



PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



VOLUME LX1V 



/.9/2 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1912-1913 




The V \m mi of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



February 8, 1913. 



I hereby certify thai printed copies of the Proceedings for 1912 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1 so April 3, 1912 



81 128 May 14,1912 



L29 152 May 23, 1912 



•' L53 L68 July 5, 1912 



•• 169 280 August, 8, 1912 



• I'M 376 September 6, 1912 



" :;77 lln September 26, 1912 



•• Ml 186 November 27, 1912 



" 487-534 January 30,1913 



•• 535 566 February 13, 1913 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE! 



Hi \kv Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



7 / v 1 




CONTENTS 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PACE 



Berry, S. Stillman. A catalogue of Japanese Cephalopoda 



(Plates V-IX) 380 



Brown, Amos P., and Henry A. Pilsbry. Note on a collection 



of fossils from Wilmington, North Carolina (Plate I) 152 

 Fauna of the Gatun Formation, Isthmus of Panama. II 

 (Plates XXII-XXVI) 500 



Bryant, Henry G. Government agencies in the advancement 

 of geographical knowledge in the United States (ab- 

 stract) 148 



Caudell, A. N., and Morgan Hebard. Fixation of the single 

 type (lectotype) specimens of species of American 

 Orthoptera. Section II. See Rehn and Hebard 157 



Celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of the 



Founding of the Academy. 129 



Colton, Harold Sellers. Lymnsea columella and self- 

 fertilization 173 



Conklin, Edwin G. Experimental studies in nuclear and 



cell division in the eggs of Crepidula (abstract)* 131 



Donaldson, Henry H. The history and zoological position of 



the albino rat (abstract)* 136 



Fowler, Henry W. Descriptions of nine new eels, with notes 



on other species 8 



Records of fishes for the Middle Atlantic States and 

 Virginia 34 



Fukuda, T. Statistical studies on variation in the wing- 

 length of a butterfly of the subfamily Satyrinse 277 



Harshberger, John W. The vegetation of the Banana 



Holes of Florida (abstract) 134 



Heath, Harold, and Ernest A. McGregor. New polyclads 



from Monterey Bay, California (Plates XII-XVIII) 455 




j v ( 0NTENTS. 



PAGE 



Holland, William J. David Alter, the first discoverer of 



spectrum analj sis (abstrad I 134 



Hoi STON, Edwin J. How the natural sciences can be made 



attractive to the young (abstract) 143 



Howe, Marshall A. Reef-building and land-forming sea- 

 weed- (abstra 137 



Jacobs, Merkel II. Physiological characters of species 



(abstract) 146 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Natural history morality 138 



M< Ai ik. \Y. L. The experimental method of testing the 

 efficiency of warning and cryptic coloration in protecting 

 animal- from their enemies 281 



Macfarlane, John M. The relation of protoplasm to its 



environment (abstract)* 147 



Mai ry, Carlotta .). A contribution to the paleontology of 



Trinidad (abstract)* 132 



Meigs, Edward B., and L. A. Ryan. The ash of smooth 



muscle (abstract) 136 



\i lson, .1. A. Structural peculiarities in an abnormal queen 



bee 3 



<>snni!\. Henry Fairfield. Tetraplasy, the law of the four 



inseparable factors of evolution (abstract)* 144 



Parker, George Howard. Sensory appropriation, as illus- 

 trated by the organs of taste in vertebrates (abstract)* 147 



Pennell, Francis. Kurt her notes on the flora of the Conowingo 



or Serpentine Barrens of southeastern Pennsylvania 520 



Pilsbry, Henry A. On the tropical element in the molluscan 



fauna of Florida (abstract ). 142 



bi.nv James A. G. The orthopteran inhabitants of the 



Sonoran creosote bush (abstract) 143 



R] n\. .1 wn;s A. (I., and Morgan Hebard. Fixation of single 



type (lectotype) specimens of species of American 



Orthoptera. Set Caudell and Hebard ■ 60 



A revision of the genera and species of the Group Mogo- 



plistii (Orthoptera: Gryllidse) found in North America 



north of the Isthmus of Panama 184 



Orthoptera found on the Florida Keys and in 

 treme southern Florida. I 235 



Shufeldt, R. W. Notes on a prehistoric race of Yucatan 



'Plate- XIX XXI) 492 




CONTENTS. V 



PAGE 



Skinner, Henry. Mimicry in butterflies (abstract)* 141 



Smith, Burnett. Observations on the structure of some coral 



beds in the Hamilton Shale (Plates X, XI) 446 



Stone, Witmer. Fauna and flora of the New Jersey Pine 



Barrens (abstract) 149 



A new Synallaxis 365 



Thompson, Will F. The protoconch of Acmsea. ... 540 



Trotter, Spencer. The faunal divisions of eastern North 



America (abstract) * 142 



True, Frederick W. A new species of Delphinodon (ab- 

 stract)* 155 



Vanatta, E. G. Phenacolepas malonei, n. sp 151 



A new species of Vertigo from Florida 445 



Wherry, Edgar T. The Triassic of Pennsylvania 156 



Apparent sun-crack structures and ringing-rock phenomena 

 in the Triassic Diabase of Eastern Pennsylvania (Plate 



II) , 169 



Silicified wood from the Triassic of Pennsylvania (Plates 



III, IV) 366 



Age and correlation of the "New Red" or Newark group 

 in Pennsylvania 373 



* These papers are published in full in the Commemorative volume of the 

 Academy's Journal (XV). 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1912. 



January 2. 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The Council reported the appointment of the following Standing 

 Committees to serve during the year: 



Finance. — John Cadwalader, Edwin S. Dixon, Charles Morris, 

 James D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 



Library.— Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 George Vaux, Jr., Henry Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley. 



Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 

 Morris, Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D., George S. Morris. 



Mr. Frank J. Keeley was appointed Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections. 



George Vaux, Jr., waS appointed the Solicitor of the Academy. 



Dr. Henry Leffmann made a communication on recent advances 

 in photography as aids in teaching natural historj-. (No abstract.) 




2 pro* eedings of the academy of [jan.,. 



January 16. 

 Henry Tu< ki.i:. M.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-four persons present. 



The deaths of the Rev. Charles A. Dickey, June 10, 1910, and of 

 Edward Potts, January 4, 1912, members, were announced. 



William L. Bailey made a beautifully illustrated communication 

 on an ornithological trip to the Magdalen Islands. (No abstract.) 



G. B. Haekel, Edwin B. Bartram, and Henry D. Pratt were 

 elected members. 



The following were elected Correspondents: 



Viktor Goldschmidt, of Heidelberg; Charles Haskins Townsend,, 

 Sc D., of New York; Carlotta J. Maury, Ph.D., of New York; 

 John ('. Brainier. Ph.D., LL.D., of Leland Stanford Jr. University. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



STRUCTURAL PECULIARITIES IN AN ABNORMAL QUEEN BEE. 

 BY J. A. NELSON, PH.D. 



In May of the present year. (1911) the Bureau of Entomology 

 received through the kindness of The A. I. Root Company, Medina. 

 Ohio, an abnormal queen bee, together with the cell from which 

 she emerged. These had been originally sent to the company by the 

 Rev. A. Francois, Parish Priest of Grand Bay, B. W. I. Father 

 Francois also sent a letter containing the following data : The queen 

 was hatched in 18 days after the colony became queenless, the cell 

 being formed on drone comb. She was very active and Father 

 Francois mistook her for a hermaphrodite, "half queen and half 

 drone." 



» 



The queen when received was alive, and appeared to be in good 

 condition. It was planned to introduce her into a colony to test 

 her fertility, but she perished by an accident before this could be 

 carried out. A careful examination of the exterior of the dead queen 

 showed nothing abnormal or unusual in the structure of the head, 

 thorax, or appendages. The abdomen, however, was of a very 

 unusual shape. Instead of the long tapering conical form charac- 

 teristic of the normal queen bee (fig. 1 D), it was in this case broadly 

 ovate, as fig. 1 A and C show. Moreover, the three terminal segments 

 were bent strongly ventrad, so that the outline of the abdomen 

 suggests that of the drone, having a blunt apex, and doubtless was 

 the cause of Father Francois' supposition that this bee was her- 

 maphroditic. A more careful examination of the abdomen disclosed 

 further abnormalities. In correlation with the unusual breadth of 

 the abdomen, the sternites of the 5th and 6th segments are much 

 broader than in the normal queen (fig. 1C). They are, moreover, 

 somewhat asymmetrical, as is also the sternite of the 4th segment, 

 although to a slighter degree. Most modified of all is the sternite 

 of the 7th segment. In the normal queen (fig. 1 D) this has approxi- 

 mately the outline of an isosceles triangle with a small notch at its 

 caudal apex. In the abnormal queen (fig. 1 C) this plate is so much 

 reduced by shortening in the longitudinal axis that it is almost com- 

 pletely covered and concealed by the sternite of the 6th segment. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



This reduction of the 7th segment in part accounts for the strong 

 downward flexure of the abdomen. In addition, the caudal notch 

 is very wide and deep, with a semicircular outline, and extends over 

 fully one-half of the posterior border of the segment, The sting is 

 also slightly abnormal, having a kink about midway of its length. 



Fig. 1. — A, B, and C, dorsal, lateral, and ventral views of abdomen of abnormal 

 queen. D, abdomen of normal queen, ventral view. X 5. 



An examination of the internal organs showed other and more 

 fundamental peculiarities. The poison glands, poison sac and 

 spermatotheca (fig. 2 A) in their size and structure display no apparent 

 abnormalities. The spermatotheca was empty, indicating that the 

 queen was a virgin. The digestive tract also seemed to be normal. 

 The sex organs, however, were strikingly modified. The left ovary 

 (fig. 2 A and B), together with its duct, was entirely wanting. The 

 right oviduct (fig. 2 B, OvD) was present, but compressed in a dorso- 

 ventral direction, and bent in the sagittal plane into a sigmoid curve. 




1912.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



AG1D 



Attached to its upper end was a fusiform opaque whitish mass (Ov) 

 1.8 mm. in length, apparently representing a single egg tube, and 

 seemingly containing only a single egg. 



As fig. 2 A and B show, the 

 external openings of the poison 

 apparatus on the one hand 

 and the spermatotheca and 

 vagina on the other are very 

 close together. In the normal 

 queen this is not the case 

 since they are separated by a 

 considerable interval, which is 

 taken up by the dorsal wall 

 of the bursa copulatrix. It is 

 evident, therefore,, in the case 

 under consideration, that the 

 bursa is very much shortened 

 'in an antero-posterior direc- 

 tion, in correlation with the 

 shortening of the sternite of 

 the 7th abdominal segment. 



The cause of the abnor- 

 malities recorded here is 

 entirely unknown. The cell 

 from which this queen emerged 

 was to all appearances en- 

 tirely normal. Moreover, these 

 abnormalities cannot be re- 

 lated to the sexual char- 

 acters of the drone or the 

 worker, except in so far as 

 the reduction of the ovaries 



OvD 



SpmGID 



BG1 



PsnScD 



Fig. 2. — A, poison apparatus and sex or- 

 gans of abnormal queen from dorsal 

 side. X 1\. B, ovary and oviduct of 

 abnormal queen. X 10. AG1D, duct 

 of acid gland. BG1, alkaline gland. 

 Ov, ovary. OvD, oviduct. PsnSc, 

 poison sac. PsnScD, duct of same. 

 Spm, spermatotheca. SpmGID, duct 

 of same. 



is peculiar to the worker, but in the latter case they are symmetrical. 

 The queen is not in any way hermaphroditic, but merely abnormal 

 in the reduction of certain parts of the abdominal wall and viscera. 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



February 6. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown in the Chair. 



Thirteen persons preseitt. 



The Publication Committee reported as follows: 



An "Index to the scientific contents of the Journal and Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy" and a "History of the Academy" by the 

 Recording Secretary had been accepted by the Centenary Sub- 

 Committee on Printing and Publication to be issued in connection 

 with the celebration of the One Hundredth Birthday of the society. 



The following papers had been accepted as contributions to the 

 ( Centenary Commemorative volume (the fifteenth of the quarto 

 Journal) : 



"Human Spermatogenesis: Spermatocytes and Spermatogenesis," 

 by Thomas H. Montgomery Ph.D. (Received November 28, 1911.) 



"Early Adaptation in Feeding Habits of Starfishes," bv John M. 

 Clarke, A.M., LL.D., Ph.D. (Received December 16, 1911.) 



"A Contribution to the Paleontology of Trinidad," by Carlotta 

 J. Maury, Ph.D. (Received December 27, 1911.) 



The following had been accepted for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings: 



"Structural Peculiarities in an Abnormal Queen Bee," by J. A. 

 Nelson, Ph.D. (December 21, 1911.) 



"Description of nine new Eels, with notes on other species," by 

 Henry W. Fowler. (January 24, 1912.) 



"Record of Fishes from the Middle Atlantic Coast and Virginia," 

 by Henry W. Fowler. (January 24, 1912.) 



The meeting was held in association with the Botanical Section. 



Mr. Benjamin H. Smith made a communication on recent species 

 of Cretsegus. (No abstract.) 



John H. Harshberger, Ph.D., spoke of the physiography and 

 vegetation of the Florida Everglades. (No abstract.) 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



February 20. 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., in the Chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A resolution was adopted conveying a vote of thanks to Charles 

 Marquedent Burns for an oil portrait of the Recording Secretary 

 presented at the last meeting. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled " Fixation of Single Type (Lectotype) Specimens of 

 species of North American Orthoptera (Section One)," by James 

 A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (February 9) in the Proceedings. 



The following had been accepted for publication in the Centenary 

 Volume : 



"Description of a new Fossil Porpoise of the genus Delphinodon 

 from the Miocene Formation of Maryland." By Frederick W. True. 

 (February 10.) 



"Mimicry in Boreal American Rhopalocera." By Henry Skinner, 

 M.D., Sc.D. (February 15.) 



"The Petrographic Province of Neponset, Massachusetts," by 

 Florence Bascom. (February 20.) 



Prof. Ulric Dahlgren made a communication, beautifully illus- 

 trated, on the production of light by animals. (No abstract.) 

 The subject was discussed by Dr. Edward Anthony Spitzka. 



Frederick Ehrenfeld and Francis B. Bracken were elected members. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NINE NEW EELS, WITH NOTES ON OTHER SPECIES. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



All the material treated in this paper is contained in the collection 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



ALEBIDJE. 

 Alebes rufus (Macleay). 



Two from Victoria, Australia. 



MONOPTERIDiE. 

 Monopterus albus (Zuiew). 



Five from Batu Sangkar and seven from Padang, Sumatra. Of 

 the latter three are now in Stanford University. 



SYNBRANCHIDJE. 

 Synbranchus marmoratus Bloch. 



Eleven examples from Peru, Pebas, Ambyiacu River, Surinam, 

 Rio Grande do Sul, and Sao Joao to Rio Negro and Chapada in 

 Brazil. 



ANGUILLIDiE. 

 Anguilla anguilla (Linnanis). 



Sweden; Lake Lucerne, Switzerland; Munich, Germany; Italy 

 (Bonaparte 398, 399, 400), Arno River. Twenty-four examples. 



Anguilla japonica Schlegel. 



Yodo River, Wakanoura, Matsushima and Kurume, Japan. 

 Twenty-two examples. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafmesque. 



Boston, Nantucket, Wood's Holl, Massachusetts; Noank, Con- 

 necticut; Long Island, New York; lower James River, Virginia; 

 mouth of Kentucky River; Miami and Bayport, Florida; San Diego, 

 Texas; Santo Domingo and St. Martins, West Indies. Besides 

 many examples representing these localities, I have listed multitudes 

 elsewhere from the Middle States region. 



Anguilla mauritiana Bennett. 



One from Padang, Sumatra; two from Samoa; two from Philip- 

 pine Islands. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Anguilla tricolor McClelland. 



One from Padang and two from Batu Sangkar, Sumatra. One 

 of last now in Stanford University. 

 Anguilla australis Richardson. 



One from Victoria, Australia. 



SIMENOHELYIDJE. 



Simenchelys parasiticus Goode and Bean. 



One from N. Lat. 42° 37' W. Long. 66° 55' in 200 fathoms. 



SYNAPHOBRANCHID^l. 

 Synaphobranchus pinnatus (Gray). 



One from N. Lat. 44° W. Long. 58° 30' in 160 fathoms. 



LEPTOCEPHALIDiE. 

 Leptocephalus conger (Linnaeus). 



Atlantic City, Ocean City, Beesley's Point and Corson's Inlet, 

 Xew Jersey; Italy. Seventeen examples. 



Leptocephalus marginatus (Valenciennes). 



Two from Christmas Island (W. H. Jones) and two from Hawaii 

 (J, K. Townsend?), in Pacific Ocean. 



Leptocephalus myriaster (Brevoort). 



One from Hiroshima and eight from Tokyo, Japan. 



Leptocephalus nystromi Jordan and Snyder. 



Two from Nagasaki, Japan. 



MICROCONGER subgen. nov. 

 Type Leptocephalus caudalis sp. nov. 



Differs from the subgenus Leptocephalus in the well-developed 

 caudal fin. 



(Mj/cpds, small ; Koyypo? or l'»yyp n< >, the ancient name of Leptocephalus.) 



Loptocephalus caudalis sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 7k; depth 21^; head width 3£ its length ; snout 4; eye 6^; 

 maxillary 2f ; mouth cleft 2|; interorbital 9; pectoral 3|; head 1| 

 to dorsal origin; head 2| to anal origin. 



Body long, rather well compressed, especially behind, and tail 

 tapering long and slender. 



Head long, greatest width about equals its greatest depth, profiles 

 nearly alike. Snout long, not especially cavernous, surface convex, 

 upper profile nearly straight, basal width about equals its length, 

 and tip slightly protruding beyond mandible end. Eye ellipsoid, 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



rather large, close to upper profile, without eyelid, centre a little 

 before first third in head. Mouth rather large, wide, rictus extending 

 back behind pupil centre, though not quite opposite hind eye 

 edge. Maxillary extends back trifle behind hind eye edge. Lips 

 rather fleshy, broad laterally. Jaws strong. Teeth largely uniserial, 

 uniform in size, conic, sharp-pointed, close-set and slightly inclined 

 back along edges of jaws. In upper jaw front patch of slightly 

 larger premaxillary teeth, these conic, sharp-pointed, and form 

 continuous area back on front of vomer. Vomerine teeth similar to 

 premaxillary teeth, in somewhat triangular area with apex directed 

 back or towards pharynx, and teeth rather sparse behind. No other 

 teeth on mouth roof. Teeth in mandible not continuous across 

 symphysis, and an outer and inner series of small similar teeth on 

 anterior portion of each ramus. Tongue smooth, elongate, rather 

 narrowly triangular, and free in front. Mandible strong, shallow, 



Fig. 1. — Leptocephalus caudalis Fowler. Typo. 



with low rami. Front nostril in short fleshy tube near snout tip. 

 Hind nostril simple pore close before front rim of eye. Interorbital 

 narrowly constricted bony ridge, surface convex. 



Gill-opening begins opposite supero-median pectoral ray bases, 

 curves slightly forward in crescent, about If in eye. Pharynx but 

 little swollen. 



Skin smooth. A pair of pores on upper lip at snout tip between 

 nasal tubes, and immediately behind though more widely separated 

 at point about first fourth in snout length another pair. Still 

 closer than either of these pairs a third pair of inconspicuous pores 

 on snout superiorly placed about first third in its length. A series 

 of 6 pores from close after nasal tube till below lower front eye edge. 

 Row of 9 pores on lower side of head beginning close behind man- 

 dibular symphysis, and last one just below opercle front on branchi- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



ostegal region. Vertical series of 3 small pores behind eye short space 

 on side of head. L. 1. complete, a little high at first, then midway 

 along tail side, and extending short space on tail. From above 

 pectoral origin about 112 pores in 1. 1., of which 30 before vent. 

 L. 1. with about 7 pores before pectoral base, where continued on 

 head side till its origin above opercle front. 



Dorsal, anal, and caudal continuous, first with origin about midway 

 in depressed pectoral length. Dorsal and anal moderately high, 

 radii fine. Caudal large, length 1| in head, with numerous fine 

 radii, contour elongate and sharply pointed behind, median rays 

 longest. Pectoral small, elongate, inserted about midway in depth, 

 radii fine, and fin rather pointed behind. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull or uniform russet-brown, lower 

 surface of head and abdomen slightly paler. Snout tip deep brown. 

 Iris slaty. Fins all plain pale brown. Edges of vertical fins narrowly 

 dusky, becoming nearly blackish posteriorly. Lips and gill-opening 

 pale. 



Length 6f inches. 



Type No. 1,055, A. N. S. P. Off Lower California. Dr. W. H. 

 Jones. 



Only the type known, and apparently distinguished from all other 

 species of the genus by its large caudal fin. 



(Cauda, tail; with reference to the large caudal fin). 



Congrellus balearicus (De la Roche). 



Four from Italy. 



Congrellus anago (Schlegel). 



Congrellus meeki Jordan and Snyder, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXIII, 1901, 

 p. 347, PL 11. Bay of Tokyo, Japan. 



Three from.Tokyo, Japan. One of these is typical of Congrellus 

 meeki. Two others from Wakanoura. Japan. 



Congrellus bowersi (Jenkins). 



One from Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands. 



Bathycongrus mystax(De la Roche). 



One from the Mediterranean. 



Atopichthys nuttalli sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 12|; depth 12J; head width 2| in its length; head depth 

 at occiput 2; snout 5J; eye 2>\; maxillary 2h; interorbital 3|; 

 muscular segments about 17 + 143?. 



Body oblong, greatly compressed, sides flattened, and only taper- 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



ing at head and end of tail so that long median area of similar great 

 depth. Tail tapering rather suddenly, more acuminate than head. 

 Head widest part of body, little deeper than wide, profiles similar. 

 Snout conic, width about f its length and latter slightly projects 

 beyond mandible. Eye large, impinging on upper profile, at first 

 third in head, slightly ellipsoid. Mouth large, little oblique, nearly 



Fig. 2. — Atopichthijs nuttalli Fowler. Type. 



straight in commissure, and latter reaches about hind pupil edge. 

 Teeth deciduous? (if present), as jaws at present entirely edentulous. 

 Tongue far back, little developed. Mandible shallow, rami low, 

 as seen from below rather attenuated. Nostrils small, well separated, 

 similar, anterior near snout end and posterior close before eye. 

 Interorbital moderately convex. 



Gill-opening about f in eye, inferior, nearly vertical or but slightly 

 inclined forward, and begins above nearly opposite and close before 

 pectoral origin. 



Body naked, smooth, myomeres distinct. 



Vertical fins low, continuous around caudal, latter very small, 

 short and scarcely developed or less than | in eye. Dorsal begins 

 behind head a space about equal to eye and postocular region of 

 head. Anal begins about first § in total length. Pectoral well 

 developed, rather high. Vent not distinct, apparently close before 

 anal. 



Color in alcohol uniform pale brownish, and no dark chromato- 

 phores "evident now, if ever present in life. 



Length 5\1- inches (146 mm.). 



Type No. 1,042, A. N. S. P. Hawaiian Islands. Thomas Nuttall. 



Only the type known. This is evidently a young apodal fish, 

 possibly of Leptocephalus or some allied genus. I have not been 

 able to locate it among any of the numerous forms described, as it 

 differs in the combination of characters expressed in the above 

 description. 



(Named for Thomas Nuttall, from whom it was obtained many 

 years ago.) 



MTJR^ENESOCIDiE. 

 Muraenesox savanna (Cuvier). 



An example 40 inches long from Santo Domingo, West Indies. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



Also a dried skin without data, though likely from the Mediterranean? 

 (Bonaparte?). These examples show onl} r such minor discrepancies 

 as may be attributed to age, individual variation, or their preparation 

 as specimens. 



EOHELID^B. 

 Echelus myrus (Linnaeus). 



Two large examples from the Mediterranean. One contained the 

 remains of a squill. 



Myrophis vafer Jordan and Gilbert. 



Two from Panama (McNiel). 

 Chilorhinus suensonii Lutken. 



Three from Santa Cruz, West Indies. 



Muraenichthys devisi Fowler. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 421, fig. 2. Victoria, Australia. 

 No. 33,120, A. N. S. P., type. 



Muraenichthys ogilbyi Fowler. 



L. c, p. 423, fig. 3, Victoria, Australia. 

 No. 33,121, A. N. S. P., type. 



OPHICHTHYID^. 

 Dalophis coecus (Linnseus). 



One from the Mediterranean. 



Holopterura plumbea Cope. 



Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIV, 1871, p. 482. West Africa. 

 No. 22,964, A. N. S. P., type. 



Leiuranus semicinctus (Lay and Bennett). 



Two from Hawaii. 



Chlevastes elaps sp. now Fig. 3. 



Head 17^; depth at vent 65|; D. about 557 + 25; A. about 263; 

 head width 3| its length; head depth 2f; snout 5f; mouth 3§; 

 interorbital 7£; eye 2\ in snout; gill-opening If; head 8| to vent; 

 about 8 pores in 1. 1. before gill-opening, and 160 more to end of tail, 

 of which 78 between gill-opening and vent. 



Body extremely elongate, subcylindrical or but moderately com- 

 pressed with convex sides, and long tail only appreciably tapering 

 near end. 



Head small, rather compressed, with swollen pharynx, and upper 

 profile much more evenly convex than lower. Snout convex over 

 surface and in profile tip firm, basal width It its length. Eye small 




14 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



ellipsoid, without eyelid or skin of head extending over entirely, 

 centre about first f in head. Mouth small, commissure but slightly 

 curved, rictus extends well behind eye. Lips rather broad, especially 

 upper, fleshy, entire. Teeth all molar-like or rounded, upper 

 lateral series distinct from vomerine or premaxillary, rather irregu- 

 larly uniserial, begins about midway in snout length and continues 

 back till opposite hind eye edge. Premaxillary and vomerine teeth 

 continuous, former a little large and exposed below in front of closed 

 mandible tip, and latter like lateral upper jaw teeth, though con- 

 tinued a little further posteriorly. Mandibular teeth irregularly 

 biserial, anterior a little enlarged, not continuous across symphysis, 

 and extend well back towards rictus. Tongue not evident. Man- 



m a 



Fig. 3. — Chlevastes daps Fowler. Type. 



dible strong, shallow, symphysis obtuse. Anterior nostril in fleshy 

 tube, before mandible tip, on upper lip. Posterior nostril large 

 pore, with outer cutaneous edge opening downward below lower 

 eye front. Interorbital evenly convex. 



Gill-opening small, inferior, inclined back moderately. 



Skin rather thin, smooth. Head with number of fine longitudinal 

 wrinkles, though these mostly on pharynx. Some pores on mandible 

 and lower side of head, these inconspicuous. 



Dorsal origin nearer snout tip than gill-opening by space equal 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



to If eye-diameters, fin begins high at origin, and remains so till well 

 posterior, when but little lower. Dorsal ends about 1^ head-lengths 

 from tail tip, after which a smaller low dorsal still posterior, this, 

 however, only extending back about half way to tail tip. Anal 

 little lower than dorsal, moderately developed, and posteriorly ends 

 before end of dorsal. Tail end compressed, pointed, tip rather 

 slender and flexible. Pectoral small, base broad, short, length about 

 half basal width. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely pale or very dull brownish generally. 

 Broad brownish transverse band over interorbital and down along 

 each side of mandible, not continued below. Second head band 

 about midway in head length, wider above than below. Third 

 brown band of normal and regulation pattern, includes gill-opening, 

 and continued below. This followed by 10 more on trunk and 

 12 on tail after vent, very few incomplete below. Alternating with 

 bands 1 to 5 spots or blotches of dark brown in pale interspaces. 

 Where close to vertical fins both spots and transverse bands con- 

 tinued on them. All dark blotches and bands with decidedly darker 

 brown edges than their general color, line of demarcation between 

 them slight, though greatly contrasting with pale color. Iris pale 

 gray to slaty. 



Length 27f inches. 



Type No. 1,001, A. N. S. P. Philippine Islands. 



This form approaches Chlevastes oculatus (Bleeker), 1 which has 

 the narrow dark transverse bands 3, or more than 3, times narrower 

 than the spotted or blotched interspaces. 



Murcena colubrina Boddaert 2 shows 30 dark complete rings, the 

 first including snout tip, second includes eye, and third would 

 apparently include gill-opening, which is not satisfactorily indicated. 



Murcena annulata Ahl 3 and M. fasa'ata Ahl 4 are two species the 

 original accounts of which I have been unable to consult. 



For Opkisurus altemans Quoy and Gaimard 5 figure an example 

 with 31 dark and mostly complete rings, though only a few spots 

 in a few of the interspaces. Their figure also indicates the dorsal 

 origin over the gill-opening. Ophichthys naja De Vis 6 is said to 



1 Ophisurus fasciatus var. oculata Bleeker, Atlas Ich., IV, 1864, p. 64. East 

 Indies. 



- Neu. Nord. Beytr., II, 1781, p. 56, PL 2, fig. 2. Amboyna. 



3 Mur. Oph. Thunb., 1789, p, 8, PI. 1, fig. 1. East Indies. 



4 L. c, p. 9. East Indies. 



5 Voy. Uranie, Zool, 1824, p. 243, PI. 45, fig. 2. Guam. 



6 Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, 1883 (1884), p. 455. South Sea Islands. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



have 27 dark rings, and some of the pale interspaces with a large 

 oval spot. Its teeth are also said to be flat tubercular molars. 

 (Elaps, a genus of serpents, some of which have a similar color- 

 pattern.) 



Cirrhimuraena chinensis Kaup. 



Two from Padang, Sumatra. One of these is now in Stanford 

 University. 



Microdonophis erabo Jordan and Snyder. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXIII, 1901, p. S70, fig. 17. Misaki, Japan. 

 No. 26,224, A. N. S. P., paratype. 



Myrichthys oculatus (Kaup). 



One from St. Martins, West Indies. 



Myrichthys magnificus (Abbott). 



Pisoodonophis magnified Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 476. 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



No. 1,013, A. N. S. P., type of P. magnified, Abbott. Also paratype 

 No. 1,014, same data. The former is 27 inches long, though in the 

 original description it is given as 19 inches. 



Gunther has recently 7 merged Ophisurus ophis (which he says is 

 not Murcena ophis Bloch) Lacepede, M. tigrina Ruppell, M. maculosa 

 Cuvier and Ophichthys stypurus R. Smith and Swain, in the synonymy 

 of this species. However, Jordan and Davis long ago 8 pointed out 

 that Ophisurus ophis Lacepede is evidently after "Bloch, as is shown 

 by the enumeration of fin rays" and allow it, together with Murcena 

 ophis Linnaeus, as questionable synonyms of Ophichthus havannensis 

 (Schneider) . 



Murcena maculosa Cuvier is based on Lacepede's Ophisurus ophis, 

 which in turn is also based on M. ophis Bloch from Surinam?. Now 

 Ophisurus guttatus Cuvier is based directly on M. ophis Bloch, so 

 both of Cuvier's names are more likely synonyms of the American 

 0. havannensis (Schneider). 



Murcena tigrina Rtippell 9 is figured as showing the dorsal origin 

 over the gill-opening, and the same is also stated in the text. The 

 dark spots are indicated on the figure as quite large and regular, 

 especially on the anal and belly. The eye is shown a little anterior 

 in the mouth cleft. Ruppell also says "der nicht sonderlich ge- 

 spaltene Mund und der Gaumen mit mehreren Reihen Hakenzahne 



" Journ. Mus. Godeffroy (F. Siidsee), XVII, 1910, p. 401. 



8 Rep. U. S. F. Com., XVI, 18S8 (1892), p. 629. 



9 Atlas. Reis. N. Af., Zool., 1S28, p. 118, PI. 30, fig. 2. Mohila, Red Sea. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



besetzt." It would seem from this that his fish is not even a Myrich- 

 thys. 



Myrichthys stypurus (Smith and Swain) 10 may be identical with 

 the present species, but several minor differences may at least be 

 detected, such as its hind pectoral edge being lunate, dorsal and 

 anal fins persisting almost to the tail tip where quite high, and the 

 disposition of the spots. 



For these reasons I decline to follow Glinther. 



OphichthllS rufus (Rafinesque). 



Four frcm Italy. 



Jordan and Davis state that the "description of Echelus rufus 

 fits this species better [than Echelus polyrinus Rafinesque 12 ], but the 

 figure not at all." This is not true of my examples. Rafinesque's 

 figure, though crude, is largely identifiable with the present species. 

 The position of the dorsal and anal origins are correctly indicated, 

 as well as the pectoral, though the snout is a little more pointed. 

 In any case I feel obliged to adopt it, also because Bonaparte long 

 ago used it in his MSS. Ophisurus hispanus Bellotti 13 will then be a 

 synonym. I may further note that Jordan and Davis give 14 the 

 vomerine teeth as biserial, though in my examples they are all 

 uniserial. Moreau's rough figure of 0. hispanus 15 agrees with my 

 material. 



Ophichthus triserialis (Kaup). 



Herpetoichthys callisoma Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 475. 

 Pacific Ocean. 



No. 38,148, A. N. S. P., type of H. callisoma Abbott. 



Ophichthus stenopterus (Cope). 



Ophichthys stenopterus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila,, (2) XIV, 

 1871, p. 482. Japan. 



No. 1,043, A. N. S. P., type of 0. stenopterus Cope. No. 1,044, 



same data, paratype. 



Ophichthus uniserialis (Cope). 



Ophichthys uniserialis Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XVII, 

 1877, p. 31. Pecasmayo Bay, Peru. 



No. 21,152, A. N. S. P., type of 0. uniserialis Cope. 



10 Ophichthys stypurus R. Smith and Swain, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., V, 1882, 

 p. 120. Johnston I. 



11 Rafinesque, Car. Nuov. An. Sicil, 1810, p. 65, PI. 16, fig. 2. Palermo. 



12 Rafinesque, Ind. It. Sicil, 1810, p. 69. Palermo. 



13 Accad. Fisic. Med. Statist. Milano, Sed. 23 dicembr. 1857. 



14 Ophichthus hispanus Jordan and Davis, Rep. U. S. F. Com., XVI, 1888 

 (1S92), pp. 624, 628. Palermo. 



^Hist. Nat. Poiss. France, III, 1881, p. 584, fig. 212. Cannes, Nice. 

 2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Ophichthus ocellatus (Le Sueur). 



One from Catolera, South America. 



Ophisurus serpens Lacepede. 



One from Italy. 



MUR^JNID^. 



Enchelycore nigrocastaneus (Cope). 



Gymnothorax nigrocastaneus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2)' 

 XIV, 1871, p. 483. St. Martins, West Indies. 



No. 16,032, A. N. S. P., type of G. nigrocastaneus Cope. Cope 

 says "dorsal fin commencing above a point three lengths of the gape 

 behind the end of the muzzle," which is not true of his type. The 

 latter shows the gape 2§ to dorsal origin. The account, by Jordan 

 and Davis, of E. nigricans 16 varies somewhat from my example, as 

 they give the gape 2 in the head, mine showing clearly 2\. These 

 writers also evidently had the type of G. umbrosus Poey for com- 

 parison, and while they state in their description that the tail is 

 slightly longer than the rest of the body, Poey states that it is shorter. 

 Poey's figure shows the jaws equal, the gape half way to the gill- 

 opening, dorsal origin over gill-opening, and coloration marbled. 

 Further, the specific name notes the animal as black, Giinther giving 

 the coloration as uniform black. 17 It would appear likely Cope's 

 species has not been demonstrated as identical with E. nigricans. 



Muraena helena Linmeus. 



Three from Italy. 



Muraena clepsydra Jordan and .Evermr nn. 



One from Panama (Ruschenberger). Also five others without 

 locality, though likely from the same place?. 



Muraena myrialeucostictus sp. now Fig. 4. 



Head 1\; depth 16|; head width 4| its length; head depth 2\\ 

 snout 6|; eye 9§; mouth 2§; interorbital 11; head Z\ to vent. 



Body long, rather deep, well compressed with surfaces of sides 

 moderately or slightly convex, and rather deep tail tapering a little 

 only at end rather suddenly. 



Head compressed, a little swollen behind and at occipital region 

 just behind eyes so that upper profile at that point rather deeply 

 concave, sides rather flattened and scarcely constricted below. 

 Snout with profile and surface rather evenly convex, somewhat 

 conic in general form, basal width \\ its length. Eye a little ellip- 



16 .Rep. U. S. F. Com., XVI, 1888 (1892), p. 588. Barbadoes, no loc., Cuba. 



17 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., VIII, 1870, p. 135. Dominica, Grenada, Barbadoes. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



19 



soid, about midway in mouth length, without eyelid. Mouth rather 

 large, nearly horizontal and not completely closing. Lips tough, 

 rather thin, smooth. Teeth all conic and sharply pointed, mostly 

 inclined a little back, and edges entire. Upper teeth in complete 

 uniserial outer row, this extending entirely around jaw, all erect, 

 anterior to eye more strongly convex and robust than behind eye, 

 where more inclined back and somewhat compressed. Anterior 

 to eye in upper outer series several teeth a little enlarged or slightly 

 canine-like, one also at upper jaw tip. In front of upper jaw before 

 eye, and inside erect outer teeth, about 3 series of 7 enlarged and 

 more or less depressible conic canines. These arranged as 2 outer 

 series approximating in front, with each containing 3 teeth, and a 

 median posterior one, latter largest of all teeth in mouth and entirely 

 depressible back. Beginning below eye front inside outer erect 



Fig. 4. — Murcena myrialeucostictus Fowler. Type. 



teeth series of 6 rather slender and larger depressible palatine teeth 

 each side of vomer. Latter with irregular biserial row of short conic 

 strong teeth, smaller than upper lateral teeth. Mandibular teeth 

 mostly uniserial, like upper outer erect teeth. Anteriorly in mandi- 

 ble about 3 pairs of sub-depressible conic and slightly enlarged 

 teeth, first pair begins close behind or at symphysis. No tongue. 

 Mandible shallow, curved, surface convex, tip equal in front with 

 snout tip, rami low, and profile a little more inclined than that of 

 snout. Front nostril in short tube above front eye edge in inter- 

 orbital space. Latter evenly convex. 



Gill-opening little below median axis of body, nearly horizontal, 

 length a little more than eye. Pharynx well swollen, and with few 

 obsolete shallow grooves. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Skin smooth, tough. Four pores on each upper lip, first close 

 behind nasal tube, second midway in snout, third below front eye 

 edge and fourth below hind eye edge. Pair of pores at snout tip, 

 another pair between nasal tubes and third pair about midway in 

 snout length above. Mandible pores inconspicuous, apparently 4? 

 on each ramus. L. 1. not evident. 



Dorsal origin about midway between front eye edge and gill- 

 opening, fin high and continuous with small caudal. Length of 

 rounded caudal If in eye. Anal similar, though lower than dorsal. 

 Vent. close before anal. 



Color in alcohol deep chocolate-brown, head, body, and fins marked 

 everywhere with minute pointed dots, very numerous, of much paler 

 tint than general color and all rather distinctly defined. Towards 

 end of tail and on caudal fin dots become whitish and a little larger. 

 Inside mouth color very pale brownish. Angle of mouth brownish, 

 though not darker than general coloration. Iris pale slaty, with 

 narrow pale circle around pupil. Gill-opening edged with blackish. 

 Edges of fin similar to general color, and also with similar dots. 



Length 16| inches. 



Type No. 16,031, A. N. S. P. St. Martins, West Indies. Dr. 

 R. E. Van Rijgersma. 



Only the type, described above, is known. It differs from the 

 related Murcena melanotis, as described by Jordan and Davis from 

 South American examples, in the profusely dotted coloration, the 

 absence of both pale and dark mandibular blotches near the rictus, 

 and in having the mouth not completely closing. From Murcena 

 augusti (Kaup) it differs in the partly biserial uniform vomerine 

 teeth and the body being entirely dotted minutely with whitish. 



(Muptas } myriad; hu-/M } white; <rTixTds } spotted.) 



Eabula panamensis (Steindachner). 



A single example without data, evidently from Panama?. 



Evenchelys macrurus (Bleeker). 



One from Padang, Sumatra. 



I may here mention Murcena thyrsoidea Richardson is the type 

 of Thyrsoidea Kaup by tautonomy, and thus Bleeker's restriction 

 of T. longissima Kaup as the type is invalid. Evenchelys Jordan 

 and Evermann has priority over Rhabdura, recently proposed by 

 Ogilby. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Gymnothorax aquae-dulcis (Cope). 



Murcena aquw-dulcis Cope, Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Hayden, 1871 (1872), 

 p. 474. Rio Grande, near £fan Jose, -Costa Rica. 



No. 14,925, A. N. S. P., type of Murcena aquce-dulcis Cope. 18 

 I may here state that the dorsal origin begins well before the gill- 

 opening (Cope's statement to the contrary evidently erroneous in 

 locating the exact origin of the fin), or near last two-fifths in space 

 between latter and hind eye edge. 



Gymnothorax eurostus (Abbott). 



Thyrsoidea eurosla Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 478. 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



No. 984, A. N. S. P., type of T. eurosta Abbott. This species 

 appears distinct from G. meleagris (Shaw), with which Gunther has 

 united it. The vomerine teeth are partly biserial and short or 

 bluntly convex, nearly molar-like. 



Gymnothorax laysanus (Steindachner). 



Lycodontis parcibranchialis Fowler, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, 

 p. 494, PL 18, fig. 1. Hawaiian Islands. 



No. 16,483, A. N. S. P., type of L. parvibranchialis Fowler. 



Two without data (probably from Hawaii?) evidently this species. 



Gymnothorax stellatus (Lacepede). 



Three from Padang, Sumatra, of which one is now in Stanford 

 University. One also from Apia, Samoa. 



Gymnothorax undulatus (Lacepede). 



Two from the Hawaiian Islands. One of these (from J. K. Town- 

 send) I wrongly identified with Murcena pseudothyrsoidea Bleeker. 



Gymnothorax kaupii (Abbott). 



Thyrsoidea kaupii Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 477. 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



No. 916, A. N. S. P., type of T. kaupii Abbott. I also confused 

 an example from the Hawaiian Islands (W. H. Jones) with M. 

 pseudothyrsoidea Bleeker. 



This species seems to differ from G. stellatus in the presence of 



18 I may note that Jordan and Davis identify an eel from San Diego, Cab, 

 with Cope's species, and as they do not explicitly designate Cope'« fish the 

 former must be taken as the type of their genus Rabula. Therefore, the Gymno- 

 thorax aquw-dulcis (nee Murcena aquw-dulcis Cope) Jordan and Davis requires 

 a new specific name. 



Rabula davisi nom. nov. 



Gymnothorax aquw-dulcis (nee Cope) Jordan and Davis, Rep. U. S. F. Com., 

 XVI, 1888 (1892), p. 598. 



(Named for Mr. B. M. Davis, joint author with Dr. D. S. Jordan, in the 

 review of the Apodal Fishes of America and Europe.) 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



three enlarged depressible canine teeth below the eye, as seen in the 

 inner series in the upper jaw. 

 Gymnothorax flavimarginatus (Ruppell). 



Three from Padang, Sumatra. Of these one now in Stanford 

 University. They all agree with Ruppell's description to some 

 extent. They differ from his figure in having only pale or dull- 

 edged fins posteriorly. The figures by Bleeker have sharp-pointed 

 teeth and may be different. Ruppell says, of M. flavimarginata, 

 that it is very large, both jaws have a row of strong wedge-shaped 

 teeth and the throat equally with similar teeth. The palatine teeth 

 are said to be four long curved depressible teeth each side. 



Gymnothorax batuensis (Bleeker). 



One from Apia, Samoa. Apparently not identical with Murcena 

 flavimarginata Ruppell, as thought by Jordan and Seale. 



Gymnothorax kidako (Schlegel). 



One from Tokyo, Japan. 



Gymnothorax moringua (Cuvier). 



Two from Bermuda Islands; one from New Providence, Bahamas; 

 one from St. Kitt's, West Indies; one from St. Thomas, West Indies; 

 three from St. Martins, West Indies. 

 Gymnothorax funebris Ranzani. 



One from Santo Domingo, West Indies. Another without data. 



Gymnothorax concolor (Abbott). 



Thyrsoidea concolor Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 479. 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. 



No. 970, A. N. S. P., type of T. concolor Abbott. I have allowed 

 this as a distinct form, Abbott's name having priority over Murcena 

 erebus Poey, 19 which is said to have uniserial vomerine teeth. M . 

 infernalis Poey 20 is said to have biserial vomerine teeth and also be 

 identical with G. funebris Ranzani, though the latter does not de- 

 scribe the vomerine teeth. Jordan and Davis remark "there is 

 no doubt of the identity of funebris, concolor, castanea and infernalis," 

 though later Jordan and Evermann suggest castanea as probably 

 distinct. 



Gymnothorax unicolor (De la Roche). 



One from Italy. 



Gymnothorax carcinognathus sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 7f ; depth at vent 6*; head width 3| in its length; head 



19 Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, II, June, 1861, p. 426. Cuba. 



20 L. c, II, June, 1860, pp. 347, 354. Cuba. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



depth 2; snout 4§; eye 8J; mouth 2\; interorbital 11; head 3f 

 to vent. 



Body long, slender, well compressed, sides but slightly convex 

 and tapering in long slender tail after vent. 



Head well compressed, little swollen behind, sides a little approxi- 

 mated below, and profiles similarly inclined in front to form long 

 conic slender muzzle. Snout conic, surface and profile convex, 

 basal width half its length. Eye a little ellipsoid, about midway in 

 mouth length, without eyelid. Mouth large, jaws curved like 

 forceps and exposing most of dentition, thus not closing completely, 





:* $?-. **y-~*.i.-i--fi 



**£?&?5*.> \ ■''■■& -.''■'' ". ■5-'i'^^" A *'"^'^'^'iV^ a "VV'?'^*' '"v^i .** ' 4.:^'\'- f ^V ^''AvV/'' "iO^V''ii'^^\\ 



Fig. 5. — Gymnothorax carcinognathns Fowler. Type. 



or with only their tips approximated. Lips rather thin, lower 

 scarcely developed posteriorly on sides. Teeth conic, greatly 

 acuminate, edges entire, and with slender sh*arp tips. An upper 

 outer series of erect conic teeth, these with a distinctly smaller or 

 shorter number most all their extent, all very slightly inclined back, 

 though after eye more so. Before eye, in upper outer series of teeth 

 3 pairs of erect enlarged conic canines, alternating with 2 pairs of 

 depressible conic canines, latter bend inwards. A depressible though 

 shorter conic canine bends back towards vomer between first pair 

 of anterior upper erect canines. This followed by 3 very long- 

 slender and slightly curved depressible canines, graduated from 

 anterior to last in length, which longest of all teeth or but slightly 

 less than horizontal eye-diameter. Below eye in outer upper series 

 of erect teeth 2 canines, a little larger than most of teeth in their 

 series, though not so large as anterior canines. Below front rim and 

 close to 2 erect canines below eye, though directly inside, one or two 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



canines each side of palatine area, depressible towards vomer and 

 conic. Vomerine teeth regularly uniserial, begins about opposite 

 front pupil rim, first few a little larger than others which graduate 

 much smaller behind, all conic and sharp pointed, also a little inclined 

 posteriorly. Mandibular teeth uniserial, conic, rather compressed, 

 inclined well posteriorly, mostly equal in size except in front, and all 

 rather smaller than upper lateral teeth. On left symphyseal portion 

 of mandibular ramus 2 enlarged erect and slightly curved conic 

 canines, and on right symphyseal ramus same number. Between 

 all these erect teeth a similar depressible canine, as one at symphysis, 

 one between each erect pair, and a second on right ramus after 

 second erect one. No tongue. Mandible slender, slightly curved, 

 and a trifle shorter than snout tip, shallow, and surface convex. 

 Front nostrils each in rather slender cutaneous tube each side of 

 snout tip, and each about half of horizontal eye-diameter. Hind 

 nostril simple pore above eye front in interorbital space. Latter 

 depressed medianly, slightly convex. 



Gill-opening a little below median axis, nearly horizontal and 

 about equals eye. Pharynx rather swollen and forms greatest body 

 depth. 



Skin smooth, tough. Under surface and lower side of pharynx 

 with several deep longitudinal grooves, about a dozen in number. 

 Upper lip with 4 pores each side, first below nasal tube, third and 

 fourth below eye, and second about midway in snout length. A pair 

 of wide-set small pores at snout tip, another pair between nasal 

 tubes and third pair a trifle nearer snout tip than eye. Each mandi- 

 bular ramus with at least 4 inconspicuous pores. L. 1. not evident. 



Dorsal origin about midway between mouth corner and gill- 

 opening, fin rather high, continuous behind with rather short and 

 acuminate caudal. Latter about I3- in eye. Anal like dorsal, only 

 lower. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol rather light brown, with numerous indistinct 

 mottlings and marblings of paler, especially on back and fins. Edge 

 of dorsal with very narrow and at first marginal, though posteriorly 

 or on tail submarginal, dusky line. On tail behind this replaced 

 by still narrower and entirely marginal creamy edge. Latter con- 

 tinues around tail and whole length of anal, also becomes much 

 wider and distinct on front of anal. Latter apparently without any 

 distinct sub-marginal dark streak. A deep brownish blotch at 

 rictus or corner of mouth. Gill-opening pale. Head rather uniform 

 brownish above, and below paler and immaculate like abdomen. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



25 



Length 2 If inches. 



Type No. 38,163, A. N. S. P. St. Martins, West Indies. Dr. 

 R. E. Van Rijgersma. 



Only the single example described above. It differs from the 

 other West Indian species in its dentition, slender forceps-like jaws 

 and coloration. 



(h'dpzr;o? } forceps; yvadosj jaw.) 

 Gymno thorax pictus (Ahl). 



One from the Hawaiian Islands. This shows the posterior nostrils 

 with a small or low cutaneous fringe, which in combination with the 

 molar-like teeth likely allow it to enter Sidera Kaup as a valid 

 subgenus. 



AHYNNODONTOPHIS subgen. nov. 



Type Gymnothorax stigmanotus sp. nov. 



No vomerine teeth. Other teeth entirely uniserial, except three 

 on premaxillary region of upper jaw. 



This group differs from all the other subgenera included under 

 Gymnothorax chiefly in the absence of, or in having deciduous, 

 vomerine teeth. 



(J, without; owi<s } vomer; ddous, tooth; o<pi?, snake; with reference 

 to the absence of vomerine teeth.) 



(SSSBSeSwBSBi 



.^$^> 







Fig 0. — Gymnothorax stigmanotus Fowler. Type. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



GymnothoTax stigmanotus sp. nov. Fig. 6. 



Head 6f ; depth at vent 13f ; head width 3£ in its length; head 

 depth If; snout 5f; eye 12$; mouth 2\; interorbital 9; head 3f 

 to vent. 



Body long, well compressed, trunk rather deep, sides flattened, 

 and tail tapering in rather long slender point from vent. 



Head large, compressed, rather deep, with slightly swollen pharynx, 

 flattened sides scarcely constricted below, attenuated in -front, and 

 upper profile indented above eye. Snout conic, tip and surface 

 convex, basal width If its length. Eye rounded, closer to upper 

 profile than mouth, about midway in gape of latter, and without 

 eyelid. Mouth large, horizontal, and completely closing. Lips 

 rather tough and fleshy, minutely papillose. Teeth conic, mostly 

 erect, subequal, strong, edges entire, uniserial in jaws, posteriorly 

 or laterally a little inclined backward. In upper jaw each side 5 

 large erect conic canines before eyes, and 2 below latter, though 

 these a little smaller. Medianly on premaxillary region or well 

 before eye, series of 3 enlarged conic depressible canines, last largest. 

 Mandible with uniserial teeth, 4? enlarged erect conic canines each 

 side in front, followed by mostly equal row of close-set backwardly 

 directed and rather compressed teeth. No vomerine teeth now, but 

 depressions or little concavities, which would indicate that if teeth 

 occur they are deciduous?. No tongue. Mandible equal with snout 

 tip in front, surface convex, rami low and strong. Front nostril in 

 short fleshy tube, length 2 in eye. Hind nostril simple pore little 

 before eye front. Interorbital space convex. Occipital region well 

 swollen and bulging rather abruptly down to interorbital in profile. 



Gill-opening a little below median axis in body, but little inclined 

 from horizontal, length about If in snout. Pharynx with about 

 a dozen deep grooves longitudinally each side and below. 



Skin smooth, tough and thick, especially along bases of dorsal 

 and anal. Along each upper lip 5 pores well above lower edge, first 

 close before nasal tube, second close behind nasal tube, third little 

 before middle in snout, fourth a little before front eye edge and 

 fifth below hind eye edge. On snout above a pair of wide-set pores 

 between nasal tubes, and another a little before third upper labial 

 pair, well superior on snout. About 5 pores on each mandibular 

 ramus. L. 1. not evident. 



Dorsal origin apparently near last fourth in space between hind eye 

 edge and gill-opening, fin high, especially behind, where continuous 

 with caudal. Latter rounded, length about If in eye. Anal like 

 dorsal, only lower. Vent close before anal. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Color in alcohol deep chocolate-brown, mostly with this ground- 

 color entirely uniform, and belly and head below scarcely paler. On 

 back and most of trunk posteriorly, inconspicuous pale or" minute 

 grayish dots like pin-points, rather sparsely distributed. These 

 not extending on belly or head, though on dorsal fin becoming more 

 numerous than on body. Dorsal also with numerous oblique narrow 

 lines of darker shade than body color, sloping up from back towards 

 edge. Anal with several more or less complete darker longitudinal 

 lines than ground-color of fin. Iris brownish. Mouth brownish 

 inside. Rictus not darker than ground-color of bod}'. Gill-openings 

 similar. Teeth pale. 



Length 27| inches. 



Type No. 16,705, A. N. S. P. No data. (This specimen was 

 in a jar received from E. D. Cope labelled "Texas" and may have 

 been secured somewhere in the West Indies.) 



In many respects this species resembles the larger examples of 

 G. funebris in the collection, but it has no vomerine teeth, and the 

 lips are densely papillose. Its dorsal is also more posteriorly inserted 

 and the coloration is entirely different. 



(Iriytj-a, spot; euroy, back; with reference to the dorsal spots.) 



Subgenus PRIODOXOPHIS Kaup. 

 Gymnothorax ocellatus Agassiz. 



One from Santo Domingo, West Indies. This seems to agree 

 better with Agassiz's figure, than the other examples listed below, 

 which I formerly identified with it. Agassiz shows the white spots 

 of uneven size, some of which about equal to pupil and others smaller, 

 and dorsal and anal with many various white spots, of which some 

 small and others much larger than eye, black interspaces often 

 equally large. 



Gymnothorax ocellatus saxicola Jordan and Davis. 



One from New Jersey and another from Pensacola, Florida. 



Eurymyctera acutirostris (Abbott). 



Murcena acutirostris Abbott, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1860, p. 476. 

 Hawaii. 



No. 998. A. N. S. P., type of M. acutirostris Abbott. 



Echidna zebra (Shaw). 



One from Muscat Cove, Philippine Islands. 



Echidna peli (Kaup). 



Three from West Africa. 




28 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Echidna nocturna (Cope). 



Pcecilophis nocturna Cope, Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Hayden, 1871 (1872), 

 p. 474. Rio Grande at San Jose, Costa Rica. 



No. 14,926, A. N. S. P., type of P. nocturnus Cope. 



Echidna chionostigma sp. now Fig. 7. 



Head, 8; depth 15^; head width 3| in its length; head depth If; 

 snout 6; eye 9^; mouth 2f; interorbital 8f ; head 3f to vent. 



Body moderately long, well compressed, trunk of about even 

 depth, belly with lower surface rounded, and long tail tapering back 

 in rather acuminate tip. 



Fig. 7. — Echidna chionostigma Fowler. Type. 



Head well compressed, upper profile rather swollen above with 

 depression above eye otherwise like convex lower, and more or less 

 flattened sides not especially converging above or below. Snout 

 surface and profile convex, basal width 1| its length. Eye rounded, 

 without eyelid, trifle nearer mouth corner than snout tip. Mouth 

 nearly horizontal, not completely closing, moderate. Lips thick, 

 fleshy, minutely papillose. Teeth mostly molar-like, upper anterior 

 to eye largest in same jaw, these in a continuous outer series and 

 median gradually larger series of 3, all erect and obtusely conic. 

 On vomer teeth continued back from anterior upper teeth as an 

 irregular double series of smaller shorter ones. In upper jaw from 

 below front of each eye backward, a somewhat irregular double 

 series of rather slender sharply pointed conic depressible teeth. 

 Mandibular teeth rather short, obtuse, mostly somewhat pointed, 

 and biserial anteriorly where approximated to upper jaw when 

 mandible closes. No tongue. Mandible powerful, well curved, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



rami rather low, symphyseal tip trifle shorter than snout tip. Front 

 nostril in short pale tube each side of snout tip. Hind nostril in 

 slightly elevated cutaneous rim above front eye edge. Inter- 

 orbital convex. 



Gill-opening inclined moderately, below median body axis, about 

 equals eye in length. Pharynx well swollen, though not conspicu- 

 ously so. 



Skin smooth, tough. Along each upper lip 5 pores. On snout 

 above 2 pairs of pores between front nasal tubes and another pair 

 placed about midway between front and hind pairs. Along each 

 mandibular ramus 5 pores. No 1. 1. 



Dorsal origin last § in space between hind eye edge and gill- 

 opening, fin well elevated and continuous around tail with small 

 rounded caudal. Latter about equals eye. Anal like dorsal, only 

 lower. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol deep chocolate-brown generally, marked with 

 small white points, well scattered, numerous, rounded and none 

 larger than pupil. These white spots not extending on median line 

 of abdomen or head below. Labial pores of head each situated in a 

 white spot. Mouth corners and gill-openings pale or like surrounding 

 coloration. Inside mouth pale. Iris pale slaty. Whitish dots on 

 fins similar to those on body. 



Length 13| inches. 



Type No. 14,519, A. N. S. P. Probably from the Gulf of Cali- 

 fornia. 



Also No, 14,520, same data, paratype. Head 7|; depth 17^; 

 snout 5| in head ; eye 8 \ ; mouth 3 ; interorbital 8 ; head 4*- to vent. 

 Mouth completely closing. Anterior upper median enlarged teeth 

 depressible. Neither of my examples show the pale dots with 

 blackish margins. 



This species resembles Echidna nocturnus, but differs in the longer 

 anal. The example supposed to have been taken at Cape San 

 Lucas by Xantus, and referred to E. nocturnus by Jordan and Davis, 

 may probably be identical with the present species. 



(Xtwv, snow; <rriyij.a^ spot; with reference to the spotted coloration.) 



Echidna catenata (Bloch). 



Three from St. Martins, West Indies. Another, very young, 

 largely agrees with the largest in its dentition. In color many of 

 its bands are alternately irregular, so that but few nearly complete 

 saddle-like blotches form. Length 6 inches. 




30 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Echidna nebulosa (Ahl). 



Three from Samoa, one from Hawaii, and another without data 

 (likely from the last locality?). 



Echidna polyzona (Richardson). 



One from Hawaii. 



Eohidna zonata Fowler. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1900, p. 495, PI. 18, fig. 2. Hawaii. 



No. 16,484, A. N. S. P., type. 



Echidna sauvagei sp. nov. Fig. 8. 



Head 7; depth 13§; head width 3* its length; head depth If; 

 snout 6; eye 9; mouth 3; interorbital 8 J ; head 3| to vent. 



Body long, well compressed or sides with but slightly convex 

 surfaces, trunk of about uniform depth, and tail tapering back 

 behind moderately slender to tip. 





Fig. 8. — Echidna sauvagei Fowler. Type. 



Head well compressed, rather swollen behind, lower profile more 

 evenly convex than upper, which depressed slightly over eye, and 

 sides not converging above or below. Snout convex over profile 

 and surface, basal width \\ its length. Eye large, slightly ellipsoid, 

 without eyelid, little behind middle in upper jaw length. Mouth 

 nearly horizontal, commissure but slightly curving down though 

 showing it not completely closing. Lips thick, fleshy, smooth, 

 rather broad and largely free. Teeth all coarse, rather large, obtuse. 

 Upper teeth little longer than others anterior to eye, latter more 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



conic though tips not sharp pointed, forming an erect outer series 

 and a median series of 3 larger and partly movable broad-based 

 ones. All vomerine region from about opposite beginning of eye 

 backwards with series of 3, and in widest portion of area 4, of broad 

 low convex molar-like teeth. Surface of this whole area also convex. 

 Along sides of upper jaw, also extending well forward though rather 

 irregularly, two rows of small and rather slender obtusely-pointed 

 teeth, these also in places partly movable. Mandibular teeth low, 

 molar-like, biserial, largely uniform in size, close-set, and only 

 anterior inner series more enlarged with outer series decreasing in 

 size. No tongue. Mandible strong, convex, curved so that only 

 symphyseal region approximates front of upper jaw, and tip a little 

 shorter than slightly protruding snout. Front nostril in fleshy tube 

 each fide of snout tip, length 2 in eye. Hind nostril simple pore 

 over eye front, edge hardly elevated. 



Gill-opening short and nearly horizontal slit about midway in 

 axis of body, length about equals eye. Pharynx well swollen, 

 surface smooth and but few slight lateral longitudinal short grooves. 

 Skin tough, smooth. Along each upper lip laterally 4 pores, and 

 along each mandibular ramus 6 pores. On snout 3 pairs of pores, 

 first at tip, second between nasal tubes and third midway hi snout 

 length. No 1. 1. 



Dorsal origin little nearer gill-opening than mouth corner, fin 

 high and continuous with caudal. Latter rounded, length 1^ in 

 eye. Anal like dorsal, only lower. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol rich brown generally, a trifle darker above on 

 trunk than below, though tail more unicolor. Along back about 

 24 transverse obscure ill-defined and slightly darker bars or bands, 

 these not continuous across belly or only after vent. Through eye 

 and passing over forehead and mandible median ly a deep brown 

 transverse band though not continuous on lower surface of mandible. 

 Another ill-defined band, though leaving a quite dusky blotch or 

 tinge at rictus passes similarly behind latter, though including it in 

 its course. Transverse bands also reflected on dorsal and anal. 

 Body most everywhere on trunk, tail and fins, with more or less 

 swarthy appearance. End of muzzle largely whitish, surface of 

 snout above and symphyseal region of mandible slightly tinged with 

 brownish. Edges of fins not darker, except where bands extend 

 more or less completely. Eye pale slaty. Inside mouth whitish. 

 Length 15| inches. 

 Type No. 38,164, A. N. S. P. No data (though taken from a jar 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



containing an example of Echidna nebulosa and two examples of 

 Gymnothorax laysanus, thus likely from Hawaii?). 



This example resembles Poecilophis tritor Vaillant and Sauvage, 

 but differs in the throat not having some horizontal black lines, the 

 tail a little longer than the body, the gill-opening not surrounded 

 by a more or less distinct blackish spot, and the dentition. 



(Named for Dr. Henri E. Sauvage, author of numerous contri- 

 butions to Ichthyology). 



Echidna delicatula Jordan and Seale. 



One from Apia, Samoa. 



Uropterygius macrocephalus Bleeker. 



Three from Apia, Samoa. 



MOBJNG-TJID^. 

 Aphthalmichthys gangeticus sp. nov. Fig. 9. 



Head 10|; depth about 53; head width about 5 in its length; 

 head depth about 4; snout 7; eye about 1| in snout; mouth 3f 

 in head; interorbital about 2 in snout; head 9| to vent. 



— — -^ -' ' ■ ': , - "«j- ■. . '■. — ,:•;- „„■, , ;,-'■',.- v,-fc.-i;~i\- .,,' -:-.;■:■■ ■-, :.!.:■'■. :"..CLL1^ ■.-•' - -^ 



*5>SSS35^i 



Fig. 9. — Aphthalmichthys gangeticus Fowler. Type. 



Body slender, subcylindrical, of more or less uniform depth ante- 

 riorly and only tapering gradually behind. Tail short, slightly 

 compressed and attenuated. 



Head with rather swollen appearance, surface convex, attenuated 

 in front. Snout conic, pointed, basal width about 1| its length, and 

 tip slightly projects (damaged, but restored in figure) beyond sym- 

 physis of mandible. Eye a little ellipsoid, a little nearer rictus than 

 snout tip, without eyelid. Mouth horizontal, rather small. Teeth 

 small, conic, rather slender, biserial around edge of upper jaw and 

 uniserial in mandible. No other teeth clearly distinguished. No 

 tongue. Jaws completely closing, and rami low in mouth. An- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



terior nostril?. Posterior nostril simple pore close before eye on side 

 of snout. Interorbital slightly convex. 



Gill-opening small, lateral, about size of eye in length? (damaged). 



Skin smooth. 



Dorsal and anal developed as low cutaneous folds, former beginning 

 about opposite vent and latter close after. Both obsolete behind 

 and in height scarcely equal to half of body-depth at that point. 

 End of tail simple point, without any trace of caudal fin. Vent 

 little before last eight in total length. 



Color faded dull or uniform pale brownish. Eyes slaty. 



Length about 5f inches. 



Type No. 1,086, A. N. S. P. Ganges River, India. Dr. M. 

 Burrough. 



This species differs from the only other Indian species of the 

 genus, A. macrocephalus, in having the vent much more posterior. 



(Named for the River Ganges, somewhere in the estuary of which 

 the species was likely secured.) 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



RECORDS OF FISHES FOR THE MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES AND VIRGINIA. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



In this paper a list of the species obtained from each State is given, 

 with a summary of all the localities representing material which 

 I have not noted before. It is desirable to place these all on record 

 as of value in geographical distribution. In preparing this article 

 many specimens have been examined, often embracing in numbers 

 many thousands, of which the more important were preserved for 

 the collections of the Academy, besides others studied at the various 

 fisheries, markets -and elsewhere. Among many of the latter class 

 one often meets with large forms undesirable for preservation, so 

 that but few were saved. Some species were quite rare, and others 

 at least new records for the States in which they were taken. Still 

 others are interesting in pointing out new limits or features in their 

 distribution. Two pelagic species, wandering to the coasts of 

 New Jersey, are apparently new. 



New York. 



All the specimens from this State, listed below, were received 

 from Mr. T. D. Keim during the past few years. 1 



Anohovia eurystole Swain and Meek. 



One taken at Long Beach, Long Island, on August 20, 1911. 

 Other fishes noted at this locality were Raja eglanteria, Fundulus 

 majalis, F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus, and Ammodytes americanus. 



Notropisbifrenatus (Cope). 



Dungan Hill, Staten Island. 

 Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Hunter's Island, in Long Island Sound. 



1 An adult Pygosteus pungitius and ten young Poronotus triacanthus from 

 Long Island Sound near Darien, Conn., were also secured in the summer of 1910. 

 The latter were taken from under a floating medusa. 



1 also have Seserinus paru, Chcetodipterus faber and Lagocephalus Icevigatus 

 secured in August of 1907 at Nantucket, Mass., by Dr. Benjamin Sharp. These 

 were all taken from inside the Great Point traps. Dr. Sharp has also reported 

 a large Tarpon atlanticus taken at the same locality on September 30, 1909. I 

 mention these as occasional species in the New England region of the Virginian 

 province. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 

 Hunter's Island. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



Hudson River in Greene Co. 



Mugil cephalus Linnaeus. 



Four young from South Beach, Long Island, on July 16, 1911. 

 Seriola zonata (Mitchill). 



Long Beach. 

 Pseudopriacanthus altus (Gill). 



Young from Long Beach on August 2, 1911. 

 Tautogolabrus adspersus (Walbaum). 



Hunter's Island. 



Myoxocephalus octodecimspinosus (Mitchill). 



Two very young from tide-pools at Rye Beach on May 19, 1910. 



New Jersey. 



Squatina squatina (Linnceus). 



A female about 40 inches long was secured at Sea Isle City, through 

 Mr. W. J. Fox, on July 7, 1911. It was taken in the off-shore pounds, 

 and known to the fishermen as "lizard fish." A large Mola mold, 

 weighing about 200 pounds, was also secured at the same time, 

 though not preserved. 

 Atopiohthys novse-caesariensis sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head about 13f; depth about llf; snout about 4j in head, 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye 4; maxillary 2j; interorbital 

 3j; head depth at occiput 2\; muscular segments about 70 + 50. 



Body oblong, greatly compressed, tapering well anteriorly to 

 region of greatest depth about third, fourth and fifth sixths of trunk 

 length. Tail tapering rather suddenly, though less gradual than 

 front of bodv. 





.* ' • ~ - . '. ~-\_ 



Fig. 1. — Atopichthys novce-ccesariensis Fowler. Type. 



Head widest part of body, slightly compressed, profiles similar. 

 Snout conic, compressed slightly, basal width trifle greater than its 

 length. Eye large, rounded, its hind edge about midway in head- 

 Mouth cleft straight, extends back about opposite eye centre - 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



Mandible depressed, shallow, rami low, symphysis extending forward 

 slightly before snout tip. Maxillary not distinct. Teeth long, 

 slender, uniserial in jaws, and flaring out all around jaw edges. No 

 teeth on palate. Tongue not distinct. Nostrils well separated 

 small pores, on side of snout, anterior near snout tip and posterior 

 close before eye. Interorbital a little convex. 



Gill-opening small, inferior. 



Body naked, smooth, myocommas and myomeres distinct. 



Vertical fins low, continuous around caudal and latter less than 

 eye. Pectoral not evident. Vent about last f in total length. 



Color in alcohol uniform pale brownish. Iris slaty. Along 

 ventral edge of body 2 series of dark chromatophores, these series 

 closely approximated, and a single chromatophore about opposite 

 each myomere. No other chromatophores. 



Length 4f inches. 



Type No. 982, A. N. S. P. Beesley's Point, Cape May County, 

 New Jersey. Charles E. Ashmead. 



Only a single example, described above. It appears to be related 

 to species without pectoral fins, such as Atopichthys gillii (Eigenmann 

 and Kennedy) and A. strommani (Eigenmann and Kennedy). It 

 is, however, much longer and more slender, with the vent different, 

 and the muscular bands with other formula. 



(Named for New Jersey.) 



Atopichthys phillipsi Fowler. 



Another example of this interesting fish, only known before from 

 the type, was secured at ("Mountain Island") Corson's Inlet on 

 June 26, 1909, by Dr. R. J. Phillips. On this occasion Dr. Phillips 

 notes Mustelus mustelus, Raja eglanteria, Brevoortia tyrannus, Fun- 

 dulus majalis, F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus, Menidia menidia notata, 

 Centropristis striatus, Bairdiella chrysura, Menticirrhus saxatilis, 

 M. americanus, Scicenops ocellatus, Cynoscion regalis, Tautogolabrus 

 adspersus, Tautoga onitis, Spheroides maculatus, Paralichthys dentatus 

 and Opsanus tau. 



Felichthys marinus (Mitchill). 



One taken August 11, another August 14, and still another August 

 20, 1911, at Corson's Inlet. 



Fundulus luciae (Baird), 



Mr. W. B. Davis secured one on June 21, 1911, in the salt-ponds 

 near Peck's Bay. It was associated with F. heteroclitus macro- 

 lepidotus and Cyprinodon variegatus. On July 22 Mr. D. McCadden 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



secured Apeltes quadracus, Syngnathus fuscus, Menidia menidia 

 notata and Menticirrhus saxatilis in Peck's Bay. 



Gambusia gracilis Heckel. 



Abundant in tributaries of Goshen Creek, near Goshen, on October 

 13, 1911, where many were secured by Mr. F. Learning and the writer. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolipidotus was the only species we found 

 associated, though in the upper reaches, while Gambusia was absent, 

 Abramis crysoleucas, Erimyzon sucetta oblongus and Umbra pygmcea 

 were found. In Bidwell Creek we found Anguilla chrisypa, F. 

 majalis, F. heteroclitus macrolepi dolus, Cyprinodon variegatus, Menidia 

 beryllina cerea, M. menidia notata, Bairdiella chrysura, Leiostomus 

 xanthtirus, Micropogon undulatus and Pogonias cromis. Myriads 

 of Palmnonetes vulgaris were also secured. In Crooked Creek we 

 found A. chrisypa, F. heteroclitus^ ?nacrolepidotus, F. diaphanus and 

 Apeltes quadracus. 



Tylosurus raphidoma (Ranzani). 



Mr. W. J. Fox secured an adult example at Sea Isle City during 

 the past summer, besides examples of Rachycentron canadus, Batistes 

 carolinensis, Stephanolepis hispidus, Lagocephalus laevigatas, Alutera 

 shcepfii, Lophopsetta metadata and Echeneis naucrates. 



Sphyraena borealis De Kay. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips secured an example about 10? inches long, 

 taken from the stomach of a blue fish (Pomatomus saltatrix) caught 

 at Corson's Inlet, on September 15, 1911. Other interesting species 

 obtained by Dr. Phillips at this locality are Leptocephalus conger, 

 Chilomycterus schcepfi, Rissola marginata and a young Pogonias 

 cromis. 



Lepomis incisor Valenciennes. 



Mr. B. H. Gledhill secured an adult in Warrington Pond, at 

 Tomlin, on September 23, 1911. 



Lyosphaera globosa Everniann and Kendall. 



An example was secured at Anglesea some years ago by the late 

 Uselma C. Smith. It is now in the collection, and in good preserva- 

 tion. This species has not been recorded from New Jersey before, 

 and this is therefore evidently its most northern range. 



Etropus micrastomus (Gill). 



Mr. W. B. Davis and the writer secured three examples of this 

 interesting flounder on June 21, 1911, in Great Egg Harbor Bay at 

 Ocean City. Other fishes we also found there were Mustelus mus- 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



telus, Raja eglanteria, Pomolobus mediocris, P. pseudoharengus, 

 Anchovia mitchilli, Fundulus majalis, Syngnathus fuscus, Menidia 

 menidia notata, Trachinotus carolinus, Cynoscion regalis, Menti- 

 cirrhus saxatilis, Lophopsetta maculata, Paralichthys dentatus, Pseudo- 

 pleuronectes americanus and Achirus fasciatus. This is noteworthy 

 as all the pleuronectids were found associated. 

 Antennarius teleplanus sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head (measured to axil of pectoral) about If; depth about 1§; 

 D. I— I— I— 12; A. 7; P. 11; V. 5; head width (measured to axil 

 of pectoral) about If in its length; snout 5f in head, measured from 

 median upper jaw tip to gill-opening; eye 10|; maxillary 2|; man- 

 dible length 2\ ; mouth width at ricti 2\ ; interorbital \\ ; bait about 

 2f; second dorsal spine about 4§; third dorsal spine about 3^; 



^ 



»% 



s 



Fig. 2. — Antennarius teleplanus Fowler. Type. 



fifth dorsal ray about 3; anal base about 4; fourth anal ray about 

 2|; caudal 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 4* ; pectoral base 5^; 

 ventral base 6 J. 



Body deep, well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, back elevated 

 with approximating surfaces, and rounded belly with swollen appear- 

 ance. Caudal peduncle compressed, rather small, its length about 

 f its least depth. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Head very large, deep, and with mandible closed anterior profile 

 nearly evenly convex. Upper surfaces approximating like those of 

 back, and lower well swollen convexly till much wider. Snout short, 

 little inclined from horizontal forward, length about § its width. 

 Eye small, rounded, high, lateral, anteriorly below second dorsal 

 spine. Mouth large, wide, nearly vertical. Premaxillaries well 

 protractile. Maxillary long, nearly vertical, its hind lower edge 

 about opposite front eye edge, and greatest distal expansion but 

 trifle less than eye. Upper lip thin, tough, and lower thicker though 

 also tough. Teeth small, sharply pointed, rather slenderly conic 

 and in rather narrow bands in jaws. No teeth on median line of 

 mouth roof, though 2 patches of teeth, similar to those in jaws, 

 in each palatine region. Two small patches of similar pharyngeal 

 teeth above and 2 patches also below. Tongue large, broad, de- 

 pressed, free in front and along sides, smooth, and front edge convex. 

 Mandible not very powerful, broad, with slight symphyseal knob 

 in front, and rami but moderately expanding at their posterior 

 articulations. Nostrils small, obscure, about last f between eye 

 front and edge of upper jaw. Interorbital slightly convex. 



Gill-opening small slit at lower pectoral base well before middle 

 in entire length of fish. 



Body very finely roughened everywhere, except at lower surfaces 

 of pectorals and ventrals. Tubercles in many regions bifid. Tuber- 

 cles on head above and 1. 1. anteriorly rather large, or as spinescent 

 clusters. A smooth area on interorbital between second and third 

 spines. Extending down along preopercular region some obscure 

 spinescent clusters. No cutaneous flaps, or if a few present very 

 inconspicuous. L. 1. scarcely evident, except anteriorly, and even 

 there obsolete. 



Bait very slender and not extending beyond middle of third 

 depressed dorsal spine, bulbous and bifid at end, and each division 

 with a few short filaments. Second dorsal spine inserted close after 

 bait, largely free, mobile, though not depressible back to origin of 

 third dorsal spine. Latter with only end mobile, united behind for 

 large part by broad basal membrane, and depressible spine not 

 reaching back to origin of rayed dorsal. Soft dorsal rather high, 

 long, its margin very unevenly gashed as some rays are inserted 

 nearer one another than to others. Anal small, well posterior, and 

 extending slightly further back on caudal peduncle, median rays 

 longest with edge of fin slightly gashed in places. Caudal large, 

 rounded behind with median rays longest. Pectoral moderate, 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



tips of rays projecting slightly beyond membranes. Ventrals similar, 

 though smaller than pectorals. Vent rather conspicuous, close 

 before anal. 



Color in alcohol with ground tint dull olivaceous to yellowish, 

 former largely above and latter obtaining below. A number of 

 blackish or dusky narrow streaks radiate from eye, where they 

 extend over iris to pupil. Several similar streaks radiate from upper 

 edge of third dorsal spine. Soft dorsal with numerous black streaks, 

 broad, and many broken into large blotches or spots, nearly vertical 

 or slightly inclined back, and extending down on back more or less 

 regularly till level with upper edge of caudal peduncle. Then all 

 more inclined forward towards pectoral axilla and abdomen. Though 

 body blotched with dusky between gill-opening and vent, no blotches 

 on entire belly between ventrals and vent, except around latter. 

 Anal with blackish blotches or streaks like those on soft dorsal, these 

 in about four rows. Caudal with three distinct rows of transverse 

 black spots or blotches, smaller than on soft dorsal and anal. Pec- 

 toral and ventral covered with large black blotches both above and 

 below, and several obsolete ones before base of former. Bait pale, 

 with narrow transverse blackish bars. Gill-opening pale. Tongue, 

 and mouth inside, whitish generally, though former with dusky and 

 blackish mottlings. Pupil pale. Most of dark blotches on all fins 

 show along their edges a paler or more whitish shade than ground 

 color. 



Length about 4 inches. 



Type No. 38,162, A. N. S. P. Corson's Inlet, Cape May County, 

 New Jersey. Caught in the bait-net on September 30, 1911. Dr. 

 R. J. Phillips. 



Only the type known. It closely resembles Antennarius scaber 

 (Cuvier), but differs in the absence of the numerous dermal body 

 flaps, as well as the pattern of coloration shown by Valenciennes. 2 

 Antennarius tigris (Poey) is also another species closely related, 

 though differing markedly, if Poey's figure is to be trusted. Poey 

 shows the caudal almost entirely spotted, a row of five black spots 

 in a slightly oblique row on anal, and bait with its bulbous end 

 longer than basal portion, in fact reaching back to tip of first soft 

 dorsal ray. 



(T>)XiicX&vos } wandering far; so named as no American member of 

 the genus ever before recorded so far north of Florida.) 



2 Regne Animal Cuv., Ed. Luxe, 1839, PI. 85, fig. 1. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Besides the above records a few of the numerous small collections, 

 made during the past year, in some localities where material has not 

 been obtained before, may be of interest. 



During June Mr. W. B. Davis and the writer secured the following: 

 in Cedar Swamp Creek Pomolobus mediocris, Alosa sapidissima, 

 Anguilla chrisypa, Abramis crysoleucas, Fundulus heteroclitus macro- 

 lepidotus, F. diaphanus, Mugil curema, Eupomotis gibbosus and 

 M or one americana; in a tributary of the Tuckahoe River at Johnson's 

 Mill, Pomolobus mediocris, Abramis crysoleucas, Ameiurus natalis 

 prosthistuis, Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus, F. diaphanus, Esox 

 americanus, E. reticulatus, Aphredoderus say anus, Mesogonistius 

 chcetodon, Enneacanthus gloriosus and Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi; 

 a tributary of the Tuckahoe River at Wallace's Mill, Notropis 

 chalybams abbotti, Erimyzon succetta oblong us and Boleichthys fusi- 

 jormis. 



On July 3 Mr. W. T. Innes, Jr., and the writer secured the following 

 in Pancoast's Run, near Pancoast's Mill: Umbra pygmcea, Esox 

 reticulatus, Aphredoderus sayanus, Mesogonistius chcetodon and 

 Enneacanthus gloriosus. On December 2 we visited Cohansey Creek 

 at Bridgeton, in Cumberland County, and found: Anguilla chrisypa, 

 Abramis crysoleucas, Notropis bifrenatus, Fundulus heteroclitus 

 macrolepidotus, F. diaphanus, Apeltes quadracus, Enneacanthus 

 gloriosus and Eupomotis gibbosus. A small "water boatman," 

 kindly identified by Messrs. Henry Skinner and E. T. Cresson, Jr., 

 as Corixa brimleyi, a North Carolina species, was secured, and is 

 another interesting addition to the fauna of New Jersey. 



An interesting collection made at Cape May Point by Mr. E. R. 

 Brown during the past summer contained: Sphyrna ?ygcena, 

 Squalus acanthias, Raja erinacea, Pomolobus aestivalis, Brevoortia 

 tyrannus, Anchovia mitchilli, Tylosurus marinus, Hippocampus 

 hudsonius, Mugil cephalus, Selene vomer, Trachinotus carolinus, 

 Pomatomus saltatrix, Centropristis striatus, Lagodon rhomboides, 

 Leiostomus xanthurus, Menticirrhus saxatilis, Spheroides maculatus, 

 Chilomycterus schoepfi, Prionotus evolans strigatus, Rissola marginata 

 and Pseudopleuronectes americanus. Two interesting examples of 

 Chloridella empusa were also obtained, and this species was reported 

 to be abundant. 



Pennsylvania. 



Mr. R. W. Wehrle has collected extensively in Indiana County, 

 forwarding many interesting collections to the Academy. The 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



other material has been secured by the writer largely, though often 

 with the assistance of others whom I have acknowledged elsewhere. 



Petromyzon marinus Linnseus. 



Delaware River at Torresdale, Philadelphia County. I also^ 

 examined a young one from Goldsboro, York County, in the posses- 

 sion of Mr. P. Hertzog. 



Ichthyomyzonconcolor (Kirtland;. 



Cherry Run, tributary to Crooked Run, and McKenny Run, 

 Indiana County. 



Acipenser brevirostrum Le Sueur. 



Delaware River at Torresdale, Philadelphia County. I also found 

 one at Bristol, Bucks County, on May 3, 1908. 



Though I have examined examples of A. rubicundus at Erie and 

 in the pounds near by, none were obtained for our collection. 



AmiatUS calvus (Linnaeus). 



Erie. A few were taken in the pounds in 1907. 

 Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Abundant in Scott's Creek, Bucks County. • 



Coregonus clupeaformis (Mitchill). 



Erie. 



Leucichthys artedi (Le Sueur). 



Erie. 



Salvelinus fontinalis (Mitchill). 



Brandywine tributary near New Garden, Chester County; Trout 

 Run, Lancaster County; Sugar Valley Run, Mifflin County. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. 



Long Neck at Tinicum Island, Delaware County; Valley Forge 

 and Gladwyne, Montgomery County; Neshaminy Creek near 

 Langhorne, Bridgetown, Etterton, Long Pond, Guinea Creek, Scott's 

 Creek, Bucks County; McCall's Ferry, Lancaster County; Juniata 

 River at Newton Hamilton, Mifflin County. 



Campostoma anomalum (Rafinesque). 



McKenny, Home, Burnhamer, Rock, Saltgiver, Besnham, Broad 

 Head, Smitten, Martin's, Mud Lick, Smicksburg, Groft's and 

 McCormick's Runs, Ross Run and branch, Elders and Little Runs, 

 Pickering Run and small branch, feeder to Crooked Run, Cowans- 

 hanoc, Grant and Pine Townships, tributary of North Branch of 

 Two Lick Creek, Pine Creek and Marion Branch, Susquehanna 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Creek, branches of Big and Little Mahoning and Crooked Creeks, 

 Indiana County. 



Pimephales notatus (Rafinesque). 



McKenny, Home, Burnhamer, Besnham, Smitten, Martin's, 

 Mud Lick, Smicksburg, Groft's and McCormick's Runs, Ross Run 

 and branch, Elders and Little Runs, Pickering Run and small branch, 

 Crooked Run and tributary, Cowanshanoc, Grant and Pine Town- 

 ships, tributary of North Branch of Two Lick Creek, Pine Creek 

 and Marion Branch, Susquehanna Creek, branches of Big and Little 

 Mahoning and Crooked Creeks, Indiana County; Allegheny River 

 at Foxburg, Clarion County. 



I have also found it abundant in the Schuylkill River near the 

 mouth of Mill Creek in Montgomery County. This is the most 

 eastern locality in the State at which the species has been obtained. 



Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). 



Walton Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; Neshaminy 

 Creek near Langhorne, Etterton and Long Pond, Bucks County; 

 Naylor's Run, Delaware County; Pennypack Creek near Huntingdon 

 Valley and Walnut Hill, Montgomery County; Crum Creek near 

 White Horse and Reese's Run, Chester County; Juniata River at 

 Newton Hamilton, Mifflin County. 



Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Trout Creek near Centerville, Mill Creek at Gladwyne, Mont- 

 gomery County ; Brookfield Run, Mill Creek at Flushing, Neshaminy 

 Creek near Etterton, Tottam Creek, Bucks County; tributary of 

 Brandywine below Chadd's Ford Junction, Chester County. 



Hacker's, Trout and Akron Runs near Ephrata, Lancaster County; 

 Sugar Valley Run, Mifflin County; Wopsonomick Valley Run, 

 Blair County. 



Tributary of Allegheny River at Warren, Warren County; Alle- 

 gheny River at Foxburg, Clarion County; Wehrle's, Simpson's, 

 McKenny, Burnhamer, Besnham, Rock, Heilman, Smitten, Martin's, 

 Mud Lick, Smicksburg, Groft's, McCormick's Runs, Ross Run and 

 branch, Elders and Little Runs, Pickering Run and small branch, 

 feeder to Crooked Run, Grant and Pine Townships, tributary of 

 North Branch of Two Lick Creek, Pine Creek and Marion Branch, 

 Susquehanna Creek, Branches of Crooked and Little Mahoning 

 Creeks, Cowanshanoc, Indiana County; Castleman River at Meyers- 

 dale, Somerset County. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Leuciscus elongatus (Kirtland). 



Simpson's, Cherry, McKenny, McCormick's, Mud Lick, Smicks- 

 burg, Groft's, Allen's, Home, Burnhamer, Besnham, Ross, Rock, 

 Saltgiver, Broad Head, Elders, Little, Crooked, Smitten, Pickering 

 and Martin's Runs, tributary North Branch Two Lick Creek, Pine 

 Creek and Marion Branch, Pine Township, Susquehanna Creek, 

 branches of Ross Run and Crooked Creek, Indiana County. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Hunter's Run tributary to Ridley Creek and upper branch of 

 Taylor's Run, Chester County; Long Neck at Tinicum Island, 

 Naylor's Run, Delaware County; Gladwyne, Montgomery County; 

 Torresdale, Philadelphia County; Guinea Creek, Bucks County. 



Cocalico Creek near Denver and Swamp Bridge, Lancaster County. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



Torresdale, Philadelphia County; Neshaminy Creek near Lang- 

 horne, Etterton and Long Pond, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Guinea 

 Creek, Bucks County; Naylor's Run, Delaware County. 



Notropis deliciosus (Girard). 



Mr. Wehrle secured one from a tributary to Ross Run, Indiana 

 County, in September of 1911. This species is only known from 

 Pennsylvania waters by the previous record of Evermann and 

 Bollman, for the Monongahela basin. 



Notropis procne (Cope). 



Neshaminy Creek near Etterton and Long Pond, and Mill Creek 

 at Wycombe, Bucks County. 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Girard). 



Bustleton, Philadelphia County; Neshaminy Creek near Lang- 

 horne, Bridgetown, Etterton and Long Pond, Bucks County. 

 Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Walton Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; Schuylkill 

 River near Mill Creek, Gladwyne and near-by quarry-holes, Valley 

 Forge, Walnut Hill, Montgomery County; first and second tribu- 

 taries of Brandywine below Chadd's Ford Junction, Crossart, 

 Chester County; Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Etterton and 

 Long Pond, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 



Akron and Trout Runs near Ephrata, Lancaster County; Juniata 

 River at Newton Hamilton, Mifflin County. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Tributary of Brandywine below Chadd's Ford Junction, Crossart, 

 Crum Creek near White Horse, Reese's Run, Chester County; 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



Naylor's Run, Delaware County; Schuylkill River at Mill Creek 

 estuary, Beth Ayres, Walnut Hill, Montgomery County; Walton 

 Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; Tottam Creek, Neshaminy 

 Creek near Langhorne, Bridgetown, Etterton, Long Pond, Mill 

 Creek at Flushing, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Bucks County; tributary 

 of Bushkill Creek at Belfast, Northampton County. 



Trout Run, Witmer's Mills and Snokestown Run, Lancaster 

 County. 



Tributary North Branch of Two Lick Creek, feeder to Crooked 

 Run, Grant and Pine Townships, Burnhamer, Besnham, Ross, 

 Saltgiver, Broad Head, Elders, Little, Groft's, Mud Lick, Crooked, 

 Smicksburg, Smitten, Hileman and Pickering Runs, Susquehanna 

 Creek, small branch of Pickering Run, branch of Big Mahoning 

 Creek, Cowanshanoc, branch of Crooked Creek, McCormick's Run 

 and branch of Ross Run, branch of Little Mahoning Creek, Indiana 

 County. 



Notropis rubrifrons (Cope). 



Two from a small branch of Pickering Run and seventeen from a 

 branch of Big Mahoning Creek, Indiana County. Only known from 

 the Kiskiminitas and Monongahela basins, in Pennsylvania. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 



Abundant in the Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne and Bridge- 

 town, Bucks County. 

 Ericymba buccata Cope. 



Two Lick Creek, small branch of Pickering Run, Ramsey's 

 Cherry, Burnhamer, Besnham, Mud Lick, Groft's, Ross, Elders, 

 Little, Smitten and Pickering Runs, Pine Township, tributary North 

 Branch of Two Lick Creek, branch and feeder to Crooked Run, 

 Indiana County. 



Rhinicb.tb.ys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Brandywine tributary below Chadd's Ford Junction, Crossart, 

 Crum Creek near White Horse, Reese's Run, Hunter's Run tributary 

 to Ridley Creek, Chester County; Naylor's Run, Reese's Run near 

 Central Square, Delaware County; Walton Run near Byberry, 

 Philadelphia County; Beth Ayres, Walnut Hill, Mill Creek at 

 Gladwyne, Trout Run near Centerville, Montgomery County ; 

 Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Etterton, Long Pond, Mill Creek 

 at Flushing, Biookfield Run, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Bucks County; 

 tributary of Bushkill Creek at Belfast, Northampton County. 



Hacker's Run near Ephrata, Cocalico Creek near Denver, Lan- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



caster County; Sugar Valley Run, Mifflin County; Wopsonomick 

 Valley Run and tributary from Kettle Reservoir, Blair County. 



Tributary of Allegheny River at Warren, Warren County; 

 Wehrle's, Cherry, McKenny, Rock, Allen's, Home, Burnhamer, 

 Besnham, Saltgiver, Broad Head, Elders, Mud Lick, Little, Simpson, 

 Groft's, Smitten, Pickering and Martin's Runs, Pine Creek and 

 Marion Branch, Grant and Pine Townships. Susquehanna Creek, 

 Cowanshanoc, branch of Big Mahoning Creek, branch of Crooked 

 Creek, McCormick's Run, branch of Ross Run, feeder to Crooked 

 Run, Indiana County; -Castleman River at Meyersdale, Somerset 

 County. 

 Exoglossum maxillingaa (Le Sueur). 



Abundant in the Schuylkill River near mouth of Mill Creek, 

 Montgomery County. This is the most eastern locality in Penn- 

 sylvania where the species has been secured. Also one from Mr. 

 O. H. Behr taken in the Loyalsock Creek near Lopez, Sullivan 

 County. 



Cyprinus oarpio Linnseus. 



Delaware River at Torresdale, Philadelphia County; Trout Run 

 near Ephrata and Witmer's Mills, Lancaster County; Erie, Erie 

 County. 

 Carpiodes thompsoni Agassiz. 



Erie. 



Catostomus oommersonnii (Lacepede). 



Crum Creek near Castle Rock, Hunter's Run tributary to Ridley 

 Creek, Chester County; Naylor's Run, Delaware County; Mill 

 Creek at Gladwyne, Beth Ayres, Walnut Hill, Valley Forge, Mont- 

 gomery County; Walton Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; 

 Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Etterton, Long Pond, Mill Creek 

 at Wycombe, Guinea Creek, Scott's Creek, Bucks County; tributary 

 of Bushkill Creek at Belfast, Northampton County. 



Trout Run near Ephrata, Lancaster County. 



Castleman River at Meyersdale, Somerset County; Meadow Run 

 near Ohio Pyle, Fayette County; Allegheny River at Foxburg, 

 Clarion County; Wehrle's, Home, Mud Lick, Smicksburg, Groft's, 

 Burnhamer, and Martin's Runs, Grant Township, tributary North 

 Branch of Two Lick Creek, Pine Creek and Marion Branch, Cowan- 

 shanock, branch of Crooked Creek, McCormick's Run and branch 

 of Ross Run, feeder to Crooked Run, Indiana County; Erie, Erie 

 County. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. 



Cocalico Creek near Denver, Lancaster County; McKenny Run 

 and tributary North Branch of Two Lick Creek, Indiana County; 

 Neshannock River at Newcastle, Lawrence County. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). 



Chester Creek near Cheney, Chester County; Walnut Hill, 

 Montgomery County; Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Mill 

 Creek at Wycombe, Guinea Creek, Bucks County; tributary of 

 Bushkill Creek at Belfast, Northampton County; Cocalico Creek 

 at Witmer's Mills, Lancaster County. 



Moxostoma aureolum (Le Sueur). 



Home, Elders, Little and Cowanshanoc Runs, branch of Big 

 Mahoning Creek, Grant and Pine Townships, Indiana County; 

 Erie, Erie County. 



Ameiurus lacustris (Walbaum). 



Erie. 



Ameiurus nebulosus ( Le Sueur). 



Chester Creek near Cheney, Chester County; Mill Creek and 

 quarry-holes at Gladwyne, Montgomery County; Long Neck at 

 Tinicum Island, Delaware County; Scott's Creek, and Mill Creek 

 at Wycombe, Bucks County ; Trout Run near Ephrata and Witmer's 

 Mills, Lancaster County; Cherry, McKenny and Simpson's Runs, 

 Indiana County. 



Noturus flavus Rafinesque. 



Two Lick Creek and Cherry Run, Indiana County. 

 Schilbeodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 



Big Neshaminy Creek at Etterton and near Long Pond, Bucks 

 County. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



Long Neck at Tinicum Island, Delaware County; Scott's Creek 

 and near Penn Valley, Bucks County; Cocalico Creek at Witmer's 

 Mills, Lancaster County. 



I have examined several large examples of E. masquinongy at Erie, 

 taken in Presque Isle Bay. 

 Umbra limi (Kirtland). 



Meadeville, Crawford County. 



Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 



Scott's Creek near Penn Valley and Guinea Creek, Bucks County. 

 Fundulus heteroclitus maorolepidotus (Walbaum). 

 Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb-, 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



Upper branch of Taylor's Run, Mill Run, tributary of Brandywine 

 Creek below Chadd's Ford Junction, Chester County; quarry-hole 

 near Gladwyne, Montgomery County; Neshamlny Creek near 

 Langhorne, Etterton and Long Pond, Mill Creek at Wycombe, 

 Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 



Delaware River at Philadelphia; Susquehanna River at Pequea, 

 Lancaster County, in May, 1903. 



Eucalia inconstans (Kirtland). 



Allegheny River at Foxburg, Clarion County. 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitchill). 



Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 



Pomoxis sparoides (Lacepede). 



Delaware River at Torresdale, Philadelphia County. 



Ambloplites rupestris (Rafinesque). 



Cherry and Simpson's Runs, Indiana County. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Delaware River at Torresdale, Philadelphia County. 



Lepomis auritus (Linneeus). 



Hunter's Run, upper branch of Taylor's Run and Mill Run, 

 tributaries of Ridley Creek, tributary of Brandywine below Chadd's 

 Ford Junction, Chester County; Naylor's Run, Delaware County; 

 Walton Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; Mill Creek and 

 Schuylkill River near Gladwyne, Walnut Hill, Montgomery County; 

 Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Bridgetown, Etterton, Long 

 Pond, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 



Eupomotis gibbOBUS (Linnaeus). 



Chester Creek near Cheney, Chester County; Long Neck at 

 Tinicum Island, Delaware County; Walnut Hill, Montgomery 

 County; Neshaminy Creek near Langhorne, Bridgetown, Long 

 Pond, Etterton, Scott's Creek, Guinea Creek, Bucks County; 

 Akron and Trout Runs near Ephrata, Cocalico Creek near Denver, 

 Swamp Bridge and Witmer's Mills, Lancaster County. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. 



Schuylkill River near mouth of Mill Creek, Montgomery County; 

 Neshaminy Creek near Bridgetown, Bucks County; Juniata River 

 at Newton Hamilton, Mifflin County; Erie, Erie County. I also 

 have examined many examples of M . salmoides at the last locality. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



Stizostedion vitreum (Mitchill). 



Erie, Erie County. 



Stizostedion canadense (Griffiths). 



Erie. 



Perca flavesoens (Mitchill). 



Scott's Creek, Bucks County; Erie, Erie County. 



Percina caprodes (Rafinesque). 



Erie. 



Hadropterus macrocephalus (Cope). 



Tributary to North Branch of Two Lick Creek and Mud Lick 

 Run, Indiana County. 



Boleosoma nigrum (Rafinesque). 



Allegheny River at Foxburg, Clarion County; McKenny, Simp- 

 son's, Allen's, Home, Bernham, Rock, Elders, Little, Smitten, Mud 

 Lick, Groft's, Hileman and Martin's Runs, Grant and Pine Town- 

 ships, tributary North Branch of Two Lick Creek, small branch of 

 Pickering Run, branch of Big Mahoning Creek, branch of Crooked 

 Creek, McCormick's Run and branch of Ross Run, feeder to Crooked 

 Run, Pine Creek and Marion Branch, Indiana County. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Reese's Run, Crum Creek near White Horse, Hunter's Run 

 tributary to Ridley Creek, upper branch of Taylor's Run, Mill Run, 

 Chester Creek near Cheney, tributary of Brandywine Creek below 

 Chadd's Ford Junction, Chester County; Naylor's Run, Delaware 

 County; Walton Run near Byberry, Philadelphia County; Mill 

 Creek at Gladwyne, Walnut Hill, Montgomery County; Mill Creek 

 at Flushing, Brookfield Run, Neshaminy Creek at Etterton, Long 

 Pond, near Langhorne, Mill Creek at Wycombe, Guinea Creek, 

 Bucks County ; tributary to Bushkill Creek at Belfast, Northampton 

 County. 



Cocalico Creek near Ephrata and Denver, Trout and Snokestown 

 Run, Lancaster County; Sugar Valley Run, Mifflin County; Wop- 

 sonomick Valley Run, Blair County. 



Etheostoma flabellare Rafinesque. 



McKenny, Cherry, Simpson's, Ross, Groft's, Smitten and Hileman 

 Runs, Pine Township, tributary North Branch Two Lick Creek, 

 feeder to Crooked Run, Indiana County. 



Boccus chrysops (Rafinesque). 



Erie, Erie County. 

 4 




50 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Morone amerioana (Gmelin). 



Scott's Creek, Bucks County. 



Aplodinotus grunniens Rafinesque. 



Erie. 



Cottus ictalops Rafinesque. 



Simpson's, Allen's, Smitten, McKenny and Cherry Runs, Sus- 

 quehanna Creek, Indiana County; Meadow Run near Ohio Pyle, 

 Fayette County. 



Cottus gracilis Heckel. 



Trout Run near Ephrata, Lancaster County. 



Lota maculosa (Le Sueur). 



Erie. 



Delaware. 



A few collections made during the past season, in Newcastle 

 County, are included below. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. 



West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill, Md.). 



Semotilus atromaoulatus (Mitchill). 



Montchanin. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



Granogue and West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Tributaries of the Brandywine near State line, Guyencourt, and 

 West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 



Rhinicb.tb.ys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Tributaries of the Brandywine near State line, Granogue, Guyen- 

 court and Montchanin. 



Catostomus commersonnii (Lacepede). 



Guyencourt and West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 



Lepomis auritus (Linnseus). 



West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linmeus). 



With preceding species. 

 Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Guyencourt and West Branch of Christiana Creek (near Iron Hill). 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 51 



Maryland. 



Most of my own collections were made in Cecil County, while a 

 few smaller ones are from Baltimore. In that city I have also 

 examined many market fishes, especially those alleged to have been 

 taken in Chesapeake Bay. Mr. E. G. Vanatta made collections at 

 Chestertown, and Messrs. Hermann Behr and T. D. Keim at 

 Jennings, in Garrett County. 



Petromyzon marinus Linnaeus. 



Abundant in the spring and in early June in Clearwater Brook 

 at Bacon Hill, tributary to the Elk River basin. In this stream I 

 have secured many young, and also in the Little Bohemia Creek. 

 Fishermen say lampreys are abundant in the Elk and North East 

 Rivers and at Rock Hall. 



Acipenser sturio Linnaeus. 



Scarce now in the Elk, North East and Susquehanna Rivers. 

 I have seen examples in the Baltimore markets, though none now 

 in our collections. 



Lepisosteus osseus (Linnaeus). 



A small mounted example recently examined, though not obtained 

 for our collection, was taken in the Elk River. This fish was rather 

 abundant at times about the fisheries along the North East River. 

 Pomolobus mediocris (Mitchill). 



Runs in the Elk and North East Rivers, also Little and Big Bohemia 

 Creeks in their lower reaches. A number of examples examined at 

 the fisheries and in the markets of Baltimore. This fish, also P. 

 cestivalis and the next, are taken at Rock Hall. 



Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 



Abundant in the Elk, Bohemia, North East and Susquehanna 

 Rivers, and ascending well above tide or in the small fresh branches. 

 The multitudes examined were from the Little Bohemia Creek, 

 Bohemia Mills, Big Bohemia Creek, Bohemia Bridge, Elk Neck, 

 North East, and from Chesapeake Bay (Baltimore markets). 

 Alosa sapidissima (Wilson.) 



Runs in the larger streams, as the Elk, Bohemia, North East and 

 Susquehanna Rivers, from all of which I have examined material. 

 I have collected, however, only young examples in the Little and 

 Big Bohemia Creeks, and at Elk Neck and North East. In the 

 fishing season many fine examples may be seen exposed in the Balti- 

 more and other markets. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 



Patapsco River at Baltimore, Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, 

 and Elk River at Elk Neck. 



Anchovia mitchilli (Valencienrfes). 



Tolchester Beach. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. 



North East, Stony Run, Clearwater Brook near Bacon Hill, 

 Conewingo Creek, Little and Big Bohemia Creeks, Elk Neck and 

 Chestertown. Numerous large ones sometimes seen in the Baltimore 

 markets. 



Hybognathus nuchalis regius (Girard). 



Patapsco River at Baltimore, North East, and Fishing Creek, a 

 tributary to Elk River near Elk Neck. Many examples, and all 

 obtained in tidal waters. 



Semotilus bullaris (Rafinesque). 



Octoraro Creek near Rowlandville, Cecil County; Peddler Run, 

 Harford County. 

 Semotilus atromaculatus (Mitchill). 



Stony Run and tributaries of the Octoraro Creek near Porter's 

 Bridge. Also found in the headwaters of the Castleman River 

 near Jennings. 



Leuciscus vandoisulus Valenciennes. 



Very abundant in Stony Run and its small tributaries, and also 

 found in the first tributary below emptying into the North East 

 River. Abundant in small tributaries of the Octoraro Creek near 

 Porter's Bridge. 



Abramis crysoleucas (Mitchill). 



Very common in the Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, Elk River 

 and its tributary Fishing Creek, and also the North East River. 

 My numerous examples from: Little Bohemia Creek, Bohemia 

 Mills, Bohemia Bridge, Elk Neck, North East, Stony Run, Cone- 

 wingo and in the Susquehanna River, Cecil County; Broad Creek, 

 Harford County. 



Notropis bifrenatus (Cope). 



A few in tributaries of the Big Bohemia Creek. 



Notropis procne (Cope). 



Frequent in Stony Run, Cecil County. 



Notropis hudsonius amarus (Clinton). 



North East River at North East, and the Octoraro Creek above 

 Rowlandville. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Notropis whipplii analostanus (Girard). 



A few in Peddler Run, Harford County, and Conewingo Creek 

 near Conewingo (estuary). Abundant at Gynn Falls near Baltimore, 

 and in Stony Run. 



Notropis cornutus (Mitchill). 



Abundant at Gynn Falls near Baltimore, Stony Run, Conewingo 

 Creek, and the Octoraro above Rowlandsville. 



Notropis photogenis amoenus (Abbott). 



Stony Run, and Conewingo Creek near Conewingo. 

 Rhinichthys atronasus (Mitchill). 



Many examples from Stony Run, first tributary of North East 

 River below Stony Run, clearwater Brook near Bacon Hill, tribu- 

 taries of Big Bohemia Creek, tributaries of the Octoraro Creek near 

 Porter's Bridge, Cecil County; Peddler Run, Harford County; 

 headwaters of the Castleman River near Jennings, Garrett County. 



Hybopsis kentuckiensis (Rafinesque). 



Very abundant in Stony Run, the Conewingo Creek, the Octoraro 

 Creek near Octoraro, above Rowlandville and near Porter's Bridge, 

 Cecil County; Broad Creek, Harford County; headwaters of the 

 Castleman River near Jennings, Garrett County. This species 

 delights in rapid or turbulent foamy streams, and is a fair pan fish. 



Exoglossum maxillingua (Le Sueur). 



Common in Stony Run, Conewingo Creek and the Octoraro Creek 

 above Rowlandville. . 



Cyprinus carpio Linnseus. 



Found in the Little Bohemia Creek and Piney Creek. I have also 

 examined many examples in the markets of Baltimore. 



Catostomus oommersonnii (Lac6pede). 



Abundant in Stony Run, Conewingo Creek near Conewingo, 

 the Big Bohemia Creek and at Jennings. 



Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. 



Stony Run and Gynn Falls. 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus (Mitchill). 



Common in Clearwater Brook near Bacon Hill, Stony Run and 

 the Big Bohemia Creek. 



Ameiurus catus (Linnaeus). 



Many examples from North East, Elk Neck, Chestertown, Big 

 and Little Bohemia Creeks. Many also seen in the Baltimore, 

 markets. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. r 



Ameiurus nebulosus (Le Sueur). 



I have examined many examples from the Big and Little Bohemia 

 Creeks and at North East, Cecil County. Others from Broad Creek, 

 Harford County. 



Schilbeodes gyrinus (Mitchill). 

 Once taken at Gynn Falls. 



Schilbeodes insignis (Richardson). 



Conewingo Creek near Conewingo. 



Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



Frequently found in Clearwater Brook, Cecil County, and Broad 

 Creek, Harford County. 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



I have found it in the Little Bohemia Creek. 



Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 



Abundant in Clearwater Brook, in the Big Bohemia Creek, and 

 at Elk Neck. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Patapsco River near Baltimore, Tolchester and Chestertown. 

 Fundulus heteroolitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Very abundant in all fresh tidal waters. My examples from the 

 Patapsco River, Tolchester, Chestertown, Elk Neck, Fishing Creek, 

 North East, and Big and Little Bohemia Creeks. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



Abundant in the Gunpowder River, Patapsco River, Big and Little 

 Bohemia Creeks, North East, Elk Neck and Fishing Creek. 



Cyprinodon variegatus Lacepede. 



Tolchester and Chestertown. 



Tylosurus marinus (Walbaum). 



North East River at North East, Elk River at Elk Neck, and 

 Little Bohemia Creek. 



Hemiramphus brasiliensis (Linnaeus). 



One purchased in the Baltimore market, said to have been taken 

 in Chesapeake Bay. 



Menidia beryllina (Cope). 



Abundant in the Patapsco River at Baltimore, the Big and Little 

 Bohemia Creeks, and the Elk River at Elk Neck. 

 Menidia menidia no tata (Mitchill). 



Abundant in the Patapsco River at Baltimore and at Tolchester. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Apeltes quadracus (Mitehill). 



Found in the Gunpowder River, the Big Bohemia River and 

 Fishing Creek, the latter a tributary of the Elk River below Elk 



Neck. 



Scomberomorus maculatus (Mitehill). 



Specimens examined in the Baltimore markets were said to have 

 been taken in Chesapeake Bay. 



Selene vomer (Linnaeus). 



Included as Mr. T. D. Keim assures me he has examined 4 examples 

 secured at Rock Hall several years ago. 



Pomatomus saltatrix (Linnaeus). 



Many examined in the Baltimore markets. 



Enneacanthus gloriosus (Holbrook). 



Little Bohemia Creek and Chestertown. 



Lepomis auritusI(Linnseus). 



North East Creek, Conewingo Creek, Octoraro Creek near Row- 

 landville, Little Bohemia Creek, Fishing Creek tributary to Elk 

 River near Elk Neck, and Stony Run. 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). 



Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, North East, Elk Neck, Fishing 

 Creek, and Stony Run. 



Micropterus dolomieu Lacepede. 



Little Bohemia Creek. 

 Perca flavescens (Mitehill). 



Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, North East, Fishing Creek near 

 Elk Neck, and Octoraro Creek near Rowlandville. Many examples 

 in the Baltimore markets. 



Boleosoma nigrum olmstedi (Storer). 



Patapsco River at Baltimore, Big Bohemia Creek, Stony Run, 

 Conewingo Creek, Octoraro Creek near Rowlandville, and tribu- 

 taries near Porter's Bridge. 

 Roccus lineatus (Bloch). 



Found in the Big and Little Bohemia Creeks at North East. 

 I have examined many in the Baltimore markets from Chesapeake 

 Bay. 



Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, Bohemia Mills, North East and 

 Elk Neck. Many Chesapeake Bay examples seen in the Baltimore 

 markets. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Archosargus probatocephalus (Walbaum). 



Several large ones seen in the Baltimore markets said to have 

 been taken in Chesapeake Bay, likewise many examples of the next 

 species. 



Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuvier). 

 Leiostomus xanthurus LacSpede. 



Many from the Big and Little Bohemia Creeks, Tolchester, 

 Patapsco River at Baltimore, and others in the Baltimore markets 

 from Chesapeake Bay. 



Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus). 



Many from Chesapeake Bay in the Baltimore markets. 



Tautoga onitis (Linnaeus). 



Young in the Patapsco River at Baltimore. 



Cottus ictalops (Rafinesque). 



Headwaters of the Castleman River at Jennings. 



Cottus gracilis Heckel. 



Stony Run. 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus (Walbaum). 



Several from Chesapeake Bay in the Baltimore markets. 



Achirus fasciatus Lacepfide." 



Big Bohemia Creek. 



Virginia. 3 



Several collections were made at Watchapreague, in Accomac 

 County, in May of 1911. The Academy is also indebted to Mr. 

 T. M. Milliner for additional material from this region. Besides 

 these I have examined many species in the Norfolk market and at 

 the fisheries at Virginia Beach in 1909. All with the * are from off 

 Cedar Island. 



' An interesting collection of fishes was obtained in the Cape Fear River 

 region ol North Carolina in May of 1908 by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. Fundulus nottii 

 (Ag.), Gambusia gracilis Heck, and Heterandria formosa Ag. are from the Green- 

 field mill-pond at Wilmington. The following are all from Southport. Anguilla 

 chrisypa Raf., Mugil cephalus Linn., Trachinotus carolinus (Linn.), Choenobryttus 

 gulosus (Cuv.), Lepomis punctatus (Val.), L. incisor (Val.), Eupomotis gibbosus 

 (Linn.), Micropterus salmoides (Lac), Perca flavescens (Mitch.), Centropristis 

 strialus (Linn.), Orthopristis chrysopterus (Linn.), Hcemulon plumieri (Lac), 

 Otrynter caprinus (Bean), Calamus leucosteus Jord., Diplodus holbrookii (Bean), 

 Cynoscion nebulosus (Cuv.), Bairdiella chrysura (Lac), Leiostomus xanthurus 

 Lac, Micropogon undulatus (Linn.) and Paralichthys lethostigmus Jord. Gilb. 

 Lepomis punctatus was previously only known from South Carolina to Florida. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



*Petromyzon marinus Linnaeus. 

 *Mustelus mustelus (Linnaeus): 

 *Raja erinacea Mitchill. 



Large examples of Acipenser sturio examined at Watchapreague 

 and Cedar Island, though none preserved. 



Anguilla chrisypa Rafinesque. 



Young found on Parmores Island and others, besides adults, in 

 Locustville Branch. 



*Pomolobus medioeris (Mitchill). 

 *Pomolobus pseudoharengus (Wilson). 

 *Alosa sapidissitna (Wilson). 



Many examples of Opisthonema oglinum examined at Virginia 

 Beach. 



*Brevoortia tyrannus (Latrobe). 

 Virginia Beach. 



Umbra pygmaea (De Kay). 



Common in upper still reaches of Locustville Branch. Esox 

 americanus was also found in the same place, though no examples 

 preserved. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Watchapreague Inlet and about Parmores Island. 



Fundulus beteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Watchapreague, Cedar and Parmores Islands, tidal reaches of 

 Locustville Branch and Virginia Beach. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



Locustville Branch just above tide. 



Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



I found it in small numbers in the little pools on Parmores Island, 

 associated with equal numbers of F. heteroclitus macrolepidotus. 

 Many were in high coloration. None were found associated with 

 Gasterosteus. I .also found this species abundant in fresh pools, 

 near the edge of the salt marsh, in the lower basin of Locustville 

 Branch. In this place they were associated with Cyprinodon. 

 Cyprinodon variegatus Lacepede. 



Cedar and Parmores Islands, and lower basin of Locustville 

 Branch. Virginia Beach. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



Common in fresh or brackish pools of Parmores Island. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Gambusia gracilis Heck-el. 



Found in fresh pools, near the sea, at Virginia Beach. Abundant 

 in the fresh-water ditches in the lower basin of Locustville Branch. 



Menidia menidia notata (Mitchill.) 



Watchapreague Inlet. 



Gasterosteus aculeatus Linnaeus. 



Very abundant in purely fresh-water lagoons on Parmores Island, 

 and found associated only with Cyprinodon. All were quite small, 

 and many of the males with bright scarlet axillary ventral membranes, 

 otherwise the coloration mostly olive-green. This is the most 

 southern locality at which I have obtained this species, and it is 

 also noteworthy that all the individuals were so dwarfed. 



Syngnathus fuscus Storer. 



Watchapreague Inlet. 



*Scomber scombrus Linnaeus. 



I have also examined many examples of the following in the 

 Norfolk markets: Sarda sarda, Scomberomorus maculatus, Seriola 

 lalandi, Pomatomus saltatrix, Seserinus paru, Poronotus triacanthus, 

 Lobotes surinamensis, Archosargus probatocephalus, Cynoscion regalis, 

 C. nebulosus, Scicenops ocellatus, Leiostomus xanthurus, Micropogon 

 undulatus, Pogonias cromis, and Paralichthys dentatus. Almost all 

 these were said to have been captured in the pounds in Hampton 

 Roads. At Virginia Beach I found: Sarda sarda, Trichiurus 

 lepturus, Seriola lalandi, Seserinus paru, Poronotus triacanthus, 

 Cynoscion regalis, C. nebulosus, Bairdiella chrysura, Leiostomus 

 xanthurus, Micropogon undulatus, Alutera schoepfii, Chilomycterus 

 schoepfi, and Lophius piscatorius. 



♦Pomatomus saltatrix (Linnaeus). 

 *Poronotus triacanthus (Peck). 

 Aphredoderus sayanus (Gilliams). 



Locustville Branch. 



Eupomotis gibbosus (Linnaeus). 



Locustville Branch. 



Morone americana (Gmelin). 



Locustville Branch. 



*Orthopristis ohrysopterus (Linnaeus). 



Parmores Island. 



*Stenotomus chrysops (Linnaeus). 

 *Lagodon rhomboides (Linnaeus). 




1912.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



"Cynoscion regalis (Schneider). 



Parmores Island. 



*Bairdiella cb.rysu.ra (Lacepede). 



Parmores Island. 



I have found Leiostomus xantkurus at Old Point Comfort. 



*Micropogon undulatus (Linnaeus). 

 *Menticirrhus americanus (Linnaeus). 



Parmores Island. 



Pagonias cromis and Sciamops ocellatus frequently taken off Cedar 

 Island and brought to Watchapreague, where I examined many. 



*Tautoga onitis (Linnaeus). 

 *Spheroides maculatus (Schneider). 



Parmores Island. 



♦Chilomycterus schoepfi (Walbaum). 



I have also found Alutera schoepfii at Hampton Roads. 



*Prionotus evolans strigatus (Cuvier). 

 ♦Lophopsetta maculata (Mitchill). 

 *Paralichthys dentatus (Linnseus). 

 *Opsanus tau (Linna?us). 



Also at Hampton Roads. 

 *Merluccius bilinearis (Mitchill). 

 *Lophius piscatorius Linnaeus. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



FIXATION OF SINGLE TYPE iLECTOTYPIC) SPECIMENS OF SPECIES OF 



AMERICAN OFvTHOPTERA. 1 



SECTION ONE. 

 BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The majority of present-day workers in systematic zoology are in 

 accord on matters tending toward fixity of specific names, one of the 

 most important of these being the limitation of the specific name to a 

 single type specimen in cases where the original author had extensive 

 series which he had considered typical, but of which no single type 

 individual was selected. It not infrequently happened in such 

 cases that two or more species were confused* by the author, and 

 the limitation of the name to one of the components is necessary for 

 intelligible work. 



In the distributional and taxonomic work on Orthoptera in which 

 the authors are engaged, the necessity for single type (lectotypic) 

 fixations has become imperative, and after due consideration and 

 examination of the type series and study of the context of the original 

 descriptions, we have made the following fixations. 



In the few cases where the specific names have already been 

 restricted or types already properly selected, such action has been 

 followed unreservedly unless the author restricting the name has ap- 

 plied it to a form not represented in the original cotypic series. In the 

 case of proper previous limitations of names we have selected types 

 in accord with such work. 



In the ensuing papers the species will be treated in groups, using 

 as divisions the titles of the various papers whose components are 

 considered in the subsequent pages. 



Although the selection of a single type was recommended by the 

 last International Entomological Congress, no rules have as yet been 

 adopted governing such selections. It seems to us to be obvious that 

 under the present conditions certain logical methods should be 

 followed in selecting the type, but not so rigidly that special cases 

 which are found should not receive special treatment. 



1 In papers where other than North American species are treated it has seemed 

 best for the unity of the work to fix such exotic types as well. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



In fixing the types of the species of Orthoptera described in the 

 papers treated below we follow the law of line priority, designating 

 from the original series a specimen from the first locality mentioned, 

 except where other factors are found to be of greater importance, 

 the most important of which may be stated as follows: 



1. Preference is given to the sex which shows the greater amount 

 of differentiation. 



2. A figured specimen is selected in cases where this specimen can 

 be located with certainty and no faulty work is involved. 



3. In cases where the first record or records given are too general, 

 doubtful or erroneous in character, a cotype from the first definite 

 and unquestionably authentic locality is selected. 



Where a specimen would be selected as type in accordance with 

 the above rules, but is found to be in a badly damaged condition or 

 known to be either destroyed or lost, preference in the selection will 

 be given the next available individual of the typical series. 



The nomenclature given will be that of the original description, as 

 these papers are not intended to be at all revisionary. 



I. "New North American Acridid^e, Found North of the Mex- 

 ican Boundary, " by Lawrence Bruner. (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. ; 

 Vol. 12, pp. 47-82, PI. I, 1889.) 



The specimens, on which the species described in the paper under 

 consideration were based, are now to be found almost wholly in the 

 United States National Museum and the Hebard Collection, the 

 junior author having recently acquired from Professor Bruner his 

 entire North American Collection of Orthoptera. The types them- 

 selves are divided between the two collections, as a small part of the 

 material originally belonged to the United States National Museum, 

 the rest to Professor Bruner. The author did not give the exact 

 location of any of the material, leaving it understood that part was 

 in his own collection and part in that of the National Museum. 



The labelling of specimens treated in this paper is not uniform, in 

 most cases the entire series of specimens of a new species was labelled 

 "TYPE" by the author, but in a few instances no type labels what- 

 ever were written. 



In the present paper we are unable to use the plate of figures, 

 except in the case of the unique figured c? Pedioscertetes pulchella, 

 owing to the fact that the author has given us no means of deter- 

 mining which specimen or specimens were used for figures, except 

 in the single case here stated. All the specimens treated in this 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



paper, except those which were subsequently sent to McNeill, and 

 the missing type of Trimerotropis thalassica, have been examined. 



Mesops cylindricus (p. 48). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 two localities. 



Single type here designated : d" ; Valentine, Nebraska (along the 

 north side of Keya Paha Creek) 2 , [August 10th] ; (L. Bruner) ; Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



Dracotettix monstrosus (p. 50). 



Based on two specimens of both sexes from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique cf ; Los Angeles, California, 

 March 5th; Coquillett; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



OCHRILIDIA (?) CRENULATA (p. 51). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 numerous localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; [Ft. Robinson], 3 northwest 

 Nebraska, [August, 1888]; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. 



OCHRILIDIA (?) CINEREA (p. 52). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from a 

 number of localities. 



Single type here designated: d"; Ft. McKinney, Wyoming, 

 [July, 1883]-; (L. Bruner) ; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Mermiria texana (p. 53). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 two localities. 



Single type here designated : d" ; El Paso, Texas, [November, 

 1887]; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Mermiria maculipennis (p. 54). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 two localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; San Antonio, Texas, June; 

 M. Newell; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



2 The use of parentheses here is to show such data as is contained in the original 

 description and not on the specimen; the use of brackets indicates information 

 found on the specimen but not contained in the original description. 



3 Vide Bruner in Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 140, 1910. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Syrbula acuticornis (p. 55). 



Based on three female specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Southwestern Texas; F. G. 

 Schaupp; Hebard Collection, ex Bmner. 



Eritettix variabilis (p. 56). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens [of both sexes] from 

 one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf; Silver City, New Mexico, 

 (May); C.H. Marsh; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Eritettix abortivus (p. 56). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 two localities. 



Single type here designated: cf; Washington County, Texas, 

 (April); (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



BOOTETTIX ARGENTATUS (p. 58). 



Based on "numerous specimens" of both sexes from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: <? ; 4 Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, 

 November; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Pedioscertetes pulchella (p. 60). 



Based upon a single pair from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique cf ; Birch Creek, Idaho, 

 August, 1883; L. Bruner; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



PSOLOESSA BUDDIANA (p. 61). 



Based on two female specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Carrizo Springs, Texas, June, 

 [1885]; A. Wadgymar; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



PSOLOESSA ? EUROTLE (p. 62). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 one locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Laramie River (just inside the 

 Colorado line), July, 1883; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. 



4 Owing to the fact that the specimens from the first localities given in the 

 original description have been discolored by immersion in alcohol, we have 

 selected as type a specimen from the first definite locality represented by perfect 

 material. 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Arphia saussureana (p. 63). 



Based on "a large series" of specimens of both sexes from one 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: d> ; Hills lying back of San Fran- 

 cisco, California, late October, [1887]; (L. Bruner, Koebele); Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



AlTLOCARA SCUDDERI (p. 63). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 many localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [Ft. Robinson], Nebraska, 

 [August, 1888]; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Mestobregma pulchella (p. 64). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 the Yellowstone Valley. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Glendive, Montana (below the 

 mouth of the Powder River), (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. 



CONOZOA TEXANA (p. 65). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 one locality. 



Type designated by McNeill, Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXIII, p. 

 406, 1901. 



"One male (type), El Paso, Texas, G. W. Dunn, collector; Bruner 

 Collection." 



This specimen, together with all others sent to McNeill for his 

 "Revision of the Genus Trimerotropis," has not been returned to the 

 collection from which it was borrowed. 



CONOZOA ALBOLINEATA (p. 66). 



Described from a single male specimen from Los Angeles, Cali- 

 fornia, Coquillett, collector; Bruner Collection. Sent to McNeill. 



CONOZOA KOEBELEI (p. 67). 



Described from a single male specimen from Placer County, 

 'California, September, Koebele, collector; Bruner Collection. Sent 

 to McNeill. 



Trimerotropis cyaneipennis (p. 68). 



Based on "numerous specimens both male and female" from one 

 locality. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Single type here designated : c? ; Near the mouth of Ogden 

 Canon, on the upper shore line of ancient Lake Bonneville, Salt Lake 

 Valley, Utah, [September, 1883]; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, 

 ex Bruner. 



Trimerotropis azurescens (p. 69). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 four localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Alkali Stage Station (Green 

 River), Wyoming, [Elevation 6,000 feet, July 27, 1877]; (S. H. 

 Scudder) ; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. This is the only specimen 

 in the U. S. N. M. or Bruner Collection at present with locality 

 agreeing exactly with any of those given in the original description. 



Trimerotropis bifasciata (p. 70). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of unstated sex from 

 one locality. 



Type designated by McNeill, Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXIII, p. 

 419, 1901. 



"One male, without locality, Bruner Collection." As the original 

 description includes but one locality, Los Angeles, California (Coquil- 

 lett), it is natural to suppose that this specimen marked type by 

 Bruner came from that locality. 



Trimerotropis californica (p. 71). 



Based on two males and one female from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: <? ; San Louis Valley, California; 

 Coquillett; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Trimerotropis modesta (p. 72). 



Based on two female specimens from one locality. 



Type designated by McNeill, Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXIII, p. 

 426, 1901. 



"One female, Silver City, New Mexico, Bruner's Type, Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner." 



Trimerotropis thalassica (p. 72). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 one locality. 



Single type here designated: c' ; Los Angeles, California, Septem- 

 ber-October; Koebele; U. S. N. M. Collection. Missing. 



Trimerotropis pacifica (p. 73). 



Described from a single male specimen from Los Angeles, Cali- 

 fornia, Coquillett, collector; Bruner Collection. Sent to McNeill. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Trimerotropis perplexa (p. 74). 



Based on four males and seven females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Bad lands five or six miles to 

 the north of Chadron, Nebraska, August, [1888]; (L. Bruner); 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



ClRCOTETTIX LAPIDICOLTTS (p. 75). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Salmon City, Idaho (Salmon 

 River Range west of the place), [August, 1883]; (L. Bruner); Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



ClRCOTETTIX SHASTANUS (p. 76). 



Described from a single male specimen from Hazel Creek, Shasta 

 County, California, August, 1885; Behrens; U. S. N. M. Col- 

 lection. 



(EDIPODA (?) OCCIDENTALS (p. 77). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated: d* ; High stony hilltops to the 

 southwest of San Francisco, California, late October, [1887]; (Koe- 

 bele, L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Thrinctjs (?) aridus (p. 78). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens of both sexes from 

 one locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Arid slopes back of Albuquerque, 

 New Mexico, May [22, 1883] ; (L. Bruner) ; Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. 



THRINCUS (?) MACULATUS (p. 79). 



Based on four female specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Needles, California; Wickham; 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Haldemanella robusta (p. 81). 



Based on two males and two females from one district. 



Single type here designated: cf ; [Southwestern] Arizona; G. W. 

 Dunn, Rivers; dried alcoholic specimen in Hebard Collection, 

 ex Bruner. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



II. "The North American Ceuthophili," by Samuel Hubbard 

 Scudder. (Proc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 

 Vol. XXX, pp. 17-113, 1894.) 



The specimens on which the species described in the present paper 

 were based were gathered together from many sources by Mr. 

 Scudder. The majority of these specimens became the property of 

 Mr. Scudder, so that in choosing the lectotypic specimens we find 

 twenty-six in the Collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology, all 

 but four being from the Scudder Collection. Of the remaining thirteen 

 species described from material not in the Scudder Collection the 

 lectotypes have been found to be in the following collections; nine 

 in the Hebard Collection, ex Bruner; two in the United States 

 National Museum Collection, and two are in the possession of H. 

 Garman, Agr. Exp. Sta., University of Kentucky. 



The labelling of specimens treated in this paper is rather uniform. 

 All of the specimens examined and recorded, with but few exceptions, 

 are labelled "Scudder's Type, 1894." The result is that such a 

 label signifies only that the specimen, if belonging to a species de- 

 scribed as new in the paper under consideration, is one of the typical 

 series. 



After each reference in the paper under consideration the collec- 

 tion to which the material belonged is given in parentheses, but 

 where no parentheses are to be found it is understood that the 

 material belonged to Mr. Scudder himself. In quite a few cases, 

 however, where there are no parentheses the material did not belong 

 to Mr. Scudder. After the publication of this paper a very complete 

 series was sent to Professor Bruner, all the species being represented 

 of which Mr. Scudder had more than two specimens. 



All but two of the specimens chosen as lectotypes in the present 

 paper have been examined by the authors. 



There are no figures in the paper now before us and no general 

 statement is made in regard to the sources of the material used or 

 the location of the types. 



Ceuthophilus variegatus (p. 31). 



Based on two pairs from three localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Matamoras, Tamaulipas, 

 Mexico; L. B. Couch; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus latebricola (p. 37). 



Described from four male and six female specimens from five 

 localities. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Single type here designated : d" ; Washington, District of Colum- 

 bia; Wright; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus grandis (p. 38). 



Described from one male and two females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : unique o 71 ; Chattanooga, Tennessee; 

 J. W. Martin; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus secretus (p. 39). 



Based on six males and two females from one locality. 

 Single type here designated : c? ; Dallas, Texas ; Boll ; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Ceuthophilus palmeri (p. 40). 



Described from fourteen pairs taken in three localities. 



Single type here designated : c? ; from darkest recesses of side 

 caverns of a bat cave, Georgetown, Williamson County, Texas; 

 E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus corticicola (p. 41). 



Based on five males and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : c? ; Dallas, Texas ; Boll ; Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 5 



Ceuthophilus varicator (p. 42). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique c? ; Waco, Texas, July 13; 

 Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus seclusus (p. 45). 



Based on three males and seven females from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Dallas County, Iowa, August 6; 

 J. A. Allen; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus terrestris (p. 46). 



Based on a series of eleven males and five females from thirteen 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: cf; Nahant, Massachusetts ; 

 A. Agassiz; Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus celatus (p. 48). 



Described from three males and five females from five localities. 



5 There are no males of this species in the Scudder Collection. 



6 All other males in the series of specimens on which the description was 

 based are much less perfect. » 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Shasta County, California; 

 Behrens; [1885]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 7 



Ceuthophilus arizonensis (p. 52). 



Based on three males and nine females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : cf ; Prescott Mountain District, 

 Central Arizona 8 ; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus uniformis (p. 53). 



Described from five males and nine females taken in three localities. 

 Single type here designated : cf ; Plains of Northern New Mexico, 

 eastern slope, October 14; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 9 



Ceuthophilus heros (p. 54). 



Described from three males and two females from North Carolina. 

 Single type here designated:, cf ; North Carolina, in old hollow 

 tree; H. K. Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus c^ecus (p. 60). 



Based on one male and two females from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : unique cf ; Lexington, Kentucky, 

 June 28; S. Garman; property of H. Garman, Agr. Exp. Sta., Uni- 

 versity of Kentucky. 



Ceuthophilus nigricans (p. 61). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Tyrone, Kentucky, 

 April 23; S. Garman; property of H. Garman, Agr. Exp. Sta., 

 University of Kentucky. 



Ceuthophilus fusiformis (p. 62). 



Described from a unique male; Lincoln, Nebraska; (L. Bruner); 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus sallei (p. 63). 



Described from a series of one male and seven females from a 

 single locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; New Orleans, Louisiana; 

 Auguste Salle; Scudder Collection. 



7 There are no adults of this species in the Scudder Collection. 



8 Owing to the name given by Scudder to this species, it would seem best not 

 to choose as lectotype a specimen from the first locality mentioned in the original 

 description. 



9 There are no specimens of this species in the Scudder Collection with more 

 data than ''Colorado"; these cannot with certainty be considered to be of 

 the typical series. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Ceuthophilus meridionalis (p. 66). 

 Based on a unique male; Chihuahua, Mexico; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus neglectus (p. 67). 



Based on thirty-one males and twenty-nine females from thirteen 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: o 71 ; Ithaca, New York; Comstock; 

 Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus tenebrarum (p. 70). 



Described from seven males and four females from five localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf 10 ; Bee Spring, Kentucky, June; 

 Sanborn; Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus bicolor (p. 72). 



Described from a unique male; Bee Spring, Kentucky, June 14; 

 F. G. Sanborn; Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus valgus (p. 74). 



Based on six males and three females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: o 71 ; Colorado, Elevation 7,000- 

 8,000 feet; H. K. Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus occultus (p. 77). 



Described from one male and two females from Georgia. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Georgia; Morrison; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Ceuthophilus alpinus (p. 78). 



Based on two pairs from two localities. 



Single type here designated : cf ; South Park, Colorado, Elevation 

 8,000-10,000 feet, August 11-16, [1877]; S. H. Scudder; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Ceuthophilus bruneri (p. 79). 



Based on four males and five females from four localities. 



Single type here designated : 9 ,* Lincoln, Nebraska, [September, 

 1888]; (L. Bruner); Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus mexicanus (p. 82). 



Described from six males from two localities. 



Single type here designated: c 71 ; San Pedro, Coahuila, Mexico, 

 May 20; Scudder Collection. 



10 This male is in much the most satisfactory condition of the specimens in the 

 type series. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



Ceuthophilus crassus (p. 85). 

 Based on one male and three females from an unknown locality. 

 Single type here designated : unique cf ; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus pinguis (p. 86). 



Based on four males from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Eagle Pass, Texas; C. O. Schott; 

 Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus inquinatus (p. 87). 



Based on two males and one female from two localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Fairbury, Nebraska, [September, 

 1892]; Dr. Eaton; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus discolor (p. 88). 



Described from a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; West Point, Nebraska, 

 [September, 1880]; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus vinculatus (p. 91). 



Described from four males and one female from two localities. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Fort Benton, Montana, Northern 

 Pacific Railroad Survey below Lake Jessie; Dr. Suckley; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Ceuthophilus testaceus (p. 92). 



Based on two pairs from three localities. 



Single type here designated : cf ; West Point, Nebraska, [October] ; 

 from L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus latipes (p. 95). 



Described from a unique male; Sierra de San Miguelito, Mexico; 

 E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. (This specimen is half destroyed.) 



Ceuthophilus henshawi (p. 97). 



Described from seven males and six females from six localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Sausalito {nee Sanzalito), 

 California; H.K.Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



Ceuthophilus devius (p. 99). 



Described from a pair from one region. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Explorations of Upper 

 Missouri and Yellowstone under Lt. Warren, Montana; F. V. Hayden; 

 Scudder Collection. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Ceuthophilus neomexicanus (p. 100). 



Based on four males and one female from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Fort Wingate, New Mexico; 

 Shufeldt; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Phrixocnemis truculentus (p. 103). 



Based on two males and one female from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: d" ; Peru, Nebraska; Professor 

 Taylor (nee Townsend) ; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Phrixocnemis validus (p. 105). 



Based on a unique male; California; H. Edwards; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Phrixocnemis bellicosus (p. 106). 



Based on a pair from Colorado. 



Single type here designated: unique c? ; (probably Ute Pass,) 

 Colorado, elevation 7,000 feet; H. K. Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



III. "Revision of the Orthopteran Group Melanopli (Acri- 

 diid,e), with Special Reference to North American 

 Forms," by Samuel Hubbard Scudder. (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 Vol. 20, pp. 1-421, Plates I-XXVI, 1897.) 



The greater portion of the material studied in the paper before us 

 was the property of Mr. Scudder; but a great number of specimens, 

 many of species which were not contained in his collection were 

 loaned to him for study by Professor Bruner and still others were 

 sent to him for examination by the United States National Museum. 

 Others furnished material for this revision, but in such small quanti- 

 ties that the paper may be said to be based almost wholly upon the 

 material in the three mentioned collections. A very fair idea of the 

 relative importance of these collections in the present work may be 

 had from the number of lectotypes chosen from each of the collections 

 in the present paper. Of these types there are fifty-seven in the 

 Collection of the Museum of Comparative Zoology (all but three 

 being from the Scudder Collection), thirty-eight in the Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner, nineteen in the United States National Mu- 

 seum, one in the McNeill Collection, one in the University of Kansas 

 Collection, and one in the Brunner von Wattenwyl Collection. 



The choice of the types in the paper under consideration has been 

 greatly facilitated by the fact that in almost every case one of the 

 best and most suitable specimens in the typical series is figured, the 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



locality at which the specimen figured was taken is given in the 

 explanation of the plate, and each specimen so utilized bears the 

 label " drawn" in Mr. Scudder's handwriting. It is practically 

 certain that these are the specimens which Mr. Scudder would have 

 chosen as the single types of his new species had such action at that 

 time been customary. 



Practically every specimen of the group used in the preparation 

 of this work was labelled " Scudder's Type," consequently such a 

 label signifies solely that the specimen, if belonging to a species there 

 described as new, belonged to the typical series. 



In Mr. Scudder's paper the collection to which the material belongs 

 is given in parentheses after each reference, but where no parentheses 

 are to be found it is understood that the material belonged to Mr. 

 Scudder himself. 



All but three of the specimens chosen as lectotypes in the present 

 paper have been examined by the authors. 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus (p. 15). 



Based on one pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ,' Jacksonville, 

 Duval County, Florida, [August, 1886]; Ashmead; Hebard Col- 

 lection, ex Bruner. 



Netrosoma fusiformis (p. 17). 



Based on three male and fourteen female specimens from one 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Montelovez, Coahuila 

 [Chihuahua in error], Mexico, September 20; E. Palmer; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Netrosoma nigropleura (p. 18). 



Based on two males from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Lerdo, Durango, 

 Mexico; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Ph.edrotettix angustipennis (p. 22). 



Based on six specimens of each sex from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured d" ; Mount Alvarez, San 

 Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



CONALCEA MIGUELITANA (p. 24). 



Based on two male and three female specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated : figured cf ; Sierra de San Miguelito, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



CoNALC^EA TRUNCATIPENNIS (p. 25). 



Based on a single female specimen; Saltillo, Nuevo Leon, Mexico, 

 March 21-28; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



CONALCEA NEOMEXICANA (p. 26). 



Based on a unique male: figured; Silver City, Grant County, 

 New Mexico; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Barytetttx crassus (p. 28). 



Based on one male specimen: figured; San Jose del Cabo, Lower 

 California; G. Eisen; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Barytettix peninsula (p. 28). 



Based on a unique female; Lower California; G. Eisen; Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



Phaulotettix compressus (p. 30). 



Based on a single male: figured; Montelovez, Coahuila, Mexico, 

 September 20; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Cephalotettix parvulus (p. 31). 



Based on two males from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Otoyac, Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico, Elevation 2,700 feet, December; L. Bruner; Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



Rhabdotettix concinnus (p. 33). 



Based on one male and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: unique figured d 1 ; Waco, McLennan 

 County, Texas, October 4, Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Rhabdotettix palmerl (p. 34). 



Based on eight male and twelve female specimens from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Montelovez, Coahuila, 

 Mexico, September 22; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Cyclocercus bistrigata (p. 37). 



Based on one male and four females from three localities. 

 Single type here designated : unique figured d 1 ; Venis Mecas, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico, June 6; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Cyclocercus accola (p. 38). 



Based on two males and a single female from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : figured d 1 ; Corpus Christ! Bay, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



Nueces County, Texas, December 11-20; E. Palmer; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Cyclocercus valga (p. 39). 



Based on a unique male: figured; Sierra Nola, Tamaulipas, 

 Mexico, December 3-6; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



SlNALOA BEHRENSII (p. 40). 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf; Sinaloa, Mexico; 

 Koels; from Behrens; Scudder Collection. 



Paraidemona mimica (p. 43). 



Based on four males and five females from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured c? ; Uvalde, Texas, last 

 week of July; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Campylacantha similis (p. 52). 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured c? ; Lerdo, Durango, 

 Mexico, November; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



EOTETTIX SIGNATUS (p. 54). 



Based on a single male: figured; East Florida; W. H. Ashmead; 

 McNeill Collection. 



Hesperotettix meridionalis (p. 59). 



Based on one male and two female specimens from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: unique figured <? ; Guanajuato, 

 Mexico; A. Duges; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Hesperotettix festivus (p. 60). 



Based on sixty-six males and fifty-eight females from five localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Salt Lake Valley, Utah, 

 Elevation 4,300 feet, August 1-4, [1877]; Scudder; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



Hesperotettix pacificus (p. 61). 



Based on two male and eight female specimens from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf 1 ; Los Angeles [County], 

 California; Koebele; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Hesperotettix curtipennis (p. 62). 

 Based on two females from one locality. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Colorado, [1884]; Morrison; 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Hesperotettix pratensis (p. 64). / 



Based on forty males and sixty-eight females from thirty localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Dallas, Texas, July 18; 



Boll; Scudder Collection. 



iEoLOPLUS TENUIPENNIS (p. 70). 



Based on a single male: figured; Fort Grant, Graham County, 

 Arizona; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



^EOLOPLUS ELEGANS (p. 71). 



Based on one male: figured; Las Cruces, Donna Ana County, 

 New Mexico, August 8, [1893]; T. D. A. Cockerell; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



iEoLOPLTJS REGALIS Sc." (p. 71). 



Nee Caloptenus regalis Dodge or Melanoplus regalis Bruner. 



New name, JEoloplus bruneri Caudell (Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., 

 Vol. VIII, p. 134, 1906). 



Based on five males and forty-one females from seven localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Lakin, Kearny County, 

 Kansas, elevation 3,000 feet, July-September; Scudder Collection. 



iEoLOPLUS CALIFORNICUS (p. 73). 



Based on one male and four female specimens from California. 

 Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; California; 

 Burrison; from Henshaw; Scudder Collection. 



iEoLOPLUS UNIFORMIS (p. 77). 



Based on a pair from two localities. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Fort Whipple, 

 Yavapai County, Arizona; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



iEoLOPLUS ARIZONENSIS (p. 78). 



Based on five males and four females from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Fort Whipple, Yavapai 

 County, Arizona; Scudder Collection. 



iEoLOPLUS OCULATUS (p. 79). 



Based on one male: figured; Mohave, Arizona; Wickham; 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Bradynotes caurus (p. 83). 



Based on two male and six female specimens from three localities. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Yakima River opposite 

 Ellensburg, Kittitas County, Washington, July 8-9; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



Bradynotes expleta (p. 84). 



Based on two males and one female from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Easton, Kittitas County, 

 Washington; Scudder Collection. 



Bradynotes pinguis (p. 85). 



Based on five males and two females from two localities. 



Single type here designated 11 : cf; Reno, Washoe County, 

 Nevada, [June 23, 1890]; Hillman; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Bradynotes referta (p. 88). 



Based on two males and three female specimens from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : figured cf ; Soldier, Logan County, 

 Idaho; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Bradynotes satur (p. 89). 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; Placer County, 

 California, September; [Koebele]; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



PODISMA VARIEGATA (p. 101). 



Based on two males and one female from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Ithaca, Tomkins County, 

 New York, elevation about 400 feet, November; J. H. Comstock; 

 Scudder Collection. 



PODISMA NUBICOLA (p. 102). 



Based on ten male and seven female specimens from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Mount Lincoln, Park 

 County, Colorado, above timber, elevation 11,000-13,000 feet, 

 August 13, [1877]; S. H. Scudder; Scudder Collection. 



PODISMA ASCENSOR (p. 107). 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; American Fork 

 Canyon, Utah; A. S. Packard; Scudder Collection. 



11 As the original locality of the figured specimen is in doubt, we use in this 

 case the first exact record of locality given. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



PODISMA PARNASSICA (p. 113). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured d* ; Mt. Parnassus, 

 Greece; Brunner von Wattenwyl Collection. 



PODISMA DAIRISAMA (p. 114). 



Based on a pair from Japan. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cT ; Japan; U. S. 

 N. M. Collection. Material can not be found. 



Paratylotropidia brunneri (p. 118). 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Dakota; Hebard 

 Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus marculentus (p. 139). 



Based on thirty-two male and forty-two female specimens from 

 eight localities. 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Sierra de San Miguelito, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus sonor^e (p. 143). 



Based on one male and four females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Sonora, Mexico; 

 A. Schott; Mexican Boundary Survey; U. S. N. M. Collection. 

 Material cannot be found. 



Melanoplus cuneatus (p. 147). 



Based on three males from three localities. 



Single type here designated : figured d? ; Silver City, Grant 

 County, New Mexico; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus simplex (p. 150). 



Based on two males and one female from Colorado. 



Single type here designated ; figured <? ; Colorado, elevation 

 5,500 feet; Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus rileyanus (p. 151). 



Based on six males and seventeen females from four localities. 



Single type here designated : figured d" ; Los Angeles County, 

 California, (May, September); Coquillett; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus flavescens (p. 155). 



Based on a single male : figured; San Diego [County], California; 

 Coquillett; U. S. N. M. Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Melanoplus pictus (p. 156). 



Based on a unique male: figured; Bradshaw Mountain, Arizona. 

 June 21, [1892]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus elongatus (p. 160). 



Based on five male and four female specimens from five localities. 

 Single type here designated: figufed c? ; Bledos, San Luis Potosi, 

 Mexico, October; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus bruneri (p. 164). 



Based on twenty-three males and twenty-five females from twelve 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf; Fort McLeod, Alberta, 

 Canada, August [1882]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus excelsus (p. 166). 



Based on four male and five female specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Mt. Lincoln, Park 

 County, Colorado, above timber, elevation 11,000-13,000 feet, 

 August 13, [1877]; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus utahensis (p. 167). 



Based on a unique male; figured; Salt Lake [Valley], Utah, 

 August 30; L. Bruner; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus alaskanus (p. 169). 



Based on two males and one female from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Alaska; T. C. Menden- 

 hall; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus affinis (p. 171). 



Based on six males and four females from eight localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured c? ; Salt Lake Valley, Utah, 

 August 30; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus intermedius (p. 172). 



Based on fifteen male and twenty-three female specimens from 

 five localities. 



Single type here designated: second 12 figured c? ; Yellowstone, 

 Montana, August, [1888]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



12 This specimen was chosen as type rather than tha first figured, owing to the 

 fact that the specimen is in the best condition. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanoplus defectus (p. 177). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured d" ; Grand Junction, 

 Mesa County, Colorado, June, [1893]; L. Bruner; Hebard Col- 

 lection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus diminutus (p. 19(5). 



Based on five males and nine females from three localities. 



Single type here designated : figured <? ; Monterey, Calif ornia, 

 October 19, next seashore; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus consanguineus (p. 192). 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured d" ; [Sonoma 13 ] 

 County, California, October; [Koebele]; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus sierranus (p. 193). 



Based on twenty-eight male and twenty-three female specimens 

 from three localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d 1 ; Truckee, Nevada 

 County, California, October 10; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus ater (p. 194). 



Based on two males and three females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d" ; San Francisco, Cali- 

 fornia, November, [1887]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus virgatus (p. 199). 



Based on eleven males and twelve females from six localities. 



Single type here designated 14 : cf ; Siskiyou County, California, 

 July; Riley; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus uniformis (p. 201). 



Described from nine male and eight female specimens from five 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Sacramento County, 

 California; Coquillett; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



13 Sacramento County instead of Sonoma County has been given by mistake 

 in the original description, and for the same specimen, Sonora County in the 

 plate reference. 



14 As the figured specimen of this species is probably lost, having been sent to 

 McNeill, we have chosen a specimen from the first definite locality given as the 

 single type. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Melanoplus angelicus (p. 202). 



Described from two male specimens from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Los Angeles, California; 

 Coquillett; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus impudicus (p. 204). 



Based on one male and two female specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Georgia; Morri- 

 son; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus nitidus (p. 207). 



Based on a pair from two localities. 



Single type here designated : unique figured c? ; Tepic, Jalisco, 

 Mexico, November; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus indigens (p. 211). 



Described from a single male: figured; Salmon City, Lemhi 

 County, Idaho, August, [1883]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus gillettei (p. 215). 



Based on two males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Rabbit Ears Pass, 

 Colorado, elevation about 10,000 feet, July 20; C. P. Gillette; 



Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus artemisle (p. 217). 



Based on four male and ten female specimens from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured c? ; Salmon City, Lemhi 

 County, Idaho, August, [1888]; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus cancri (p. 219). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Cape St. Lucas, 

 Lower California; J. Xantus; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus reflexus (p. 221). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured o* ; Ciudad del 

 Maiz, San Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus meridionalis (p. 223). 



Based on three males and eight females from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured d" ; Mount Alvarez, San 

 Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer: Scudder Collection. 

 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanoplus militaris (p. 224). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; Soldier, Logan 

 County, Idaho; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus gladstoni (p. 229). 



Based on eighteen males and nine females from five localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Medicine Hat, Assiniboia, 

 September, [1882]; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus palmeri (p. 230). 



Based on four specimens of each sex from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Fort Whipple, Yavapai 

 County, Arizona; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus walshii (p. 235). 



Based on one male and seven female specimens from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: 15 9 ; Rock Island, Illinois; B. D. 

 Walsh; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus gracilipes (p. 238). 



Based on three males and one female from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Los Angeles, California: 

 Coquillett; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus geniculatus (p. 239). 



Described from a pair from Mexico. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Mexico; from 

 W. S. Blatchley; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus tenuipennis (p. 244). 



Based on three males and five females from five localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Los Angeles, California; 

 Coquillett; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus missionum (p. 246). 



Based on two males and one female from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Los Angeles [County]. 

 California, [July]; Coquillett; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus fusctpes (p. 247). 



Based on six male and four female specimens from five localities. 



15 The unfigured female from Walsh is chosen as single type in accord with 

 Scudder's notes. We have, however, examined the eight specimens and find 

 them to be the same species. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; between San Luis 

 Obispo and San Simeon Bay, California; E. Palmer; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Melanoplus scitulus (p. 249). 



Based on two males and one female from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Mount Alvarez, San 

 Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus inornatus (p. 254). 



Based on one male and two females from probably two localities. 

 Single type here designated: 16 9 ; Montelovez, Coahuila, Mexico, 

 (September 20); E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus viridipes (p. 255). 



Based on twelve males and thirteen females from six localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Moline, Rock Island 

 County, Illinois; [June 5, 1888]; McNeill; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus decorus (p. 257). 



Based on two males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : figured d 71 ; Pungo Bluff (Dingo 

 Bluff sic), North Carolina, November 15, [1876]; Parker [and] 

 Maynard; Scudder Collection.. 



Melanoplus attenuatus (p. 259). 



Based on three male specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d" ; Smithville. Brunswick 

 County, North Carolina, November 22, [1876]; [Parker and] May- 

 nard; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus amplectens (p. 260). 



Based on a single male: figured; Bee Spring, Edmonson County, 

 Kentucky, June 14-15; F. G. Sanborn; Mus. Comp. Zool. Col- 

 lection. 



Melanoplus saltator (p. 261). 



Based on ten male and fourteen female specimens from four 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d" ; Portland, Multnomah 

 County, Oregon; Packard; Scudder Collection. 



16 In this instance the unique figured male was sent to McNeill; the specimen 

 had no data. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanoplus juvencus (p. 266). 



Described from a single male: figured; no data on specimen 

 marked figured, in original description "Fort Reed, Orange County, 

 Florida, April 8; Comstock" is given. Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus alleni (p. 273). 



Based on two male specimens from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Crawford County, Iowa; 

 July 13-24; J. A. Allen; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus snowii (p. 274). 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured d" ; Magdalena, 

 Socorro County, New Mexico, July; F. H. Snow; University of 

 Kansas Collection. 



Melanoplus propinquus (p. 285). 



Based on seventy-seven males and eighty-seven females from 

 thirteen localities. 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Fort Reed, Orange 

 County, Florida, April 23, [1876]; J. H. Comstock; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



Melanoplus monticola (p. 290). 



Based on two pairs from a single locality. 

 ' Single type here designated : figured d" ; Sierra Blanca, Colorado, 

 above timber, elevation 12,000-13,000 feet, August 29, 1877; 

 S. H. Scudder; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus bispinosus (p. 292). 



Based on three males and two females from three localities. 



Single type here designated : 17 cf ; Tiger Mills, Burnet County, 

 Texas; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus terminalis (p. 293). 



Based on five males from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d" ; Gulf Coast of Texas; 

 Aaron; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus cyanipes (p. 295). 



Based on fifteen male and nine female specimens from four localities. 



17 A male from the first definite locality is chosen because the figured specimen 

 from the Bruner Collection has been destroyed. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Pasadena, Los Angeles 

 County, California, October 23; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus complanatipes (p. 298). 



Based on two males and three females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cT ; Cape St. Lucas, Lower 

 California; J. Xantus; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus canonicus (p. 300). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Grand Canyon 

 of the Colorado, Arizona, July 10, [1892]; Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. 



Melanoplus comptus (p. 302). 



Based on two males from different localities. 



Single type here designated : figured <? ; Sidney, Cheyenne 

 County, Nebraska, August 25; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus coccineipes (p. 303). 



Based on twenty-eight males and thirty-one females from seventeen 

 localities. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Sand Hills, Nebraska, 

 July; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus impiger (p. 306). 



Based on sixteen males and thirty-six females from nine localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Barber County, Kansas; 

 Cragin; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus corpulentus (p. 313). 



Based on nineteen male and fifteen female specimens from seven 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Sierra de San Miguelito, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus conspersus (p. 315). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; Southwest 

 Nebraska; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus compactus (p. 316). 



Based on two pairs from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Dakota; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanoplus variabilis (p. 319). 



Based on two pairs from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; City of Mexico, Mexico, 

 November, [1887]; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus lepidus (p. 321). 



Based on six males and seven females from three localities. 



Single type here designated : figured c? ; Truckee, Nevada 

 County, California, October 10; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus inops (p. 329). 



Described from a unique male: figured; Florida; Pridday; 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus paroxyoides (p. 331). 



Based on three males and four females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d\; Key West, Florida; 

 Morrison; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus alpinus (p. 333). 



Described from thirteen males and eleven females from three 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Henry Lake, Idaho, 

 August; L. Bruner; IT. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus confusus (p. 339). 



Based on one male and three females from two localities. 



Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; Munsons Hill 

 (Kentucky?), July 12; Mus. Comp. Zool. Collection. 



Melanoplus furcatus (p. 358). 



Based on one pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cT ; Jacksonville, 

 Duval County, Florida; Pridday; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus thomasi (p. 368). 



Based on a unique male: figured; Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, 

 November; L. Bruner; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus olivaceus (p. 370). 



Described from three males and two females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Los Angeles, California, 

 July, [1886]; Coquillett; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus arboreus (p. 372). 



Described from six males and two females from three localities. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Dallas, Texas; Boll; 

 Scudder Collection. 



PCECILOTETTIX SANGUINEUS (p. 387). 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Bradshaw Mountain, 

 Arizona, June 21; A. B. Cordley; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



POECILOTETTIX COCCINATUS (p. 389). 



Based on one male and three females from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated : unique figured cf ; Los Angeles 

 [County], California, [July]; Coquillett: U. S. N. M. Collection. . 



IV. "Supplement to a Revision of the Melanopli," by 

 Samuel Hubbard Scudder. (Proc. Davenport Academy of 

 Nat. Sci., Davenport, Iowa. Vol. VII, pp. 157-205, plates 

 VII-IX, 1899.) 



In the paper here considered we find all but four of the species 

 described, with the specimens which should be chosen as lectotypes, 

 in the Scudder Collection; of the four remaining, the lectotypes of 

 two should be chosen from the Morse Collection, one from the 

 Hancock Collection, and one from the Collection of C. F. Baker; 

 the last two alone have not been personally examined by the 

 authors. 



The method followed is the same as in the Revision of the 

 Melanopli, where figures are given in the present paper; so that the 

 choice of the lectotype is likewise more easy and satisfactory than 

 usual. 



Although the first sets of all the material collected on the Pacific 

 Coast in 1897 by Professor Morse and described in this paper by 

 Mr. Scudder were to go to the author, the large series of many species 

 remaining are all the property of Professor Morse. 



PODISMA POLITA (p. 158). 



Based on nineteen males and eight females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : figured d 71 ; Divide (nee Cottage 

 Grove), Lane County, Oregon, September 12, [1897]: A. P. Morse; 

 Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus blandus (p. 161). 



Based on seven males from one locality. 



Single type here designated : figured d" ; summit of Mount 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Wilson {nee Altadena), Los Angeles County, California, July 28, 

 [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus incisus (p. 163). 



Described from a unique male; Fort Collins, Larimer County, 

 Colorado, August 11; C. F. Baker; C. F. Baker Collection. 



Melanoplus femur-nigrum (p. 165). 



Based on thirteen males and one female from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; San Francisco Moun- 

 tains, near Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona, July 30, [1897]; 

 Dr. J. L. Hancock; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus varicus (p. 168). 



Described from fourteen males and six females from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Tehachapi, Kern County, 

 California, August 2, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus immunis (p. 170). 



Described from two males and one female from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Mary's Peak, Benton County, 

 Oregon, September 16, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus acutus (p. 171). 



Described from two males and one female from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Brown's Valley, Traverse 

 County, Minnesota, October 26; 0. Lugger; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus usitatus (p. 172). 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : unique cf ; Corvallis, Benton 

 County, Oregon, June 9, [1895]; A. B. Cordley; Morse Collection. 



Melanoplus pinctus (p. 175). 



Based on seven pairs from three localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; San Diego, California, 

 July 22, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus truncatus (p. 177). 



Described from six males and one female from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; San Francisco Moun- 

 tains, ([near] Flagstaff), Coconino County, Arizona, July 31, [error 

 pro 30], [1897]; Dr. J. L. Hancock; Scudder Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Melanoplus phcetaliotiformis (p. 179). 



Described from nineteen males and fourteen females from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Gazelle, Siskiyou County, 

 California, September 5, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus incultus (p. 181). 



Described from four males and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured c? ; foothills five miles west 

 of Fort Collins, Colorado, July 10; -C. F. Baker; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus franciscanus (p. 183). 



Described from forty-eight males and twenty-one females from a 

 single locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; San Francisco Moun- 

 tains ([near] Flagstaff), Coconino County, Arizona, July 30, [1897]; 

 Dr. J. L. Hancock: Hancock Collection. 



Melanoplus ablutus (p. 185). 



Based on two males and nine females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Wawona, Mariposa 

 County, California, August 13, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Melanoplus nanus (p. 187). 



Based on twenty-seven males and twenty-two females from four 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Berkeley, Alameda 

 County, California, August 21, [error pro 20], [1897]; A. P. Morse; 

 Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus ligneolus (p. 188). 



Based on eight pairs from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Benicia, Solano County, 

 California, August 26, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus dealbatus (p. 190). 



Based on five males and thirteen females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Ceres, Stanislaus 

 County, California, August 17, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



Melanoplus pilatus (p. 192). 



Based on one pair from two localities. 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Single type here designated: unique cf 18 ; mouth of Big South 

 River, Larimer County, Colorado, elevation 8,000 feet, August 3; 

 C. F. Baker; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus ascensus (p. 196). 



Based on five males from two localities. 



Single type here designated : figured c? ; Mount Shasta, Northern 

 California, just below the forest line, September 2, [1897]; A. P. 

 Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Melanoplus validus (p. 197). ■ 



Based on forty-three males and females from three localities. 



Single type here designated : figured d 71 ; Grant's Pass, Josephine 

 County, Oregon, September 8, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



Melanoplus algidus (p. 199). 



Based on thirty-six pairs from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d 71 ; Mary's Peak, Benton 

 County, Oregon, September 16, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Melanoplus debilis (p. 201). 



Described from twenty males and twenty-six females from two 

 localities. 



Single .type here designated: figured d" ; Ashland, Jackson 

 County, Oregon, September 7, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



Melanoplus calidus (p. 203). 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Oilman's Ranch, Eagle 

 Creek, White Mountains, Lincoln County, New Mexico, elevation 

 7,000 feet, August 10-16, [1897]; E. O. Wooton; Morse Collection. 



V. "Short Studies of North American Tryxalin^e," by Samuel 

 Hubbard Scudder. (Proc. American Academy of Arts and 

 Sciences, Vol. XXXV, pp. 41-57, 1899.) 



The lectotypes here chosen of all the new species described in the 

 paper before us are in the Scudder Collection and have been examined 

 by the authors. 



18 The female of this species has been figured, but the importance of the other 

 sex in this genus makes it advisable to choose the unique unfigured male as the 

 lecto*ype. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



As is the case with other material collected by Professor Morse 

 in 1897 and described by Mr. Scudder, the first sets of specimens of 

 new species taken by Professor Morse are in the Scudder Collection 

 while the remaining large series are in the Morse Collection- 



Mermiria intertexta (p. 42). 



Described from two pairs from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : cf ; Georgia ; Morrison ; Scudder 

 Collection. 



Mermiria vigilans (p. 43). 



Described from two males and four females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Smithville, North Carolina, 

 November 22, [1876]; [Parker and Maynard]; Scudder Collection. 



Acentetus carinatus (p. 45). 



Based on a unique male; Florissant, Colorado, August 17-22, 

 [1877]; (S. H. Scudder); Scudder Collection. 



Opeia testacea (p. 46). 



Described from twenty-five males and seventeen females from four 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Lancaster, California, August 1, 

 1897; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



(Eonomus altus (p. 47). 



Based on fifteen males and nine females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Mount Wilson, [nee Altadena], 

 California, elevation 2,400 feet, July 27, [1897]; A. P. Morse; 

 Scudder Collection. 



Horesidotes cinereus (p. 49). 



Described from nineteen male and eleven female specimens from 

 two localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; (Palm Canon), Palm Springs, 

 California, July 13, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Stenobothrus oregonensis (p. 50). 



Described from numerous specimens from thirteen localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Divide, Oregon, 19 September 12, 

 [1897]; A.P.Morse; Scudder Collection. 



19 A specimen from this locality was chosen as the single type owing to the 

 fact that Divide, Oregon, is about the middle of the northward and southward 

 range of this species. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. r 



Stirapleura pusilla (p. 52). 



Based on eighty-nine males and eighty females from seventeen 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Mesilla, New Mexico, July 1, 

 [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Stirapleura tenuicarina (p. 53). 



Described from a unique female; Sierra Blanca, El Paso County, 

 Texas, June 26, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



AULOCARA RUFUM (p. 55). 



Based on five males and four females from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: c? ; Pueblo, Colorado, August 30-31, 

 [1877], [elevation 4,700 feet]; Scudder Collection. 



AULOCARA FEMORATUM (p. 55). 



Described from five males from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Lakin, Kansas, September 1, 

 [1877], [elevation 3,000 feet]; Scudder Collection. 



AULOCARA PARALLELUM (p. 57). 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique d 71 ; Salt Lake Valley, Utah, 

 August 1-4; Scudder Collection. 



VI. " The Orthopteran Genus Schistocerca," by Samuel Hub- 

 bard Scudder. (Proc. American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 

 Vol. XXXIV, pp. 441-476, 1899.) 



There are twenty-three species described as new in the paper 

 before us; of these we have found it advisable to choose the lecto- 

 typic specimens of nineteen of the new species from the Scudder 

 Collection and the remaining four from the Hebard Collection, ex 

 Bruner. The majority of specimens upon which these descriptions 

 are based are dried alcoholics and many are, moreover, in very poor 

 condition. In a few cases these factors have been consequently 

 of more importance than usual in selecting a specimen from the type 

 series as single type. There are no figures whatever. The labelling 

 is the same as in "The North American Ceuthophili," the second 

 paper treated in the present series, the date 1899, of course, being- 

 used. The exact location of the material is given as chiefly from 

 the Scudder Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



SCHISTOCERCA GRACILIS (p. 447). 



Described from a unique male; South America; Scudder Col- 

 lection. 



SCHISTOCERCA AURANTIA (p. 448). 



Based on one male and eight females from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 20 ; Merida [nee Meriden], 

 Yucatan; Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA CARINATA (p. 449). 



Based on a series of one male and six females from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 21 ; Vera Cruz, Mexico; Heyde; 

 Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



SCHISTOCERCA CROCOTARIA (p. 450). 



Described from a series of five females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Chontales, Nicaragua; Scudder 

 Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA INTERRITA (p. 450). 



Based on two females from Peru. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Peru; H. Edwards; Scudder 

 Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA CAMERATA (p. 451). 



Described from a series of three females from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Sinaloa, Mexico; Koels; 

 Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA MELLEA (p. 452). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Vera Cruz, Mexico; 

 Heyde; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



SCHISTOCERCA ZAPOTECA (p. 453). 



Based on twenty-one males and thirteen females from five localities. 

 Single type here designated: cT ; Venis Mecas, Mexico, January 

 6; Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



20 This specimen is chosen as single type as it comes from the first definite 

 locality and is in much better condition than the other specimens of the typical 

 series. 



21 This specimen is chosen as the single type as it fits the description perfectly, 

 is in good condition and comes from a definite locality; it is the only specimen 

 of the typical series which is satisfactory in all of these respects. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



SCHISTOCERCA PYRAMID ATA (p. 454). 



• . Described from two males and five females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: d 71 ; Cuernavaca, Mexico; Barrett;. 

 Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA DESILIENS (p. 455). 



Described from one male and four females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: unique d" ; . Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 

 November; Scudder Collection, (from Mus. Comp. Zool.). 



SCHISTOCERCA INFUMATA (p. 457 I. 



Described from seven male and three female specimens from two 

 localities. 



Single type here designated : c? ; Montevideo, Uruguay ; Meyer- 

 Diir; Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA ^QUALIS (p. 458). 



Based on two males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: d" ; Demerara, British Guiana; 

 Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA MAYA (p. 458). 



Based on three males from two localities. 



Single type here designated: d* ; Venis Mecas, Mexico, January 

 6; Palmer; Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA GULOSA (p. 459). 



Based *on a single female; Demerara, British Guiana; Scudder 

 Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA BOGOTENSIS (p. 460). 



Described from two females from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Bogota, Columbia; Scudder 

 Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA IDONEA (p. 461). 



Based on^three females from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: 5 ; Chapada [nee Crapada], Brazil, 

 July-August; Scudder Collection, (from Mus. Comp. Zool.). 



SCHISTOCERCA SONORENSIS (p. 463). 



Based on two males from a single locality. 



Single type here^ designated: cf ; Sonora, Mexico; Schott; 

 Scudder Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



SCHISTOCERCA LINEATA (p. 465). 



Based on two males and ten females from five localities. 

 Single type here designated: d 1 ; Barber County, Kansas; 

 Cragin; Hebard Collection; ex Bruner. 



SCHISTOCERCA VENUSTA (p. 467). 



Described from twenty-two males and sixteen females from twelve 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: c? 22 ; Indio, California, July 9, 1897; 

 Morse; Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA MEXICANA (p. 468). 



Described from a single male; Sinaloa, Mexico; Koels; Scudder 

 Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA SEPARATA (p. 469). 



Described from one male and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : unique cf ; Chontales, Nicaragua ;. 

 Scudder Collection. 



SCHISTOCERCA OBLIQUATA (p. 470). 



Based on one male and two females from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated : unique c? ; San Jose del Cabo. 

 Lower California, Mexico; Hebard Collection, ex Bruner. 



SCHISTOCERCA PERTURBANS (p. 471). 



Based on five female specimens from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana; 

 Richardson; Scudder Collection, (from Mus. Comp. Zool.). 



VII. "The Species of the Orthopteran Genus Derotmema," 

 by Samuel Hubbard Scudder. (Proc. American Academy of 

 Arts and Sciences, Vol. XXXV, pp. 387-395, 1900.) 



In the short paper before us we find all of the species described ; 

 with the specimens which should be chosen as lectotypes, in the 

 Scudder Collection, and all of the specimens so chosen in the present 

 paper have been examined by the authors. 



The first sets of all the material collected on the Pacific Coast in 

 1897 by Professor Morse and described in this paper by Mr. Scudder 

 were to go to the author, the great majority of remaining specimens 

 were to go to Professor Morse. 



22 This specimen is chosen as the single type as it is in the best of condition 

 and is in accord with the description throughout. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Derotmema laticinctum (p. 389). 



Based on thirty males and twenty-eight females from five localities. 



Single type here designated: 23 cf ; Mesilla, New Mexico, June 

 30, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Derotmema delicatulum (p. 390). 



Based on five males and three females from three localities. 



Single type here designated: d* ; Lancaster, California, July 31, 

 [1897]; A. P. Morse; Scudder Collection. 



Derotmema saussureanum (p. 391). 



Based on forty-five males and thirty-four females from eight 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: d\; San Bernardino, California, 

 July 16, [1897]; A. P. Morse; the type specimen has blue wings. 

 Scudder Collection. 



Derotmema lentiginosum (p. 393). 



Based on ten males and two females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; South Park, Colorado, August 

 11-16, [1877], [Altitude 8,000-10,000 feet]; (S. H. Scudder); Scudder 

 Collection. 



Derotmema lichenosum (p. 394). 



Based on forty males and fourteen females from ten localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Alkali [Stage Station, Green 

 River], Wyoming, July 27, [1877], [elevation 6,000 feet]; (S. H. 

 Scudder); Scudder Collection. 



SECTION TWO. 



In this section of the series of Single Type papers it has been 

 decided to treat the North American species which have been de- 

 scribed by the authors. -It has seemed best to consider these all in 

 one paper, not making divisions of the different papers in which the 

 new species were described, owing to the frequent brevity and con- 

 siderable number of such papers. In the present paper we have 

 few of the difficulties to contend with which we encountered and dis- 

 cussed in Section One of this series of articles, because it has always 

 been the custom of the authors to describe new species from one 

 specimen, if but one sex of a new species was at hand, and from two 



23 There is no male specimen in the typical series from Las Cruces, New 

 Mexico, the first locality given in the original description. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



specimens, one of each sex, if both sexes were available. It is 

 consequently evident that, among the species at present under 

 consideration, a great number will be found already limited to a 

 single type, and the present limitations of the others consist merely 

 in determining which sex should be selected as single type. There 

 is but one case, that of Homceogamia subdiaphana mohavensis, where, 

 in the original description, the limitation was accidentally over- 

 looked. The present paper falls naturally into two portions. The 

 first of these treats those species which have been described by the 

 senior author; there are forty-five of these, of which twenty-four are 

 located in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, eleven 

 in the Collection of the University of Kansas, six in the Kebard 

 Collection and two each in the United States National Museum 

 and the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. 

 The second portion treats those species described jointly by the 

 authors of the present paper; there are thirty-eight of these, thirty- 

 four in the Hebard Collection, three in the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia and one in the United States National 

 Museum. The nomenclature given will be that of the original 

 description, as these papers are not intended to be at all revisionary; 

 the names generally conceded to be absolute synonyms, however, 

 have been omitted. 



Part One — Species of North American Orthoptera described 



by James A. G. Rehn. 



ISCHNOPTERA JOHNSONI. 



Ent, News, Vol. XIV, p. 234, 1903. 



Based on a unique male from St. Augustine, Florida; C. W. 

 Johnson; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Homceogamia erratica. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1903, p. 187. 



Described from one male from Prescott, Arizona, June 10, 1902; 

 Oslar; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Chorisoneura plocea. 



Ent, News, Vol. XV, p. 164, 1904. 



Described from a unique female from the coast of South Carolina 

 [probably near Charleston] ; 24 Hebard Collection. 



21 Brackets are used in the present paper wherever additional data is given to 

 that contained in the original description. 



7 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb. r 



LlTANEUTRIA SKINNERI. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 26, fig. 1. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cT type; Can* Canyon,. 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, August, 1905; 

 Dr. H. Skinner; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Stagmomantis GRACILIPES. 



Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 67, figs. 15, 16. 



Described from a unique figured male from the Baboquivari 

 Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, August, 1906; F. H. Snow; 

 University of Kansas Collection. 



Vates townsendi. 



Proc. U. S. Nat, Mus., Vol. XXVII, p. 573, 1904. 



Described from a unique female taken at Zapotlan, Jalisco, Mexico, 

 July 8, 1902; C. H. T. Townsend; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Sermyle arbusctjla. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XXXIV, p. 141, 1902. 



Based on a unique female taken at San Diego, California, May 7,. 

 1901; G. W. Dunn; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Prorocorypha snowi. 



Kan, Univ. Sci. Bull, Vol. V, No. 17, p. 301, PI. LXIII, two figs.,. 

 1912. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique, figured, nearly adult cf type;. 

 Santa Rita Mountains, Arizona, elevation 5,000-8,000 feet, June, 

 1907; F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



CORDILLACRIS PIMA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 69, figs. 17, 18. 



Based on a unique female specimen from the Baboquivari Moun- 

 tains, Pima County, Arizona, 1906; F. H. Snow; University of 

 Kansas Collection. 



Platybothrus alticola. 



Ent. News, Vol. XVII, p. 284, 1906. 



Described from one male from the Beaver Range Mountains,. 

 Beaver and Piute Counties, Utah, elevation 8,000-10,000 feet;. 

 Brooklvn Institute of Arts' and Sciences Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99* 



Arphia CANORA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 564. 

 Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: & type; Salt Lake City, Utah; 

 A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Arphia ramona. 



Can. Ent, Vol. XXXIV, p. 142, 1902. 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf type; San Diego, California, 

 April 4, 1901; G. W. Dunn; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



HlPPISCUS SIERRA. 



Ent. News, Vol. XVIII, p. 350, 1907. 



Described from a unique female taken on Mount Tyndall, Tulare 

 County, California, elevation 12,000 feet; C. F. Baker; A. N. S. P. 

 Collection. 



SCIRTETICA RITENSIS. 



Kan. Univ. Sci. Bull, Vol. V, No. 17, PI. LXIII, four figs., 1910. 



Based on a unique female specimen from the Santa Rita Moun- 

 tains, Arizona, elevation 5,000-8,000 feet, July, 1907; F. H. Snow; 

 University of Kansas Collection. 



CONOZOA CARINATA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 38, figs. 2, 3. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf type; Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, August, 1905; 

 Dr. H. Skinner; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Trimerotropis arenaceus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 13, fig. 1. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured <? type; Springfield, Bingham 

 County, Idaho, July 25, 1906; Dr. H. Skinner; A. N. S. P. Col- 

 lection. 



Trimerotropis magnifica. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 42, figs. 4, 5. 



Described from a unique male specimen from Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, August, 1905: 

 Dr. H. Skinner; A. N. S. P. Collection. 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Trimerotropis RUBRIPES. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 568. 



Described from a unique female specimen from Albuquerque, 

 New Mexico, July 15, 1902; Oslar; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Trimerotropis snowi. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 223, 1905. 



Based on a single female from Congress Junction, Yavapai County, 

 Arizona; F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



Phrynotettix taosanus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 597. 



Described from a single female specimen from the Taos Valley, 

 Taos County, New Mexico; June, 1883; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Conalcea huachucana. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 48, figs. 6, 7. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured o 71 type; Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, September 28, 

 1908; C. R. Biederman; Hebard Collection. 



EOTETTIX HEBARDI. 



Ent. News, Vol. XVII, p. 234, figs. 1, 2, 1906. 

 Based on a unique male from Tyty Plantation, Thomas County, 

 Georgia, January 6, 1906; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Bradynotes excelsa. 



Ent. News, Vol. XVIII, p. 352, 1907. 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: a 71 type; Mount Tyndall, Tulare 

 County, California, elevation 12,000 feet; C. F. Baker; A. N. S. P. 

 Collection. 



Melanoplus destjltorius. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 51, figs. 8, 9. 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf type; Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, September 24, 1905; 

 C. R. Biederman; Hebard Collection. 



Melanoplus stonei. 



Ent. News, Vol. XV, p. 85, 1904. 

 Based on a pair from a single locality. 




1912.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Single type here designated: cf type; between Harris and White 

 Horse, Burlington County, New Jersey, August 13, 1902; Witmer 

 Stone and Rehn; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



APTENOPEDES CLARA. 



Ent. News, Vol. XIII, p. 14, 1902. 



Described from one male taken at Miami, Dade County, Florida, 

 January 18, 1899; S. N. Rhoads; A. N. S. P. Collection, ex Rehn. 



DlCHOPETALA L.EVIS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sct. Phila., 1907, p. 56, fig. 10. 



Described from a unique female from Carr Canyon, Huachuca 

 Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, August, 1905; Dr. H. Skinner; 

 A. N. S. P. Collection. 



HORMILIA APACHE. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 58, figs. 11, 12. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d 1 type; Carr Canyon, 

 Huachuca Mountains, Cochise County, Arizona, August, 1905; 

 Dr. H. Skinner; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Areth^a sellata. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 61, figs. 13, 14. 



Described from a single male from Palmerlee, Cochise County, 

 Arizona, July 30, 1905; C. Schaeffer; Brooklyn Institute of Arts 

 and Sciences Collection. 



Drymadlsa arizonensis. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 573. 



Based on a unique male from Florence, Arizona, 1903; C. R. 

 Biederman; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Plagiostira gracilis. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 227, 1905. 

 Based on a unique female from Bill Williams Fork, Arizona, 

 August; F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



Stipator grandis. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 544. 



Described from one female from Alta Mira, Tamaulipas, Mexico, 

 June 27, 1903; M. E. Hoag; A. N. S. P. Collection. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Stenopelmatus TERRENUS. 



Ent. News, Vol. XIII, p. 240, 1902. 



Based on a unique female from Texas; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Ceuthophilus lamellipes. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 78, fig. 19. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf type; Phoenix, Arizona, 

 November 18, 1903; R. E. Kunze; Hebard Collection. 



Ceuthophilus paucispinosus. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 227, 1905. 



Described from a unique female from Southern Arizona, August, 

 1902; F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



Ceuthophilus tuckeri. 



Ent. Neivs, Vol. XVIII, p. 445, text fig., 1907. 

 Based on a unique male from Lawrence, Kansas, October, at night ; 

 E. S. Tucker; University of Kansas Collection. 



Pristoceuthophilus marmoratus. 



Ent. News, Vol. XV, p. 280, 1904. 



Based on a unique male from the mountains near Claremont, 

 California; C. F. Baker; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Phrixocnemis franciscanus. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 228, 1905. 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf type; Humphrey's Peak, 

 Coconino County, Arizona, at base of mountain, elevation 9,500 

 feet; F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



Phrixocnemis hastiferus. 



Ent. News, Vol. XIII, p. 241, 1902. 



Based on a unique female from Arizona; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Phrixocnemis inhabilis. 



Ent. News, Vol. XV, p. 282, 1901. 



Described from a unique female specimen taken at St. Louis, 

 Missouri, November 15, 1903; C. L. Heink; Hebard Collection. 



Phrixocnemis socorrensis. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 229, 1905. 

 Based on a pair from a single locality. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Single type here designated: unique cf type; Magdalena Moun- 

 tains, Socorro County, New Mexico, August, 1894; F. H. Snow; 

 University of Kansas Collection. 



Udeopsylla serrata. 



Proc. Kan. Acad. Sci., Vol. XIX, p. 230, 1905. 

 Based on a single male from Southern Arizona, August, 1902; 

 F. H. Snow; University of Kansas Collection. 



Udeopsylla vierecki. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 725. 

 Described from a unique male (?) from Cloudcroft, Otero County, 

 New Mexico, May 27, 1902; H. L. Viereck; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Gryllus alogus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1902, p. 726. 



Based on a unique female taken at Albuquerque, New Mexico, 

 1902; T. D..A. Cockerell; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Falcicula hebardi. 



Ent. News, Vol. XIV, p. 258, 1903. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique, subsequently figured 25 <? 

 type; Thomasville, Georgia, April 17, 1903; Hebard; A. N. S. P. 

 Collection. 



Part Two — Species of North American Orthoptera described 

 by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard. 



Ischnoptera notha. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 442, fig. 21. 

 Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf type; Huachuca Moun- 

 tains, Arizona, August 22, 1903; Oslar; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Temnopteryx deserts. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 116, fig. 1. 



Described from a unique female from Johnstone, Valverde County, 

 Texas, July 8, 1907, under boulder on bare desert; Hebard; Hebard 

 Collection. 



25 Entomological News, Vol. XIV, p. 302, 1903. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



TSCHNOPTERA INSOLITA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 450, fig. 27. 

 Described from a pair from different localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf type; Shovel Mountain, 

 Texas, June 21, 1901; F. G. Schaupp; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



HOMOSOGAMIA SUBDIAPHANA MOHAVENSIS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 415. 



Based on four males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Cottonwood, San Bernardino 

 County, California, September 9, 1907, on train attracted to light; 

 Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Yersinia sophronica. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 369, figs. 1, 2. 



Based on a unique female specimen from Sonora Road Canyon, 

 Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, elevation 3,000 feet, 

 July 25, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Stagmomantis californica. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 416, figs. 1, 2. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; Cottonwood, 

 San Bernardino County, California, September 9, 1907, on train 

 attracted to light; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



DlAPHEROMERA (CeRATITES) COVILLE^}. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 127, figs. 5, 6, 9. 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf type; Franklin 

 Mountains, El Paso County, Texas, elevation 4,500 feet, July 9, 1907, 

 on greasewood, Covillea tridentata; Rehn; Hebard Collection. 



PSEUDOSERMYLE TENUIS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 121, figs. 2, 3, 4. 



Described from a unique male from the Franklin Mountains, 

 El Paso County, Texas, elevation 4,500 feet, July 9, 1907, on wisp 

 of dry grasses; Rehn; Hebard Collection. 



Apotettix minutus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 34, PI. I, figs. 3, 4. 



Based on a unique male specimen from Miami, Florida, February 

 6, 1904, damp spot near river; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105' 



MORSEA CALIFORNICA TAMALPAISENSIS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 421, figs. 3, 4. 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d 1 type; Mount Tamalpais, 

 Marin County, California, August 23, 1907, on slopes, elevation 

 1,500-2,100 feet; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Parapomala acris. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 371, figs. 3, 4. 



Described from a unique male from Railroad Pass, Cochise County,. 

 Arizona, July 23, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Parapomala perpallida. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 373, figs. 5, 6. 



Based on a unique male from the Bright Angel Trail, Grand 

 Canyon of the Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona, elevation 3,750 

 feet, September 12, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Amphitornus nanus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 376, fig. 7. 



Described from a single male from the Grand Canyon of the 

 Colorado, Coconino County, Arizona, elevation 7,000 feet, September 

 11, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



CORDILLACRIS APACHE. 



Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 139, figs. 10, [11]. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; Silver City, Grant 

 County, New Mexico, July 20, 1907; Rehn and Hebard; Hebard 

 Collection. 



CORDILLACRIS GRINNELLI. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 425, fig. 8. 



Described from a single female from the South Fork of the Santa 

 Ana River in the San Bernardino Mountains, California, elevation 

 6,200 feet, July 6, 1906; Dr. J. Grinnell; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Clinocephalus pulcher. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 36, PI. I, figs. 1, 2. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d" type; Miami, Florida, 

 July 20, 1903; W. S. Dickinson; Hebard Collection. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



HORESIDOTES PAPAGENSIS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1908, p. 379, fig. 8. 



Described from a unique female from the Sonora Road Canyon, 

 Tucson Mountains, Pima County, Arizona, elevation 3,000 feet, 

 July 25, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Ageneotettix sierranus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 429, figs. 9, [10]. 



Based on a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured c? type; Summit House, 

 Madera County, California, September 3, 1907; Hebard; Hebard 

 Collection. 



■Chortophaga australior. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 589, figs. 1, 2. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; Thomasville, 

 Georgia, December 10, 1902; Hebard; A. N. S. P. Collection. 



Encoptolophus robustus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 435, figs. 11, 12. 



Based on a unique female from the Los Angeles River, Los Angeles, 

 •California, August 24, 1907; O. Poling; Hebard Collection. 



Trimerotropis bilobata. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 362, figs. 11, [12]. 

 Described from a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; Antlers, Mesa 

 'County, Colorado, August 15, 1904; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



ClRCOTETTIX RABULA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 393, figs. 13, [14]. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; summit of hills at 

 head of Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone National Park, Wyo- 

 ming, elevation 7,000 feet, August 8, 1904; Hebard; Hebard Col- 

 lection. 



'ClRCOTETTIX SPLENDIDUS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 456, figs. 13, [14]. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique, figured d 71 type; Mount 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Lowe, San Gabriel Mountains, California, elevation 5,300 feet, 

 August 8, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Campylacantha lamprotata. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 157, figs. 12, 13, 14. 

 Based on a unique male from Hijito, Valverde County, Texas, 

 July 8, 1907; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



PODISMA ORE AS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, p. 402, figs. 15, 16. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: unique, figured cf type: summit of 

 foothills of Gallatin Range, Mammoth Hot Springs, Yellowstone 

 National Park, Wyoming, elevation 7,000 feet, August 5, 1904; 

 Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Amblycorypha floridana. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 42, PI. I, fig. 5. 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 type; Miami, Florida, 

 July 20, 1903; W. S. Dickinson; Hebard Collection. 



MlCROCENTRUM ROSTRATUM. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 43, PI. I, figs. 6, 7. 

 Described from a single female from Miami, Florida, March 16, 

 1903; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



CONOCEPHALUS LYRISTES. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 45, PI. I, figs. 8, 9. 

 Based on a unique male specimen from Chokoloskee, Monroe 

 County, Florida; Hebard Collection. 



CONOCEPHALUS MELANORHINUS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 304, figs. 1, 2. 

 Described from a unique female from Cedar Keys, Levy County, 

 Florida, August 12, 1905; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



CONOCEPHALUS HOPLOMACHUS. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 46, PI. I, figs. 10, 11. 

 Based on a single female specimen from Chokoloskee, Monroe 

 County, Florida, May; Hebard Collection. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Orchelimum FIDICINIUM. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 309, figs. 7, 8. 



Described from a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf type; Cedar Keys, Levy 

 County, Florida, August 15, 1905, in flooded salt marsh; Hebard; 

 Hebarcl Collection. 



Orchelimum militare. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 311, fig. 10. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique, figured cf type; Gainesville, 

 Alachua County, Florida, August 17, 1905, marshy sink-hole in pine 

 woods; Rehn and Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Orchelimum molossum. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. -Phila., 1907, p. 307, figs. 4, 5. 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured c? type; Pablo Beach, Duval 

 County, Florida, August 13, 1905, in grass along railroad tracks; 

 Rehn and Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Aglaothorax sierranus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 476, figs. 15, 16, 19. 



Based on a pair from the Yosemite National Park. 



Single type here designated: figured c? type; Yosemite Valley, 

 Yosemite National Park, California, elevation 4,500 feet, September 

 1, 1907, hiding against bark on trunk of conifer several feet from 

 ground; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Ateloplus macroscelus. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 169, fig. 17. 



Described from a unique female specimen from El Paso, Texas, 

 July 11, 1907, on Greasewood, Covillea tridentata; Rehn; Hebard 

 Collection. 



Ceuthophilus virgatipes. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 798. 



Based on a pair from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: cf type; Thomasville, Georgia, 

 August 13, 1903, in heavy swamp; for Hebard by Emmanuel, 

 (negro) ; Hebard Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



LlPHOPLUS ZEBRA. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 49, PI. I, fig. 12. 

 Described from a single male taken at Miami, Florida, February 

 6,1904; Hebard; Hebard Collection. 



Nemobius palustris aurantius. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 597. 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: d 1 type; Thomasville, Georgia, 

 December 6, 1903, in sphagnum mosses in swampy spot; Hebard; 

 Hebard Collection. 



section three. 



The Species described by Professor Lawrence Bruner in the 



Biologia Centrali-Americana and located in the 



Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



One hundred and sixteen of the one hundred and seventy-three 

 species of Acrididse described by Professor Bruner in the Orthoptera 

 portion of the Biologia Centrali-Americana 26 are located in the Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner. In this series are included all but one of the 

 thirty-four species described by him in that work whose range of 

 distribution is known to extend north of the Mexican boundary. 

 The authors are at present mainly interested in locating the single 

 types of species which are found in North America north of the 

 Mexican line, but the present paper treats all of those species whose 

 single types should be located in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 

 The types of the remaining fifty-seven species should be found 

 distributed as follows: twenty-four in the Biologia Centrali- 

 Americana Collection in the British Museum; sixteen in Professor 

 Bruner's South American Collection; six in the Scudder Collection 

 in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge; five in the 

 United States National Museum; four in the Carnegie Museum in 

 Pittsburgh and two in the Museum of Ceneva. The nomenclature 

 given in the original description is here used throughout, as this 

 paper is not intended to be in any way revisionary. 



Paropomala pallida (p. 40). 



Based on three female specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Indio, California; H. F. Wickham. 



28 Biologia Centrali-Americana, Orthoptera, II, pp. 19-342, 1901-1908. 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Paropomala DISSIMILIS (p. 41). 



Based on a single female from Southern California or Northern 

 Mexico; Gustav Eisen. 



Papagoa arizonensis (p. 42). 



Described from a unique male from Southern California or North- 

 ern Mexico; G. W. Dunn. 



Syrbula pactfica (pp. 43, 44). 



Based on two females from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Tepic, Mexico; Eisen. 



Syrbula modesta (pp. 44, 46). 



Based on two pairs from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : c? ; Grand Canon of the Colorado 

 River, Arizona, [July 9, 1892] 27 ; C. H. T. Townsend. 



Acrolophitus variegatus (pp. 47, 48) Tab. I, fig. 3. 



Based on an unspecified number of individuals from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : figured cf ; Carrizo Springs, Dimmit 

 County, Texas, [June, 1885]; A. Wadgymar. 



Acrolophitus uniformis (p. 47). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from various 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [Sterling, Colorado, July]. 



Mach^erocera pacifica (pp. 49, 51). 



Based on numerous specimens of both sexes from one locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Tepic, Mexico, not far from San 

 Bias on Pacific Slope; Eisen. 



SlLVITETTIX COMMUNIS (p. 56). 



Based on numerous specimens from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Monte Redondo, Costa Rica, 

 March, [1902]; Professor Lawrence Bruner. 



Ochrotettix salinus (p. 56) Tab. I, figs. 4, 4a. 



Described from an unspecified number of individuals from a single 

 locality. 



27 In the present paper all authentic informatkn given, which was not con- 

 tained in the original description, is enclosed in brackets. 




1912.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



Single type here designated : figured <?; Salina Cruz, Tehuantepec, 

 Mexico, [December, 1898]; C. C. Deam. 



Leuconotus biolleyi (p. 57). 



Based on five males from two localities. 



Single type here designated: c ; Rio Grande, Costa Rica, eleva- 

 tion 1,800 feet, [March 6, 1902]; Bruner. 



Opeia imperfecta (p. 59). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from three 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: c 71 ; Jimulco, Mexico, November, 

 [1887]; Bruner. 



Opeia mexicana (pp. 59, 60). 



Described from a unique female specimen from Tlalpam, near 

 City of Mexico, Mexico, [November, 1887]; Bruner. 



Opeia palmeri (pp. 59, 61). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique 9 ; Sierra de San Miguelito, 

 San Luis Potosi, Mexico; E. Palmer. 



Amblytropidia costaricensis (pp. 63, 66). 



Based on a series of specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated: d 71 ; San Jose, Costa Rica; Prof. 

 P. Biolley. 



Amblytropidia elongata (pp. 63, 68). 



Described from a single female from Tepic, Mexico. 



Thyriptilon vitripenne (p. 69). 



Based on fourteen males and six females from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: d 1 ; Valladolid, Yucatan; Gaumer. 



Sisantum notochloris (p. 69) Tab. I, figs. 11, 11a. 



Based on five males and two females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Medellin, Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico, September; Rev. T. Heyde. 



Orphula meridionalis (p. 73). 



Based on a single female from Pozo Azul, Costa Rica, May or June, 

 1902; M. A. Carriker, Jr. 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Orphulella graminea (pp. 75, 78). 



Based on numerous specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Phoenix, Arizona; Kunze. 



Orphulella meridionalis (pp. 77, 81). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: d 1 ; [San Jose]; Costa Rica; Biolley. 



Orphulella costaricensis (pp. 77, 82). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from one 

 locality. 

 Single type here designated: d 71 ; San Jose, Costa Rica'; [Biolley]. 



LlNOCERATIUM BOUCARDI (p. 84). 



Based on a series of six specimens from three localities. 



Single type here designated: d* ; Panama; Gustave Boucard. 



Dichromorpha mexicana (pp. 86, 87) Tab. I, figs. 18, 18a. 



Based on nine specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Tepic, Mexico. 



Dichromorpha longipennis (pp. 86, 87). 



Based on one male, six females and two nymphs from Mexico. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; [Tepic], Mexico. 



Gomphocerus meridionalis (p. 93). 



Described from a unique female from Cuernavaca, Morelos, 

 Mexico, January [4, 1899] ; Deam. 



Boopedon fuscum (pp. 95, 96). 



Based on a series of specimens from three localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Nogales, Arizona; J. G. Lemraon. 



Boopedon savannarum (pp. 95, 97). 



Based on a series of specimens from one region. 

 Single type here designated: o 71 ; West Point, Nebraska. Septem- 

 ber, 1884. 



Boopedon diabolicum (pp. 95, 98) Tab. I, figs. 21, 21a. 

 Based on a unique female from Tepic, Mexico; Eisen. 



Boopedon flaviventris (pp. 95, 98). 



Based on an unstated series of both sexes from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: c? ; Tepic, Mexico. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



Plectrotettix CALIDUS (p. 101). 



Based upon an unstated number of specimens from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: o 1 ; Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico; 

 0. W. Barrett. 



Plectrotettix excelsus (pp. 101, 102). 



Described from two females from different localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Tlalpam, near City of Mexico; 

 Barrett. 



Zapata brevipennis (p. 103) Tab. I, figs. 22, 22a. 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type there designated: unique figured 9 ; Lerdo, Durango, 

 Mexico, November, [1887]; Bruner. 



Stirapleura salina (pp. 106, 107). 



Described from two females from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Salina Cruz, Tehuantepec, 

 Mexico, December, [1898]; Deam. 



Stirapleura meridionalis (pp. 106, 107). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated : unique 9 ; Salina Cruz, Tehuantepec, 

 Mexico, December, [1898]; Deam. 



Stirapleura brachyptera (pp. 105, 108). 



Described from a unique female from Oaxaca, Mexico, [June 28]; 

 Deam. 



Ageneotettix australis (pp. 109, 110). 



Based on a series of specimens from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Phoenix, Arizona; Kunze. 



Ageneotettix curtipennis (p. 109). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from southern 

 Colorado. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [Durango], Colorado, [August 

 7, 1899]. 



AULOCARA BREVIPENNE (p. 111). 



Described from a unique male from Comancho, Zacatecas, Mexico. 

 November, [1887]; Bruner. 

 8 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Goniatron planum (p. 113) Tab. I, figs. 20, 20a, b. 



Based on a single figured male from Comancho, Zacatecas, Mexico, 

 November, [1887]; Bruner. 



Arphia imperfecta (pp. 121, 126). 



Based on a single female specimen from Tlalpam, near Mexico 

 City, Mexico, November, [1887]; Bruner. 



Arphia calida (pp. 121, 127). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from one 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Zacatecas, Mexico, November, 

 [1887]; Bruner. 



Arphia crassa (pp. 121, 128). 

 Based on a series of specimens from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Southern Arizona; Lemmon. 



Arphia townsendi (pp. 122, 129). 



Described from an unstated number of specimens from two 

 localities. 



Single type here designated : o 71 ; Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, 

 Mexico; Townsend. 



Arphia pulchripennis (pp. 122, 131). 



Described from a single male specimen from the vicinity of Los 

 Angeles, California; Koebele. 



Arphia pallidipennis (pp. 122, 131). 



Described from a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique 9 ; Eslava, Dist. Fed., 

 Mexico; Barrett. 



Arphia decepta (pp. 123, 132). 



Based on an unindicated series from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Orizaba, Mexico, [November, 

 1887]; Bruner. 



Arphia koebelei (pp. 123, 133). 



Based on a single male specimen from San Mateo County, Cali- 

 fornia, [May]; Koebele. 



Chortophaga meridionalis (pp. 135, 136). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from a single locality 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Single type here designated: 9 ; slopes of the Volcan cle Irazu, 

 Costa Rica, elevation 7,500 to 9,000 feet; Biolley. 



Encoptolophus montanus (pp. 139, 140). 



Based on an unindicated number of specimens (probably one pair) 

 from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Bozeman, Montana, [September 

 10, 1904]; R, A. Cooley. 



Encoptolophus fuliginosus (pp. 139, 141). 



Described from a large series of both sexes from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, 

 Mexico, [September, 1899]; Townsend. 



Encoptolophus herbaceus (pp. 139, 141) Tab. II, fig. 13. 



Based on a series from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Chapultepec, Dist. 

 Fed., Mexico, [November, 1887]; Bruner. 



Encoptolophus californicus (pp. 139, 142). 



Based on an unspecified series from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Los Angeles, California, [1888]; 

 D. W. Coquillett. 



Encoptolophus texensis (pp. 139, 142). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from six localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Carrizo Springs, Texas. October, 

 1884; Wadgymar. 



Hippiscus australis (pp. 151, 157). 



Described from a series from three localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Eslava, Dist. Fed., Mexico; 

 Barrett. 



Leprus interior (pp. 158, 160). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Salt Lake Valley, Utah, 

 [September, 1883]. 



Dissosteira pictipennis (pp. 162, 163). 



Described from a unique female from California ("probably 

 near Indio") ; Leon La Forge. 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



DlSSOSTEIRA PLANIPENNIS (pp. 162, 164). 



Based on a single specimen ("taken between San Diego and San 

 Bernardino, Southern") California; La Forge. 



Trachyrhachis compacta (pp. 174, 175). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens (probably 

 one pair) from one locality. 



Single type here designated : 9 ; Silver City, New Mexico, July, 

 [1884; Charles H. Marsh]. 



Trachyrhachis inconspicua (pp. 174, 176). 



Described from three specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated: o 71 ; Zacatecas, Mexico, November, 

 [1887]; Bruner. 



Trachyrhachis townsendi (pp. 174, 176). 



Described from a pair from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated : unique c? ; Colonia Garcia, Chihua- 

 hua, Mexico; Townsend. 



Trachyrhachis occidentals (p. 174). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens (probably a single 

 male) from one locality. 



Single type here designated : c 71 ; San Francisco [County, Call 

 fornia, June]. 



Trimerotropis townsendi (p. 180). 



Described from numerous specimens of both sexes from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: o 71 ; Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, 

 Mexico;. Townsend. 



Anconia grisea (pp. 185, 186). 



Described from a unique male from Antelope Valley, California;. 

 Koebele. 



Anconia c^eruleipennis (pp. 185, 186). 



Described from a single female from Hawthorne, Nevada, [June] ; 

 H. F. Wickham. 



Ramona deserticola (p. 187). 



Based on a single female specimen from Indio, California ; Wickham. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Brachystola ponderosa (pp. 193, 191). 



Described from two pairs from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Guaymas, Mexico, [November, 

 1893; Eisen]. 



Brachystola intermedia (pp. 193, 191). 



Based on three female specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Mazatlan, Mexico; Woodruff. 



Brachystola eiseni (pp. 193, 196). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Tepic, Mexico; Eisen. 



Calamacris californica (pp. 200, 201) Tab. IV, figs. 25, 25a. 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from one 

 locality. 



Single type here designated : figured d 71 ; San Jose del Cabo, Lower 

 California. 



Calamacris mexicana (pp. 200, 201) Tab. IV, fig. 26. 



Described from a unique figured female from Patrocinio, Lower 

 California, [April, 1889]; Charles D. Haines. 



Calamacris palmeri (pp. 200, 202). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from one 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Cape St. Lucas, Lower Cali- 

 fornia; Palmer. 



Calamacris oculata (pp. 200, 202). 



Based on a unique male from (extreme Southern) Arizona. 



Sphenarium bolivari (pp. 203, 205). 



Described from two males from different localities. 

 Single type here designated: c? ; Salina Cruz, Tehuantepec, 

 Mexico, [December, 1898]; Deam. 



Sphenarium marginatum (pp. 201, 205). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens from three localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Orizaba, Mexico, [November, 

 1887]; Bruner. 



Sphenarium rugosum (pp. 204, 206). 



Based on an unstated series (probably a pair) from a single locality. 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Single type here designated : c? ; Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, 

 January [4, 1899]; Deam. 



Sphenarium barretti (pp. 204, 206). 



Based on a single male specimen from Rio Cocula, Guerrero, 

 Mexico, December; Barrett. 



Sphenarium planum (pp. 204, 207). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique d 71 ; Tehuantepec, Mexico, 

 [November]. 



Sphenarium minimum (pp. 204, 207). 



Described from a unique specimen from Jalapa, Vera Cruz, Mexico, 

 [December] ; Barrett. 



Sphenarium affine (p. 207). 



Described from a pair from one locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; 2S Orizaba, Mexico, 

 [November, 1887; Bruner]. 



Dracotettix californicus (p. 226). 



Based on an unstated number of females (probably five) from four 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Santa Cruz Mountains, Cali- 

 fornia. 



1\eniopoda maxima (pp. 233, 235). 



Based on an unstated series from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Limon, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



T;eniopoda obscura (pp. 233, 235) Tab. II, figs. 21, 21a. 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Temax, Northern Yuca- 

 tan; Gaumer. 



T.ENIOPODA BICRISTATA (pp. 233, 236). 



Described from a single female from Mat. (possibly Matamoras, 

 Puebla), Mexico. 



Nautia conspersipes (pp. 243, 244). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Chontales, Nicaragua. 



28 In giving the location of the male and female types Bruner has evidently 

 confused the sexes. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



T.ENIOPHORA FEMORATA (p. 245). 



Described from an unstated number of specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: d 1 ; Pozo Azul, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



Rhicnoderma glabra (pp. 248, 249). 



Based on two females from one locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Pozo Azul, Costa Rica; Under- 

 wood and Carriker. 



Rhicnoderma pugnax (pp. 248, 250). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens (probably one male) 

 from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Vera Cruz, Mexico, [January, 

 1892]; Heyde. 



Arnilia marschalli (pp. 255, 256). 



Described from a series from two localities. 



Single type here designated: cT ; Juan Vifias, Costa Rica, March, 

 [1902]; Bruner. 



Arnilia propinqua (pp. 255, 257). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from three localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Amatitlan, Guatemala, [Feb- 

 ruary]; J. S. Hine. 



Inusia nana (pp. 259, 260). 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique d" ; Limon, Costa Rica; 

 Carriker. 



Inusia bicolor (pp. 259, 260). 



Based on an unstated series from eight localities. 



Single type here designated : d" ; Los Amates, Guatemala, [Feb- 

 ruary 26]; Hine. 



Inusia inornatipes (pp. 259, 260). 



Described from several specimens from one locality. 



Single type here designated : <? ; San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mexico; 

 Townsend. 



Proctolabus brachypterus (pp. 265, 266) Tab. Ill, figs. 19, 19a. 



Based on a male and female type from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Jalisco, Mexico; Schu- 

 mann. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Leioscapheus gracilicornis (p. 267). 



Based on several specimens (probably all females) from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Pozo Azul, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



Ann»iceris meridionalis (pp. 269, 271). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens (probably one pair) 

 from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: cT ; Pozo Azul, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



Anniceris apicalis (pp. 269, 271). 



Based on two males and three females from a single localitj^. 



Single type here designated: cf ; San Jose, Costa Rica; 

 Underwood. 



Psilotettix obesus (p. 276) Tab. IV, figs. 12, 12a. 



Based on one figured adult female from Sierra Laguna (Lower 

 California, Mexico?); Eisen. 



Aristia depressicornis (p. 277). 



Based on a single immature [female] specimen from Juan Vifias, 

 Costa Rica, March, [1902]; Bruner. 



Leptomerinthophora smaragdipes (p. 287). 



Based on several specimens of both sexes from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Pozo Azul, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



Leptomerinthophora flavovittata (pp. 287, 288). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens (probably 

 one pair) from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: d" ; Juan Vifias, Costa Rica, [March, 

 1902]; Bruner. 



Leptomerinthophora modesta (pp. 287, 288). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Monte Redondo, Costa Rica, 

 [March, 1902]; Bruner. 



Ommatolampis annulicornis (p. 290). 



Described from a single female specimen from Pozo Azul, Costa 

 Rica; Carriker. 



CEdomerus corallipes (p. 293) Tab. IV, figs. 14, 14o. 

 Described from two females from a single locality. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Single type here designated : figured 9 ; San Jose del Cabo, Lower 

 California, [April, 1889]; Haines. 



SCHISTOCERCA VITTAFRONS (p. 298). 



Described from an unstated number of specimens (probably a 

 single pair) from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Boruca, Costa Rica, July; 

 Carriker. 



Dasyscirtus olivaceus (p. 303). 



Based on a single male from Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico, 

 January 4, [1899]; Deam. 



Cyclocercus gracilis (p. 307). 



Based on two males from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Tampico, Mexico, December, 

 [1906]. 



Calotettix bicoloripes (p. 309). 



Based on an unstated number of specimens (probably a unique 

 male) from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Victoria, Tamaulipas, Mexico; 

 Barrett. 



Calotettix flavopictus (pp. 309, 310). 



Described from three females from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; Montelovez, Coahuila, Mexico, 

 [September 20] ; Palmer. 



Calotettix obscurus (pp. 309, 311). 



Based on a single male from Tampico, Mexico, December, [1906]. 



Agroscotettix modestus (p. 312) Tab. IV, figs. 13, 13a. 



Based on a single female from Villa Lerdo, Durango, Mexico, 

 November, [1887]; Bruner. 



Melanoplus picturatus (p. 318). 



Described from a single female from Colonia Garcia, Chihuahua, 

 Mexico; Townsend. 



Teinophaus saussurei (p. 332) Tab. IV, figs. 3, 3a, 4, 4a. 



Based on one male and two females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf of pair taken in coitu 

 (unique); Atoyac, Vera Cruz, Mexico, [November, 1887]; Bruner. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb.,. 



Rhachicreagra pallipes (pp. 339, 340). 



Based on a pair and three nymphs from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique adult c? ; Juan Vifias, Costa 

 Rica, March, [1902] ; Bruner. 



Rhachicreagra aeruginosa (pp. 339, 340). 



Described from a single female from Limon, Costa Rica; Carriker. 



Rhachicreagra gracilis (pp. 339, 340). 



Based on a considerable series, particularly of males, from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Juan Vifias, Costa Rica, [March, 

 1902]; Bruner. 



SECTION FOUR. 



In the present section the single types are designated of all of the 

 North American species of Orthoptera described by Professor 

 Lawrence Bruner which have not been selected previously in Sec- 

 tions I and III. Section IV is divided into four parts; the first 

 three treating the species described in three of Professor Bruner's 

 larger papers, and the fourth treating those species described in 

 various short papers from 1876 to 1905. The single types of forty- 

 three species are located in the present section; thirty-eight are in 

 the Hebard Collection ex Bruner; four in the United States National 

 Museum and one in the collection of the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology at Cambridge. 



Part I — "Some New Colorado Orthoptera," by Lawrence 

 Bruner. (Bulletin 94, Report of Entomologist, Colorado 

 Experiment Station for 1903, pp. 57-67, 1904.) 



In the paper now before us we find the entire first series of typical 

 material retained by the author. The single types are therefore all 

 in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner. No figures are given in the 

 paper under consideration, and the material, if belonging to the 

 typical series, is labelled " Type. 



}> 



Nemobius brevicaudus (p. 57). 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : unique c? ; Fort Collins, Colorado,. 

 October 4, 1901. 




1912.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Ceuthophilus arid us (p. 57). 



Described from a unique male; Grand Junction, Colorado, Novem- 

 ber 17, [1902]. 



Ageneotettix occidentalis (p. 58). 



Described from an unspecified number of specimens from Colorado 

 west of the main range. 



Single type here designated: <f ; [Glenwood Springs], Colorado, 

 September [15, 1903]. 



Encoptolophus coloradensis (p. 58). 



Described from one male and two females from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Fort Collins, Colorado^ 

 [August 31, 1898]; [L. Bruner]. 



Trimerotropis inconspicua (p. 59). 



Based on an unspecified number of individuals from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Palisade, Colorado, July [8, 1901]. 



xEOLOPLUS MINOR (p. 60). 



Based on a series of both sexes from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Delta, Colorado, July 13, 1901. 



Hesperotettix gillettei (p. 61). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from four localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Rifle, Colorado, July 25, [1900]; 

 (specimen has. wings one-half as long as abdomen). 



Hesperotettix coloradensis (p. 61). 



Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique <? : Durango, Colorado, 

 August 7, [1899]. 



Melanoplus sanguineus (p. 63). 



Based on a series of both sexes from two localities. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Lamar, Colorado, [September. 

 10, 1898]. 



Melanoplus tristis (p. 64). 



* 



Based on three males and five females from three localities. • 

 Single type here designated: c? ; Durango, Colorado, August 

 [3, 1900]. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Melanoplus flabellifer brevipennis (p. Go). 



Described from six males and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Palisade, Colorado, July 8, 1901. 



Melanoplus dimidipennis (p. 66). 



Based on a unique male; Fort Collins, Colorado, August 16, [1898]. 



Part II. — "Ten New Species of Orthoptera from Nebraska — 

 Notes on Habits, Wing Variation, etc.," by Lawrence 

 Bruner. (Canadian Entomologist, Vol. XXIII, pp. 36-40, 

 56-59, 70-73. 1891.) 



Practically the entire series of Orthoptera used in the prepara- 

 tion of the paper before us is in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner, 

 and all of the single types are there located. There are no figures 

 accompanying this paper and typical material is labelled "Type" 

 indiscriminately. 



Cycloptilus borealis (p. 37). 



Described from a series of specimens from two localities. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Lincoln, Nebraska, September 

 15, 1888 (taken on margins of large salt basin on sandy soil); L. 

 Bruner. 



Ceuthophilus pallescens (p. 37). 



Described from one female and one immature male from two 

 localities. 



Single type here designated : unique 9 ; 17 miles north of Harrison, 

 Sioux County, Nebraska (taken in shallow well). 



Udeopsylla compacta (p. 38). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from three States. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [Barbour County], Kansas, 

 11886]; [F. W. Cragin]. 



Xiphidium modestum (p. 56). 



Based on a series of specimens from five areas. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [West Point], Nebraska, [Sep- 

 tember 4]. 



Xiphidium nigropleurum (p. 58). 



Described from a series of specimens taken in Eastern Nebraska. 



Single type here designated: cf ; [West Point], Nebraska, [Sep- 

 tember 1]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Orchelimum gracile 29 (p. 70). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from Nebraska. 

 Single type here designated : tf ; West Point, Nebraska, [Septem- 

 ber 5]. 



Orchelimum gladiator (p. 71). 



Described from two females taken in the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: 9 ; West Point, Nebraska, Septem- 

 ber, 1886 (taken on flowers of golden-rod, Solidago rigida) ; L. Bruner. 



Orchelimum minor (p. 72). 



Described from a single female; District of Columbia, [September 

 15, 1884]. 



CONOCEPHALUS NEBRASCENSIS (p. 72). 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens from three States. 

 Single type here designated: <? ; [West Point], Nebraska, [August, 



1887]. 



AMBLYCORYPHA SCUDDER.E (p. 73). 



Described from an unspecified number of individuals from eastern 

 Nebraska. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; [Omaha], Nebraska, [September]. 



Part III. — " First Contribution to the Knowledge of the 

 Orthoptera of Kansas," by Lawrence Bruner. (Bulletin 

 of the Washburn College Laboratory of Natural History, Vol. IV, 

 No. 4, pp. 125-139, 1885.) 



The entire series of typical material, with the exception of one 

 specimen, used in the descriptions of new species in the paper here under 

 consideration, is in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner, and all of the single 

 types are there located. No figures are given in this paper and all 

 typical material is labelled "Type." 



Gryllotalpa ponderosa (p. 126). 



Described from one female; Labette County, Kansas; Dr. Newlon. 



Daihinia gigantea (p. 127). 



Based on a single male; Labette County, Kansas; Dr. Newlon. 



- 9 Brunei- (Ent. Neics, III, p. 264, 1892) replaced this specific name with 

 delicatum in consequence of Harris's previous use of the name for another species 

 of the same genus. 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Thyreonotus cragini (p. 129). 



Based on a unique female; Barbour County, Kansas; Cragin. 



Thyreonotus scudderi (p. 129). 



Based on two pairs from two localities. 



Single type here designated : d 1 ; Barbour County, Kansas; Cragin. 



Part IV. — Species of North American Orthoptera, described 

 by Professor Lawrence Bruner, in various short papers 

 from 1876 to 1905. 



Arphia abekrans. 



Bruner in Caudell; Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 467, 1905. 

 Described from a single female from the Huachuca Mountains, 

 Arizona; Dr. R. E. Kunze; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Encoptolophus pallidus. 



N. A. Fauna, No. 7, p. 266, 1893. 



Based on an unstated number of specimens from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: d\; Panamint Valley, California, 

 April 6, 1891; Death Valley Expedition; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



SCIRTETICA OCCIDENTALIS. 



N. A. Fauna, No. 7, p. 267, 1893. 



Described from a single female taken in the Argus Mountains, 

 California, May, 1891; Death Valley Expedition; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



TOMONOTUS FERRUGINOSUS. 



Bruner in Caudell; Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 470, 

 Fig. 4, 1905. 



Description based on an unstated number of specimens from six 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Fort Grant, Arizona, [1882]; 

 Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



TRIMEROTROPIS CjERULEIPENNIS. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XVII, p. 10, 1885. 

 Based on a series of both sexes from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: d* ; Umatilla, Washington, June 

 26, 1882; Hagen and Henshaw; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Dracotettix plutonius. 

 N. A. Fauna, No. 7, p. 267, 1893. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Based on an unspecified number of males and females from two 

 localities. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Panamint Valley, California, 

 April, 1891; Death Valley Expedition; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Pezotettix chenopodii. 



Insect Life, Vol. VII, p. 41, 1894. 



Based on large numbers of both sexes from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Grand Junction, Colorado, 

 June, [1893]; Brunei- ; Hebarcl Collection ex Bruner. 



Pezotettix hispidus. 



Can. Ent,, Vol. XVII, p. 12, 1885. 



Based on an unstated series of both sexes from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Colville, Washington, July 24, 

 1882; Hagen and Henshaw; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus fluviatilis. 



Ann, Rept. Nebr. Bd. Agr. for 1896, p. 136, fig. 34, 1897. 



Based on an unstated series from one region. 



Single type here designated : figured <? ; [Ashland, Nebraska, 

 September, 1896]; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Pezotettix gracilis. 



Can, Ent., Vol. VIII, p. 124, 1876. 



Based on an unstated number of males and females from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Omaha, Nebraska, August- 

 October; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Melanoplus herbaceus. 



U. S. Dept. Agr., Div. Entom., Bull. 28, p. 25, Fig. 13b, 1893. 



Based on a number of specimens of both sexes from one locality. 



Single t ype here designated : figured cf ; El Paso, Texas, [Novem- 

 ber,] 1887; Bruner; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Pezotettix washingtonius. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XVII, p. 14, 1885. 



Described from a large series of both sexes from one locality. 



Single type here designated: c? ; Loon Lake, Colville Valley, 

 Washington, July 25, 1882; Hagen and Henshaw; Hebard Collec- 

 tion ex Bruner. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Bradynotes MONTANUS. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XVII, p. 16, 1885. 

 Based on specimens of both sexes from two localities. 

 Single type here designated : cf ; Colville; Loon Lake, Washington, 

 July 23-25, [1882]; Hagen; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



CONOCEPHALUS ATLANTICUS. 



Ent. News, Vol. X, p. 38, 1899. ' 



Based on fourteen specimens of both sexes from four localities. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Philadelphia Neck, Pennsyl- 

 vania, [from] J. B. Smith; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Ceuthophiltjs silvestris. 



Bull. Washb. Coll., Vol. I, p. 127, 1885. 



Described from eight specimens from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Topeka, Kansas, under logs in 

 woods, F. W. Cragin; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



Myrmecophila oregonensis. 



Can. Ent, Vol. XVI, p. 43, 1884. 



Based on a single female specimen from Portland, Oregon, summer 

 of 1882; Henshaw; Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambr. 



Myrmecophila pergandei. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XVI, p. 42, 1884. 



Described from an unstated series from the South Atlantic States. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; Washington, D. C, April 22, 

 1883, with Camponotus pennsyluanicus; Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



March 5. 



Because of preparations for holding sessions, March 19th, 20th 

 and 21st, in commemoration of the founding of the Academy, no 

 arrangement was made for the stated meeting on the first Tuesday 

 of March. 




1912J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



CELEBRATION 



OF THE 



ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY 



OF THE 



FOUNDING OF THE ACADEMY. 



March 19. 



The President, the Hon. Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., 



in the Chair. 



Three hundred and eighty-two persons present, including delegates 

 from American and foreign corresponding societies and institutions. 



The President introduced the Hon. Rudolph Blankenburg, 

 the Mayor of Philadelphia, who welcomed the delegates and 

 guests to the city. 



After brief instructions from the Recording Secretary, the dele- 

 gates responded to the names of the societies and institutions repre- 

 sented by them as they were called by the Corresponding Secretary } 

 their letters and addresses being handed to the President. 



After announcements by the Recording Secretary, the President 

 read an Historical Address. 1 



The routine of a stated meeting was then proceeded with in the 

 belief, as was explained by the President, that an illustration of the 

 formula by means of which the Academy had transacted its business 

 as a society for one hundred years would be of interest to those 

 familiar with the results which made the present celebration worth 

 while. 



The minutes of the last meeting and the minute of the first Record- 

 ing Secretary, Dr. Camillus Macmahon Mann, dated March 21, 1812, 

 defining the foundation, were read. 



Additions to the museum and library were announced. 



The Corresponding Secretary reported on letters received in 

 connection with the centenary and others. 



1 The Mayor's Welcome, the President's Address, and other contributions to 

 the sessions will be published in the quartc Commemorative Volume (the 

 fifteenth of the Journal). 

 9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The Chair announced, with appreciative remarks, the death this 

 morning of Thomas Harrison Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D. 



The report of the Council was received. 



The Publication Committee, acting in conjunction with the 

 Centenary Sub-committee on Printing and Publication, reported 

 that arrangements had been made for the publication of a Com- 

 memorative quarto volume (the fifteenth of the Journal), an index 

 to the entire series of the Proceedings and Journal to the end of 

 1910, and a detailed history of the Academy by the Recording 

 Secretary, of which the Short History published in connection with 

 the Philadelphia Founders' Week Celebration may be considered a 

 prodromus. 



Papers under the following titles had been presented for publica- 

 tion since the last meeting of the Academy: 



"Notes on a collection of fossils from Wilmington, North Carolina," 

 by Amos P. Brown and H. A. Pilsbry (February 29). 



"A synopsis of the genus Mastacembelus," by G. A. Boulenger 

 (March 1). 



"The vegetation of the banana holes of Florida," by John W. 

 Harshberger (March 1). 



"On the rate of growth of stony corals," by Thomas Wayland 

 Vaughan (March 12). 



"The faunal divisions of eastern North America in relation to 

 vegetation," by Spencer Trotter (March 12). 



"The relation of smell, taste, and the common chemical sense in 

 vertebrates," by George Howard Parker (March 18). 



"On the supposed Tertiary antarctic continent," by Sir William 

 Thiselton Dyer (March 18). " 



Under the head of "Verbal Communications," the Recording 

 Secretary gave some reminiscences of the people with whom he had 

 been associated in the Academy for the past fifty years, 2 his first 

 record of accessions to the librae being dated February 4, 1862. 



New nominations for membership were read. The election of 

 members was postponed until next month. 



The rough minutes having been read and approved, the meeting 

 adjourned until the next morning at 10 o'clock. 



Second Day, March 20. 

 The meeting was called to order by the President at 10.05 A. M. 

 The following communications were made : 



2 These notes, with many others of the same kind, will be found in Dr. Nolan's 

 History of the Academy, to be published in connection with the Centenary Cele- 



bration 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D.: "Experimental Studies in Nuclear and 

 Cell Division." Illustrated.* 



During several seasons extensive experiments were made on the 

 segmenting eggs of Crepidala plana. These experiments include a 

 study of the influence on nuclear and cell division of hypertonic 

 and hypotonic sea water, of ether, alcohol, etc., of the lack of oxygen, 

 of carbon dioxide, of the electric current, and of pressure and shaking. 

 The following general conclusions may be drawn from this work: 



1. Under the same treatment the effects on cell division may be 

 extremely varied, owing, probably, to the different stages acted upon. 



2. A dividing cell is much more easily disturbed or rendered 

 abnormal than is a resting one; the mitotic figure in particular is 

 very easily altered and most of the abnormalities observed arise 

 from this source. 



3. The earlier stages of cleavage are much more easily altered than 

 are the later ones. 



4. Certain general abnormalities occur after the most varied 

 treatment, e.g., the general result both of concentration and of 

 dilution of sea water is to produce polyasters and to prevent the 

 cleavage of the yolk. 



5. On the whole, the results of the hypertonic solutions are the 

 same whether the} r are produced by evaporation of the sea water or 

 by addition of NaCl, MgCl, or KC1 to sea water; in short,, these 

 salts exert no specific action on cell division. 



6. The most general modification of the mitotic figure is the 

 production of polyasters, multipolar spindles, and as a consequence, 

 multiple nuclei. In many cases the cells are filled with asters and 

 irregular mitotic figures during division, while in the resting stage 

 they are filled with equally numerous resting centrosomes and nuclei. 



7. The movements of the chromosomes are in many cases inter- 

 rupted, so that they remain scattered along the spindle, while the 

 cytoplasmic movements are frequently stopped or altered. 



8. In some cases the achromatic portion of the nucleus is separated 

 from the chromatic part, and the two may persist side by side during 

 the resting stage of the cell; in the division stages the achromatic 

 nuclei give rise to asters, the chromatic to chromosomes and both 

 may divide indefinitely, giving rise to large numbers of chromatic 

 and achromatic nuclei. 



9. The most general modification of the division of the cell body 

 is the suppression of the cleavage of the yolk; this occurs in practi- 

 cally all the experiments ; at the same time the cleavage may proceed 

 more or less regularly in the protoplasmic portion of the egg. In 

 normal eggs the first and second cleavages divide the yolk into four 

 equal cells (the macromeres) and from each of these three small 

 cells (the micromeres) are budded off. 



10. If the yolk remains undivided it gives rise in certain cases to 

 three micromeres, which have the characteristics of those formed 



* An asterisk after the title of the paper indicates that it is published in the 

 Commemorative Volume of the Journal of the Academy (XV) . 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March. 



from each of the four macromeres of the normal egg. If the yolk 

 has divided once so as to form two macromeres, each of these may 

 give rise to three micromeres, having the characteristics of the three 

 quartet cells of the normal egg. In short, the number of micromeres 

 depends upon the number of macromeres: when there are four of 

 these as in normal eggs, the micromeres are formed in three quartets; 

 when there are two, they are formed in three pairs; when there is 

 but one macromere, i.e., when the yolk remains undivided, the 

 micromeres are formed singly. 



11. When eggs are subjected to pressure the third cleavage which 

 normally gives rise to the first group of micromeres, may divide one 

 or more of the macromeres equally, thus giving rise to five, six, seven 

 or eight macromeres. If the pressure is removed from such eggs 

 each macromere gives rise to three micromeres in a manner approxi- 

 mately normal ; again showing that the number of micromeres which 

 may come from a macromere is fixed, whatever the number of 

 micromeres may be. 



12. The results stated in the two preceding paragraphs show that 

 the omission or the addition of cleavages does not alter the character 

 or localization of the egg substances and that the latter, when unim- 

 peded, determines the character of the cell division. 



13. Isolated blastomeres undergo partial development, each giving 

 rise only to the cells which it would form if still a part of the entire 

 egg, but the general form is entire, i.e., there is no open side. 



14. A weak electric current leads to the solution and disappearance 

 of the chromatin and may destroy spindle fibres and astral rays, 

 thus stopping mitosis. It may also destroy the polarity of the cell 

 and prevent the normal separation of protoplasm and yolk. 



15. Abnormalities of mitosis may perpetuate themselves in sub- 

 sequent divisions, even when the cause which first induced them is 

 removed. 



Carlotta J. Maury, Ph.D.: "A Contribution to the Paleontology 

 of Trinidad." Illustrated by drawings and charts.* 



A large number of basal Eocene species recently discovered in the 

 vicinity of Trinidad Island are described. 



These fossils have a very significant bearing on the problem of 

 the origin of the Midwayan and Lignitic faunas of the Gulf and of 

 certain species found also in lower Eocene formations of the Atlantic 

 coast of the southeastern States. 



The shells were discovered by Mr. Arthur C. Veatch while explor- 

 ing a small island called Soldado Rock. This lies off the south- 

 western end of Trinidad, in the Gulf of Paria, near the Serpent's 

 Mouth, and rises about 100 feet above the surrounding waters. On 

 this rock Mr. Veatch found a succession of eight beds of which Nos. 

 2, 6 and 8 were fossiliferous. The collections made by Mr. Veatch 

 were given to the writer for identification. 



Bed No. 2 was found to contain a rich fauna of basal Eocene forms, 

 among the forty-four species being the exceedingly characteristic 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



North American species of that horizon, Venericardia planicosta, 

 Latirus tortilis, Calyptraphorus velatus, var. compressus, Levifusus 

 pagoda, and Turritella mortoni. To add to the interest, mingled 

 with these were the characteristic Brazilian species from the Pernam- 

 buco beds, Callista mcgrathiana, Chione paraensis, and Cucullcea 

 harttii. These had been previously found only in the Brazilian 

 beds, especially in those of the Maria Farinha, a rivulet near Pernam- 

 buco. Thus the age of the Maria Farinha beds which before were, 

 usually doubtfully referred to the Cretaceous, and that of the Soldado 

 No. 2 bed was definitely established as equivalent to the Eocene of 

 Midway, Alabama. 



The Soldado fauna was rich and varied. The genera Ostrea, 

 Venericardia, Fusus, and Turritella led as regards numbers of species. 

 By the discovery of Venericardia planicosta at Soldado, its already 

 remarkable range is extended south as far as 10° N. Lat. Moreover, 

 its Antillean centre of distribution, postulated by Dr. Dall in 1903, 

 is now established by the facts. In the light of those facts, we can 

 trace this species from northern South America to southern and 

 western North America and to northern and southern Europe. 



From the Pernambuco basin the Cucullwa harttii fauna travelled 

 north as far as Soldado; for in the early Tertiary there was no 

 Amazon to act as a barrier with its discharge of fresh water. As far 

 as known, Soldado was the northern limit of the migration of this 

 fauna. 



The Venericardia planicosta fauna travelled from the Soldado to 

 the Alabama basin. This wandering species also crossed the strait 

 covering the future Isthmus and established colonies along the 

 Pacific coast in California and Oregon. It is a curious fact that its 

 descendants are living there to the present day, although elsewhere 

 the group has been entirely blotted out. 



From the Alabama basin the Venericardia plan icosta fauna continues 

 to advance in a northeasterly direction up the coast, the peninsula 

 of Florida having not yet been raised to force a detour. The accom- 

 panying species settled down along the way, Turritella mortoni 

 advancing as far as Maryland. Thence Venericardia planicosta 

 continued its advance alone to the north and east, eventually reaching 

 the shores of northern Europe, probably via a Greenland-Iceland 

 shallow water route. Established in Europe, it spread in great force 

 over Belgium, France, and northern Italy. 



In Bed No. 8, Soldado Rock, one of the commonest species is 

 Ostrea thirsce, so characteristic of the Lignitic Eocene of Alabama. 

 Hence this species indicates a later migration from South to North 

 America. 



In conclusion, we may list the following as species which have 

 migrated northward from the Soldado region as a centre of develop- 

 ment: Ostrea cremdimarginata Gabb, 0. pidaskensis Harris, 0. 

 thirso3 Gabb, Modiola cf. alabamensis Aldrich, Venericardia alticostata 

 Con., T\ planicosta Lam., Meretrix cf. nuttaliopsis Heilprin, Lyria 

 wUcoxiana Aldrich var. aldrichiana n. var., Levifusus pagoda 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Heilprin, Clavella hubbardanus ? Harris, Latirus tortilis Whitfield, 

 Fusoficula juvenis Whitfield, Calyptraphorus velatus var. compressus 

 Aldr., Turritella humerosa var. elicitatoides n. var., Turritella nerinexa 

 Harris, Turritella mortoni Conrad, Mesalia pumila var. allentonensis 

 Aldr., Calyptraia aperta Sol., Natica cf. semilunata Lea var., Den- 

 talium microstria Heilprin. The same place of origin is indicated 

 for the genera Rimella and Venerupis. The latter genus is now 

 extinct in the Atlantic. 



Interesting and ancestral forms of other genera, as Pholas and 

 Pleurotoma, were also found at Soldado. 



The Soldado faunas thus demonstrate that the Eocene of the 

 Gulf coast, just like its recent molluscan fauna, contained a large 

 Antillean element and that the lower Tertiary North American 

 faunas were made up in great measure of immigrants from the shores 

 of northeastern South America. 



William J. Holland, Sc.D., LL.D.: "David Alter, the First Dis- 

 coverer of Spectrum Analysis." 



Dr. Holland called attention to the fact that five years before 

 Kirchhoff, the celebrated German physicist, had announced the 

 possibility of determining the various elements by Frauenhofer's 

 lines in the spectrum, Dr. David Alter had published in the American 

 Journal of Science the results of his observations upon the spectrum, 

 showing the possibility of determining the presence through the 

 spectrum of various metals and gases. Dr. Alter's communications 

 had been extensively reproduced in foreign scientific journals at 

 dates preceding the publication by Kirchhoff of his discovery. 



Dr. Holland exhibited the prism made by Dr. Alter with which 

 he had conducted his investigations. 



John W. Harshberger, Ph.D.: " The Vegetation of the Banana 

 Holes of Florida." 



The eastern coast of Florida south of the sand hills at Delray is 

 characterized by extensive outcrops of limestone known as Miami 

 oolite. The surface of this Miami oolite weathers into angular nodules 

 of lime rock and by water solution is eaten into pot holes of greater 

 or less depth known as banana holes. These reach to the water 

 table beneath the surface and have been filled with sand and organic 

 debris until a soil has been formed which supports a vegetation 

 distinct from that of the adjacent pine land. The soil of these sinks, 

 which vary greatly in diameter, is more retentive of moisture than 

 the porous soil of the pine land, so that the vegetation of broad- 

 leaved trees and associated herbs is essentially mesophytic, while 

 that of the pine land is essentially xerophytic. Most of the banana 

 holes contain standing water during a part of the year. 



The occupancy of these pot holes by the migration of plants into 

 them is purely fortuitous, but the survival of any species, carried 

 there by wind, water, and birds, is conditioned solely by the amount 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



of space, light, and edaphic relations. A very slight difference in the 

 soil, drainage, depth below the general surface of the adjoining 

 pine land, amount of soil or standing water, amount of light which 

 penetrates through the close stand of surrounding pine trees, makes 

 a difference in the vegetation that fills the different banana holes. 



In all, twenty-three plants were found in seventeen different 

 banana holes investigated in a region where they are common, 

 namely, between Naranja and Princeton in South Florida. The 

 following is a list of the species and their relative abundance: Sabal 

 palmetto (12), Anona glabra (11), Chrysobalanus pellocarpus (8), 

 Sagittaria lancijolia (8), Myrica cerifera (6), Per sea pubescens (4), 

 Yitis munsoniana (4), Proserpinaca platycarpa (4), Cladium effusum 

 (4), Ilex cassine (3), Cephakmthus occidentalis (S),Salix longipes (3), 

 Phlebodium aureum (2), Isnardia natans (2), Polypodium polypo- 

 dioides (1), Typha latifolia (1), Phragmites phragmites (1), Smilax 

 laurifolia (1), Quercus virginiana (1), Metopium mctopium (1), 

 Morinda roioc (1), Conoclinum dichotomum (1), Willugbaeya scandens 

 (1). Of these species nine are trees; two, shrubs; three are lianes; 

 several are epiphytes; four are rooting aquatics and two are sub- 

 merged aquatics. 



The origin of these banana holes and the character of the native 

 vegetation with which they are filled suggest the origin and nature 

 of the larger areas of deciduous subtropic and tropic forest trees 

 known in the South as hammocks. As the banana holes exist in all 

 sizes from those which are a meter in diameter to those which cover 

 several hectares, no sharp distinction can be made between the 

 vegetation of the larger banana holes and the smaller hammocks 

 which occur in the same region. Presumably the hammocks have 

 had a similar origin as the banana holes by starting in a shallow, 

 basin-shaped hollow of the prevailing oolitic limestone. This 

 hollow has filled gradually with leaf -mold and sand liberated by the 

 solution of the surrounding lime rock of which sand is a constituent 

 until a sandy loam soil is formed in which the tropic forest trees find 

 suitable conditions for growth. Once the hammock vegetation has 

 established itself, it becomes self-perpetuative and forms a climax 

 forest, which becomes an exclusive type gradually encroaching upon 

 the area of country occupied by the slash pine, Pinus caribaea, which 

 with its associates forms an ancient and successful type of forest 

 holding well its own against other competing types of vegetation. 



Frederick W. True, LL.D.: "A New Species of Delphinodon." 

 Illustrated.* 



Dr. Frederick W. True gave an account of a new species of fossil 

 porpoise from the Miocene formation of Maryland, belonging to 

 the genus Delphinodon, for which the name of Delphinodon dividum 

 is proposed. The U. S. National Museum was engaged in 1908 

 and 1909 in making collections of cetacean remains from the 

 Calvert Cliffs, Maryland, and obtained several skulls and fragments 

 of skulls, many limb bones, and large numbers of vertebrse. In 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



addition, the Museum obtained a nearly complete skeleton of a 

 fossil porpoise belonging to the family Delphinidse. This specimen 

 comprises the skull and mandible, about thirty vertebrae, many pairs 

 of ribs, a scapula, limb-bones, and numerous teeth, including several 

 in situ. It is possible from this material to determine accurately 

 the characters of the species. The skull is distinctly delphinoid, 

 but the crowns of the posterior teeth, instead of being simple and 

 conical, as in typical recent Delphinidse, are trituberculate, with 

 rugose enamel. The cervical vertebrae are all separate, the neural 

 spines of the thoracic vertebrae erect, the transverse processes of the 

 lumbar vertebrae long and slender, but not acuminate, and the ulna 

 furnished with a lunate olecranon. 



The new species appears to belong to the genus Delphinodon, 

 which is based on two or three forms known only from detached 

 teeth, and hitherto regarded as belonging to the Squalodontidae. 

 From the evidence furnished by the new material, the genus should 

 probably be transferred to the Delphinidae. 



Henry H. Donaldson, Ph.D.: "The Historv and Zoological Position 

 of the Albino Rat."* 



There are two common rats in the United States: Mus rattus, 

 the black rat, together with Mus rattus alexandrinus — its gray 

 variety — and Mus norvegicus, the common brown or Norway rat. 

 Mus rattus entered Europe from the east about the thirteenth century 

 and spread widely, reaching America on the ships of the early ex- 

 plorers and colonists. Mus norvegicus, also coming from the East, 

 did not arrive in Europe until the beginning of the eighteenth cen- 

 tury and in America not until 1750 or 1775. Wherever the Norway 

 rat has gone it has displaced the Mus rattus. The common albino 

 which we see to-day is a strain of the Norway rat. It seems probable 

 that at one time albinos of Mus rattus must have existed, but they 

 are nowhere to be found at present. The origin and history of the 

 existing albinos is obscure, but there is no evidence that they have 

 established themselves in open competition with the pigmented forms. 



They are always found under conditions of domestication. This 

 manner of life has led to some structural modifications, and especially 

 noticeable is the diminution in the weight of the central nervous 

 system. 



Although all albinos breed true to color, yet their composition is 

 not identical, as is shown by the fact that in crosses of extracted 

 albinos with pigmented forms, the color markings of the progeny 

 are modified according to the ancestry of the albino. A pure strain 

 of albinos is therefore not obtainable. 



Edward B. Meigs, M.D., and L. A. Ryan, Ph.D.: "The Ash of 

 Smooth Muscle." 3 

 The smooth muscle of the bull-frog's stomach has been analyzed 

 quantitatively for potassium, sodium, iron, calcium, magnesium, 



3 The entire article in The Journal of Biological Chemistry, May, 1912. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



phosphorus, chlorine, and sulphur by methods in general similar to 

 those described by Katz in the Archiv fur die gesammte Physiologie, 

 1896, Vol. LXIII, pp. 1 et seq. At least two determinations were 

 made in the case of every element; and in no case, except that of 

 sodium, did the parallel determinations differ from each other by 

 more than 15 per cent. In the case of sodium, one determination 

 was about 24 per cent, higher than the other. The following are 

 the average amounts of the elements found, given as per cent, of the 

 fresh tissue: Potassium, 0.3250; Sodium, 0.0726; Iron, 0.0007; 

 Calcium, 0.0042; Magnesium, 0.0129; Phosphorus, 0.1372; Chlo- 

 rine, 0.1195; Sulphur, 0.1612. Six determinations were made of 

 the water and total solids. The averages were solids, 17.70 per cent. ; 

 water, 82.30 per cent. The widest differences were solids I, 17.39 

 per cent.; solids VI, 17.99 per cent. 



Parallel analyses of the ash of the striated muscle of the same 

 frogs were made, and the results obtained were quite close to those 

 reported by Katz for frog's striated muscle. The work indicates 

 that smooth muscle contains somewhat less potassium and phos- 

 phorus and considerably more sodium and chlorine than striated 

 muscle, but the differences are much less marked than has sometimes 

 been supposed. 



The chemical work was supplemented with microscopic study of 

 fixed and fresh samples of the tissue analyzed as "smooth muscle," 

 and it was found that about 80 per cent, of its volume was smooth 

 muscle fibre; about 5 per cent, extraneous connective tissue; and 

 the remainder, interstitial spaces between the muscle fibres. 



Marshall A. Howe, Ph.D.: "Reef -building and Land-forming 

 Seaweeds." Beautifully illustrated. 



That the corals and other lime-secreting animals are active agents 

 in building reefs and forming land has been a matter of common 

 knowledge and belief for more than half a century, but that certain 

 marine algse or seaweeds also have an important and sometimes 

 predominating part in the same great work has received no par- 

 ticular emphasis until quite recent years. Most people think of 

 sea plants, if they think of them at all, as small delicate ornamental 

 "sea-mosses" or as coarse, succulent, not especially attractive, kelps 

 or rockweeds, having in either case, little solid substance to be left 

 behind on their decay. The fact is, however, that there are many 

 different kinds of marine plants that secrete lime from the sea water 

 and are more or less hard and stone-like, so that their decay or their 

 continued upward growth is accompanied by a considerable increase 

 in the height of the sea bottom wherever these plants happen to be 

 growing. The corals are, generally speaking, confined to the warmer 

 seas, but the corallines, lime-secreting marine plants with a superficial 

 resemblance to the corals, are more widely distributed, having, in 

 fact, been found to be very abundant more than 12° north of the 

 Arctic Circle. The late Professor Kjellman, of Upsala, has stated 

 that off the shores of Spitsbergen and Nova Zembla a certain coral- 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



line (Lithothamnium glaciale) forms thick layers on the ocean floor,, 

 mostly in 60 to 120 feet of water and that "in the formation of the 

 future strata of the earth's crust in these regions it must become of 

 essential importance." Dr. Henry B. Bigelow, of Harvard University, 

 was quoted as stating that "algse probably form the greatest mass' 7 

 of the "shell sands" of Bermuda, and Sir John Murray, in reporting 

 the results of the famous Challenger Expedition, has recorded his 

 opinion that in three out of four analyzed samples of so-called coral 

 sand or mud from Bermuda the calcareous seaweeds and their 

 broken-down parts composed over 50 per cent, of the mass. As 

 Dr. Bigelow has remarked, the reports of the borings in Funafuti, 

 a "true coral " island of the Ellice group, recently published by the 

 Royal Society of London, are of special interest in this connection. 

 Borings were here made to a depth of over 1,100 feet and the materials 

 brought up indicate that the lime-secreting seaweeds have been of 

 greater importance then the corals in the formation of this island. 



The lecture was illustrated by about forty lantern-slides, showing 

 various types of calcareous seaweeds, and also by specimens from 

 the speaker's collections in the West Indies and elsewhere. 



Adjournment for luncheon. 



The meeting reconvened at 2.40 P.M., when the following com- 

 munications were made: 



Benjamin Smith Lyman: "Natural History Morality." 



Our predecessors, in founding the Academy, a hundred years ago, 

 probably little dreamed of any direct association of morality with 

 the study of natural history. They had doubtless been attracted 

 to the study by the beauty of its objects, as well, perhaps, as by an 

 instinctive feeling that a more thorough knowledge of them might 

 lead, not only to various commercial benefit, but to intellectual 

 broadening and improvement in many ways. Naturally, the first 

 thing to be done was to collect the facts, to describe and distinguish 

 by names the countless varieties of animals and plants; and then 

 to arrange them in systematic order. Whether the expression 

 "natural sciences" in the Academy's name was merely intended to 

 cover natural history or not, it certainly has turned out that, for 

 a hundred years, that has been almost exclusively the Academy's 

 field of work. Only through occasional strict construction and a 

 literal, logical interpretation of the society's name have astronomy, 

 chemistry, and other branches of physics been able, from time to 

 time, to assert and maintain a scanty foothold in the Academy's 

 proceedings. Through almost the whole of the first half of the 

 century, the natural history work was patiently, zealously, creditably, 

 and interestingly occupied with collecting, describing, naming and 

 systematizing' the natural forms that could be found in near and 

 distant parts of the world. Since then, Darwin's great discovery of 

 the origin of species through natural selection, so sympathetically 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



appreciated at once by our Academy, has immensely enlarged the 

 scope and interest of the study, making it plain that all living species, 

 including man himself, have originated one from another; so that 

 all are but genetically consanguineous parts of one great whole, and 

 the study of one part is, therefore, more distinctly and surely a guide 

 to the complete understanding of the other so related, and thereby 

 more or less similar, parts. From a full consideration of this rela- 

 tionship may be deduced the strongest possible incentive to morality 

 and the clearest guide to its correct principles. 



We may perceive that natural history studies teach us that what 

 is aimed at is not the benefit and survival of each and every indi- 

 vidual, but the perpetuation and progress of the race, through the 

 success of its most vigorous, ablest, fittest, members. For, in fact, 

 not only are species derived from one another, so as to be but parts 

 of one whole; but a race is yet more closely a unit, the somewhat 

 varied outgrowth of a single progenitor, as the leaves and limbs of a 

 tree grow out from one stem; though, in some cases, detached, to be 

 sure, like the rooted limbs of a banyan tree separated from the 

 perhaps perished parent trunk, or the rooted runners of a strawberry- 

 plant, or of a walking-fern, or of any layered plant. The propaga- 

 tion by artificial grafting of a bud, or scion, on a kindred stock is 

 closely parallel, with some variation in character from the new stock. 

 The perpetuation by a seed, a specialized portion of the tree, with 

 the whole character of the tree concentrated in small compass, as 

 fully as in a bud or scion, and naturally detachable and capable of 

 growing in a favorable soil and temperature, is plainly no less an 

 outgrowth, a growing forward, of the parent tree, than is the growth 

 of a rooted limb, or runner, or a grafted bud or scion. In the case 

 of animals, the simplest forms, like the amoeba, merely divide in 

 halves, and each half grows forward, with equal claim to be the 

 identical parent stock; but, in more complex organisms, minute 

 specialized portions only of two parents, with the character of these 

 parents concentrated therein (as a plant's is in its seed), unite and 

 grow, when favorably situated, partaking of both characters, 

 as a scion grafted on a rooted stock is doubly affected. The 

 race, then, is the perpetuated individual, and all parts of the race 

 are, in some sort, one, identical, with its progenitor; and as all races 

 and species have been derived from one another, the oneness, or 

 identity, extends to all living beings. 



Surely, this identity is the highest incentive, as well as the best 

 guide, to morality. In the first place, it is seen that the true object 

 of morality is the benefit of the race, rather than of the individual; 

 though, of course, the individuals partake of the benefit. This view 

 makes the individual willing to die, if need be, for the true benefit 

 of his race. The appropriate instinct established by natural selec- 

 tion makes the mother, whethe%human or brute, fight with the utmost 

 courage or most ingenious cunning for the preservation of her young, ' 

 as, indeed, for her own perpetuation, for the life of what has been a 

 part of her own body, and is still no less a part of her, notwithstanding 

 its being detached. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Here, too, is the root of the more kindly features of the morality 

 taught by natural history, that fully counterbalance what may 

 often be thought the dominant and essential, but harsher, char- 

 acteristics of the instinctively selfish, sometimes fierce, struggle for 

 existence under natural selection, wholly incapable, it may seem, of 

 any connection with the gentle moral rules of conduct for men's 

 intercourse with men, which are now generally supposed to require 

 mild self-abnegation. To some degree among many of the lower 

 animals, but still much more in the human race, the weak and 

 defenceless young need for a time the protection and aid of the 

 parents. Any portion of the race that should have been deficient 

 in the instinct that provides such help would obviously have died 

 out; so that the instinct has become universal. This instinct, not 

 only unites in friendliness the parent and child, but tends to soften 

 the character of both, even with regard to outsiders, and makes 

 possible and probable more or less friendly intercourse between 

 brethren, and, by a sort of natural infection, between less closely 

 related men; and it is this feeling that has been at the bottom of 

 all systems of morality. 



The aim, in general, is not to favor one individual only, but to 

 give all an equal chance, to establish justice, in order to enable the 

 ablest, the fittest, to survive and perpetuate the race in the highest 

 vigor and best condition; while the weaklings and those possessed 

 of characters prejudicial to the healthful permanence of the race 

 shall tend to die out and disappear. Clearly, the success of the race 

 depends on the success of the fittest individuals in this struggle for 

 existence and justice. "A mush of concession," in which the indi- 

 vidual always yields everything, with a total eradication of seeking 

 for selfish advantage, would be as harmful to the prosperity and 

 eventual survival of the race, as would be an over-grasping selfishness 

 that would deny what is fair to every competitor. The race can 

 only progress through the benefit to individuals. Selfishness, then, 

 the desire for private gain, is not altogether wrong, but should be 

 enlightened, should avoid running to excess, by conceding, not only 

 justice, but (to insure against the possible exaggeration of one's own 

 ideas of what might be rightfully claimed) should yield something- 

 more than what, to the claimant, seems mere justice; that is, should 

 aim at nothing more than justice seasoned with kindness. This, 

 then, is the practical rule that natural history indicates for the 

 guidance of intercourse between men; and enforces it unswervingly, 

 impartially, and inexorably by the most effectual penalties for any 

 transgression, even to the shortening of life, or to the wretchedness 

 of a later generation, or the extermination of a family or tribe, with 

 as much certainty as the punishment for the violation of hygienic 

 laws. 



The incentive to high morality is particularly obvious to anyone 

 who realizes that his child is but an outgrowth from himself, that 

 it is, in fact, a part of himself. For he would perceive how important 

 it is that in this new life he should inherit the best possible charac- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



teristics from both himself and the child's mother, and should, 

 thereby, be able to start forward on his new career under the most 

 favorable physical and moral circumstances. The idea greatly 

 reenforces the natural instinct, sometimes dulled, or even wholly 

 perverted, towards family life, which has long been considered the 

 chief promoter, if not the very foundation, of morality. 



Evidently, natural history supplies the clearest principles and 

 most cogent motives for morality; and further and more precise 

 knowledge of the instinct of animals in their natural state (not so 

 much in the artificial, pampered, domesticated condition) may 

 sometimes yield important guidance towards detailed rules of con- 

 duct. Special applications of the principles (not according to mere 

 speculations, but to observed facts) are to be worked out, also, by 

 courts of justice, aided by schools, colleges and learned societies, 

 as the tendency has been for hundreds of years, especially among 

 the more logical nations. 



Natural history, then, teaches through the thorough unity and 

 consanguinity of all living things, that, besides sympathizing with 

 them all and perceiving how much may be advantageously learned 

 from them as our relatives and congeners, we must not merely 

 struggle with them and with each other for existence and the survival 

 of the fittest, to the benefit of the race, but for the same reason, 

 equally must aid in the protection of our weak immature ones, 

 strictly our second selves, and by this habit, or instinct, maintain 

 complete morality, under the strongest incentives, unerringly and 

 inflexibly guided by natural selection. 



Jacques Loeb, M.D., Ph.D., Sc.D.: " Experiments on Adaptation 

 to High Temperatures." (No abstract.) 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D.: ''Mimicry in Butterflies."* 



It has been stated that some of the females of the American species 

 of Papilio have gradually changed their appearance to resemble 

 Papilio philenor, a species which in the larval stage feeds on Aris- 

 tolochia serpentaria , a plant having a root poisonous to man. It is 

 therefore contended that in the imago stage this butterfly is nauseous 

 or poisonous to birds, and that +he birds, mistaking the edible species 

 for philenor, avoid them. 



The objections to this hypothesis are, that the records of birds 

 eating butterflies are very meagre, and there is no evidence to prove 

 that philenor is nauseous or poisonous to birds. 



It has been shown that plants may be poisonous to man, to some 

 other animals, and yet may be eaten by birds with impunity. 



The species said to be protected by their resemblance to Papilio 

 philenor are different in appearance in the two sexes and it is the 

 females that show this mimicry. These sexual differences are 

 termed antigeny and it is not unusual in the butterflies. It is due 

 to some general law and not in certain instances to so-called mimicry. 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



The evidence advanced to prove mimicry in the Papilios was 

 considered inconclusive. Other cases of so-called mimicry in the 

 butterflies were regarded as being brought about by environmental 

 conditions, such as vertical distribution and desert distribution. 



Spencer Trotter, M.D.: " The Faunal Divisions of Eastern North 

 America in Relation to Vegetation."* 



Vegetation is more directly concerned in the problem of faunal 

 distribution than are the factors of heat and moisture. These, of 

 course, control vegetation, but soil is a more important control factor. 

 Topography likewise exerts a considerable influence. Zonal 

 arrangement of faunas is unnatural. On this basis of the vegetation 

 control, the following outline of Faunal Areas is submitted as best 

 expressing the known facts: 



I. The Sub-Arctic Fauna. 



(a) Barren Ground Type. 



(b) Tree-limit Type. 



II. The Atlantic Forest Fauna. 



(a) Coniferous Forest Type. 



(b) Deciduous Forest Type. 



III. The Coastal Plain Fauna. 



(a) The Alluvial Forest Type. 



(b) The Marshland Type. 



(c) The Pine Barren Type. 



IV. The Grassland Fauna. 



(a) The Prairie Type. 



(b) The Steppe Type. 



V. The Plateau Fauna. 



(a) The Cactus Desert Type. 



(b) The Mountain Forest Type. 



T. Wayland Vaughan, Ph.D.: "Rate of Growth of Stony Ccrals." 

 Illustrated. (No abstract.) 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Ph.D. : "On the Tropical Element in the Mollus- 

 can Fauna of Florida."* 



A sketch of the successive non-marine faunas of the region was 

 given and the genesis of the several elements composing the molluscan 

 fauna was traced. A Mexican group of forms was recognized and 

 evidence was adduced to show that they entered southern Florida 

 at the close of Miocene or very early in Pliocene time. Antillean 

 species were held to be of later advent in Florida. The probability 

 that they had been carried from Cuba by hurricanes was discussed. 

 The various points were illustrated by lantern slides of shells and 

 maps. 



The session closed with a beautifully illustrated communication 

 on "The Photography of Wild Birds," by William L. Baily. (No 

 abstract.) * 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Adjournment until the following morning. 



A brilliant invitation reception was given in the evening by Dr. 

 Dixon, Mrs. Dixon, and Miss Dixon in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel 

 from 8 until 11 o'clock. 



Third Day, March 21. 



The meeting was called to order by the President at 10.30 A.M. 



The Chair referred to the fact that the late Dr. Montgomery had 

 been placed on the program for the first paper of the session under 

 the title "Human Spermatogenesis: Spermatocytes and Spermio- 

 genesis," but his funeral would take place to-morrow at 10.30 A.M. 



Edwin J. Houston, Ph.D., then made a communication on "How 

 the Natural Sciences can be made Attractive to the Young." 



If the natural sciences fail to interest the young, the fault is due 

 neither to the character of the subject nor the age of those whom 

 we wish to instruct, but to some faulty or illogical method of presen- 

 tation. The collections of the Academy present a fine opportunity 

 to interest the young in the natural sciences and they are doing this 

 now, but more could be done. The Academy encouraged and 

 assisted such men as Leidy, Cope, Morton, Rand, Tryon, Ryder, 

 Cassin, Parker, and many more, but it may have failed to develop 

 others. 



It is one thing to read about a natural object and another to 

 examine a carefully prepared specimen of it, still better to know it 

 by actually touching and handling it. The young should be en- 

 couraged to make collections for themselves. In order to insure 

 the best results, the aid of a teacher will be required. Lectures 

 specially arranged are a great help, and means should be taken to 

 encourage exchange, an endeavor being made to promote what 

 may be called chumminess among the collectors. Interest will 

 soon die if the young investigator has no companion. 



Suitable books are essential. They are not numerous. The 

 average books on the natural sciences cannot be used by children. 

 Dr. Houston had prepared a series of books, keeping in mind the 

 unwillingness of the child to read anything that looks like a school- 

 book. He had adopted the style of the Jules Verne stories and 

 endeavored to improve on it, making the work interesting while 

 being scrupulously careful to sacrifice no scientific truth. The 

 plan of these books was described in detail. 



The following communications were also made: 



James A. G. Rehn: "The Orthopteran Inhabitants of the Sonoran 



Creosote Bush, Covillea tridentata." 



The species of Orthoptera known to occur only on this bush were 

 shown to be six in number, representing three families and five 

 genera of the order. The remarkable color resemblance of certain 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



of the forms to portions of the plant was discussed and the distribu- 

 tion of the species within the range of Covillea stated. Certain 

 other species of the order very commonly found on the same shrub 

 were afso mentioned. Specimens of the host plant of all the peculiar 

 species and a map of the distribution of the creosote bush were 

 exhibited. 



Henry Fairfield Osborn, D.Sc, LL.D. : "Tetraplasy, a Law of the 

 Four Inseparable Factors of Evolution."* 



Upwards of twelve years of work on the group of fossil mammals 

 first made known by Joseph Leidy, which may now be known popu- 

 larly as the Titanotheres, had led to the conviction that vertebrate 

 palaeontology may concern itself with two great questions in evolu- 

 tion: 



(1) The origin of new characters. 



(2) The transformation of existing characters. 



Excluding any external agencies, we must seek such origins and 

 transformations either in: 



(1) Environment, physical or biotic. 



(2) Ontogeny, that is, in the development of the body, or soma. 



(3) Heredity, or in the development of the germ. 



(4) Selection, or in the competition between organisms. 

 Having reached in 1905 the conclusion that our quest for the 



origin and transformation of characters must be directed to one or 

 the other of these four factors, working individually or separately, 

 the author published in 1908 what he believes to be the most funda- 

 mental biological law, and termed it The Law of the Four Inseparable 

 Factors.* 



In nature each of these factors is in aHsense independent, with its 

 peculiar or intrinsic phenomena; in another sense dependent, or 

 intimately related to each of the other factors. 



It is a striking fact in the history of biology, from the middle of 

 the 18th century, that the particular factor upon which naturalists 

 have concentrated their attention has seemed to them the all- 

 important or all-sufficient factor. Thus Environment in the minds 

 of Buffon, or Semper, or Wagner appeared to be the efficient cause 

 of evolution. Similarly, Ontogeny in the minds of Lamarck, Spencer, 

 Cope, seemed to be the primary source of evolutionary change. 

 Again, Selection in the minds of Darwin and Wallace, combined 

 with hereditary fortuitous variation, seemed to possess the chief 

 constructive power in evolution. Finally, as the latest phase, 

 Heredity, as developed by Galton, Weismann, Mendel, De Vries, 

 and Bateson, has come to be regarded as the chief centre of trans- 

 formation. 



4 " The Four Inseparable Factors of Evolution, Theory of their Distinct and 

 Combined Action in the Transformation of the Titanotheres, an Extinct Family 

 of Hoofed Animals in the Order Perissodactyla." Science, N. S., Vol. XXVII, 

 No. 682, Jan. 24, 190S, pp. 14S-150. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



The interopcration of the four factors may be represented sym- 

 bolically by the letters E. 0. H. S. 



Returning to our original questions as to: (1) the origin and (2) 

 the transformation of characters, we first observe that there is the 

 following genera! relation: 



External Initiation Environment, E. 



Internal Genesis Ontogeny, O. 



Heredity, H. 



External Fixation Selection, S. 



All phenomena involving either the origins or the transformations 

 of character may be conveniently represented by the use of formula 

 composed of E, O, H, S. Similarly, all interpretations of changes of 

 character should be made with this interopcration of the factors in 

 mind. For example, in the matter of continuity or discontinuity, 

 we find that E, 0, H, S, must all be considered. Thus the " con- 

 tinuity in Heredity" of the germ plasm is no more vital than the 

 "continuity in Ontogeny," or "continuity in Environment," or 

 "continuity in Selection," because change or discontinuity in any 

 one of these three latter factors, E, 0, S, immediately or finally 

 results in transformation of character in H. 



Again, in experimental as contrasted with natural conditions we 

 observe the following: 



In experiment, 



Selection may be removed or altered. 

 Environment may be altered. 

 Ontogeny may be altered. 

 Heredity may be affected through E, 0, S. 



On the contrary, in nature, 



E, O, H, S, are constantly interoperative. 



Thus the tetraplasic law, first conceived in 1905, first expressed 

 in 1908, may now be expressed in 1912 as follows: The life and 

 evolution of organisms continuously centre around the processes which 

 we term Heredity, Ontogeny, Environment, and Selection; these have 

 been inseparable and interacting from the beginning; a change intro- 

 duced or initiated through any one of these factors finally results in a 

 genetic change. 



The conception of the individual, therefore, may be expressed in 

 the following diagram A: 



10 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



That is, the Ontogeny of the individual springs from its Heredity, 

 with its incessant reactions and origins, in response to its Environ- 

 ment. 



Similarly, Heredity is sooner or later in the history of a phylum 

 under the influence of the three factors, Ontogeny, Environment, 

 Selection, as represented in diagram B. 



This conception of the continuous interoperation of the four 

 factors in no way diminishes Heredity as the final seat of all genetic 

 change; either from the first or as a sequel to a long series of ante- 

 cedent interoperations, the seat of the origins and of the transforma- 

 tions of characters is certainly in Heredity. 



Thus so far as the present law is concerned, the problem of evolu- 

 tion is to determine the relation between the interoperation of the 

 four factors E, 0, H, S, and the final fixation of the results of this 

 operation in Heredity. 



Merkel H. Jacobs, Ph.D. : " Physiological Characters of Species." 



In the experiments, on which the paper was based, an attempt 

 was made to compare a number of organisms with regard to certain 

 of their physiological characters. The organisms selected were 

 twelve species of protozoa, viz., Paramecium caudatum, P. aurelia, 

 P. bursaria, Colpidium colpoda, Coleps hirtus, Blepharisma lateritia, 

 Euplotes patella, Vorticella nebulifera, Peranema trichophorum, 

 Euglena viridis, Chilomonas Paramecium, and Entosiphon sulcatum. 

 The character chiefly studied was the effect of carbon dioxide on the 

 movements and the general vitality of these forms. 



The experiments showed that each of the species in question 

 reacts to carbon dioxide in a characteristic manner and that each 

 has a general resistance to its toxic effects, which while varying to 

 some extent with different individuals and in different cultures, is 

 nevertheless fairly constant for the species. The most sensitive 

 form studied was found to be Coleps hirtus, which is killed, as a rule, 

 in three or four minutes, while Colpidium colpoda, the most resistant 

 form, under exactly the same conditions, remains uninjured after 

 many hours. Some forms were killed outright very quickly, while 

 others, although losing all power of movement within a few moments, 

 yet retained for a long time the ability to recover when again re- 

 stored to normal conditions. 



One of the most striking results obtained was the demonstration 

 of the difference in the effects of carbon dioxide on different elements 

 within same cell. In general, contractile structures (myonemes) 

 are paralyzed within a few seconds, while vibratile structures (cilia, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



membranelles, flagella) are affected only after a much longer time. 

 In Vorticella, for example, the power of contraction is lost in less 

 than a minute, while the membranelles may beat normally for three- 

 quarters of an hour or longer. Sometimes a converse relation in 

 the effect of carbon dioxide on these two classes of structures appears, 

 the contractile elements being first stimulated and then paralyzed 

 and the vibratile ones often temporarily stopped and then started 

 again. 



George Howard Parker, Sc.D.: "Sensory Appropriation, as 

 illustrated by the Organs of Taste in Vertebrates."* 



In addition to smell and taste, ordinarily regarded as chemical 

 senses, vertebrates possess a third sense which may be called the 

 common chemical sense and which is exemplified in man in the 

 sensitiveness of the mucous surfaces of the eye, nose, etc. Contrary 

 to the opinion of Weber, solutions of odorous substances introduced 

 into the human nose can be smelled. Hence Nagel's contention 

 that the nose of the water-inhabiting vertebrates is an organ of 

 taste rather than an organ of smell is unfounded and the recent work 

 of Parker and of Sheldon has shown conclusively that fishes scent 

 their food with the nose as air-inhabiting vertebrates do, i.e., the nose 

 in vertebrates, water-inhabiting as well as air-inhabiting, is a distance 

 receptor. A comparison of the chemical responses of catfishes, with 

 and without organs of taste, shows that the common chemical sense 

 is more closely related to the sense of taste than to the sense of smell 

 and that its receptors are the free-nerve terminations of certain 

 fibres in the spinal and cranial nerves. Of the three senses, smell, 

 taste, and the common chemical sense, the* most primitive is the 

 sense of smell, which probably represents the specialized and re- 

 stricted remains of a general chemical sense common to the whole 

 surface of the invertebrate ancestor of the vertebrates. By a 

 central migration of the cell body of these primitive olfactory 

 receptors of the general surface, the organs of the common chemical 

 sense were produced. These in turn appropriated groups of epider- 

 mal cells which in time became specialized into taste buds, and 

 thus arose the third and last of these chemical sense organs, the 

 organs of taste. 



John M. Macfarlane, Ph.D.: "The Relation of Protoplasm to 

 its Environment."* 



The simplest plants now living are the Schizophyceae and the 

 Schizomycetes, both composed of cells or cell chains with rich granu- 

 lar protoplasm, with or without a chromatophore, and either devoid 

 of a nucleus or with a granular chromatin rudiment of it. 



The species of the two groups now found in hot springs at tem- 

 peratures of 55°-75° C. are probably primitive types, alike on account 

 of their wide distribution over the world and their adaptation to 

 high temperatures. From these, there seem to have developed 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



forms that became acclimatized to cooler conditions, though the 

 thermophilic bacteria of soils, manure heaps, etc., still grow and 

 multiply at a high temperature and may be direct descendants of 

 hot spring species. 



The spores and even at times the mature plants of some fungi, 

 mosses, ferns and selaginellas can resist prolonged exposure to 

 55°-70° C. without injury, while 100° C. may not destroy the 

 vitality of the spores. Experiment has equally shown that spores, 

 or cells, of some of the above can be exposed to from 75° C. to — 150° C. 

 without loss of germinating capacity. Amongst flowering plants, 

 seeds have been exposed to from — 75° C. down to — 200° C. without 

 injury, while many species of tropical desert regions and of sub-arctic 

 or arctic regions show a range of temperature resistance from 75° C. 

 down to —65° C. An abundant protoplasm and stored food, 

 enclosed by thick mucilaginous or cuticular walls that can act as 

 regulators to environal changes, are all-important cell factors in 

 ensuring continued protoplasmic existence. The relative water 

 content of the cell, and the composition of the protein substances 

 that are included, are probably the main factors in limiting proto- 

 plasmic resistance. 



William H. Dall, A.M., Sc.D.: Mollusk-fauna of Northwest 

 America.* (No abstract.) 



The meeting adjourned at 1 P.M. for luncheon, and was called to 

 order again by the President at 2.20 P.M. 



Henry G. Bryant: ".Government Agencies in the Advancement 

 of Geographical Knowledge in the United States." Illustrated 

 by maps and charts. 



Attention was drawn to the importance of agencies such as the 

 U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey and the Geological Survey in 

 advancing geographical knowledge. While the picturesque aspect 

 of the subject represented by expeditions of exploration has received 

 attention, the quiet work of these organized forces of the govern- 

 ment is little known to the general public. In early days, the 

 Federal Government sent Lewis and Clark, Pike and Fremont to 

 investigate the western country. The work of these men and the 

 discovery of gold in California resulted in bringing about a fair 

 knowledge of the main physical features of the country by the 

 middle of the nineteenth century. 



The Coast Survey is the oldest bureau of applied science, and for 

 nearly a century has been engaged in surveying the coasts of the 

 United States. Its officials, co-operating with those of Canada, 

 are surveying the Alaska boundary, where conditions of unusual 

 hardship are encountered. The operations of this bureau have 

 included: A survey of the coast, deep-sea soundings, study of the 

 tides, and of the Gulf Stream, and of terrestrial magnetism. 




K)12.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Following the close of the Civil War and the rush of settlers to the 

 West, there came an imperative demand for a better knowledge of 

 the western country, which resulted in the organization of the U. S. 

 ( reological Survey in 1879. The geographical work of the Survey- 

 as illustrated by excellent topographical maps on various scales, and 

 our contribution to the great International Map of the World — was 

 referred to. 



The availability of all this material at a nominal cost has done much 

 to advance geographical knowledge. Other official agencies which 

 assisted were: The General Land Office, which issues numerous 

 maps; the Hydrographic Office of the Navy Department, which 

 publishes charts of foreign coasts and harbors, and the Map Collec- 

 tion of the Library of Congress at Washington, which was described 

 as the largest in this country. 



Witmer Stone, A.M.: "Fauna and Flora of the New Jersey Pine 

 Barrens." Illustrated by beautiful lantern pictures. 



Leisure time during the past fifteen years had been occupied in 

 collecting data upon the distribution of animal and plant life in the 

 coastal plain of New Jersey. There was a marked difference in the 

 fauna and flora of western and central New Jersey south of the fall 

 line, as compared with the Pine Barren area, and east of the 

 latter there existed a narrow strip bordering the maritime marshes 

 and recurring on the coast island, which possessed the same type of 

 plant and animal life as characterized west Jersey. The Cape May 

 peninsula belonged also mainly to this region, the Pine Barren 

 elements being only local. 



The historic associations of the Pine Barrens were considered, and 

 the plants discovered there by Bartram, Pursh, Rafinesque and 

 Nuttall were enumerated. In considering the change of conditions 

 in the region, stress was laid upon the constant increase in the extent 

 of cultivated cranberry bogs and the injurious effect of the winter 

 flooding upon various rare plants which inhabit the native bogs. 

 Abama americana, and Tofieldia racemosa were two species which 

 were seriously threatened in this way. Mr. Clifford Pinchot's theory 

 in regard to the origin of the stunted forest of the elevated region 

 known as the plains was endorsed. No difference could be detected 

 in the character of the soil of this region and other parts of the Pine 

 Barrens except in the greater coarseness of the sand and gravel, and 

 repeated forest fires seemed to have kept down the tree growth when 

 once the stunted condition had been produced. 



Numerous lantern slides illustrating the scenery and characteristic 

 birds and plants were exhibited showing the transition experienced 

 in crossing the coastal plain from Philadelphia to the coast. 



In the evening one hundred and sixty members, delegates, and 

 guests partook of an enjoyable banquet in the remodelled library 

 hall. Dr. Conklin acted as toastmaster and responses were made 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



by His Honor the Mayor; Moris, de Pulligny, the Director of the 

 French Commission of Engineers to the United States; Dr. Henry 

 Fairfield Osborn, of the American Museum of Natural History; the 

 President of the Academy; Dr. Theodore Gill, of the United States 

 National Museum; Dr. William J. Holland, of the Carnegie Museum, 

 Pittsburg; and Dr. Nolan. The celebration of the one hundredth 

 birthday of the Academy terminated with the singing of Aula 1 

 Lang Syne. 



The following were ordered to be published; 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



151 



PHENACOLEPAS MALONEI n. sp. 



BY E. G. VAN ATT A. 



Shell white, suborbicular. Apex moderately elevated, slightly 

 recurved, situated at the posterior fourth and to the right of the 

 median line. About 2 mm. from the smooth apex, fine raised radial 

 striae begin and increase in number to the margin where they number 

 about 150. The surface is covered with irregular concentric rows 

 of grains which become more regular near the margin, where they 

 form about 5 beaded costae completely encircling the shell. There 

 are 11 concentric linos of tubercles upon the posterior slope, 16 

 upon the right side, 22 upon the anterior slope and 17 upon the 

 left side. The posterior slope is nearly straight and slightly concave 

 near the apex, anterior slope convex, base slightly arcuate. Margin 



not crenulate. Interior with a slight pit under the apex; muscle 

 scar in the form of an irregular horseshoe, open in front, at which 

 point about 20 of the radial striae may be seen through the shell. 



Alt. 4.5, diam. 13.5, length 15 mm. 



In ballast from Santa Rosalia, L. California, collected by Mr. 

 J. G. Malone. Type No. 105,741 in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



This shell differs from granulosa Thiele by having the apex nearer 

 the posterior margin, posterior slope shorter, anterior slope more 

 convex, and regular concentric costae near the margin. P. malonei 

 is more orbicular and larger than P. navicelloides Cpr. ; and is smaller 

 than P. mirabilis Sby. with finer sculpture and the apex nearer the 

 posterior margin. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NOTE ON A COLLECTION OF FOSSILS FROM WILMINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA- 

 BY A. P. BROWN AND H. A. PILSBRY. 



During a recent visit to Wilmington, N. C, Mr. Joseph 

 Willcox collected a number of fossils from a quarry about one and 

 a half miles east of the city. 



The material is not well preserved, being mainly in form of internal 

 casts, yet as the horizon has received but little attention, we have, 

 at the request of Mr. Willcox, prepared the following list of species 

 identified. 1 



Lunulites distans Lonsdale. 



Flabellum cuneiforme Lonsdale. Cast. 



Scutella lyelliana Emmons. 



Echinolampas appendiculatus (determined by Prof. W. B. Clark). 



Terebratida ivilmingtonensis Lyell and Sowerby. 



Pecten membranosus Morton. 



Spondylus resembling gregalis Morton. Cast. 



CrassatellUes willcoxi n. sp. 



Cytherea profunda Conrad. Cast. 



Cyprcea resembling nuculoides Aldrich. Casts. 



"Voluta" sp. Cast. 



Vasum wilmingtonense n. sp. Cast. 



Aturia alabamiensis Conrad. Cast. 



Pleurotomaria nixa (Tuomey). 2 



Crassatellites willcoxi n. sp. PI. I, fig. 1. 



The shell is large, oblong, the anterior end evenly rounded, pos- 

 terior end subtruncate, beaks moderately elevated, at the anterior 

 two-fifths of the length; somewhat compressed, the diameter a 

 little less than half the length. Sculpture of rounded, subequal 

 concentric ridges separated by narrower sulci. The valves are 

 3 to 5 mm. thick, where edges are exposed by fracture. There is 

 no trace of a posterior ridge. The internal cast is smooth with very 



1 The fauna of the Wilmington beds was first, we believe, described by Professor 

 Tuomey in an article entitled, "Description of some Fossil Shells from the Tertiary 

 of the Southern States," Proc. A. N. S. Phila., VI, pp. 192-194, 1852. Professor 

 W. B. Clark has also treated briefly of it in Bull. Geol. Sue. of America, I, pp 

 538-9, 1890. 



2 This specimen, in the museum of the Wagner Free Institute of Science, 

 measures 7g inches in basal diameter. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE I. 



-*.» 



' 



■ 



{!***»' 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: FOSSILS FROM WILMINGTON, N. C. 





1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



faint traces of crenulation on the basal margin. The anterior adduc- 

 tor scar is raised in the cast and the posterior slightly sunken. 



Length 105, alt. (as broken) 88 mm. 



C. curta Conrad and C. conradi Whitfield, though very much 

 smaller, are similar to this species in contour, but both seem to be 

 smoother externally. C. littoralis Conrad is a similarly sculptured 

 species, but it is more inequilateral and far smaller so far as known. 

 C. vadosa Morton has the outline of C. willcoxi, except by its greater 

 compression. Most of the American Tertiary Crassatellites are longer 

 and more produced posteriorly than C. willcoxi. 

 Vasum wilmingtonense n. sp. PI. I, figs. 2. 3. 



This form is represented by an internal cast wanting the apical 

 whorls, apparently derived from a species shaped like V. haitense. 

 The conic spire diverges at an angle of about 80°, the crown of each 

 whorl being narrowly rounded. The last whorl is much less convex 

 above, being somewhat flattened and sloping to the rounded shoulder. 

 The periphery, viewed from above, is polygonal; the last three 

 angles on the last half whorl are prominent, but several on the first 

 half are barely perceptible. Below the shoulder the sides taper 

 to the narrow base, are a little swollen midway and contracted below 

 the shoulder and near the base. Four deep furrows indicate as many 

 stout columellar folds in the shell, the lowest one being somewhat 

 smaller. The length of the cast is 113 mm. and the greatest diameter 

 66 mm. 



In the absence of information as to the stratigraphic position of 

 the specimens, we cannot say whether this species occurred with 

 the preceding Eocene forms or, as seems more likely, in an overlying 

 bed. 



Correction. — The Editor regrets that, through an inadvertence, 

 the name of Charles Morris was substituted for that of Effingham 

 B. Morris on the Finance Committee (page 1). 



11 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



April 2. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Thirty-eight persons present, 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the following 

 papers : 



"Fixation of the Single Type (Lectotype) specimens of species of 

 American Orthoptera, Part II." By A. N. Caudell and Morgan 

 Hebard (March 28). 



"The Relation of Plant Protoplasm to its Environment." By 

 John Muirhead Macfarlane, D.Sc. (March 29). 



The Chair announced the death, February 26, of Graceanna Lewis, 

 a member. 



Dr. Henry Tucker made a communication on harmless and 

 useful snakes, illustrated by lantern slides. (No abstract.) 



The death of Thomas Harrison Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D., having 

 been announced at a previous meeting, the following minute, pro- 

 posed by Dr. Philip P. Calvert, was unanimously adopted: 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has heard 

 with deep regret of the death of Prof. Thomas Harrison Mont- 

 gomery, Jr., on March 19, 1912. 



Prof. Montgomery was a grandson of Samuel George Morton, 

 President of this Academy from 1849-1851, widely known for his 

 collection and studies of human craniology. To that ancestor we 

 may trace Montgomery's taste for natural history which led him to 

 study zoology in the University of Berlin (where he received the Ph.D. 

 in 1894) and to fill positions of instruction and research in the Wagner 

 Free Institute of Science, the Wistar Institute of Anatomy, the 

 Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory and the Universities of 

 Texas and of Pennsylvania. He was elected a member of this 

 Academy February 23, 1897. He served on the Committee of 

 Instruction and Lectures for 1903 and on the Committee on Accounts 

 from 1909. He was the first to respond to the invitation to contribute 

 to the Centenary Commemorative Volume and his memoir on 

 Human Spermatogenesis was the last paper completed by him, 

 although he did not live to read it at the anniversary meeting. 



Barely thirty-nine years old when he died, he would have been 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



justified in a feeling of pride in what he had accomplished. He had 

 made fruitful suggestions on the mechanism of inheritance based on 

 his studies of minute details of the structure of the germ cells; he had 

 investigated the anatomy of unsegmented worms, rotifers ; and spiders ; 

 he had made known many interesting habits of spiders and of birds ; 

 his breadth of outlook and of zoological knowledge was displayed in 

 his book on the analysis of racial descent in animals. 



From all that he had done we rightfully expected much to come 

 from his further researches, and our sorrow at his departure is made 

 keener by his fulness of promise. 



Moved that this be spread on the minutes of this meeting and that 

 the Corresponding Secretary send a copy to Mrs. Montgomery. 



April 16. 



Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D.. in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



The deaths of Miss Janes R. Haines, a member, November 11, 1911, 

 and of Prof. Rudolph Bastian, a correspondent, were announced. 



Dr. Spencer Trotter made a communication on some biological 

 aspects of population. (No abstract. )» 



The following resolutions were adopted: 



Resolved, That the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 finds much encouragement and stimulus in the expressions of cordial 

 congratulation and recognition of its labors that reached it on the 

 occasion of the celebration of the centenary anniversary of its founda- 

 tion. 



f Resolved, That the Corresponding Secretary be instructed to convey 

 to corresponding institutions and members an expression of the 

 Academy's warm gratitude for their appreciation and courtesy. 



The following were elected members: 



John Ashhurst. 



Seth Bunker Capp. 



Walter N. James, M.D. 



Philip F. Kelly. 



Cecilia Baldwin McElrov. 



A. V. Morton, M.D. 



William H. Newbold. 



Harold Peirce. 



Hon. John M. Reynolds. 



Samuel C. Schmucker. 



Harriet Newell Wardle. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



May 21. 

 Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Nineteen persons present. 



The meeting was held in conjunction with the Mineralogical and 

 Geological Section. 



The reception of the following papers was reported by the Publi- 

 cation Committee: 



"Further Experiments with Mutations in Eye-color of Drosophila: 

 The Loss of the Orange Factor," by T. H. Morgan (April 23). 



"Some Aboriginal Sites on Red River," by Clarence B. Moore 

 (April 29). 



"On the Radiation of Energy," by James E. Ives (May 9). 



"The Gorgonians of the Brazilian Coast," by A. E. Verrill 

 (May 10). 



"Tetraplasy, the Law of the Four Inseparable Factors of Evolu- 

 tion," by Henry Fairfield Osborn (May 18). 



"Apparent Sun-crack Structures and Ringing-rock Phenomena in 

 the Triassic Diabase of Eastern Pennsvlvania," by Edgar T. Wherrv 

 (May 20). 



"Lynmaea, Columella, and Self-fertilization," by Harold Sellers 

 Colton (May 21). 



The Triassic of Pennsylvania. — Dr. Edgar T. Wherry spoke of 

 the discovery of silicified wood, first described from Bucks County 

 at a meeting three years ago, at a number of new localities as far 

 west as Lancaster and York Counties. He also described observa- 

 tions along the north border of the area, where hills underlain by a 

 coarse conglomerate are believed to represent delta deposits of rivers 

 flowing from the north into the Triassic basin, although the large 

 size and distant source of many of the pebbles suggests the possible 

 activity of floating ice as a means of transportation. He further 

 discussed certain phenomena connected with the diabase of the 

 region, especially the formation of boulders and hexagonally arranged 

 crack structures.' 



Dr. F. Bascom made a communication on the lavas of South 

 Mountain, Pennsylvania. (No abstract.) 



The following were ordered to be published: 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



FIXATION OF THE SINGLE TYPE fLECTOTYPIC) SPECIMENS OF SPECIES OF 



AMERICAN ORTHOPTERA. 



DIVISION II. 

 BY A. N. CAUDELL and MORGAN HEBARD. 



The Species of North American Orthoptera Described by 



Andrew Nelson Caudell. 



The desirability of selection and fixation of a single type was 

 pointed out by the last International Entomological Congress, and 

 the first paper on this subject with reference to the North American 

 species of Orthoptera by Mr. James A. G. Rehn and the junior 

 author of the present paper has recently appeared in the Proceed- 

 ings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1912, pp. 60-128. 

 In the preface to that paper the subject is discussed and method of 

 selection of lectotypic specimens as followed in that contribution 

 explained. In the present paper the work is made easy, owing to the 

 fact that the author of all the species treated has selected from the 

 typical series that specimen for single type which he would have 

 selected at the time the species was described, had such action at 

 that time been customary. The type numbers of the United States 

 National Museum for Orthoptera are not available in fixing single 

 types, though they are given in the original descriptions of all new 

 species recently described or named from material belonging to that 

 institution. This is due to the fact that in the Orthoptera Collec- 

 tion these type numbers do not refer to a single type, or to the male 

 and female types of a species, but usually to the entire typical series. 

 Of the seventy-five species described by the senior author which are 

 found in North America, we find sixty-two single types in the United 

 States National Museum, seven in the Museum of the Brooklyn 

 Institute of Arts and Sciences, two in the Scudder Collection, and 

 one each in the American Museum of Natural History of New York, 

 the Saussure Collection, and the Morse Collection, while of one 

 species the typical series is lost. At the present day all of these 

 single types ?.re extant, with the exception of the one mentioned as 

 lost; those of the United States National Museum are in Riker 

 Mounts. The nomenclature given is that of the original description, 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



as this paper is not intended to be in any way revisionary. All 

 forms described by the senior author at the present date considered 

 valid, and also all synonyms, are here treated. 



Spongophora apicedentata. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 461, fig. la, 1905. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : figured cf ; Tucson, Arizona, January 

 14, on Giant Cactus, Cereus gigantea; H. G. Hubbard; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



Anaplecta abortiva. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 105, 

 1904. 



Described from a single female specimen from Esperanza Ranch, 

 Brownsville, Texas, August 4, [1904]; [Chas. Schaeffer]; 1 Mus. 

 Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Collection. 



HOMEOGAMIA BOLLIANA NIGRICANS. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 107, 

 1904. 



Based on several males from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cT ; Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, 

 Texas, June [1903]; [C. Schaeffer]; Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and 

 Sci. Collection. 



HOMEOGAMIA APACHA INFUSCATA. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 463, 1905. 

 Based on a single male from Phoenix, Arizona, June 4, 1904; 

 Dr. R. E. Kunze; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Latindia schwarzi. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. V, No. 2, p. 165, 1903. 



Described from three males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Madera Canyon, Santa Rita 

 Mountains, Arizona, July 7, 1898; E. A. Schwarz; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



DlAPHEROMERA ARIZONENSIS. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 877, 1903. 



1 The use of brackets in the present paper indicates authentic information 

 not contained in the original description. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Based on a unique male from Hot Springs, Arizona, June 28, 1901 ; 

 E. A. Schwarz and H. S. Barber; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



DlAPHEROMERA PERSIMILIS. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 107, 

 1904. 



Based on two males and one female from one locality. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Esperanza Ranch, Brownsville, 

 Texas, June [1903]; [Chas. Schaeffer]; Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts 

 and Sci. Collection. 



PSEUDOSERMYLE TRUNCATA. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 869, PI. LVIII, figs. 3-36, 1903. 

 Described from a single female from Dos Cabezos, Arizona, June, 

 1891; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



PSEUDOSERMYLE BANKSII. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 871, 1903. 

 Based on two males from different localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Brazos County, Texas, September; 

 N. Banks; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Bacunculus BLATCHLEYI. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIII, p. 212, 1905. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Starke County, Indiana; 

 W. S. Blatchley; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



HOPLOLIBETHRA TUBERCULATA. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 108, 

 PI. VI, figs. 1,2, 1904. 



Described from a unique female specimen from Esperanza Ranch, 

 Brownsville, Texas, June 25, [1903]; [Chas. Schaeffer]; Mus. Brook- 

 lyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Collection. 



Aplopus mayeri. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIII, p. 83, 1905. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Loggerhead Key, Dry Tortugas, 

 Florida; Dr. A. G. Mayer; Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. 

 Collection. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF |May, 



ACHURTJM MINIMIPENNE. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 110, 

 PL VI, Figs. 3, 4, 1904. 



Based on a unique female from Brownsville, Texas, April 22, [1903] ; 

 {Chas. Schaeffer] ; Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Collection. 



LlGUROTETTIX KUNZEI. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. V, No. 2, p. 162, 1903. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Phoenix, Arizona, Septem- 

 ber 10, 1902; Dr. R, E. Kunze; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Chimarocephala pacifica obttjsa. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VII, Nos. 2, 3, p. 124, 1906. 



Based on a single male from Monterey County, California, August, 

 1903; Coleman; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Chimarocephala pacifica incisa. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VII, Nos. 2, 3, p. 124, 1906. 



Based on material misidentified as Chimarocephala pacifica Thomas, 

 by Saussure; from one locality. 



Single type here designated: 9 ; California, Saussure Collection. 



Encoptolophus subgracilis. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. V, No. 2, p. 163, 1903. 

 Based on two males and one female from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Phoenix, Arizona, October 27, 

 1902; Dr. R. E. Kunze; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Lactista oslari. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 468, 1905. 

 Described from a unique male specimen from Nogales, Arizona, 

 July 3, 1903; E. J. Oslar; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Mestobregma gracilipes. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 471, fig. 5, 1905. 



Described from two males and two females from two localities. 



Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Huachuca Mountains, 

 Arizona, August 25, 1903; E. J. Oslar; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Mestobregma thomasi. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VI, No. 2, p. 125, 1904. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Based on material misidentified as (Edvpoda cincta Thomas, by 

 Bruner, Scudder, etc. 



Single type here designated; figured 2 ?; no data. Type lost. 



Ar.EOPTERYX PENELOPE. 



Can. EnL, Vol. XXXIII, p. 102, 1901. 



Based on a single female specimen from Prescott, Arizona, Septem- 

 ber 29, 1900; Dr. R. E. Kunze; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



PsiNIDIA SULCIFRONS 3 AMPLICORNUS. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 791, PI. LV, fig. 2, 1903. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique figured 9 ; Victoria, Texas, 

 June, 1902; Caudell; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Trimerotropis SCHAEFFERI. 



Mus. Brooklyn Inst. Arts and Sci. Bulletin, Vol. I, No. 4, p. 112, 

 PI. VII, fig. 1, 1904. 



Described from two males from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: figured d* ; Topo, near Brownsville, 

 Texas, May [1903]; [Chas. Schaeffer]; Mus. Brooklyn Inst, Arts 

 and Sci. Collection. 



Trimerotropis titusi. 



Proc. EnL Soc. Wash., Vol. VII, Nos. 2, 3, p. 125, 1906. 



Based on eight males and three females from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: d* ; Spreckles, Monterey County, 

 California, September 20, 1904, on sugar beets; E. S. G. Titus; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Heliastus benjamini. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVIII, p. 474, fig. 6, 1905. 

 Based on one male and two females from two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Huachuca Mountains, 

 Arizona, August 16, 1903; E. J. Oslar; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Heliastus sumichrasti subrosea. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVII, p. 951, fig. 3, 1904. 

 Based on a pair from a single locality. 



2 This figure is very good, excepting the fact that the wing has the transverse 

 band drawn too near its apex. 



3 This should be fenestralis, correction made, Can. EnL, Vol. XXXVIII, 

 p. 204, 1906. 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; Galveston, Texas,. 

 [April, 1903]; C. Schaeffer; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Heliastus guanieri. 



Proc. U. 8. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 794, PI. LV, fig. 3, 1903. 

 Based on specimens of both sexes representing two localities. 

 Single type here designated: figured 9 ; Pueblo, Colorado,. 

 October, 1877; G. F. Guanier; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Barytettix borealis. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. IX, Nos. 1-4, p. 69, 1908. 

 Based on two males and one female from probably two localities. 

 Single type here designated : <? ; base of Santa Catalina Mountains,. 

 Arizona, August 16, 1907; J. L. Webb; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



^EoLOPLUS BRUNERI. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VIII, Nos. 3, 4, p. 134, 1907. 

 Based on material misidentified as Caloptenus regalis Dodge, by 

 Scudder. Type located P. A. N. S. P., 1912, p. 76. 



Melanoplus brownii. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XXXIV, p. 169, 1902. 



Described from three pairs from one locality. 



Single type here designated : cf 1 ; few miles up Colorado River 

 from Yuma, Arizona, December 8, 1901, at head of dry slough; 

 Herbert Brown; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus coloradus. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 799, PI. LV, figs. 1, la, 1903. 

 Described from a single male from Palisade, Colorado, elevation- 

 4741 feet, July 8, 1901; Caudell; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus inconspicuus. 



Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXVII, p. 87, 1902. 



Based on a unique male from the Creek Nation, Indian Territory,, 

 near Arlington, Oklahoma, May 31, 1901; Mrs. Nellie Caudell; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Melanoplus latifercula. 



Proc. U, S. N. M., Vol. XXVI, p. 802, PL LV, figs. 4, 4a, 1903. 

 Based on a single male specimen from Cumbres, Colorado, eleva- 

 tion 10,015 feet, August 14, 1901; Caudell; U. S. N. M. Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



MELANOPLUS SONONLENSIS. 



Proc Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VII, Nos. 2, 3, p. 124, 1906. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique c? ; Glenellen, Sonoma 

 County, California, [September 18, 1904], on rocky hillside; E. S. G. 

 Titus; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



ASEMOPLUS RAINIERENSIS. 



Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., Vol. VIII, Nos, 3, 4, p. 134, 1907. 



Based on a pair taken in coitu from a large series of both sexes 

 from a single locality. 



Single type here designated: c? taken in coitu; Paradise Valley,. 

 Mount Rainier, Washington, July 31, 1906, in low, rank, green,, 

 grasses; Dyar and Caudell; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Amblycorypha iselyi. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIII, p. 50, 1905. 

 Described from two pairs from a single locality. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Wichita, Kansas, July [29 1 , 1904' 

 Professor Isely; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Paracyrtophyllus robustus. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIV, p. 36, PL I, figs. 1, 6, 1906. 



Described from three males and two females from one State. 



Single type here designated: figured d 1 ; Texas; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection. 



Cyrtophyllus elongatus. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIV, p. 40, 1906. 

 Described from a pair from two localities. 



Single type here designated : c? ; Fountain County, Indiana,. 

 August [12, 1904]; W. S. Blatchley; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Cyrtophyllus furcatus. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIV, p. 41, PI. I, fig. 9, 1906. 



Based on a single figured male specimen from West Point, Nebraska 

 [in Court House grounds], [in high trees], [late August, 1898]; [J. C 

 Crawford]; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Cyrtophyllus intermedius. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XIV, p. 41, PL I, fig. 8, 1906. 

 Based on a pair from different localities. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Single type here designated: unique figured d 71 ; Biloxi, Mississippi; 

 Alice Tracy; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



XlPHIDION ALLARDI. 



Ent. News, Vol. XXI, p. 58. 1910. 



Described from two pairs from one locality. 



Single type here designated: <? ; Tray Mountain, Towns County, 

 North Georgia, elevation 4,389 feet, late September, in low weeds 

 and short grass; H. A. Allard; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Neduba carinata convexa. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 300, fig. 10, 1907. 



Described from a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured c? ; Mount Shasta, California; 



Behrens; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Neduba morsel 



Proc. Ik S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 301, fig. 11, 1907. 

 Based on a unique figured male specimen from Mount Wilson [nee 

 Altadena], California, July 27, [1897]; A. P. Morse; Morse Collection. 



Rehnia victorle. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 306, figs. 14, 15, 1907. 

 Based on a unique figured male from Victoria, Guerrero, Mexico; 

 O. W. Barrett; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Behnia spinosa. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 307, figs. 16, 17, 1907. 

 Based on a unique figured male from Texas; U. S. N. M. Collec- 

 tion ex Bruner. 



Zacycloptera atripennis. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 309, figs. 18, 19, 1907. 

 Described from a unique figured male specimen from Hawthorne, 

 Nevada, June; Wickham; U. S. N. M. Collection ex Bruner. 



Capnobotes occidentalis uniformis. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 317, 1907. 



Described from a unique figured male specimen from Los Angeles 

 County, California, July; Coquillett; IT. S. N. M. Collection. 



Apote notabilis robusta. 



Proc. U S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 330, fig. 34, 1907. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Based on an unspecified number of specimens apparently from 

 Washington. 



Single type here designated: figured <? ; Rockland, Washington, 

 July 4, [1897]; W. K. Fisher; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Eremopedes balli. 



Can. Ent, Vol. XXXIV, p. 100, 1902. 



See Caudell, Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 335, 1907, for 

 correct limitation. 



Based on six males and two females from two localities in Arizona. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Williams, Arizona, July, 1901; 

 H. S. Barber and E. A. Schwarz; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Eremopedes (?) brevicauda. 



Proc. U. S. N. M.. Vol. XXXII, p. 336, fig. 39, 1907. 

 Described from a unique figured female from Xapa County, 

 California; H. Edwards; Am. Mus. Xat. Hist. Collection. 



Stipator bruneri. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 343, 1907. 

 Based on two males and five females from Texas. 

 Single type here designated: cf ; Texas, [July 141; Belfrage; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Orchesticus nigromarginata. 



Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXVIII, p. 89, 1902. 

 Described from a unique female from Texas, [January 5] ; Belfrage; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Stipator nigromarginatus griseis. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 347, 1907. 

 Based on a series from one or more localities. 

 Single type here designated: d 71 ; Haigler, Nebraska; Carriker; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection ex Bruner. 



Stipator grandis insignis. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 349, fig. 45, 1907. 

 Based on one male and three females from one locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique figured cf; Dallas. Texas ^ 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Stipator mitchelli. 



Can. Ent., Vol. XLIII, p. 137, fig. 7, 1911. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Based on a unique figured male from Hondo, Texas, March 30, 1908, 

 eating petals of Opuntia flowers; J. D. Mitchell; U. S. N. M. Col- 

 lection. 



Anabrus simplex nigra. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 355, 1907. 



Based on six males and eight females from four localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Eddy, Routt [nee Route] County, 

 Colorado; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Anabrus simplex maculatus. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 356, 1907. 



Described from eleven males and fourteen females from five 

 localities. 



Single type here designated: cf ; Fort Walsh, British Columbia, 

 September; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Anabrus cerciata. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 361, fig. 48, 1907. 

 Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Washington: Morrison; 

 TJ. S. N. M. Collection ex Bruner. 



Anabrus longipes. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 361, 1907. 

 Based on one male and two females from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: unique cf ; Pullman, Washington, 

 August; C. V. Piper; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Ateloplus minor. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 371, fig. 56, 1907. 



Based on a unique figured female specimen from Oracle, Arizona, 

 June 29, [1898]; E. A. Schwarz; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Ateloplus schwarzi. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 372, fig. 58, 1907. 

 Described from a pair from the same locality. 

 Single type here designated: figured cf ; Tinajas Altas, Arizona, 

 [1905]; McGee; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Ateloplus luteus. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 373, fig. 59, 1907. 

 Based on a pair from the same locality. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



Single type here designated: unique figured cT ; Mohave, Arizona; 

 Wickham; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Idiostatus rehni. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 382, fig. 70, 1907. 



Based on two males and one female from one locality. 



Single type here designated: figured <? ; Siskiyou County, Cali- 

 fornia; A. Koebele; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Idiostatus elegans. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 384, figs. 71, 72, 1907. 



Described from a pair from Nevada. 



Single type here designated: unique figured cf ; [Reno], Nevada; 

 F. H. Hillman, [June 15, 1890]; U. S. X. M. Collection ex Bruner. 



Idiostatus variegata. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 387. 1907. 

 Based on a unique female from Pocatello, Idaho; U. S. N. M. 

 Collection ex Bruner. 



Plagiostira albonotata brevipes. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 392, 1907. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique c? ; Williams, Arizona, 

 July 24, 1901, on sagebrush; H. S. Barber: U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Plagiostira gillettei. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 392, fig. 77, 1907. 



Described from a unique figured male specimen from Grand Junc- 

 tion, Colorado, June 20, 1905; C. P. Gillette: U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Idionotus brevipes. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 396, fig. 81, 1907. 

 Described from a single figured male from Arctic America; Kenni- 

 •cott; Scudder Collection. 



Platycleis fletcheri. 



Proc.U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 403, fig. 87, 1907. 



Described from a unique female from Calgary. Assiniboia, Canada, 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Clinopleura minuta. 



Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXXII, p. 402, fig. 86, 1907. 

 Based on two pairs from a single locality. 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May ; 



Single type here designated: figured cf ; Calaveras [County], 

 California; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Cyphoderris monstrosus piperi. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XII, p. 53, 1904. 



Based on one adult male and two female nymphs from a single 

 locality. 



Single type here designated : unique cf ; Paradise Valley, Mount 

 Rainier, Washington, elevation 6,000 feet, in grove of Alpine fir; 

 C. V. Piper; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Marsa tuberculata. 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XXXIV, p. 79, 1908. 



Based on a pair from the same locality. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Eureka, California, 

 July 5, 1906, under loose bark of old tree near ground; Caudell; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



Daihinia phrixocnemoides. 



Ent. News, Vol. XVIII, p. 11, figs. 1, la, 1907. 



Described from a unique figured female specimen from Mesilla 

 Park, New Mexico, August 12, 1898; Cockerell; U. S. N. M. Col- 

 lection. 



N EMOBIUS FASCIATUS ABORTIVUS. 



Can. Ent, Vol. XXXVI, p. 248, 1904. 



About three dozen specimens of both sexes from one locality. 



Single type here designated : cf ; Moose Jaw, Assiniboia, August 

 24, 1903, in grass, in and along borders of draw on prairie; Caudell; 

 U. S. N. M. Collection. 



MlOGRYLLUS OKLAHOMA. 



Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXVIII, p. 90, 1902. 

 Based on a single male specimen from Perkins, Oklahoma, May 16, 

 1901; Mrs. Nellie Caudell; U. S. N. M. Collection. 



CYRTOXIPHA COLUMBIANA. 



Jn. N. Y. Ent. Soc, Vol. XV, p. 237, 1907. 

 Based on a pair from different localities. 



Single type here designated: unique cf ; Falls Church, Virginia, 

 September 14, 1907; N. Banks; U. S. N. M. Collection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



APPARENT SUN-CRA.CK STRUCTURES AND RINGING-ROCK PHENOMENA IN 

 THE TRIASSIC DIABASE OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY EDGAR T. WHERRY, PH.D. 



The rocks deposited during the Triassic period in eastern North 

 America, variously known as the New Red, Newark, and Jura-Trias, 

 •cross the State of Pennsylvania in a northeast-southwest strip 

 averaging twenty miles in width. While they have in the past been 

 the subject of considerable investigation, some of their most interest- 

 ing features are as yet undescribed. 1 



About the middle of the 20,000 feet of sediments representing the 

 period in Montgomery County there occurs a sill of diabase, which, 

 although greater in size than the Palisade sheet of New Jersey, has 

 attracted far less attention since it does not happen to be so located 

 as to give rise to striking scenic effects. The total length of outcrop 

 of this sill being over 40 miles, it would be strange if there were not a 

 few exposures of its contact relations with the sediments, even in the 

 absence of a great metropolis nearby as an inducement for railroad 

 companies to pierce it by numerous cuts and tunnels; and, in fact, 

 its upper contact has been observed at several localities northeast 

 of the city of Pottstown. The rock surfaces exposed at these places 

 by the removal of the metamorphosed shale beds present a rather 

 startling appearance, being crossed by a rudely hexagonal network 

 of light-colored lines, closely resembling sun-cracks such as are 

 frequently found in the sediments. The best exposure, a photograph 

 of which is shown in figure 1, Plate II, is on the east side of a road, 

 opposite the house of Alexander C. Minshall, one-half mile north of 

 Neiffer Post Office, which lies about three miles north of Limerick 

 Square and two miles west of Zieglersville. 



1 The writer has been engaged for several years in studying the portion of this 

 area lying east of the Susquehanna River, and has previously published two 

 papers upon it: "The Newark Copper Deposits of Southeastern Pennsylvania," 

 Econ. Geol., Ill, 726-38, 1908; and "Contributions to the Mineralogy of the 

 Newark Group in Pennsylvania," Thesis, University of Pennsylvania, 1909, 

 Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Science, VII, 1-23, 1910. An abstract of this paper 

 was read at the Pittsburgh meeting of the Geological Society of America, Decem- 

 ber, 1910, and published in Bull. Geol. Soc. Amer., XXII, 718, 1911; and in 

 completed form it was presented at the meeting of the Academy in association 

 with the Mineralogical and Geological Section, May 21, 1912. 

 1! 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



There can be no question, however, as to the igneous origin of the 

 rock. When studied in thin section it is found to consist of inter- 

 lacing laths of labradorite surrounded by augite similar to the contact 

 facies of Triassic diabases which have been described elsewhere. 2 

 The lines turn out to be dikes, composed of coarser crystals of 

 the same minerals (fig. 3, Plate II). These dikes vary from \ to 5 mm. 

 in thickness, and penetrate into the rock to depths of several centi- 

 meters, gradually losing their identity as the size of grain of the 

 background increases. 



The explanation of this occurrence is apparently to be found in the 

 tendency of magmas to contract on solidifying, exemplified in the 

 well-known columnar structure of many basalts. In the course 

 of the intrusion of the magma the outer portions were rapidly chilled 

 by the cold wall-rocks, and solidified in correspondingly fine-grained 

 form. At the same time there developed, perpendicular to the 

 contact surfaces, hexagonally arranged shrinkage cracks. Into these 

 the still liquid material beneath found its way, but since in the 

 meantime the surroundings had become heated, cooling was now less 

 rapid and larger crystals were formed. 



The boulders which everywhere characterize the diabase areas 

 often show on their surface a hexagonal-crack effect resembling at 

 first sight that just described (fig. 2, Plate II). The two phenomena 

 are, however, quite distinct, for thin sections of the rock beneath 

 these cracks fail to indicate the existence of any structural peculiarity 

 (fig. 4, Plate II), and the cracking is evidently caused by expansion 

 of the surface layers during the exfoliation of the boulders under the 

 action of frost. 



The striking similarity of these two effects to one another, and of 

 both to sun-cracks, is due, then, to the fact that all three have their 

 origin in tension exerted' uniformly in a plane, the normal result of 

 which is, as is well known, the development of cracks at approximate 

 angles of 120 degrees. 



The blocks of diabase are occasionally collected into "boulder 

 fields" — in Germany termed Felsenmeere, or rock seas — tracts often 

 an acre or more in extent, which are practically barren of vegetation 

 (because of the absence of soil), in striking contrast to most of the 

 surrounding region (fig. 7, Plate II). Many of the boulders ring like 

 a metal when struck, and under the name of "ringing-rocks" have 

 attracted considerable attention from the inhabitants of the neighbor- 



2 Lewis, J. V.: Ann. Rept., State Geol, New Jersey, 1907, 115, pi. XVI. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



hood, many a fantastic theory having been advanced to account for 

 their formation. The principal localities of these ringing-rock fields 

 are: 



Narrows ville, Bucks County, on the edge of the plateau south of 

 the Delaware River, 3 miles east of Kintners ville. 



Shelly, Bucks County, 2\ miles northeast of the railroad station. 



Spring Mount, Montgomery County, east of the Perkiomen Creek, 

 one mile above Schwenksville. 



Ringing Rocks Park, 2 miles northeast of Pottstown. 



Blue-Rocks, 1 mile east of Elverson Station, Chester County. 



Although most of these places are rather widely known and are 

 frequently visited by outing parties, curiously enough no scientific 

 description of them appears to have ever been published. 



The manner of formation of the large rounded rock masses known 

 as boulders, as described in text-books of geology, is as follows: 

 The solid rocks at or near the earth's surface are travi rsed by numer- 

 ous cracks, or "joints," usually intersecting in such a way as to divide 

 them into roughly rectangular or rhomboidal blocks. Rain water, 

 percolating downward along these joints, attacks and gradually 

 decomposes the rock constituents, but since at the intersections of 

 planes the action can take place in several directions at once, edges 

 yield twice, and corners three times as rapidly as the flat surfaces, 

 and as a result the ultimate shape attained by the blocks is that of a 

 spheroid (fig. 8, Plate II). 



Boulders thus developed usually remain surrounded by weathered 

 rock fragments or the derived soil; but when running water finds its 

 way around them, this finer material may be removed, leaving them 

 exposed to view. Study of the above-mentioned occurrences has 

 shown that this explanation is adequate to account for their forma- 

 tion. The boulder fields are always found at or near the base of the 

 sheet of igneous rock, where the intensely metamorphosed underlying 

 sediments form an impervious pavement over which streams of water 

 flow; this can sometimes be heard, or even seen, through spaces 

 between the blocks. Their exact position is determined by local 

 conditions, such as the dip of the strata, which apparently must be 

 less than 30°, the configuration of the hills, which affects the flow of 

 the streams, and perhaps other factors. But the point calling for 

 particular emphasis, in view of the popular opinion about the matter, 

 is that there has been absolutely no " upheaval" or other violent 

 disturbance to bring the boulders together, but that they have, 

 quite to the contrary, been formed by the gradual breaking up and 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



washing away of material from the solid rocks originally occupying 

 the ground. 



The cause of the ring of the boulders when struck is no doubt to be 

 sought in the peculiar rock texture. As seen in thin sections (fig. 5, 

 Plate II), the feldspar crystals interlace to form a close network in 

 which sound waves can readily develop. But this alone is not 

 sufficient — the boulders must also be supported so as to be able to 

 vibrate freely, just as is necessary with a bell, for thin sections of 

 two of them found side by side, one ringing finely, the other not at all, 

 show absolutely no textural difference (figs. 5 and 6, Plate II), but 

 the former was loosely supported, and the latter wedged firmly, 

 between other blocks. 



It is to be concluded, then, that the "ringing-rocks" consist of 

 boulders formed in the places where they are found by simple, normal 

 processes of weathering and that their ringing qualities are due to 

 the texture of the diabase rock of which they are composed. 



Explanation of Plate II. 



Fig. 1. — Sun-crack-like structure, upper surface of diabase sill, north of Neiffer 



P. O., Montgomery County, Pa. 

 Fig. 2. — Boulder of diabase showing exfoliation cracks, near summit of Spring 



Mount, Montgomery County, Pa. 

 Fig. 3. — Thin section of the rock of fig. 1, showing fine-grained diabase traversed 



by more coarsely crystallized dike. Crossed nicols. X 20. 

 Fig. 4. — Thin section beneath an exfoliation crack, showing uniform size of 



grain, the lighter color along the crack being due to decomposition of 



augite, etc. Ordinary light. X 20. 

 Fig. .5. — Thin section of a rock yielding fine ring, Ringing Rocks Park. The 



banded crystals are plagioclase feldspar, the gray patches chiefly augite. 



Crossed nicols. X 20. 

 Fig. 6. — Same, from a boulder adjacent to the preceding, which failed to ring; 



entirely similar as to minerals and structure. 

 Fig. 7. — Boulder field, Ringing Rocks Park, northeast of Pottstown, Montgomery 



County. 

 Fig. 8. — Boulder formation in diabase, quarry at St. Peters, Chester County, Pa. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



LYMNJEA COLUMELLA, AND SELF-FERTILIZATION. 

 BY HAROLD SELLERS COLTON. 



The following paper is a preliminary study of the pond snail, 

 Lymncea columella Say, with the particular view of its furnishing 

 material for the study of genetics. We should look to this form 

 because of the probability that when isolated from one another, 

 the eggs that are laid are self -fertilized. No studies have yet been 

 made on animals that reproduce by self-fertilization, so that, as 

 pointed out by Jennings, 1911 B, no work on animals can be directly 

 compared with that on plants. 



Notwithstanding the many means by which hermaphroditic 

 animals prevent self-fertilization, a number of cases are well 

 known where normally self-fertilization does occur. As an example 

 of this the following groups may be quoted: Rhabdocoel Turbel- 

 larians, Sekera 1906; Polystomum, Zeller 1876 j 1 the digenetic Trema- 

 todes, Leucart, v. Siebold, Zaddock, Voeltzkow, and others; the 

 Cestodes, Loess, Carlisle, Schultze, Bellingham, van Beneden, 

 Pagenstecher, Leuekhart, 2 and others; the Ascidians Cynthia and 

 Molgula, Morgan 1904; Botryllus, Pizon 1893; and the pond snail 

 Lymncea. 



This paper will not discuss the adaptability of the material from 

 the Flat Worms or the Ascidians for breeding experiments. Parasites 

 and marine animals furnish great difficulties at the outset for such a 

 study, and Rhabdocoels reproduce also asexually, so we will turn at 

 once and consider the case of the pond snail. 



The first point to be determined is: Does Lymncea self -fertilize 

 its eggs? Oken (1817) 3 isolated an individual adult Lymncea. After 

 an interval of some months this snail laid fertile eggs. Oken con- 

 cluded that this was a case of self-fertilization. Von Hiring (1876) 

 showed how in many gastropods, Helix, for example, a long period, 

 as much as a year, may intervene between copulation and egg-laying. 

 Because of this he did not consider Oken's experiment of any value. 



1 See Bronn, 1899 and 1900. 



2 See Bronn, 1899 and 1900. 



3 See Braun, 1888. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



In the meantime von Baer (1835) reported an observation which 

 seemed to confirm Oken's view. He actually saw Lymncea auricu- 

 laria with -own penis inserted in its own female opening. Braun 

 (1888) isolated eggs of Lymncea auricularia in separate vessels and 

 raised the young snails which when they reached adult size laid 

 eggs which developed. Although this author had the snails under 

 observation for weeks and months at a time, he never was able to 

 confirm von Baer. Nevertheless, he did not doubt that von Baer was 

 correct in what he saw. The present writer has repeatedly isolated 

 eggs and had them develop into snails which laid fertile eggs, but has. 

 never witnessed a case of self-copulation. 



There is the alternative that must be disposed of : Can it be that 

 these eggs are not self-fertilized, but that they develop partheno- 

 genetically? This question cannot as yet be fully answered. To be 

 sure, normal parthenogenesis is unknown in mollusks, but direct 

 evidence on the case in Lymncea is lacking. The reduced number of 

 chromosomes in maturation of the sperm is small, six to eight, but 

 as yet the writer has been unable to satisfactorily imbed the eggs so 

 that they may be cut. As yet he has been unable to observe the 

 first cleavage figures. 



An examination of the reproductive organs of the snail will show 

 that there is no reason why self-fertilization should not occur. This 

 system is a complicated one in the lung-bearing mollusks, and 

 Lymncea is no exception to the rule. The eggs and sperm arise side 

 by side in a common ovitestis. When ripe both eggs and sperm pass 

 down a common hermaphrodite duct. Into this duct the albumen 

 gland opens, the function of which is to secrete around the egg a 

 thick coat of albumen. This is the substance which makes the eggs 

 so difficult to imbed. Past this point the duct divides into a thread- 

 like vas deferens with wider portion called the prostate gland, and 

 a thicker-Availed oviduct. The former leads finally to an invertible 

 penis just back of the tentacle on the right side of the animal, while 

 the oviduct opens somewhat to the exterior somewhat posterior to 

 the former with a narrow slit. Into the oviduct near its aperture 

 opens the duct from the so-called sperm receptacle, in which the 

 writer has never found sperm, but in which very often he has found 

 eggs. He hopes to deal with this matter at another time. 



The reason for describing in some detail the reproductive organs 

 of this animal is to make clear that there is every piece of mechanism 

 present to allow self-fertilization. If the eggs are not fertilized in the 

 upper part of the oviduct, they may be by self-copulation in the 

 lower part. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



The fact that self-copulation had been observed by no other 

 observer than the great von Baer, the fact that a case of partheno- 

 genesis is as yet unreported in the group of the mollusks, together 

 with the fact that there is every arrangement present in the animal 

 to make self-fertilization possible — all these seem to the writer suffi- 

 cient evidence that the chance that parthenogenesis plays a part is 

 remote. This must not be taken as precluding this remote possi- 

 bility. 



Are these animals easy to handle in a breeding experiment? This 

 question may be answered, on the whole, yes. 



In 1908 the writer (Colton, 1908) published the results of a series 

 of experiments on the pond snail Lymncea columella, showing the 

 effects of various external conditions upon the growth. Among 

 other things, the writer found how easy it is to raise Lymncea from 

 the egg under ordinary laboratory conditions. They will live in as 

 little .as 500 cc. of water and require next to no care. Philadelphia 

 city water from the tap was found to be fatal to the young snails, 

 but the same water, after standing in a large aquarium for some 

 time, could then be used. In his experiments this winter even 

 this water proved fatal, so that water had to be procured from 

 the nearby pond in the Botanical Garden of the University. In 

 the previous experiments a water plant, Myriophyllum. and a little 

 soil seemed to offer the optimum conditions for growth, aeration 

 being neglected. This winter the writer has had the best results in 

 using dead leaves of trees from the bottom of the pond referred to 

 above. These were washed in running tap water as a precaution 

 against introducing young snails from the pond. The best results 

 are now procured by using about 700-1000 cc. of pond water in a 

 battery jar and placing in this a half-decayed leaf, such as a maple 

 leaf. One snail only is of course placed in the jar. 



The length of time that it takes from hatching to egg-laying 

 varies greatly. As the cause of this variation is not understood 

 at all, it will be at the present time worth while to mention only 

 some of the cases. Thirteen had the following interval from hatch- 

 ing to egg-laying: 32, 26, 35, 49, 58, 92, 50, 50, 56, 57, 63, 74, and 

 74 days. Twenty-six days was the shortest interval. This shows, 

 even if we neglect the shortest periods, how surprisingly rapid is 

 the growth. As. for ease of handling in a laboratory, Lymncea 

 columella is seen to furnish splendid material. They require little 

 care, little space, and come to maturity promptly. 



What are the characters that distinguish the various species and 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May,. 



varieties of Lymncea from one another, and what is the character of 

 the variation within one species? 



The most recent work on the systematic relationships of the 

 various species and varieties of Lymncea is the monograph on the 

 group by F. C. Baker (1911). This writer recognizes one hundred 

 and two recent species and varieties which he distributes through 

 six genera as follows: Lymncea, two species and three varieties; 

 Radix, one species; Bulimncea, one species; Acella. one species; 

 Galba, fifty-eight species and twenty-eight varieties. The characters 

 on which these genera are distinguished from one another are as 

 follows : the relative size of portions of the male reproductive organs, 

 whether there are one or two penis sac retractors; whether there 

 are two or three cusps on the lateral teeth; proportions of the jaws, 

 length of the spire, axis of the shell gyrate or not, sculpture of the 

 surface, etc. It will be noticed that all these characters, with the 

 exception of two, are purely quantitative. The character of the teeth 

 is a qualitative difference to which the author attributed little 

 importance, as his Galba obrussa has the same type of radula as his 

 Pseudosuccinea columella when the latter is half-grown. There is 

 no qualitative difference between the radulse of the adults. Many 

 Galba have tri- and other Galba have bi-cuspid lateral teeth. Of 

 the one hundred and two species and varieties, of but thirty-two did 

 the writer know aught of the anatomy of the reproductive organs. 

 Nothing is apparently known of the internal anatomy of the type 

 species of the genus Galba, that is, Galba tnmcahda Muller. Since the 

 important characters in describing the genera are purely quantitative, 

 the present writer feels that he cannot accept these genera and will 

 for the present consider the old genus Lymncea as including them all. 

 When we know more, some genera may, perhaps, be farther separated. 

 Not being a systematist, the author cannot criticise this work and he 

 is very thankful that someone has taken the trouble to examine all 

 the literature and the species of this interesting group, bringing it 

 together in one work. 



The individual species are separated one from the other by quanti- 

 tative differences in the shell characters, body characters, by color, 

 and where known the genital organs, the radula, and jaw. This 

 roughly outlines the sort of variation that takes place within the 

 genus. Within a single species what can we look for? 



In the present case, where selection is hoped to be practiced, 

 characters visible on the exterior can alone be considered. This 

 forbids us at the outset dealing with any characters of the internal 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



177 



organs. In the snail the shell at once presents itself. So far we 

 have considered the shell alone. 



Adams, 1900, made a careful study of the fresh-water prosobranch 

 mollusk Io taken from many stations on the same watershed. He 

 measured the height of the spine, the length of the aperture and 

 width of the shell. In the present study three characters were also 

 measured. These were chosen so that when their ratios were plotted 

 a picture of the average shape of 

 the shells of the colony from which 

 the collections were made would re- 

 sult. 



The length of. the spire of the shell 

 may be expressed by the ratio — 

 altitude to length of aperture. See 



AT) m 



fig. 1, where ^ this ratio. The 

 width of the shell may be expressed 

 roughly in terms of a ratio, length 

 of the aperture to the width. The 



AD 



former ratio g^ we will refer to as 

 the ratio, and the latter ratio we will 

 refer to as the index. 



Using the measurements furnished 

 by Baker, 1911, which are prob- 

 ably measurements of extreme in- 

 dividuals, calculating their index 

 and ratio and plotting them, using 

 the index as an ordinate and the 

 ratio as the abscissa, when these Fig. 1. 



are enclosed by a line, then we 



have a rough picture of the shape of the shell. Fig. 2 shows such 

 a picture and the dark oval represents Lymnwa columella as it occurs 

 about Philadelphia as compared with some forms taken from Baker's 

 measurements. 



The writer made a number of collections of Lymncea columella 

 from some ponds and streams about Philadelphia, and also examined 

 several series in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 4 The three characters referred to above were measured 

 with proportional dividers, the index and ratio were calculated and 

 plotted in groups. Fig. 3 shows a number of these collections. The 



4 The writer wishes to thank Dr. H. A. Pilsbry, of the Academy of Natural 

 tSciences, for many courtesies. 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



probable error of the single ratio and index was calculated. These 

 were based on twenty measurements of the three characters from a 

 single'shell. 5 The result of this was a probable error of ±.04 for 



Fig. 2. 



the index and ±.01 for the ratio. The probable error of the index 

 was greater as this character was more difficult to measure. H. B. 



See Mellor (1905), pp. 515-520. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



179 



Co 



o 



z 

 o 



r\ 



n 



? 





o 





"3 



O 





c 







o 



o 



2 



D 



c 



o 



§^ 



-t 

 o 



> 



•a m 



r 



o 





© 



C5v 

 O 



> 

 .< 



^> 



-Cs. 



> 



o 

 C 



w 



a a • 

 • aa 



a • 

 a* a 

 a a 



aa a 

 • »a 



n 

 i 

 o 

 > 



) — 

 y 



n 



Z 



o 



- 







> Z 



h 





Co 

 O 



© 



^ 



^ 



5? 



5> 



fr 



© 



o 



o 



*• N °° "~S 

 ^> ©; o o 



o 



o 







I*. 



> 



< 



9 



So 



a • 



a 

 a a 



aaa 



a 

 aaa 







© 





"S 



-5k - 

 o 





Fig. 3. 




180 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Baker (1910) found in Lymncea rejiexa that the length-breadth ratio 

 of the shell increased with the length of the shell. That is, the 

 larger shell had the higher ratio and therefore a higher spire. Tables 

 I and II show this relationship in Lymncea columella from about 

 Philadelphia and on both tables the length in millimeters is the 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



181 



ordinate. The index on Table I is the abscissa. On Table II the 

 ratio is the abscissa. Table I shows that the larger shells have a 

 narrower aperture, which agrees with H. B. Baker, but Table II 

 shows that the height of the spire is about constant at all ages. On 

 both tables no conclusions can be based on shells under eight milli- 

 meters, for two reasons : the numbers of shells are too small and the 

 probable error of each ratio is too large. It may be as much as ±.10 

 on the part of the index and ±.05 for the ratio. 



Remembering, then, that the larger shell may have a narrower 

 aperture, then we may look over fig. 3. In this the Cedar Lake 

 collection and the Wingohocking Creek collection both have narrow 

 apertures, but the former has an average shell of 9.44 mm., while 

 the latter has an average shell length of 17.37. The size of the shell 

 cannot influence, then, the characters in question in this case. The 

 other diagrams tell their own story and seem to show that each 

 restricted area has its own type of shell as far as these two characters 

 are concerned. The numbers are far too small on which to base 

 many conclusions. 



Fig. 4. 



There were .hatched during the past winter from an egg capsule 

 laid by a snail from the Sixty-seventh Street and Elmwood Avenue 

 collection thirty-two snails, of which eighteen lived to be measured. 

 These were kept together in 1,000 cc. of water in a crystallizing dish. 

 They were measured from time to time. From two of these meas- 

 urements, an early one and a late one, 37 days and 78 days, respect- 

 ively, fig. 4 was compiled. 



The probable error of the individual 37 days old measurements, 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



which were made with the camera lucida, were index ±.10, ratio- 

 ±.05. These were so much larger in the case of the small shells 

 because of the difficulty in orienting them in exactly the same plane 

 at the time of measurement. 



The range of the offspring are almost the same as that of the parent 

 colony. This is only significant as showing what we may expect 

 when we are able to deal with larger numbers in a more precise 

 manner. 



Baker (1911) observed copulation between different individuals of 

 Lymncea stagnalis, Lymncea emarginata and Lymncea lanceata. Several 

 times L. emarginata tried to copulate with L. lanceata, & much smaller 

 animal. Baker saw also L. stagnalis in copulation with emarginata . 

 Heynemann (1869) records a cross between auricularia and peregra, 

 the former acting as female and the latter as male. Chaster (1909) 

 records a cross between L. stagnalis and L. auricularia, the former 

 taking the part of the male. The progeny were good examples of 

 peregra, and the query is raised by Chaster as to whether peregra 

 may not be the ancestral form of auricularia and stagnalis. Be that 

 as it may, it is possible that many of the so-called species and varieti' - 

 of Lymncea may be hybrids, and it will be necessary to experiment 

 in order to determine how true this is. In the ponds about Phila- 

 delphia, however, where Lymncea columella is found, the writer has 

 never found any other species present. The chance of hybridization 



is, therefore, rare. 



Conclusion. 



Johannsen (1911) clearly defined the "pure line." "A pure line.'' 

 he said, "may^be defined as the descendants from one single 

 homozygotic organism exclusively propagating by self-fertiliza- 

 tion. ... A line ceases to be 'pure' when hybridization (or 

 even intercrossing) disturbs the continuity of the self-fertilization." 

 With this definition in mind it is necessary, if we would have a pure 

 line in the Johannsenian sense, to deal with hermaphroditic organisms. 

 Not only must the organisms be hermaphroditic, but self-fertilization 

 must be possible. It must either be normal or can be induced and 

 controlled. These conditions can easily be fulfilled in many plants, 

 but, as far as I am aware, no animals with the proper requirements 

 have been experimented upon. 



To be sure, Jennings (1911) and others have traced "lines" of 

 Protozoa. These animals divide by fission so that their method of 

 reproduction is probably closely allied to asexual or to partheno- 

 genetic reproduction as found in multicellular forms. 



The Hydra with which Handel (1907) worked reproduced by 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



budding. On the other hand, Woltereck's (1909) Daphnia were 

 parthenogenetic. These "lines" of animals therefore cannot be 

 compared strictly with those "lines" in plants that reproduce 

 through self-fertilization. 



Adhering strictly to Johannsen's definition, as far as I know no 

 experiments with pure lines have ever been performed with animals. 



Lymncea, after this superficial study, would seem to furnish such 

 material : 



1. It apparently does self -fertilize its eggs when isolated. 



2. The time for generation is short — two to three months. 



3. There are a few well-defined characters that may be observed. 



4. Hybridization is possible, but as far as Lymncea columella from 

 this region is concerned, it is rarely that more than one species is 

 found in a single habitat. There is no evidence, as yet, that it is 

 not homozygous. 



On the whole, Lymncea columella seems to combine some of the 

 necessary requirements on which to base a pure-line investigation. 



Literature. 



Adams, C. C. 1900. Variation in Io. Proc. of the Am. Ass., IL, 208. 



VON Baer. 1835. Selbstbefruchtung an einer hermaphroditischen Schneeke 



beobachtet. Midler's Arch. f. Anat. u. Phys., Jahrg. 1835, 224. 

 Baker, F. C. 1911. The Lymnceidae of North and Middle America. Chicago 



Academy of Sciences, Publication No. 3. 

 Baker, H. B. 1910. Variation in Lymncea reflexa Say from Huron Count v. 



Twelfth Report of the Mich. Acad, of Sci. 

 Bratjn. 1888. Zur Frage der Selbstbefruchtung bei Zwitterschnecken. Nach. 



d. deutsch. malakozol. Ges., XX, 146. 

 Bronn. 1889 and 1900. Klassen und Ordnung des Tierreichs. 

 Chaster. 1899. A Cross between Lymncea stagnalis and L. auricularia. 



Jour, of Conch., IX, 282. 

 Colton. 1908. Some Effects of Environment on the Growth of Lymncea 



columella Say. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 

 Handel. 1907. Vererbung bei ungeschlechtlicher Fortpflanzung von Hydra 



grisea. Jenaischi Zeitschr., XLIII, 321. 

 Heynemann. 1869. Begattung zwischen Lymncea auricularia und peregra. 



Nach. d. deutsch. malakozol. Ges., I, 37. 

 von Ihring. 1876. ,An nnsere Mitglieder. Nach. d. deidsch. malakozol. Ges., 



VIII, 49. 

 Jennings and Hargitt. 1910. Characteristics of the Diverse Races of Para- 

 mecium. Jour, of Morph., XXI, 495. 

 Jennings. 1911. "Genotype" and "Pure Line." Science, December 15, 841. 

 Johannsen. 1911. The Genotype Conception of Heredity. American Natural- 

 ist, XLV, 129. 

 Mellor. 1905. Higher Mathematics for Students of Chemistry and Physics. 

 Morgan. 1904. Self-fertilization Induced by Artificial Means. Jour, of Exp. 



Zool., I, 135. 

 Pearl. 1911. Inheritance of Fecundity in the Domestic Fowl. American 



Naturalist, XLV, 321. 

 Pizon. 1893. Histoire de la Blastogenese chez les Botryllides. Ann. des Sci. 



Natur., XIV, 1-386. 

 Sekera. 1906. Ueber die Verbreitung der Selbstbefruchtung bei den Rhab- 



docoliden. Zool. Anz., XXX. 

 Woltereck. 1909. Verhandlungen deutsch. zoologischer Gesellschaft, 1909, 115. 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



A REVISION OF THE GENERA AND SPECIES OF THE GROUP MOGOPLISTII 



(ORTHOPTERA; GRYLLID.E) FOUND IN NORTH AMERICA 



NORTH OF THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



The group Mogoplistii forms a division of the subfamily Myr- 

 mecophilince and comprises eleven genera and over fifty species 

 described from localities well distributed over the warmer regions of 

 the earth. All of the species are of small size, very delicate and 

 covered with minute, easily abraded scales, for which reasons they 

 appear to have been but little collected, and in consequence most of 

 the species were described from but little and often badly damaged 

 material. 



In studying an extepsive series of North American specimens of 

 this group, we found it necessary to go so deeply .into the relationship 

 of the various genera and species that it became incumbent on us to 

 analyze all of the genera described to this date, to construct a new 

 key for all of the genera, and also erect four new genera. In addition 

 to this we were confronted with a great amount of confusion in regard 

 to the characters and extent of certain genera and also some com- 

 plicated specific synonymy. As these facts are best discussed in a 

 chronological sequence, we have summarized the history of the names 

 here treated. 



History. 



In 1839, Serville erected the genus Mogoplistes 1 on the species 

 M. brunneus from southern Europe [Sardinia]. Guerin, in 1844, 

 described the genus Ornebius, 2 basing it on two new species, 0. 

 xanthopterus, from Mauritius, and 0. nigripalpis, from Pondicherry, 

 the former of which has been selected as the genotype by Kirby. 

 The same author, in 1849, erected the genus Ectatoderus, 3 on a new 

 species E. nigriventris, from Abyssinia. In 1855, Costa based a new 

 genus Arachnocephalus* on a species from Naples, this author being 



1 Hist. Nat. Ins. Orth., p. 357. 



- Iconogr. Regne Anim., Ill, p. 331. 



3 In Lefebre, Voy. en Abyss., VI, p. 336, Ins. pi. VI, fig. 3. 



4 Fauna Nap., Grill., p. 41, pi. IX, fig. 5. We are unable to quote this reference 

 from the original work as, unfortunately, our copy is incomplete, lacking among 

 ethers the reauisite naee. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



fully acquainted with Mogoplistes, with which he compared his new 

 genus. Philippi, in 1863, described the genus Microgryllus as a 

 subgenus of Gryllus, placing in it the two new species Gryllus pallipes 

 and griseus from Chili, to the former of which the name has since 

 been limited. Scudder, in the year 1869, based a new genus Cyclop- 

 tilum, 6 on a single new species, C. squamosum, from Texas, while at 

 the same time he described another new species from Lower Cali- 

 fornia as Mogoplistes occidentalis. Brunner, in 1873, proposed the 

 name Physoblemma 7 for several unnamed species, which name is 

 clearly shown by the text to be an exact equivalent of the older 

 Arachnocephalus Costa, a genus apparently unknown to him at that 

 time. Saussure, in 1874, described a new species from Cuba 8 which 

 he referred to Scudder's genus Cycloptilum as C. americanum, later 

 emending the spelling to Cycloptilus. 9 The same author, in 1877, 

 erected the genus Liphoplus 10 for two new species, L. novarce from 

 Tahiti and L. guerinianus from an unknown locality,-the former of 

 which has been selected as type of the genus by Kirby. Bruner, in 

 1891, described a species as Cycloptilum (using Saussure's emended 

 spelling, Cycloptilus) borealis, from Nebraska, 11 while the next year 

 Redtenbacher described a species from St. Vincent, West Indies, 

 which he called Ectatoderus antillarum. 12 Saussure, in 1897, in the 

 Biologia ls described two new species from Mexico as Ectatoderus 

 aztecus and Liphoplus mexicanus, while in the same year Scudder 

 described a species from southern Florida, based on a single female, 

 as Mogosiplistus [emended Mogoplistes] slossoni. u In 1905, the 

 present authors described a new species from a single male from 

 southern Florida as Liphoplus zebra, 1 ' while Morse, in the same year, 

 based a new species, Mogisoplistus 1 * [emended Mogoplistes] barbovri 

 on a single female from the Bahamas. 



Classification. 

 The three facts which strike one most forcibly after a careful study 

 of all the generic descriptions and the type species of the same are 



5 Zeitschr.fur Geo. Natur., XXI, p. 231. 



6 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, p. 142. 



■ Seine. Entom. Gesell, IV, pp. 167, 169. 



■ Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool, VI, p. 426, pi. 8, figs. 41, 42. 

 9 Melang. Orth., II, p. 476, 1877. 



w Ibid., pp. 456, 483. 



11 Canad. Ent., XXIII, p. 37. 



12 Proc. Zobl. Soc. London, 1892. p. 218, pi. XVII, figs. 16a, 166. 

 ™Biol. Centr. Amer., Orth., I, pp. 230-231. 



14 Psyche, VIII, p. 55. 



15 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 49, pi. I, fig. 12. 

 * Psyche, XII, p. 21. 



13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



first, that Ectatoderus is quite distinct from any North American 

 form which has been referred to it. The greatly elongate pronotum 

 of the male, covering by far the greater portion of the abdomen, is a 

 character found in none of our species, while the form of the caudal 

 metatarsus is quite distinctive. The second fact is that Mogoplistes 

 is equally unrepresented in our fauna, the reference of forms from 

 North America to this genus being due to the fact that no males were 

 examined by the authors of those species. In all such cases we have 

 examined the types and unquestionably identical males, these 

 examinations proving that the species are not at all related to Mogo- 

 plistes brunneus, the type of that genus. The third fact is that 

 " Cycloptilus" as understood by Saussure is not Cycloptilum Scudder, 

 the characters of the pronotum, palpi and limbs being very different. 

 This misinterpretation was doubtless due to a certain amount of 

 vagueness in Scuclder's original description, but much uncertainty 

 as to what characters were really diagnostic of Cycloptilum resulted 

 from Saussure's error. The latter's key to the genera of the group 17 

 contained two groups of very misleading characters; first, the 

 division or non-division of the interantennal protuberance, and second, 

 the elongate caudal metatarsus with its non-sulcate and non-serrate 

 dorsum in "Cycloptilus.'' The former feature is of considerable 

 value as a major section in a generic key, but as that vertical division 

 is represented more or less clearly in a few genera by a sulcus, or in 

 several by a decided deep incision, it is necessary to qualify the word 

 "division." Saussure is completely in error in the characters which 

 he gives for Cycloptilum, the typical material of the type of the genus 

 being very different in these features. 18 The emphasis placed on 

 these two sets of characters was responsible for the present authors 

 describing Liphoplus zebra as a member of that genus, when it is 

 really a Cycloptilum. The presence of a weak but apparent sulcus 

 on the face, and the sulcate and serrate metatarsus easily ran the 

 species into the genus Liphoplus as placed in Saussure's key. 



Material Excmiined.—h\ the preparation of the present work the 

 types of the following species have been before us : 



• Cryptoptilum hesperum n. sp. 

 (Mogosiplistus slossoni Scudder, synonym of Cryptoptilum antil- 

 larwn Redtenbacher.) 



* 



17 Melang. Orth., II, p. 456. 



18 Davis (Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, XVII, p. 187, 1909) correctly analyzed the 

 mistakes of previous authors and properly presented the evidence of the type 

 of Cycloptilum squamosum. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



(Mogisoplistus barbouri Morse, synonym of Cryptoptilum antil- 

 larum Redtenbacher.) 



Cryptoptilum contectum n. sp. 

 Cryptoptilum tubulatum n. sp. 

 Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum n. sp. 

 Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder. 

 Cycloptilum, zebra (Rehn and Hebard). 

 Oligacanthopus prograptus n. sp. 

 Hoplosphyrum occidentale (Scudder). 

 Hoplosphyrum boreale (Scudder). 



The series examined numbers 763 specimens, generically distributed 

 as follows: Glaphyropus 2, Cryptoptilum 475, Cycloptilum 236, 

 Oligacanthopus 1, Hoplosphyrum 49. The great majority of these 

 specimens were taken by the authors on recent trips and are locat* < - 

 in the Hebard Collection and that of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, a considerable series, moreover, is in the Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner, while important specimens were kindly loaned 

 to us by Dr. Samuel Henshaw, of the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology at Cambridge, and through Mr. A. N. Caudell we have been 

 able to have before us the entire series of specimens belonging to the 

 United States National Museum. To these gentlemen, for their 

 many kindnesses, we wish to extend our hearty thanks. We would 

 also express our gratitude to Professor Albert P. Morse, Mr. William 

 T. Davis and Messrs. Sherman and Brimley for specimens of this 

 group which they have sent us for examination. 



Group MOGOPLISTII. 



Group Characters. — Size of all forms small; body covered with 

 translucent scales; apterous or having in the male sex abbreviate 

 membranous tegmina. Head discoidal, depressed, having an 

 interantennal protuberance which is separated from the vertex by a 

 transverse sulcus; ocelli very small or absent; palpi variable in 

 length. Pronotum in males often produced, vaulted or depressed; 

 lateral lobes of pronotum very narrow. Tegmina when present 

 containing all essential parts of tambourine. Caudal femora moder- 

 ately or considerably inflated; caudal tibiae serrulate on dorsa: 

 margins, without true spines, armed distad with six spurs; caudal 

 metatarsi armed distad with two arcuate spurs; all of the interna: 

 spurs being longer than their external equivalents. 



Key to the Genera of the Group. 



A. Dorsum of metatarsus almost unarmed, 19 Glaphyropus n. gen. 



(Genotype G. americajius.) 



19 In this division chaetiform spines are apparent on the margins of the meta- 

 tarsus when the latter is examined under a Zeiss binocular. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



AA. Dorsum of metatarsus serrate or serrulate on margins. 

 B. Facial protuberance not markedly divided. 



(Oligacanthopus 20 n. gen.) 

 (Genotype 0. prograptus.) 



C. Tegmina of male absent or only represented by rudiments. 

 D. Internal tibial spurs elongate, slenderer, 



Microgryllus Philippi. 

 (Genotype M. paUipes.) 



DD. Internal tibial spurs less elongate, more robust, 



Mogoplistes Serville. 

 (Genotype M. brunneus.) 



CC. Tegmina of male present, although frequently hidden 

 under pronotum. 



D. Pronotum of male very elongate, equal to two- 

 thirds of body length. (Tegmina present, but 

 completely covered by pronotum.) 



Ectatoderus Guerin. 

 (Genotype E. nigriventris.) 



DD. Pronotum of male less elongate. (Tegmina partly 

 visible or [Cryptoptilum] completely hidden under 



pronotum.) 

 E. Pronotum strongly narrowing cephalad in male, 

 in length equal to about one-half that of 

 body. 

 F. Tegmina of male not visible beyond pronotum. 



General size small, Cryptoptilum n. gen. 



(Genotype C. antillarum.) 



FF. Tegmina of male with periphery visible 

 beyond pronotum. General size very small, 



Cycloptilum Scudder. 



(Genotype C. squamosum.) 



(Oligacanthopus n. gen., vide supra.) 



EE. Pronotum not strongly narrowing cephalad in 



male, in general more or less subquadrate. 



F. Tibial spurs very long. Ovipositor not at all 



enlarged at apex, Hoplosphyrum n. gen. 



(Genotype H. occidentale.) 



FF. Tibial spurs very short. Ovipositor some- 

 what enlarged at apex, ..Ornebius Guerin. 

 (Genotype 0. xanthopterins.) 

 BB. Facial protuberance markedly divided. 



C. Tegmina absent in both sexes. (No perforation of 



cephalic tibiae.) Arachnocephalus Costa. 



(Genotype A. vestitus.) 



20 This new genus belongs in this division, nearest Cycloptilum, but as it is 

 known only from the female we are unable to place it more exactly in this key. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



CC. Tegmina present in male, partly projecting beyond 

 pronotum. (Cephalic face of cephalic tibiae perforate.) 



Liphoplus Saussure. 

 (Genotype L. novarce.) 



GLAPHYROPUS- 1 new genus. 



1S74. Cydoptilum Saussure (not of Scudder, 1868), Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. 



Zool., VI, p. 425. 

 1877. Cydoptilus Saussure (not Cydoptilum Scudder, 1868), Melang. 



Orth., II, p. 476. 

 1897. Cydoptylum Giglio-Tos (not Cydoptilum Scudder, 1868), Boll. Mus. 



Zool. Anat. Comp. Univ. Torino, XII, No. 301, p. 6. 



The very elongate caudal metatarsus which is very sparsely and 

 very delicately armed dorsad, will immediately separate this genus 

 from the other genera of the group. Under an ordinary hand lens 

 the metatarsus appears unarmed dorsad, and this is doubtless the 

 reason Saussure accentuated this character, thus differentiating it 

 from the allied genera, but under a moderate-power microscope the 

 margins are seen to be supplied with delicate cheetiform spines. 

 However, this spination is most subtle and is entirely different in 

 character from that found in any of the allied genera, which all have 

 these spines more decidedly dentiform, often contrastingly colored 

 and always truly serrate in their arrangement. The extremely 

 slender metatarsus is so striking a character that it will at once serve 

 to distinguish members of this genus. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype — Glaphyropus americanus [Cydop- 

 tilum americanum] (Saussure). 



Generic Description. — Head small, subelongate, smooth; inter- 

 antennal protuberance weak, broadly rounded, no vertical dividing 

 sulcus present; eyes pyriform, not inflated; maxillary palpi very 

 long and slender, the distal joint very obliquely truncate, labial palpi 

 short. Pronotum of male strongly produced cauclad covering the 

 base of the abdomen, caudal margin strongly arcuate; of female 

 subquadrate in form, cephalic margin truncate, caudal margin 

 weakly arcuate and covering mesonotum and base of metanotum. 

 Tegmina in male concealed by the pronotum, absent in female. 

 Ovipositor straight, slender, moderately long; distal valves lanceolate, 

 but not differentiated from the shaft. Supra-anal plate of male 

 strongly plicate, bicarinate, bimammilate at the base; of female 

 rotundato-trigonal, sulcate cephalo-caudad and folded between the 

 cerci. Subgenital plate trapeziform in male; rotundato-trigonal 



21 From ; 'Mujwpdc, smooth, and ~'» <;, foot; in allusion to the practically unarmed 

 dorsal margins of the caudal metatarsus. 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



in female. Cerci very long and slender, very smooth, 

 tapering. Caudal femora dilated; caudal tibiae slender, sub- 

 compressed, very finely serrulate on dorsal margins, with three pair 

 of distal spurs, the dorso- and ventro-internal subequal, the medio- 

 internal nearly twice their length and equal to about two-fifths the 

 length of the metatarsus; caudal metatarsus very elongate, slender, 

 equal to over half the length of the caudal tibia, dorsal margins 

 supplied with very delicate chaetiform spines, second joint minute, 

 "bird joint very small. 



Distribution in North America. — Cuba, Vera Cruz, Lower Cali- 

 fornia and Mexico. 



Glaphyropus americanus (Saussure). 



1874. Cycloptilum americanum Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., 



VI, p. 426, pi. 8, figs. 41, 42. [Cuba.] 

 1874. Cycloptilum poeyi Saussure, ibid., explanat. pi. 8, figs. 41, 42. (Plate 



name only.) 

 1888. C[ycloptilum] americanum Bolivar, Mem. Soc. Zool. France, I, p. 157. 



[Cuba.] 

 1891. Cycloplilus americanus Gundlach, Entom. Cuban. II, p. 370. [Cuba.] 

 1909. Cycloptilum americanum Rehn, Second Rept. Cent. Exp. Sta., Cuba, 



p. 221. [Cuba.] 



Types: cf and 9 ; Cuba. (Poey and Gundlach.) [Saussure 

 Collection.] 



The following description is based upon a female from San Rafael, 

 Vera Cruz, Mexico. (Townsend.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size small; form subdepressed; surface very smooth. 22 Head 

 f>void, subdepressed, but convex dorsad; interantennal protuberance 

 separated from the vertex by a well-marked transverse interantennal 





ill l 



; 



K«ri-'ntlKa»«>^<^^ ri|1 y | . | 



*- -^ijj i V" ...O w O.'-j i 



Fig. 1. — Glaphyropus americanus. Internal face of caudal metatarsus and in- 

 ternal tibial spurs. (Greatly magnified.) 



sulcus. Maxillary palpi greatly elongate, distal joint elongate 

 tubiform, distal margin very obliquely truncate. Pronotum trans- 

 versely strongly arcuate, caudal width subequal to the length, 

 lateral outlines of disk gently arcuate, expanding little caudad; 



22 Scales completely abraded from the only specimen seen by us. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



lateral lobes broadly passing into disk except caudad where there is a 



slight angle, depth of lobes about one-third the greatest length, 



ventral margin truncate, obliquely truncate caudad. Subgenital 



plate arcuato-trigonal, subcompressed ; ovipositor shorter than the 



caudal femora, slightly thickened proximad, subequal and quite 



slender for the greater portion of its length,' apex not broadened, 



lanceolate, dorsal valves at apex with four rows of punctse which are 



evenly spaced so that these valves when seen from 



certain angles appear to have their margins sub- 



crenulate, ventral valves smooth. Cephalic and 



median limbs slender, femora subcompressed; 



cephalic tibise with a very minute tympanum 



placed more toward the dorsal face of the tibise than 



is usually the case. Caudal tibiae slightly arcuate 



ventrad, the medio-external spur nearly twice the 



length of the dorso-external spur and considerably Fig. 2. — Glaphy- 



longer than the ventro-external one, all of the external ropus amen- 



CQ> ?l US. J\x &X- 



spurs shorter than the internal. Caudal metatarsus illary palpus, 

 slightly arcuate dorsad, subcompressed, with distal (Greatlymag- 

 spurs small, slender, subequal, reaching to the base 

 of the distal tarsal joint. 



Description of Male. 23 — This sex differs from the female in the 

 following characters. Pronotum much larger, strongly produced 

 caudad as far as the second or third abdominal segment, expanding 

 gradually caudad, caudal margin broadly semicircular. Tegmina 

 large, rounded, not reaching quite as far as the caudal margin of the 

 pronotum, entirely covered by the same. Subgenital plate trapezi- 

 form, convex, punctate, margin sub-bilobate. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



San Jose 

 Cuba San Rafael, del Cabo, 



(ex Saussure). Vera Cruz, Lower 



, ' < Mexico. California. 



cT 9 9 9 



Length of body 5.5 5.6 5.7 6.7 



Length of pronotum 3 1.8 1.7 2 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.4 2 1.7 2 



Length of caudal femur 3.8 4 4 4 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.5 1.5 



Length of ovipositor 2.8 2.8 2.8 



Color Notes. — Saussure says of the species "pallid fulvo-testaceus, 



23 Amplified from Saussure, his figure showing several characters not men- 

 tioned in his description. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julie. 



hoiosericeo-tomentose, head and thorax fulvous, abdomen more 



grayish." The specimen before us from 



~^*^y: Lower California has been dried from 



/ Z.ZZ^^:iC\ alcohol, and in consequence its coloration 



i ^i-vV^ is greatly altered from that of nature. 



Fig, 3.— G lap hyr opus In general it is cream-buff, darkening to 



americanus. Apex of ochraceous on the head, antennae, thorax 

 ovipositor. (Greatly , , ,. . , , , , , 



magnified.) an d base ol the abdomen, eyes dark 



slate-gray, ovipositor pale ochraceous with 



the apex tawny. The specimen in our possession from the state of 



Vera Cruz is cinnamon, darkening to vandyke-brown on the sides 



of the head, pronotum and dorsal surface of the abdomen, eyes 



vandyke-brown, underparts of body, palpi, cephalic and median 



limbs and caudal tarsi clay color, ovipositor russet. 



Distribution. — Only known from Cuba, the state of Vera Cruz, 

 Mexico, the extremity of Lower California (San Jose del Cabo) and 

 northern Venezuela. 24 It is possible that the Venezuelan material 

 may not be identical. 



Synonymy. — Saussure's erroneous association of this very distinct 

 generic group with Cycloptilum Scudder beclouded the characters 

 of true Cycloptilum, preventing some authors from recognizing the 

 latter, as Scudder failed to mention the character of the dorsal 

 margins of the caudal metatarsus. 



Remarks. — We have before us two females of this species from 

 Mexican territory, which show no character of difference from the 

 original description — in fact, agreeing in every particular. It is 

 interesting to find material from such widely separated and different 

 localities agreeing so thoroughly. 



Specimens Examined. — 2 females. 



San Rafael, Vera Cruz, Mexico; 1 9 . [Hebard Collection.] 

 San Jose del Cabo, Lower California; 1 9 . [Hebard Collection.] 



CKYPTOPTILUM-' new genus. 



1892. Ectatoderus Redtenbacher (not of Guerin, 1849), Proc. Zool. Soc. 



London, 1892, p. 218. 

 1897. Liphoplus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 232 (in part). 

 1897. Mogosiplistus Scudder (not Mogoplistes Serville, 1839), Psyche, 



VIII, p. 55. 

 1897. Mogosiplistus Scudder (not Mogoplistes Serville, 1839), Guide to Gen. 



Class. N. Amer. Orth., p. 63. 

 1905. Mogisoplistus Morse (not Mogoplistes Serville, 1839), Psyche, XII, 



P-21. * 



24 Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. Anal. Camp. Univ. Torino, XII, Xo. 301, p. 6. 

 1897. 



5 From hpr-ror, hidden, and -ruov l wing; in allusion to the hidden tegmina. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H»: 



1905. Cycloptilus Mor.se (not Cycloptilum judder, 1868), Psyche, XII, p. 21. 



1905. Liphoplus Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1877), Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 49. 



1906. Liphoplux Rehn (not of Saussure, 1877), Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., 

 XXII, p. 117. 



1907. Liphoplus Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1877), Proe. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 316. 



1909. Liphoplus Rehn (not of Saussure, 1877), Second Rept., Cent, Exp. 

 Sta. Cuba, p. 220. 



1910. Liphoplus Rehn (not of Saussure, 1877), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1910, p. 10. 



1911. Cycloptilus Sherman and Brimley, Ent. News, XXII, p. 391 (in part). 



Genus includes five species. Genotype. — Cryptoptilum antillarum 

 [Eetatoderus antillarum] (Redtenbacher). 



Generic Description. — Form depressed, compact, surface clothed 

 with scales; pronotum produced caudad in male; tegmina absent 

 in female, concealed by pronotum in male. 



Head small, rounded, produced cephalad; interantennal pro- 

 tuberance with trace of vertical division. Pronotum of male 

 narrow cephalad, produced caudad, in length equal to about 

 half of the entire length of the body; of female sub-quadrate. 

 Tegmina of male concealed by disk of pronotum, tympanum 

 perfectly developed, caudal margin of dorsal field of tegmina 

 strongly arcuate; lateral field of tegmina well developed. Ovi- 

 positor nearly straight, narrowly sub-lanceolate at apex, the latter 

 with margins unarmed. Subgenital plate of female with distal 

 margin complete or angulate-emarginate mesad. Cerci of both 

 sexes elongate, tapering. Cephalic tibiae with the cephalic face 

 bearing a distinct tympanum. Caudal femora much dilated; 

 armament of limbs as in Cycloptilum. 



Distribution in North America. — Extending from central North 

 Carolina southward to extreme southern Florida and westward to 

 Brazos County, Texas. The genus is also found in Lower California 

 and has a wide insular distribution, having been recorded from 

 Bermuda. the Bahamas, Cuba and St. Vincent. 



Key to Cryptoptilum. New Genus. 



A. Terminal joint of maxillary palpi moderately elongate, expanding 



gently distad, gently obliquely truncate. 



B. Pronotum of male widening gradually but distinctly caudad. 



C. Pronotum of male with cephalic width contained about 



two and three-quarters times in the greatest length 



of the same, much produced caudad; subgenital plate 



of female broadly truncate distad with no emargina- 



tion hesperum n. sp. 




194 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



CC. Pronotum of male with cephalic width contained hardly 

 twice in the greatest length of the same, not as much 

 produced caudad; sub-genital plate of female arcuato- 

 convergent, narrowly acute-angulate emarginate 



distad antillarum (Redtenbacher) . 



BB. Pronotum of male subequal in width tubulatum n. sp. 



AA. Terminal joint of maxillary palpi not so elongate, expanding 



widely distad, very obliquely truncate. 



B. Form compact, pronotum of male widening gradually, but 



broadly caudad, not constricted in either sex; subgenital 



plate of female arcuato-convergent, carinate meso-caudad, 



very narrowly acute-angulate emarginate distad, 



contectum n. sp. 

 BB. Form rather slender, pronotum of male narrow, expanding 

 gently caudad, noticeably constricted in both sexes; sub- 

 genital plate of female arcuato-convergent, broadly 

 obtuse-angulate emarginate distad trigonipalpum n. sp. 



Cryptoptilum hesperum n. sp. 



This species is closely related to C. antillarum, but differs from it 

 in having the interantennal protuberance more produced and bulb- 

 ous, the joints of the maxillary palpi more elongate with the 

 terminal joint more roundly and less obliquely truncate. The 

 pronotum is heavier in both sexes, and considerably longer pro- 

 portionately in the male. The caudal tibiae and metatarsi are very 

 slightly longer in proportion to the length of the caudal femora, the 



caudal metatarsi having normally on each 

 dorsal margin ten or more serrations. In 

 the male the subgenital plate is much as 

 in antillarum, but in the female it is gently 

 arcuato-convergent laterad, broadly ar- 

 cuato-truncate distad with no trace of 

 emargination. 



Type: 9 ; San Lazaro, Lower Cali- 

 fornia, September, 1894. [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium for 

 group. Head small, interantennal protu- 

 berance much produced and bulbous,much 

 longer in proportion to the general size of 

 the head than in antillarum, divided verti- 

 cally by a very minute sulcus. Maxillary 

 palpi with penultimate joint about two- 

 thirds as long as terminal joint, the latter expanding very gently 



Fig. 4. — Cryptoptiluni hes- 

 perum. Dorsal view of 

 allotype. (X 4.) 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



distad, very mildly obliquely truncate. All of the joints of the 

 maxillary palpi are considerably longer and more attenuate than in 

 antillarum. Eyes much as in antillarum, pronotum likewise, but 

 heavier. Tegmina absent. Subgenital plate somewhat arcuato- 

 convergent laterad, broadly truncate distad with no emargination 

 whatever. Ovipositor as in antillarum. Cerci missing. Cephalic 

 tibise with cephalic face bearing a distinct tympanum. Arma- 

 ment of limbs much as in antillarum except that the serrations 

 on the dorsal margins of the caudal metatarsi are heavier and 

 less widely spaced, and number seven on inner, ten on outer margin. 

 Caudal tibiae and metatarsi very slightly longer proportionally than 

 in antillarum. 



Allotypic c? : Lower California. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype. — Slightly smaller than female. Pronotum 

 larger and proportions considerably longer than in antillarum, the 

 caudal margin transverse, broadly arcuate. Tegmina much as in 

 antillarum. 



In addition to the type and allotype, the entire series of specimens 

 here examined and listed below may be considered paratypic. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Allotype. Type. San Jose 



Lower California. San Lazaro, del Cabo, 



L. Cal. L. Cal. 



c? 9 9 



Length of body 8 8.9 10 



Length of pronotum 5.1 2.7 2.9 



Caudal width of pronotum 3.1 2.7 3 



Length of caudal femur 5.4 5.4 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2 2 



Length of caudal tibia 3.9 4 



Length of caudal metatarsus 1.6 1.7 



Length of ovipositor 5 6.6 



Color Notes. — As all but the two adult females are dried alcoholic 

 specimens, our color notes refer to these two specimens only. In 

 ground coloration they are much like antillarum, but the dorsum of 

 the abdomen is wholly black. The scaly covering of the type is in 

 perfect condition, and shows the insect to be thickly covered with 

 scales as in antillarum, but in this case the scales are metallic-bronze 

 in color. In this specimen there is a cephalic bar of dark brown 

 which crosses the eye, but is not continued on the pronotum; in the 

 two other adult specimens, both of which have almost entirely lost 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



their scaly covering, no trace of such a bar exists. The maxillary 

 palpi are dark brown and are covered with light hairs. 



Distribution. — The known range of this species is confined to 

 Lower California. 



Remarks. — As noted under antillarum, the female, in the 

 later stages of the nymphal condition, has dentiform spines on each 

 side of the ovipositor sheath; these are situated distad along the 

 ventral margin of the upper section of the valves, and in the specimen 

 before us are five in number on each side. The adults all have a 

 distinct tympanum on the cephalic face of the cephalic tibiae, but 

 this tympanum is not present in any of the nymphs. 



Specimens Examined. 2 " — 10; 1 male, 2 females and 7 nymphs. 



Lower California; lcf,19 n. 



Sierra el Toste, L. Cal.; September 23, 1894; (Eisen) ; ld'n, 1 9 n. 

 San Lazaro, L. Cal.; September, 1894; 1 9 , 2c?n, 2 9 n. (9 Type.) 

 San Jose del Cabo, L. Cal. ; 1 9 . 



Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redtenbacher). 



1892. E[ctatoderus] antillarum Redtenbacher, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1892. 



p. 218, pi. XVII, figs., 16a, 166. [St. Vincent, West Indies.] 

 1897. Liphoplus krugii Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 232. [Cuba.] 



(March, 1897.) 

 1897. M[ogosiplistus] slossoni Scudder, Psyche, VIII, p. 55. [Biscayne Bay, 



Florida.] (April, 1897.) 

 1905. Liphoplus krugii Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 



p. 49. [Key West, Florida.] 



1905. Mogisoplistus barbouri Morse, Psyche, XII, p. 21. [Nassau, New 

 Providence Island, Bahamas.] 



1906. Liphoplus krugii Rehn, Bull. Amer. Mus. Nat, Hist., XXII, p. 117. 

 [Mangrove Key, Andros, and Pot Key, Andros, Bahamas.] 



1907. Liphoplus krugii Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila.. 

 1907, p. 316 (in part). [Pablo Beach and Gainesville, Florida.] 



1909. Liphoplus krugii Rehn, Second Rept., Cent. Exp. Sta. Cuba, p. 220. 

 [Cabanas P\>rtress, Cuba.] 



1910. Liphoplus krugii Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila,, 1910, p. 10. 

 [Paget West, Bermuda.] 



1911. Cycloptilus squamosus Sherman and Brimley (not of Scudder, 1868), 

 Ent. News, XXII, p. 391 (in part). [Beaufort, North Carolina.] 



Type: d 71 , and allotype, 9 ; St. Vincent, West Indies, windward 

 side. (H. H. Smith.) [British Museum.] 



The following description is based upon a male from Wrightsville, 

 North Carolina, September 7, 1911. (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Size medium for the group, head small, interantennal space roundly 



:e The entire series is in the Hebard Collection. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



197 



produced and divided by a very minute subobsolete longitudinal 

 sulcus. Maxillary palpi with penulti- 

 mate joint about two-thirds as long as 

 terminal joint, the latter expanding 

 gently distad, gently obliquely truncate. 

 All of the palpal joints proportionately 

 more attenuate than in the two known 

 species of the genus Cycloptilum. Eyes 

 pyriform, subvertical. Pronotum 

 narrowing regularly cephalad, consider- 

 ably produced caudad, the entire dorsal 

 surface transversely gently arcuate; the 

 caudal margin transverse, broadly arcu- 

 ate. Tegmina wholly concealed from 

 above by the pronotum, from the side 

 the lateral field may be seen to embrace 

 the abdomen. Cerci as long as the 

 abdomen. Cephalic tibiae with cephalic 

 face bearing a large, oval and distinct 

 tympanum. Caudal femora dilated. 

 Caudal tibia? with three pair of well-devel- 

 oped distal spurs, the dorso-internal no- 

 ticeably shorter than the ventro-internal 

 spur, the medio-internal spur considerably 

 longer than the others with its length contained about twice in the 

 metatarsus. Caudal metatarsus rather long, straight, rather broad, 

 sulcate dorsad, both dorsal margins armed with four and five on 



inner and six and seven well-developed 

 serrations 27 on outer margins, the distal 

 extremity armed on both sides with 

 a long spur, the longer inner spur 

 reaching to the end of the first third 

 of the terminal tarsal joint. 



A female, taken with the male here 

 described, differs from it in the 

 following respects : 



Larger; the pronotum subquadrate, 

 narrowing very little cephalad; tegmina absent. The subgenital 



Fig. 5. — Cryploptilum antil- 

 larum. Dorsal view of 

 male specimen here de- 

 scribed. (X 4.) 



Fig. 6. — Cryploptilum antilla- 

 rum. Internal face of caudal 

 metatarsus and tibial spurs. 

 (Greatly magnified.) 



27 The number of these serrations is found to vary considerably in the species 

 of this group, but the inner margins always bear fewer serrations than the outer 

 margins in the same individual. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julie. 



plate is arcuto-convergent laterad, semi-ovate, narrowly acute- 

 angulate emarginate at the apex. The ovipositor is long, 

 straight, lateral division of valves exactly at middle of the sides, 

 sub-lanceolate at apex, the latter with margins unarmed. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 

 Wrightsville, N. C. 

 Described. 28 Average of series. 



& 9 &<? 9 9 



Length of body 9. 9.3 8.2(7.2-9. ) 8.8(8. -9.8) 



Length of pronotum 4. 2.5 4. (3.8-4.2) 2.3(2.2-2.5) 



Caudal width of pro- 

 notum 3. 2.8 3. (2.8-3.1) 2.5(2.3-2.9) 



Length of caudal femur 5.5 6. 5.1(4.5-5.5) 5.7(5.1-6. ) 



Width of caudal femur 2. 1.9 1.9(1.5-2.1) 1.9(1.8-2. ) 



Length of ovipositor 5.5 5.2(4.9-5.5) 



Isle of Hope, Ga. 

 Average of series. 



cTcf 9 9 



Length of body 7.8(7.6-8.1) 8.4(7. -9. ) 



Length of pronotum 4. (3.9-4.2) 2.2(2. -2.4) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.7(2.5-2.9) 2.4(2.1-2.7) 



Length of caudal femur 4.9(4.5-5. ) 5.6(5. -6. ) 



Width of caudal femur 1.7(1.6-1.9) 1.9(1.7-2. ) 



Length of ovipositor 5.1(4.8-5.6) 



Atlantic Beach, Fla. 

 Average of series. 



<?<? 9 9 



Length of body 7.6(7.4-8. ) 8. (7.5-8.5) 



Length of pronotum 4. (3.8-4.1) 2.2(2. -2.7) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.8(2.7-3. ) 2.5(2.3-2.8) 



Length of caudal femur 4.9(4.3-5.2) 5.5(5. -6.2) 



Width of caudal femur 1.8(1.7-2. ) 1.9(1.8-2.2) 



Length of ovipositor 5.1(4.6-5.4) 



Key West, Fla. 

 Average of series. 



cTcf 9 9 



Length of body 6.9 (6.7-7.3) 7.1(6.5-8. ) 



Length of pronotum 4. (3.8-4.2) 2.1(2.-2.2) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.85(2.8-3. ) 2.2(2.1-2.4) 



Length of caudal femur 4.3 (4.1-4.5) 5. (4.9-5.2) 



Width of caudal femur 1.6 (1.5-1.7) 1.9(1.8-2.) 



Length of ovipositor 4.2(4. -4.3) 



<» 

 28 These measurements are almost exactly the same as those given by Redten- 

 bacher in his original description. The large size of St. Vincent specimens may 

 prove to be the result of tropical influence. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



These measurements plainly show that, in the United States, the 

 species reaches its greatest size at the northern limit of its range, and 

 that it gradually and constantly decreases in size southward, although 

 in all of the large series from a single locality there exists a great 

 amount of size variation. Specimens from Cabanas, Cuba, are very 

 much like those from Key "West. 



Color Notes. — Ground color of dorsal surface of pronotum, head, 

 mesonotum, metanotum, and sometimes first abdominal segments, 

 russet, in some individuals varying to mars-brown. In the majority 

 of specimens, sides and under portions of head, lateral lobes of 

 pronotum, all of the limbs and under portions of body excepting 

 abdomen are of a much lighter shade, the outer and dorsal faces of 



Fig. 7. — Cryptoptilum anlilla- 



rum. Apex of ovipositor. Fig. 8. — Cryptoptilum antillarum. Maxillary 

 (Greatly magnified.) palpus. (Greatly magnified.) 



caudal femora often dark. Abdomen black, frequently marked 

 above on edges of segments with brown, this usually more pronounced 

 in female sex, and females are occasionally found with whole dorsum 

 of abdomen suffused with that color. Maxillary palpi usually color 

 of under portions of body, sometimes darkly suffused toward distal 

 extremity of last segment. 



Specimens covered with scales usually appear wholly silvery-drab 

 or silvery-white, as all portions of the insect excepting the eyes, face 

 and feet are heavily scaled. Specimens frequently have these scales 

 rubbed off in such a way that the insect would at first glance appear 

 to belong to a distinct species. An inconspicuous dark post-ocular 

 bar is often to be found on the head in the present species ; but is 

 never continued on the pronotum. 



Distribution- — In the United States this species is found within 

 the boundaries of the Lower Austral Zone; the most northern 

 locality at which it has been taken is Beaufort, on the central portion 

 of the coast of North Carolina, and the vicinity of Wilmington on 

 the southern coast of that State. A specimen before us from Brazos 

 County, Texas, constitutes the most western record at the present 

 date. The species is found on the Bermudas, and is probably widely 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



iistributed through the greater and lesser Antilles, having been taken 

 in the Bahamas, Cuba, and St. Vincent. 



Biological Notes. — The present species is bush-loving, and over 

 the greater portion of its range is rather plentiful in bayberry 

 and other heavy bushes. On the Florida Keys, specimens 

 could almost invariably be found in Ilex cassine during the 

 proper season. At Wrightsville, North Carolina, not only was 

 it found in great numbers in the bayberry bushes, but also on the 

 ground among leaves and low plants under live oaks in countless 

 numbers. Hardly ever before had the species been found on the 

 ground. In this respect the present species differs from both known 

 species of Cycloptilum which are almost Wholly terrestrial, and it 

 may be said to be truly thamnophilous. 



Synomjmy. — The description and figures of ant Mar um perfectly 

 match the series of specimens before us, and we unhesitatingly refer 

 our specimens to Redtenbacher's species. 



Saussure's Liphoplus krugii from Cuba also agrees perfectly, and 

 specimens before us from Cuba which we have previously determined 

 as krugii are inseparable from others in the present series. The 

 name consequently falls into the synonymy under antillarum. 



Scudder has described Mogosiplistus slossoni from Biscayne Bay, 

 Florida, apparently without reference to the literature bearing on 

 the Mogoplistii of the Antilles, and after examination of his type we 

 unhesitatingly place it also in the synonymy under antillarum. 



We have examined the unique female type of Mogisoplistus 

 harbouri Morse, in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cam- 

 bridge, and find it to be a very large specimen of the present species, 

 ten millimeters in length. The tympanum on the cephalic face of 

 the cephalic femora in antillarum is found to vary in a large series 

 from elliptical to nearly circular, and the fact that the species in 

 southern Florida is particularly small, doubtless caused the large 

 Bahaman specimen to appear different from the small individuals 

 of the type series of Scudder's synonymic Mogosiplistus slossoni when 

 it was compared with those specimens and described as new. 



Remarks. — The female of this species in the later stages of the 

 nymphal condition has six heavy dentiform spines on each side of the 

 heavy ovipositor sheath, these are situated distad along the ventral 

 margin of the upper sections of the valves. 



Specimens Examined. — 438; 175 males, 216 females and 47 nymphs. 



Beaufort, N. C; early July, 1909; (Sherman); 2n.: middle Sept., 

 1911; lcT, 1 9 . [Coll. N. C. Dept, Agr.] 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Wrightsville, N. C; Sept. 7, 1911; (R. and H.) 29 ; 91 d\ 125 9, 

 6 9 n. 



Winter Park, N. C; Sept. 7, 1911; (R. andH.); 3 d\ 9 9,1 9 n. 



Lake Waccamaw, N. C; Sept. 8, 1911; (R. andH.); 2d". 



Florence, S. C; Sept. 6, 1911; (R. andH.); Id",! 9 n. 



Sullivan Id., Charleston Co., N. C; Sept. 5, 1911; (R. and H.); 

 1 d\ 



Tybeeld., Ga.; Sept, 2, 1911; (H.); 19. 



Isle of Hope, Ga.; Sept, 3, 1911; (R. and H.); 27 cf , 36 9,5 9 n. 



St. Simon's Id., Ga.; Aug. 30, 1911; (R.); 2 d\ 2 9 . 



Cumberland Id., Ga.; Aug. 31, 1911; (R. and H.) ; 1 cf, 2 9, 

 4 9 n. 



Jacksonville. Fla. ; (Priddav) ; 1 9 , 1 9 n. [Hebard Collection.] 



St. George, Fla.; Aug. 27, 1882; 1 cf . [Hebard Collection.] 



Atlantic Beach, Fla.; Aug. 24, 25, 1911; (R.andH.); 13 cf, 11 9, 

 3 9 n. 



Pablo Beach, Fla.; Aug. 12, 13, 1905; (R. and H.); 2 cf , 1 9 n. 



Gainesville, Fla.; Aug. 16, 1905; (R. and H.) ; 1 9. 



Lake Worth, Fla. ; (Slosson) ; 1 n. [Scudder Collection.] 



Biscayne Bay (Miami), Fla.; Feb. 9, 1904; (H.); 1 cf : (Slosson); 

 1 cf, 1 9, 30 1 n. [Scudder Collection.]; Nov. 18, 1911; (Engle- 

 hardt), 1 cf. [W. T. Davis Collection.] 



Key Largo, Fla. ; March 18, 1910; (H.) ; 1 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla.; March 13, 1910; (H.); 7 cf, 5 9 , 2 cf n, 2 9 n. 



Key Vaca, Fla.; March 14, 1910; (H.) ; 3 cf, 3 cf n, 1 9 n. 



Boot Key, Fla.; March 14, 1910; (H.) ; 1 cf . 



Key West, Fla.; Jan. 19, 1904; (H.); 1 cf, 2 9, 4 9 n: March 

 15, 16, 1910; (H.); 9 cf , 13 9 , 3 cf n, 4 9 n. 



Wellborn, Brazos Co., Tex.; Aug. 27, 1904; 19. [U. S. N. M.] 



Paget West, Bermuda; Jan. 6, 18, 1909; (F. M. Jones); 4 9. 

 [A. N. S. P.] 



Nassau, New Providence Island, Bahamas; July, 1904; (T. Bar- 

 bour) ; 1 9 . (Type of Mogisoplistus barbouri Morse) [Mus. Comp. 

 Zool] 



Cabanas (Fortress), Cuba; Jan. 29, 1904; (H.); 5 cf , 1 9 , 1 9 n. 



Cryptoptilum tubulatum 31 a. sp. 



.This species is quite different from C. antillarum, to which of the 

 known species of this genus it is most nearly related. Its form is 

 quite distinctive owing to its somewhat tubular appearance, caused 

 by the fact that in this species alone, of the six known to belong to 

 the genus Cryptoptilum, the head, pronotum and abdomen are of very 



29 Throughout the present paper it is understood that specimens taken by 

 the authors are in the Hebard Collection and The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



30 This female is the type, here selected, of Mogosiplistus slossoni Scudder; 

 the other specimens, male and nymph, are paratypes. 



S1 In allusion to the tubular appearance of the insect. 



14 




202 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June,. 



nearly the same width throughout. The insect is very much the 

 same size as antillarum, but the dorsal surface of the head is more 

 flattened, while the interantennal protuberance is more sharply 

 rectangulate. As in C. trigonipalpum, the tympanum on the cephalic 

 face of the cephalic tibia is circular, not oval as is usual in C. antillarum. 

 The last three segments of the maxillary palpi are much as in antil- 

 larum, but are more robust in proportion to their length. The 

 pronotum is proportionally longer and its sides are subparallel. The 

 caudal femora are much the same as in antillarum, and the armament 

 of the limbs is similar. 



Type: d" ; Salina Cruz, Oaxaca, Mexico; December 22, 1898. 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Type.— -Size medium for the group. Head small, 

 interantennal space produced and sharply rounded, divided by a very 



minute subobsolete longitudinal sulcus. 

 Maxillary palpi with fourth joint from 

 distal extremity nearly twice as long as 

 broad, considerably longer than in C. 

 antillarum. Eyes pyriform, subvertical, 

 somewhat larger and slightly more promi- 

 nent than in antillarum. Pronotum when 

 seen from above subequal in width, 

 considerably produced caudad, the entire 

 dorsal surface transversely gently arcuate, 

 more decidedly so than in antillarum, the 

 caudal margin subtruncate. Tegmina 

 wholly concealed dorsad by the pronotum, 

 a portion of the lateral field may be seen 

 to embrace the abdomen, though in this 

 species the peculiar shape of the pronotum 

 causes the lateral lobes to embrace the 

 sides of the body to nearly the caudal margin of the pronotum. 

 Cephalic tibiae with cephalic face bearing a large, circular and distinct 

 tympanum. Limbs, and armament of the same, much as in antil- 

 larum. 



Measurements (in millimeters). — cf : Length of body, 8.2; length 

 of pronotum, 5.2; cephalic width of pronotum, 2; caudal width of 

 pronotum, 2.1; length of caudal femur, 5.3; width of caudal femur, 

 1.8. 



Color Notes. — Ground color of dorsal surface of pronotum russet. 

 Dorsal surface of head and all of abdomen blackish-brown. Other 



Fig. 9. — Cryptoptilum tubula- 

 ium. Dorsal view of type. 

 (X 4.) 




15)12.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



203 



portions of head including palpi and also limbs very dark bistre. 

 Antenna? tawny-olive. The body is heavily scaled, above the great 

 majority of these scales are translucent wood-brown, the remainder 

 are translucent. Beneath the heavy scale covering is hoary-white. 



Distribution. — As the species is known from but one specimen, we 

 are only able to give one locality in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, at 

 which it is found, and nothing is known of the habits of the insect. 



Specimens Examined. — 1 d". - 



Salina Cruz, Oaxaca, Mexico; December 22, 1898; 1 d\ (Type.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Cryptoptilum oontectum 1 - n. sp. 



This insect shows the closest relationship to C. trigonipalpum 

 (vide infra), from which species it differs in the somewhat heavier 

 build, which, however, is not as heavy as in C. antiUarum. The 

 pronotum is proportionately more expansive both in length and width 

 in the male, and in fact considerably exceeds the broader species 

 antiUarum. The caudal femora are more strongly inflated, and in 

 this respect closely resemble antiUarum. In the female the pronotum 

 is wider, being in proportionate width 

 intermediate between trigonipalpum and 

 antiUarum, the subgenital plate differs 

 from all other species of the genus in 

 being apically keeled, and the ovipositor 

 is also very much shorter than in any of 

 the other forms. 



Type: c? ; Hayti. (P. R. Uhler.) 

 [Scudder Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size small ; form 

 not as slender as C. trigonipalpum. 

 Head small, the interantennal space 

 roundly produced, divided vertically by 

 a distinct though minute sulcus. Max- 

 illary palpi as in trigonipalpum. Pro- 

 notum narrowing regularly cephalad, 

 very wide and considerably produced 

 caudad. Cerci of type missing. Cephalic face of cephalic tibiae 

 bearing a large, distinct, broadly ovoid tympanum. Hind femora 

 and armament of limbs as in C. antiUarum. 



Allotypic 9 . Data the same as the type. 



Fig. 10. — Cryptoptilum con- 

 ted um. Dorsal view of 

 type. (X 4.) 



32 In allusion to the expansive pronotum of the male of this species. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Description of Allotype. — Much the same size as the male. Prono- 

 tum proportionately wider than in C. trigonipalpum, narrower than 

 in C. antillarum. Tegmina absent. Subgenital plate arcuato- 

 convergent laterad, semi-ovate, carinate meso-caudad, very narrowly 

 acute-angulate emarginate at the apex. Ovipositor much shorter 

 than in the other species of the genus. 



Measurements (in millimeters.) 



<? Type. 9 Allotype. 



Hayti. Hayti. 



Length of body 7.2 7.1 



Length of pronotum 4.7 2.1 



Caudal width of pronotum 3. 2. 



Length of caudal femur 4.5 4 9 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.9 2. 



Length of ovipositor 3.6 



Color Notes. — Head, antennae, pronotum and limbs cinnamon. 

 The pronotum of the female and first abdominal segments with 

 dorsal surface somewhat darker, approaching mars-brown. Abdo- 

 men of male black, all but the dorsal surface of the proximal segments 

 the same color in the female. Ovipositor russet. Scales on dorsal 

 surface translucent wood-brown, appearing silvery to the naked 

 eye; on the ventral surfaces of head and edges of the abdominal 

 segments the scales are hoary -white ; the heavy covering of scales on 

 the limbs is of the same color. On all but the edges of the abdominal 

 segments on the ventral surface of the abdomen, the scales are 

 translucent wood-brown. 



Distribution. — The species is known from but two specimens from 

 the island of Hayti, and we have no information concerning the 

 habits of the insect. 



Specimens Examined. — 1 cf 1 , 1 9 . 



Hayti; (P. R. Uhler); 1 d\ 1 9. (c? Type.) [Scudder Col- 

 lection.] 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum n. sp. 



1905. Cycloptilus americanus Morse (not of Saussure, 1874), Psyche, XII, 



p. 21. [Nassau, New Providence Island, Bahamas.] 

 1907. Liphoplus krugii Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1897), Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 316 (in part). [Pablo Beach and San 



Pablo, Florida.! 

 1911. Cycloptilus squamosus Sherman and Brimley (not of Scudder, 1868), 



Ent, News, XXII, p. 391 (in part). [Raleigh, North Carolina.] 



This species differs from C. antillarum in the average smaller size 

 over the major portion of its range, the more graceful build, the more 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



205 



pronounced interantennal sulcus and very different terminal joint of 

 the maxillary palpi, the edges of which 

 when viewed from the side form an 

 isosceles triangle, owing to the fact that 

 this joint expands widely distad and is 

 very obliquely truncate. The pronotum 

 is proportionally narrower and smaller 

 in both sexes, the caudal femora are less 

 strongly inflated, while in the male the 

 subgenital plate is very slightly less 

 produced obtuse-angulate and in the 

 female it is semi-ovate, broadly obtuse- 

 angulate emarginate at the apex. 



Type : cf ; Isle of Hope, Chatham 

 County, Georgia, in heavy undergrowth 

 of green plants and vines, September 3, 

 1911. (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size smaller 

 and more slender than C. antillarum. 

 Head very small, the interantennal space roundly produced, divided 

 vertically by a distinct though minute sulcus. Maxillary palpi with 

 greatest length of terminal joint a very little more than greatest 

 length of penultimate joint. Terminal joint conical, sharply expand- 

 ing distad, very obliquely truncate, so much so that when viewed 

 from the side the edges form an isosceles triangle, the equal sides 



Fig. 11. — Cryptoptilum trigo- 

 nipalpum. Dorsal view of 



type. (X 4.) 



Fig. 12. — Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum. 

 Maxillary palpus. (Greatly magni- 

 fied.) 



J° 6 o 



Figs. 13-16. — Oblique views and rela- 

 tive terminal circumference of distal 

 joint of maxillary palpus of Cryptop- 

 tilum antillarum (figs. 13, 14) and 

 C. trigonipalpum (figs. 15, 16). 

 (Greatly magnified.) 



formed by the diameter of the apex and the shortest lateral dimen- 

 sion. Pronotum narrower than in antillarum, general form of 

 pronotum and tegmina as in that species. Cerci nearly as long as 

 the length of the entire body. Cephalic face of cephalic tibiae with 

 tympanum as in antillarum. Hind femora considerably less dilated 

 than in antillarum, armament of limbs similar. 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Allotypic 9 . Data the same as the type. 



Description of Allotype. — Slightly larger than male. Pronotum, 

 mesonotum and metanotum noticeably narrower than in antillarum, 

 bringing into prominence the depressed ovate abdomen. Tegmina 

 absent. Subgenital plate semi-ovate, broadly obtuse-angulate emar- 

 ginate at apex. Ovipositor as in antillarum. 



In addition to the type and allotype, the following specimens may 

 be considered paratypic: Isle of Hope, Ga. ; Sept. 3, 1911; (R. andH.); 

 1 cf n. Sandfly, Ga.; Sept, 3, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 9 . 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Charlotte Key 

 Type. Allotype. Harbor, Largo, 

 Isle of Hope, Ga. Fla. Fla. 



& 9 c? 9 



Length of body 7.1 8. 6.8 7.8 



Length of pronotum 4. 2.1 3.7 2. 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.5 2. 2.4 2. 



Length of caudal femur 5. 5. 4.2 5.1 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.7 1.8 1.3 1.9 



Length of ovipositor 5.2 4. 



Average of 

 Florence, S. C. entire adult series. 



& 9 cfcf 9 9 



Length of body 7. 8.5 7. 7.9 



Length of pronotum 4.1 2.1 3.9 2. 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.5 2.1 2.4 2. 



Length of caudal femur 5. 5.5 4.4 5. 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.6 1.8 1.6 1.7 



Length of ovipositor 6.2 4.8 



The measurements would indicate that this species is smaller than 

 specimens of antillarum from the same place over the greater portion 

 of its range, but as it decreases in size southward much less rapidly 

 than that species, the two species are very nearly of the same size 

 in southern Florida, though their proportions markedly differ. 



Color Notes. — There is scarcely any difference in ground coloration 

 between antillarum and the present species, except that, in the series 

 of the latter species before us, the maxillary palpi are never darkly 

 suffused, though of a richer brown than the surrounding facial parts, 

 and all have the dorsal surface of the abdomen wholly black. The 

 insects are thickly covered with nearly transparent scales, so that in 

 the field they frequently appear to have the black abdomen ringed 

 above at the intersection of the segments with whitish scales, due 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



to the fact that at the juncture of the segments the scales are some- 

 what raised, and the refraction of light gives them a whitish appear- 

 ance where such refraction occurs. 



Distribution. — This species is now known to occur in the Bahama 

 Islands and the southeastern United States. The series shows the 

 range of the species to extend from east-central North Carolina to 

 the northern Florida Keys and New Providence Island, Bahamas. 



Biological Notes. — This species was not always recognized in the 

 field as different from antillarum, although on one or two occasions 

 the notes refer to it as a different species. From our notes we are 

 therefore only able to state that the species occurs often in the same 

 general region with antillarum, but it is probable that it seeks rather 

 heavier growth than that species, as the fallowing field note 

 would suggest. "The Jungle Liphoplus* 3 has scales only oh under 

 side and around segments of abdomen giving it a ringed appearance 

 and a strikingly red and black color when compared with Liphoplus 

 krugii, which species is covered with sparse silvery scales, pronotum 

 and all." 



Specimens Examined. — 24; 8 males, 8 females and 8 nymphs. 



Raleigh, N. C; Sept., 1908; (Sherman); 1 &. [Coll. N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.] 



Lake Waccamaw, N. C; Sept. 8, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 9 . 



Florence, S. C; Sept. 6, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 cf , 1 9 . 



Sullivan Id., Charleston Co., N. C; Sept. 5, 1911; (R. and H.); 

 1 9. 



Isle of Hope, Ga.; Sept. 3, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 d\ 1 9 , 1 & n. 

 (<? Type; Hebard Collection). 



Sandfly, Ga.; Sept, 3, 1911; (R, and H.); 1 9 . 



Jacksonville, Fla. ; (Priddav) ; 1 9 . [Hebard Collection] : Aug. 

 25, 1911; (R. and H.); 2 c?.* 



Atlantic Beach, Fla.; Aug. 24, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 9 n. 



Pablo Beach, Fla.; 34 Aug. 13, 1905; (R. and H.); 1 c? n. 



San Pablo, Fla.; 34 Aug. 13, 1905; (R. and H.); 1 d\ 1 9 n. 



Charlotte Harbor, Fla. ; 1 d\ [Scudder Collection.] 



Punta Gorda, Fla.; Nov. 13, 1911; (W. T. Davis); 19. [W. T. 

 Davis Collection.] 



Key Largo, Fla.; March 18, 1910; (H.); 1 9 , 3 c? n. 



33 To distinguish it from C. antillarum which was then called Liphoplus krugii. 



34 These specimens were recorded as Liphoplus krugii by the authors, these 

 Proceedings, 1907, p. 316. At that time so few specimens of the group from 

 North America had been taken, and genera were so confused, that it was almost 

 impossible to determine with accuracy any of the species. The authors' notes 

 in that paper on Liphoplus, Cycloptilum and Ectaloderus are wholly erroneous. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Nassau, New Providence Island, Bahamas; Jan. 31, 1905; (A. E. 

 Wright); 1 &, 1 & n. 35 [Morse Collection.] 



Genus CYCLOPTILUM Scudder. 



1868. Cycloptilum Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat, Hist., XII, p. 142. 



1874. Cycloptilum Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 425 [in part]. 



1877. Cycloptilus Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 477 [in part]. 



1897. Cycloptilus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 231 [in part]. 



1897. Cycloptilum Scudder, Guide to Gen. Class, N. Amer. Orth., p. 64. 



1905. Liphoplus Rehn and Hebard (not of Saussure, 1877), Proc. Acad. 



Nat, Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 49. 



1909. Ectatoderus Rehn and Hebard (not of Guerin, 1849), ibid., 1909, p. 482. 



1909. Cycloptilum Davis, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XVII, p. 187. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype — Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder. 



Generic Description. — Form depressed, compact; surface clothed 

 with scales; pronotum produced caudad in male; tegmina absent 

 in female, projecting beyond pronotum in male. 



Head small, rounded, produced cephalad; interantennal pro- 

 tuberance with trace of vertical division. Pronotum of male narrow 

 cephalad, broadened and produced caudad, in length equal to about 

 half of the entire length of the body; of female subquadrate. Teg- 

 mina of male extending caudad of caudal margin of pronotum a 

 distance subequal to one-third the greatest pronotal length, tym- 

 panum perfectly developed, caudal margin of dorsal field of tegmina 

 strongly arcuate; lateral field of tegmina well developed. Ovi- 

 positor nearly straight, sub-lanceolate at apex, the latter with margins 

 unarmed. Subgenital plate of female with distal margin complete 

 or distinctly but transversely emarginate mesad. Cerci of both 

 sexes elongate, tapering. Cephalic tibiae with the cephalic face 

 bearing a distinct tympanum. Caudal femora greatly dilated; 

 caudal tibiae with three pair of well-developed distal spurs, the 

 dor so-internal shorter than the ventro-internal spur; caudal meta- 

 tarsus sulcate dorsad, serrate on both dorsal margins, the distal 

 extremity armed on both sides with a spur which extends well 

 beyond the base of the distal tarsal joint. 



Distribution in North America. — Extending from central New 

 Jersey southward to extreme southern Florida, westward in the 

 South through Texas to southern Arizona and theMojave Desert in 



35 The specimens from this locality recorded as Cycloptilus americanus by 

 Morse, Psyche, XII, p. 21, 1905, cannot be found. The present specimens 

 from the collection of Professor Morse were determined by him as that same 

 species, but the records have not been published. We feel, therefore, confident 

 that those specimens recorded as Cycloptilus americanus are the authors' new 

 species, Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum, to which the present specimens unques- 

 tionably belong. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



California, and northward to northern Nebraska and extreme north- 

 eastern Colorado. 



Key to Cycloptilum Scudder. 



A. Size small; pronotum of male with cephalic portion of dorsum 

 well rounded, caudal portion broadened and distinctly flat- 

 tened; the lateral outline of the pronotum when seen from 

 above expanding more sharply caudad; pronotum of female 

 small; ovipositor 3 mm. or over squamosum Scudder. 



AA. Size very small; pronotum of male with entire dorsum trans- 

 versely well rounded, caudal portion not so much broadened; 

 the lateral outline of the pronotum when seen from above 

 expanding regularly but very slightly; pronotum of female 

 very small; ovipositor less than 3 mm., 



zebra (Rehn and Hebard.) 



Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder. 



1868. Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., XII, 

 p. 142. [Texas.] 



1874. Cycloptilum squamosum Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, 

 p. 427. [Texas.] 



1877. Cycloptilus squam/jsus Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 477. [Texas.] 



1891. Cycloptilus borealis Brunei - , Can. Ent., XXIII, p. 37. [Xear Xiobrara 

 River at Valentine and Lincoln, Xebraska.] 



1893. Cycloptilum boreale Brunei - , Publ. Xebr. Acad. Sci., Ill, p. 33. [Cen- 

 tral and Xorthern Xebraska.] 



1897. Cycloptilus squamosus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 231. 

 [Dallas, Texas.] 



1903. Cycloptilus squamosus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., XXVI, p. SOS. 

 [Victoria, Texas.] 



1905. Cycloptilum squamosum? Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1904, p. 799. [Thomasville, Georgia.] 



1907. Liphoplus krugii Rehn and Hebard, ibid., 1907, p. 361 (in part). 

 [San Pablo and Gainesville, Fla.] 



1909. Ectatoderus occidentalis ? Rehn and Hebard, ibid., 1909, p. 482. [Cot- 

 tonwood, California.] 



1909. Cycloptilum squamosum Davis, Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, XVII, p. 187. 

 [Lakehurst, Xew Jersey.] 



1910. Cycloptilus squamosus Allard, Proc. Ent. Soc. Wash., XII, p. 42. 

 [Thompson's Mills, Georgia.] 



1910. Cycloptilus squamosus Rehn in Smith, Ann. Rept. Xew Jersev State 

 Mus., 1909, p. 191. [Lakehurst, Xew Jersey.] 



1911. Cycloptilus americanus Sherman and Brimley (not Cycloptilum ameri- 

 canum Saussure, 1874), Ent. Xews, XXII, p. 391. [Raleigh and "Ala- 

 mance County," Xorth Carolina.] 



Type: c? ; Texas. (Belfrage.) [Scudder Collection.] 

 Description of Type.— Size small for the group, head very small, 

 interantennal protuberance well produced, rounded, with trace of 

 vertical division. Maxillary palpi with penultimate joint not more 

 than two-thirds as long as terminal joint, the latter gently expanding 

 distad, gently obliquely truncate. Eyes reniform in outline, sub- 

 vertical. Pronotum strongly narrowed cephalad, considerably 




210 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



broadened and produced caudad, its caudal margin forming nearly 

 a semicircle, the cephalic portion of the dorsum well rounded, the 

 broadened caudal portion of the dorsum distinctly flattened. Teg- 

 mina with dorsal field as broad as pronotum at its widest part, 

 tympanum perfectly developed, caudal margin*of tegmina subequal 

 in arcuation to the caudal margin of the pronotum; lateral field of 

 tegmina well developed, embracing abdomen; the cephalic two- 

 thirds of the tegmina concealed by the pronotum, the visible portion 

 extending caudad of the caudal margin of the pronotum a distance 

 subequal to one-third the greatest pronotal length. 



Cerci more than one-half as long as abdomen. Cephalic tibiae 

 with cephalic face bearing a distinct tympanum. Caudal femora 

 greatly dilated. Caudal tibiae with three pair of well-developed 

 distal spurs, the dorso-internal very slightly shorter than the ventro- 

 internal spur, the medio-internal spur is the longest and has 'its length 



Fig. 17. — C y clop til u m squamosum. 

 Dorsal view of type. (X 4.) 



Fig. 18. — Cycloptilum squamosum. In- 

 ternal face of caudal metatarsus and 

 internal tibial spurs. (Greatly mag- 

 nified.) 



contained two and one-quarter times in the metatarsus. Caudal 

 metatarsus rather long, straight, rather broad, sulcate dorsad, both 

 dorsal margins armed with short, well-separated serrations five on 

 inner and eight on outer margin, 36 the distal extremity armed on 

 both sides with a spur, the somewhat longer inner spur reaching to 

 nearly the end of the first quarter of the terminal tarsal joint. 



Allotypic 9 : Dallas, Texas. [United States National Museum 

 Collection.] 



Description of Allotype here Selected. — The specimen differs from 

 the male type in that it is somewhat larger, the pronotum is sub- 

 quadrate, narrowing very slightly cephalad, and the tegmina are 

 absent. The subgenital plate is arcuato-convergent laterad, with 



36 See note under Cryptoptilum antUlarum concerning variability as to number 

 of these serrations. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



distal section of margin complete. 37 The ovipositor is fairly long 

 and nearly straight, somewhat elongate sublanceolate at apex, the 

 base alone showing a slight upward curvature, lateral division of 

 valves exactly at middle of sides, the apex with margins unarmed. 

 Length of ovipositor contained in length of cerci nearly one and 

 one-quarter times. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



C. boreal is Br. 

 Type. Allotype. Allotype. Type. 

 Texas. Dallas, Tex. Lincoln, Neb. 



c? 9 c? 9 



Length of bodv 6.3 7.2 6.6 38 6.2 



Length of pronotum 3.4 2.2 3. 2.1 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.9 2.1 2.6 2. 



Length of caudal femur 3.5 4.2 3.9 4.1 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.5 1.8 1.8 1.9 



Length of ovipositor 3.6 3. 



Cumberland Island, Wrightsville," 

 Georgia. North Carolina. 



cf 9 & 9 



Length of body 6.1 6.3 6.1 6. 



Length of pronotum 3.3 2. 3.4 2. 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.7 1.9 2.6 1.9 



Length of caudal femur 4. 4.4 4.1 3.7 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.7 1.8 1.5 1.5 



Length of ovipositor 3. 3. 



Measurements taken of a large series from St. Simon's Island, 

 Georgia, show that there is an equal or 

 greater amount of variation among indi- 

 viduals from that locality than is found in 

 the specimens whose measurements are 

 given above. Length of body; <?, 5.4-6.9 squamosum. Apex of 

 mm.; 9, 5.6-6.9: length of pronotum; cf, ovipositor. (Greatly 

 3.1-3.9; 9, 2-2.1: caudal width of prono- m »g nified -> 

 turn; a", 2.5-2.7; 9, 1.9-2: length of caudal femur; <? , 3.8-4.2; 

 9 , 3.5-4.2: greatest width of caudal femur; d\ 1.3-1.8; 9 , 1.6-1.9: 

 length of ovipositor; 3.6-2.9. 



Color Notes. — Over the more arid portions of the range of this 

 species (which includes the type locality) the general color of the 

 insects is rather pale brown, the entire body more or less covered 



37 For variability of this character see note in '•Remarks.' 



38 Appears to have been somewhat squeezed out. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



with silvery or yellowish scales, while a post-ocular bar of darker 

 scales frequently extends as a narrow line of dark scales along the 

 dorsal edge of the lateral lobes of the pronotum to its caudal margin. 

 In specimens which have lost their scaly covering no trace of such a 

 line exists, the ground color of head, pronotum, limbs and first two 

 or three segments of the abdomen is found to be russet, while the 

 remainder of the abdomen is black. The maxillary palpi are much 

 suffused with blackish, this is most pronounced in the darkest 

 specimens. The ovipositor is vandyke-brown. 



Specimens from Nebraska show, in individuals which have lost 

 their scaly covering, the same coloration, but when fully clothed with 

 scales their appearance is rather more yellowish, owing to the fact 

 that in these individuals a greater proportion of their scales are more 

 yellowish than in specimens from the arid West. 



Individuals from the Atlantic coast are similar to western specimens 

 in body coloration, but their scale covering is usually composed 

 chiefly of blackish or slate-colored scales, which gives the specimens 

 a dark and somewhat mottled appearance quite different from that 

 of western representatives of the species. This difference in colora- 

 tion is augmented by the fact that while in western individuals the 

 caudal margin of the tegmina is marked with a few faintly darker 

 veins, the Atlantic coast representatives of the species have this 

 margin heavily and strikingly velvety black. 



Distribution. — This species is now known to range from central 

 New Jersey southward on the Atlantic coast to north-central Florida, 

 westward across Texas and southern Arizona as far as the Mojave 

 Desert in California, in the middle west north to the northern 

 boundary of Colorado, and over the entire central and north- 

 eastern portions of Nebraska. 



This distribution is rather surprising owing to the fact that the 

 species is to be found both in the humid regions of the East and the 

 areas of extreme aridity of the Southwest. The vertical range of the 

 species is known to extend from sea level to an elevation of 3,550 feet 

 on the Great Plains, 2,274 feet in the Mojave Desert, and 2,500 feet 

 in Pima County, Arizona. 



Biological Notes. — At Cottonwood, California, 39 this species was 

 common under creosote bush (Covillea), where, among the collected 

 refuse at the base of the bushes, the insects were heard shrilly stridu- 

 lating at dusk and later. The sound produced was an incessant and 



Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila., 1909, p. 482. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



high-pitched zeee-zeee-zeee. Along the Atlantic coast the authors 

 have found the species under boards and various other debris on the 

 ground, usually along the edge of, or in forest growth, and almost 

 always in very small numbers. Once, however, a locality was 

 examined where the little insects were present in countless numbers; 

 this was on St. Simon's Island, Georgia, where myriads were found 

 jumping about among the dead leaves and very few low plants and 

 grasses growing on the sandy soil under live oaks. Professor Bruner 

 has stated that the synonymous C. borealis is common in Nebraska 

 among dry grass and under boards on sandy soil. 



Synonymy. — As we have before us one male and fifteen females 

 of the typical series of Cycloptilus borealis Bruner, we are enabled to 

 refer it unhesitatingly to the present species. There are no differ- 

 ences between these specimens and the type and allotype of squamo- 

 sum, except in the coloration of the scaly covering which in the 

 present species is exceedingly variable. We find Scudder's measure- 

 ments to be accurate, while those given by Bruner in the original 

 description of borealis are quite different from what we find to be the 

 case in the typical series, which in size and proportions can in no way 

 be separated from squamosum. 



Remarks. — In the series of females before us, the distal section of 

 the margin of the subgenital plate varies from a type which is arcuato- 

 convergent laterad with the distal section of the margin complete, 

 to one which has the distal section of the margin broadly emarginate, 

 this emargination flanked laterad by acute spiniform angles. The 

 majority of specimens from the Atlantic coast have this emargination 

 present, while it is absent in the majority of western specimens, but 

 an examination of the series shows that it is not constant and that 

 in this species the entire form of the subgenital plate is exceedingly 

 variable in the female sex, while in the male it is simple and broadly 

 arcuate. 



Specimens Examined. — 215; 83 males, 115 females, and 17 nymphs. 



Pinev Point, Md.; Sept. 14, 1902; (Pergande); 1 9 . [U. S. N. M.] 



Raleigh, N. C; Oct. 2, 1903; 1 9 : Aug. 16, 1906; 1 cf : Oct. 

 30, 1907; 1 d\ 1 9 : Sept. 30, 1898; 2 9. (All Brimley.) [Brim- 

 ley Collection.] 



Wilmington, N. C; Sept. 8, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 <? . 



Winter Park, N. C; Sept, 7, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 9 . 



Wrightsville, N. C; Sept. 7, 1911; (R. and H.); 2 d\ 1 9 . 



Florence, S. C; Sept, 6, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 d\ 



Yemassee, S. C; Sept. 4, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 o\ 1 9 . 



Thompson's Mills, Ga.; Oct. 1909; (Allard); 1 d\ 1 9. [U. S. 

 X. M.] 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Isle of Hope, Ga.; Sept. 3, 1911 ; (R. and H.) ; 4^,2 9 . 



St. Simon's Id., Ga.; Aug. 30, 1911; (R. and H.); 48 cT, 56 9, 

 3 9 n. 



Cumberland Id., Ga.; Aug. 31, 1911; (H.); 6 d\ 13 9 , 5 9 n. 



Brunswick, Ga.; Aug. 30, 1911; (H.); 1 &, 3 9. 



Thomasville, Ga.; Aug. 3, 1903; (for H.); 1 cf n. 



Atlantic Beach, Fla.; Aug. 25, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 d\ 3 9 . 



San Pablo, Fla.; 40 Aug. 13, 1905; (R. and H.); 1 9 , 1 9 n. 



Live Oak, Fla.; Aug. 26, 1911; (R. and H.); 1 cT n. 



Gainesville, Fla.; 40 Aug. 16, 1905; (R. andH.); 1 9. 



Texas; (Belfrage); 2 d\ 41 [Scudder Collection.] 



Dallas, Tex.; 2 9 , 1 <? n. [U. S. N. M.] 



Columbus, Tex.; May 31; 1 &. [U. S. N. M.] 



New Braunfels, Tex.; Sept, 8; (Schwarz); 1 tf 1 , 1 d" n. [U. S. 

 N. M.] 



Victoria, Tex.; June; (Caudell); 1 <? n. [U. S. N. M.] 



Calhoun County, Tex.; (J. W. Mitchell) ; 1 9 . [U. S. N. M.] 



Carrizo Springs, Tex.; (A. Wadgymar); 3 c?, 3 9. [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Brownsville, Tex.; May 13-24, 1904, June 6, 1904; (Barber); 

 6 d 1 , 1 9 , 1 cf n. 1 9 n. [U. S. N. M., A. N. S. P., Hebard Collec- 

 tion.] 



Tumamoc Hill, Tucson Mts., Ariz.; Oct, 3-4, 1910; (R. and H.); 



2 9. 



Snyder's Hill, Pima Co., Ariz.; Oct, 11, 1910; (R, and H.); 1 9 . 

 Tinajas Altas, Yuma County, Ariz.; 1905; (W. J. McGee); 1 9 . 



[U. S. N. M.] 



Cottonwood, San Bernardino County, Cal.; Sept, 9, 1907; (H.); 



1 cf • 

 Julesburg, Colo.; July 29, 1910; (H.); 1 & n. 

 Lincoln, Nebr.; Sept, 1888; 1 cf, 15 9 . 42 

 Sidney, Nebr.; 1 9. [Hebard Collection.] 



Cycloptilum zebra (Rehn & Hebard). 



1905. Liphoplus zebra Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, 

 p. 49, pi. I, fig. 12. [Miami, Florida.] 



At the time of the original description the authors were not ac- 

 quainted with the Scudderian genus Cycloptilum, and Saussure's 

 misconception led us to suppose that the present species did not 

 belong to that genus. We are now able to state definitely the fol- 

 lowing facts: 



40 These specimens were unfortunately recorded as Liphoplus krugii by the 

 authors. These Proceedings, 1907, p. 316. 



41 One of these two specimens is the unique type of Cycloptilum squamosum 

 Scudder. 



42 These are from the paratypic series of Cycloptilus berealis Bruner, which are 

 divided as follows: lcf, 10 9 (including the single type and allotype), Hebard 

 Collection; 2 9 , Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila, ; 1 9 , U. S. X. M . ; 2 9 , Scudder Collection. 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



215 



The present species is distinguished from Cycloptilum squamosum 

 by its smaller size, relatively more regularly convex dorsal surface 

 of the pronotum in the male, which is less expanded caudad and is 

 much shorter. In the female the pronotum is very small and narrows 

 somewhat more cephalad. Proprtionately, the limbs are shorter 

 and the caudal femora more flea-like. Differences in coloration are 

 also apparent and are given in the color description below. 



Type: cT ; Miami, Dade County, Florida, on wire-grass in low 

 undergrowth of pine woods, February 6, 1904. (Hebard.) [Hebard 

 Collection.] 



Description of Type. — Size very small for the group. Head with 

 interantennal protuberance much as in squa- 

 mosus, but the perpendicular division is some- 

 what more apparent, very narrow but distinct. 

 Maxillary palpi with penultimate joint not 

 more than two-thirds as long as terminal 

 joint, the latter gently expanding distad and 

 gently obliquely truncate. Eyes reniform in 

 outline, subvertical. Pronotum with cephalic 

 width of dorsal surface approaching caudal width 

 of the same more nearly than in squamosum, 

 considerably produced caudad, its caudal margin 

 forming nearly a semicircle, the whole of the 

 dorsum well rounded. Tegmina with dorsal 

 field slightly broader than pronotum at its widest 

 point, tympanum perfectly developed, caudal 

 margin of tegmina subequal in arcuation to the 

 caudal margin of the pronotum. Cerci missing in 

 type (in other males of this species the cerci are more than one-half 

 as long as the abdomen). Cephalic tibia? with cephalic face bearing a 

 minute but distinct tympanum. Caudal femora more dilated than 

 in squamosum. Caudal tibiae with three pair of well-developed distal 

 spurs, the dorso-internal very slightly shorter than the ventro- 

 internal spur; the medio-internal spur is the longest and has its 

 length contained two and one-quarter times in the metatarsus. 

 Caudal metatarsus fairly long, straight, rather broad, sulcate dorsad, 

 both dorsal margins armed with short, well separated serrations, 

 much as in C. squamosum, the distal extremity armed on both sides 

 with a spur which extends to nearly the end of the first third of the 

 terminal tarsal joint. 



Allotypic 9 : Key West, Monroe County, Florida, on underside 



Fig. 20. — Cydopti- 

 lum zebra. Dor- 

 sal view of tvpe. 

 (X4.) 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



of coquina boulder on sandy strand, March 16, 1910. (Hebard.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype here Selected. — Very slightly larger than type. 

 Pronotum subquadrate, narrowing perceptibly cephalad; tegmina 

 absent. Ovipositor rather short, straight, somewhat elongate sub- 

 lanceolate at apex, lateral division of valves exactly at middle of 

 sides, the apex with margins unarmed. Subgenital plate arcuato- 

 convergent laterad, distal section of margin flattened but with no 

 emargination. Cerci reaching but very little beyond the tip of the 

 ovipositor. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Type. Allotype. Lake Long 



Miami, Key West, Worth, Key, 



Fla. Fla. Fla. Fla. 



C? 9 c? 9 



Length of body 5. 5. 6. 43 5.1 



Length of pronotum 2.9 1.7 2.6 1.6 



Greatest width of pronotum 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.6 



Length of caudal femur 3.1 3.4 3.4 3.2 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.1 1.4 1.4 1.2 



Length of ovipositor 2.8 2.7 



Average in Key West, Fla., series. 



cT 9 



Length of body 5.2 (5. -5.5) 5.2 (4.9-5.5) 



Length of pronotum 2.4 (2.3-2.6) 1.5 (1.3-1.7) 



Greatest width of pronotum 2. (1.9-2.1) 1.7(1.5-1.8) 



Length of caudal femur 3.1 (3. -3.2) 3.5 (3.4-3.7) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 1.2 (1.1-1.4) 1.3 (1.3-1.4) 



Length of ovipositor 2.8 (2.7-2.9) 



Color Notes. — The entire territory over which this species is known 

 has much of its surface composed of rough coquina rock which rock is 

 very white. The species is wholly terrestrial, and we find that its 

 scaly covering is silvery, usually with limbs barred and body spotted 

 and mottled with dark brown scales; this coloration so matches the 

 surface of the coquina rock that the little insects are practically 

 invisible when at rest. The insect is very much whiter in appearance 

 than its larger relative C. squamosum, even where specimens of that 

 species from the arid West are found covered with pale yellowish 

 scales. The postocular bar is very dark in this species and in the 

 entire series before us extends along the upper edge of the lateral 



43 Specimen much squeezed out, normal length probably about 5 mm. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



lobes of the pronotum to the caudal margin. Rubbed specimens 

 show that the ground color of the species on head, pronotum, meso- 

 notum, metanotum and all of the limbs is very pale yellowish, while 

 the abdomen is black and the ovipositor dark brown. Unlike in 

 squamosum, the post-ocular bar mentioned above is present not only 

 in scale coloration but ground coloration as well, while the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum are somewhat lighter in coloration than its 

 dorsal surface. The maxillary palpi are usually light, the apical 

 joint suffused with blackish distad, this darker suffusion in a few 

 cases overspreading the last three joints. The tegmina are bone 

 white, the caudal border lightly blotched with black. 



Distribution. — Lake Worth, southward to Key West, Florida. 



Biological Notes. — Nearly all of the specimens of this terrestrial 

 species have been captured hiding on the under surface of coquina 

 boulders near or on the strand ; the type, however, was captured in the 

 low undergrowth growing on rough coquina rock in the scattering 

 pine woods back of Miami. The little insects have never been found 

 more than two or three at a time, and usually a considerable area 

 has to be carefully searched before any specimens are discovered. 

 When first exposed they usually remain motionless and closely 

 pressed to the surface of the rock under which they had been hiding; 

 when disturbed, however, they spring about wildly and are so hard 

 to follow with the eye that unless captured before they are thor- 

 oughly aroused, individuals have excellent chances of escaping. 



Remarks. — This species is unquestionably closely related to 

 Cycloptilum squamosum, and it is possible that it may prove to be a 

 geographic race of that species limited to southern Florida. Without 

 material from the region between Palm Beach and Jacksonville, 

 however, we are unable to find the slightest suggestion of inter- 

 gradation. The facts that the characters which separate zebra 

 from squamosum are constant, and that the former species is invaria- 

 bly much the smaller, rather suggest that zebra is not a race at all, 

 since over the tremendous range of squamosum, no such differences 

 are to be found in that species. 



In the entire series of females the subgenital plate is, without 

 exception, arcuato-convergent laterad with the distal section of the 

 margin flattened, but with no trace of the emargination and acute 

 spiniform angles found in so many females of squamosum from the* 

 Atlantic coast. 



Specimens Examined. — 21; 6 males, 9 females and 6 nymphs. 

 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julie, 



Lake Worth, Fla. ; (Slosson) ; 1 9 , 2 n. [Scudder Collection.] ; 

 1 d* . [Hebard Collection.] 



Miami, Fla.; February 6, 1904; (H.) ; 1 d 1 (Type). [Hebard 

 Collection.]; (Slosson); 1 n. [Scudder Collection.] 



Long Key, Fla.; March 13, 1910; (H.); 1 9. [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Key West, Fla.; March 15, 16, 1910; (H.); 4^,7 9 , 3 & n. 44 



OLIGACANTHOPUS 4 ' new genus. 



1905. Mogoplistes Rehn and Hebard (not of Serville, 1839), Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1905, p. 4. 



Genus monotypic. Genotype — Oligacanthopus prograptus, n. sp. 



This genus, known from a single female, is widely separated from 

 all others of the group. In some respects a relationship, or develop- 

 ment along similar lines to Glaphyropus, is apparent; this is shown in 

 "he compact build, rounded head, small eyes, broadly rounded and 

 but little produced interantennal space, which is not divided by a 

 vertical sulcus, and similar caudal femora. 



With these characters, however, similarity to Glaphyropus ceases 

 and we find, instead, a close relationship to Cycloptilum in the follow- 

 ing respects: maxillary palpi very much like those found in Cyclopti- 

 lum, cephalic and median limbs also similar, very different from the 

 elongate type found in Glaphyropus; ovipositor of the type of Cyclopti- 

 lum, but somewhat arcuato-convex and differing from all other known 

 North American members of the group in having the ventral margins 

 of the apex armed distad with a row of minute but true serrulations ; 

 cerci of the type found in Cycloptilum, caudal tarsi even shorter and 

 proportionally heavier ; armament of limbs of the same type as found 

 in Cycloptilum but reduced in size to an extreme degree; the metatarsi 

 are proportionally very long, nearly intermediate between Glaphy- 

 ropus and Cycloptilum, but more closely approaching the former, the 

 dorsal margins armed with serrulations similar to those of Cycloptilum, 

 but so fine that they apparent only in a good light under a microscope. 

 Consequently we see that the caudal limbs are most peculiar in 

 having proportions and armament differing strikingly from any 

 other known species; the caudal femora are elongate and not at all 

 flea-like, the tarsi are very short, quite heavy and armed with minute 

 distal spurs, while the metatarsi are proportionally very long and 

 slender, their dorsal margins so finely serrate that these could almost 



be termed unarmed and their terminal spurs minute. 



*. 



44 These specimens are distributed as follows: lcf, 3 9, 3 9 n., Hebard Col- 

 lection; lo%2 9, A. N. S. P.; ld\ 1 9 , U. S. N.M.; lo\ 1 9 , Mus. Comp. Zool. 



4b From b'/jyoc, small, anavOa, thorn, and Kovg, feet; in allusion to the very 

 small tarsal spurs. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



When compared with Mogoplistes the following differences are 

 found. Head very different, ovoid, interantennal protuberance not 

 as produced and with no vertical sulcus, eyes not so protuberant; 

 pronotum with dorsal surface more flattened; caudal femora shorter, 

 caudal tarsi very much shorter, proportionally very much longer 

 caudal metatarsi; armament of limbs different, as in Cycloptilum, 

 but all of the spurs and serrulations much smaller. The ovipositor 

 in Mogoplistes is straight, rather long, with lateral division of valves 

 exactly at middle proximad, but rising sharply and much nearer the 

 dorsal margin over the greater length of the ovipositor, the apex is 

 not widened and is armed on the ventral edge of the dorsal valves 

 with blunt, knob-like serrations, while the surface of the dorsal valves 

 is finely punctate. In Oligacanthopus the ovipositor is very different 

 from this as may be seen by reference to the description. 



Generic Description. — Head small, transverse, subelongate, smooth, 

 interantennal protuberance weak, broadly rounded, flattened distad, 

 no vertical dividing sulcus present; eyes pyriform, very slightly 

 inflated; maxillary palpi not very long, gently expanding distad, 

 the distal joint mildly obliquely truncate. Pronotum of female 

 subquadrate in form, cephalic margin subtruncate, weakly arcuato- 

 emarginate, caudal margin weakly arcuate, leaving the entire metano- 

 tum exposed. Tegmina absent in female. Ovipositor very gently 

 arcuato-convex, very short, somewhat elongate sublanceolate at 

 apex, lateral division of valves exactly at middle of sides, the 

 surface of apex smooth, the ventral margins of the ventral valves 

 armed distad with a row of minute serrulations. Subgenital plate 

 of female rotundato-trigonal. Cerci elongate, subcrassate, tapering. 

 Caudal femora dilated; caudal tibiae proportionately heavy and short, 

 minutely serrulate on dorsal margins, with three pair of distal spurs, 

 the dorso-internal shorter than the ventro-internal; caudal meta- 

 tarsus elongate, proportionately slender, equal to over one-half the 

 caudal tibia in length, dorsal margins supplied with minute serrula- 

 tions, second joint not quite as long as third joint. 



Distribution in North America. — Extreme southern Florida. 



Oligacanthopus prograptus 1 " n. sp. 



1905. Mogoplistes slossoni Rehn and Hebard (not Mogosiplistus slossoui 

 Scudder, 1897), Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 190o, p. 48. [Miami, 

 Florida.] 



Type: 9 ; Miami, Dade County, Florida, under sign on oak in 

 "hammock," February 6, 1904. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



46 From ~/">, in front, and ypairroc, that which is written upon; in allusion to 

 the striking dark bars on the facial protuberance. 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Description of Type. — Size small; form depressed, compact; surface 

 covered heavily with scales. Head ovoid, occipital outline depressed, 



Fig. 21. — Oligacanthopus prograptus. Internal face of caudal metatarsus and 

 internal tibial spurs. (Greatly magnified.) 



weakly arcuate dorsad; interantennal protuberance separated from 

 vertex by a well-marked transverse interantennal sulcus. Maxillary 

 palpi with penultimate joint not more than two-thirds as long as 

 terminal joint, the latter gently expanding distad, gently obliquely 

 truncate. Pronotum with dorsum transversely very gently arcuate, 

 curving sharply laterad, caudal width subequal to length, lateral 

 outlines of disk straight, subparallel; lateral lobes passing into disk 

 with an angulation but slightly indicated, depth of lobes over one- 

 quarter their greatest length, ventral margin sinuato-truncate. 

 Subgenital plate arcuato-trigonal, subcompressed. Ovipositor 

 shorter than caudal femur, gradually thickened proximad, very 

 gently arcuato-convex, somewhat elongate sublanceolate at apex, 

 the surface of apex smooth, the ventral margins of the ventral valves 

 armed distad with a row of minute serrulations. No tympanum pres- 

 ent on the cephalic tibiae. Caudal tibiae straight ; armament of same 

 similar to that found in Cycloptilum, but greatly reduced in size, much 

 smaller than in any other known North American species of the 

 Mogoplistii, the medio-external spur nearly twice the length of the 

 dorso- and ventro-external spurs. Caudal metatarsus straight, 

 subcompressed; distal spurs reduced to very small heavy teeth 

 which are sharply upcurved distad and scarcely reach the base of the 



Fig. 22. — Oligacanthopus pro- 

 graptus. Apex of ovipositor. Fig. 23. — Oligacanthopus prograptus. Ceph- 

 (Greatly magnified.) alic aspect of head. (Much enlarged.) 



second tarsal joint, which is twice the length of one of these external 

 spurs; these, as is true also in the tarsal spurs, are longer than the 

 homologous internal spurs. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Measurements (in millimeters). — 9 : Length of body, 5.8; length 

 of pronotum, 1.5; caudal width of pronotum, 1.4; length of caudal 

 femur, 3.7; greatest width of caudal femur, 1.2; length of caudal 

 •tarsus, 2; length of caudal metatarsus, 1.2; length of ovipositor, 2.5. 



Color Notes. — So heavily covered with scales is the only specimen 

 known that it is difficult to state the ground coloration of the insect. 

 This coloration appears to be very pale wood-brown over the entire 

 surface of the body; the interantennal protuberance never has the 

 distal portion scaled, and in the present species this is strikingly 

 marked with four parallel vertical bars of bistre separated by bars 

 of the ground color of the same width, these somewhat more tinged 

 with yellowish. The terminal joints of the maxillary palpi have 

 also a broad band of bistre encircling their median portion, while the 

 tip is more yellowish than the basal portion of the palpi which is of 

 the prevailing very pale wood-brown. The antennae are colored as 

 the tips of the maxillary palpi, but have the third, sixth, tenth and 

 sixteenth joints on each side bistre. The scaly covering is composed 

 of silvery scales among which darker ones are found in confused 

 masses, the tarsi all are distinctly twice banded with these scales, 

 and in addition the base of the caudal tarsis is so darkened. The 

 general effect is that of an irregularly mottled silvery hair-brown 

 insect with banded limbs. 



Biological Notes. — Although but a single specimen of this species 

 has been captured, others were seen. All of these were observed 

 at Miami, Florida, in the heavy semi-tropical "hammock" on the 

 south bank of the Miami River, and were found by prying up loose 

 pieces of bark and tearing off signs on the low oak trees. When 

 exposed the insects sprang wildly about, to which habit is due the 

 fact that but a single specimen was taken. 



Distribution. — Miami, Dade County, Florida. 



Synonymy. — When the specimen, on which this species is based, 

 was first recorded, the authors confused it with Scudder's Mogosi- 

 plistus slossoni [Cryptoptilum antillarum] partially owing to the fact 

 that Saussure had stated that the interantennal protuberance of 

 Mogoplistes (Mogisoplistus Saussure, 1877; not Mogosiplistus Scudder, 

 1897) was not divided by a median vertical sulcus. Specimens from 

 Saussure before us of the type of that genus, Mogoplistes brunneus, 

 prove that though the interantennal protuberance is not absolutely 

 divided by a sulcus, still it shows a distinct though minute sulcation 

 quite as strongly as Cryptoptilum antillarum. This sulcation appears 

 to be found in nearly all the species of the present group, and although 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



in Glaphyropus and Oligacanthopus this may be said to be absent, 

 under a powerful microscope traces of such a suture may be found. 

 Liphoplus and Arachnocephalus are said to have the protuberance so 

 distinctly sulcate that, when viewed from above, the interantennal 

 protuberance can be seen to be divided by a sulcus which separates 

 this part into two distinct lobes. In all of the other known genera a 

 distinct but more or less subobsolete sulcus exists. The variation in 

 individual opinion in considering this type sulcate or non-sulcate has 

 led to much confusion. 

 Specimens Examined. — 1 9 . 



Miami, Fla.; Feb. 6, 1904; (H.); 1 9. (Type) [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



HOPLOSPHYRUM 47 new genus. 



1868. Mogoplistes Scudder (not of Serville, 1839), Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 



Hist., XII, p. 142. 

 1874. Mogoplistes Saussure, Miss. Sri. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 423 (in part). 

 1877. Mogisoplistus Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 463 (in part). 

 1897. Ectatoderus Saussure (not of Guerin, 1849), Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 



I, p. 230. . 



1902. Ectatoderus Scudder (not of Guerin, 1849), Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., 



IX, p. 58. 



Genus includes three species. Genotype — Hoplosphyrum occi- 

 dentale [Mogoplistes occidentalis] (Scudder). 



.The genus Hoplosphyrum is erected to include forms which are 

 closer to Ornebius Guerin than to any other genus, but from which, 

 individuals of this genus can be readily separated by the elongate 

 median spur of the caudal tibiae and the very peculiar non-dilated 

 apex of the ovipositor. The form of the pronotum and the apparent 

 tegmina of the males show that they are not at all related to true 

 Ectatoderus, while the presence of well-developed tegmina in the 

 male, the ovipositor structure in the female, and the spur propor- 

 tions are readily appreciable characters to differentiate the new 

 genus from Mogoplistes. 



Generic Description. — Form hardly depressed, compact, surface 

 clothed with scales; pronotum little produced caudad in male, in 

 general subquadrate dorsad ; tegmina absent in female, well-developed 

 and projecting caudad of pronotum in male. 



Head little produced cephalad; interantennal protuberance with 

 slightest trace of vertical division. Pronotum of male subdepressed, 



7 From '''../mi •, arm or weapon, and cyvpov, ankle; in allusion to the long spurs 

 on the distal extremities of the caudal tibiae. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22! 



subquadrate or slightly longer than wide, narrowing but little ceph- 

 alad, cephalic margin areuato-emarginate, caudal margin arcuato- 

 truncate; of female transversely arcuate, subquadrate in form, 

 cephalic margin areuato-emarginate, caudal margin emarginato- 

 truncate; disk in both sexes cephalad with paired pyriform impressed 

 outlines flanked cephalad and caudad by single subcallous points. 

 Tegmina of male extending caudad of pronotum a distance equal or 

 subequal to the pronotal length, broad, distal margin arcuate, 

 tympanum fully developed, lateral field deep. Ovipositor cylindrical, 

 straight or but little arcuate, apex simple, not differentiated from the 

 shaft, unarmed, immediate apex acute. Subgenital plate of both 

 sexes with the distal margin not excised, this plate in females com- 

 pressed. Cerci of both sexes elongate, tapering. Cephalic tibiae with 

 the cephalic face with a distinct tympanum. Caudal femora dilated; 

 caudal tibiae straight, robust, deplanate dorsad, serrate dorso-laterad^ 

 with three pair of distal spurs, the dorso-internal shorter than the 

 ventro-internal, the medio-internal elongate, reaching to the middle of 

 the metatarsus; caudal metatarsus compressed, sulcate dorsad, 

 strongly serrate on both dorsal margins, armed disto-laterad with 

 spurs which cover the proximal portion of the terminal joint of the 

 tarsus. 



Distribution in Xoiih America. — Extending from southern X<\ 

 Mexico to the southern slopes of the Sierra Madre in California, 

 southward to the Cape Region of Lower California, and also in the 

 state of Guerrero, Mexico. 



Key to Hoplosphyrum, New Genus. 



A. Terminal palpal joint elongate, subtubiform, the distal margin 

 very obliquely subtruncate. 



B. Pronotum of male with cephalic width contained one and 

 one-half times in the greatest length of the same, somewhat 

 produced caudad; lateral lobes of male pronotum obliquely 

 areuato-emarginate caudad; ovipositor slender, subequal 

 to the caudal femora in length occidental (Scudder). 



BB. Pronotum of male with cephalic width contained very 

 slightly more than once in the greatest length of the same, 

 subquadrate; lateral lobes of male pronotum obliquely 

 subtruncate caudad, not at all areuato-emarginate; 

 ovipositor more robust, shorter than the caudal femora, 



boreale (Scudder). 

 AA. Terminal joint of palpi broader, ovate aztecum (Saussure). 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Hoplosphyrum occidentale (Scudder). 



1868. Mogoplistes oceidentalis Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, 



p. 142. [Cape St. Lucas, Lower California.] 

 1874. Mogoplistes oceidentalis Saussure, Miss. Sci. Mex., Recli. Zool., VI, 



p. 424. [Lower California.] 

 1877. M[ogisoplistus}? oceidentalis Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, p. 469. 



[Lower California.] 

 1896. Mogoplistes oceidentalis Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XXVII, 



p. 215. 

 1902. E[ctatoderus] oceidentalis Scudder, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 59. 



Types: 48 2 9 ; Cape St. Lucas, Lower California. [Scudder 

 Collection.] 



Description of Lectotype here Selected. — Size large for the genus; 

 form elongate fusiform. Head rather small, depth subequal to 

 greatest width, depressed dorsad, moderately protuberant between 

 the antennal bases, without an appreciable vertical sulcus; eyes 

 subpyriform, somewhat prominent laterad when viewed from the 

 cephalic aspect. Maxillary palpi with the distal joint very elongate, 

 slightly longer than the preceding joint, trumpet shaped, the distal 

 margin very obliquely truncate, the length of the truncation con- 

 tained over twice in the next shortest side. Pronotum subdeplanate 

 dorsad, in proportions subquadratc, the lateral lines of the disk 

 weakly subconvergent cephalad; cephalic margin strongly arcuato- 

 emarginate, the head well seated in the same, caudal margin sub- 

 truncate, very faintly and very broadly subemarginate mesad; 

 dorsum passing into the lateral lobes without lateral carina?, but with 

 appreciable angles caudad; lateral lobes with the greatest depth 

 contained about three times in the greatest (dorsal) length of the 

 same, ventral margin of lobes straight, becoming obliquely sub- 

 arc uato-emarginate in the caudal half. Tegmina absent. Abdomen 

 slightly deplanate dorsad, elliptical in outline. Subgenital plate 

 small, subrostrate, very slightly arcuato-emarginate mesad. Ovi- 

 positor equal in length to the abdomen, subequal in length to the 

 caudal femur, of moderate depth, slightly arcuate dorsad in the 

 proximal third, thence straight, apex with very small impressed 

 puncta. Cerci elongate, tapering. Cephalic tibia? with a distinct 

 but small elliptical tympanum on the cephalic face. Median limbs 

 similar in proportions to the cephalic. Caudal femora moderately 



48 Both of the types have lost all of their limbs, and the characters of these 

 partB are supplied from practically topotypic material. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



225 



inflated, the greatest depth con- 

 tained slightly more than two 

 and one-half times in the length 

 of the same. Caudal tibiae 

 compressed, V-shaped in section, 

 the dorsum deplanate, nonsul- 

 cate, the margins elevated and 

 closely serrate, dorso- and ventro- 

 external distal spurs subequal in 

 length, medio-external nearly 

 twice the length of those dorsad 

 and ventrad of it, internal spurs 

 all longer than the external spurs 

 and as in the generic diagnosis; 

 caudal metatarsus armed on 

 the dorso-internal margin with 

 eight to nine spines, on the 

 dorso-external margin with 

 nine to ten spines. 



Allotypic a 71 here selected; 

 San Jose del Cabo, Lower Cali- 

 fornia. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — - 

 Agreeing with the female lecto- 



type except in characters here mentioned. Pronotum of male more 

 produced caudad and more ampliate in the same direction, the 

 cephalic width contained one and one-half times in its greatest 

 length, the greatest caudal width subequal to its length; cephalic 

 margin as in female, caudal margin strongly arcuate laterad, arcuato- 

 truncate mesad; lateral lobes as in the female. Tegmina well 

 developed for this group, projecting caudad of the pronotum a 

 distance which at its greatest is subequal to the greatest length of the 

 pronotum, broad, the width of the dorsal field of a single tegmen 

 subequal to the greatest width of the pronotum; lateral field deep, 

 slightly less than half the width of the dorsal field; distal extremity 

 of dorsal field well arcuate; speculum of tegmina subequal in width 

 to the cephalic margin of the pronotum. Subgenital plate with the 

 distal margin complete. 



Fig. 24. — Hoplosphyrum ocddenlale. 

 Dorsal view of allotype. (X 4.) 




22G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Allotype. Type. 

 San Jose Cape 

 del Cabo, St. Lucas, 

 . L.Cal. L. Cal. 



c? 9 



Length of body 14.3 13.2 



Length of pronotum 49 4.5 4. 



Caudal width of pronotum 4.2 4. 



Length of caudal femur 7.5 , 



( Greatest width of caudal femur 2.9 



Length of ovipositor 7.8 



Average of series. 



<?<? 9 9 



Length of body 12.7 (12. -14.5) 12.8 (11.5-14. ) 



Length of pronotum 49 4.1 ( 4. - 4.5) 3.8 ( 3.5- 4. ) 



Caudal width of pronotum 4.1 ( 4. - 4.5) 3.9 ( 3.5- 4.2) 



Length of caudal femur 7.3 ( 7.2- 7.5) 7.6 ( 6.7- 8.2) 



Greatest width of caudal femur. 2.9 ( 2.9- 3. ) 3.1 ( 2.9- 3.3) 



Length of ovipositor 7.6 ( 7. - 8. ) 



Color Notes. — General shade of females varying from tawny ochra- 

 ceous to vandyke-brown, the abdominal segments frequently darker 

 proximad than is the general coloration. General color of head and 



Fig. 25. — Hoplosphyrum ocddentale. Internal face of caudal metatarsus and 

 internal tibial spurs. (Greatly magnified.) 



pronotum of male varying from cinnamon-rufous to hazel, the pyriform 

 pronotal impressions umber, some incomplete concentric markings on 

 the occiput of the same color. Abdomen of male deep chocolate, 

 the margins of the segments very narrowly lined with whitish; the 

 overlying scales of the abdomen bistre with points of ecru-drab, the 

 latter color predominating in the marginal scales. Eyes very pale 

 drab; palpi seal-brown; antenna? raw umber. Pronotum with the 

 lateral lobes seal-brown. Tegmina of male broccoli-brown clouded 

 with seal-brown, particularly toward the distal margin, veins more or 

 less prominently lined with grayish-white; lateral field of tegmina 



19 Along lateral angle, as in the female the median length is less than the 

 ateral. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



with the base color seal-brown. Cephalic and median limbs seal- 

 brown; caudal limbs burnt umber becoming seal-brown on the 

 tarsi. Ovipositor raw umber. 



All of the specimens before us appear to have been immersed in 

 alcohol at some time, and in consequence the color description is not 



Fig. 27. — Hoplosphyrum occiden- 

 Fig. 26. — Hoplosphyrum oceidentale. Maxil- tale. Apex of ovipositor. 



lary palpus. (Greatly magnified.) (Greatly magnified. J 



as satisfactory as could be desired. In nearly all of the specimens 

 the scales have been almost completely abraded and in but one 

 specimen is there enough left to give an idea of the mass coloration 

 of the scales. 



Distribution. — With all the known material of this species before 

 us, we can only give its distribution as the Cape Region of Lower 

 California. San Jose del Cabo and Cape St. Lucas are the localities. 



Synonymy. — Originally described and for years known only from 

 two typical females, the acquisition of males of the allied boreah 

 enabled Scudder to remove the species from Mogoplistes, in which he 

 had erroneously placed it at the time of the original description. 

 Unfortunately, he placed it in Ectatoderus Guerin, a genus which has 

 no apparent tegmina in the male and an immensely long pronotum 

 in the same sex. In consequence we have been compelled to erect 

 the genus Hoplosphyrum to receive the three forms here placed in it. 



Specimens Examined. — 9; 3 males and 6 females. 



Cape St. Lucas, Lower California; 29. (Types) [Scudder Col- 

 lection.] 



San Jose del Cabo, Lower California; 3 d\ -A 9 . [Hebard Col- 

 lection.] 



Hoplosphyrum boreale (Scudder;. 



1902. Ectatoderus borealis Scudder, Proc. Davenp. Acad. Sci., IX, p. 58, 



pi. IV, fig. i. b<1 [La Cueva and Dripping .Springs, Organ Mts., New 



Mexico; Julian, San Diego County, California.] 

 1905. Edatoderus borealis Baker, Invertebr. Pacif., I, p. 79. [Claremont, 



California.] 

 1909. Ectatoderus borealis Helm and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1909, p. 172. [Between Alamogordo and Dry Canon, Otero County, 



New Mexico; Florida Mts., New Mexico.] 



This species differs from H. oceidentale in having the cephalic 




228 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



I 



width of the male pronotum contained only slightly more than once 



in the greatest length of the same, 

 and in consequence the pronotal disk 

 is more quadrate; the lateral lobes 

 / \^S-^%^y \ "' ''"' ma ' ( ' pronotum are obliquely 



subtruncate, but not at all emarginate, 

 and the ovipositor is more robust and 

 is shorter than the caudal femora. 



Types : 1 tf , 1 9 ; La Cueva, N. M. : 

 1 d" ; Julian, Cal. [All Scudder Col- 

 lection.]' 



Lectotype here selected: d" ; 

 La Cueva, Organ Mountains, New 

 Mexico, September 4. (C. H. T. 

 Townsend.) [Scudder Collection.] 50 



Descri p t i o n of Lectotype. — This 

 specimen differs from the allotypic 

 male of occidentale in the characters 

 here given. Size smaller, head sub- 

 compressed, the depth considerably 

 greater than the greatest width (across 

 eyes); eyes less protuberant, hardly 

 projecting beyond the general line of the head. Pronotum with the 

 cephalic width contained slightly more than once in the length of 

 the dorsum, lateral margins moderately expanding caudad, caudal 

 margin of the disk less rounded laterad than in occidentale and in conse- 

 quence the caudal margin is straighter ; lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 deeper than in occidentale, ventro-caudal margin without any arcuate- 

 emargination, more decidedly oblique truncate. Tegmina, on ac- 

 count of the reduced pronotum, appearing to be longer and more 

 ample than in occidentale, in general form and proportions, however, 

 being very similar; the greatest width of a single tegmen is slightly 

 less than the caudal width of the pronotum; speculum of tegmina 

 distinctly wider than the cephalic width of the pronotum and sub- 

 equal to the median length of the same. Caudal femora less inflated 

 than in occidentale; caudal metatarsus armed dorsad with eight 

 internal and ten external spines. 



Fig. 28. — Hoplosphyrum borcale. 

 Dorsal view of lectotype. 



(XI) 



The originally figured specimen is the female from Dripping Springs {vide 

 infra), the condition of the individual fully agreeing with the figure. As this 

 specimen was subsequently received by Scudder and is not one of the listed 

 type scries, it cannot be regarded as the lectotvpe. 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



Allotypic 9 here selected. Data the same as the type, except 

 date which is September 5. 



Description of Allotype. — Closely resembling the same sex of 

 occidentale, differing only in the characters here indicated. Size 

 smaller. Head with the proportions of the same and prominence 

 of eyes as in male sex. Pronotum subquadrate, the greatest caudal 

 width slightly greater than the length of the same; margins as in 

 occidentale; lateral lobes as in the male. Ovipositor more robust 

 and shorter than caudal femur. Caudal limbs somewhat less robust. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Type. Allotype. 

 La Cueva, 

 N. M. 



& 



Length of body 12.7 



Length of pronotum 3. 



Caudal width of pronotum . 3.2 



Length of tegmen 4.5 



Length of caudal femur 7. 



Greatest width of caudal 



femur 2.5 



Length of ovipositor 



9 



13. 

 3. 

 3.4 



7.1 



2.4 

 6.5 



Julian, 

 Cal. 



cT 

 10.5 

 2.9 

 3.1 

 4.1 

 0. 



La 

 San Jose Chee- 

 del Cabo, parosa, 

 L. Cal. L. Cal. 



8.6 

 2.4 



2.7 

 3.2 



Length of body 



Length of pronotum 



Caudal width of pronotum 



Length of tegmen. 



Length of caudal femur 



Greatest width of caudal femur 

 Length of ovipositor 



Los 



Angeles 



Co., Cal. 



9 

 ... 9.5 

 .... 2.4 



.... 2.8 



5.1 

 2. 



4.8 



12 ~ 



E 



d 



3.3 

 3.4 

 4. 



6. 



2.2 



Florida 

 Mts., 



N.M. 



9 



12. 

 2.9 

 3.2 



7. 



2.4 



6.2 



Los Angeles and Los Angeles Co., Cal. 

 Average of series. 



Length of body 9.3 (8.5-10. ) 



Length of pronotum 2.4 (2.3- 2.6) 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.8 (2.6- 3. ) 



Length of tegmen 3.2 (2.9- 3.8) 



Length of caudal femur 5.3 (5.2- 5.5) 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2. (2. ) 



Length of ovipositor 



9 9 



10.2 (9.5-11. ) 



2.5 (2.3- 2.8) 



2.9 (2.8- 3.1) 



5.6"(5'!i- 6.3) 



2. (1.9- 2.2) 

 5.1 (4.6- 5.5) 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Color Notes. — General tone of more or less abraded specimens 

 varying from cinnamon to ochraceous, the abdomen generally seal- 

 brown, but in a few specimens 51 the abdominal coloration is no 

 darker than the general tone. Eyes varying from broccoli to clove- 

 brown ; palpi varying in similar fashion. Lateral lobes of the pro- 

 notum wholly seal-brown, the dorsal line of the color mass more 

 sharply defined in some than in other specimens. Abdominal 

 segments in the majority of specimens narrowly margined with 

 whitish; ovipositor ferruginous; cerci buffy, darkening distad. 

 Limbs buffy, 52 but as the overlying scales are more generally present 

 on the limbs than on the rest of the body and in color are raw umber, 

 the general shade is dark, with, however, a more or less distinct paler 

 pregenicular annulus; caudal tibiae with the scales colored in such a 

 fashion that there is a broad median pale annulus and another 

 extremely narrow one immediately distad of the genicular extremity, 

 the remainder of the tibial scales being seal-brown. In the specimens 

 sufficiently abraded on the dorsum to enable one to ascertain the 

 color of the scales, it is seen that pale buff-gray is the covering color, 

 while in some specimens regularly placed patches of umber scales 

 are found on the margins of the abdominal segments. 



Distribution. — From Southern New Mexico (Alamogordo and 

 Organ Mountains) west to Southern California, north as far as the 

 southern slopes of the Sierra Madre (Claremont), thence south to 

 the Cape region of Lower California. Nothing whatever is known 

 of the distribution of the species in northern Mexico, and we have 

 no record of its occurrence in Arizona. The highest elevation (of 

 which we have record) at which the species has been taken is Drip- 

 ping Springs, N. M., at an altitude of 5,800 feet above sea level. 



Biological Notes. — The only knowledge concerning the habits of this 

 species is the fact that the Alamogordo specimen was taken by the 

 authors from a dead yucca. 



Remarks. — The present species is one which varies much in size, 

 New Mexican individuals surpassing all others in this respect except 

 Sierra Laguna, Lower California, specimens. Such variation is not 



51 These specimens have not had their coloration lightened by alcoholic 

 immersion. A number of other individuals which have at some time been 

 immersed in alcohol are equally pale on the abdomen, but we have not considered 

 such specimens in drawing up the above notes. 



62 In specimens which have been in alcohol the cephalic and median limbs are 

 much darker, seal-brown in fact, but this does not seem to be the natural colora- 

 tion. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



correlated with definite regions, as San Jose del Cabo representatives 

 are as small as any seen, while the Los Angeles County, California, 

 specimens are all of very small size. The Lower California indi- 

 viduals vary considerably from the typical New Mexican phase, 

 approaching occidentale in the shape of the head; some specimens 

 having the proportions of the latter as in occidentale, but in such 

 cases the proportion of the pronotum in the male, the rather slenderer 

 caudal femora in both sexes, and the distinctly shorter and more 

 robust ovipositor in the female will serve to associate properly the 

 individuals. The number of spines on the dorsal margins of the 

 caudal metatarsi varies considerably, the external margin having 

 from six to nine and the internal seven to twelve distinctly indicated. 

 The number of these spines is in no way correlated with the locality. 

 The tympanum is clearly indicated on the cephalic face of the caudal 

 tibiae in all the adults examined, although varying considerably in 

 size and exact shape, but it is not present in nymphal specimens. 

 The cerci vary in length in this species much as in Cryptoptilum 

 antiUantm. The subgenital plate in the male is weakly subtruncate 

 in several individuals, but its normal form is similar to that of 

 occidentale. 



Specimens Examined. — 40; 13 males, 23 females and 4 nymphs. 



Dripping Springs, Organ Mts., N. M.; Sept., 1899; (Cockerell); 

 1 — . [U. S. N. M.]: (Cockerell); 1 d\ 1 9. [Scudder Collection.] 



La Cueva, Organ Mts., N. M.; Sept. 4, 5; (C. H. T. Townsend); 

 1 d\ 1 9 . (Types) [Scudder Collection.] 



Alamogordo to Dry Canon, N. M.; July 13, 1907; (R. and H.); 

 1 9 n. [Hebard Collection.] 



Florida Mts., N. M.; (Pilsbrv); 2 9 . [A. N. S. P.] 

 California; 19. [U. S. N. M.] 



Los Angeles County, Cal.; (Coquillett) ; 2 d\ 4 9 . [U. S. N. M.] 

 Los Angeles, Cal.; (Coquillett); 1^,29. [U. S. N. M.]: 1 <? . 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Claremont, Cal.; (C. F. Baker); 1 d\ [A. N. S. P.] 

 Julian, San Diego Co., Cal.; July; 1 d\ (Type) [Scudder Collec- 

 tion.] 



Lower California; 1 cf , 3 9. [Hebard Collection.] 



Sierra Laguna, L. Cal.; (Eisen); 1 cf, 3 9 . [ibid.] 



La Joya, Sierra Laguna, L. Cal. ; (Eisen); 1 9 n. [ibid.] 



La Cheeparosa, L. Cal.; 1 d", 1 9 n. [ibid.] 



San Lazaro", L. Cal.; Sept., 1894; 1 9. [ibid.] 



Sierra el Toste, L. Cal.; Sept. 23; (Eisen); 1 d\ [ibid.] 



San Jose" del Cabo, L. Cal.; 1 cf , 5 9 , 1 9 n. [ibid.] 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julie, 



Hoplosphyrmm aztecum (Saussure). 



1897. Ectatoderus aztecus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 230, 

 pi. XI, figs. 35, 36. [Chilpancingo, Guerrero, Mexico, 4,000 feet.] 



1905. Ectatoderus aztecus Baker, Invertebr. Pacif., I, p. 79. [Acapulco, 

 Guerrero, Mexico.] 



As far- as can be determined from the description, this species can 

 be readily separated from the other species of this genus, to which it 

 undoubtedly belongs, by the ovate terminal palpal joint. 



Type: d 71 ; Chilpancingo, Guerrero, Mexico, elevation 4,600 feet. 

 (H. H. Smith.) [Biologia Collection in British Museum.] 



Description of Type.—" Somewhat thickened, fuscous. Head 

 suborbicular, lightly convex, a fulvous obsolete transverse facial 

 line and an irregular fulvous line on each side above the eyes. Anten- 

 nae fuscous, bases paler. Eyes broadly elliptical or subovoid, hardly 

 attenuate above, internal margin above very subtlely incised. 

 Terminal palpal joint a little broader, ovate. Pronotum as long as 

 wide, deplanate, anteriorly not strongly coarctate; anterior margin 

 sinuate, posterior transverse, scarcely arcuate; upper part seen from 

 above castaneous, broadly flavo-fulvous on the margins of both sides, 

 lateral lobes black. Disk marked above on both sides with two 

 crassate black puncta and on each side between these an intercalate 

 pyriform depression, showing exteriorly acute elevated margins. 

 Elytra parallel on dorsum, leaving the apex of the abdomen exposed, 

 shaded with dull testaceous and fuscous lines, posterior margin 

 arcuate; regularly vittate with fuscous at the margin. Speculum 

 much broader than long, with elevated lines, the anterior angle 

 right- or obtuse-angulate; anal rami three. Lateral field very 

 wide, luteous, with two to three longitudinal fuscous lines, the second 

 the widest; inferior margin angulate before the middle. Feet 

 compressed; anterior and intermediate fuscous, coxae, knees and 

 tarsal articulations testaceous; metatarsi moderately long. Pos- 

 terior femora heavy, fusco-testaceous, apically fuscous. Posterior 

 tibiae moderately broad, fusco-rufescent, apically more fuscous, 

 above broadly canaliculate, the margins heavily denticulate. Internal 

 intermediate spur fairly elongate; upper minute. Tarsi fuscous; 

 posterior metatarsus elongate, above armed with many teeth. 

 Abdomen brownish-black, beneath fusco-testaceous. Cerci rather 

 long, rufous, bases thickened. Last dorsal segment narrow, testa- 

 ceous. Supra-anal plate elongate-trigonal, apex rounded. Sub- 

 genital plate transverse, margin subarcuate, black. 



"d\ Length of body 6.8; pronotum 2.2, width 3; elytra beyond 

 pronotum 2.7, width 3.2; posterior femur 4.8 millimeters." 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Remarks. — No specimens of this species are available for study. 

 We have included the species to make our study of the genus com- 

 plete for the forms found north of Panama. 



Genus LIPHOPLUS Saussure. 

 1877. Liphoplus Saussure, Melang. Orth., II, pp. 456, 483. 



Genotype (selected by Kirby) : Liphoplus novarce Saussure. 



We do not feel positive that the following species is really a member 

 of the genus Liphoplus, which elsewhere is found only in the Poly- 

 nesian, Indian and Malagasian regions. However, as the original 

 description specifically agrees with most of the generic characters 

 which Saussure gave as diagnostic of his genus, we have no alternative, 

 in the absence of material, but to retain it in Liphoplus. No mention 

 is made of the absence of a tympanum on the cephalic face of the 

 cephalic tibiae, which absence is considered an important generic 

 character in the original description of the genus, but this omission 

 is rather discounted by the figure which shows no tympanum, thus 

 agreeing with true Liphoplus. The interantennal protuberance is 

 described and figured as distinctly divided. 



Generic Description. — "Body pubescent, the females apterous, the 

 males supplied with tegmina. Head as in Arachnocephalus, showing 

 a protuberance divided by a sulcus. 



"Pronotum in the males produced posteriorly over the metanotum, 

 as in Ectatoderus, the caudal margin arcuate; less produced in the 

 females. Anterior tibiae having the internal faces supplied with a 

 small tambourine. Tegmina of males short, membranous, supplied 

 with a complete tambourine, but sometimes more or less obsolete. 



"This genus is to us but imperfectly known. The body is very 

 pubescent, but we presume that it should be likewise more or 

 less scaled in fresh and well-preserved individuals. The elytra of 

 the males show in their tambourines certain analogies to those of the 

 Phalangopsini, the first vein being angulate. 



"Liphoplus differs from Arachnocephalus in the anterior tibiae being 

 furnished with a tambourine, and in their winged males; from 

 Ectatoderus in their facial protuberance being distinctly divided." 



Distribution in North America. — State of Guerrero, Mexico. 



Liphoplus mexicanus Saussure. 



1897. Liphoplus mexicanus Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 231, pi. 

 XI, fig.*37. [Amula, Guerrero, Mexico.] 



Type: c?; Amula, Guerrero, Mexico, elevation 6,000 feet. 

 (H. H. Smith.) [Biologia Collection in British Museum.] 



Description of Type. — "Rufo-testaceous, depressed. Antennae of 

 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



the same color. Head and pronotum covered with grayish scales. 

 Facial scutellum much swollen, divided by a sulcus. Pronotum 

 large, depressed, much narrowed anteriorly, much dilated poste- 

 riorly, posterior margin transversely arcuate. Elytra surpassing the 

 pronotum very much, leaving the last two abdominal segments 

 exposed, broader than pronotum, testaceous, flat; lateral field deflexed ; 

 narrow, reflexed interiorly, divided by a thick, luteous longitudinal 

 vein, marginal half (base and extremity excepted) blackish; dorsal 

 field very broad, posterior margin broadly rounded, margins reddish; 

 speculum very large, subtrigonal, posterior margin arcuate, anterior 

 angle hidden under pronotum, entire disk irregularly folded like a 

 fan and divided by a rectangular vein. Feet reddish, covered with 

 whitish scales; femora heavy. Posterior tibiae mildly arcuate, above 

 flat, acutely rounded, thickly armed with minute teeth. Internal 

 spurs: intermediate equal to one-third of the metatarsus; upper 

 short, shorter than lower, equalling or exceeding half the length of 

 the intermediate. External spurs very small: upper little longer 

 than lower, removed from the intermediate spur. Metatarsus 

 posteriorly compressed, having two series of denticulations above. 

 All of the tarsi black at apex. Apical portion of abdomen attenuate 

 black. Supra-anal plate minute, transverse, deflexed, divided by a 

 sulcus. Subgenital plate elongate, covered with hairs, the apex 

 forming two denticulations. Cerci long, reddish. 



"o*. Length of body 9; pronotum 3.7, width 3; tegmina beyond 

 pronotum 2.9, width 3.8; caudal femora 5 millimeters." 



Remarks. — No specimens of this species are available for study. 

 We have included the genus and species to make our study of the 

 group complete for the forms found north of Panama. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



ON THE ORTHOPTERA FOUND ON THE FLORIDA KEYS AND IN EXTREME 



SOUTHERN FLORIDA. I. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



It has been the desire of the authors for some time to determine 

 what species of Orthoptera were to be found throughout the winter 

 in the subtropical area of southern Florida. With this end in view, 

 the junior author visited the region in the latter part of March, 1910, 

 as it seemed evident that this would be the time when species would 

 have entirely disappeared, should they succumb to the colder weather 

 in this region, while spring forms would, as a rule, not have reached 

 maturity. The facts obtained would indicate that a considerable 

 proportion of the species of this region are in evidence throughout 

 the winter, though probably in considerably reduced numbers. 

 The amount of this reduction cannot be stated at present, as insuf- 

 ficient work has been done in this region during the summer. The 

 families Mantidae and Tettigoniidse, however, alone seem to be 

 severely affected by the cold, and the few specimens taken which 

 belonged to these families were either most battered remnants of 

 the past summer or the first freshly emerged individuals of the 

 spring brood. Nymphs of a number of interesting species were far 

 more abundant than adults of the same, while nymphs of several 

 species plainly unknown to the United States were taken, unfor- 

 tunately in such an early stage of development as to make determina- 

 tion impossible. It is the intention of the authors to do considerable 

 work in southern Florida during the summer of the present year, 

 and not only is it hoped that adults of these very interesting species 

 may be secured, but also that the publication of the results, when 

 compared with those given in the present paper, will indicate the 

 difference between the abundance of forms in the summer and 

 winter throughout the region. 



The following table will indicate the comparative abundance of 

 forms as found just before the appearance of the spring forms. 



Number Very Small 



of abun- Abun- num- Very Nymphs 



Family. species, dant. dant. bers. Rare. rare. only. 



Forficulidae 5 13 1 



Blattidae 9 12 13 2 



Mantidae 2 2 



Phasmidae 3 1 11 



Acrididae 23 1 11 6 1 1 3 



Tettigoniidse. 5 — 113 — 



Gryllidae 18 2 4 5 1 5 1 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The number of specimens taken on the trip of March, 1910, is 

 thirteen hundred and fifteen, and includes sixty-one species. The 

 authors have also examined and here recorded material from this 

 region which was collected for the Brooklyn Museum of Arts and 

 Sciences during the latter part of November, 1911. All of the 

 material in the United States National Museum from southern 

 Florida has been placed at the disposal of the authors through the 

 kindness of Mr. A. N. Caudell, and the specimens which had not 

 been previously considered are recorded in the present paper. Mis- 

 cellaneous material in the Hebard Collection and the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia from this region, and the collections 

 made by the junior author in January and February, 1903 and 1904, 

 in southern Florida, have also been examined and treated in the 

 present paper, when such action has been thought advisable. All 

 of the material considered in the present paper is in the Hebard 

 Collection and that of the Academy of Natural Sciences of- Phil- 

 adelphia, with the exception of these specimens which have B. I. 

 (Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences), or U. S. N. M. (United 

 States National Museum) in brackets after the records. We wish 

 to extend our thanks to Mr. W. S. Blatchley for the loan of the types 

 of his Eritettix sylvestrus, which enabled us to solve definitely 

 the problem involved. The total number of specimens treated in 

 the present paper is fourteen hundred and eighty-six, which includes 

 sixty-three species; of these one new species and two new geographic 

 races are described, while one circumtropical species is recorded from 



the United States for the first time. 



* 



FORFICULIDJE 



Anisolabis annulipes (H. Lucas). 



Long Key, Fla., March 17, 1910; 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 5 & , 12 9 . 



In the series before us we find the femoral annuli lacking in two 

 specimens and weakly indicated in a number of others. The speci- 

 mens from Key West were taken from under boards in a vacant 

 field, from under coquina boulders on coquina sand on the beach 

 and also under coquina boulders on fine sand a little back from the 

 beach. Along the beach this form was much the less plentiful of 

 the two species of the genus there found. 



Anisolabis maritima (Gene). 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 4 d% 11 9 . 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 24 <? , 24 9 : November 21, 

 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 9 [B. I.]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



The specimens from Long Key were all found on the wet ground 

 under heads of prostrate cocoanut palms which had been saturated 

 with salt water and were thoroughly decayed. These specimens 

 when captured possessed an exceedingly disagreeable odor suggestive 

 of decomposition. One specimen at Key West was taken from under 

 boards in a vacant field where most of the specimens of Anisolabis 

 annulipes were found, but the others of the series were all taken 

 from under coquina boulders scattered along the beach just above 

 the usual high-water mark. It is among these boulders about half 

 way up the beach that the beach plant, Borrichia fontescens, grows 

 abundantly. In this situation Anisolabis maritima was exceedingly 

 plentiful, and when disturbed individuals of a colony were seen to 

 run about with abdomen curved upward and forceps wide open, 

 ready to administer a vigorous pinch. 



Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 13 <? , 9 9 , 1 9 n: November 

 21, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 & [B. I.]. 



We use Olivier's name in conformity with our previous papers, 

 although we are by no means convinced of the specific distinction of 

 Floridian and West Indian specimens from true Labidura riparia. 

 Burr 1 has tentatively allowed bidens to have a place in his " forms" 

 of the riparia group. This species was found in the same beach 

 environment as the last, usually in twos and threes, and individuals 

 were exceedingly repulsive owing to the fact that they emitted an 

 odor suggesting carrion, but even more nauseating. This odor 

 seemed not to originate from an ejected secretion, but from the oily 

 surface of the body. The great forceps of this species are exceedingly 

 weak compared with those of Anisolabis maritima, although indi- 

 viduals made themselves appear very formidable when molested. 

 Labia curvicauda (Motsch). 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 50 a", 78 9,4 n. 



This species, which has never before been recorded from the 

 United States, was found in numbers in the dying tops of cocoanut 

 palms at the white base of the fronds where these were moist. None 

 were ever found at the dry bases of the dead fronds, but when these 

 were torn off, the living, hard, white base of each underlying frond, 

 already dead and dry except at that point, would usually expose 

 several specimens. Sometimes several adults would be exposed, 

 sometimes a small colony of very young insects, and once a female 



1 Genera Insectorum, Derm., p. 37. 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



guarding a tiny heap of eggs which she immediately started to re- 

 move, carrying two or three eggs at a time to a spot an inch away. 

 These earwigs were often found near nests of a small stocky red ant, 

 which species did not seem to interfere with them at all. It was 

 possible to obtain so large a series owing to the fact that the 

 hurricane of the previous summer had blown down quantities of 

 cocoanut palms; these prostrate or half-prostrate trees were exam- 

 ined and about half were found to contain specimens of this earwig. 

 In the large series before us we find the length of the females to be 

 from 4 to 5 mm., and that of the males from 4 to 5.5 mm.; a few 

 other specimens would exceed this maximum, but are found to be 

 squeezed to an unnatural length. The great majority of adults in 

 the series are very near 4.5 mm. in length. Among the specimens 

 taken are two females which had but recently reached maturity and 

 are colored uniformly pale, wood-brown. This species is found 

 around the world in tropical latitudes; it was described from the 

 Nura Ellia Mountains of Ceylon. 



Prolabia unidentata (Beauv.). 2 



Labia burgessi Sc. 

 Labia guttata Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 7 d\ 7 9,2 9 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 3 cf , 6 9,1 9 n. 



One male specimen from Miami has the usual median tooth on the 

 internal margin of the forceps lacking, while the other individuals 

 of that sex show this tooth varying from a very blunt to a strongly 

 marked protuberance. We have followed Burr in using this specific 

 name for the wingless form generally called burgessi Scudder. All 

 of the present series lack wings. The specimens were all taken from 

 under the bark of dead pine logs in the pine woods. 



BLATTIDiE. 

 Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner). 



Homestead, Fla., March 17 19, 1910; 2 d% 1 9 , 1 & n, 2 9 n. 



Both of the adult males have the tegmina 15 mm. in length, this 

 being slightly smaller than the measurements previously given by 

 the authors as the minimum for the species. The adult female, 

 on the other hand, is slightly above the average size. In all the 

 specimens the femora and tibiae are similarly colored. This species, 

 previously recorded as far south as Miami, Fla., was found under 



- Burr, Proc. U. S. X. M., Vol. XXX VIII, pp. 451, 452, 1911. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



rubbish about a small cultivated "pot-hole" in the pine woods, 

 excepting the adult female, which was taken from under a board 

 far out on the everglades. This species is distinctly geophilous and 

 appears to prefer damp surroundings. 



Neoblattella adspersicollis (St&l). 



Homestead, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 cf. 



The only previous record of this species in the United States is the 

 authors' report of its occurrence at Miami, Fla. 4 The specimen taken 

 at Homestead was captured two miles westward in the pine forest. 

 All of the specimens secured at Miami were taken in the town, and 

 it was therefore a question whether the species was not recently 

 introduced. The capture of the present specimen, well out in the 

 untouched forest, would indicate that the species is indigenous to 

 this region. There are four specimens of this species in the National 

 Museum from Dade County, Florida. 



Ceratinoptera diaphana (Fabr.). 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 2 n. 



This striking species, easily recognized in the immature condition, 

 has been recorded from Key West by the authors. 5 These are the 

 only records of the species occurring within the United States. The 

 specimens at present under consideration were taken from under the 

 loose dry fibres near the head of a standing cocoanut palm. The 

 specimen from Key West, an adult female, was taken from under a 

 coquina boulder in heavy scrub. 



Ceratinoptera lutea S. and Z. 



Miami, Fla., March 20, 28, 1910; 1 <? , 4 n. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 &. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 9 . 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 4^,3 9 , 4 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 1 d\ 4 9 , 1 n. 



All the adult specimens from the above localities have the tegmina 

 failing to reach the apex of the abdomen by a considerable interval. 

 Specimens from Georgia and North Carolina agree more fully with 

 the original description in having the tegmina as long as the abdomen. 

 The series from Long Key was captured by looking under dead 

 petioles of the cocoanut palm lying on moist ground along the edges 

 of pools of brackish water, while the specimens from Key West were 



3 Vide Shelford, Entom. Monthly Mag., (2) Vol. XXII, p. 155. 



4 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 32. 



5 Entomological News, Vol. XXI, p. 103, 1910. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [June, 



Taken in dead dry grasses under boards in a vacant field on the edge 

 of the city. 



Phoetalia laevigata (Beauv.). 



Key Largo, Fla., March, 1898, 1 9 . 6 



This specimen, taken by C. L. Pollard, is in the U. S. N. M. Col- 

 lection. 



Eurycotis floridana (Walker). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 cf : November 15, 1911 (Engle- 

 hardt); 1 d" [B. I.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 4 n. 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 9 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 3c?,7 9 , 11 n. 



Of the above adult specimens but one, a female, possesses decided 

 light lateral borders on the pronotum, tegmina, and metanotum; 7 

 five others, however, representing both sexes, have more or less 

 distinct indications of the same. These bars are not at all indicated 

 in three of the five most immature individuals, but are very decided 

 in the nymphs in the several stages immediately preceding maturity. 

 The youngest specimens vary from uniform very dark seal-brown 

 to the same color passing into maroon on the median portion of the 

 thoracic segments, one of the latter coloration having fairly distinct 

 lateral bars on a portion of the pronotum. One of the youngest 

 Long Key nymphs is much paler than any of the others, being dark 

 ferruginous with weakly indicated lateral bars. The antennae of 

 these quite juvenile individuals are ochraceous, slightly darker in 

 some than in others. Apparently with the assumption of the pale 

 lateral bars the head becomes paler, ferruginous in fact, and the 

 antennae are darkened. As growth progresses the head becomes 

 burnt sienna, more or less clouded with seal-brown as found in the 

 adult. 



The specimens taken from the Florida mainland were all found in 

 the pine woods under the dry bark of dead pine logs. On Long Key 

 the series was taken from the dry fibres at the base of the heads of 

 cocoanut palms; two adults seen escaped. 



At Key West a large colony was discovered among boards lying 

 on dry grass in a field, and several were captured upon turning over 

 coquina boulders in the dense bush. When trying excitedly to 



6 See Ent. News, Vol. XXI, p. 103, 1910. 



7 For the synonomy of Platyzosteria sabalianus Scudder, Plaiyzosteria ingens 

 Scudder, and Periplaneta scmipirta Walker, see Rehn, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, 

 Vol. XXIX, p. 277, 1903. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



escape these insects emit from their anal extremities spurts of a white, 

 acrid fluid which has a very pungent, stifling odor. They are called 

 "Spanish roaches" by the natives of this region. 8 



There are three females and one nymph from Cape Sable, Fla., 

 and one male from Sugar Loaf Key, Fla., taken in March, 1898, by 

 0. F. Cook, in the National Museum. 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linn.). 



Haulover, Fla., March; 1 adult [U. S. N. MJ. 

 Miami, Fla., March 20, 1910; 3 cf, 4 n: November 16, 1911 

 (Englehardt); 1 9 [B. I.]. 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 5 n. 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 1 9 , 7 n. 



This species is common under planks, stones, and other debris on 

 the ground throughout this region. Two specimens were also found 

 at Long Key in the dry fibres at the base of the petioles of a cocoanut 

 palm. 



Blaberus atropos (Stoll). 



Key West, Fla.; 1 cT. 9 



This specimen is in the collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. The collection of the National Museum also contains a 

 male specimen of this'species taken at Key West, Fla., December 28, 

 1909, by Harris. 



Plectoptera poeyi (Sauss.). 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 9 , 1 n. 



The eight specimens collected at this locality on January 19, 1904, 10 

 were taken with ease in a short space of time by beating Ilex cassine, 

 but on this last visit, though triple the number of these bushes were 

 beaten vigorously, but one adult specimen of this roach was taken. 

 Key West is the only definite locality in the United States from which 

 this Cuban species has been recorded. 



Chorisoneura plocea Rehn. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 9 , 1 c? n. 

 The adult specimen measures as follows: 



8 For further notes on this species from Southern Florida see the present 

 authors (these Proceedings, 1905, p. 32). 



9 "The specimen was unintentionally recorded by the senior author in the 

 Entomological News, Vol. XIX, p. 441, 190S, and by the authors erroneously 

 as Blaberus cubensis Saussure in the Entomological News, Vol. XXI, p. 103, 1910. 

 10 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 33. 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Length of body 8.2 mm. 



Length of pronotum 2. 



Greatest width of pronotum 3. 



Length of tegmen 7.5 



Greatest width of tegmen 2.9 



When compared with the Marietta, Ga., female recorded by the 

 authors, 11 the Key Largo individuals are paler, more ochraceous, 

 with the brown pronotal maculations reduced to a minimum, in 

 this respect similar to the type. 



The almost impenetrable jungle on Key Largo was examined, and 

 in its depths the two specimens of this species were secured by 

 beating the lower branches of gumbo limbo, other trees and the lower 

 bushes and shrubs, among which latter are to be found such semi- 

 tropical forms as Ocotea catesbyana and Citharexylum villosum. 



MANTID^]. 

 Stagmomantis Carolina (Johansson). 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 n. 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 1 n. 



The specimen from Key West was beaten from the shrub Ilex 

 cassine. 



Gonatista grisea (Fabr.). 



Dade City, Fla., September 14, 1907 (W. D. Furnley); 1 2 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 4 n.: April 1 (Schwarz); 



1 & [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Capron, Fla., April; 1 9 n. [U. S. N. M.]. 



These individuals from Key West are in a similar condition to 

 those previously recorded by the authors from the same island. 

 Two stages of development are represented in the four specimens. 

 The specimens were taken in the same situation where they were 

 previously found, 12 on the trunks of gumbo limbo trees. 



The collection of the Academy contains an adult male from Tarpon 

 Springs, Fla., taken November, 1909, by P. Cheyney, and an adult 

 female from Texas without further data. 



PHASMIDJE. 

 Manomera tenuescens (So.). 



Miami. Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 9, 11 n. 



This series was taken by beating the clumps of wire grass and low 



u These Proceedings, 1911, p. 586. 

 12 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 33. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



bushes growing on the very edge of the everglades. Five stages 

 of development are represented among the eleven immature indi- 

 viduals. The adult female had just reached the mature stage and 

 when captured was still in a soft condition. Considerable search 

 failed to reveal more adults, and the indications are that in this 

 region the last of March is the very earliest time for adults to appear. 

 Aplopus mayeri Caudell. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 n. 



The specimen was beaten from a dense tangle of wild grape vines 

 and other shrubbery growing in the heart of the jungle on Key Largo. 

 So dense was the overhead vegetation in this situation that a condi- 

 tion of twilight existed throughout the day. While the specimen is 

 quite immature, being but seventeen millimeters in length, it possesses 

 sufficient in the way of characters to enable us to determine the 

 species when compared with an adult par at y pic pair from the type 

 locality, Loggerhead Key. Florida. This record brings the range 

 of this species close to the mainland of Florida, the only known 

 locality other than the two mentioned above being Key West 

 (Caudell). 



Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stolb. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 4 n. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 19,1 nearly adult and 2 quite 

 immature specimens. 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 5 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 7 c?,3 9 , 2 nearly adult and 

 2 quite immature specimens. 



The youngest specimens in this series show that the longitudinal 

 blackish lines of the adult are rarely present as pronounced con- 

 tinuous markings in the earlier stages of immaturity, in a few 

 cases they are completely but weakly indicated and in most 

 of the specimens are represented by more or less discontinued 

 lineations on the head and thoracic segments. When the in- 

 dividuals are more than half the size of the adults, the lateral 

 blackish lines are weakly indicated and the median one is propor- 

 tionately narrower than in the adults and on the head, thorax, and 

 portion of the abdomen divided by a hair-line of ochraceous. The 

 adult specimens of both sexes are strongly patterned with black, the 

 width of the median bar varying appreciably. The coloration of 

 the adults is Vandyke brown shading into russet, while that of the 

 nymphs in the last stages of immaturity is wood-brown shading into 

 bistre. It would be easy to mistake the nymphs in the last stage 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



of immaturity for specimens of a smaller, lighter, and more uniformly 

 colored species of the genus. 



The series here recorded was taken in a great variety of situations. 

 Many were on the underside of coquina boulders, some between 

 boards piled in a field and some under the bark of a dead pine log. 



ACRIDIDiE. 

 Apotettix rugosus (Sc.). 



.Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 6 <? . 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 5 d 1 , 2 9 . 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 &. 



Considerable variation in the shape of the tegmina exists in this 

 scries, some individuals having the form distinctly oval, others have 

 the ventro-distal margin more or less distinctly oblique-arcuate. 

 These tettigids were taken at Miami and Homestead in small moist 

 spots in the pine woods covered with very low swamp vegetation; 

 at the latter place £hey were also taken in a marshy arm of the 

 everglades. The specimen taken at Key West was beaten from 

 Ilex cassine in a "powder-dry" field. 



Neotettix variabilis Hancock. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 9. 



Cocoanut Grove, Fla., 1887; 1 9 (Type) [U. S. N. M.]. 



This species is very close to N. femoratus (Sc), agreeing in general 

 form, character of dorsum of abdomen, and shape of the frontal costa; 

 differing only in the smaller size, distinctly smaller tegmina, and 

 regular dorsal carina of the caudal femora. More material may 

 show this to be a geographic race of N. femoratus. The specimen 

 from Miami was taken in a low spot in the pine woods near the 

 south bank of the Miami River. 



The type differs from the specimen from Miami in being more 

 scabrous on the dorsum of the pronotum, much like specimens of 

 N. coarclatus, but fully agreeing in the essentials, i.e., the form of the 

 facial forks and the short, apically rounded tegmina. The regularity 

 of the dorsal carina of the caudal femora is not as marked in the 

 type as in our specimen. 



Keotettix coarctatus Hancock. 



Apotettix minutus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 34. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 33 cT, 33 9 , 15 n: November 

 16, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 <?, 1 9 [B. I.]. 



Cocoanut Grove, Fla., 1888; 1 9 (Type) [U. S. N. M.]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



Dade County, Fla. (Hubbard and Schwarz); 1 913 (Type) 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 19 <?, 23 9 , 4 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 9 n. 



Punta Gorda, Fla., November 12-14, 1911 (Davis); 2 d\ 1 n. 

 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Our specimens of this species agree perfectly with the types. This 

 form is very close to N. bolteri Hancock, being probably a southern 

 geographic race of the same, differing in the somewhat less robust 

 form with the median carina of the pronotum less regularly arcuate 

 and subdepressed between the humeral angles. The species occurs 

 in one form with the pronotum elongate and another with the apex 

 of the same not surpassing the tips of the caudal femora. The 

 former of these is represented by ten males and five females from 

 Homestead and four males and two females from Miami. In general 

 appearance this form seems at first glance to be quite distinct from 

 the form having the short pronotum, but careful comparison shows 

 them to be identical. The present authors' Apotettix minutus is 

 based on the elongate form, and in consequence their name falls into 

 the synonymy, although it would have to be retained to distinguish 

 this phase should a separate name be used to indicate it. The median 

 carina of the pronotum is decidedly variable in strength in both of 

 these forms. The general size varies considerably in both sexes 

 and the coloration in a large number is quite uniform in tone without 

 the usual paired blackish velvety spots. There is some variation in 

 the rugosity of the pronotum, a few specimens having the rugse very 

 weak, but the subscutellate frontal costa readily separates these 

 specimens from the femoratus-variabilis series. • 



This was the common species of tettigid on the wet ground, sparsely 

 overgrown with the knee-high marsh grass, found on the arms of the 

 everglades and in "pot-holes" in the pine woods. 

 Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 tf 1 n. 



This species, described from Georgia and Florida, has previously 

 been definitely recorded from but one locality, San Pablo, in the 

 latter State. 



The specimen before us is probably in the next to last nymphal 

 stage, and is referred without hesitation to this species. This nymph 

 was taken in the low moist spots in the pine woods among very low 

 swamp vegetation on the south bank of the Miami River. 



15 This specimen is the one recorded as "New Mexico" by Hancock. The 

 accession number shows it to have been taken in Dade County, Florida. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Tettigidea lateralis (Say). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 4 n. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 2 <? , 3 9 , 4 n. 



Specimens of this genus were found in the same locations as the 

 series of the two preceding genera but always in much smaller 

 numbers. The nymphs all show the front margin of the pronotum 

 distinctly angulate while the series of adults all have this margin 

 broadly arcuate. This would suggest that the ancestral form from 

 which this species is derived had the cephalic margin of the pronotum 

 produced over the head in a distinct angle. 

 Radinotatum brevipenne peninsulare subsp. now 



This insect differs from Radinotatum brevipenne in the longer head 

 with much more produced rostrum and more concave face, longer 

 antennae, pronotum with shallower lateral lobes, more linear and 

 usually shorter tegmina, longer and more slender caudal femora and 

 more delicate, shorter, genicular angles. The subgenital plate in the 

 male is also usually longer and more slender. 



Type ; o 71 : Homestead, Dade County, Florida, about wire-grass 

 in undergrowth of pine woods, March 17-19, 1910. (Hebard.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Size large for the genus. Body exceedingly slender and much 

 compressed. Head nearly twice as long as pronotum, strongly 

 produced, rostrate, face concave; fastigium in front of the eyes as 

 long as the eyes, nearly twice as long as broad, the lateral margins 

 parallel and strongly rotundato-rectangulate on the cephalic margin; 

 antennas long, triquetrous, rather broadly ensiform; eyes extremely 

 elongate-ovate. Pronotum elongate, the dorsum subequal in width; 

 lateral lobes vertical and subequal, cephalic margin very oblique, 

 slightly concave, the ventro-cephalic angle sharp and obtuse, caudal 

 margin broadly obtuse-angulate emarginate with the ventro-caudal 

 angle sharp and acute. Tegmina as long as pronotum, decidedly 

 elongate-lanceolate, narrowing proximad, apex very narrowly 

 rounded, separated by a space nearly twice as great as the tegminal 

 width. Subgenital plate very long and lanceolate, one and one-quarter 

 times the length of the pronotum. Caudal femora exceedingly slender, 

 nearly as long as the abdomen exclusive of the subgenital plate, with 

 genicular angles produced, the inner considerably more so than the 

 outer. 



Allotypic 9 . Data the same as the type. 



Considerably larger than the male, body less slender, antennae 

 proportionately more broadly ensiform, tegmina separated by a 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



247 



space somewhat more than twice the tegminal width, caudal femora 

 much shorter than abdomen. 



General color prout's brown, the lateral paired post ocular lines very 

 pale, the dorsal of these extending to the tips of the tegmina, the 



Figs. 1 and 2. — Lateral views of males of Radinotatum brevipenne peninsulars 

 (1, Type) and R. brevipenne (2; Thomasville, Ga.). (X 1§.) 



ventral extending to the ventro-caudal angle of the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum. These lines are particularly distinct in the male, and 

 in the same sex there is also a medio-longitudinal bar of hair-brown 

 on the dorsal surface of the head increasing in width ventrad. The 



Figs. 3 and 4. — Lateral view of females of Radinotatum brevipenne peninsvlare 

 (3, Allotype) and R. brevipenne (4; Thomasville, Ga.). (X 1J.) 




248 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June. 



female is irregularly speckled about the head with clove-brown, but 

 under the microscope this appears to be due to a diseased condition. 

 The type and allotypic female have been measured and the results 

 are given below (in millimeters), together with the measurements of a 

 male and female of Radinotatum brevipenne from Thomasville, Ga. ; 

 the latter specimens appear to be typical^of that species over the 

 greater part of its range. 



Figs. 5 and 6. — Dorsal outline of head and pronotum of males of Radinotatum 

 brevipenne pcninsulare (5, Type) and R. brevipenne (6; Thomasville, Ga.). 

 (X2.) 



R. brevipenne 

 peninsulare. 



Type 



<?•. 

 Length of body 35. 



Facial length of head (to clypeal 

 suture) 8. 



Length of fastigium (from eyes). 2.2 



Width of fastigium (in front of 

 eyes) 1.2 



Length of antenna 13.5 



Length of pronotum 4. 



Width of pronotum 2.2 



Depth of lateral lobe of prono- 

 tum 1.5 



Length of tegmen. 4. 



Greatest width of tegmen 7 



Length of caudal femur 15. 



Greatest width of caudal femur... 1.2 



Length of subgenital plate 5. 



14 Antennae aborted, the length of the antennae in other females from the same 

 locality is given in parentheses. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



249 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us the fol- 

 lowing series which may be considered paratypic: 



Figs. 7 and 8. — Dorsal outline of head and pronotum of females of Radinotatum 

 brevipenne peninsidare (7, Allotype) and R. brevipenne (8; Thomasville, Ga.). 

 (X 2.) 



Figs. 9 and 10. — Dorsal view of distal extremity of caudal femur of females of 

 Radinotatum brevipenne peninsulare (9, Allotype) and R. brevipenne (10; 

 Thomasville, Ga.). (Greatly enlarged.) 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 35 d\ 18 9, 1 9 n. 



Miami, Fla., Jan. 27, 1899; 1 9 : Jan. 29, 31 and Feb. 3, 1903; 

 2 d\ 1 9 : Feb. 6, 9, 1904; 9 tf 1 , 1 9 , 1 9 n.: July 28, 1904; 1 9 : 

 March 20-28, 1910; 11 d\ 6 9 , 1 & n., 1 9 n.: Nov. 16, 1911 (Engle- 

 hardt); 2 cT, 1 9 , 1 n. [B. I.]: March 2 9 n. [U. S. N. M.]. 



Besides the paratypes we have before us a series of specimens 

 from the following localities which belong to this species: 



Fort Reed, Fla., April 28, 1876 (Comstock); 1 9 [Hebard Col- 

 lection]. 



Gotha, Fla., October, 1901; 1 d", 2 9 [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Tampa, Fla., January 17, 1904 (Hebard); 2 cf, 1 9 . 

 Chokoloskee, Fla.; 1 9 [Hebard Collection]. 

 Capron, Fla.; 1 tf 1 [U. S. N. M.]. 



In the large series from Homestead and Miami little variation is 



17 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



to be found; both brown and green phases are represented, the 

 former much more numerous, as has been observed in Radinotatinu 

 brevipenne. There is a suggestion of an approach toward Radino- 

 tatum brevipenne in one of the females from Gotha. 



In the series of Radinotatum brevipenne before us we find an adult 

 female from Daytona and a nymphal female from Archer, Fla., 

 showing a strong approach to the southern form in several characters; 

 in fact, these specimens are nearly intermediate between the two. 

 A series from Gainesville and Ormond, Fla., show a tendency toward 

 the southern form in a few characters. Examination of the types in 

 the National Museum shows that Radinotatum brevipenne was de- 

 scribed from individuals which have some of these characteristics, 

 since these specimens were taken at Palatka, Fla., a locality but 

 little north of the region where the two races intergrade. 



The species here described was first recorded by Scudder 15 as 

 Achurum brevipenne from Fort Reed, Fla. A large number of 

 adults with a few nymphs were taken in this locality by Comstock 

 between April 5 and May 1, 1876. Comstock 16 himself, speaking of 

 these specimens, says that he has found the species north to the coast 

 of Maryland. This latter record is highly improbable, as nymphs 

 of the. genus Mermiria were doubtless mistaken for the species. 

 We feel able to make this assertion owing to the fact that considerable 

 field work along the Atlantic coast has shown us that the range of 

 Radinotatum brevipenne is limited to points far south of Maryland. 



The present authors 17 have recorded this form as Radinotatum 

 brevipenne on two previous occasions from Miami and Tampa, 

 Fla., while Caudell 18 has similarly recorded it from Arcadia and Miami. 



It is evident that this form has not been recognized previously 

 owing to the fact that so little material of this genus has been avail- 

 able. 



The range of R. brevipenne peninsulare covers the mainland of 

 southern Florida and extends northward to the vicinity of the 

 twenty-ninth degree of north latitude. 



The species was common in the undergrowth of the pine woods. 



Mermiria «p- 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 4 n. 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 n. 



These specimens are quite immature. 



15 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 88, 1877. 



16 Introd. Ent., p. 101, 1888. 



17 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, Vol. XXVII, p. 331, 1902, and these Proceedings, p. 35, 

 1905. 



™Enl. News, Vol. XVI, p. 217, 1905. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



Macneillia obscura (Sc). 



Eritettix sylvestrus Blatchley, A Nature Wooing, pp. 192, 219, 1902. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 2c?,4n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 19, 1910; 1 9 . 



There is great variation in this species, both in general coloration 

 and in the intensity of the color pattern. In one of the males from 

 Miami the general color is Vandyke brown gradually changing dorsad 

 to seal-brown on all but the upper edge of the wings, the dorsal 

 median section of the pronotum between the supplementary carinse 

 and the corresponding portion of the head; these latter portions of 

 the insect are clay color, naturally making a striking contrast. The 

 other adult male from the same locality is nearly uniform prout's 

 brown in color. This diversity of coloration is found throughout 

 the series from other localities which we have studied. 



We have received for examination one male and two females of 

 this species from Ormond, Fla., taken April 10, 1899, by W. S. 

 Blatchley. A male and female were correctly recorded as this species 

 in A Nature Wooing, but the other female, which is highly colored 

 and has the vertex slightly more produced, was described as Eritettix 

 sylvestrus in that work. The species was described from two females, 

 but the other type specimen has been destroyed. In the absence 

 of a large series such an error is easily understood. We have before 

 us females which agree perfectly with Blatchley's type, and in the 

 frequent specimens which have the lateral carinse strikingly whitish, 

 the general superficial resemblance to Eritettix is very apparent. 

 The more unicolorous specimens often have the lateral carinse of the 

 pronotum very faint and sometimes absent. The variability of 

 this character in Eritettix has been noted by the present authors, and 

 it is likely that such will be found to be true in still other species 

 of the Truxalinse. 19 



As is almost always found to be the case with this species, the six 

 specimens from Miami were all found in an area not more than a rod 

 in diameter. All of the specimens here recorded were taken in the 

 undergrowth of the pine woods. The species may be considered 

 scarce. 

 Amblytropidia occidentalis (Sauss.). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 5 d\ 5 9 . 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 d\ 2 9. 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 3 d", 4 9 . 



19 These Proceedings, 1910, p. 626. 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 7 <?, 1 9 . 

 Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 2 9 . 



We have before us all the available material of this species from 

 southern Florida and find that specimens from Cape Florida on Key 

 Biscayne, Long Key, Key Vaca and Boot Key, as a rule have the 

 body slightly more compressed, the face more retreating, and the 

 caudal femora slightly more slender. These differences from main- 

 land individuals are, however, very slight, not absolutely constant 

 and sometimes but one of the three may be appreciable, while a few 

 mainland specimens possess the usual insular characters. 



In size the Miami and Homestead individuals are but slightly 

 larger than Thomasville, Ga., specimens. The Boot Key and 

 Key Vaca representatives are much the same size as those from 

 Miami and Homestead, although several males are distinctly larger 

 than Thomasville individuals of the same sex. The Long Key 

 specimens exceed in size any individuals of the species seen by us, 

 the females particularly being very large. A series of five males 

 and six females from Cape Florida on Key Biscayne, average larger 

 than any series except that from Long Key. Measurements (in 

 millimeters) of average individuals from the localities mentioned 

 above are as follows: 



Thomas- 

 ville. Miami. 



Length of body 18.8 20.2 



Length of pronotum 4. 4.2 



Length of tegmen 16.8 16.2 



Length of caudal femur 13. 13.5 



Females. 



Thomas- Home- Cape Long Key 



ville. Miami, stead. Florida. Key. Vaca. 



Length of body 24.5 29. 29.5 31. 31.8 29.5 



Length of pronotum 5.1 5.5 5.9 5.8 7. 6. 



Length of tegmen 20.5 21. 20.8 23.2 25. 22.2 



Length of caudal femur 16.5 18.5 17.5 20.2 21.8 19.2 



The usual polychromatism of the species is exemplified in the 

 present series. The Long Key females are all of the strongly bicolored 

 type with the dorsal aspect uniform ochraceous and the lateral and 

 ventral faces nearly uniform seal-brown. The males from the same 

 locality are similarly but much less decidedly colored, the same also 

 being true in the case of the Key Vaca individuals. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



The specimens taken on the Florida mainland were all captured 

 in the undergrowth of pine woods. Pines do not grow on any of the 

 Keys which were examined, and the specimens of this species were 

 there found in the luxuriant tangles on the edge of the scrub and in 

 a sort of wire-grass. 



Orphulella pelidna (Burm.1. 



Miami, Fla., March 20, 27, 28, 1910; 5 &, 4 9 , 2 n.: November 

 16, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 9 [B. I.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 9 . 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 2^,3 9 . 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 3^,3 9 , 1 n. 



Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 3 <?, 3 9 , 1 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 2 tf 1 , 5 9 : November 21, 

 1911 (Englehardt); 2 9 [B. I.]. 



These specimens are similar in character to New Jersey individuals 

 of the species, exhibiting considerable diversity in size and relative 

 tegminal length, even in specimens from the same locality. Practi- 

 cally all of the color phases found in the species are represented in 

 the south Florida series. 



At Miami and Homestead this species was found in wet depres- 

 sions in the pine woods, while on Long Key and Key Vaca it was taken 

 among the salt-marsh grasses growing scantily on the otherwise 

 bare coquina rock of the low wet portions of these Keys. At Boot 

 Key the specimens were taken among scant tufts of wire-grass 

 growing on the coquina, and were noticed to resemble very closely in 

 color the surface of the rock. The species was found quite plentiful at 

 Key West among the peculiar halophytic plants which grow on the 

 bare coquina. 



Arphia granulata Sauss. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 9 tf, 2 9 , 2 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 4 d". 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 12 d\ 6 9 . 



Several males and females from Key West vary from burnt umber 

 to chestnut in general coloration and are very little mottled, the 

 rest of the specimens of the series here recorded have as a basic color 

 clove-brown, usually variously mottled with a lighter color. In 

 these latter specimens the two dark bands on the caudal femora are 

 generally quite pronounced, while in the more reddish individuals 

 these bands are either very faint or wholly lacking. 



This species was found in open spots in the pine woods at Miami 

 and Homestead, at the former place not infrequently. At Key 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



West the species was quite plentiful in the open spots in the scrub, 

 where on the previous visit it was only occasionally found. 



Chortophaga australior R and H. 



Palm Beach, Fla., November 12, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 c? 

 |B. I.]. 



Lemon City, Fla.; (E. J. Brown); 2 cf . [U. S. N. M.] 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 8 d\ 4 9 , 3 n: March (Dyar 

 and Caudell) ; 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17, 18, 1910; 2 9 . 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 4 d\ 2 9 . 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 18 a*, 11 9 : November 21, 

 1911 (Englehardt); 2^,4? [B.I.]: March (Dyar and Caudell); 

 7 cf [U.S. N. M.]: April 13, 1903 (Schwarz); 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



In the present series there are but seven specimens in the green 

 color phase, all of which are females and, with the exception of one 

 individual from Miami, were taken at Key West. One of the female 

 specimens from Key Vaca and one from Key West show a decided 

 approach to this color form, but in these specimens the face and 

 dorsal surface of head and pronotum are suffused with ferruginous, 

 while the bases and tips of the caudal femora are washed with madder- 

 red, which color is more faintly indicated on the contiguous portions 

 of the tegmina. In a large number of the darker specimens before 

 us, the light cruciform marking on the pronotum is very noticeable. 



This decidedly campestrian species was abundant wherever found. 

 The insects fly up with alacrity when disturbed, making a whirring, 

 clicking sound in their flight. Although this species is always found 

 in large colonies, the insects are sufficiently wary and rapid in flight 

 to cause the capture of a series to be quite a task. 



Scirtetica marmorata picta (Sc). 



Capron, Fla., April 24; 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Palm Beach, Fla., November 12, 1911 (Englehardt); 1 & [B. I.]. 

 Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 13 <?, 3 9 , 1 n: November 16, 

 1911 (Englehardt); 1 9 [B. I.]. 



After examining about one hundred specimens of Scirtetica mar- 

 morata from Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Jersey and 

 eighty-one specimens which are referable to picta, we have reached 

 the conclusion that Morse's suggestion 20 that the two forms are but 

 geographic races of the same species is strongly supported by our 

 material. Unfortunately, we lack specimens from eastern Virginia 

 and northeastern North Carolina, but we now have a sufficient 



30 Publ. 18, Carnegie Inst,, p. 37, 1904. 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



255 



series from southwestern North Carolina to prove to us that inter- 

 graduation does exist. 



The characters of typical individuals of the two races can best be 

 shown in tabular form: 



S. marmorata. 



Wing narrower, its greatest width 

 contained one and three-fourths 

 to one and seven-eighths times 

 in the length. 



Disk of wing sulphur-yellow. 



Wing band relatively narrow, 

 always narrower than the 

 width of the colored disk, never 

 continued around to the inter- 

 nal margin of the wing. 



Disk of pronotum frequently with 

 pale decussate markings. 



S. marmorata pida. 



Wing broader, its greatest width 

 contained one and one-half to 

 one and three-fourths times in 

 the length. 



Disk of wing varying from deep 

 chrome to cadmium-yellow. 



Wing band relatively broad, rare- 

 ly narrower than, usually as 

 broad as the width of the colored 

 disk, continued around to, or 

 nearly to, the internal margin of 

 the wing. 



Disk of pronotum never with 

 pale decussate markings, uni- 

 form in color. 



In addition to these features certain others are evident in a number 

 of specimens, but not so consistently as to be considered diagnostic. 

 These are the usually more distinct median carina of the pronotum 

 of marmorata, the very frequent breaking up in pida of the three 



Figs. 11 and 12. — Tegmen and wing of male of Scirtetica marmorata (11, Clemen- 

 ton, N. J.) and of same sex of S. marmorata pida (12, Miami, Fla.). ( X 1J.) 



usually present and well-defined dark tegminal cross bars of mar- 

 morata 21 and the usually more robust build of marmorata. The 

 pronotum of marmorata is more constricted cephalo-mesad than is 



21 In the unicolorous individuals which occur in both races these maculations 

 are almost absent. 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



that of picta, but as this can hardly be appreciated without actual 

 comparison of specimens, we have not given it in the above table. 



Specimens from Winter Park, New Hanover County, North 

 Carolina, have the proportions of the wings intermediate between 

 the extremes of marmorata and picta, while the bands of the wings 

 are no wider than in marmorata and of similar form, although the 

 color of the disk is closer to picta in several specimens and exactly 

 intermediate in others. Several of these specimens also have traces 

 of the decussate pronotal markings of marmorata, while the character 

 of the median carina of the pronotum and of the pronotal constriction 

 i> closer to picta. From these notes it can easily be seen that the 

 characters of the two forms are blended in the individuals from 

 southeastern North Carolina. In consequence of this we have used 

 a trinomial for this form. 



The specimens from Miami were taken in the pine woods. 



Psinidia fenestralis (Seiv.). 



Palm Beach, Fla,, November 12, 1910 (Englehardt) ; 1 d 1 , 1 9 

 [B. I.]. 

 Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 5 cf , 4 9 , 1 n. 



The coloration of the disk of the wings in this series ranges from 

 orange-buff to orange. The species was found fairly abundant in 

 sandy spots in the pine woods. 

 Romalea microptera (Beauv.). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17, 18, 1910; 4 n. 



Four of these specimens are in the same nymphal stage and would 

 all approximate a length of 12 mm. if not shrunken. The remaining 

 specimen, from Homestead, is apparently in the following nymphal 

 stage and is 19 mm. in length. 



The coloration of nymphs of this species is constant, all are black 

 marked with yellowish-red, as is fairly well shown by Glover 22 in his 

 illustration of the nymph of this species. These markings, contrary 

 to that illustration, border only the caudal margin of the pronotum, 

 and in the specimens in the more immature stage before us are 

 orange-vermilion. The specimen in the nymphal stage following 

 has these markings colored sat urn red. We have noticed that the 

 newly emerged nymphs of this species have these markings nearly • 

 vermilion, while in the nymphs approaching maturity the same 

 markings are usually cadmium-yellow. 



2 i 



III. N. A. Ent., Orth., pi. 3, fig. 4, 1S72. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



All of these .specimens were taken in the grasses of the everglades. 

 At this time of year colonies of these, each usually numbering several 

 dozen, may be found in such places, all close to the spot from which 

 they have emerged from the ground. 

 Leptysma marginicollis (Serv.). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 d\ 3 9 . 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 3 d", 3 9 , 1 n. 



One female specimen from each of these localities has the general 

 coloration oil green instead of the prout's brown coloration usually 

 found in this species; the dorsal surface, however, in each of these 

 specimens is cinnamon. The lateral pale bars are strongly indicated 

 in "all but one of the adults here recorded. The series before us 

 would indicate that in this species there is some increase in size 

 southward, but we find that this is not constant. The length of the 

 females which we have examined from southern Florida varies from 

 32.5 mm. to 38.5 mm. 



At Homestead the specimens were all taken among grasses in the 

 everglades, while those from Miami were captured among a few 

 cat-tails growing in a wet spot. 



Schistocerca americana Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 20, 27, 1910; 3 d\ 1 9 • 



Kev Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 d\ 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 2 d\ 2 9 . 



Kev Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 d", 1 9 . 



Boot Kev, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 d\ 1 9 . 



Kev West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 4 d\ 1 9 : November 21, 

 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 9 [B.I.]. 



In this series of specimens, taken in extreme southern Florida, the 

 wing length in many cases, notably in the individuals from the Keys. 

 is much less than the average of those from more northern localities. 

 The following measurements in millimeters give the average of some 

 forty specimens we have examined; the figures in parentheses indicate 

 the range of variation in specimens from the region given. 



Length of pronotum. Length of tegmina. 



Males from southern 



Florida 8.2 ( 7.5 to 8.7) 37.4 (34.5 to 40.5) 



Males from Georgia to 



Pennsylvania 8.3 ( 8.2 to 9. ) 43.8 (41.7 to 47.2) 



Females from southern 



Florida 10.4 ( 9.5 to 12. ) 46.9 (42.2 to 50. ) 



Females from Georgia to 



Pennsylvania 10.6 (10. to 10.7) 56.8 (54. to 58.5) 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



In other respects the southern Florida specimens are inseparable 

 from those taken farther north, and can certainly not be considered 

 worthy of racial distinction. 



The specimens from Long Key and Key West are paler than is 

 usual in southeastern individuals of this species, but show no approach 

 whatever to the Cuban Schistocerca pollens. 



At Miami this species was not uncommon in the pine woods; it 

 was occasional on the Keys and was noticed to be plentiful on Long 

 Key among beach vegetation on the shore. 



Schistocerca damnifica oalidior subsp. nov. 



This southern or Lower Austral representative of Schistocerca 

 damnifica of the Upper Austral Zone is separated from the typical 

 form by the greater general size, the more elongate and proportion- 

 ately much slenderer tegmina, longer and more filiform antennse 

 and slenderer caudal femora. The insect is, in the new form, much 

 more elongate than in damnifica sensu strictiore, and the general 

 appearance is quite different, but in analyzing the characters we find 

 it hard to express the differences except in a few features. 



The median carina of the pronotum is, in the new form, very 

 generally less elevated and arcuate, and more depressed when seen 

 from the side, but this is not absolute as quite a few specimens of 

 S. damnifica calidior have this carina appreciably arcuate. The 

 width of the marginal and discoidal fields of the tegmina, taken at 

 the distal third, is in the male of true damnifica (ex New Jersey) 

 contained four and one-half to four and three-quarters times in the 

 greatest tegminal length, in the female of the same form this pro- 

 portion varies from the same as in the male to having the tegminal 

 width contained five times in the tegminal length. The male of 

 the new form has the same width of the tegmina contained from six 

 to nearly seven times in the tegminal length, while the female has 

 the width contained from five and one-half to six and one-quarter 

 times in the length. 



The caudal femora of damnifica s. s. have the greatest width con- 

 tained from four to four and one-quarter times in the length of the 

 -a me, while S. damnifica calidior has the width of the same con- 

 tained four and one-half times in the length. 



The original description of damnifica is clearly based on the northern 

 form, the measurement of length (37 mm.) perfectly fitting northern 

 female specimens, while this measurement is much surpassed in that 

 sex of the southern form. The type locality — Tennessee — is near 

 the range of the southern race, and specimens from that region do 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



259 



not represent the extreme condition of the northern form as found 

 in New Jersey; however, we have Asheville, N. C, specimens 

 which would doubtless agree with Saussure's original material, and 

 these are decidedly the northern form. 



We find that none of the synonyms of damnified were based on the 

 southern race, and in consequence a new name is necessary to desig- 

 nate this distinctly differentiated form. Scudder used the previously 

 unpublished Acridium appendicidatum Uhler MSS. for specimens 

 of the form here described, but as it was unaccompanied by a descrip- 

 tion that name must date from Provancher, who referred a specimen 

 said to be from Canada to it. Scudder examined this individual and 

 assigned it to damnified. 



Type: d* ; Homestead, Dade County, Fla., undergrowth in pine 

 woods, March 17-19, 1910. (Hebarcl.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Size medium (for the genus). Form subcompressed, slender; 

 surface of greater portion of the body impressed ruguloso-punctate. 



Figs. 13 and 14. — Lateral outlines of males of Schistocercn damnified (13; Stafford's 

 Forge, N. J.) and S. damnified calidior (14; Type). (X li-) 



Head with the frontal costa subequal in width, not expanded between 

 the antennal bases, non-sulcate; eyes ovate, less elongate than in 

 true damnified ; antennae very slightly shorter than twice the greatest 

 dorsal length of the pronotum, subfiliform. Pronotum with the 

 median carina not at all elevato-arcuate, nearly straight when seen 

 from the side; caudal angle of the disk subrectangulate. Tegmina 




260 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



moderately elongate, surpassing the tips of the caudal femora by 

 two-thirds of the dorsal pronotal length, the width of the distal 

 third contained about six and one-half times in the greatest length 

 of the same; apical portion moderately narrowed by the arcuation 

 of the costal margin, the immediate apex obliquely rotundato- 

 truncate. Caudal femora moderately robust but with the distal 

 third slender, the greatest width contained four and one-half times 

 in the length of the same. 



Allotypic female. Miami, Dade County, Fla., undergrowth in 

 pine woods, March 27, 1910. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection.] 



Agrees with male except in the following characters. Size con- 

 siderably greater than in male. Antennae nearly one and one-half 

 times the dorsal length of the pronotum. Caudal angle of the 

 pronotal disk rounded obtuse-angulate. Tegmina in form similar 



Figs. 15 and 16. — Lateral outlines of females of Schistocerca damnified (15; 

 Stafford's Forge, N. J.) and S. damnified cdlidior (16; allotype). (X 1|.) 



to those of the male, surpassing the tips of the caudal femora by 

 one-half of the dorsal pronotal length, the width at the distal third 

 contained slightly more than six times in the length. Caudal 

 femora with the greatest width contained four and two-third times 

 in the length of the same. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



General color walnut-brown, passing ventrad into russet and 

 tawny-olive, the narrow but moderately denned median line on the 

 head and pronotum russet, while the anal area of the tegmina is 

 wood-brown, margined laterad by the burnt-umber wash of the 

 remainder of the tegmina. Antennae passing from cinnamon-rufous 

 at the base to hazel at the tips; eyes russet. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



S. damnified. 23 S. damnifica calidior. 

 d 1 . 9. cf Type. 9 Allotype. 



Length of body 23.8 34. 29. 46.5 



Length of pronotum 6. 8.5 7.2 9.5 



Length of tegmen 17.5 23.2 25.8 34. 



Length of caudal femur 13.2 18. 21.5 22.2 



In addition to the type and allotypic female we have before us 

 the following specimens which may be considered paratypic: 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 7 d\ 2 9 : November 16, 1911 

 (Englehardt) ; 2 9 [B. I.]. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 7 <?. 



The male individuals are fairly uniform in coloration, some few 

 specimens having the general tone deeper and more umber, while 

 others have the discoidal field of the tegmina distinctly crypto- 

 maculate. The additional Miami females, however, have the gen- 

 eral colors more clay color and bistre, with the pronotum strongly 

 marked with the latter and the discoidal and marginal fields of the 

 tegmina strongly maculate with the same, the caudal tibiae also 

 being quite purplish. These specimens greatly resemble brownish 

 individuals of S. alutacea. 



In studying this form we have had before us a series of over one 

 hundred and forty specimens of the two forms from south of Virginia, 

 a sufficient series to enable us to map with considerable accuracy 

 the limits of the range of both forms. 



True damnifica probably ranges over the entire Upper Austral 

 Zone, extending southward over the Appalachian system as far as 

 Gainesville and Atlanta, Ga., and eastward over the lower country 

 to Raleigh, N. C. The specimens from Raleigh and Atlanta show a 

 slight approach to S. damnifica calidior, but in general form they are 

 much closer to the northern type. The new form is typical north- 



23 The specimens whose measurements are here given are from Stafford's 

 Forge, N. J., and have been used for comparison with the new form as well as 

 having been figured above. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



ward as far as Yemassee, S. C.j and Thomasville, Ga. Specimens 

 from the region about Florence, S. C, Wilmington and Fayetteville, 

 N. C, show decided tendencies toward the northern form, although 

 they are in general more representative of calidwr. The area of 

 intergradation is between the Blue Ridge and the low coastal plain 

 region, probably being approximately marked by the fall line. 



S. damnified calidior was occasional in the low undergrowth of the 

 pine woods at Homestead and Miami, at the latter locality it was 

 plentiful at one place where the undergrowth was more than waist 

 high on the edge of a hammock. The males are active and fly 

 with quite the vigor of S. alutacea. 



Arranging our material from the Southeastern States according 

 to the above distribution, we have the localities grouped as follows: 



Schistocerca damnified (Sauss.). 



North Carolina; Asheville, 24 Raleigh. 24 

 Georgia; Gainesville, Atlanta. 25 



Schistocercd damnified cdlidior subsp. nov. 



North Carolina; Fayetteville, Wilmington, Winter Park. 



South Carolina; Florence, Yemassee. 



Georgia; Tybee Island, Isle of Hope, Sandfly, St. Simon's Island, 

 Cumberland Island, Brunswick, 25 Waynesville, 25 Jesup, Okeefenokee 

 Swamp, Albany, 25 Thomasville. 26 



Florida; Live Oak, Jacksonville, San Pablo, 27 Pablo Beach, 27 

 Gainesville, 27 Melbourne, Miami, Homestead, Chokoloskee. 2& 



Melanoplus puer Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 20-28, 1910; 19 <?, 8 9 , 2 n: November 16, 

 1911 (Englehardt) ; 2 <?, 1 9 [B. I.]. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 14 &, 8 9 , 3 n. 



The series before us shows a marked increase in size over the 

 specimens of the type series from Fort Reed, Fla. 29 The males 

 range in length from 13.5 to 17 mm., while the females are from 19 

 to 22.5 mm.; the majority of the adults measuring nearest the 

 maximum. The insects here recorded are also all proportionately 

 heavier than the types, with strongly developed caudal femora. 

 We find, therefore, that the species materially increases in size 

 in its southward range and that it cannot be ranked among the 



24 These Proceedings, p. 632, 1910. 

 "-''Ibid., 1910, p. 594. 



26 Ibid., 1904, p. 789. 



27 Ibid., 1907, p. 292. 



25 Ibid., 1905, p. 40. 



29 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. XIX, p. 87, 1877. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



smaller species of the genus. The caudal margin of the disk of the 

 pronotum is very broadly V-shaped emarginate mesad, both in the 

 specimens here recorded and in the type series. The males show a 

 considerable amount of variation both in length and shape of the 

 cerci. The majority, however, agree with Scudder's description, 

 but one specimen has the cerci acutely styliform beyond the thickened 

 base and a number of individuals show a tendency to have the tip 

 subspatulate. The figures given by Sc udder 30 of the extremity of 

 the male abdomen of this species are extremely poor. 



Figs. 17 and 18. — Lateral and dorsal views of the apex of abdomen of male 

 Melanoplus puer from Miami, Fla. (X 6.) 



Scudder's color description is based on dried alcoholic specimens, 

 as the typical series are all in that condition, and we have conse- 

 quently deemed it advisable to give the following color notes. 



In the series before us the general color in the males varies from 

 russet to drab tinged with raw umber and in the females from burnt 

 umber to clove-brown tinged with vandyke brown. In the males the 

 customary spot on the lateral lobes of the pronotum is very pro- 

 nounced, piceous, triagonal in shape and covers about half the lateral 

 surface of the lobes; the females are not so noticeable in this respect 

 since they are, as a rule, darker in general coloration and have this 

 spot smaller and less intense. In all of the males the sides of the 

 first four abdominal segments are piceous, which color consequently 

 extends considerably beyond the tips of the tegmina; this marking- 

 is, in the females, suggested in only a few specimens. The hind 

 femora in both sexes are usually heavily twice banded, with the apex 

 also blackish, the darkest specimens alone having these bands faintly 

 indicated. The ventral face of the caudal femora is gamboge-yellow, 

 sometimes changing caudad to deep chrome in the males, and saturn 

 red usually shading to flame scarlet on the outer edge in the females. 

 In both sexes the caudal tibiae are without exception deep heliotrope- 

 purple. 



The species is local in distribution and is usually found in small 

 colonies in the undergrowth of the pine woods; it was scarce at 



30 



Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XX, pi. XVII, fig. 2, 1897. 




26-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Homestead, but locally common at Miami. The saltatorial ability 

 of this insect is surprising, but it is easily taken owing to the fact that 

 its movements are seldom hasty. 



Paroxya atlantica Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 20-28, 1910; 16 tf, 31 8 9 , 1 n (nymphs were 

 exceedingly abundant): November 16, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 2 9 

 [B. I.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 4 d\ 6 9, In (nymphs 

 were exceedingly abundant). 



We have examined the entire series previously recorded from 

 southern Florida by us as well as the material now being studied 

 and find that, when compared with specimens of the type series from 

 Georgia, 32 the individuals from Miami, Cape Florida on Key Biscayne 

 and Homestead are considerably smaller, more attenuate, with 

 proportionately longer tegmina and wings and usually lighter colora- 

 tion. There are no characters to be found in the series, however, 

 which would warrant its being considered a racial form. The 

 specimens before us from Thomasville, Ga., agree in every re- 

 spect with typical specimens. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Average 

 Typical c? 33 9 Cotype, in present series. 



Sandford, Fla. Georgia. d 1 9 



Length of body 22.5 29. 18. 24. 



Length of tegmen 17. 18. 15. 17.5 



Width of tegmen 3.2 4. 2.6 3.5 



Length of hind femur 13. 16. 11.5 13.5 



Width of hind femur 3. 4. 2.8 3.2 



The specimens here examined were all taken in damp spots in the 

 pine woods. 



Paroxya atlantica paroxyoides (Sc). 



Melanoplus paroxyoides of authors. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 4 <? , 4 9,3 n. 34 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 9^,5 9,1 n. 34 

 Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 10 o\ 9 9 . 



31 These specimens show conclusively that the species first reaches maturity 

 at Miami in late March. All of these specimens have recently reached the adult 

 condition, and seven have the curved white fine peculiar to the nymphal state 

 still indicated on the sides of the pronotum. 



32 These specimens were sent to Professor Bruner by Mr. Scudder and are now 

 in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner. 



33 Proc. U. S.N. M., Vol. XX, p. 382, 1897. 



34 These specimens in nymphal stages have the bands of the caudal femora 

 already well marked. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



265 



Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 9. 



Key West, Fla., January 19, 1904 ; 35 17 d" , 9 9 : March 15-16, 

 1910; 9 d\ 7 9 : November 21, 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 9 [B. I.]. 



The species Melanoplus paroxyoides™ was described by Scudder 

 from three males and four females taken at Key West and Talla- 

 hassee, Fla., and a male single type from Key West has been se- 

 lected by the present authors. 37 It is hard to understand how this 

 species could have been placed in the genus Melanoplus by a worker 

 familiar with the genus Paroxya. The types 38 show that it is but 

 a geographic race of Paroxya atlantica, so near typical specimens 

 of the latter now before us that we must rely almost wholly on 

 coloration to separate the two forms. 



The series at hand from the southern Keys differs, it is true, from 

 true atlantica in being, as a rule, smaller but somewhat heavier, with 

 proportionately shorter tegmina and more robust caudal femora; 

 moreover, the male cerci are usually longer, more attenuate and 

 roundly spatulate at the apex, while the supra-anal plate is more 

 subtriangulate in outline. 



On the other hand, careful examination of the entire series of 

 eighty-eight specimens from the southern Keys shows that none of 

 these characters are sufficiently constant to be of diagnostic value 

 and that no constant structural differences exist. 



The coloration of the caudal tibiae is, however, in the majority of 

 the specimens from the southern Keys, 

 quite distinctive and a grayish suffusion 

 is frequently noticeable. A large number 

 of individuals have the lateral face of the 

 caudal femora heavily trifasciate with 

 very dark brown, quite a few specimens 

 have these markings very pale, while in 

 others the entire surface is darkly 

 suffused; in every specimen examined, 

 however, the inner half of the dorsal face 

 of the caudal femora is noticeably thrice 



Fig. 19.— C a u d a 1 1 i m b of 

 male Paroxya atlantica 

 paroxyoides, from Key 

 Vaca, Fla. (X 3.) 



spotted with the color which, in the more heavily marked individuals, 



35 These twenty-six specimens from Key West were recorded as P. atlantica 

 by the present authors; these Proceedings, 1907, p. 298. 



36 Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XX, p. 331, 1897. 



37 These Proceedings, 1912, p. 86. 



38 Type and two paratypic females from Key West, Fla. (Morrison), in Hebard 

 Collection ex Bruner. 



18 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



characterizes the tri-fasciate markings; these spots if present at all, 

 are almost never so pronounced in true atlantica. 



The series from the southern Keys are readily separable from 

 specimens of atlantica from the mainland and Cape Florida on Key 

 Biscayne, although their characters are practically intangible and 

 exceedingly difficult to express without exaggeration. 



Caudell's record of Melanoplus paroxyoides from Miami 39 belongs 

 to Paroxya atlantica; the paratypes from Tallahassee, Fla., should 

 doubtless be referred to the same form. 



This geographic race is usually found fairly abundant in the low 



halophytic vegetation growing on the otherwise almost bare coquina 



rock of the Keys and also in the tangled growth along the edge of 



the scrub. 



Average measurements {in millimeters). 



J 1 9 



Length of body 20. 27. 



Length of tegmina 14.8 17. 



Width of tegmina 3. 3.9 



Length of hind femora 12. 14.7 



Width of hind femora 3. 3.9 



Apteoopedes clara Rehn. 



Punta Gorda, Fla., November 11, 1911 (Davis); 1 9 [U. S. N. M.j. 



Palm Beach, Fla., January 24 (Dyar) ; 19: 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 3 &, 5 9 , 3 n: November 16, 

 1911 (Englehardt); 1 9 [B. I.]. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 5 d\ 3 9 . 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 2<?,ln. 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 4 d". 



Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 3 d\ 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 4^,2 9 : November 16, 

 1911 (Englehardt); 1 9 [B. I.]. 



This series shows that while there is considerable variation in size, 

 both geographic and individual, in the present species, the characters 

 originally given hold true in the series of seventy specimens now 

 available for study. As previously pointed out by us, 40 male speci- 

 mens from Tampa are not quite typical in the form of the cerci, these 

 being less elongate and not as decidedly falcate as in individuals 

 from southern Florida, but in all other characters they are fully 

 representative of clara. It is possible that this species is a geographic 

 race of sphenarioides, but we have no positive evidence of this or 

 even of approach to that form except in the shortening of the distal 

 portion of the cerci in the Tampa specimens. 



39 Enl. News, Vol. XVI, p. 218, 1905. 



40 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 41. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



The males of the two species may be separated by the following 

 characters : 



.4. sphenarioides. A. clara. 



Antennae shorter. Antenna? longer. 



Furcula narrow, digitiform, tips Furcula broad depressed lobes, 

 variable in production. hardly produced. 



Supra-anal plate narrow, lateral Supra-anal plate broad, lateral 

 margins in large part straight margins arcuate, not subparal- 

 and subparallel. lei. 



Cerci short, simple, styliform. Cerci elongate, acute falcate 



distad. 



The form of the cerci of the males varies somewhat in the present 

 series, although in all cases the general outline remains the same. 

 The variation lies entirely in the width of the cercus, the degree of 

 falcation of the distal portion and the presence or absence of a very 

 broad, blunt angulation at the distal third of the dorsal margin. 

 The Cape Florida specimens previously recorded and measured by 

 us, 41 in the male sex surpass in size any individuals of that sex in the 

 present series, although in the female they are equalled by Miami, 

 Homestead, Boot Key, and Key West representatives. 



The range of this beautiful species is now known to extend north 

 to Tampa, south on the mainland at least as far as Homestead and 

 over the Keys to Key West. We have no knowledge of the limit of 

 its range along the east coast of Florida. Scudder's records of 

 Aptenopedes sphenarioides from Key West and Biscayne Bay 42 are 

 erroneous references of female individuals of this form 43 to the more 

 northern species. 



On the Keys this species was found in very scant numbers, usually 

 on the edge of the scrub where the low undergrowth was unusually 

 heavy, while on the mainland the specimens were taken in low spots 

 in the pine woods and once or twice were beaten from the marsh 

 grasses growing on arms of the everglades. 



Aptenopedes aptera Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 20-28, 1910; 2 tf, 2 9 . 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 &. 



"Ibid., p. 41. 



« Proc. U. S. N. M., Vol. XX, p. 400, 1897. 



43 We have before us, ex Cln. Bruner, a Biscayne Bay female examined by 

 Scudder and labelled sphenarioides by him when studying the genus for his 

 Melanopli revision. This specimen is of course clara. Doubtless he would have 

 separated the species if he had had the more easily recognized male. 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The specimens here recorded were captured in the low undergrowth 

 of the pine woods, all of the individuals seen being taken. 



TETTIGONIID^]. 

 Stilpnochlora marginella (Serv.). 



Lake Worth, Fla., June 24, 1889; eggs [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Key West, Fla., March 16, 1910; 1 9 : April 24, 1881 (Schwarz) ; 

 1 adult [U. S. N. M.]. 



The collection of the Academy contains a male specimen labelled 

 " Fla. " This individual has been compared with material from Cuba, 

 Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Cayenne. The only previous 

 records of this species from within the United States were those 

 from the Tortugas by Scudder 44 from Chokoloskee, Fla., by the 

 authors 45 and from Florida by Caudell. 46 



The specimen taken by the junior author was beaten from a high 

 bush, Ilex cassine, some ten feet from the ground, and when opened 

 for stuffing was found to contain one hundred and twenty-four fully 

 developed and fourteen partially developed eggs. The specimen is 

 somewhat battered, and it is probable that very few specimens of the 

 species survive the winter in this region. 



Scudderia texensis Sauss. and Pictet. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 2 & : November 16, 1911 (Engle- 

 hardt); 1 9 [B. I.]. 



The collection of the Academy contains a male taken at the same 

 locality on January 20, 1899, by S. N. and M. C. Rhoads. 



Microcentrum rhombifolium (Sauss.). 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 1910; 1 tf . 



This specimen was taken, on a hedge at night, where at intervals 

 it was giving its loud stridulation, which sound most resembles a 

 harsh "tszzickk!" 



Conocephalus gracillimus (Sc). 



Xiphidium gracillimum of authors. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 d\ 3 n. (nymphs were exceedingly 

 abundant.) 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 7(^,3 9 , 2 n. (nymphs 

 were exceedingly abundant.) 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 n. 



Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 n. 



44 Bost. Jn. Nat. Hist., Vol. VII, p. 447, 1862. (As the synonymous Micro- 

 centrum thoracicum.) 



45 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 42. 



46 Can. Ent., XXXIX, p. 287, 1907., 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



269 



These specimens show but little variation in size and almost none 

 at all in coloration. The nymphs are easily recognized by the 

 striking dark median bar and the very narrow fastigium. The present 

 records carry the known range of the species out over the Keys, 

 while it has been recorded from as far north as Tampa. 



Both at Miami and Homestead the high grass on the everglades 

 was swarming with nymphs of this species in all stages of development, 

 but the few adults were secured only after strenuous and long- 

 continued beating, and all proved to have reached maturity very 

 recently. In this region the great majority of the individuals of 

 this species probably reach maturity during the first part of April. 



Atlanticus glaber n. sp. 



This fine species differs from its nearest relative, Atlanticus gibbosus, 

 in having a proportionately longer pronotum with the disk trans- 

 versely more convex and subequal in width throughout, the caudal 

 margin much narrower and more sharply 

 rounded. The lateral carinae of the 

 pronotum differ in being parallel and of 

 equal intensity throughout, while the 

 median carina is faintly indicated 

 throughout and more pronounced on the 

 metazona. The caudal margins of the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum are much 

 less sinuate. The abdomen above is 

 much more distinctly tricarinate and the 

 posterior femora are shorter and much 

 less swollen on the basal half than in any 

 other species of the genus. The cerci of 

 the male are not at all like those of 

 A. gibbosus, they somewhat resemble 

 those of A. pachymerus, but are much 

 stouter. 



Type; c? : Miami, Dade County, 

 Fla., on narrow arm of the everglades 

 sparsely overgrown with knee-high marsh 

 grasses, March 28, 1910. (Hebard.) 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Size not as large as A. gibbosus. Body 

 slender and compressed for the genus. 

 Head moderately large; fastigium broad, 

 rounded, broader than first antennal 



Fig. 20. — Atlanticus glaber 

 n . sp . Dorsal view of type. 

 (X li) 




270 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



segment, not as broad proportionally as in A. gibbosus; eyes moderate, 

 not prominent; antennae long and slender, basally enlarged. Pro- 

 notum large, elongate, much more so than in any other of the three 

 previously known species of the genus, produced caudad over the 

 base of the tegmina, only the costal portion of the distal margin of 

 the tegmina being visible from above; disk of the pronotum long, 

 narrow, and convex, without transverse sulci, subequal in width, the 

 cephalic margin subtruncate, the caudal margin strongly rotundato- 

 arcuate. Tegmina extending to caudal margin of pronotal disk, 

 the costal portion of the distal margin visible from above. Abdomen 

 not so heavy as in A. gibbosus, distinctly tricarinate above. Cerci 

 of the male short, heavy, subdepressed proximad, becoming strongly 

 so distad, proximal portion subequal in width, distal section bluntly 

 acute-angulate when seen from above; internal tooth placed slightly 

 distad of the middle, short, sharp, slightly recurved. Spination as 

 in A. gibbosus except in the case of the external margin of the posterior 

 femora which are unarmed in the present species. 



Fig. 21. — Atlatdicus glaber n. sp. Lateral view of type. (X 1^.) 



Allotypic 9 . Taken in the low undergrowth of the pine woods; 

 other data the same as the type. 



Very little larger than the male, tegmina wholly concealed, caudal 

 limbs of the same general proportions, but slightly more elongate. 

 Ovipositor over one-quarter shorter than the caudal femora, as 

 heavy as in A. gibbosus, straight. 



General color broccoli-brown, face and antennse very light, broken 

 blackish markings extend caudad from caudal margins of the antennal 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



scrobes and the adjacent portions of the eyes. The lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum have the general pattern of coloration 

 found in Atlanticus very pronounced, being shining 

 black, bordered on the ventral margin with ivory- 

 white, this border being wide cephalad, but narrowing 

 sharply caudad; the entire cephalic portion of the 



lobes suffused with olive-grav. The sides of the Fi f: 22- ^ 'Allan- 



J turns glaber n. 



abdomen are marked on the first seven segments sp. Outline of 

 with triangular shining black maculations, these are Txfil cercus ' 

 large cephalad, but rapidly decrease in size ventrad 

 and terminate dorsad at the lateral carinse and ventrad at the margin 

 of the abdominal segment. The median carina of the abdomen is 

 necked with the same color, noticeably cephalad and gradually 

 disappearing caudad until absent on the ninth abdominal segment. 

 In coloration the female is very like the male except that the dorsal 

 portion of the head, pronotum and abdomen is faintly streaked with 

 bistre. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



Type. Allotypic. 



Length of body 31.5 32.5 



Length of pronotum 11.5 11.8 



Width of pronotum 4.1 4.1 



Length of caudal femur 25.8 28. 



Greatest width of caudal femur 4.4 4.9 



Least width of caudal femur 1.5 1.5 



Length of ovipositor 20. 



In addition to the type and allotype we have the following speci- 

 mens before us which may be considered paratypic: 



Homestead, Fla., March 19, 1910; one nymph probably in the 

 next to last nymphal stage. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; one nymph in the same stage. 



The specimens in the one-fourth grown condition taken at Miami, 

 February 6-9, 1904, and the still more immature individual taken 

 there on January 17, 1904, and recorded by the present authors as 

 Atlanticus sp., 47 are nymphs of the species here described. 



All of the specimens of this species, with the exception of the male 

 type, were taken in the low undergrowth of the pine woods, and there 

 is every reason to believe that this environment is the favorite 

 habitat of the species; the male type was captured while crossing 



47 These Proceedings, 1905, p. 48. 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



the previously mentioned narrow arm of the everglades from the 

 fringing pine woods on one side to those on the opposite margin. 



GRYLLIDiE. 



Scapteriscus abbreviates Sc. 



Key West, Fla., March 16, 1910; 2 9 . 



One of these specimens has the base color paler and more buffy 

 than the other. 



Both specimens were taken on the strand in burrows in the damp 

 sand, exposed by overturning large coquina boulders lying among 

 the growth of the plant Borrichia fontescens. 



In addition to these specimens, we have examined the following 

 in the United States National Museum: 



Port Tampa, Fla., February 7, 1899 (Brenan); 3 tf 1 . 

 Miami, Fla., April 8, 1904 (J. A. McCrony); 2 9 , 1 n. 

 Key West, Fla., May 23, 1911 (J. V. Harris); 1 d% 1 9 . 

 White Oak, Ga., (A. S. Barnwell); 1 tf, 1 9 , 1 n. 



The only previous record of the species from within the United 

 States was Scudder's "Southern Florida" reference in his catalogue. 

 Ellipes minuta (Sc). 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 1 d>, 4 9 , 5 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 n. 



The specimens from Miami were all taken in wet depressions in 

 the pine woods, while the specimen from Homestead was captured 

 in a pot-hole in the pine woods where a strawberry bed was situated. 



Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redt.). 



Miami, Fla. (Biscayne Bay), February 9, 1904; Id": (Slosson), 

 1 cf, [Mus. Comp. Zool. Cambr.]. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 7 d\ 5 9 , 2 & n., 2 9 n. 



Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 3 <?, 3 9 n., 1 9 n. 



Boot Key, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 rf. 



Key West, Fla., January 19, 1904; 1 d\ 2 9 , 4 9 n.: March 15, 

 16, 1910; 9 d\ 13 9, 3 <? n., 4 9 n. 



This species and the specimens here listed have been recently 

 treated in full by the authors. 48 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum R. and H. 



Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 9 , 3 d" n. 

 This recently described scarce species has been fully treated and 

 field notes on the specimens here listed have been given by us. 49 



48 These Proceedings, 1912. 

 " These Proceedings, 1912. 




1912. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Cycloptilum zebra i.R. and H.). 



Lake Worth, Fla., (Slosson); 1 cf. 



Miami, Fla., February 6, 1904; 1 cf. 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 9 . 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 4^,7 9 , 3 n. 



The authors have treated this species fully and have already 



discussed the specimens listed here. 50 



Nemobius fasciatus socius (So. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 <?. 



Nemobius ambitiosus Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 20, 28, 1910; 2 cf , 1 9 , 5 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 2(^,2 9 . 



The entire series was taken in the undergrowth of the pine woods. 



Nemobius cubensis Sauss. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; (macropterous) 3 d\ 3 9 ; 

 (brachypterous) 4 d\ 12 9 ; In. 



These specimens agree with the authors' conception of the species. 

 Saussure's description, although not fully adequate, is much more 

 satisfactory than many later descriptions of species of Nemobius. 

 The preponderance of brachypterous individuals in the present 

 series is probably due to the fact that these specimens were taken in 

 their natural environment and not attracted to light; in the latter 

 case individuals of this genus are almost always found to be macrop- 

 terous. Though the presence or absence of wings gives individuals 

 of this species a very different general appearance, close examination 

 fails to show the least difference in any other respect. 



All of the specimens here treated were taken in the high grass 

 growing on the everglades. 



Nemobius carolinus Sc. 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 9 . 



The single specimen referred to this species was taken with the 

 series of N. cubensis; it is brachypterous and exactly agrees in size 

 and coloration with specimens of that form of N. cubensis, though 

 easily separated by all the more important though less conspicuous 

 characters. 



Miogryllus saussurei (Sc). 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 &, 1 9,2^n,l 9 n. 

 Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 9 n. 



The individuals from Homestead were found under rubbish about 

 60 These Proceedings, 1912. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



a strawberry bed situated in a " pot-hole" in the pine woods, the 

 specimens from Key West were taken from under coquina boulders 

 and boards. 

 Gryllus firmus Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 5 c? n., 1 9 n.: November 15, 

 1911 (Englehardt) ; 1 9 n. [B. I.] 



Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 1 9 n. 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 c? n. 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 2 d\ 3 9,4 9 n. 



The adults in this series are very small for the present species 

 averaging 21.4 mm. (20 to 24 mm.) in length. The majority of the 

 specimens taken at Key West were found in or near their holes 

 situated in the short heavy grasses growing on the scant soil near 

 depressions. 



Gryllus rubens Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 2 <? . 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 2 9 n. 



The adults from Miami were captured in low grass growing in the 

 grounds of the Royal Palm Hotel. 



Gryllodes sigillatus (Walk.). 



Miami, Fla., March 27, 28, 1910; 1 d\ 1 9 . 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 17, 1910; 2 d\ 1 9 n. 

 Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 2 9 . 



The entire series here recorded was captured in cracks and crevices 

 about buildings. The species nourishes in or near human habita- 

 tions, and, although probably brought to southern Florida in goods 

 from the West Indies, it is now thoroughly established there. At 

 Key Vaca a large colony was found between boards piled for building 

 near the railroad station ; so active were the insects and so numerous 

 were the nymphs that in the collector's efforts to capture adults all 

 but two females escaped. 



Anaxipha pulicaria (Burmeister). 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 1910; 1 9 . 



We are using the above name provisionally for this species, following 

 Saussure in so doing, although we are not convinced that Gryllus 

 pulicarius 51 Burmeister, from Jamaica, based on a twelve-word 

 diagnosis, is the same as the present individual. There can be little 

 doubt, however, that the insect described by Saussure 52 under 

 Burmeister's name is the same as the present specimen. 



51 Handb. der Entom., II, Abth. II, pt, 1, p. 732, 1838. 



52 Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool, Orth., p. 371, pi. 7, fig. 1, 1874. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



The specimen before us was taken in short, heavy grasses growing 

 on the scant soil near a depression, where long-continued search failed 

 to reveal other individuals. 



Cyrtoxipha gundlachi 53 Sauss. 



Miami, Fla., March 20, 28, 1910; 2 d\ 3 9 , 1 n. 

 Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 d\ 3 n. 

 Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 9 . 

 Key Vaca, Fla., March 14, 1910; 1 cf , 2 9 . 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 26 d\ 18 9 : April 6, 1903 

 (Schwarz); 1 9 [U. S. N. M.]. 



This species varies appreciably in size in both sexes, while the 

 extent to which the caudal portion of the wings extends caudad of 

 the tegmina varies from one-half to four-fifths of the length of the 

 caudal femora. In all of the adults in the above extensive series 

 the tympanum of the cephalic face of the cephalic tibiae is distinctly 

 indicated. 



A single male from Punta Gorda, De Soto County, Fla., taken 

 November 17, 1911, by W. T. Davis on mangrove (B. I.), is also 

 before us. It is slightly smaller than the smallest of the present 

 series, but otherwise shows no differences. 



The series taken at Miami was captured by beating heavy foliage 

 in "jungle growth"; on the Keys the species was found not uncom- 

 mon on a great variety of bushes, vines and trees, many were beaten 

 from Ilex cassine, while numbers were heard and some few taken 

 from the foliage of the mangroves. 



The sound produced by the males of this species is very delicate 

 and high-pitched — a clear, tinkling note which is very pleasing. 



Hapithus quadratus Sc. 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 n: November 15, 1911 (Engle- 

 hardt); 1 n. [B. L] 



Long Key, Fla., March 13, 1910; 1 d\ 



Key West, Fla., March 15, 16, 1910; 3 d\ 2 9 . 



The adult specimens were all captured by beating low bushes, such 

 as Ilex cassine, and high plants, while the nymph taken at Miami was 

 found in the undergrowth of the pine woods. 



53 The record by the authors of C. delicalula Scudder, from Key West and 

 Miami (these Proceedings, 1905, p. 51), is an erroneous identification of the 

 present species. Since that date we have been able to examine, the typical 

 material of C. delicatula and ascertain its true relationship to the specimens in 

 hand. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Orocharis saulcyi (Gu6rin). 



Miami, Fla., March 28, 1910; 1 n. 

 Homestead, Fla., March 17-19, 1910; 2 n. 

 Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 cf, 1 9 , 3 n. 



The adults were taken on Key Largo in the twilight of the heavy 

 jungle growth, by vigorously beating the foliage of the lower limbs 

 of the trees and the tangled grape and other vines. 



During the winter months this species is one of the scarcest to be 

 found in southern Florida, constant search for it during several 

 winter collecting trips has resulted in the capture of but four adults. 

 Tafalisca lurida Walk. 



Capron, Fla., April 7, 21; 2 9 , 2 n. [U. S. N. M.] 

 Haulover, Fla.; 1 n. [U. S. N. M.] 

 Key Largo, Fla., March 18, 1910; 1 n. 

 Key West, Fla.; 1 n. [U. S. N. M.] 



The nymph from Key Largo was taken in the same manner and 

 situation as the specimens of Orocharis saulcyi from that locality. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



277 



STATISTICAL STUDIES ON VARIATION IN THE WING-LENGTH OF A 

 BUTTERFLY OF THE SUBFAMILY SATYRINJE. 



BY T. FUKUDA. 



As is well known, the distinction of sex, generation, or habitat in 

 any species of butterfly may sometimes be a definite cause of the 

 differences in size. The aim of the pre sent report is to determine 

 statistically the degree of such differences found under these cir- 

 cumstances. 



Material. 



Ypthima philomera var. argus', which I selected for the material 

 of this work, is a small butterfly of the subfamily Satyrinse commonly 

 found in Japan. Judging from my observations and breeding 

 experiments, this species most likely repeats its life-cycle three 

 times during one year, at least in all the warmer districts of this 

 country, the butterflies appearing in succession, April-May (first 

 generation), June-July (second generation), and August-October 

 (third generation). The details of the material are shown in Table I. 



Table I. 



Lot, 



I 



II 



III 



IV 



V 



VI 



Date. 



11-15, V, 1910 

 13-17, VII, " 

 20-24, IX, 

 20-24, VIII, 1909 

 28-30, VIII, 1910 

 19-22, VIII, " 



Locality. 



Kawanabe, Prov. Satsuma. 



Himeji, Prov. Harima. 



n a tt 



Tsumago, Prov. Shinano. 



All the individuals of one and the same lot were captured by 

 myself within an area about two miles in diameter. ' There is scarcely 

 any doubt that Lots I— III belong to the corresponding generations 

 of 1910, while Lots IV and V are most likely the representatives of 

 the third. Having come from a comparatively cold district, Lot 

 VI probably consists of the individuals of the second generation. 



1 Kawanabe, Prov. Satsuma, 20 miles south of Kagoshima, nearly at the 

 southern extremity of Kiushiu; Himeji, Prov. Harima, 35 miles west of Kobe; 

 Tsumago, Prov. Shinano, 60 miles northeast of Nagoya. 




278 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



The Method of Measurement. 



The method adopted in the measurement is as follows: the right 

 fore wing of the butterfly, carefully removed from the body, is put 

 upon the glass stage of a dissecting microscope and covered with 

 a thin plate of mica; the mirror of the microscope is arranged to 

 so reflect light from its surface as to make the outline of the wing 

 clear; then the length from the base of the wing to the farthest 

 point on its outer margin, without taking the length of the marginal 

 hairs into account (this point is always a little behind the anterior 

 angle), is measured with compasses from over the mica to the nearest 

 half -millimeter. 



The Differences Among the Means. 



Table II shows how the variants of each lot are distributed through 

 the classes, while in Table III are exhibited the means of measure- 

 ments, the standard deviations, and the coefficients of variation 

 with their probable errors. One may notice in these tables, but 

 more clearly in Table IV, how some fairly considerable differences 

 occur among the mean values of several measurements. These 

 differences are always great enough to be considered significant, as 

 they exceed three times the corresponding probable errors except 

 in one case only (a) where two groups of males from the same locality 

 and captured in the same season two successive years are to be 

 compared with each other. It might be supposed that some 

 intrinsic causes lying in the bodies of the animals must have had 

 influence in determining the wing-length of the butterflies; but 

 several external factors, too, e.g., the temperature, the quantity of 

 food, etc., working on the developing organisms surely have had 

 some important share in it. 




1912.] 



I 



II 



III 



III 



IV 



IV 



V 



VI 



VI 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 

 Table III. 



279 



Mean. 



19.527 

 18.155 

 17.360 

 16.944 

 17.717 

 17.050 

 17.789 

 18.637 

 18.116 



0.093 

 0.057 

 0.053 

 0.057 

 0.057 

 0.080 

 0.051 

 0.036 

 0.067 



Standard Devia- 

 tion. 



0.838 

 0.551 

 0.591 

 0.511 

 0.611 

 0.650 

 0.511 

 0.667 

 0.738 



0.066 

 0.041 

 0.037 

 0.041 

 0.040 

 0.057 

 0.036 

 0.025 

 0.047 



Coefficient of 

 Variability. 



4.29 

 3.03 

 3.40 

 3.01 

 3.45 

 3.81 

 2.87 

 3.58 

 4.07 



0.34 

 0.22 

 0.21 

 0.24 

 0.23 

 0.33 

 0.20 

 0.14 

 0.26 



Table IV. 



We can see (Lots I-III in Tables II, III, or b, c in Table IV) that 

 the length of the fore wings of the male butterflies diminishes grad- 

 ually as the season advances. 



That this species winters over as caterpillars was ascertained in 

 my breeding experiments, and that Lot I implies only the individuals 

 which had hibernated during their caterpillar stages is scarcely 

 doubtful, so I am inclined to attribute this difference (6) of the 

 wing-length between this lot and Lot II to some such cause 

 as mentioned by Standfuss, 2 i.e., the difference in the length of 

 the feeding period, which had happened to affect the developing 

 organisms. The same rule has probably held in Case c. In the 

 succeeding three cases, d-f, we can recognize how the length of the 

 fore wings of the butterflies, even if of the same sex and generation, 

 has the tendency to increase the more the latitude of their habitat 

 increases. 



Bachmetjew 3 has ascertained that the butterflies of this sub- 



2 Morgan, T. H., Experimental Zoology, 1907, pp. 24, 25. 

 J Experimented Entomologische Studien, II (1907). 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



family flying in Bulgaria, with a few exceptions, have greater wing- 

 expansion than those of the same species found in Germany or in 

 France. He attributes this to the difference of temperature. 

 We have several other instances concerning the size of the 

 butterflies of this subfamily diminishing gradually under compara- 

 tively high latitudes. All these instances are not in accordance 

 with my result. In g-i once more we meet with such an instance of 

 the differences in the wing-length as is opposed to the facts hitherto 

 commonly acknowledged and especially to the results of observations 

 made by Bachmetjew. On examining ten Bulgarian species of this 

 subfamily, he has concluded that the wing-expansion of the females 

 more or less exceeds that of the males. The case is quite the 

 reverse with Ypthima philomera var. argus, the males having on an 

 average longer fore wings than the females. It is true that this 

 species shows a sexual difference in the shape of the fore wings, 

 their anterior angles being a little more obtuse in females than in 

 males; but this difference is never so great that it can reverse the 

 situations of the two sexes. I cannot interpret the above-mentioned 

 discrepancies between the present results and those hitherto obtained 

 but to attribute them to the differences between the species. 



The Standard Deviations and the Coefficients of 



Variabilities. 



The standard deviations and the coefficients of variation do not 

 represent anything as distinct as the case of means. They are 

 fairly great, however, in Lot I, differing so much from those of Lot 

 II or III as to claim to be considered probably significant; thus: 



* the difference between Lots I and II 

 0.287 =■= 0.077 



a the difference between Lots I and III 

 0.247 * 0.076. 



C the difference between Lots I and II 

 1.26 * 0.40 



C the difference between Lots I and III 

 0.89 =*= 0.40 



If we call to mind that the individuals included in Lot I are such 

 as had distinctly longer caterpillar stages than in the other lots, 

 this fact may deserve our special notice. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



THE EXPERIMENTAL METHOD OF TESTING THE EFFICIENCY OF WARNING 



AND CRYPTIC COLORATION IN PROTECTING ANIMALS 



FROM THEIR ENEMIES. 



BY W. L. McATEE. 



Contents. 



Introduction 281 



Experiments with Invertebrates (chiefly Insects) 287 



Experiments with Vertebrates...! 289 



Fishes 289 



Amphibia 290 



In Countries other than the United States 290 



In the United States 291 



Toads 291 



Frogs 295 



Salamanders 296 



Reptiles 296 



Experiments in Asia 296 



Experiments in Europe 298 



Experiments in America 298 



Mammals 300 



Mixed Groups of Animals 301 



Birds 318 



Experiments in Europe 318 



Experiments in Africa 325 



Experiments in Asia 326 



Experiments in America 331 



Experiments by Judd and Beal 332 



Summary 356 



Introduction. 



The selectionist theories regarding the significance and the causes 

 of production of the so-called warning, mimicking, and cryptic 

 coloration long preceded a knowledge of the food preferences of 

 insectivorous animals sufficient to warrant such speculations. In 

 fact, this knowledge is still almost entirely lacking for many parts of 

 the world — including the Amazon valley, which is the home of the 

 brightly colored Heliconiid butterflies and their mimics that sug- 

 gested the mimicry theory to H. W. Bates. In 1861, Bates explained 

 the numerous cases of mimicry of the butterflies of this family by 

 butterflies and moths of at least five other families, by stating that 

 the Heliconiidse probably are unpalatable to insect enemies, and 

 that the others disguised in their dress share this immunity. 1 He 



1 Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond., XXIII, 1862, p. 510. 

 19 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



also proposed to explain cryptic resemblances, or the mimicry of 

 inanimate objects by natural selection. Four years later, A. R. 

 Wallace stated' 2 that he agreed entirely with Bates as to the cause of 

 mimicry, and cited many examples of the phenomenon from the 

 Malayan region. In 1867 the same author first gave a definite 

 theory 3 concerning the significance of the brilliant colors which are 

 now commonly referred to as warning colors. In 1870 4 he extended 

 the application of Bates' theory of cryptic and mimicking colors 

 and advanced the results of experiments in support of the theory of 

 warning colors. 



It is not necessary at this time to trace the later development of 

 the theory by Miiller, Dixey, Poulton, and others. Suffice it to say 

 that the original definite suggestion that conspicuous colors have 

 been developed to advertise disagreeable qualities was the result 

 of Wallace's cudgelling his brain at Darwin's instance, for an explana- 

 tion of the coloration of certain insect larva?, which obviously could 

 not be accounted for by sexual selection. The theory has since been 

 expanded to include conspicuous coloration in all groups of animals. 

 A certain insect smells badly to man ; is colored red and black, for 

 example, it is conspicuous and nasty to us, hence it must be to 

 insectivorous animals. Its striking color advertises its nauseous 

 qualities and it is avoided after experience; in other words, is pro- 

 tected. So goes the original theory. Although it has been expanded 

 to include all conspicuous forms, whether or not they are nauseous 

 to man, its supporters seemingly find it impossible entirely to forsake 

 the older anthropomorphic ground. Mimicry theories hold that a 

 palatable form gains protection by resembling one of the conspicuous 

 but nauseous ones, and that distasteful forms are mutually benefited 

 by resemblance. Each of these theories, it may be repeated, was 

 built up in the absence of evidence that the insects concerned were 

 actually distasteful or palatable as claimed. This was the principal 

 criticism made by the comparatively few who at the time dared 

 question the all-sufficiency of natural selection, and it stands to-day 

 the greatest obstacle to acceptance of the theories. 



This criticism spurred the supporters of the theory to sporadic 

 efforts to produce evidence in favor of their contentions. The 

 favorite method of securing such evidence has been by experimenting 

 with captive animals, and the principal body of alleged proof of the 



2 Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond., XXV, 1866, pp. 19-22. 



3 Proc. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1867, p. lxxxi. 



4 Contributions to the Theory of Natural Selection, 1870, Chap. III. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



distastefulness of certain insects and the palatability of others 

 consists of the results of experiments. The cry always is to test 

 theories under experimental conditions, but there are many things 

 which cannot be so tested. The very conditions of captivity and 

 the limited choice of food constitute abnormalities which cannot 

 fail to distort the food relations of most animals, and so modify the 

 results of experiments that they bear little or no analogy to natural 

 conditions. 



In experiments play is allowed to the fancy of the experimenter, 

 and the interpretation of facial and other expression of the subject 

 has often been given more weight than the actual result of the 

 experiment, that is, whether the insect was eaten or rejected. R. I. 

 Pocock 5 very frankly admits this, saying, "It is quite clear that the 

 plain record of an insect being eaten is no proof of its palatability. 

 Better evidence on this head is supplied by the behavior of the bird 

 towards it. After a little experience in the matter, I was able to 

 satisfy myself, at all events, as to the approximate correctness of my 

 interpretation of the bird's actions, and to judge thereby of the 

 comparative palatability of the insects they tasted." This is honest 

 confession at any rate, but the writer must take issue with this 

 author as to the value of interpretation of behavior. "The plain 

 record of an insect being eaten," which he holds up to scorn, may not 

 show palatability, but shows something much more definite, namely, 

 that the insect is acceptable food. Palatability in the sense used 

 by some of the experimenters is entirely a figment of the imagination. 

 This is proved by the -many cases of refusal in captivity of insects 

 which are eaten under natural conditions, and by the misinterpreta- 

 tion of the following among other features of the behavior of caged 

 birds and other animals. 



Wiping the bill or mouth: If a bird wipes its bill, or a lizard or 

 frog its mouth, when it is being experimented with, the action is 

 almost always credited as a sign of distaste. Yet nothing is more 

 common than to see wild birds wiping their beaks across branches or 

 other objects. It occurs at all times, apparently is often done in a 

 purely mechanical way, and certainly has no essential connection 

 with the taking of food or perception of tastes. 



Dropping and picking up or in any way manipulating the prey 

 is another thing usually taken as evidence of unpalatability, but 

 nothing could be more at variance with conclusions drawn from 



5 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1911, p. 810. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



natural behavior. It is highly characteristic of many birds to 

 thresh their prey about, and this is often continued until the object 

 is broken in many pieces, which are separately swallowed. E. B. 

 Poulton considered (P. Z. S., 1887, p. 219) that a pupa would have 

 been swallowed whole if palatable, but as it was crushed and the 

 contents eaten it must have been unpalatable; and Weismann 

 (Studies in the Theory of Descent, 1882, Vol. I, p. 341) thinks it readily 

 conceivable that a certain caterpillar may not be unpalatable to 

 lizards, because they swallow it whole, whilst it is perhaps distasteful 

 to birds, because they must hack and tear it in order to swallow it. 

 As a matter of fact, it is habitual for woodpeckers and jays to peck 

 open pupse and extract the contents, and smaller birds, as the chicka- 

 dees and titmice, not only use this method when attacking pupse, 

 but for large larva? also. Many birds hold the food between their 

 feet and hammer it vigorously before eating, and others accomplish 

 the same end by repeatedly picking it up and throwing it down. 

 At least one experimenter, Jenner Weir, recognized such actions as 

 natural, for he says, "All perfect Lepidoptera apparently require 

 preparation before they are swallowed by birds; they are taken 

 between the mandibles, shaken and bruised for a minute or two, and 

 generally have the wings removed before they are eaten." 6 In many 

 experiments, however, this same action is reckoned . as a sign of 

 disgust, if not as an actual rejection. Lizards habitually chew large 

 prey before swallowing, snakes chew it or crush it by constriction; 

 all of these actions are simply part of the normal preparation of food 

 for deglutition, and in no sense of the word evidences of distaste. 



Hesitancy and caution are usually translated as distaste. Does 

 a bird of prey dislike the mouse it holds by a talon on its perch for 

 hours at a time; does a butcherbird dislike the prey it impales on a 

 thorn or wedges in a crotch for future reference? Does a cat play 

 with a mouse because she hesitates to swallow so distasteful a 

 creature? What animal does not employ dilatory tactics in feeding 

 when it is not uncomfortably hungry? This subject naturally leads 

 up to that of disregard, which may be looked upon as hesitancy 

 prolonged. 



Disregard may arise from many conditions, unrelated to the 

 palatability of the food, such as varying appeal of the food to the 

 captive animal according to its state of activity or health, or degree 

 of hunger; or such as the size of the object offered, presence of the 



8 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1869, p. 22. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



experimenter, or other disturbing elements. Disregard is a frequent 

 phenomenon in experiments with birds of mixed feeding habits, 

 which are most frequently used because more easily provided for 

 in captivity. These birds have no great natural fondness for insects, 

 and certainly not for adults of the order — Lepidoptera — most 

 frequently used in the experiments. The insignificance of disregard 

 is shown throughout Frank Finn's experiments, in the accounts of 

 which (Journ. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, 1895, 1896, 1897), very common 

 expressions concerning cases in which certain butterflies were not 

 eaten in the presence of the experimenter are: "The butterflies 

 were all gone later on," "Next day all the butterflies were gone," 

 etc. In fact, more than 64 per cent, of the butterflies which were 

 left in the cages were eaten in the absence of the experimenter, and 

 more than 77 per cent, of those eaten belonged to the "nauseous" 

 group. The experiments of S. D. Judd (see pp. 332-352) show that 

 disregard bears no particular relation either to acceptances or to 

 rejections, and certainly none to natural preferences. Thus, of the 

 three categories of insects offered to the birds, namely, "warningly 

 colored" insects, others "specially defended," and "non-protected" 

 forms, practically the same proportions (17 to 19 per cent.) were 

 rejected, while the percentage disregarded varied from 3 to 11. 



In Poulton's tabulations of experiments (P. Z. S., 1887) disregard 

 is usually reckoned practically the same as a refusal. Indeed, the 

 original tendency was to consider that disregard showed much 

 greater distaste than any result following trial, for it is pointed out 

 (pp. 193, 194) that the brilliant colors of caterpillars to be of value 

 must generally prevent even trial, because of the fatal consequences 

 to these larvae of very slight wounds. However, Poulton states that 

 out of thirty-seven cases in the "nauseous" group, fifteen were 

 exposed to hungry animals, other food being withheld, and of the 

 fifteen only three remained untasted. Of these two have been 

 shown to be eaten under certain circumstances (p. 225). Poulton 

 estimates disregard properly in one case, that of Lasiocampa querciis 

 larvse. These were disregarded by birds and lizards, and the com- 

 ment on the evidence is, "Neutral as far as the adult larva is con- 

 cerned" (p. 209). As a matter of fact, disregard is no more of neutral 

 significance in this case than in the fifteen others in which disregard 

 or disregard plus acceptance is the sole evidence upon which proof 

 of distastefulness is claimed. The fact that nine of the eighteen 

 insects of the "unpalatable" group are known to be eaten by wild 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Julie 



British birds further suggests the unreliability of disregard as a 

 guide to natural tastes. 



In consequence of the too great fondness of some experimenters 

 for psychological deductions, the writer, in judging experiments, has 

 separated "disregards" for the reasons above stated, and has taken 

 cognizance only of rejections that resulted from actual trial. But a 

 rejection has been credited for each time the experimenter says the 

 object was refused, even if it was eaten later. This is certainly as 

 great a concession in favor of the experiments as can be expected 

 from one who believes not at all in their utility. Tabulations have 

 been made anew (whenever possible) from the detailed accounts of 

 the experiments. It cannot be hoped that these are free from error, 

 but it may properly be assumed that they are approximately correct. 



The earlier experiments especially are characterized by the average 

 small number of tests of the various insects. For this reason, single 

 or a very few acceptances or refusals have been held to prove the 

 palatability or otherwise of a certain form. Thus in the eyes of 

 those who had faith in experiments, results piled up in a really 

 beautiful way. It is not out of order, however, to point out in 

 advance that there are many inconsistencies between the various 

 sets of experiments and that these show that conclusions based 

 upon a few trials are extremely liable to be overturned. 



An interesting case showing the danger of basing conclusions upon 

 a single rejection is given by Jenner Weir (Trans. Ent. Soc. London, 

 1869, p. 22): "The imago of Spilosoma menthastri .... was tasted 

 by the reed bunting, but not relished, and soon dropped; the .... 

 bird, however, attracted by the fluttering insect, returned to it, and 

 ultimately swallowed it." If the insect had been taken out, the 

 single rejection would, of course, have stood as the reed bunting's 

 record. A case illustrating the possibilities of single acceptances or 

 rejections is R. I. Pocock's experiment on "the distastefulness of 

 Anosia plexippus" (Nature, 87, 1911, pp. 484-485). A specimen was 

 offered to eleven species of birds and refused a total of thirteen times 

 by them, before it was offered to a tinamou, which swallowed it at 

 once. Reversing the experiment thus might have given an exactly 

 opposite impression of the palatability of this insect. 



In the following pages the expressions accepted, rejected, and 

 disregarded are often abbreviated to A, R, and D, respectively. In 

 general, the experiments are reviewed in groups determined by the 

 classes of animals tested. 




1912.j natural sciences of philadelphia. 287 



Experiments with Invertebrates (Chiefly Insects). 



Since Professor E. B. Poult on, 7 the most prominent supporter 

 of the theories of warning and mimicking coloration, has come to 

 the conclusion, from proper data — that is, records of insects col- 

 lected with naturally captured prey — that predaceous insects in 

 general are enemies of the "specially protected" groups, it is not 

 necessary to review experiments relating to the food preferences of 

 insects. It is worthy of note, however, that some of these experi- 

 ments have often been quoted as affording support to the prevailing 

 theories. Poulton's latest conclusion is proof, therefore, that even 

 the ardent believers in the experimental method admit that an 

 "ounce" of proof as to natural behavior is worth a "pound" of 

 experimental evidence. 



An annotated bibliography of experiments upon invertebrates is 

 given for the benefit of those who may desire to consult the original 

 accounts. Those entries marked with an asterisk denote experi- 

 ments which were not undertaken with a view to testing protective 

 adaptations. 



Barlow, Edward. A short note on the Food-insects of the Mantis 



Heirodula bipapilla Serv. Proc. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, December, 



1894 (1895), pp. 138-139. 

 Ate Musca, Lucilia, and its own species, and killed but did not eat 



the Hemiptera, Cydopetia and Physomerus. 

 Belt, Thomas. The Naturalist in Nicaragua. London, 1888. 

 Experiments with Heliconii. "A large species of spider (Nephila) 



.... used to drop them out of its web when I put them into it. 



Another spider that frequented flowers seemed to be fond of 



them, and I have already mentioned a wasp that caught them to 



store its nest with" (p. 317). 

 Butler, A. G. Remarks upon certain Caterpillars, etc., which are 



unpalatable to their enemies. Trans. Ent. Soc. Land., 1869, 



pp. 27-29. 

 Spiders (Ereiba diadema and Lycosa) rejected larva? of Abraxas 



grossidariata and Halia wauaria (p. 28). 

 Embody, G. C. [Food of fresh-water Amphipods in aquaria]. Son- 



derabdruck aus Internat. Rev. d. ges. Hydrobiologie u. Hydro- 



graphie, Biol. Suppl., Ill, 1911 (1912), pp. 4-6. 

 Freshly killed isopods, snails, earthworms, tadpoles, and bits of 



fish, and beef were eaten, but planaria were refused. 

 [Food of Hydra] p. 31. 



Young Hyalella and Eucrangonyx were eaten. 

 Marshall, G. A. K., and Poulton, E. B. Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 



1902. 



7 See Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1906, pp. 363, 364, 401, 403, and 408. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Experiments on Mantidse in Natal and Rhodesia (G. A. K. M.), 

 pp. 297-313. 



[Summary of these experiments] (E. B. P.), pp. 313-315. 



Conclusions from experiments on Mantidse (E. B. P.), pp. 315-319. 



"We may safely conclude that outside the Acrseinse, and doubt- 

 fully the Danainse, Mantidse devour butterflies very freely, 

 the species with warning colors as well as the others, and that 

 they are far more indiscriminating than the majority of insect- 

 eaters" (p. 316). "But Mr. Marshall's experiments yielded 

 plenty of evidence of the positive refusal and acceptance, as it 

 were, under protest of Acrseinse, so that there can be no doubt 

 of their distastefulness to this class of enemy" (p. 317). 



Despite this conclusion, the fact remains that these Mantidse ate 

 more Acrseinse than they rejected upon trial, and rejected no 

 Danainse. It should be noted, furthermore, that many of the 

 rejections occurred in the last day or two of the life of the 

 various individual mantids when no food whatever was taken. 



Experiments on spiders in the Karkloof (G. A. K. M.), pp. 319-322. 

 Results of experiments on spiders and the earlier experiments on 

 Mantidse : one probable meaning of tenacity of life in distasteful 

 insects (G. A. K. M.) pp. 322-325, (E. B. P.) pp. 325-328. 



"Experiments have convinced me that both spiders and mantises 

 have no appreciation of warning colors" (p. 322). "It is quite 

 probable .... that certain species of spiders, together with 

 mantides and other predaceous insects, will be found among the 

 chief, perhaps the chief, non-parasitic enemies of aposematic 

 insects" (p. 327). 

 Marshall, G. F. L., and de Niceville, L. The Butterflies of India, 

 Burmah and Ceylon, Calcutta, 1882-83. 



"Mr. de Niceville has experimented with the carnivorous Mantis 

 on many of the butterflies believed to be offensive to birds, and 

 he has found A. violce is the only butterfly which all the species 

 of Mtintis he has experimented with refuse to eat" (p. 318). 

 This is all there is on the experiments. 

 Meisner, Otto. [Food of an Ant-lion and a Clerid in confinement.] 

 Ent. Bl. Nurnberg, 5, Nr. 9, September 20, 1909, pp. 181 and 182. 



A larva of the ant-lion {Myrmeleon) which had been fed only 

 upon flies and caterpillars for a long time, afterwards rejected 

 ants. A Clerus formicarius ate every Adalia bipunctata which 

 got into its cage. 



*Patch, E. M. Predaceous Beetles and hibernating Insects. Bid. 

 148, Maine Agr. Exp. Sfa., November, 1907, pp. 273-276. 

 Pterostichus lucublandus was tested with numerous specimens of 

 Corimelama pidicaria, Cosmopepla carnifex, Lygus pratensis, 

 and one Serica vespertina, all of which were eaten. Staphy- 

 linidse were tested with the Corimelama, Lygus, Cosmopepla and 

 cutworms with same result. 



Peckham, E. G. [Food of spiders and ants in captivity.] Occas. 

 Papers Nat. Hist. Soc. Wis., I, 1889, pp. 107, 109, 110. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



Attidae devoured flies, gnats, larvae and other spiders, but would 

 not touch ants. Synageles picata and Synemosyna formica are 

 always hungry for gnats, but will not eat ants (p. 107). Ants 

 devoured an ant-like spider, Herpyllus, which was placed in a 

 vial with them (p. 109). 

 *Peckham, G. W. and E. G. The Sense of Sight in Spiders with 

 some observations on the Color Sense. Trans. Wis. Acad. Sci., 

 X, 1894-5, pp. 231-261. 



Remarks on food taken in captivity, but nothing in relation to 

 protective adaptations of prey. 

 Plateau, Felix. Observations et experiences sur les moyens de 

 protection de l'Abraxas grossulariata L. Mem. de la. Soc. Zool. 

 de France, VII, 1894, pp. 375-392, 3 figs. 



Experiences avec Araignees, pp. 385-388. 



Spiders, Amaurobius ferox, and Agalena labyrinthica would not 

 touch the larva of Abraxas. Tegenaria domestica attacked the 

 larva, but could not pierce its tough skin. Both Tegenaria and 

 Epeira diadema ate imagos, while Agalena rejected them. 



Experiences avec Carabes et Dytiques, pp. 388-390. 



Carabus auratus, Dytiscus- marginatus, and D. dimidiatus freely 

 devoured Abraxas larvae. 

 *Pocock, R. I. Notes upon the habits of some living Scorpions. 

 Nature, 48, 1893, pp. 104-107. 



They ate cockroaches, blue-bottle flies, etc., in captivity. 

 Pocock, R. I. Further notes and observations on the instincts of 

 some common English Spiders. Nature, 49, 1893, pp. 61-63. 



It was found that the prey of Agalena labyrinthica consists largely 

 of b^es. A Bombus put in a web was enshrouded before it was 

 killed; a blue-bottle fly was pounced upon at once, while a 

 drone-fly (Eristalis) was cautiously attacked and killed, but not 

 enshrouded. 

 *Porter, J. B. The habits, instincts, and mental powers of Spiders, 

 genera, Argiope and Epeira. Amer. Journ. of Psychology, 17, 

 1906, pp. 306-357. 



Experiments with food, but not in relation to protective adapta- 

 tions, are described on pp. 334-338. 



Experiments with Vertebrates. 



fishes. 



In a paper entitled, "An Experimental Field-study of Warning 

 Coloration in Coral-reef Fishes," 8 Prof. Jacob Reighard records a 

 variety of experiments to determine the significance of colors and 

 flavors of prey to gray snappers (Lutianus griseus). The predaceous 

 fishes were free and under normal conditions. The common prey 



8 Papers from the Tortugas Laboratory, Carnegie Institution, Vol. II, 1908, 

 No. 9, pp. 257-325. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jime ; , 



of this species at the time of the tests was found to be the sardine 

 (Atherina'laticeps), a silvery fish that could readily be stained any 

 color. A large number of Atherina stained vermilion, yellow, 

 green, blue, or purple were eaten practically as rapidly as fed. Others 

 dyed and treated with formic acid, formaldehyde, red pepper, quinine, 

 ammonia, or carbon bisulphid were taken with equal readiness. 

 Atherina were made unpalatable, however, by sewing in their mouths 

 bits of the tentacles of medusa?, and an association of this unpala- 

 tability with a color (red) was established in the individuals of a 

 colony of 150 snappers. The association was found to persist at 

 least five weeks. 



The brightly colored fishes of the coral reefs were then offered to 

 the snappers, and they attempted to capture all offered, and actually 

 did take all but one species, of which the single large specimen 

 offered escaped. The species taken were of a variety of colors, 

 including colors and patterns considered as typically warning. In 

 several species " conspicuousness is combined with unpleasant 

 attributes in the form of defensive spines, the typical warning com- 

 bination, yet these fish were all instantly taken" (p. 303). 



It was further found "that the gray snapper discriminates with 

 great rapidity and delicacy between the various possible food ele- 

 ments of its environment, which are not conspicuously different 

 from each other," thus proving that the bright colors of the reef 

 fishes would be unnecessary even were their possessors unpalatable- 



Hence "the conclusion is reached that the conspicuousness of 

 coral-reef fishes, since it is not a secondary sexual character and has 

 no necessary meaning for protection, aggression, or as warning, is 

 without biological significance" (p. 320). 



AMPHIBIA. 



In Countries Other than the United States. 



Experiments dealing chiefly with Amphibia are few. Those of 

 Poulton with Hyla 9 are cited in another place. A. G. Butler, 

 Eltringham, Plateau, and Finn also record short experiments with 

 animals of this class. Butler published 10 the fact that he had found 

 the larvae of Abraxas grossulariata , Halia loauaria, and a sawfly, all 

 fed upon gooseberry, to be distasteful to frogs (and lizards). He 

 asks: "May it not be possible that the plant transmits some pecu- 



*Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1887, pp. 269-274. 

 l0 Ent. Monthly Mag. 5, 1808, pp. 131-132. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



liar acid to the larvae which feed upon it, such as to cause their 

 rejection as food by small reptiles, etc.?" 



Plateau found that Rana temporaria and Triton punctatus rejected, 4 

 while Triton alpestris disregarded the larvae of Abraxas. 11 Eltringham 

 cites a very few tests made with a salamander. The animal accepted 

 earthworms and honey bees, and disregarded larvae of Pieris 

 brassicce. 1 '- Finn found that the Indian bull-frog (Rana tigrina) 13 - 

 took all butterflies offered to it, except two Danais chrysippus, of 

 Avhich species it ate one. 



In the United States. 



A number of experiments upon Amphibia have been performed in 

 the United States. These are discussed in two groups, those on 

 toads and those on frogs. 



Toads. — In company with Dr. A. K. Fisher, the writer once 

 attempted to give a toad (Bufo lentiginosus) his fill of hymenopterous 

 food. This occurred on Plummer's Island, Md., about 1905. Honey 

 bees and wasps of the genera Polistes, Sceliphron, and Vespa were 

 captured, their wings were clipped, and they were put down so that 

 they would crawl in front of the toad, which was partially domesti- 

 cated about the cabin and was not much disturbed by the move- 

 ments of humans. The toad took every insect offered, although at 

 times he showed considerable but ludicrous signs of discomfort. Not 

 less than 30, and perhaps as many as 40 Hymenoptera were taken by 

 this animal in about an hour. He finally left the spot, apparently 

 to get away from a locality characterized by such extremely spicy 

 food, which nevertheless he was apparently unable to refuse. 



In another experiment performed by the writer at the same locality, 

 on August 6, 1911, another toad was also fed Polistes, Pelopceus, and 

 another stinging wasp, none of which was refused. A sphinx moth, 

 a small white moth, several ants and flies also were taken. The 

 toad attempted to eat a katydid (Cyrtophyllus perspicillatus) , but 

 found it too large. A small Heterocampa larva, colored green and 

 red, was eaten, and then a Julus was put before him. As soon as 

 it began to crawl he seized it by one end and, not getting a good hold, 

 ejected it. It then crawled over his head. This might be construed 

 by some as evidence of dislike, but I think that if the Julus had been 

 fairly seized it would have gone down. At any rate the case well 



11 Mem. de la Soc. Zool. de France, VII, 1894, pp. 383, 384. 



12 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1909, pp. 473, 474. 

 i3 Joum. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, 66, 1897 (1898), p. 533. 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



illustrates the danger of drawing conclusions from scanty experi- 

 menting, for stomach examinations show Julus to be a favorite food 

 with toads. A. H. Kirkland says in his valuable paper on the 

 economic value of the toad: 14 "Myriapods form a constant article 

 of diet for the toad. Species of the genus Julus were present in the 

 majority of the stomachs examined, the largest number found in a 

 single stomach being seventy-seven. These creatures form 10 per 

 cent, of the food for the season." 



Mr. Kirkland's examinations of stomachs serve to check another 

 set of experiments which is claimed to show that squash bugs (Anasa 

 tristis) are seldom eaten by toads. The account of these experiments 

 by C. M. Weed and Albert F. Conradi is as follows: 



"The common toad has been generally considered an enemy of 

 the squash bug, being frequently referred to in this connection in 

 articles concerning the pest. We made a large number of observa- 

 tions on this phase of the subject, the most interesting result being 

 the discovery that the odor given off by the bugs will actually kill 

 toads if confined in a small open vessel, such as a wide-mouthed 

 bottle. Some of these experiments as recorded in a published letter 

 by Mr. Conradi are as follows: 15 When a squash-bug nymph of the 

 fifth stage was suddenly introduced into a half-pint, open, wide- 

 mouthed bottle containing a half-grown, live toad, so that the 

 batrachian would get the full effects of the pungent fumes secreted 

 by the bug, the toad was thrown into a temporary stupor, the effect 

 being similar to that of chloroform. As the number of bugs was 

 increased, the effect on the toad was increased. When as many as 

 seven bugs were introduced, the toad fell into a profound stupor, from 

 the effects of which it died in the course of twenty-four hours. 



"On September 8, an adult toad that had been kept in the labora- 

 tory vivarium with a scant food supply for several clays, was placed 

 in a quart jar of the same construction as the one mentioned above, 

 and eight bugs were introduced; these bugs, however, had been so 

 much disturbed previously that the source of the pungent secretion 

 had been temporarily exhausted. The toad hesitatingly devoured 

 three, after which she would remove with her front feet every speci- 

 men that made an attempt to ascend the wall of her enclosure; but 

 these bugs were not eaten. The toad was then transferred to another 

 jar of the same size and construction, and eight bugs were suddenly 



14 Bui. 46, Hatch Exp. Sta., 1897, p. 15. 



"Science, N. S., Vol. XIV, No. 360, November 22, 1901, pp. 816, 817. See 

 also Science, N. S., Vol, XIX, No. 479, March 4, 1904, pp. 393, 394. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



introduced from the squash leaf so that the animal would get the 

 first and fullest effects of the odor ; the result was that the toad went 

 through a series of contortions followed by a short period of stupor 

 similar to that mentioned before. Upon recovery the toad was 

 again removed to the vivarium, where it now lives in partial hiber- 

 nation. 



"A young, red-spotted salamander was affected and killed as 

 easily as the half-grown toad, while for the common field frog a 

 greater number of bugs were required to bring about similar effects, 

 the frogs also being killed. Many experiments with snakes were 

 tried, but no ill effects from the secretion of the bugs were apparent. 



"The odor that the bug secretes is contained in a clear, slightly, 

 greenish liquid expelled from the extremity of the alimentary canal; 

 when it comes in contact with the air the odor is given off almost 

 instantaneously while the liquid remains to evaporate. 



"Further observations showed that toads in confinement would 

 eat squash bugs when very hungry, but we do not think that toads 

 ordinarily devour many of the pests." 16 



It is most obvious that the conditions of these experiments are 

 never even faintly simulated under natural conditions. The con- 

 clusions in the last paragraph, being based on the results of the 

 experiments, are therefore unwarranted. Moreover, they do not 

 agree with the statements of other observers relating to the habits 

 of the toad under normal conditions. Kirkland found Anasa tristis 

 in collected stomachs, 17 as did also Judd and the writer. 



Kirkland briefly records an experiment of his own as follows: 



"The writer once confined for study a large toad in a shaded 

 out-of-door box filled with damp earth. To provide suitable and 

 sufficient food for it was quite a task until an entirely satisfactory 

 expedient suggested itself. A hard bread-crust was soaked in 

 molasses and placed in the cage. Bees, wasps, ants, flies, and beetles 

 came to this bait, and it was most interesting to watch the toad 

 seize the flying insects, often before they had alighted on the bread. 

 Stinging insects, bees, wasps, etc., when swallowed by the toad 

 apparently produced uncomfortable sensations for a short time. 

 Fish-worms when captured by the toad often prove too much to be 

 swallowed at once, and when this is the case the fore limbs are brought 



16 "The Squash Bug," Bull. 89, New Hampshire Agric. Exp. Sta., February, 

 1902, pp. 21-23. 



17 Bui. 46, Hatch Exp. Sta., 1897, p. 26. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



into use to force the unfortunate worm into the capacious gullet 

 of its captor." 18 



In this connection we may quote C. F. Hodge, iy who, in giving 

 instructions as to the use of toads as insect catchers in houses, says: 

 "Sugar solutions should not be used [as bait] on account of the 

 danger to honey bees which a toad will take in great numbers despite 

 their stings." Hodge quotes 20 a feeding test by Miss E. M. Foskett, 

 the insect used being Macrodactylus subspinosus. Miss Foskett 

 says: "One day I gathered a quantity of rose bugs in a tin box, 

 sat down in the shade beside my queer pet and began feeding bugs 

 to him. At first I did not count, but finding his appetite so good, 

 I started to count. When I had counted over eighty bugs and the 

 toad showed no signs of wishing to conclude his meal, I picked him 

 up. .... Previous to my beginning to count, he had taken 

 anywhere from ten to twenty bugs. He was quite a large toad, but 

 the bugs were large, too, and very 'scratchy.'" 



The American Sportsman (Vol. 3, No. 2, October 11, 1873, p. 23) 

 reports a series of experiments with toads by Dr. Thomas Hill. 

 This account does not have a thoroughgoing appearance of verity, 

 but this may be not a reflection on the experiments themselves, but 

 upon the reporting. It is said a toad ate "yellow-striped" locusts, 

 earthworms, and at one meal twenty-three squash bugs and ninety- 

 four larvse of Pygcera menistra [Datana ministra]. 



C. V. Riley briefly states 21 the results of offering larva? of Anosia 

 plexippus to various animals, as follows: "Prompted by ... . 

 experiments made in England, I was led to make similar ones with 

 our gayly colored Archippus larva, and the result fully accords with 

 that obtained by Mr. Weir, for neither turkeys, chickens, toads, nor 

 snakes would touch it." 



Included with some notes on the Florida chameleon (Anolis 

 principalis), Dr. S. Lockwood records 22 an observation upon captive 

 toads. Two of these animals ate ; respectively, three and two potato 

 beetles (Leptinotarsa decemlineata) , after which they would take no 

 more. Dr. Lockwood then remarks: "It was specially observable 

 of the one which had swallowed the three spearmen, despite the 

 grotesque gravity of his demeanor, that there was a certain dolorous 



18 L.c, p. 11. 



19 Nature Study Leaflet, Biol. Ser. I, Worcester, Mass., 1898, p. 11. 



20 L. c, p. 10. 



21 Third Ann. Rep. on the Insects of Missouri, 1871, p. 148. 

 32 Am. Nat., 10, 1876', p. 8. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



air about him, as of one suffering from an overdose of Doryphora.. 

 Though kept some two weeks with no other food, neither Bufo would 

 touch a spearman again." 



No better illustration could be asked of the misleading character 

 of experimental results nor, it may be added, of the highly imagina- 

 tive conclusions drawn therefrom. Notwithstanding the "dolorous 

 air" of these toads by reason of potato-beetle diet, the fact remains 

 that toads habitually feed on potato beetles. Tenney, 23 Riley, 24 

 Kirkland, 25 Garman, 26 and Chittenden 27 among others record toads 

 as enemies of potato beetles. The writer has found the remains of 

 no fewer than twelve Leptinrfarsa decemlineata in a single casting 

 of a toad. 



Frogs. — In an article entitled, ''Habit Formation in Frogs," 28 

 A. A. Schaeffer says: "Individuals of three different species of 

 frogs, Rana clamata, R. sylvatica, and R. virescens learned to avoid 

 disagreeable objects, such as hairy caterpillars, in from four to seven 

 trials or possibly less. Such habits persisted for at least ten days, 

 but this point was not thoroughly tested. 



A Rana clamata formed a habit of avoiding earthworms treated 

 with chemicals in two trials. This habit persisted perfectly for only 

 a short time, covering five trials in about twenty-two hours. The 

 habit persisted somewhat imperfectly for five days. After an electric 

 stimulus had been applied, earthworms were not eaten for seven days, 

 although mealworms were eaten" (p. 334). 



These observations point to the conclusion that any color may 

 be regarded as warning, provided a sufficiently disagreeable impres- 

 sion becomes associated with it. 



Another experimenter, Charles W. Hargitt, was led to doubt the 

 quick formation of such associations by Hyla, as is shown by his 

 comments on the behavior of a tree frog toward Hymenoptera. In 

 food taking, he says: "Hyla behaves quite similarly to others of 

 its kind. It seems not to notice any except moving objects. A 

 spider may remain quietly in a given part of the cage for hours or 

 days undisturbed. If it assume an active attitude it is almost 

 certain to be taken very promptly. It is thus with any prey. The 

 insects most commonly supplied were flies, small beetles, grass- 



23 Amer. Nat., 5, 1871, pp. 170, 171. 



24 Fourth Mo. Rep., 1872, p. 16, and in many other publications. 



25 Bui. 46, Hatch Agr. Exp. Sta., 1897, p. 25. 



26 Bui. 91, Ky. Agr. Exp. Sta., 1901, p. 66. 



27 Circ. 87, U. S. Bur, Ent., 1907, p. 12. 



2S Journ. An. Behavior., Vol. 1, No. 5, Sept.-Oct., 1911, pp. 309-335. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



hoppers, spiders, etc. On one occasion a small wasp was released 

 in the cage and at once began to buzz about or run up the sides of 

 the cage actively. It was but a few moments ere a specimen leaped 

 eagerly and captured the prey. Then a most interesting performance 

 took place. No sooner was the wasp seized than it was whipped 

 into the mouth, and in turn stung the frog; the frog in turn showed a 

 very lively appreciation of that fact, and made an apparent effort 

 to eject the creature; but the process of ingestion had gone too far 

 and deglutition was completed without further ado, nor did the 

 frog show the least further sign of distress. On another day the 

 operation was repeated and very much after the fashion of the 

 preceding. It may be doubted whether Amphibia show any particu- 

 lar discrimination based on that type of experience." 29 



Salamanders. — Albert M. Reese, in a paper on the "Food and 

 Chemical Reactions of the Spotted Newt, Diemyctylus viridescens," 

 says that the animals show no difference in reaction toward bits of 

 raw meat and earthworms nor to the juices from these substances. 30 



A specimen of hellbender (Cryptobranchus allegheniensis) which 

 ejected remains of a crawfish soon after capture, refused to eat any 

 of these animals placed in its aquarium later. 31 



Reptiles. 



Experiments in Asia. 



Among Frank Finn's many experimental contributions to the 

 theory of natural selection are two which deal with the food taken 

 by lizards. The first 32 deals with the Indian lizard (Calotes versi- 

 color), both captive and free individuals of which were offered a 

 variety of adult Lepidoptera. The results of feedings of the free and 

 confined individuals agree very well except in the case of butterflies 

 of the genus Evplcea. The record for these insects with lizards in a 

 cage is A 4 Rl, and with those unconfined, Al R4. Species of 

 Danais, Delias eucharis, and Papilio aristolochia> were freely eaten, 

 and Finn concludes: "The behavior of these reptiles certainly does 

 not appear to afford support to the belief that the butterflies, at any 

 rate, usually considered nauseous, are distasteful to them" (p. 48). 



The second series of experiments we refer to are reported in 



2 "Behavior and Color Changes of Tree Frogs," Journal of Animal Behavior, 

 Vol 2 No. 1, Jan.-Feb., 1912, pp. 53, 54. 



° r^ urn - Animal Behavior, Vol. 2, No. 3, May- June, 1912, p. 207. 

 » Oconomowoc," Forest and Stream, 8, No. 20, June 21, 1S77, p. 320. 

 *-Journ. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, 65, 1896 (1897), pp. 42-48. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Natural Science, December, 1892. 33 They deal chiefly with the East 

 African lizards, Mabuia striata and Hemidactylus mabuia. Several 

 presumably distasteful insects were refused by these species. They 

 refused wood lice also, which were eaten, however, by Gerrhosaurus 

 major. 



Experiments to determine the tastes of Calotes were also per- 

 formed by R. C. Punnett in Ceylon. 34 Punnett concludes that the 

 lizard tested (in confinement) by him showed no discrimination in 

 the choice of various adult Lepidoptera offered. "The presumably 

 distasteful Danais was eaten before the presumably palatable 

 Euschema or Mijcalesis, and the so-called distasteful Euplcea was 

 taken before the supposedly palatable Junonia iphita of not very 

 dissimilar coloration. Nor was any hesitation manifested towards 

 Papilio aristolochice with its postulated evil taste and marked warning 

 coloration" (p. 13). Punnett also found the larvae of the last-named 

 insect as well as an adult Danais plexippus were eaten by another 

 lizard (Lyriocephalus). "From such experiments as these one can 

 hardly fail to draw the conclusion that Calotes as well as Lyriocephalus 

 will readily eat anything in the way of butterflies that they come 

 across. Nor is this surprising, in view of the fact that such noxious 

 creatures as the large ant {CEcophylla smaragdina) and hairy cater- 

 pillars constitute a considerable proportion of the contents of their 

 stomachs. They certainly do not appear to exercise that nice 

 discrimination with regard to butterflies, which is necessary for the 

 establishment of mimicking forms on the theory of natural selection" 



(p. 13). 



Lieut. -Col. Neville Manders also performed experiments with 

 lizards 35 in Ceylon, using the following species: Calotes versicolor, 

 C. ophiomachus, C. nigrilabris, C. zeylanica, and Ceratophora stoddarti. 

 The last two species are smaller than the others and would not try 

 to eat butterflies either when caged or free. The experiments with 

 free specimens of the other three species resulted as follows: Lepi- 

 doptera classed as edible, All; Lepidoptera classed as nauseous, 

 A 17 R 3. Manders says one of the latter was at first refused because 

 of large size, then partly eaten, and the other two were too dry. 



He further states "that so long as the butterflies remained per- 

 fectly still, they were entirely unnoticed by the lizards, though they 

 might be in close proximity to them" (p. 708). This indicates that 



/, No. 10, pp. 746, 747. 

 "Spolia zeylanica, VII, Pt. XXV, September, 1910, pp. 12, 13.' 

 35 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1911, pp. 707-710. 

 20 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June^ 



color is not the stimulus to capture, but that motion is. Manders 

 concludes: "It would seem that those who assume that reptiles 

 take no part in the production of Batesian or Mullerian mimicry 

 are correct, though further experiments are required" (p. 710). 



Experiments in Europe. 



A series of experiments by H. Eltringham with Lacerta viridis™- 

 have as their main point the demonstration that a certain lepidop- 

 terous larva (Boarmia rhomboidaria) , was more distasteful to the 

 captive lizards when it had fed on ivy than when fed on apple. In 

 addition, a number of other insects and other invertebrates were 

 used in the experiments. No general conclusions are given. Possible 

 comparisons with Poulton's tables of experiments (1887) are as 

 follows : 



Poulton's tables, 



1887. Eltringham. Animal tested. 



Pieris brassicce, larva R. A 4 D. Lacerta viridis. 



Apis mellifera A many. R. 



Later, Eltringham says that the -caterpillars referred to in his 

 previous experiments are not Boarmia rhomboidaria, but Odontoptera 

 bidentata. The adult moths were eaten by lizards, to which they 

 were fed by Messrs. Eltringham and Pocock. The latter found that 

 they were acceptable also to a bird, Graculifera melanoptera. Eltring- 

 ham concludes that the distastefulness of the larvse was not intrinsic, 

 but due to the character of the food in their digestive tracts. 37 



Plateau states 38 that seven Cistudo europaa ignored the caterpillar 

 of Abraxas grossulariata, while one tried and rejected it. Coluber 

 eesculapii and Lacerta muralis disregarded the larvae and rejected 

 them when placed in their mouths. 



Experiments in America. 



Few experimental tests of the efficiency of the protective adapta- 

 tions of insects have been made in the United States. The most 

 important series hitherto published in full was performed by Annie 

 H. Pritchett and was reported in the Biological Bulletin (Vol. 5, 

 pp. 271-287, 1903). The animals used were Sceloporus floridanus, 

 Gerrhonotus infernalis, Crotaphijtus collaris, Cnemidophorus sexli- 



36 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1909, pp. 471-478. 



37 "Edibility of Lepidopterous Larvse," Proc. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1910, pp. xxxi,xxxii.. 



38 Mem. de la Soc. Zool. de France, VII, 1894, p. 383. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



neatus, Eumeces sp., and Phrynosoma cornutum. A large variety of 

 invertebrates were offered the lizards, with the following principal 

 results: (a) Only one instance of a lizard eating a dead insect; 

 (6) insects that move slowly do not attract the attention of the 

 lizard so much as do the more active forms, hence those that remain 

 quiescent are rarely even attacked; (c) insects below a certain size 

 are apparently not perceived by the large species of lizards; (d) 

 large beetles having hard elytra are seldom eaten; (e) the myriapod 

 Julus was not eaten by any lizard ; (/) although the combinations of 

 black and yellow, black and orange, or black and red are supposed 

 to serve the purpose of warning coloration, all insects possessing 

 these colors were, at one time or another, eaten, with the possible 

 exceptions of Panorpa nuptialis Gerst. and a malodorous Lygseid bug. 

 Some experiments with Sceloporus undulatus by Dr. S. D. Judd 

 which have never been published may now be put on record for 

 purposes of comparison with the series just noted. The results of 

 these tests follow: 



Orthoptera : 



Blattid.e — Stylopyga orientalis (black) A 2 



Mantid^e — Stagomantis Carolina (dark brown) R 



Locustid^b — Microcentvum sp. (green) R 



Gryllid^e — Gryllus sp. (dark brown) A 3 



Coleoptera: 



Carabid^e — Carabida? (undet.) A 



Harpalus pennsylvanicus (black) A 



Scarites subterraneus (black) R 



Coccinellid^e — Coccinella sp. (warning colors) R 2 



Hippodamia sp. (warning colors) R 



Adalia sp. (warning colors) D 



Epilachna borealis (yellow and black) A 



Dermestid^e — Dermestes sp. (nearly black above, 



white below) A 



LampyridjE — Chauliognathus sp. (warning colors) R 



Scarab^eid^e — Ligyrus sp. (reddish-brown) R 2 



Lachnostema sp. (reddish-brown) R 2 



Chrysomelid.e — Leptinotarsa decemlineata (vellow and 



black) R2 



Diabrotica sp A 



Heteroptera (all strong smelling) : 



Pentatomid^e — Brochymena sp R 



Nezara hilaris (green) R 



Reduviid^e — Arilus cristatus (red-brown, wings with 



bronzed tips) R 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Lepidoptera: 



Arctiid.e — Hyphantria cunea 1. (yellow, brown, and 



black, very hairy) .. A 2 R2 



Liparid.e — Orgyia leucostigma 1. (red, black, white, 



and yellow, hairy, tufted) R 2 



Diptera: 



Muscidje — Calliphora erythrocephala (metallic blue) D 



Sceloporus floridanus and S. undulatus are very close relatives; 



hence so far as the lizards are concerned, comparsions between the 



two sets of experiments are not far-fetched. Unfortunately, the 



insects offered have nothing more than the genus in common, and 



that in only a few cases. However, the comparisons possible on 



this basis are given: 



Pritchett. Judd. 



Brochymena D R 



Chauliognathus A 24 R 2 R 



Harpalus A 3 D 4 A 



Gryllus A 5+ A3 



Summing up Judd's experiments, we have the following results: 



A. 



"Protected " group 39 4 



" Non-protected " group 8 



Evidently these Sceloporus were hard to please, accepting barely 

 more than a third of all the insects offered; 66 per cent, of the 

 individuals of "protected" species were refused and 52 per cent, of 

 the "non-protected" group. 



Dr. S. Lockwood briefly records 40 the food habits of the Florida 

 chameleon (Anolis principalis) in captivity. The lizards ate flies 

 and spiders, but would not take the potato beetle (Leptinotarsa 

 decemlineata) , and, in fact, were not fond of beetles at all.' Dr. Lock- 

 wood cites an observation by Bell, that a pet Anolis, catching an 

 Epeira diadema by the leg, was bitten by its captive and death soon 

 ensued. 



MAMMALS. 



Finn records 41 brief experiments with an East African mongoose 

 (Crossarchus fasciatus). This animal refused one specimen of a 

 frog (Xenopus Icevis) and ate and vomited another. It ate and 



39 That is those "warninglv" colored or otherwise "specially defended." 



40 Am. Nat., 10, 1876, pp. 7, 8. 



41 Natural Science, I, No. 10, December, 4892, pp. 746-747. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



vomited parts of a lizard (Mabuia striata), but the lizard was never- 

 theless entirely eaten. The mongoose was unwilling to eat birds 

 and refused to attack a conspicuous milliped (Spirobolus). An 

 obscurely colored milliped also was refused by a lemur (Galago). 



Another of Finn's experiments concerning the tastes of mammals 

 for insects deals with a tree-shrew {Tupaia ferruginea). 42 The 

 conclusion is: "It is obvious that this animal had a very strong 

 objection to the 'protected' Danainse and Papilio aristolochice, as 

 it. so constantly refused them" (p. 532). This is a fair summary of 

 the experiment except as it applies to Papilio aristolochice, the record 

 for which was A 2 R2. 



Marshall and Poulton have published 43 accounts of experiments 

 with a mongoose {Herpestes galera), baboons, and a monkey (Cerco- 

 pithecus pygerythrus) . The mongoose tested by Marshall (pp. 376- 

 378) refused but one insect consistently and had only two trials 

 with that. The animal was tested with birds as food and refused 

 five out of ten kinds offered. Two of the five refused have colors 

 of the type called warning and this is peg enough upon which to hang 

 some speculations as to distastefulness. Nothing is said about the 

 equally conspicuous colors of two of the species eaten, viz., Nettopus 

 auritus, blackish-green, white and rufous; and Saxicola pileata, 

 chestnut, black, and white. The results of single trials of several 

 insects with Cercopithecus pygerythrus are recorded on p. 379, and 

 pp. 380-392 are devoted to an account and dtscussion of more 

 extended experiments with baboons. Poulton tabulates the Cole- 

 optera accepted and rejected by the baboons, and from these tabula- 

 tions it appears that about 75 per cent, of the beetles rejected had 

 warning color patterns, as did about 55 per cent, of those accepted. 

 It is unfortunate that there are no records of the natural food of 

 these African mammals that can be used as a check on the experi- 

 mental results. 



MIXED GROUPS OF ANIMALS. 



Brief notes on experiments with a marmoset and lizards are 

 included in E. B. Poulton's description of the "means of defence 

 adopted by the larva of Stauropus fagi" and the "defensive value of 

 'tussocks' of Orgyia and the associated black intersegmental mark- 

 ings." 44 



i2 Journ. Asiatic Soc. Bengal, 66, 1897 (1898), pp. 528-532. 



43 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1902, pp. 376-392. 



44 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1888, pp. 581-588 and 589-591. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



We are told that when at rest the larva of Stauropus fagi resembles 

 a withered beech leaf. Next, it is stated that the second and third 

 pairs of thoracic legs are so held that they resemble, "in the most 

 beautiful manner, a bunch of brown scales (the stipules of the foliage 

 leaves) which enclose the buds of the beech, and hang down after 

 the latter are unfolded." As if withered beech leaves, thus adorned, 

 were common during the life of this larva and as if beech were the 

 only food plant of the larvae. As a matter of fact, Stauropus feeds 

 on the foliage of several other woody plants. When aroused the 

 larva is said by Poulton to assume a terrifying attitude, the main 

 suggestion of which is a spider-like creature. 



It is rather amusing to contemplate the variety of resemblances 

 claimed for Stauropus larvae. For instance, Poulton himself, ten 

 years later, insists upon an entirely different resemblance from those 

 above mentioned. He then says: 



"The young larvae of Stauropus fagi have often been described as 

 resembling ants. The likeness has recently been analyzed in much 

 detail by Portschinski {Coloration marquante et Taches ocellees, 

 V, St. Petersburg, 1897, p. 44). This acute observer considers that 

 the head of the larva represents the globular abdomen of the ant, 

 while the head and antennae of the latter are suggested by the larval 

 caudal shield with its two appendages. He believes the disturbed 

 larva represents an ant which has seized and is endeavoring to carry 



off some object on the branch which it is exploring During 



the present summer (of 1898) I have had the opportunity of studying 

 these larvae. The young larvae were thought to be ants by all the 

 friends to whom they were shown. One lady considered that they 

 were 'double ants' — an interpretation evidently due to their dis- 

 proportionate length and to the head-like appearance of the caudal 

 shield." 45 



Birchall 46 states that the young larva closely resembles a twig of 

 beech with unopened buds, and that when feeding its likeness to a 

 great earwig or to a Staphylinus is very striking. He also remarks 

 upon the general suggestion of a crustacean in the larva's aspect, 

 but he further desires "to speak doubtfully of the sharp eyes of a 

 bird or Ichneumon being de'ceived when engaged in its own special 

 business, by any such colorable imitation" (p. 233). 



Mrs. Bazett 47 notes the great resemblance that the newly hatched 



45 Journ. Linn. Soc. Lond., Zoology, Vol. XXVI, 1898, pp. 589, 590. 



46 Ent. Monthly Mag., XIII, 1877, p. 231. 



47 Enl. Rec. II, 1891, p. 210. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



larva bears to an ant, while Kirby 48 says it is from the extraordinary 

 appearance of the larva that the species derives its name of lobster 

 moth. 



Thus the larva of Stauropus is supposed to mimic more or less 

 closely, objects in both the vegetable and the animal kingdoms, 

 and within the limits of the latter, representatives of five orders 

 (not to mention ants carrying prey nor double ants), belonging to no 

 fewer than three classes of the phylum Arthropoda. It is evident 

 that the predaceous foes of Stauropus, had they only the imaginative 

 powers of its human observers, could have a banquet of many diverse 

 courses, each of which would be merely Stauropus in disguise. 



Poulton says: "I should not, however, have ventured to speak 

 so plainly of the meaning of the various details in the defensive 

 attitude of the larva if I had not been able to rely upon the best 

 support attainable — the support yielded by direct experiment." 49 

 He would have been approximately correct if he had said the poorest 

 support attainable, but let us see what the support is. A marmoset 

 and a lizard were offered one Stauropus larva each; they showed 

 caution in attack, but each ate the larva. Rather a slender basis, one 

 would say, for four pages of argument on the special defence of the 

 creature. 



The continuation of the argument — defence against insect enemies 

 — is even more far-fetched. When irritated the larva displays 

 black patches on certain segments, and Poulton thinks "it is clear 

 that the black marks exposed by the larva are calculated to suggest 

 to the approaching enemy [parasite] that the individual [larva] in 

 question is already occupied." Super-parasitism is too common an 

 occurrence to warrant the belief that parasitic insects are warned 

 away by any visible signs of preoccupation. 



The tussock moths (Orgyia antiqua and 0. pudibunda) are supposed 

 to be protected by the fine hairs of the tussocks which come out 

 easily in immense numbers. Poulton says: "This interpretation 

 is entirely due to experiment. A larva of 0. antiqua was introduced 

 into a lizard's cage and, when attacked, instantly assumed the defen- 

 sive attitude. An unwary lizard seized the apparently feasible part 

 of the larva: most of the tussock came out in its mouth, and the 

 lizard seemed greatly troubled by the fine hairs and did not touch 

 the larva again" (p. 590). An Orgyia pudibunda larva was killed 

 but not eaten by another lizard. 



48 The Butterflies and Moths of Europe, 1903, p. 46. 



49 Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1888, p. 585. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



The results of most of the earlier experiments with various animals 

 are brought together by Prof. E. B. Poulton in a paper entitled, 

 "The Experimental Proof of the Protective Value of Color and 

 Markings in Insects with Reference to their Vertebrate Enemies" 

 (Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1887, pp. 191-274). It is convenient to 

 review these experiments collectively. Those covered by Poulton 

 are as follows : 



Butler, A. G. Remarks upon certain Caterpillars, etc., which are 

 Unpalatable to their Enemies. Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond.. 1S69, 

 pp. 27-29. 

 Animals experimented with were Lacerta viridis, frogs, and spiders. 

 In part previouslv published in Ent. Monthly Mag., .5, 1868, 

 pp. 131, 132. 

 Poulton, E. B. Diary of observations during 1886. P. Z. S. 

 Lond., 1887, pp. 269-274. " 

 Using Lacerta muralis, L. viridis, and Hyla arbor ea. The earlier 

 sketch of some of the results of these experiments is: "Some 

 experiments upon the protection of insects from their enemies 

 by means of an unpleasant taste or smell." Rep. British A. A. 

 S., 1886 (1887), pp. 694, 695. 

 Weir, J. Jenner. On Insects and Insectivorous Birds, and especially 

 on the relation between the Color and the Edibility of Lepi- 

 doptera and their Larva?. Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1869, pp. 

 21-26. 

 The birds used were seven species of finches, one weaver bird, 

 one muscicapid, one pipit, and one thrush. Few of them are 

 highly insectivorous species. 

 Weir, J. J. Further Observations on the relation between Color and 

 the Edibility of Lepidoptera and their Larvae. Trans. Ent. 

 Soc. Lond., 1870, pp. 337-339. 

 Birds used as in his previous experiments. 

 Weir, J. J. Diary of observations during 1886. Proc. Zool. Soc. 

 Lond., 1887, pp. 268, 269. 

 Experiments with lizards: Lacerta viridis, L. agilis, and Zootoca 

 vivipara. 

 Weismann, A. Studies in the Theory of Descent. London. 1882, 

 Vol. I, pp. 328-341. 

 Principally experiments with Lacerta viridis. 



The main burden of the first half of Poulton's paper is the searching 

 of the results of these experiments for support of "Wallace's original 

 suggestion 'that brilliant or conspicuous larva? would be found to 

 be refused by their enemies'" (p. 196). In the preliminary sketch 50 



60 Rep. British A. A. S., 1886 (1887), p. 694. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305' 



of his own experiments Poulton says: "Wallace had predicted that 

 brilliantly colored and conspicuous insects would be refused by the 

 ordinary vertebrate enemies of their class." This statement, which 

 was a "bull" from the very beginning (inasmuch as we cannot 

 reckon as enemies of an insect those animals that refuse to eat it) 

 is wrongly stated by Poulton in both of the above cases. Wallace's 

 original suggestion, as reported in Proc. Ent. Soc. London, 1867, 

 p. lxxxi, is that, "as a rule, the brilliantly colored larvse were those 

 which were distasteful to birds." Poulton further twists this in his 

 table headings to a suggestion "that brilliant and conspicuous 

 larvae would be refused by some at least of their enemies," a much 

 later modification of Wallace's statement. 



However, this later claim would be admitted without argument 

 did we accept Poulton's usage of the term enemies as including 

 practically all insectivorous animals. Even if there were no other 

 factors involved, the relative sizes of the larva? and of various insec- 

 tivorous animals in themselves establish limits to the number of 

 predators upon a certain form; thus numerous large larvse will be 

 free from attacks of all but a small proportion of insectivorous foes. 

 Very small larva?, on the other hand, will be overlooked by many 

 predators. That is, considerations entirely aside from coloration 

 will limit the number of enemies of any given form. It is evident 

 that all vertebrates cannot be enemies of the same insect; enemies 

 and prey form indefinite groups that intermesh in a multitude of 

 combinations. Consequently, an insect cannot be said to be pro- 

 tected, because certain vertebrates more or less ignore it, when they 

 perhaps have no opportunity and certainly in many cases no necessity 

 for feeding on it in the wild state. 



Poulton first tabulates the results of experiments with eighteen 

 species of "undoubtedly conspicuous larvse," and concludes: "The 

 first and obvious result of the first table is, with only one entirely 

 antagonistic exception, the most complete demonstration of the 

 truth of Wallace's suggestion that a highly conspicuous appearance 

 would be found to be accompanied by some unpleasant attribute" 

 (p. 205). Upon close inspection of this table, we find there are two, 

 not one, species that are not shown to be distasteful to any animal, 

 namely, Deilephila euphorbice and Lasiocampa pini; eight not refused 

 by anything are included because they were disregarded by birds. 

 The writer has explained above why disregard cannot be accepted 

 as a test at all. The inadvisability of so doing is shown by the fact 

 that at least three of these eight species of larvse, namely, Orgy in 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



antiqua, Cucullia verbasci, 51 and Hybernia defoliaria, are known to be 

 eaten by British wild birds. The other eight species included in the 

 table comprise three others disregarded by caged birds, two of which 

 are also eaten by British wild birds. These eight, however, were 

 used chiefly in experiments with lizards, and four of them were 

 accepted as well as refused upon trial. Of the four only refused, 

 one (Porthesia auriflua) was eaten by hungry lizards in Poulton's 

 experiments of 1887. 52 Another, Pieris brassicce, was eaten more 

 often than refused in Pocock's experiments (reviewed later), and a 

 third which was rejected by frogs and lizards is known to be eaten 

 by nestlings of Parus major. 



Exception may be taken to remarks about some of the species 

 listed in this table. For instance, J)eilephila euphorbia? was eaten 

 by a captive lizard, and Newman says, "sea-gulls and terns devour 

 them in numbers." We may add to the list of enemies the mause- 

 bussard, on the authority of Schuster. 53 Poulton's comment on 

 this larvae is: "The correlation of a startling appearance with some 

 unpleasant attribute must probably have existed once if not now. 

 Have we a case in which hunger or opportunity have caused the 

 enemies to neglect the latter and therefore to benefit by the former? " 

 (p. 199). We cannot so conclude, unless we admit also that similar 

 warning coloration (D. euphorbia? is "black, red, and yellow or 

 white") would lose its meaning (admitting for the purposes of argu- 

 ment that it has a meaning) to the same enemies in all other cases. 



It is of interest to note that Hybernia defoliaria, included in this 

 table because disregarded by captive birds, was found in the stomachs 

 of three species of British birds by Robert Newstead. 54 Schuster 

 (I. c.) records many species of birds as enemies of this larva as well 

 as of H. brumata. 



Table II includes four larvae which only become conspicuous when 

 approached and detected; one is not shown to be unpalatable to 

 anything, one was both eaten and refused by lizards, and another 

 was eaten by at least two species of birds and avoided without trial 

 by two or more other species. The fourth species was refused by 

 lizards and poultry, but eaten by nestling great tits. 



One of the larvae listed in this table has been made the basis of some 



61 See particularly the note, "Do birds eat the larvae of Cucullia?" by H. 

 D'Orville, Entomologists' Monthly Mag., VI, June, 1869, p. 16. 

 52 Rep. British A. A. S., 1887 (1888), p. 764. 

 63 Ent. Bl. Niirnberg, 5, Nr. 7, July 15, 1909. 

 i4 Suppl. Jour. Bd. Agr. Bond., XV, No. 9, December, 1908. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



of the most far-fetched theorizing imaginable. Chcerocampa elpenor 

 is its name; "When approached the anterior part of the body is 

 distended and resembles a serpent-like head (of the cobra type)" 

 (p. 206). In Weismann's experiments, "A tame jay ate the larva at 

 once; sparrows and chaffinches (wild) were frightened by it, and 

 would not come near a seed trough in which it was placed; fowls 

 were evidently frightened, but in the end cautiously attacked it, 

 when it was soon eaten." Lady Verney notes that small birds 

 "would not come near a tray with crumbs on it on which the larva 

 had been placed" (p. 206). The larva of Chcerocampa is a large one 

 (the ocellated spots are present only in last stage; if so useful, why 

 is this the case?) and its size alone is sufficient to explain the actions 

 of the small birds. In the case of the sparrows at least, almost any 

 strange object of the same size might cause the same reaction. 

 Anything new about their regular haunts is viewed with suspicion. 



In regard to the Cobra-like appearance of Chcerocampa, Poulton 

 says: "It is likely that the terrifying appearance of our own larvae 

 probably first arose in the tropics, where the imitated cause of alarm 

 to the enemies of the larvae is real and obvious. And it is probable 

 that the success of the same method in countries where the reptilian 

 fauna cannot be said to constitute a source of alarm is due to the 

 inherited memories of a tropical life which live on, as that instinctive 

 fear of anything snake-like which is so commonly exhibited by the 

 higher land vertebrates, including ourselves" (p. 204). 



What a characteristic piece of selectionist reasoning(?) ; at least 

 four very debatable biological propositions, namely, the tropical 

 origin of the European fauna, its origin in a part of the tropics having 

 cobras, and instinctive fear in man and other vertebrates, are prac- 

 tically taken as established facts. Aside from these assumptions, 

 the argument is very amusing also when contrasted with that insisted 

 upon by selectionists, in a hundred places, that birds have no instinct- 

 ive knowledge of what is suitable for food, but must learn by experi- 

 ence. If an instinct of cobra fear is present in birds whose remote 

 ancestors may possibly have seen cobras, it would seem that instinct 

 about such an every-day matter as food were not a point to strain at. 

 However, it is obvious that both arguments cannot well be sup- 

 ported by any but the exceedingly versatile. 



Table III includes seven "not inconspicuous larva? which are not 

 nocturnal and which do not conceal themselves." Two are not 

 shown to be unpalatable to anything and four are included on the 

 basis of disregard by birds or lizards, at least two of which are eaten 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



by wild birds. While the remaining one was refused by three species 

 of birds and disregarded by others, it also is eaten by wild birds. 



Table IV presents the results for " bright-colored or conspicuous 

 insects other than larvae." It deals with fifteen forms, four of which 

 are not shown to be distasteful to any animal; two are included on 

 the basis of disregard only, and four were accepted and refused by 

 the same class of enemies. One of the remaining five, i.e., Anthro- 

 cera filipendula, imago, refused by lizards in these experiments, was 

 eaten by lizards in the 1887 experiments (I.e.). Concerning another 

 insect of this group, namely, Abraxas grossulariata , Poulton notes 

 (p. 220) his opinion that Butler's record of frogs eating the moth 

 must be a mistake. It is noteworthy, however, that he uses others 

 of Butler's records without question. Butler later affirmed the 

 correctness of his note, and showed that the same insect is taken by 

 some birds. 



Tables I-IV deal with forty-four insects, nine, or 17 per cent., of 

 which are not shown to be distasteful to any animal; another nine 

 were both accepted and rejected by the same classof enemies. Eighteen 

 were either disregarded or rejected by birds, and at least nine of 

 these are known to be eaten by wild British birds. We have pointed 

 out above inconsistencies of some of the other cases with other 

 experiments. In fact, as may be seen on p. 313, in seven out of eight 

 possible direct comparisons of these experiments with those of 

 Pocock, the only other extensive series using British insects, the 

 results are inconsistent. 



Eight of the insects of the distasteful groups in these tabulations 

 were fed to hungry lizards, in experiments performed by Poulton 

 in 1887, 55 and all were accepted. The behavior of the lizards in the 

 cases reported contrasts. strongly with that shown in the previous 

 experiments as shown in the following table of comparisons. 



Birds: 1886. 1887. 



Orgyia antiqua, larva D A 



Vanessa urticce, pupa R A 



Lizards : 



Euchelia jacobw, 1 A 2 R4 D A 



Pygcera bucephala, 1 A3 R3 D A 



Porthesia auriflua, 1 R2 A 



Anthrocer a filipendula, ad R A 



Abraxas grossulariata, 1 Al R7 D2 A 



" Further Experiments upon the Protective Value of Color and Markings 

 in Insects," Rep. British A. A.S., 1887 (1888), pp. 763-765. These experiments, 

 dealing with frogs, lizards, and a marmoset, and including a few of A. G. Butler's 

 notes on birds, are not reported in full. Hence they are not reviewed. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



Progs: 



Croesus septentrionalis, 1 A A 



Thus it appears that these experiments are inconsistent among 

 themselves, and from the fact that at least fifteen of the forty-four 

 insects alleged to have been proved distasteful by the experiments 

 are known to be eaten by wild British birds, we are justified in 

 suspecting that the experimental results do not accurately indicate 

 behavior under natural conditions. 



A fifth table by Poulton comprises the results of experiments with 

 insects which are protectively colored or which evade their enemies 

 by other means. On the theory, therefore, all of these insects should 

 be eaten freely by insectivorous animals. However, in sixteen out 

 of sixty-eight cases, more than 23 per cent., 56 the "evidences of 

 distaste" are fully as strong as in the majority of the cases in the 

 first four tables. Taking this fact in connection with that previously 

 adduced, to the effect that 17 per cent, of the " protected" insects 

 were not shown to be "unpalatable" to anything, and the additional 

 fact that sixteen out of the forty-four, or 36 per cent., were included 

 on the basis of disregard (some of them being eaten also), it is quite 

 •clear, that the insects, etc., were sorted out into the various tables, 

 in accordance with the requirements of the theory, experimental 

 evidence to the contrary notwithstanding. If authors are not 

 •consistent in the interpretation of the results of experiments, how 

 can they expect others to have faith in them? 



Poulton tries to explain the refusals of certain "protectively 

 colored" imago Lepidoptera; for instance, with regard to Vanessa 

 urticce he says (p. 246) : "I have no doubt that the refusal of some 

 frogs was due to scales only," and of Pieris brassicce, "eaten readily 

 by all lizards, but not much relished, I believe, because of the mechani- 

 cal difficulty of the scales and wings and not from being actually 

 unpalatable." We cannot accept these explanations (which no 

 doubt are true) without asking that they be made to cover the 

 refusals of all adult Lepidoptera (of proper size for the animal experi- 

 mented with). This would affect four species of Table IV and seven 

 in Table V. We find Poulton later regarding P. brassicai as intrinsi- 

 cally unpalatable (P. Z. S., 1911, pp. 864, 865). 



The inconspicuous larvae of Mania typica were tasted and rejected 

 by Lacerta muralis, Poulton's comment is: "At first sight a most 



56 This does not take into account earthworms and fly larvse, which were 

 rejected as well as refused, although the fact is not stated in the table. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



startling difficulty, yet it is evident from the behavior of the lizards 

 that they fully expected the larva to be palatable, in itself a strong 

 confirmation of the suggestion that nearly all such larvae are palat- 

 able" (p. 243). This is another argument that cannot be accepted 

 unless it is also applied to the rejections of conspicuous larvae upon 

 trial, and this latter evidence rather than disregard is all the experi- 

 ments yield that is worth any consideration. In fact, if impartially 

 applied, this argument would do away with the experimental evidence 

 of the efficacy of warning colors in all cases in which the insects were 

 tasted before refusal. In other words, it would be just as fair to 

 presume that these conspicuous larvae also were expected to be 

 palatable, "in itself a strong confirmation of the suggestion that 

 nearly all such larvae are palatable." 



The experiments performed by R. I. Pocock, Superintendent of 

 the London Zoological Gardens, like those just reviewed, cover a 

 variety of vertebrate orders. A far larger number of species both 

 of predators and prey were used than in any other experiments yet 

 recorded. The captive animals included twenty-six species of 

 mammals, ninety-six of birds, and seven of lizards, of which only 

 six birds and one lizard occur naturally in England. The insects 

 used were, of course, chiefly native. Even if we believe that experi- 

 mental results have any value as indicating natural behavior, we 

 can only conclude that the conditions of these experiments invalidate 

 the findings, for of what possible value can it be to know the likes 

 and dislikes of exotic animals for British insects? 



The account of these experiments is in P. Z. S. Lond., 1911, pp. 

 809-864. Mr. Pocock thinks his experimental results have "an 

 important bearing upon the criticism sometimes advanced against 

 the theory of warning coloration and mimicry as applied to butter- 

 flies, namely, that birds under natural conditions are seldom seen to 

 eat these insects. Hence it has been inferred that birds cannot be 

 reckoned as serious enemies of butterflies. Whatever may be the 

 explanation of the circumstance," Pocock says, "I am tolerably 

 sure, from the behavior of the two classes of animals when pitted 

 against one another that the inference drawn therefrom is erroneous. 

 The insectivorous birds in our aviaries seemed to know at once what 

 the butterflies were; they were on the alert the moment one was 

 liberated and pursued it with determination and precision, following 

 its every turn and twist, and either catching it upon the wing or 

 pouncing upon it after settling. It is true that this predatory 

 deftness may have been acquired in relation to the chase of insects 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



other than Lepidoptera; but unless the birds recognized butterflies 

 in general — a group which cannot be mistaken for other insects — 

 as part of their natural prey, it is difficult to understand their eager 

 excitement at the sight of those I offered them" (p. 81 1). 57 



Before quoting further, let us look into this argument a little: 

 it is characteristic of the selectionist style. He is very charitable 

 in admitting that predatory deftness may have been acquired in 

 chasing other insects than butterflies. A little reflection will con- 

 vince anyone, be he ignorant or not concerning the important con- 

 stitutents of bird food, that butterflies even if eaten, can furnish 

 but a small percentage of bird food, namely, an amount proportional 

 to their numbers among diurnal insects as a whole. Hence a 

 correspondingly small amount of training in predatory deftness can 

 possibly have been acquired from capturing them. Pocock finds 

 it difficult to understand the eager excitement of the birds at the sight 

 of Lepidoptera, unless they recognized them as such; this after 

 telling us on the preceding page of "the exceeding keenness of the 

 birds for the insects brought to them. This was no doubt due in a 

 measure to our inability in the Gardens to feed the birds on living 

 insects other than mealworms." 



Caged canaries, sometimes become frantically excited when a 

 grasshopper or other insect is held up to the bars of their cage— 

 they may never have seen an insect in their life before, they only 

 know there is something they want. Pocock's parenthetical expres- 

 sion concerning Lepidoptera — "a group which cannot be mistaken 

 for other insects" — directly opposes many arguments by selec- 

 tionists relative to the resemblances of Sesiidse to Hymenoptera; 

 but any argument to establish the present point without reference 

 to its bearing on other phases of the theory is a long-standing rule 

 among selectionists. Continuing his argument, Pocock says: 

 "Again, unless the species of butterflies used for the experiments are, 

 or were in the past, habitually preyed upon by birds, 57 whence comes 

 the extraordinary skill the liberated specimens .... displayed in 

 dodging the swoop of birds in midair? Having repeatedly seen the 

 aim of the pursuing bird baffled by the evasive twist of the butterfly, 

 I cannot doubt that the insect's behavior was prompted by the 

 instinct to escape an habitual enemy of its species, of the same class, 

 and with the same predatory methods" (p. 811). 



57 It is worth pointing out that the disciple is here arguing directly against 

 one of the cardinal teachings of the master, as Poulton iterates and reiterates, 

 "acceptance is not proof of palatability" (Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1902, pp. 436 

 317, 348, and 389). 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Suppose a different experiment were performed : let some muskrats 



i Fiber) be put into an aquarium with some sea-lions ; would their 



•efforts to escape indicate previous experience in evading enemies of 



-the same class? Not at all, it would indicate merely adaptation to 



expert progression in the same medium. The relations of birds 



(in general) to bats and of birds (again in general) to dragonflies are 



instances illustrating the same fact, but which are due to no general 



predatory relation between the groups. The wonderful powers of 



flight of many of the Syrphida? are strictly comparable to that of 



butterflies, as the adults feed only at flowers and have no need of 



expert flight for predatory purposes; also they do not need it so 



highly developed for defense, for rather a small proportion of birds 



are capable of catching insects so expert on the wing. The extreme 



rapidity and dexterity of flight of humming-birds has no possible 



relation to their prey, nor need it have been developed to its present 



perfection to evade species that might be inclined to prey upon 



hummers. When Mr. Pocock arrives at the true reason for the 



extraordinary powers of flight of humming-birds, he will undoubtedly 



be less insistent upon the predator-evasion theory as an explanation 



of the tortuous flight of butterflies. 58 



Pocock further says: "Those who hold on the negative evidence 

 above stated, that birds are not to be reckoned as serious enemies 

 of butterflies, must be called upon to supply some explanation other 

 than that above proposed of the marked reactions between these 

 two classes of animals when brought into contact with one another, 

 and to show reason why what takes place in the aviary may not be 

 regarded as indicative of similar occurrences in nature" (p. 812). 



The pertinent retort to this statement is that it is the selectionists 

 who first claimed and who still claim that birds are important enemies 

 of butterflies, and it is up to them to produce real evidence in favor 

 of their contention. So far they have brought forward little except 

 results of experiments. Pocock's own results, namely, the consump- 

 tion of large numbers of British insects by exotic animals, should 

 have convinced him that what takes place in the aviary may not 

 necessarily be regarded as indicative of similar occurrences in nature. 

 The point may be further illustrated by the following. Suppose a 



5S It is a matter of common observation that butterflies constantly exercise 

 their powers of flight by playing with other butterflies even of different species. 

 They often dart at falling leaves, flying bits of paper, and even birds. The 

 writer saw (March 27, 1912, Plummer's Id., Md.) a Vanessa antiopa dash at 

 and come within a few inches of a phcebe (Sayornis), that had just perched after 

 •one of its customary quick sallies at insect prey. The bird, a highly insectiv- 

 orous species, paid no attention to the butterfly. 




1912.'] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



man has fired his last shot ineffectually at a charging tiger or rhinoce- 

 ros; he naturally shows a "marked reaction" by taking to his heels, 

 not because he or his ancestors have had similar experiences, but 

 because he can run. So with the butterflies, skilful efforts to escape 

 do not necessarily indicate previous racial experience of the same 

 nature. 



The principal failing of the selectionists always has been a vast 

 ignorance of what wild birds really eat. They have made very 

 little effort to acquire such knowledge, and their speculations through- 

 out show the lack of it. Practically the only large body of authentic 

 information on the natural food habits of birds is contained in the 

 records of the United States Biological Survey. They comprise 

 detailed identifications of the contents of more than 48,000 bird 

 stomachs representing all families of birds and collected in hundreds 

 of localities in the United States at all seasons. The United States 

 has a goodly representation of butterflies, yet only five of these 

 48,000 stomachs contained remains of Rhopalocera. It is hoped 

 this will be more satisfactory to the selectionists than the " negative 

 evidence" they are accustomed to cite with contempt. 



The extreme artificiality of Pocock's experiments and the inappli- 

 cability of the results to the natural relations of British birds and 

 insects are so evident that it is not worth while to comment on the 

 details. A few comparisons of the results with those of experiments 

 recorded by Poulton are of interest as showing the inconsistency, 

 inter se, of experiments. It has not been possible to collect a large 

 number of such comparisons because Poulton's experiments were 

 chiefly with lizards and few with birds, while the opposite is true of 

 Pocock's. The varying stages in which the insects were presented 

 also tend to limit comparisons. The table includes all possible 

 direct comparisons and only one pair in eight shows real correlation. 



Birds: Poulton. Pocock. 



Vanessa urticai, larva D A 7 R 4 D 1 



" pupa R A 2 R 2 D 1 



Clisiocampa neustria, larva D A 1 



Euchelia jacobaz, ad A A 1 R 4 



Cosmotricha potatoria, larva D A 1 R 4 D 1 



Anthrocera filipendula, ad. A R 4 



Lizards: 



Apis mellifera, worker A R 3 



Pieris rapw, ad A 20 A 2 



Notes on Pocock's experiments, by Prof. E. B. Poulton, are given 

 21 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jline r 



on pp. 864-868, and show his customary facility in drawing conclu- 

 sions satisfactory to himself from the most refractory evidence. 

 For instance, he says: "The experiments on the Pierince support 

 the conclusion that the perfection of the under surface procryptic 

 resemblance affords a true criterion of the degree of palatability. 

 Pieris brassicce, with its conspicuous gregarious larva and imago 

 larger and less cryptically colored than the other three species .... 

 was distinctly the least palatable" (pp. 864, 865). The records of 

 acceptances and rejections of the three species of Pieris are as follows: 

 Pieris rapce, A 10 R 2, a proportion of 5 to 1 ; Pieris brassicce, A 40 

 R 33, 1| to 1; and Pieris napi, A 8 R 8, 1 to 1; P. napi thus being 

 the least favored in the experiments. These figures are reproduced 

 not because the point as to relative palatability is of any importance, 

 especially as an indication of natural preferences, but merely to show 

 that the experimental results are not accurately judged by those 

 most interested in them. It is of interest to compare Pocock's 

 results with Pieris brassicce with those obtained by Dr. G. Rorig in 

 Germany. Pocock records the pupae of this insect as A 1 R 8 D 3, 

 and the adult as A 16 R 7 D 1, while Dr. Rorig says: 59 The pups? 

 of the Kohlweisling "were eagerly torn open by all the titmice, " and 

 the adults "were always freely eaten by all the birds which I have 

 tested." 



Poulton bases considerable speculation upon the unpalatability 

 of Araschnia levana, the record for which in the experiments is A 20 

 R 10. He follows this with a page of theorizing on the probable 

 mimicry of Melitcea by Hesperia, and says that the experimental 

 "results as a whole leave little doubt that Melitcea is distasteful to 

 many birds, and that it does actually possess the qualtities which 

 would render it an advantageous model for the Hesperiidse" (p. 867). 

 As a matter of fact, the experiments with birds and Melitcea de- 

 scribed on pp. 826 and 827 show that it was finally refused by only 

 one bird; it was eaten by thirteen species, seven species of which 

 took nine specimens without hesitation. Two birds which dropped 

 the first specimen offered them later took one and two, respectively, 

 including those dropped. The final record for birds is A 18 R 1. 

 If this is considered proof that Melitcea is advantageous as a model, 

 the demands of the theory are most modest. 



On p. 867 he also refers to Melanargia as a highly distasteful genus ; 

 its record in the experiments is A 14 R 4. Another extract from 



Arb. Biol. Abt. f. Land. Forstwirts. K. Gesundheitsamte, 4, 1903, p. 47. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Poulton's remarks is, "Although so many insectivorous animals in 

 confinement disregarded the special defence of Formica rufa, there 

 can be little doubt that such defence is very effective in the wild 

 state. It is impossible on any other hypothesis to account for the 

 conditions under which the species exists, swarming in vast numbers 

 in restricted areas and an easy prey to any enemy that would dare 

 to attack" (p. 868). Here we have a case where experimental 

 results are not in accord with the theory, and it is evident that it is 

 so much the worse for the experiments. Where the evidence is of 

 a supporting nature, experiments are extolled to the skies. Pocock, 

 who tries to stick consistently to the experimental results which for 

 Formica rufa were an indefinite number of acceptances and no 

 rejections by a monkey, A 13 R by birds, and two refusals by 

 lizards, says: '"The unavoidable conclusion that these insects are 

 palatable is rather surprising in view of the frequency with which 

 ants are mimicked in the tropics" (p. 849). In deeming it impossible 

 for the ants to live as at present unless specially defended, Poulton 

 takes the struggle for existence too seriously. In fact, he seems to 

 think all gregarious insects must be specially protected, thus over- 

 looking periodical cicadas, migratory locusts, canker-worms, army- 

 worms, etc., which usually occur in large numbers and are eagerly 

 attacked by a great variety of insectivorous foes. 



Poulton further remarks: "It was also apparent in many of the 

 experiments that the unpalatability of conspicuous Lepidoptera 

 was .... far more obvious to the birds than the mammals. In 

 view of the part which birds are believed to play in the production 

 of mimetic resemblances, it is obvious that this inference may be 

 highly significant" (p. 868). The writer has tabulated the accept- 

 ances and rejections for mammals and birds, including only those 

 Lepidoptera which were refused by some species, and the result is 

 mammals A 19 R 10, or about 34 per cent, refused, and birds A 112 

 R 80, or about 41 per cent, refused. Hardly enough difference to 

 warrant the comment quoted. 



A very interesting series of experiments with frogs, lizards, birds, 

 and mammals upon a good variety of insects and other inverte- 

 brates as subjects were performed by Beddard and Finn at the 

 London Zoological Gardens and recorded by the former in his volume 

 entitled Animal Coloration (1892, pp. 149-166). Mr. Beddard's 

 principal conclusions are as follows: "It is quite clear from these 

 experiments that insects which exhibit warning colors are by no 

 means always exempt from attack. The opinions of insect-eating 




il u 



it 



iC 



u 



316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



mammals, birds, and reptiles appear to vary as to the edibility of 



this or that insect But these experiments do show that 



very generally, though not always, a disagreeable taste is associated 

 with a conspicuous and varied coloration. On the other hand, 

 precisely the same deductions can be drawn by watching the behavior 

 of animals when offered inconspicuously colored insects" (p. 155). 



As in previous cases, we will give the direct comparisons that can 

 be made between these and other sets of experiments. Four out of 

 seven contrasted pairs are contradictory. 



Poulton's 



Tables, Animals 



1887. Beddard. tested. 



Armadillo vulgaris A A 2 Lacerta viridis. 



Lithobius forficatus A R 



Pieris brassicce, 1 R A 5 R 2 D 1 Lizards. 



Abraxas grossulariata, 1...A 1R7D2 R1D2 



Vespa vulgaris D A 2 



Euchelia jacobce, 1 A 2R4 A1R3D1 



Pocock, 1911. Beddard. 

 Pieris brassicce, 1 A 20 R 18 A 2 D 1 Birds. 



Beddard justly remarks (p. 166): "None of these experiments 

 are thoroughly satisfactory; it is so difficult to interpret them, and 

 they are often contradictory, for a bird will eat one day what it has 

 refused before. The experiments that have been made are like most 

 other statistics — they may be made to prove anything. A careful 

 series of observations upon the contents of the stomachs of wild 

 birds would be the nearest approach to a satisfactory solution of the 

 difficulty; but there are obvious objections to this mode of inves- 

 tigation." 



Fortunately, this objectionable method has been pursued to some 

 extent in England, i.e., by Newstead, and to a slight degree the 

 work serves as a check on experiments with British birds and insects. 

 Beddard gave an earwig to a green woodpecker, which made a great 

 deal of fuss over it, but ended by swallowing it; Newstead found 

 these insects in two stomachs of green woodpeckers, one of which 

 contained 23. 60 



Merely for the sake of completeness the very brief notes upon 

 experiments by Thomas Belt 61 may be given here: 



A tame white-faced monkey always killed but did not eat Heliconii 

 (pp. 316, 317). 



60 Suppl. Journ. Bd. Agr. [Lond.], XV, 1908, p. 64. 

 91 The Naturalist in Nicaragua, 1888. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Lampyridse were "invariably rejected by the monkey, and my 

 fowls would not touch them") p. 317). 



A red and blue frog was not touched by fowls and ducks, but one 

 of the latter tricked into taking one rejected it (p. 321). 



We may add also those of Haase: 62 



Erithacus rubecula had to be starved into eating Zygoma trifolii 

 (p. 20). 



Fowls always rejected Danais chrysippus, but eagerly ate Papilio 

 pammon. Captive monkeys also rejected Danais (p. 23). 



Attempts to feed species of Danais, Pharmacophagus, Delias, and 

 Euschema to tame chickens were unsuccessful (p. 99). 



Danais septentrionalis was rejected by caged lizards (Calotes 

 mystaceus) (p. 99). 



The following, appended in bibliographic form, are self-explana- 

 tory: 



Donisthorpe, H. St. J. K. Cases of Protective Resemblance, 

 Mimicry, etc., in the British Coleoptera. Trans. Ent. Soc. 

 Lond., 1901. 

 Three species of lizards were found to reject the Telephorid, 



Psilothrix nobilis (p. 362). 

 Specimens of Melasoma populi " were pecked at, but finally refused, 

 though killed, by Shama, Pied Mynah, Laughing Jackass and 

 Brambling. The Drongo and Graculipica nigrirostris ate 

 several." The author says: "It appears to me that their 

 refusal by so many insect-eaters in confinement conclusively 

 proves their distastefulness" (p. 368). It proves nothing of 

 the sort. Moreover, "distastefulness" of the kind here claimed 

 seems to be no protection at all. Specimens of Cassida equestris 

 were eaten by all the birds to which they were offered (p. 369). 



Shelford, Pi. Observations on some Mimetic Insects and Spiders 

 from Borneo. Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1902, pp. 230-284, 

 pis. 19-23. 

 Two tame monkeys (Macacus cynomolgus) manifested disgust 

 after tasting specimens of the Reduviid (Eulyes amcena), but 

 ate its mimic, the mantis (Htjmenopus bicornis) (p. 232). The 

 writer says he has proved the distastefulness of Lycidse, by 

 repeated trials with various small mammals and birds (p. 244). 

 "All the Lycidse are strongly distasteful .... A strong vitality 

 is correlated with this distastefulness: I have seen a Lycid 

 beetle walk away apparently uninjured after it had been well 

 pecked by two or three fowls" (p. 267). 



Titchener, E. B., and F. Finn. Comparative Palatabilitv of 

 Insects, etc. Nature, Vol. 42, No. 1,093, October 9, 1890, 

 pp. 571, 572. 



Haase, E., Researches on Mimicry, Part II, Stuttgart, 1896. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J line, 



The animals used in these experiments were domestic mice, toads, 

 a mynah (Acridotheres tristis), a heron (Ardea cinerea), a prairie 

 owl, a water tortoise and a lizard. The results of the experi- 

 ments are described in detail, but no general conclusion is given. 

 At least seven of the things offered as food were both accepted 

 and refused by the same species of animal. This number 

 included the common earthworm (Lumbricus terrestris) . 

 Titchener, E. B. Comparative Palatability. Nature, Vol. 44, 

 No. 23, October 8, 1891, p. 540. 



Experiments with frogs, toads and ducks, supplementary to the 

 above; no general remarks. 

 Titchener, E. B. Comparative Palatability. Nature, Vol. 45, 

 No. 3, November 19, 1891, p. 53. 



These experiments relate to the choice of food by captive goldfish, 

 silverfish, frogs, and a spider. The details are given without 

 comment. 



BIRDS. 



Experiments in Europe. 



Birds have been used more frequently than animals of any other 

 class to test the potency of the protective adaptations of insects and 

 other groups under experimental conditions. One of the most 

 important series of experiments was carried on chiefly as a study of 

 the origin of the process by which food is accepted or rejected by 

 birds. In this series Prof. C. Lloyd Morgan performed various 

 experiments with young chicks, pheasants, guinea-fowls, moorhens, 

 and ducks, the net result of which "is that, in the absence of parental 

 guidance, the young birds have to learn for themselves what is good 

 to eat and what is distasteful, and have no instinctive aversions." 63 

 The results of these experiments are often quoted by the selectionists, 

 and as usual in such cases with sweeping inclusions not at all intended 

 by the author. He says: "I am not, of course, prepared to say 



that in no case is there such instinctive aversion Birds 



like the megapodes, which are hatched out in mounds apart from 

 parental influence .... may show instinctive avoidances which 

 our well-cared-for birds do not possess. That the parent bird does 

 in most cases afford guidance is unquestionable" (pp. 43-44). 



Some of the principal results that have a bearing on the value of 

 warning colors under experimental conditions are as follows: 



1. Chicks tested and rejected cinnabar caterpillars (Euchelia jacobce), 

 but ate brown loopers and larvae of the green cabbage-moth 

 (p. 42). A jay ate five cinnabar larvae, but would take no 

 more (p. 43). 



63 Habit and Instinct, 1896, p. 43. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



2. Young moorhens found the conspicuously colored burnet moths 



{Zygoma filipendula) distasteful, the obnoxious part being the 

 wings, for the body from which the wings were removed was 

 eaten with apparent relish while the severed wings were rejected 

 (p. 42). 



3. Lvmbricus faztidus was refused at first, as were all other earth- 



worms for some time afterwards. Later all were eaten. 



4. All birds tested avoided woolly-bear caterpillars (Arctia caja). 



5. Jays, ducks, and moorhens ate caterpillars of the tiger moths, 



Nemeophila plantaginus and Chelonia villica, while chicks, 

 pheasants, and guinea-fowls found them distasteful (p. 43). 



6. Jays ate pupae of Abraxas grossulariata (p. 43), an insect refused 



by most of the captive animals to which it has been offered. 



7. One jay ate a larva of Phalera bucephala, which another jay and 



duckling and chicks refused (p. 43). 



8. Soldier-beetles and ladybirds were avoided (p. 43). 



In No. 2, intrinsic distastefulness is not shown; it is the dry, scaly 

 wings that are objectionable. Nos. 3, 5, and 7 give evidence for 

 both sides of the question, and No. 6 is inconsistent with most other 

 experiments on the same insect. 



The evanescence of some associations concerning food are shown 

 by the following experiment: Bits of orange peel were offered to a 

 young chick that had learned to eat yolk of egg; they were refused, 

 as were also bits of yolk substituted immediately afterward. Sub- 

 sequently the yolk was again tested and accepted (p. 41). 



Another test indicates that in some cases taste cannot be the 

 criterion upon which choice is made. "While small worms are 

 picked up with avidity, large worms are left alone by quite young 

 birds and often evoke the alarm note. None of the chicks on the 

 fifth day dared go near a particularly large worm. Bits of red-brown 

 worsted, somewhat resembling worms, were seized with eagerness 

 and eaten with surprising avidity so long as they were not more than 

 a couple of inches long. Of a four-inch bit the chicks were afraid, 

 until one bolder than the rest, seized it, whereupon the other chased 

 him for the prize till he escaped to a secluded corner and swallowed 

 it "(p. 50). 



An unusual experience with customary food may lead to its rejec- 

 tion, as decisively as if it were " nauseous" and " warningly colored." 

 "Pheasants and partridges, when they seized a worm for the first 

 time, shook it and dashed it against the ground; one of them did so, 

 indeed, with such vigor that he shook himself over, and thereafter 

 could not for some time be induced so much as to look at a worm" 

 (p. 51). "A little pheasant which would run to my hand for wasp 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



larvae placed upon the palm, one morning gave the alarm note, and 

 would not as usual jump upon my fingers. Four or five of the 

 grubs had stuck together so as to form a large mass of which he was 

 afraid!" 



"Moorhen chicks were at first afraid of the common yellow under- 

 wing moth and of the gamma moth, though both were eaten freely 

 after I had given them dead moths" (p. 50). 



"Even protective coloration is of little value if there is movement, 

 so sharp are the eyes of young birds. The caterpillar of the small 

 white butterfly (Pieris rapcc) on a nasturtium leaf, with which its 

 clear green color assimilated well, was picked off by a moorhen chick 

 the moment it moved its head. Recently hatched stick insects 

 (Diapheromera femorata) , which Prof. Poulton gave me, were snapped 

 off the lime leaves directly they moved" (p. 46). 



Prof. Morgan made many tests with bees and wasps, and in 

 summing them up says: "Much .... depends on the nature 

 of initial experience. A bird that has in early days seized a bee 

 with ill effects is shy for a long time, not only of bees, but of moths , 

 large flies, and beetles, while one which is so stung at a later stage is 

 made, perhaps, a little more cautious generally, but the main effect 

 is a particularized one concerning bees or the bee-like drone fly" 

 (p. 54). 



A series of experiments, of much the same nature as Morgan's, 

 but shorter, is described by L. W. Kline. 64 Chicks were tested with 

 earthworms, white boring grubs, cabbage worms, and bits of yellow 

 pine and starched muslin. "They rejected pine wood after a few 

 experiences at the age of three days, but three days later they ate 

 it again, while experience with muslin on the third day was lasting. 

 They were six days getting acquainted with earthworms and eight 

 days with canker [cabbage] worms" (p. 276). 



An excellent article, previously referred to, "The Food of Some 

 British Birds," 65 by Robert Newstead, besides presenting the largest 

 amount of detailed information on its subject, thus far brought 

 forward, contains a short account of an experimental feeding of 

 starlings. Certain food items were placed near a nest in which 

 young were being fed. One centipede (Geophilus longicornis) and 

 one earwig (Forficula auricularia) were refused, although each species 

 had previously been given to the nestlings by the parent birds. Only 



64 " Methods in Animal Psychology " [Chicks], Amer. Journ. of Psychol., 10, 

 1898-9, pp. 265-277. 



M Suppl. Journ. Bd. Agr. [London], XV, No. 9, December, 1908. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 32L 



one of six wood lice (Oniscus asellus) was accepted, and from five to 

 seven green cherries were refused. Both of these items are eaten by 

 adult starlings, thus rounding out to a total the contradictory 

 evidence as to choice of the four items by the same bird under natural 

 and under artificial conditions. 



In 1889 and 1890, Mr. A. G. Butler, whose experiments with 

 lizards are included in the tables of Poulton, previously discussed,, 

 published three articles dealing with the food preferences of captive 

 birds. These included both British and tropical birds, which were 

 kept in large aviaries. The first 66 of Mr. Butler's trio of papers 

 treats only the general results of six years' experimenting. He says: 

 "My experience .... has been that no insect in any stage was 

 ever refused by all the birds; what one bird refused another would 

 eat" (p. 171). In the course of this paper, Mr. Butler casually 

 remarked that for two years he had sent data on the experiments to 

 Mr. Poulton, "not even retaining a copy of my notes, but so far 

 nothing seems to have come of it; I presume, therefore, that my facts 

 have rather tended to mystify than clear the matter up" (p. 171). 

 Poulton seems to have taken deep umbrage at Butler's remarks, 

 as he returned the notes and made a hot reply on pp. 358-360 of the 

 same volume. Butler later published his notes in full, 67 and says:: 

 "Few things ever astonished me more than the hostile attitude which 

 Mr. Poulton assumed with regard to that innocent paper, or the 

 cruel misconstruction which he put upon the most harmless remarks 

 made therein; that my comment touching the repeated reproduction 

 of a few comparatively unimportant observations of my own should 

 have been dislocated into a claim to the origination of Wallace's 



theory is too absurd to be considered seriously I still 



insist that, so long as a few desultory observations are incessantly 

 forced into a front place, it is an evidence of how little has hitherto 

 been done upon which to establish the truth of a theory ; many more 

 observers are wanted, and all their observations must be impartially 

 treated if we are to arrive at exact scientific truth. I was not aware 

 that Mr. Poulton had made a selection of 'the most interesting 

 results' of my recent experiments for publication in the Report of 

 the British Association, or I should not have said 'so far nothing- 

 seems to have come of it'; nevertheless, as it is impossible for any 



66 "A few remarks respecting Insects supposed to be distasteful to Birds," Annals 

 and Mag. of Nat. Hist., Sixth Ser., Vol. IV, 1889, pp. 171-173. 



67 " Notes made during the summer of 1887 on the effect of offering various 

 Insects, Larvse, and Pupae to Birds," I.e., pp. 463-473. 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



one man to judge how far even apparently uninteresting results may 

 eventually tell for or against a theory — as, too, Mr. Poulton has 

 evidently forgotten some of those facts .... I think I cannot do 

 better than publish the whole of my observations in detail" (pp. 

 463, 464). 



"The most interesting results" made use of by Poulton 68 are 

 remarks upon only four species of insects eaten by birds, while 

 Butler's notes deal with at least forty-seven species of insects and 

 other invertebrates. Moreover, without mentioning Butler's results, 

 Poulton discusses the results of his own tests with lizards and a 

 marmoset of three other species of insects, which Butler had fed to 

 birds. Poulton gratuitously observes: "If I had no more notes 

 than those supplied by Mr. Butler, their preparation for publication 

 would be only a work of a few hours; but these notes are a very 

 small fraction of the whole." 69 The fact remains, however, that the 

 large "fraction of the whole," with unimportant exceptions remains 

 unpublished to-day. As a result of this series of experiments, 

 Butler concludes that "no insect in any stage, excepting the red- 

 tailed bumble-bee (which, by the way, I only offered to the missel- 

 thrush), was rejected by all my birds; those insects which were 



refused by certain species were eagerly devoured by others 



In the second place, so far from my birds learning by experience to 

 reject with scorn that which they had proved to be unpalatable, 

 I found that in some instances they seemed to acquire a taste for 

 larvae previously refused. Birds are very intelligent, but their 

 memories are ridiculously short" (p. 473). 



Butler's third paper 70 enumerates tests of 17 invertebrates offered 

 to birds, with the following principal conclusion: "My experiments 

 have convinced me that the tastes of birds not only differ in individ- 

 uals of the same species, but that the same individuals in consecutive 

 years vary as to their likes and dislikes." 



Unfortunately, the experiments of Butler cannot be compared 

 with those of Pocock, who also used British insects and both native 

 and exotic birds, as Butler does not record the number of times an 

 insect was refused or accepted, but only tells what species of birds 

 ate it and which did not. Probably the only coincidence of the same 



68 Rep. British A. A. S., 1887 (1888), pp. 762, 763. 



69 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1889, pp. 359, 360. 



" Notes made during the present year on the Acceptance or Rejection of 

 Insects by Birds," Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., Sixth Ser., Vol. VI, 1890, pp. 

 324-327. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



species of bird tested with the same stage of the same species of 

 insect, in the two sets of experiments, is Leiothrix with larvse of 

 Pieris brassicce. The result in each case was acceptance. 



A. D. Bartlett recounts an experience in rearing young water 

 ouzels which well illustrates the fundamental difference between 

 experimental and natural conditions. He says: 71 



"They had been tried with the usual food for most insect-eating 

 birds, such as scraped beef and hard-boiled eggs, ant eggs, mealworms, 

 spiders, flies, beetles, aquatic snails, shrimps, salmon spawn, and 

 many other mixtures, but all failed, until my clerk and assistant, 

 Mr. Arthur Thomson, who had taken as much interest in rearing 

 these birds as myself, hit upon the idea of scalding the mealworms, 

 and tried it. It was soon apparent that in this condition the meal- 

 worms could be digested, while in a raw or living state they (espe- 

 cially their hard skins) would pass through the birds in a hard and 

 undigested condition. From this moment I had but little trouble. 

 The birds fed greedily upon the half-boiled mealworms, and I soon 

 found them ready to leave the nest." 



Thus these birds did not thrive upon a regimen that included 

 several elements of their natural food, but did well only when the 

 staple food was partially cooked. Mr. Bartlett adds : 



"In May, 1869, I obtained my first living water ouzel. Since 

 that time I have had a great many of these birds. Some of them 

 I reared from the nest, and I fed them upon boiled mealworms, the 

 larvse of the caddis fly and other insect food; but as soon as they 

 were able to feed themselves and took to the water, they caught and 

 fed upon very small fish, especially young minnows. I found them 

 rather expensive pets, having to provide for a family of four, as they 

 caught and devoured several dozen daily, and seemed to prefer live 

 fish to all other food." 



If experimental results could be taken as a guide to natural be- 

 havior, we should conclude from this testimony that water ouzels 

 feed largely on fish. It is worthy of note, therefore, that Newstead 72 

 found no fish in the stomachs he examined. 



In the account 73 of the experiments by Dr. G. Rorig, previously 

 referred to, it is stated that all of the following insects : 



71 Wild Animals in Captivity, 1899, pp. 308-310. 

 n Suppl. Joum. Bd. Agr. Lond., XV, No. 9, December, 1908, p. 25. 

 73 Arb. Biol. Abt. f. Land. u. Forstwirtschaft . K. Gcsandheitsamte, IV, 1903, 

 Heft 1, pp. 34-50. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June,. 



Cnetkocampa pinivora, eggs and larvae; 

 Fidonia piniaria, larvae; 

 Euproctis chrysorrhoea, larvae; 

 Clisiocampa neustria, pupae and adults; 

 Liparis salicis, pupae and adults; 

 Pieris brassicce, pupae and adults; 

 Porthetria dispar, adults; 

 Nematus abietum, larvae; 

 Nematus salicis, larvae, 



were taken eagerly by captive birds, such as titmice, redstarts, 

 kinglets, nuthatches, etc. Although the list includes hairy larvae,, 

 some with urticating hairs, and sawfly larvae which other experi- 

 menters state that birds usually reject, Dr. Rorig does not mention 

 any refusals. We have already quoted his notes on the accept- 

 ance of Pieris brassicce, which has been classed as distasteful. 

 Dr. Rorig's birds also ate plant-lice, Aradus cinnamomeus, Cecidomyia 

 saliciperda, Retinia buoliana, R. turionana, Phyllopertha horticola, and 

 Scolytidce. 



We may note here also the experiment 74 of Dr. Gunther in feeding 

 Meloidae to chickens. He fed the fowls from 1 to 5 grams of Can- 

 tharus daily, until a total of 28, 28, 40.5 and 80.5 g. of the material, 

 was taken by four chickens respectively. One of the birds which 

 ate 28 g. showed symptoms of poisoning; the others remained 

 healthy. Significant amounts of cantharidin were recovered from 

 the bodies of these birds,, and even from eggs laid by them. 



Another German experiment but slightly related to the theory 

 of protective adaptations is recorded 75 by Alexander Bau. The 

 titmice, Parus major and P. communis, accepted in confinement 

 eggs of Liparis monacha, Porthetria dispar, Orgyia spp., and Clisio- 

 campa neustria (p. 69). 



Brief mention should be made of the following: 



*te ■ 



[Donisthorpe, H.] [Experiments with Birds.] Proc. Ent. Soc„ 

 Lond., 1901, p. xiii. 

 Quoted by Rev. Canon Fowler, to the effect that Clythra quadri- 

 punctata, Gonioctena rufipes, and species of Lina were rejected 

 by several species of British and foreign birds in the London 

 Zoological Gardens. All of these beetles were eat^n by a 

 racket-tailed drongo. 



Longstaff, G. B. Experimental evidence as to the Palatabilitv 

 of Butterflies. Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1908, pp. 629-631. 



74 Tierdrztliches Zentralbl, 34, Nr. 18, June 20, 1911, S. 273-276. 



' Nutzen und Schaden tlurch die Vogel; Vogelschutz." In Nalurgeschichte 

 der Deutschen Vogel, by C. G. Friderich, Stuttgart, 1905, pp. 60-76. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



The experiments were performed in Ceylon with Gracula sp., 

 and domestic fowls. "So far as these experiments teach any- 

 thing, it would appear that these mainas would eat with relish 

 Nissanga patina, Yphthima ceylonica, Atella phalanta, Ergolis 

 sp., and Lampides sp. On the other hand, Papilio aristolochice 

 and Crastia asela were distinctly distasteful. The evidence 

 as to the other species experimented with fails to convince me 

 one way or the other" (p. 631). In several of the experiments 

 the birds apparently were not hungry enough to care for any- 

 thing. 



Experiments in Africa. 



In their extensive and interesting paper on the " Bionomics of 

 South African Insects," 76 Marshall and Poulton record the results 

 of experiments with kestrels (Cerchneis rupicoloides and C. naumanni) 

 and a ground horn-bill (Bucorax caffer). 



The experiments with the kestrels (pp. 340-345) are characterized 

 by the average small number of trials of the various insects used. 

 The writer desires to draw attention to only one point in the dis- 

 cussion of these experiments. On p. 346, Poulton says with regard 

 to some supposedly distasteful beetles which the birds had eaten: 

 "It is probable that most of the defensive fluid had been already 

 discharged in the case of the Carabidse of the genera Piezia, Poly- 

 hirma, and Graphipterus, of which the acid secretion was seen to be 

 a very positive protection when there was opportunity for its opera- 

 tion on a normal scale." The "normal scale" referred to was the 

 offering of the beetles tail first! Marshall found these carabids in 

 the stomachs of certain wild birds, and in discussing this Poulton 

 says the fact is not remarkable, as "the defensive secretions may be 

 discharged and lost as the result of the attacks of an experienced 

 enemy" (p. 353). This better illustrates action on a "normal 

 scale." 



The ground horn-bill experimented upon by Marshall (pp. 347- 

 348) ate all butterflies offered it, including several of the reputed 

 "protected" forms, with the exception of two specimens of Limnas 

 (Danais) chrysippus. Poulton, therefore, remarks: "It has already 

 been pointed out that the acceptance of insects by insectivorous 

 animals in captivity is no proof of their normal likes or dislikes in a 



wild state Hence the fact the Acrseas were devoured is.no 



evidence that thej- are normally eaten except in a time of unusual 

 hunger" (p. 348). Marshall, 77 however, says: "The bird was 



76 Trms. Ent. Soc. Loud., 1902, pp. 287-504. 

 ~ Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1908, p. 139. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



entirely unconfined, and wandered at will searching for its food just 

 like his wild relatives on the next hillside, with only this exception, 

 if insects, etc., were scarce, the .... bird always got additional 

 food at the house. The conditions of the experiment, therefore, 

 render it highly improbable that the hornbill was eating insects 

 which it would normally reject, and its whole demeanor was quite 

 at variance with such a supposition." 



It is apparent that experts may draw very different conclusions 

 from the same experimental data, a fact among many which points 

 to the conclusion that the results of stomach examination are the 

 only reliable criteria regarding bird food. 



Experiments in Asia. 



No experiments are more widely quoted than those performed by 

 Frank Finn while Deputy Superintendent of the Indian Museum, 

 Calcutta. Only those of Pocock are more extensive, and they were 

 performed under much more artificial conditions. The results of 

 Finn's experiments on birds are published in the Journal of the 

 Asiatic Society of Bengal, as follows: 



No. I. Experiments with a Babbler (Crateropus canorus). Vol. 64, 

 1895 (1896), Pt. 2, pp. 344-356. 



No. IV. Experiments with various Birds. Summary and con- 

 clusions. Vol. 66, 1897 (1898), Pt. II, pp. 613-668. 



The birds used in these experiments were : 



Pekin robin Leiothrix luteus. 



Common babbler Crateropus canorus. 



Red-whiskered bulbul Otocompsa emeria. 



Common bulbul Molpastes bengalensis. 



Yellow-vented bulbul Molpastes leucotis. 



White-crested bulbul Pycnonotus sinensis. 



Green bulbul Chloropsis sp. 



White-eye Zosterops sp. 



Sibia Malacias capistrata. 



Mesia Mesia argentauris. 



Button quail ■.. Turnix taigoor. 



Bhimraj Dissemurus paradiseus 



King-crow Dicrurus ater. 



Shama Kittacincla macroura. 



Indian starling Sturnus menzbieri. 



Mynah Acridotheres tristis. 



Black and white hornbill Anthracoceros sp. 



The Zosterops, probably because of their small size, played a^very 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



minor part in the experiments, caged as they were with a variety 

 of larger birds; the Mesia had an exceedingly brief trial, and the 

 Anthracoceros was tested principally with dead and dry insects left 

 over from experiments with other birds. Finn remarks that of two 

 individuals of this last species, one did not care for insects at all; 

 the other on some occasions had to be coerced into eating insects 

 of the supposedly palatable kinds. 



In commenting upon the significance of his experiments Finn puts 

 an emphasis on order of choice between insects, which the writer 

 does not consider justifiable. These as all other experiments are 

 to determine what will be eaten, and the fact that insects not eaten 

 in the presence of the experimenter, as a rule, were devoured before 

 his next visit or the next morning, shows the futility of drawing fine 

 distinctions as to apparent preferences. 



More than 123 butterflies which were left in the cages were eaten 

 in the absence of the experimenter or by birds not specified, and 

 more than 77 per cent, of them belonged to the "nauseous" group. 

 About seventy-two butterflies remained uneaten overnight, though 

 it should be remarked that many of these were taken later the next 

 day. Of the seventy-two, about 85 per cent, belonged to the "nau- 

 seous" group, a percentage practically no different than in the case 

 of those eaten. It is worthy of note that the number of butterflies 

 left uneaten is definitely stated in every case, while those eaten are 

 often included in general terms, as "some," "several," etc. In 

 making these calculations, "some" has been reckoned as two; 

 undoubtedly it sometimes meant more. These expressions occur 

 nineteen times for the "nauseous" group among the butterflies 

 eaten in the absence of experimenter, only once for the "palatable" 

 group, and not at all in the case of butterflies left over. Hence 

 there is no doubt as implied above that the proportions of these 

 groups are about the same in the butterflies eaten as in those left 

 over. 



In the following table are shown the approximate numbers of 

 acceptances and rejections upon trial of both the "nauseous" and 

 "palatable" groups of insects. Species of the former group used are 

 Acrcea violce, Danais chrysippus, D. genutia, D. limniace, Delias 

 eucharis, Euploea sp., Euproctis sp., Mylabris sp., Papilio aristo- 

 lochice, and Terias sp. The principal species of the "palatable" 

 group are Catopsilia sp., Junonia sp., Elymnias undularis, Papilio 

 demoleus, P. polites, Huphina phryne, Hypolimnas misippus, Nephe- 

 ronia hippia, Atella phalanta, and Neptis kamarupa. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Nauseous. 



A. R. 



Crateropus canorus 111+ 36 



Leiothrix luteus 52 22 



Dissemurus paradiseus 30+ 22 



Dicrurus ater 17 2 



Kittacincla macroura 21 28 



Sturnus menzbieri 17 16 



Chloropsis sp 6 5 



Malarias capistrata 



Otocompsa emeria 79 21 7 



Molpastes bengalensis 79 15 1 



Molpastes leucotis 15 



Pycnonotus sinensis 7 9 



Turnix taigoor 29 1 



Acridotheres tristis 2 . 1 



343+ 150 471 72 



Finn's conclusions may be discussed in order: 



1. "That there is a general appetite for butterflies among insec- 

 tivorous birds, even though they are rarely seen when wild to attack 

 them" (p. 667). 



This is a thing which can never be proven by experiment. As 

 well say there is a general appetite for boiled rice, bread and milk, 

 and domestic cockroaches which were the stock foods of the birds 

 used in these experiments. Certainly, these things are no more 

 foreign to the natural dietaries of many species of birds than are 

 butterflies, and the eating of either in captivity is no proof that they 

 are taken or even relished by wild birds. This argument is strength- 

 ened by the record of the button-quail (Turnix taigoor) in Finn's 

 experiments. This essentially ground-loving bird, which is in no 

 way equipped for capturing butterflies under natural conditions, 

 and consequently cannot have an appetite for them, in captivity 

 took all but four out of a total of fifty-three that it tried. 



Mason and Lefroy, in the most comprehensive and valuable 

 statement yet published regarding the food of birds in India, say: so 

 "Butterflies do not form any appreciable proportion of the food of 



78 Finn records the refusal of Acrosa by the red-whiskered bulbul (p. 640), 

 while Poulton (Proc. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1908, p. xxxi) publishes a letter from H. L. 

 Andrewes, which states that this bird was observed to feed to its young Acrcea 

 violce, supposedly one of the most distasteful of the group. 



79 An interesting case of the diversity in results of experiments, and a proof, 

 therefore, of their misleading character, probably refers to this bird, the common 

 bulbul of India. A. G. Butler (Nature, 3, No. 61, December 29, 1870, p. 165) 

 notes that a Mr. Newton, of Bombay, said it was only by repeated persecution 

 that a caged bulbul was induced to touch a Danais. The record of this bird 

 with Danais in Finn's experiments is A 8 R 4. 



80 Mem. Dept. Agr. India, Ent. Ser., Vol. Ill, January, 1912, p. 338. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 32 ) 



any one species of bird, though a good many birds take these insects 

 at times. A long series of experiments with regard to birds taking 

 protectively colored or distasteful insects and especially butterflies 



was made by Mr. Finn They have little importance to 



economic ornithology, since most of the experiments were conducted 

 with caged birds, these, therefore, being under unnatural conditions." 



2. "That many, probably most species, dislike, if not intensely, 

 at any rate in comparison with other butterflies, the "warningly 

 colored" Danainse, Acrcea violce, Delias eucharis, and Papilio aristo- 

 lochice; of these the last being the most distasteful and the Danainse 

 the least so" (p. 667). 



By consulting the tabulation of acceptances and rejections given 

 above, it will be seen that only two out of fourteen species of birds 

 considerably experimented with failed to take as many or more 

 insects of the "nauseous" group than they refused, and that seven 

 of these fourteen species' refused as large or a larger proportion of 

 the "palatable" butterflies as of the "nauseous" ones. Conse- 

 quently the assertion in Conclusion 2, at least as regards the Dan- 

 ainse, is not borne out even under experimental conditions; it should 

 read, about half of the species of birds considerably experimented 

 with showed in captivity a greater or less degree of preference for 

 butterflies of the "palatable" group. The figures show that about 

 30 per cent, of all "nauseous" butterflies tested were refused, as were 

 about 13 per cent, of the "palatable" ones. About 23 per cent, of the 

 Danais (average of three species) and of the Euplceas were rejected, 

 proportions nearly as small or smaller than in the case of at least three 

 species of the so-called palatable group, namely, Papilio demoleus, 25 

 per cent.; Atella phalanta, 22 per cent.; and Elymnias undalaris, 24 

 per cent. 



The approximate numbers of refusals and acceptances and the 



percentage of refusals for the important species of both groups are 



given below: 



"Nauseous" group. 



A. R. %R. 



Danais chrysippus 136+ 38 21.8 



" genutia 59+ 23 28 



" limniace 38+ 9 19.1 



Delias eucharis 13 19 59.3 



Euplcea sp 53 16 22.8 



Euproctis sp 11 2 15.3 



Mylabris sp 1+ 1 50 



Papilio aristolochice 17 33 . 66 



Terias sp 11 4 26.6 



Acrcea violce 3 5 62.5 



22 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June r 



"Palatable" group. 



Atella phalanta 16 6 22.7 



Elymnias undularis «* r 25 8 24.2 



Hypoli?nnas misippus 13 1 7.1 



Nepheronia hippia 12 1 7.6 



Papilio demoleus 69 24 25.8 



" polites.. 55 12 17.9 



3. That the mimics of these are at any rate relatively palatable 

 and that the mimicry is commonly effectual under natural condi- 

 tions" (p. 667). 



According to the figures obtained by me, the mimics, Hypolimnas- 

 misippus and Nepheronia hippia were each rejected once in thirteen and 

 twelve trials, respectively, an average of about 7 per cent., or much 

 under the average for the ''palatable" group as a whole, while about 

 18 per cent, of the Papilio polites and 24 per cent, of the Elymnias 

 undularis were refused, fully as large a proportion as in the case of 

 several members of the "nauseous" group. 



There is no more evidence for the latter half of this conclusion 

 than that any other features of the experiments are analogous to 

 natural conditions. 



As noted above, the experiments and conclusions of Finn are often 

 quoted in support of the selectionist theories, and Finn himself in 

 summing up this earlier work says: "On the whole, the theory of 

 Wallace and Bates is supported by the facts detailed in this and 

 former papers, so far as they deal with birds. (and the one mammal 

 used)" (pp. 667, 668). 



It is of great interest, therefore, to note that the builder of these 

 oft-sought bulwarks of the selectionists later came to the opinion 

 that neither they, nor any other of the defenses brought forward, 

 would save the day for the selection theories. In collaboration with 

 Douglass Dewar, in a book entitled The Making of Species (1909). 

 he says: "Many naturalists, especially Dr. Wallace and Prof. 

 Poulton, have pushed the various theories of animal coloration to 



absurd lengths (p. 171) We have examined these mighty 



images of gold, and silver, and brass, and iron, and found that there 

 is much clay in the feet " (p. 172) .... What we "know of the 

 struggle for existence offers but poor support to the Neo-Darwinian 

 explanation of the cases of the so-called mimicry in nature" 

 (p. 240). 



As a result of his experience with captive birds, Finn recommends 

 that future experimenters use birds in a state of freedom, and at 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



least one experimenter, Lieut. -Col. Neville Manders, has done so. 

 Manders himself says: "I am extremely doubtful as to any real 

 value accruing from experiments on caged birds, whether nestlings or 

 adult. No one, I imagine, believes that all butterflies taste alike; 

 no doubt some are more tasty than others, and caged birds fed upon 

 butterflies, even with other insect food, would no doubt learn in 

 time to distinguish the different kinds ; but this procedure to my mind 

 begs the question, as it assumes that butterflies are an ordinary 

 article of food in the wild state, a proposition .... which the 

 evidence .... does not altogether support." 81 It is noteworthy 

 that the free birds Manders did induce to take disabled butterflies 

 were not seen by him to attack these insects under normal con- 

 ditions. He frequently comments (pp. 736-739, 741) on this fact. 

 Although the birds ate the helpiess butterflies, they took no notice 

 of the freely flying ones that abounded in the vicinity. 



The wild birds experimented upon in Ceylon by Manders, with 



their records, are as follows: (Disregarded — D. — means simply 



not taken and not tried. Behavior toward dead butterflies not 



noted) . 



Nauseous Palatable 



group. group. 



A. R. D. A. R. D. 



Robin flycatcher, Siphia hyperythra 2 2 6 1 



Dusky-blue " Stoparola sordida 7 2 4 



Brown shrike, Lanius cristatus 4 7 4 5 



Magpie robin, Copsychus saularis. ... 10 3 4+ 21+0 6 



Mynah, Acridotheres tristis 110 1 5 1 



34 3 14+ 38+ 17 



Thus there were no refusals (upon trial) of any living butterflies 

 except by the magpie robin. This bird has three rejections, two of 

 Euplcea core, one of which it ate immediately afterwards. The 

 bird's record with this butterfly was A 9 R 2. Manders says the 

 other butterfly (Terias hecabe) refused by this species was too dry. 

 The percentage of insects disregarded is practically the same for the 

 "nauseous" and the "palatable" groups. Manders' conclusion from 

 this and other evidence is that "the terms palatable and unpalatable 

 are not justified at present" (I.e., p. 742). 



Experiments in America. 

 Unfortunately, the natural food habits of many of the Indian, 



81 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., September, 1911, p. 745. 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



African, and British birds experimented with are not well known, 

 for the selectionists have examined very few stomachs of wild birds. 

 This method is more arduous and does not pile up results so hand- 

 somely as do experiments. But it is, nevertheless, in connection 

 with the strictly correlated examination of contents of other parts 

 of the alimentary canal, and of pellets, and faeces (together with 

 reliable records of individuals seen or collected with food in talon or 

 beak), the only trustworthy method of learning what birds actually 

 eat under natural conditions. And this information only is accep- 

 table proof of the tastes and food preferences of birds or, for that 

 matter, of any other animals. 



It is fortunate, therefore, that one series of experiments has been 

 made the results of which can be closely checked with a satisfactory 

 amount of exact information upon the food habits of the same species 

 under natural conditions. 



Experiments by Judd and Beal. 



The experiments referred to have never been published upon as a 

 whole, though some of the results may be found in the following 

 publications : 



Beal, F. E. L. The Bluejay and its Food. Yearbook U. S. Dept. 



Agr., 1896 (1897), pp. 205, 206. 

 Birds of California in relation to the Fruit Industry. Part I, 



Bui. 30, Biol. Survey, 1907, p. 35. 

 Judd, Sylvester D. Four common Birds of the Farm and Garden. 



Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agr., 1895 (1896), pp. 410, 414. 

 The Efficiency of some Protective Adaptations in securing 



Insects from Birds. Am. Nat., 33, No. 390, June, 1899, pp. 



461-484. . 

 The relation of Sparrows to Agriculture. Bui. 15, Biological 



Survey, 1901, pp. 45-48. 

 The Bobwhite and other Quails of the United States in their 



economic relations. Bui. 21, Biological Survey, 1905, pp. 



28, 29, 36, 38, 40, 41, 44-45. 



Doctor Judd was at one time yery enthusiastic with regard to 

 experiments in feeding birds, and these experiments were initiated 

 and largely carried on by him. They were watched, however, and 

 in part performed by Prof. F. E. L. Beal, the veteran economic 

 ornithologist, who has examined the contents of more bird stomachs 

 than any other person in the world. Prof. Beal was mainly respon- 

 sible for the discontinuance of these experiments, and I am betraying 

 no secret in asserting that experimental ornithology was abandoned 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



by the United States Biological Survey because of a direct realization 

 from these trials of the futility of experiments as indications of the 

 food preferences and, therefore, of the economic status of species 

 under natural conditions. 



It is not the writer's purpose to give a detailed account of these 

 experiments, but merely lists of the items accepted and rejected, with 

 comments thereon. It will be helpful to consider separately those 

 items which were both refused and devoured. Several discrepancies 

 exist between the statistics here presented and the published accounts 

 previously referred to, but the writer has made the following tabula- 

 tions directly from notebooks containing daily entries regarding 

 the experiments. He believes these should be accepted as correct, 

 rather than statements in the printed pages that have run the gantlet 

 of editors and proof-readers, whose efforts often have just the oppo- 

 site result, so far as accuracy is concerned, from that which the 

 exercise of their true functions is intended to insure. 



To interpret the bearing of this and the following experiments on 

 the theory of protective adaptations, it should be recalled that the 

 common types of what is called warning coloration are the combina- 

 tions of black with red, yellow, and white. Metallic colors also are 

 usually classed as warning. Besides the insects, etc., possessing 

 these colors, other groups, for various reasons, are said to be specially 

 defended. Among these are ground beetles (Carabidse), many of 

 which have acid and nauseous secretions; the true bugs (Hemiptera), 

 nearly all pungently flavored and malodorous ; ants, and the stinging 

 wasps and bees (Hymenoptera) ; the spiders and centipeds with 

 poison fangs; and the millipeds with acid juices. All of these crea- 

 tures are supposed to be especially protected from the attacks of 

 predaceous animals or, in other words, to be distasteful. 



To bring out clearly the attitude of Judd's captive birds toward 

 these categories of "protected" animals, the writer has tabulated 

 the results (as regards the animal food only) of each series (except 

 the shorter ones) of experiments under the following headings: 

 "warningly colored" species, others "specially defended," and 

 "non-protected" species. Of course, the term "non-protected" 

 is not in accordance with the theories of protective adaptations, as 

 the more obscurely colored and innoxious forms thus described are 

 also said to be protected, but chiefly in a more passive way than the 

 other two groups, namely, by concealing coloration. "Non-pro- 

 tected" is therefore used to bring into greater contrast the theoretical 

 attributes of these comparatively poorly "protected" species. 




334 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Bobwhite (Colinus virginianus) : 82 — 



Accepted: 



Ch^etopoda. 



Earthworms. 

 coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. • 



Scarites subterraneus (black). 



Harpalus erythropus (black, reddish legs). 



CoCCINELLIDiE. 



Adalia bipunctata (red, black, and yellow). 

 Epilachna borealis (yellow and black). 



SCARAB^EID^E. 



Li gyrus gibbosus (red-brown). 

 Chrysomelid^e. 



Diabrotica 12-punctata (yellow and black), 2 + . 

 Diabrotica vittata (yellow and black), 2 + . 

 Leptinotarsa decemlineata (yellow and black), three birds 

 ate fifty in five minutes. 

 Lepidoptera. 



PlERID^E. 



Pieris rapce larvae (green, black, and yellow), 2. 



SPHINGIDiE. 



Phlegethontius sp. larvae (green and white), 2. 

 Noctuid^:. 



Agrotis sp. larva. 

 Rejected: 



COLEOPTERA. 



COCCINELLID.E. 



Chilocorus bivulnerus (black and red). 



MELOID.E. 



Melee angusticollis (dark blue or violet, vesicant body 

 fluids). 



HOMOPTERA. 

 APHID.E. 



Hymenoptera. 



Tenthredinid^e, larvae. 



82 Partial account of these experiments in Bui. 21, Biol. Survey, 1905, pp. 28-29, 

 36, 38, 40, 41, 44-45. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Thus these bobwhites ate, among other things, three species of 

 •strongly flavored yellow and black Chrysomelidse, or leaf beetles, 

 and two species of equally if not more pungent Coccinellidse or 

 ladybirds, whose colors of yellow and black and red, black, and 

 yellow are typically "warning." On the other hand, the birds 

 refused one red and black ladybird. It is evident considerations as 

 to color of prey have little weight with the quail. It is worthy of 

 note also that although these birds refused plant lice, birds experi- 

 mented upon by Mrs. Margaret M. Nice ate large numbers of these 

 insects. 



Mrs. Nice's experiments upon bobwhites 83 which have previously 

 been reviewed 84 by the writer clearly bring out the fact that birds 

 will eat in captivity insects which they probably never eat or in 

 some cases never even see in their normal existence. Examples are: 

 house-flies (Musca domestica) and mosquitoes; 1350 and 568 of 

 these insects, respectively, were taken at single meals, but undoubtedly 

 they are seldom if ever eaten by wild bobwhites. Silver fish (Lepisma 

 saccharina), clothes moths (Tinea pellionella), and mealworms 

 (Tenebrio) also were eaten by the captive quail, but wild birds 

 probably never have a chance to get these close associates of man. 



The writer does not list the results of Judd's trials of quail with 

 various vegetable foods, but only one item was refused, namely, 

 strawberries. These are eaten by wild bobwhites and Judd com- 

 ments 85 on the fact as follows: "M. B. Waite reports that near 

 Odenton, Md., it sometimes picks ripening strawberries. Yet 

 birds that were kept in captivity several months refused straw- 

 berries when they were hungry." 



Broadwinged Hawk (Buteo platypterus) . — 



Accepted: 



Lepidoptera. 



Basilona imperialis imago (yellow and purplish-brown). 

 Bartrachia. 



Bufo sp. 



Aves. 



MlCROPODID^E. 



Chcetura pelagica (fuscous). 



83 " Food of the Bob white." By Margaret Morse Nice, Journ. of Economic 

 Entomology, Vol. 3, No. 3, June, 1910, pp. 295-313. 



84 Journ. Economic Ent., Vol. 3, No. 5, October, 1910, pp. 437-438. 

 « Bui. 21, Biol. Survey, 1905, p. 36. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [JlHie, 



Fringillid^e. 



Passer domesticus (nestlings), 3. 



There is no record of a refusal by this bird. The toad is supposed 

 to be protected by acrid secretions of glands in the skin. 



Ruby-throated Hummingbird (Archilochus colubris) : — 



Rejected: 



Small Aphidse. 

 " Jassidae. 

 " Culicidse. 

 " Other Diptera. 

 " Halticinse. 

 " Araneida. 



The leaf hoppers (Jassidae), small flies (Diptera), flea-beetles 

 (Halticinse), and spiders (Araneida), at least, are common articles in 

 the natural diet of this species. 



Bluejay (Cyanocitta cristata) : 86 — 

 Accepted: 



CHiETOPODA. 



Earthworms, 7. 



ISOPODA. 



Oniscus asellus, 6. 



Chilopoda. 



Lithobiiis sp., 2. 



Julus sp., 2. 

 Ephemerida. 



Adults, many. 



Orthoptera. 

 acridiid^e. 



Dissosteira Carolina, 1. 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Agonoderus pallipes (pale yellow and black), 1. 

 Anisodactylus discoideus (black and brownish-yellow), 2. 



" rusticus (brownish-black), 2. 



Calosoma scrutator (metallic green, red, and blue), 1. 

 Chlcenius sp., 1. 



Galerita janus (black and reddish-brown), 2. 

 Harpalus caliginosus (black), 1. 



86 Partial account in Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agr., 1896 (1897), pp. 205, 206. 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 337 



Elaterid^e. 



Alaus oculatus (black and silvery, with eye-spots). • 

 Elaterid, adult, 1. 

 Elaterid, larva, 1. 



ScARAB.EIDjE. 



Allorhina nitida (green and yellow), 1. 



LUCANID.E. 



Passalus cornutus (black), 2. 



Cerambycid.e. 



Typocerus sinuatus (black with yellow bands), 5. 



CHRYSOMELID.E. 



Diabrotica 12-punctdta (yellow with black spots), 1. 



TENEBRIONID.E. 



Nyctobates pennsylvanicus (black), 1. 

 Tenebrio obscuras (dark reddish-brown), 1. 

 Tenebrionid undet., 1. 

 Heteroptera. 



pentatomid.e. 



Brochymena sp., 1. 



Lepidoptera. 



Philosamia cynthia. (yellow and purplish-brown), 3 (alive 



and dead). 

 Telea polyphemus ad. (mainly reddish-brown, white and 



black, eye spots on each pair of wings), 1. 

 Orgyia leucostigma, pupae, 2. 

 Hyphantria cunea, larvae (very hairy), many. 

 Hairy caterpillar, undet., 1. 

 Cutworm, 1. 



Hymenoptera. 

 Apina, 2. 



Agapostemon sp. (metallic green), 1. 



Araneida. 



Spider, 1. 



Aves. 



phasianid.e. * 



Egg shells. 

 Fringillid^e. 



English sparrow eggs, 2. 



Rejected: 



Orthoptera. 



Blattid^e. 



' Stylopyga orientalis (black). 



Heteroptera. 



Belostomatid^e. 



Benacus griseus (light brown). 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



coleoptera. 



Lampyrid^e. 



Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus (yellow and black), 3. 



Chrysomelid^e. 



Chrysochus auratus (metallic green and coppery). 



Lepidoptera. 



Papilionid^e. 



Papilio troilus adult (dark red-brown, white, and bluish- 

 green) . 



PULMONATA. 

 LlMACID,E. 



Limax sp. 



Aves. 



PhASIANIDjE. 



Hen's egg (whole). 



FrINGILLIDjE. 



Passer domesticus (alive), in cage three days. 

 Mammalia. 

 Murid^e. 



Mus musculus (alive). 

 Spermatophyta. 



MORACE^E. 



Morus sp. (berry), 2. 

 Aquifoliace^e. 



Ilex opaca, berry (red), 2. 



Disregarded: 



Coleoptera. 



Coccinellid^e. . 



Adalia bipunctata (red, black, and yellow), 2. 

 Hippodamia sp., 1. 



.Chrysomelid^e. 



Galerucella luteola (yellow and black), 3. 



Lepidoptera. 



Papilionid^e. 



Papilio turnus ad. Killed, dropped when frightened by 

 observer, not picked up (mainly yellow and black), 1. 



Hymenoptera. 

 Apina. 



Apis mellifera, worker (brown), 1. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Fagace^e. 



Fagus grandifolia, nuts. 



MYRTACEiE. 



Citrus sp., whole fruit. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Accepted and Rejected: 

 Orthoptera. 

 Gryllid^b. 



Gryllus sp., A 1 11 1. 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid.e. 



Scarites subterraneus (black), A 2 R 1. 

 Hydrophilid^e. 



Hydrophilus triangularis (shining greenish-black), A 2 R 2. 



ScARAB^IDiE. 



Ligyrus gibbosus (reddish-brown), A 17 R 2. 

 Hymenoptera. 



Bombus sp., A 1 R 1. 



Xylocopa virginica, worker (black with yellow hairs), 

 A 1 R 1, male A 1. 



Mammalia. 

 Murid;e. 



Mus musculus (dead), A 3 R 1. 



Accepted and Disregarded: 



COLEOPTERA. 



SCARAB,EID,E. 



Lachnosterna sp. (reddish-brown), A 3 D 2. 

 Hymenoptera. 



MYRMICIDiE. 



Tetramorium caspitum (a minute reddish ant), A 1, D many. 



Accepted, Rejected, and Disregarded: 

 Orthoptera. 

 Blattid^e. 



Blattella germanica (vellow-brown and dark brown), 

 A 16+ R 1 D 1. 

 Coleoptera. 



SCARAB^EIDiE. 



Dyscinetus trachypygus (black), A 5 R2 D 2. 

 Lepidoptera. 



Philosamia cynthia, cocoons. One pecked, could not be 

 opened, was left; two others disregarded were after- 

 wards eaten when cut open. 



Spermatophyta. 

 Fagace^e. 



Quercus sp. (acorns), A 8+ D several, R. 



Disregarded and Refused: 



Coleoptera. 



Leptinotarsa decemlineata (yellow and black), D 1 R 2. 

 Lepidoptera. 



Colias philodice ad. (yellow and black), D 2 R 1. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Summary: Cyanocitta cristata. — 



[June, 



"Warningly colored" species 

 Others "specially defended". 

 "Non-protected" species 



Accepted, rejected Disregarded and 

 and disregarded. rejected. 



Spe- 

 cies. 





 

 3 



Specimens. ^P e ~ Specimens. 



A R D 







24+4 5 



2 

 

 



D3 

 

 



R3 

 

 



Imagos of Philosamia cynthia, at least, among the things ac- 

 cepted are seldom or never encountered by wild bluejays. This 

 species was imported with its food plant Ailanthus glandulosus, and 

 is established in very few places. The cocoons of this species could 

 not be opened by the jay, but when opened for him the pupae were 

 eaten. Of the items refused, hen's eggs are all too often attacked 

 by wild birds ; living birds and mice are frequently killed and eaten, 

 and mulberries also are eaten under natural conditions. 



Among things both accepted and rejected, crickets (Gryllus) and 

 May-beetles (Laclino sterna) are commonly devoured by free birds. 

 The carabid Scarites also has been found in the stomach of this 

 species. Beechnuts were disregarded by the captive jay, and acorns 

 were both disregarded and refused, though some were afterwards 

 eaten. Both of these nuts are frequently eaten by wild jays. These 

 instances in themselves are sufficient to show that acceptances and 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



rejections by captive birds are no guide to the natural tastes of the 

 species. 



English Sparrow (Passer domesticus) :— 

 Accepted: 



COLEOPTERA. 



SCARAB,EID;E. 



Ldgyrus gibbosus (reddish-brown), 1. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Gramin^e. 



Panicum sanguinale. 



Chcetochloa italica. 



Chcetochloa viridis. 

 Chenopodiace.e. 



Chenopodium album. 

 Ambrosiace^e. 



A mbrosia a Hem isia 'folia . 



Rejected: 



Heteroptera. 

 Pentatomid.e. 



Brockymena arborea (dark brown) , 1 . 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Cichoriace.e. 



Taraxacum taraxacum (heads with akenes). 



Accepted and Rejected: 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Amaranthace.e. 



Amaranthus sp. Refused at 9 A.M. when hungry, but 

 eaten at 11 same morning. 



The fruiting heads of dandelion which were refused are a favorite 

 natural food; and Amaranthus seeds, which were refused but eaten 

 two hours later, are commonly eaten by wild birds of this species. 



Snowbird (J unco kyemalis) : 87 — 



Accepted: 



Orthoptera. 



Encoptolophus sordidus (brown). 



Rejected: 



COLEOPTERA. 



COCCINELLID.E. 



Adalia bipunctata (red, yellow, and black). 



SCARAB.EID.E. 



Dyscinetus trachypygus (black). 



87 Partial account of experiments with this and the following two species in 

 Bid. 15, Biol. Survey, 1901, pp. 45-48. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Chrysomelid,e. 



Lema trilineata (yellow and black). 



MELOIDiE. 



Epicauta sp. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Chenopodiace^e. 



Chenopodium sp. (seeds). 



The latter seeds are a common natural food. 

 White-throated Sparrow (Zonotrichia albicollis) : — 



Accepted: 



Heteroptera. 

 Pentatomid.e. 



Murgantia histrionica (orange and black). 



Other acceptances and rejections same as with Junco, and same 

 remark applies. 



Song Sparrow (Melospiza melodia) : — 



Accepted: 



Neuroptera. 

 Chrysopid^e. 



Chrysopa sp., 1. 

 Orthoptera. 



Encoptolophus sordidus (brown), 1. 

 coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Amara sp., 2. 



Anisodactylus terminatus (dark brown to greenish-black), 1. 

 Harpalus pennsylvanicus (black), 1. 

 Nebria pallipes (black, legs yellow), 1. 

 Platynus sp., 2. 

 Pterostichus sayi (green), 3. 

 Trogositid^e. 



Trogosita virescens (metallic green or blue), 1. 



CURCULIONID^E. 



Sitones sp., 2. 



HOMOPTERA. 



Jassid^e (nymphs and adults), 3. 

 Heteroptera. 

 Lyg,eid,e, 1. 

 Reduviid,e, 1. 

 Lepidoptera. 

 papilionid.e. 



Papilio turnus, ad. (mainly yellow and black), 1. 

 Moths, 2. 

 Araneida. 



Spider, 1. 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 343 



Spermatophyta. 

 Caryophyllace,e. 



Alsine media (seeds). 



Rejected: 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid.-e. 



Various Harpini were refused, but later Harpalus penn- 

 sylvanicus was eaten. 



COCCTNELLID^E. 



Adalia bipunctata (red, black, and yellow), 1. 

 Hippodamia sp., 2. 



SCARAB^EIDiE. 



Allorhina nitida (green and yellow). 



Lachnosterna sp. 

 Chrysomelid^e. 



Diabrotica 12-punctata (yellow and black), several. 



Lema trilineata (yellow and black). 

 Meloid.e. 



Epicauta sp. 

 Lepidoptera. 

 Arctiid.e. 



Leucarctia acroea, ad. (white, yellow, and black). 

 Hymenoptera. 

 formicid.e. 



Black ant, probably Camponotus. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Chenopodiace.e. 



Chenopodium sp. 



PoLYGONACEuE. 



Polygonum sp. 



Accepted and Rejected: 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Agonoderus pallipes (pale yellow and black), ate 2, refused 



others, but next day ate 15 in three minutes. 

 Chiasmus sp., A 1 R 1. 



SCARAB.EID.E. 



Dyscinetus trachypygus (black), A 1 R 1. 

 Trox sp., A 1 R 2. * 

 Spermatophyta. 



AmARANTHACEjE. 



Amaratithus sp. Refused at first, finally starved into 

 eating it. 

 Cichoriace.e. 



Taraxacum taraxacum. The opened fruiting head was' 

 accepted at the only trial, the closed involucres were 

 at first refused; several days afterwards 3 were eaten. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Summary: Melospiza melodia. — 



[June, 



In rejecting the seeds of Chenopodium and Polygonum this bird 

 refused two favorite items of the food of wild members of its species; the 

 bird was only starved into eating Amaranthus seeds, another favorite 

 natural food. Of the rejected insects, Camponotus, Diabrotica, Hippo- 

 damia, and Lachnosterna have been found in collected stomachs. The 

 acceptances include at least one insect, Papilio turnus, which the 

 bird probably never gets under natural conditions. The experi- 

 menter noted that this butterfly would have easily escaped the bird 

 had it not been confined. 



Little Butcherbird (Lanius ludovicianus) : 88 — 



Accepted: 



Chilopoda. 



Lithobius sp., 1. 

 Orthoptera. 

 acridiid.e. 



Hippiscus sp., 2. 



COLEOPTERA. 



SCARAB^EID^E. 



Copris Carolina (black), 1. 

 Lachnosterna sp., 1. 



Ligyrus gibbosus (dead) (reddish-brown), 1. 

 Osmoderma sp., 1. 



Trichius piger (greenish-black, reddish-brown, white; both 

 white and yellow hairs), 1. 



CERAMBYCID.E. 



Monohammus sp., 1. 

 Meloid^e. 



Meloe americana (bluish-black, vesicating juices), 1. 

 Heteroptera. 

 Pentatomid^e. 



Euschistus sp., 1. 



Nezara hilaris (green), 1. 



88 Partial account in Bui. SO, Biol. Survey, 1907, p. 35. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



BELOSTOMATID.E. 



Belostoma americanum (light brown), 1. 

 Lepidoptera. 



Ceratomia catalpce larva (black and yellow), 2. 



Estigmene acrcea, ad. (white, yellow, and black), 2. 



Euvanessa antiopa, ad. (reddish-brown, light blue, and 

 yellow), 2. 

 Diptera. 



Calliphora sp., 2. 

 Pisces. 



Goldfish, 1. 



Micropterus salmoides, 1. 

 Urodela. 



Plethodon cinereus erythronotns (brown and red). 



Plethodon glutinosus (black and white), 1. 

 Reptilia. 



Storeria dekayi (grayish-brown and black), 1. 



Heterodon platyrhinus (yellow or reddish and brown or 

 black), 1. 



Sceloporus undidatus (gray or brown and black), 1. 

 Aves. 



Fringillid^e. 



Passer domesticus? 3. 



, VlREONID^E. 



Vireo olivaceus, 4. 



TrOGLODYTIDjE. 



Telmatodytes palustris (dead), 1. 

 Mammalia. 



Mus musculus, 5. 



Rejected: 



coleoptera. 

 Erotylid^e. 



Megalodacne heros (black and yellow), 1. 

 Lampyrid^e. 



Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus (yellow and black), 1. 

 Chrysomelid^e. 



Diabrotica 12-punctata (yellow and black), 4. 

 Meloid^e. 



Epicauta vittata (yellow and black), 1. 

 Heteroptera. 

 Pentatomid^e. 



Murgantia histrionica (yellow and black), 1. 

 Lepidoptera. 



Euvanessa antiopa larva (black, spiny), 1, pupa 1. 

 Hyphantria cunea larva (yellow, brown, and black, very 



hairy), 2. 

 Malacosofna americana larva (black, white, and blue, 

 hairy), 1. 

 23 




346 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Orgyia leucostigma larva (red, black, white> and yellow, 

 hairy tufted), 1. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Rosacea. 



Fragaria sp. (fruit). 



Accepted and Refused: 

 coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Calosoma scrutator (metallic blue, red, and green). The 

 butcherbird seemed to be staggered by the effluvium 

 of one of the first Calosomas given, but devoured it. 

 Later one was offered it rear end first through the wall 

 of the cage; the bird ate part of the viscera, then 

 refused to touch it again. However, he ate two the 

 next day. In all seven were devoured. 



SlLPRTD,E. 



Silpha incequalis (black), A 1 R 1. 



SCARAB.EID.E. 



Trox sp., A 1 R 1. Both the Silpha and the Trox were 

 refused in presence of experimenter, but their remains 

 were found in a pellet thrown up by the bird about two 

 hours later. 

 Hymenoptera. 

 Apina. 



Apis mellifera, worker (brown), A 1 R 1; drone, A 1. 

 Mammalia. 

 Murid^e. 



Mus norvegicus, A 2 R 2. 



It is difficult to believe that a bird acting on principle would 

 refuse Epicauta vittata and eat Meloe americana. Diabrotica is eaten 

 by wild individuals of the species, and Silpha, which was both accepted 

 and rejected by this bird, is a common capture. Calosomas also 

 are frequently eaten by wild butcherbirds. 



Mockingbird (Mimus polyglottos) . — 



Twice chose the grasshopper (Encoptolophus sordidus) in prefer- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



ence to the May-beetle (Lachnosterna) , although the latter is eaten 

 by wild mockingbirds. 



Catbird (Dumetella carolinensis) : 89 — 



Accepted: 



Ch^etopoda. 



Earthworm. 

 Isopoda. 



Oniscus asellus, 6. 

 Chilopoda. 



Julus sp. 

 Orthoptera. 



Green Acridiid. 

 coleoptera. 

 Carabid.e. 



Undetermined, 11. 



Agonoderus pallipes (pale yellow and black), 1. 



Anomoglossus pusillus (bluish-green, blue, or black). 



Bembidium chalceum (coppery to greenish or black). 

 Staphylinid^e. 



Undet. (with red elytra), 1. 



CoCCINELLHhE. 



Undet., 1. 



ClJCVJIBM. 



Cucujus clavipes (larvae), 6. 

 Dermestid^e. 



Dermestes talpinus (black with variously colored hairs), 4. 



ScARAB.EID,E. 



Lachnosterna sp. 

 Onthophagus hecate (black). 



ChRYSOMELIDjE. 



Diabrotica 12-punctata (yellow and black). 

 Tenebrionid^e. 



Tenebrio molitor (reddish-brown or black), 2. 



CURCULIONID.E. 



Centrinus scutellum-album (gray). 

 Lepidoptera. 



Euvanessa antiopa, ad. (reddish-brown, light blue, and 



yellow) . 

 Phlegethontius 5-maculatus, ad. (gray, dark brown, and 



yellow). 

 Hyphantria cunea, larva (yellow, brown, and black, very 



hairy), 5. 

 Diptera. 



Calliphora erythrocephalus, larvae, 56; ad. (metallic blue, 



eyes dull red), 1. 

 Musca domestica (black and gray), 2. 



89 Partial account in Yearbook U. S. Dept. Agr., 1895 (1896), p. 410. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Hymenoptera. 

 formicoidea, 7. 



Lasius alienus, 22. 



Cremastogaster linearis, pupa, 3. 



Formica sp., 7. 



Camponotus pennsylvanicus, 8. 

 Araneida. 



Lycosa sp. 



PULMONATA. 



Umax sp., 3. 

 Spermatophyta. 



MoRACEiE. 



Morus sp., many. 

 Rejected: 



COLEOPTERA. 



BlJPRESTID^E. 



Undet., 3 (could not break the insects). 

 Hymenoptera. 

 Wasp. 



Disregarded: 



COLEOPTERA. 



Passalus cornutus (black). 

 Lepidoptera. 



Euvanessa antiopa, larva (black, spiny). 



Accepted and Rejected: 

 coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Chlcenius sp., A 3 R 5. 

 Tenebrionid^e. 



Nyctobates pennsylvanicus (black), A 3 R 3. 

 Hymenoptera. 

 Apina. 



A pis mellifera, workers (brown), A 5 R 2. 



PULMONATA. 



Snail (large), R 1; (small), A 2. 

 Spermatophyta. 

 Rosacea. 



Strawberry (Fragaria sp.), A several, R several. 



AMYGDALACE.E. 



Cherry (Cerasus sp.), A 2 R several. 



Accepted and Disregarded: 

 coleoptera. 

 Lampyrid^e. 



Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus (yellow and black), D 1 

 Al. " 



Of the insects accepted, the larvae of Cucujus clavipes, at least, 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



which live under the bark of rotting trees, are probably never en- 

 countered by wild catbirds, but all offered the captive birds were 

 eaten. Among the forms accepted and rejected, the nauseous 

 metallic-green ground-beetle (Chlcenius) and the honey-bee (Apis 

 mellifera) are eaten by wild catbirds, and both strawberries and 

 cherries are favorite foods, as cultivators to their sorrow well know. 

 A wasp was rejected by the captive birds, but many wasps have been 

 found in stomachs of wild catbirds. The soldier-beetle (Chauliogna- 

 thus pennsylvanicus) , both disregarded and accepted in the experi- 

 ment, is eaten under natural conditions. 



Summary: Dumetella carolinensis. — 



Brown Thrasher (Toxostoma rufum) : 90 — 



Accepted: - • 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Harpalus caliginosus (black). 



LaMPYRIDjE. 



Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus (yellow and black). 

 Chrysomelil\e. 



Leptinotarsa decemlineata (yellow and black), twice swal- 

 lowed and thrown up, then swallowed again and re- 

 tained. 



Diabrotica 12-punctata (yellow and black). 



90 An account of these experiments, with some additional remarks about the 

 bud's preferences for certain human foods and wild berries, is in Yearbook U. S. 

 Dept. Agr., 1895 (1896), p. 414. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



MeLOID^E. 



Epicauta sp. 

 Heteroptera. 



COREID^E. 



Anasa tristis (brown). 

 Lepidoptera. 



PlERID^E. 



Pieris rapce, larvae (green, yellow, and black), 3. 

 Arctiid.e. 



Caterpillar, swallowed, but thrown up. 



Rejected: * 



Lepidoptera. 



Hyphantria cunea, larvae (yellow, brown, and black, very 

 hairy) . 



Both of the insects this captive thrasher seemed to have difficulty 

 in keeping down are eaten in the wild state. All of the other insects 

 accepted belong to "specially protected" species. 



Bluebird (Sialia sialis) : — 

 Accepted: 



ISOPODA. 



Oniscus asellus, 2. 

 Orthoptera. 

 Gryllid^e. 



Gryllus sp., 2. 

 Coleoptera. 

 Carabid.e. 



Anisodactylus discoideus (black and brownish-yellow). 

 Hydrophilid^e. 



Hydrophilus triangularis (shining greenish-black), ate 

 parts of one broken by bluejay. 



Refused: 



Hymenoptera. 

 Apid^. 



A pis mellifera worker (brown). 

 Spermatophyta. 



AqUIFOLIACEjE. 



Ilex opaca, berries (red). 



Disregarded: 



Coleoptera. 



coccinellid^e. 



Adalia bipunctata (red, yellow, and black). 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



351 



Chrysomelid^e. 



Galerucella luteola (yellow and black), 15 disregarded 

 three times. 

 Hymenoptera. 

 Myrmicid^e. 



Tetramorium ccespitum. 



Accepted and Disregarded: 



coleoptera. 

 Scarab.eidye. 



Lachnosterna sp., A D. 

 Araneida. 



Spider, A 3 D. 



Disregarded and Refused: 



coleoptera. 

 Carabid^e. 



Scarites subterraneus (black), D R 3. 



Summary: Sialia sialis. — 



This bluebird accepted one insect — Hydrophilus triangularis — 

 which very probably is never taken by wild bluebirds. The ground 

 beetle — Scarites — disregarded and thrice refused by the captive 

 bluebird has been found in collected stomachs of the species. The 

 same is true of the only berry offered it, that of Ilex opaca, which the 

 caged bird rejected. The honey bee, which was refused, and spiders 

 and May-beetles, which were disregarded as well as accepted, are also 

 eaten by wild bluebirds. 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



General Summary: All species of birds . 91 — 



[June, 



Totals. 



"Warningly colored" species 

 Others "specially defended". 

 "Non-protected" species 



Ac- 

 cepted. 



169 + 

 111 

 213 + 



Re- 

 jected. 



43 + 

 24 



52 + 



Dis- 

 regarded. 



27 

 6 + 

 9 



Percent- Percent- 

 age age dis- 

 rejected. regarded. 



17.99 

 17.02 

 18.97 



11.29 

 4.25 

 3.28 



It appears from this final summary that Judd's captive birds 

 rejected practically the same proportion of the " non-protected" 

 species offered them as of the "specially protected" group. The 

 result, therefore, is quite different from that reached in some other 

 series of experiments. Although it harmonizes with what we believe 

 is the average influence of preclaceous animals, as a whole, upon their 

 prey, i.e., an indiscriminate one, it is no more worthy of respect 

 than other experimental results, for the behavior of the animals 

 experimented with did not correspond with the natural habits of 

 their species. This is amply shown by the cases (a few not noted) 

 in which the birds would not eat articles of food that have been 

 found in" the stomachs of wild individuals of the same species. 

 This is more than 38 per cent, of all the items (not specimens) 

 offered that were either disregarded or rejected; if so large a pro- 

 portion of the experimental results are manifestly untrustworthy, 

 the only safe course is to place reliance in none of them. 



11 Includes Buieo platypterus, Archilochus colubris, Passer domesticus, Junco 

 hyemalis, Zonotrichia albicollis, and Toxostoma rufum, for which no summaries 

 were presented in previous pages. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Bibliography of Other Experiments in America. 



An annotated bibliography will sufficiently illustrate the character 

 of other American experiments upon the food of birds. Few of 

 them have any special reference to the efficiency of protective 

 adaptations. The bibliography does not include citations to papers 

 on aviculture nor on the winter feeding of birds. These are very 

 numerous and their only merit from our present standpoint is that 

 they afford much proof, if proof of the obvious were needed, that 

 birds, both free and confined, will readily accept foods with which 

 their species has never had experience under natural conditions. 



Bolles, Frank. Young Sapsuckers in Captivity. Auk, IX, No. 2,. 



April, 1892, pp. 109-119. 

 Proof that they can live a long time on a diet of syrup with very 



few insects. 

 Carpenter, F. H. Screech Owls Breeding in Confinement. Ornith.. 



and Oologist, 8, No. 12, December, 1883, pp. 93, 94. 

 "I fed them exclusively on frogs They seemed to prefer 



them to any other food, which led me to believe that they 



constituted no mean portion of their regular fare when at 



liberty." 

 This inference is not supported by the results of stomach examina- 

 tions. Dr. Fisher found frogs in only two out of a total of 255 



stomachs examined (Bui. 3, U. S. Biological Survey, 1893, pp. 



169-173). 

 Collins, C. W. Some Results from Feeding Eggs of Porthetria 



dispar to Birds. Journ. Economic Ent., 3, No. 4, August, 1910, ■ 



pp. 343-346. 

 Some English sparrows and a pigeon were tested. In all cases 



it was necessary to force the birds to eat the eggs. Eggs in 



dough fed to English sparrow were mostly rejected. 

 Collins, J. W., et al. [Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.] Rep. 



Comm. Inland Fisheries and Game, Mass., 1900 (1901), p. 43. 

 Some young ruffed grouse which had been fed on maggots, lettuce,. 



and young clover were given grain, and as a result died. Were 



they also given gravel? 

 F. G. The Pine Grosbeak in Confinement. Ornith. and Oologist, 



9, No. 4, April, 1884, p. 41. 

 Fond of corn meal and milk, apple seeds, beechnuts, and buds 



and seeds of pine and spruce. 

 Forbush, E. H. [Food consumed by two young crows.] Useful 



Birds and Their Protection. Mass. Bd. Agr., Boston [1907], 



pp. 45-48. 

 Chiefly concerns the quantity of food. Toads, frogs, and sala- 

 manders, often stated to be "distasteful," were eaten. 

 Forbush, E. H., and Fernald, C. H. The Gypsy Moth, Porthetria. 



dispar (Linn.). Mass. State Bd. Agr., 1896. 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



( )n pp. 231 and 239 it is stated that gypsy moth eggs were fed to a 

 confined English sparrow and a crow. The former ate them 

 voluntarily, but "did not appear to relish them"; the latter 

 would not take them except when they were concealed within 

 other food. 

 It will be noted that in Collins' experiment (see above) the English 

 sparrow took the eggs only when they were forced upon it. 

 Herkick, F. H. The Home Life of Wild Birds. New York, 1901. 

 Young kingfishers rejected raw meat, but throve on fish in cap- 

 tivity (p. 92). 

 Hodge, C. F. Our ( iommon Birds. Nature Study Leaflet, Biol. 

 Ser. No. 2, Worcester, Mass., 1899. 

 A young cedarbird took flies, poke berries, cabbage worms, "edema" 

 larvae, ants, fall web worms (a little sparingly), bush cranberries, 

 and peppermint drops (p. 15). Mockingbirds accepted meal- 

 worms and spiders (p. 19). 

 Hodge, C. F. [Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.] Rep. Comm. 

 Fisheries and Game, Mass., 1903 (1904), pp. 182, 183. 

 "I tested them with a great variety of prepared foods — grated 

 egg, bread crumbs, scraped raw meat, grated boiled meat, grits, 

 boiled rice, millet and other small seeds, grass, clover, chickweed, 

 partridge, and wintergreen berries, etc. They would either 

 pay no attention to any of these things, or, if they did pick at 

 them at all, would not do so but once." Foods accepted were 

 sweet curds, earthworms, mosquito larvse, plant lice, mealy 

 bugs, thrips, mealworms and maggots. 

 Hodge, C. F. A Summer with the Bluebirds. Bird Lore, 6, No. 2, 

 March-April, 1904. 

 "In my series of feeding tests I brought in a number of potato 

 beetles and thoughtlessly dropped a large larva into an open 

 mouth, before observing whether they would take them of their 

 own accord. I noticed that they picked them up once apiece, 

 wiped their bills in disgust, and declined to touch them again. 

 Next morning one of the birds was dead under the perch" (p. 45). 

 Hodge, C. F. [Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.] Rep. Comm. 

 Fisheries and Game, Mass., 1904 (1905), pp. 132, 133. 

 Gives a long list of foods accepted; pears and peaches were scarcely 

 more than tasted; thorn-apples, barberries, and black alder 

 berries were not refused, but were taken in large quantities: 

 they took quantities of all sorts of leaves except grape, snowball, 

 artichoke, and Rosa rugosa. 

 Thorn-apples and black alder berries are commonly eaten by wild 

 ruffed grouse. See Biological Survey, Bid. 24, 1905, pp. 36-38. 

 Hodge, C. F. [Food of Ruffed Grouse in Confinement.] Rep. 

 Comm. Fisheries and Game, Mass., 1905 (1906), pp. 65-68. 

 Gives names of numerous food items accepted. Berries of black 

 alder were taken sparingly; oats and barley were eaten spar- 

 ingly; peas and beans were refused. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Hodge, C. F. [Food of Young Ruffed Grouse.] Rep. Comm. 

 Fisheries and Game, Mass., 1907 (1908), p. 70. 



Two died from swallowing objects too large to pass into gizzard 

 (black cricket and large spider). This certainly was not the 

 cause of death. A young ruffed grouse's digestive apparatus 

 would quickly dispose of two such soft-bodied insects. 

 Hodge, C. F. [Report .... relative to the Propagation of Ruffed 

 Grouse and Quail in Confinement.] Rep. Comm. Fisheries and 

 Game, Mass., 1908 (1909), pp. 60-69. 



On pp. 60 and 61, Hodge says: "I encountered a new difficulty 

 against which we must be on our guard in the future. Striped 

 plant bugs were abundant on the grass, and were easily obtained 

 by sweeping with insect nets. The young chicks [of ruffed 

 grouse] ate them greedily, and simply went to sleep and died as 

 if they had been chloroformed. These bugs had the strong 

 odor of squash bugs, by feeding which to toads Conradi found 

 that thev died as though they had been poisoned with chloro- 

 form." 



"Conradi found that five or six squash bugs might be sufficient 

 to kill a toad, and Miss Morse has fed as many as eleven to a 

 bob white at a single meal. Plant bugs are not so strong as 

 squash bugs, and I have observed a toad eat over 250 of them in 

 a day without showing ill effects. Still, while this evidence is 

 not conclusive, .... I think that we should be more careful in 

 future not to feed too many strong-smelling bugs to young 

 grouse chicks." 



Dr. Hodge's experience with the young grouse, and the bluebird, 

 above noted, being killed by eating certain insects, is unsupported 

 by other testimony, and the observations leading to his con- 

 clusions are not scientifically exact. 



The reference to Conradi's experiments is incorrect. The toads 

 when confined in small bottles were killed by the vaporized 

 secretions of squash bugs; they were not killed by eating the 

 bugs. The feeding of bobwhites is described on pp. 64-67. He 

 justly remarks: "The most careful artificial feeding of a flock in 

 confinement cannot approach in variety the food of wild birds" 

 (p. 64). Reports of the Massachusetts Commissioners on 

 Fisheries and Game for other years contain notes on the feeding 

 of game birds in captivity, but not in relation to "protected" 

 insects. 

 Hyslop, J. A. The False Wireworms of the Pacific Northwest. 

 Bid. 95, U. S. Bur. Ent., Part V, 1912. 



In the discussion of natural enemies (p. 84) are reports on experi- 

 mental feedings of adult Eleodes chiefly to various gallinaceous 

 birds. Chickens, ducks, the Reeves pheasant, and silver pheas- 

 ant ate the beetles, while turkeys refused them, and golden and 

 Lady Amherst pheasants would not notice them. The author 

 says, "However, these birds seemed quite annoyed by our 

 presence and might have eaten the beetles had they not been 

 frightened." 




356 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Jenkins W. E. [Blue Jay in Confinement.] Ornith. and Oologist, 

 9, No. 3. March, 1884, p. 36. 

 Principal foods are meat, beechnuts, and corn. 



The Birds of Ontario in relation to Agriculture. 

 Out. Dep. Agr., Toronto, 1901. 

 On p. 44 are the results, as to quantity of cutworms and earth- 

 worms, experimentally fed to a young robin. 

 Owen, D. E. Notes on a Captive Hermit Thrush. Auk, XIV, 

 No. 1, January, 1897, pp. 1-8. 

 Notes on quantity of earthworms and beef eaten. Worms from 

 manure hill refused, those from garden eaten. 

 Peckham, E. G. [Fowls Eating Argiope riparia]. Occas. Papers, 

 Xat. Hist. Soc. Wis., I, 1889, p. 72. 

 This deep black and brilliant yellow spider seems to lack "one 

 means of defence common among conspicuous creatures, i.e., 

 the possession of a nauseous flavor." "Some chickens, to 

 which she was offered, ate her with relish." 

 Reiff, W. Some Experiments on the resistance of Gypsy Moth 

 Eggs to the Digestive Fluids of Birds. Psyche, 17, No. 4, 

 August, 1910, pp. 161-164. 

 Eggs concealed in other food were fed to a German canary, a 

 chaffinch, a yellow hammer, a Japanese robin, a screech owl, 

 and a carrier pigeon. The eggs given to the first three birds 

 were put in pieces of bread. In each case part of them were 

 picked out and rejected. 

 For a more complete review of the various experiments in feeding 

 gypsy moth eggs to birds, see Auk, 28, No. 2, April, 1911, pp. 

 285, 286. 

 Scott, W. L. Baltimore Oriole. Ornith. and Oologist, 8, No. 11, 

 November, 1883, p. 86. 

 "He is particularly fond of hard-boiled egg, bread, and finely 

 chopped meat." 

 Stickney, J. H., and Hoffmann, R. Bird World, Boston, 1898. 

 An unconfined yellow-throated vireo took cankerworms and 

 many black ants (pp. 106-112). 

 Treadwell, D. [The Food of Young Robins.] Proc. Boston Soc. 

 Nat. Hist., VI, 1859, pp. 396-399. 

 Discusses amount of earthworms and beef eaten per day. 

 Weed, C. M.,- and Dearborn, N. [Food of a Captive Crow.] 

 Birds in Their Relations to Man, 1903, pp. 61, 62. 

 On quantity of fish consumed. 

 Wueelock, I. G. Nestlings of Forest and Marsh, Chicago, 1902. 

 Young bluebirds were fed yolk of hard-boiled eggs, cracker crumbs, 

 and earthworms (p. 34). 



Summary. 



^m the writer's point of view, three main conclusions regarding 

 ?rimental tests of the efficiency of protective adaptations 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



against natural enemies are unavoidable: (1) The experiments 

 are very inconsistent : (2) They have been misinterpreted, and (3) 

 They are not trustworthy guides to behavior under natural con- 

 ditions. 



The Experiments are very Inconsistent. — Inconsistency in the details 

 of various series of experiments have been set forth in previous 

 pages (see pp. 298, 300, 313, 316 and 319). Inconsistency 

 in the results of entire series is plainly shown by the strongly 

 contradictory conclusions different experimenters have drawn. 

 Thus Weir, Poulton, Marshall, Pocock, and Finn, for instance, thought 

 their experiments supported the selectionist theories concerning 

 protective adaptations, while Butler, Manders, Punnett, Plateau, 

 Reighard, and Pritchett, among others, drew just the opposite 

 conclusion. Beddard's opinion was that distastefulness was not 

 more definitely associated with conspicuous colors, than with plain 

 ones. The characteristic inconsistency of experimental results are 

 described by him in the following language: 92 "None of these 

 experiments are thoroughly satisfactory; it is so difficult to interpret 

 them, and they are often contradictory, for a bird will eat one day 

 what it has refused before. The experiments that have been 

 made are like most other statistics — they may be made to prove 

 anything." 



The Experiments have been Misinterpreted. — This charge weighs 

 not so much against the experiments themselves as against their 

 makers, but it throws doubt upon the desirability of such tests, 

 since the personal equation is so large a factor in the interpretation 

 of results. 



Definite instances of misinterpretation have been cited in 

 previous pages (295, 303, 305-316, 325 and 328-330). A 

 chronic case is well illustrated by the following quotations from 

 Prof. E. B. Poulton (Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1902) : 



" A mantis is probably less affected in this respect [food preferences] 

 by confinement than a vertebrate animal; but the same general 

 criticism will probably hold in both cases — that while the rejection 

 of an insect by a not over-fed insectivorous animal in captivity is 

 evidence of unpalatability or dislike, its acceptance is not sufficient 

 evidence of appreciation or that it constitutes an element of the 

 normal diet. An insect may be eaten readily in captivity which 

 would be rejected or only eaten under the stress of hunger in the 

 wild state" (p. 317). 



32 Animal Coloration, 1892, p. 166. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



"It has already been pointed out that the acceptance of insects 

 by insectivorous animals in captivity is no proof of their normal 

 likes or dislikes in a wild state. Such acceptance only proves what 

 their action would be when they had been, from some exceptional 

 cause, kept without their normal food in its usual quantity and 

 variety. Hence the fact that Acrseas were devoured [by a ground 

 hornbill] is no evidence that they are normally eaten except in a 

 lime of unusual hunger. On the other hand, the rejection of two 

 L. chrysippus, after three Acrseas had been readily eaten, indicate 

 that the former butterfly is decidedly distasteful to this species of 



bird" (p. 348) 



" Byblia ilithyia was .... distinguished [by baboons] from an 

 Acrcea, but this by no means proves that the resemblance is not 



beneficial under natural conditions (p. 388) Considering 



what has been already argued about insect-eating animals in con- 

 finement, the acceptances (excluding the Hesperiidse) probably do 

 not justify the conclusion that the Lepidoptera were palatable, or 

 that they would be sought for in the wild state except under the 

 stress of hunger" (p. 389). 



"It has already been pointed out that the refusal or evident 

 dislike of insect food by captive animals is trustworthy evidence of 

 unpalatability, while acceptance is not proof of palatability " (p. 436). 

 It is self-evident that this oft-repeated dictum is merely special 

 pleading for the admission of as much as possible of the evidence 

 favorable to the theories, and the exclusion of as great a proportion 

 as possible of the evidence that might be unfavorable. So plain is 

 this fact that even Mr. G. A. K. Marshall, collaborator with Prof. 

 Poulton in the paper quoted from, severely criticized the Professor's 

 attitude. He says 93 in part: 



' There is too emphatic an insistence upon the possibility of error 

 where an insect is accepted; for it practically casts suspicion upon 

 every such case. On the other hand, the possibility of error in the 

 other direction is not indicated." 



The Experiments are not Trustworthy Guides to Behavior under Natural 



Conditions. — The writer is by no means the first to question the 



analogy of behavior under experimental to that under natural 



conditions. The idea is put briefly by L. W. Kline in an article on 



'Methods in Animal Psychology": 94 "Nothing so shrinks and in- 



■■ Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 1908, p. 140. 

 Amer. Joum. of Psychol, 10, 1898-9, p. 276. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



hibits completely the fulness and variety of an organism's activities 

 than prison life and fear." 



In groups as low even as the Amphibia behavior in confinement 

 is far from natural. Prof. C. 0. Whitman found that Necturus 

 ordinarily refused food in captivity on account of its extreme timid- 

 ity. He says: 95 "The first adults which I kept in captivity in a 

 large aquarium refused to eat pieces of raw beef or small fish, whether 

 dead or alive. For months they went on, seeming entirely indifferent 

 to any proffered food, not paying the least attention, so far as I 

 noticed, to tempting morsels dropped quietly in front of them or 

 held in suspension before them. Living earthworms and insect 

 larvae were presented to them, all of which were known to be palatable 

 to the creature in its natural habitat; but nothing availed to draw 

 attention or elicit any evidence of hunger. Quiet and wholly indif- 

 ferent in outward behavior, yet the animals were actually starving 

 or wasting away." 



Many snakes will not take food in captivity, and it is therefore 

 necessary to force food down their throats to prevent death from 

 starvation. Captivity greatly modifies the behavior of some other 

 reptiles also, as is well stated in the following quotation from H. H. 

 Newman: "In order to understand an animal one must live with 

 it, must spend long hours, quiet days, in thoughtful observation of 

 it, as it pursues its daily round of occupations. This I have had an 

 opportunity of doing, and I now feel that I have a really personal 

 acquaintance with at least five species of tortoises 



"Studies of this sort should, I believe, precede experimental 

 studies, for sometimes shyness or weariness might be mistaken for 

 stupidity, and sullenness for sluggishness in reaction. As a rule, 

 the more highly organized and alert species of tortoises display, 

 when in captivity, the greatest degree of sullenness, and hence their 

 actions in confinement very poorly represent their true character. 

 The species, on the other hand, that are less highly organized are 



the species that act more nearly normally when in captivity 



Captivity inhibits normal activity in nearly all tortoises; conse- 

 quently I abandoned at an early stage of my work the observation 

 of specimens in confinement and devoted myself to long-continued, 

 and at times tedious, observation of the various species as they live 

 in their active environment 



"Extreme sullenness characterizes the behavior of Aspidonectes 



95 Biol. Lectures, 1898 (1899), pp. 295, 296. 




360 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



while in confinement. If kept in a room they hide behind furniture 

 and remain motionless for hours and almost days. When put in 

 aquatic enclosures they immediately bury themselves in the mud 

 and seem to remain there for months. Nothing will induce them to 

 eat or to take any interest in their surroundings. If caught while 

 making their nest, they are sometimes forced to lay the eggs, but 

 never make a nest in confinement. The eggs are simply dropped 

 about on land or in the water, and are usually crushed when found. 

 None of their normal characteristics are in evidence, and it would be 

 a waste of time to attempt to draw conclusions about their disposi- 

 tion or intelligence from their actions in captivity." 96 



Prof. Charles W. Hargitt makes a similar but more general criticism 

 of the experimental method of studying animal behavior, as follows : 

 "I have made the field work emphatic whenever at all practicable. 

 I have elsewhere 97 emphasized the crying need for larger attention 

 to this phase of experimental work, believing that in many cases 

 it is all but impossible to secure trustworthy results as to behavior 

 of animals where the work has been done under such unusual, un- 

 natural, and artificial conditions as most laboratory provisions afford. 



"What right has one to assume that the actions of an animal taken 

 rudely from its natural habitat and as rudely imprisoned in some 

 improvised cage are in any scientific sense -an expression of its normal 

 behavior, either physical or psychical? Is it within the range of the 

 calculus of probability that conclusions drawn from observations 

 made upon an animal in the shallow confines of a finger-bowl, but 

 whose habitat has been the open sea, are wholly trustworthy? It is 

 no part of my purpose to discredit the laboratory or laboratory 

 appliances as related to such investigations. They are indispensable. 

 But at the same time let it be recognized that they are at best but 

 artificial makeshifts whose values, unless checked up by constant 

 appeal to nature, must be taken at something of a discount. This 

 must be especially the case with higher organisms. Some of these 

 may, of course", be readily domesticated, or made more or less at 

 home in aquaria or vivaria; but not a few absolutely fret their 

 lives out, are never at ease, and probably never give expression to a 

 natural reaction under such conditions. It seems to the writer 

 until one has been able to place his specimens under conditions 



labits of Certain Tortoises," Journ. of Compar. Neurology and 

 Psychol, XVI, 2, March, 1906, pp. 126, 127, and 135. 



Observations on the Behavior of Tubicolous Annelids," Journ. Exp.Zool., 

 Vol. 7, 1909, p. 157. 




1912.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



approximating the natural, or has at least brought them to a state 

 of semi-domestication, where in food taking, evidence of health, etc., 

 they are at ease, he has small right to dogmatize as to conclusions, 

 or presume to make such conclusions the basis of so-called laws of 

 animal behavior. Not a little of recent investigations along the 

 lines of animal behavior has been vitiated at just this point, and 

 must be repeated to be made trustworthy. The amazing mass of 

 contradictory results which has loaded the literature of recent 

 years is attributable to some extent to this misfortune." 98 



With regard to experimentation with captive birds, Prof. S. A. 

 Forbes, the founder of economic ornithology, says: 99 "This evi- 

 dently shows only what the bird will eat when restrained of its 

 liberty, of such food as may be placed before it, and furnishes few 

 data which we can use with safety in making up an account of its 

 food in freedom, when foraging for itself. The state of confinement 

 is so abnormal for a bird that on this account, also, we can rarely 

 reason from its habits in that state to its ordinary habits. This 

 method is, therefore, available only for the solution of a few separate 

 questions." 



The assertions of these authors regarding the modifying effects 

 of captivity upon behavior apply more pertinently to no set of 

 experiments than those which have been conceived to be tests of 

 the food preferences of insectivorous animals in relation to pro- 

 tective adaptations. 



The writer has asserted that the experiments are not trustworthy 

 guides to behavior under natural conditions, and he expects to prove 

 this by citing evidence along two lines, viz.: (1) Animals accept in 

 captivity articles of food which they not only do not eat in the wild 

 state, but with which their species probably has never had experience, 

 and (2) animals reject in captivity articles of food which are not only 

 occasionally eaten by wild members of the species, but which may be 

 very important elements of the subsistence as a whole. 



(1) Acceptances. — This point really needs no proof. Universal 

 experience with the feeding of all kinds of captive animals confirm it. 

 The coarse brown bread (containing oats, shorts and molasses) given 

 to the bears, in some zoological parks, the chopped-up beets, carrots, 

 potatoes, etc., of which the parrots, cranes, and certain rodents are 

 fond, sufficiently illustrate foods relished in confinement by animals 



98 Journ. of Animal Behavior, Vol. 2, Xo. 1, January-February, 1912, pp. 51, 52. 

 » Bui. III. State Lab. Nat. Hist., Vol. I, No. 3, 1880, pp. 86, 87. 

 24 




362 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



to which they are unknown in the wild state. The experiments of 

 Pocock and Butler, resulting in the acceptance of many British 

 insects by a variety of foreign mammals and birds, illustrate the same 

 point. As noted before, the acceptance of butterflies by some of 

 Finn's birds signifies no more, concerning their natural food habits, 

 than does their acceptance of boiled rice. It means no more than 

 the eating of silver fish, clothes moths, and mealworms by Mrs. 

 Nice's bobwhites. 



The point need be no further elaborated. We are forced to 

 conclude that acceptance of various items of food by captive animals 

 is no indication whatever that they are eaten by the same species 

 in the wild state. 



(2) Rejections. — This point really follows from analogy the con- 

 elusion just cited. There is no logic in regarding rejections as 

 indicative of natural tastes, when acceptances are plainly shown not 

 to be. But evidence to prove the case is much harder to obtain, 

 and it is for this reason that we have been compelled to endure the 

 style of argument that asserts " refusal .... is trustworthy evidence 

 of unpalatability, while acceptance is not proof of palatability." 



Fortunately, however, we have information regarding the choice 

 of food by a number of animals, both in captivity and under natural 

 conditions. We have shown that in certain of the experiments with 

 amphibia, the animals refused articles of food which they habitually 

 eat in the natural state. For instance, this is true of the refusal 

 by the common toad of the Eastern United States of millipeds 

 (Julus), squash-bugs (Anasa tristis), and potato beetles (Leptino- 

 tarsa decemlineata) . Prof. Whitman found that ordinary articles 

 of the natural diet were refused by captive Necturus. Snakes, in 

 particular, often refuse all food in confinement. Is this "trustworthy 

 evidence of unpalatability?" The writer had the care for a year of 

 six prairie rattlesnakes (Sistrurus catenatus). Live mice and birds 

 put in their cage were killed, but not eaten. No food was taken 

 naturally and they were kept alive only by putting meat well down 

 their gullets with long-jawed forceps. 



Beddard found that a green woodpecker made great objection to 

 eating a single earwig, yet Newstead found twenty-three of these 

 insects in the stomach of a wild bird of this species. Finn found 

 that captive red-whiskered bulbuls refused Acrcea, but an observer 

 in India saw the birds feeding the "most distasteful" insect of the 

 genus to their young. So little is known regarding the natural food 

 of birds in most countries that few such comparisons can be made. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Fortunately, this is not the case in the United States, where we have 

 data enough to prove the point. 



A selection of the more conspicuous cases of refusal of favorite 

 natural foods by the birds tested by Judd are given in the following 

 tabulation. Other instances are cited in the summaries of the 

 separate experiments (pp. 340, 346, 349, 350 and 351). 



Eaten by wild individuals of the 

 Rejected by captive birds. same species. 



A ruby-throated hummingbird All of these items are corn- 

 rejected small leaf -hoppers, flies, monly eaten by wild birds of 

 flea-beetles, and spiders. this species. 



A bluejay refused a hen's egg, In a state of nature jays f re- 

 living birds and mice, and mul- quently break up outlying nests 

 berries. Acorns also were refused, of fowls. Birds and mice are 



preyed upon and mulberries are 

 eaten. Acorns have been found 

 in dozens of stomachs of wild 

 birds and are a very important 

 element of the normal diet. 



English sparrows rejected Whole flocks of English spar- 

 fruiting heads of dandelion. rows pass days in rifling the ripe 



involucres of this plant. 



A snowbird, a white-throated These seeds are a common 

 sparrow, and a song sparrow re- natural food of all three birds, 

 fused seeds of lamb's quarters. 



The song sparrow rejected, also, All are eaten by wild song 



seeds of smartweed and beetles sparrows, the smartweed seeds 



of the genera Diabrotica, Hippo- in abundance. 

 damia, and Lachnosterna. 



These facts show that the feeding reactions of various animals 

 are strikingly modified by confinement. Some animals refuse items 

 of food which are a favorite with wild individuals of the species, 

 some of which may form a notable percentage of the total subsist- 

 ence. Others refuse all food. The birds experimented upon by 

 Judd together disregarded or rejected 108 articles of food. Forty- 

 two of these items have been found in stomachs of wild birds of the 

 same species that ignored or refused them in captivity. Investiga- 

 tions carried on while this paper was in preparation raised this 

 number to 42 from 35, and it must be borne in mind that subsequent 

 stomach examinations will increase, never diminish the total. The 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



experimental indications as to what food items are unattractive or 

 distasteful to the birds, thus, are proved to be misleading in 42 cases 

 out of 108. This makes a percentage of error of 38 (which will 

 grow larger), enough to entirely invalidate the data. Furthermore, 

 it is not probable that the data from any other series of experiments 

 are any more reliable. The conclusion cannot be avoided, therefore, 

 that the rejection of various items of food by captive animals does 

 not prove that these items are rejected by the same species under 

 natural conditions. 



Conclusion. 



It has been demonstrated that behavior of captive animals toward 

 food is not a reliable indication of what wild individuals of the same 

 species would do in the presence of the same food. In other words, 

 since the feeding habits of an animal in captivity may vary widely 

 from its known habits in the natural state, there is no avoiding the 

 conclusion that the results obtained under experimental conditions, 

 do not indicate the part the animal might play in natural selection. 



We must conclude, therefore, since acceptances and rejections 

 in experiments bear no close relation to food preferences under natural 

 conditions, that the value of experiments to determine the efficiency 

 of warning colors, and other protective adaptations of prey, is very 

 questionable. Having no certain value in themselves, they must 

 be checked up with definite knowledge of the natural food habits. 

 This information is obtained by collecting animals with freshly 

 captured prey and by examination of pellets, castings, and the 

 contents of stomachs or other portions of the alimentary canal. 

 There is no possibility of going back of such evidence on the choice 

 of food, nor is there any need of so doing. 



Since this evidence is sufficient in itself, and since experimental 

 data must be supported by it to be worthy of any consideration, why 

 perform the experiments? The same time expended in collecting 

 trustworthy data regarding the natural food habits of animals would 

 bring much greater returns, and the result would be truth, not 

 imaginative inferences from abnormal behavior. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



A NEW SYNALLAXIS. 

 BY WITMER STONE. 



In a collection of birds made by Air. Samuel N. Rhoads in Ecuador 

 in 1911, and recently acquired by the Academy, there are several 

 specimens of a Synallaxis which appears to be undescribed, although 

 individuals of apparently the same form have been taken by previous 

 explorers and referred to S. gularis. From typical S. gularis Lafr. 

 from Bogota the Ecuador birds differ very decidedly; the upper 

 surface is much darker and less tawny, while the lower parts are 

 uniform pale tawny olive with no rusty tints on the side nor gray 

 on the breast; the white gular patch and superciliaries are not so 

 pure and the white of the lores and frontlet much obscured with 

 brown and gray. 



Birds from the Cauca Valley, Colombia, recently described by 

 Mr. F. M. Chapman as Synallaxis gularis rufipectus, are much 

 closer to the Ecuadorian form, having the lower parts uniform, with 

 no trace of gray on the breast, but the colors above and below are 

 much brighter and richer, especially the under parts, while the bill 

 seems to average stronger and heavier. 



The Ecuador bird may be known as 



Synallaxis gularis pichinchse subsp. nov. 



Type, No. 59,432, Collection Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 c?, May 1, 1911. Hacienda Garzon, southern foot of Mt. Pichincha, 

 Ecuador, 10,800 ft. elevation. Collected by Samuel N. Rhoads. 



Upper parts uniform raw umber 1 with a slight russet tinge, tail 

 chestnut; lower parts uniform pale tawny olive inclining to isabella 

 color, slightly darker on the sides of the body, gular patch rather 

 dull white, narrow superciliaries white, lores gray, with a dull white 

 stripe above, forming the anterior extension of the superciliary. 

 Wing 58 mm. Culmen 12 mm. 



A female obtained at the same locality, May 17, and another 

 male, May 5, correspond exactly with the type. 



My thanks are due to Mr. F. M. Chapman, curator of ornithology 

 in the American Museum of Natural History, for the loan of speci- 

 mens of the new forms of this group recently described by him, as 

 well as for typical specimens of S. gularis, one of which had been 

 compared with the type. These specimens were invaluable in 

 determining the relationships of the Ecuador bird. 



Colors named according to Ridgway's Nomenclature of Colors, Boston, 1886. 




366 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



SILICIFIED WOOD FROM THE TRIASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA. 

 BY EDGAR T. WHERRY, PH.D. 1 



The occurrence of silicified wood in the Triassic or "Newark" 

 rocks of the eastern United States was first observed in the Richmond 

 Basin. Virginia, by Thomas Nuttall in 182 1, 2 and it was shortly 

 afterward discovered in North Carolina 3 and in Connecticut, 4 but 

 its presence in Pennsylvania does not appear to be mentioned in the 

 literature. 5 



The inhabitants of southern Bucks and northern Chester and 

 Lancaster Counties have long recognized the character of specimens 

 of it plowed up in their fields, but its scientific interest was first 

 realized by Mr. John F. Vanartsdalen.of Holland, Bucks County,about 

 1890, who brought it to the attention of the writer several years 

 later. The western Lancaster County occurrences were discovered 

 independently by Professor H. Justin Roddy, of the Millersville 

 State Normal School. Subsequent search has greatly increased 

 the number of localities, so that it is now known to occur at short 

 intervals along the strike of the Triassic rocks, near their base — the 

 southern edge of the belt, since the clip is for the most part gently 

 northward — from the Delaware River to beyond the Susquehanna, 

 a distance of over 100 miles. These relations are well brought out 

 in the accompanying sketch map and geographical table. 



Table I. Localities of Silicified Wood. 



B. Bucks County. 



1. Roelofs: Farm of George W. DeCoursey, \ mile southeast of 



the station. 



2. Woodbourne: On several farms 1| miles north of the station. 



1 This paper, the fourth of the writer's studies on the Triassic, was presented 

 in preliminary form at the meeting of the Academy in association with the 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section on May 18, 1909, but publication was 

 deferred until opportunity for completing the work could be obtained, the final 

 results being announced at the similar meeting on May 21, 1912. 



2 Observations on the Geological Structure of the Valley of the Mississippi, 

 [etc.], Jour. An,,]. Nat. Sci. Phila., II, i, p. 37. 



Olmsted, D. Descriptive Catalogue of Rocks and Minerals Collected in 

 North Carolina, Amer. Jour. Sci., [1], V, p. 261, 1822. 



4 Hitchcock, E. Miscellaneous Notices of Mineral Localities, with Geological 

 Remarks, Amer. Jour. Sci. [1], XIV, p. 228, 1828. 



5 Compare, however, Prof. O. C. S. Carter: A Ferruginised Tree, Jour. 

 Franklin Inst., CXI.!, pp. 227-229, 189G, which perhaps refers to similar material. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



367 



3. Newtown: Bed of Neshaminy Creek, \\ miles west of the town. 



4. St. Leonard's: Roadside northeast of station. 



5. Rocksville (Holland P. O.): Fields along north bank of Mill 



Creek. 



6. Holland: Fields south and southeast of the station. 



7. Churchville: Fields east of station. 



8. Center Hill: Fields along ridge just northwest of village and 



for 2 miles south west ward. 



9. Spring Valley: Fields 1 mile to the southwest. 

 10. Doylestown: Fields 1| miles south of the town. 



M. Montgomery County. 



1. Morganville: Trenton Cut-Off R. R. cut | mile east of station. 



2. Jarrettown: Sand quarry \ mile northwest of cross-roads. 



3. Maple Glen: Sand quarry south of house of William Teas, 



\ mile east of cross-roads; this is the "ferruginized tree" 

 locality. 

 C. Chester County. 



1. Sheeder: Roadside f mile northeast of cross-roads. 



2. Coventry ville : Fields on farm of Isaac D. Rosen, \ mile east 



of the village. 

 L. Lancaster County. 



1. Churchtown: Fields 2 miles northwest of town. 



2. Elizabethtown: Penna. R. R. cut \ mile southeast of station; 



also in fields east and southwest of town. 



3. Bainbridge: On several farms about 3 miles to the northeast; 



and on that of Omar Baughman, one mile north of the town. 



Y. York County. 



1. York Haven: In fields about 2 miles to the south and southeast. 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



The wood occurs in fragments of all sizes, up to complete trunks 

 a foot or more in diameter and several feet long. It is usually dark 

 brown in color, and almost entirely replaced by granular to minutely 

 crystalline quartz, 6 with occasional carbonaceous streaks. Its 

 original vegetable character is almost always evident to the naked 

 eye, although annual rings are never visible; and thin sections, 

 which are readily prepared by grinding with carborundum, after 

 the manner of making ordinary rock-sections, show under the micro- 

 scope every structural detail beautifully outlined in brown. While 

 usually found loose in the fields or along the roads, it has been ob- 

 served in place in several localities, and is always associated with 

 the highly arkosic sandstones or conglomerates which mark the 

 lower portions (Norristown or Stockton formation) of the Triassic. 

 It is not limited to any narrow horizon, however, but occurs at 

 various levels throughout a thickness of at least 5,000 feet of beds, 

 locality M. 1, for instance, being at the very base, and B. 3 at the 

 top, of that formation. 



The material found outside of Pennsylvania has all been referred 

 to three species, Araucarioxylon virginianum, A. woodworthi, and 

 ( '( droxylon huttonianum ?, the first being the most widely distributed. 

 As a result of the examination of some sixty specimens, about half 

 of which were sectioned by Mr. Vanartsdalen, two new species have 

 been recognized, which are here described as Araucarioxylon vanarts- 

 daleni and Brachyoxylon -pennsylvanianum. The present paper is 

 not to be regarded as the last word upon the subject, however, as it 

 is possible that the discovery of additional material may throw 

 further light on the status and relationships of these species. 



Genus ARAUCARIOXYLON Kraus. 



Araucarioxylon virginianum Knowlton. Plate III, figs. 1-3. 



Fossil Wood and Lignite of the Potomac [and Newark] Formation, Bull. 

 U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 56, pp. 50-52, pi. VII, 1889. A Revision of the 

 Genus Araucarioxylon of Kraus, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XII, p. 615, 

 1889, and Amer. Jour. Sci., [3], XL, p. 257, 1890. Report on some Fossil 

 Wood from the Richmond Basin, Virginia, Ann. Rept. U. S. Geol. 

 Surv., XIX, pt. ii, pp. 516, 517, pi. LII, 1899. Description of a Small 

 Collection of Fossil Wood from the Triassic Area of North Carolina, 

 Ann. Kept. V. S. Geol. Surv. XX, pt, ii, pp. 272-274, pi. XXXVII, 1900. 

 Report on Fossil Wood from the Newark Formation of South Britain, 

 Conn. Ann. Rept, U. S. Geol. Surv., XXI, pt, hi, pp. 161, 162, 1901. 



Transverse Section: Annual ring indistinct; tracheids thick 



c Chemical analysis of a Lancaster County specimen (from L. 3) by Prof. 

 Miles Timlin, of the M illersville State Normal School, showed: Si0 2 , 96.5%; 

 1 '<■,<),, 1.2' , , the remainder being carbonaceous matter. Cf. PI. IV, fig. 6. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



walled, moderately large (about 0.04 mm. in diameter) in radial 

 rows. 



Radial Section: Tracheids long, thick walled; bordered pits 

 in one or frequently two series; wdien in one, in contact and flattened; 

 in two, closely packed, alternate, strongly hexagonal, and nearly 

 covering the walls of the cells (diam. 0.016 to 0.021 mm.); medul- 

 lary rays long, without pits; resin ducts none. 



Tangential Section: Rays simple, of 1 to 27, usually 10-12 

 cells about 0.025 mm. in diameter; no pits on walls, but cross- 

 sections of radial wall pits prominent. 



Occurrence: This species, hitherto found near the base of the 

 Triassic in North Carolina, Virginia, and Connecticut, is now re- 

 ported for the first time from Pennsylvania, being occasionally found 

 at localities B. 2 and B. 5. 



Relationship: Araucarioxylon (Dadoxylon) rhodeanum Goppert, 

 from the Permian of Silesia, appears from descriptions to be very 

 similar to this species, but distinctive features would no doubt be 

 found if well-preserved specimens could be compared. 



Araucarioxylon vanartsdaleni ap. nov. Plate III, figs. 3-6. 



Transverse Section : Annual ring indistinct ; tracheids averag- 

 ing 0.03 mm. in diameter, thick walled. 



Radial Section: Tracheids long, thick walled, with bordered 

 pits (diam. 0.015-0.020 mm.) usually in single rows, barely touching, 

 and but little compressed; about one cell in every fifty with double 

 rows, which are alternate and hexagonal; medullary rays long 

 (at least, no partitions preserved), without pits; resin ducts absent. 



Tangential Section: Ray cells rather small (diam. 0.02 mm.), 

 up to 10 in one row, though usually 5 or 6; pits absent. 



Occurrence: This appears to be the most widespread form in 

 the Triassic of Pennsylvania, occurring at practically every locality 

 on the list. 



Relationship: When first examined all of the wood with con- 

 tiguous pits was referred to A . virginianum, but the study of a large 

 number of specimens indicates that there are probably two distinct 

 species represented, and the one characterized here differs from 

 A. virginianum as well as from A. woodworthi Knowlton, which 

 occurs near the top of the Triassic in Virginia, in the fewer-celled 

 medullary rays and the predominance of the uniserial arrangement 

 of the pits. It is therefore regarded as new, and named after its 

 discoverer. Its nearest relative in other regions is A. wurtemburg- 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



iacum Goppert, which is a Jurassic form, but there is no reason to 

 suppose them to be really identical. 



Genua BRACHYOXYLON Hollick and Jeffrey. 

 Brachyoxylon pennsylvanianum sp. nov. Plate IV, figs. 1-5. 



Cedroxylon .' pennsylvanianum, the writer's communication to the Academy, 

 May 18, L909. Peuce huttoniana Witham ? Rogers, W. B.: [Exhibition 

 of Specimens, with Remarks.] Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., V, pp. 17, 18, 

 1854. 



Transverse Section: Annual ring distinct; tracheids about 

 0.035 mm. in diameter, medium walled. 



Radial Section: Tracheids long, medium walled; bordered 

 pits, 0.010 to 0.012 mm. in diameter, in one or rarely two series, 

 circular, not quite touching, when double in part distant and sub- 

 opposite, yet in other places in the same sections alternating and 

 hexagonal; medullary rays long, without pits; resin ducts absent. 



Tangential Section: Rays simple, containing from 2 to 30 

 cells, usually 7-9, about 0.02 mm. wide; no bordered pits visible. 



Occurrence and Relationships: While the majority of the 

 specimens of silicified wood show the araucarian type of structure, 

 a few fragments, found at four or five localities, differ in having 

 distinctly separated and more or less opposite bordered pits. Ac- 

 cording to Kraus's classification, this material should therefore be 

 referred to the genus Cedroxylon, as was done in the writer's pre- 

 liminary report. But the variation in the character of the pits in 

 different parts of the same section suggests its probable identity 

 with the new genus Brachyoxylon Hollick and Jeffrey, 7 in which both 

 alternating double and non-contiguous single rows of pits are present. 

 The occurrence of this type of structure in so early a geological 

 period as the lower Triassic is interesting, although in the absence 

 of any information as to the leaves or other external characters of 

 the plant, discussion of its relationships or significance would be 

 futile. 



In searching for evidence as to the age of the "Middle Secondary" 

 rocks in Virginia, Rogers had made a microscopical examination of 

 silicified wood from both "western and eastern belts" and thought 

 ii< structure " to agree very nearly with the fossils figured by Witham 

 under the name of Pence Huttonia."* He unfortunately never 



7 .Studies of Cretaceous Coniferous Remains from Kreischerville, N. Y., Mem. 

 N. )'. Hot. Gard., Ill, pp. T.4-57, pi. XIII, 1909. 



8 Witham, II. T. M. The Internal Structure of Fossil Vegetables, p. 70, pi. 



13; reclassified as Cedroxylon huttonianum by Kraus: Schimper's 

 i< PaUontologie Vegetale, II, p. 371, 1870. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



published the exact localities from which it had been obtained, but 

 it may have been identical with the species here characterized, 

 although in the writer's opinion this is more like C. lindleyanum 

 (Witham) Kraus. Both of these species had been described from 

 the Lias of England, and Rogers accordingly inferred the Jurassic 

 age of the American rocks, but there can be no question that our 

 form is really entirely distinct from either, and it is named after the 

 State in which it was discovered. 



The distribution of these species is shown in the following table; 

 material from localities M. 2 and M. 3 could not be obtained for 

 study. 



Locality B. 123456789 10 

 A. virginianum X X 



A. vanartsdaleni X X X X X X X X X X 



B. pennsylvanianum X X X 



Locality M. 1 2 3 C.l 2 L.l 2 3 Y.l 



A. virginianum 



A. vanartsdaleni X — X X X X X 



B. 'pennsylvanianum X X 



In conclusion, a word may be added concerning the bearing of the 

 fossil wood on the question as to the climate of the Triassic. A 

 prevailing red color in the sediment of any period has now come to be 

 recognized by geologists as an indication that the climate of the 

 time was to some extent arid. The obscurity of the annual ring in 

 these trees may be regarded as pointing to a certain extent 9 in the 

 same direction, for it shows that there could not have been any 

 marked seasonal variation in temperature conditions, and the sim- 

 plest way in which this could occur would be under the prevalence 

 of a dry climate, caused perhaps by some peculiarity of configuration 

 of continents or elevation of mountains, which produced a different 

 circulation of the atmosphere from that prevailing here at present. 



The arkosic matrix of the wood specimens (from the feldspar of 

 which their silica has been derived) is also suggestive of the same 

 state of affairs, for it must have been formed under conditions where 

 disintegration exceeded decomposition, so that the feldspar and 

 other silicates could be broken up without extensive chemical altera- 

 tion, and although this could result equally well in frigid as in arid 

 climates, there is no direct evidence for the former, so that the 



9 Although the value of this evidence is limited by the fact that living arau- 

 carias show little annual ring, even though growing in temperate climates. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



latter remains as the most probable climatic condition of the Triassic 

 period in Eastern North America. 



Explanation of Plates III, IV. 



Plate III. — Fig. 1. — Araucarioxylon virginianum Knowlton. Locality B. 5. 

 Transverse section, X 20. No definite annual ring. 



Fig. 2. — .Same. Radial section, X 40. Shows several double rows of pits. 



Fig. 3. — Same. Tangential section, X 40. Shows cross-section of medul- 

 lary rays and of radial wall pits. 



Fig. 4. — Araucarioxylon vanartsdaleni sp. nov. Locality B. 5. Transverse 

 section, X 20. No annual ring. 



Fig. 5. — Same. Radial section, X 40. Shows one of the very rare double 

 rows of pits. 



Fig. 6. — Same. Tangential section, X 40. Shows few-celled rays. 



Plate IV. — Fig. 1. — Brachyoxylon -pennsrjlvanianum sp. nov. Locality C. 1. 

 Transverse section, X 20. Shows distinct annual ring of four layers of 

 small cells just above middle. 



Fig. 2. — Same. Radial section, X 40. Shows single rows of pits, dis- 

 tinctly separated. 



Fig. 3. — Same. Tangential section, X 40. Shows medullary rays. 



Fig. 4. — Same. Another radial section, X 40. Shows several double rows 

 of pits, which are only partially alternate. 



Fig. 5. — Same as figure 4, but X 100. 



Fig. 6. — The section shown in Plate III, fig. 3, under crossed nicols (X 40), 

 showing the complete replacement by crystalline quartz. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



AGE AND CORRELATION OF THE "NEW RED" OR NEWARK GROUP IN 



PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY EDGAR T. WHERRY, PH.D. 1 



The so-called "New Red" or Newark group of rocks of the Eastern 

 United States has heretofore been almost universally regarded as a 

 geologic and paleontologic unit, and correlated with the Rhsetic 

 or uppermost Triassic of Europe. Mr. Benj. Smith Lyman, Director 

 of the Mineralogical and Geological Section, who was the first to 

 make a detailed study of any portion of these beds, found them in 

 eastern Pennsylvania to be unexpectedly thick (27,000 feet) and 

 capable of considerable subdivision, and accordingly put forward 

 the suggestion that the group is not all of the same age, but that its 

 deposition began in some portion of the late Paleozoic and con- 

 tinued throughout the Triassic and perhaps even into the Jurassic. 2 

 This view was considered briefly by Ward 3 and cast aside, but the 

 question has never been really settled, and is here reopened and 

 discussed in detail. 



The Paleozoic age of the lowermost beds was inferred by Mr. 

 Lyman from the supposed occurrence of: 



Lepidodendron of Lower Carboniferous type at Newark, N. J. 



Calamites of Permian age at Holicong, Bucks County, Pa. 



Dendrophycus of Devonian aspect at Portland, Conn. 



To which may be added, silicified wood related to Permian species 

 of Europe as described by Knowlton 4 and by the writer. 5 



The identification of the Lepidodendron was made by Lesquereux 

 on a photograph of a poorly preserved fragment, and must therefore 

 at best be regarded as doubtful, even had no other examination of 

 the material ever been made. But Newberry 6 and Fontaine, 7 

 studying the same or a similar specimen, agreed that it represents 

 a conifer, probably Abies or Palissya, while Berry thinks that "all 

 that can be safely said is that it is the decorticated trunk of a gym- 



1 The subject-matter of this paper has been presented in the form of occasional 

 notes at meetings of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of the Academy. 



2 Age of the Newark Brownstone, Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, XXXIII, pp. 5-10; 

 and Some New Red Horizons, ib., pp. 192-215, 1894. 



3 Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S., Ann. Rept. U. S. Geol. Surv., 

 XX, pt. ii, pp. 218-221, 1900. 



4 Fossil Wood and Lignite of the Potomac [and Newark] Formation, Bull. 

 U. S. Geol. Surv., No. 56, p. 52, 1889. 



5 Preceding paper. 



6 Fossil Fishes and Fossil Plants of the Triassic Rocks of New Jersey and the 

 Connecticut Valley, Mon. U. S. Geol. Surv., XIV, pp. 94, 95, 1888. 



7 In Ward's Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S., Ann. Rept. U. S. Geol. 

 Surv., XX, pt. ii, p. 219, 1900. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



aosperm." 8 As a matter of fact, the building-stone beds, from which 

 it was obtained, are stratigraphically many thousand feet above the 

 base of the Triassic. 



The Calamites from Bucks County, discovered many years ago 

 by Mr. John S. Ash, had been identified by Lesquereux as Calamites 

 <m nanus, a Triassic species, 9 and later by Dr. N. L. Britton 10 as 

 Schizoneura laticostata (or planicostata) , a form occurring in the 

 Upper Triassic of Virginia. As there still seemed to be a possibility, 

 however, that the fossil was of Permian age, the writer in 1908 

 carried on excavations at the locality, and sent the material then 

 obtained together with specimens of this plant and a cycad pre- 

 viously collected by Mr. Ash and by the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section of the Academy to the United States National Museum for 

 identification. It was there examined by Messrs. David White and 

 F. H. Knowlton, the foremost authorities on Carboniferous and 

 Triassic plants, respectively, and they reported as follows: 



"The equisetalean stem fragments probably belong to Schizoneura, 

 with which they accord fairly well. The gymnospermous fragment 

 seems to belong to Cycadites, and has many characters in common 

 with C. tenuinervis of the southern Newark. The material affords 

 no evidence of Paleozoic age, the equisetalean specimens being 

 generally unlike the Paleozoic Calamites and Equisetites, while the 

 genus Cycadites is unknown in the cosmopolitan Permian flora. 11 

 Though of relatively little value, the data embraced in {.his collection 

 points toward Triassic age." 



The " dendrophycus " is of no diagnostic value because it is of 

 inorganic origin, representing a rill-mark, 12 and of course water flowed 

 over mud about the same in the Triassic as in the Carboniferous 

 period. So there remains to be considered only the silicified wood. 

 Of the three species found in Pennsylvania one has its nearest relative 

 in the Permian of Europe, although the other two are more like 

 Jurassic forms, as pointed out in the preceding paper. The apparent 

 similarities would no doubt largely disappear, however, if well- 

 preserved material were available for direct comparison, for pub- 



8 A Brief Sketch of Fossil Plants, Ann. Rept. Stale Geol. N. J., 1905, p. 124, 

 note 2, No. 5. 



'Lewis, II. C. A Great Trap Dyke Across Southeastern Pennsylvania. 

 Proc. Amer. Philos. Sac, XXII, p. 453, 1883. 



10 [Exhibition of Specimens.] Trans. N. Y. Acad. /...., V, p. 17, 1885. 



1 Although Goppert described two species from t) a Carboniferous limestone 

 of Silesia: Beitrage zur Kenntniss Fossiler Cycadeen, Neues Jahrb. Min. 

 Paleont., 1866, pp. 131, 132, pi. II. [E. T. W.] 



Lull, R. S.: The Life of the Connecticut Trias, Amer. Jour. Sci., [41, 

 XXXIII, p. 403, 1912. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375 



lished descriptions and figures necessarily leave much to be desired 

 as far as really complete characterization is concerned. Furthermore, 

 it is generally recognized that because of the relative stability of 

 internal structures as compared with external characters, identifica- 

 tion for purposes of correlation must be based on the latter; indeed, 

 plants may pass from one formation or even period to another with 

 the former apparently unchanged, and of all types of structure that 

 of the araucarias is the most persistent, extending from the Devonian 

 down to the present time. 



It appears, therefore, that there is actually not the slightest 

 foundation for the idea that the deposition of the Newark group 

 began during the Permian or any other portion of the Paleozoic. 

 But it is not by any means certain that more than one limited sub- 

 division of the European Triassic may not be represented within its 

 bounds. 



For purposes of comparison, a table of the subdivisions which have 

 been recognized both here and in Europe is added. 



Table I. Subdivisions of the Triassic. 



13 Lyman, op. cit., p. 197.' and Report on the New Red of Bucks and Mont- 

 gomery Counties, Summo Final Report, Penna. 2d Geol. Surv., Ill, pt. ii, 

 pp. 2589-2638, 1895. Thic nesses somewhat modified in accordance with later 

 work. 



14 Kummel, H. B. The Newark System — Report of Progress, Ann. Rept. 

 State Geol. N. J., 1896, pp. 34-55; thicknesses, p. 59. 



15 Von Huene, F. Eine Zusammenstellung iiber die Englische Trias, etc., 

 Cerdr. Min. Ueol. Raleont., 1908, p. 16; thicknesses from various sources. 




376 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



A few words should be added concerning the nomenclature of the 

 America]) formations. The upper portion of the Newark was 

 divided by Mr. Lyman, as shown in the table, into three members: 

 the Lansdale, a soft red shale, followed by the Perkasie, described as 

 harder and darker in color, and the Pottstown, again soft and red. 

 The writer has not been able to recognize the validity of this sub- 

 division, as the Perkasie at its type locality, as well as at several 

 other places, contains various secondary minerals, such as quartz, 

 epidote, and stilbite and other zeolites, which are seen in microscopic 

 sections to fill the spaces between the grains, and are also often 

 crystallized out in crevices, showing it to be merely a metamorphosed 

 phase of the otherwise soft red sediments. It is therefore most 

 convenient to treat these three formations as a unit, for which the 

 name Brunswick, first applied to the New Jersey area, may well be 

 adopted. For the two lower formations the Pennsylvania names 

 have priority, but since the New Jersey ones have been rather widely 

 used it seems necessary to give both to insure against any mis- 

 understanding. 



While the earlier observers were inclined to consider the fossils 

 of the American Newark as equivalent to forms from the Rhsetic 

 of Europe — the transition stage between the Triassic and Jurassic 

 periods — the plants were shown by Stur 16 to match most closely 

 those of the German Lettenkohle or lower Keuper, and more recently 

 Dr. C. R. Eastman 17 has found the fish fauna to have its analogue 

 in that of the upper Muschelkalk and the lower Keuper of the 

 Alpine Province. In all of these discussions it has been taken for 

 granted that the Newark is a geologic and paleontologic unit; and 

 it must be admitted that little definite evidence to the contrary has 

 as yet been obtained; but it seems incredible that the enormous 

 thicknesses of beds developed here could all be represented by two or 

 three hundred feet of the foreign Triassic. Mr. Lyman's plea for the 

 more definite placing of fossil occurrences in the stratigraphic column 

 is therefore worthy of more attention than it has received, for it is 

 only by so doing that we can ever hope to learn the true relations 

 and equivalences of the beds. 



A geographical table of the more important fossil localities of 

 Pennsylvania, exclusive of those of silicified wood, which were given 



6 Die Lunzer-Lettenkohlen Flora in den "Older Mesozoic Beds of the Coal 

 Field of Eastern Virginia," Verh. KK. Geol. Reichsanst., 1888, pp. 203-217. 



7 Triassic Fishes of Connecticut, Bull. Conn. Geol. Nat. Hist. Surv., No. 18, 

 .pp. 23-25, 1911. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



in the preceding paper, is here introduced. The locality numbers 

 correspond to those on the accompanying map. 



B. Bucks County. 



1. Wycombe: Quarries | mile south and 1 mile southwest of 



station. Upper part of the Gwynedd-Lockatong formation. 

 Estheria ovata Lea. 

 Other Crustacea and fish scales. 



2. Holicong: Mr. John S. Ash's farm, | mile northwest of the cross- 



roads. For references see above. At least 3000 feet below 

 the top of the Norristown-Stockton formation. 



Schizoneura sp. 



Cycadites sp. (cf. tenuinervis Fontaine). 



3. Carversville : Road metal quarry f mile to the east. A. P. 



Brown: New Cycads and Conifers from the Trias of Penn- 

 sylvania. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1911, pp. 17-21, pi. 

 I-V. Transition beds between the Norristown-Stockton and 

 the Gwynedd-Lockatong formations. 



Podozamites formosus Brown. 



Zamites velderi Brown. 



Palissya diffusa (Emmons) Fontaine. 

 " obtusa Brown. 



Cheirolepis munsteri Schenk. 

 " latus Brown. 



M. Montgomery County. 



1. Gwynedd Tunnel, P. & R. Ry., north of Gwynedd Valley station. 



Cope: Synopsis of the Extinct Batrachia, Reptilia, and Aves 

 of North America. Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, XIV, pp. 170-175, 

 1871. Also other references by Leidy and Lea in Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, etc. Middle of the Gwynedd-Lockatong 

 formation, of which it is the type locality. 



Numerous bones of a pterosaur, Rhabdopelix lorigispinis Cope. 



Various fish scales and reptile teeth. 



2. Areola: Perkiomen R. R. cuts | mile and f mile southeast of 



station. Bottom of Gwynedd-Lockatong. 

 Estheria ovata Lea. 

 Fish scales. 



3. Yerkes: Perkiomen R. R. cut near station. Leidy: Fish 



Remains of the Mesozoic Red Shales. Proc. Acad. NatSSci. 

 Phila., 1876, p. 81. Base of Brunswick. 

 A few fish scales, Radiolepis elegans Emmons?. 



4. Graters Ford: Fishers quarry, 1 mile northwest of station. 



Lower part of Brunswick. Fossil footprints, of several species. 



C. Chester County. 



1. Pheenixville : P. & R. Ry. tunnel § mile north of station. Has 

 been the subject of numerous papers, the most elaborate of 

 25 




::7^ 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



which is that of Wheatley: Remarks on the Mesozoic Red 

 Sandstone of the Atlantic Slope, and Notice of the Discovery 

 of a Bone Bed Therein. Amer. Jour. Sci., [2], XXXII, pp. 

 41-48, 1861. Middle of Gwynedd-Lockatong formation. 



Plants, species of Equisetum, Pterozamites, and Ctenophyllum. 



Estheria ovata and other Crustacea. 



Fish scales. 



Reptile teeth and bones. 



L. Lehigh County. 



1. Hosensack: Road cut somewhere southwest of the village. 

 Lea: Description of a Fossil Saurian of the New Red Sand- 

 stone Formation of Pennsylvania; with some Account of 

 that Formation. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., [2], II, pp. 

 185-202, PI. XVII-XVIV, 1854. Middle of the Brunswick. 

 Reptilian bones: Clepysaurus pennsylvanicus Lea. 



Y. York County. 



1. York Haven and vicinity. Wanner and Fontaine, in Ward's 



Status of the Mesozoic Floras of the U. S., loc. cit., pp. 233-255, 

 1900. Middle of the Gwynedd-Lockatong. 

 Numerous fossil plants. 



2. Emigsville: Copper prospects 2 miles northwest. Frazer and 



Cope: [Fossils from York County], Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 

 XXIII, pp. 403, 404, 1886. 

 Reptile bones and teeth. 



Nearly all of these localities, as pointed out by Mr. Lyman, are 



Gwynedd-Lockatong formation. As this consists of a series 



carbonaceous and calcareous rocks, no doubt representing a time 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



of swamp development, attributable to a temporary modification of 

 climatic conditions, which would of course affect the whole region 

 at the same time, the fossils from the various places could hardly 

 be expected to be otherwise than equivalent. It is these that are 

 used in correlation of the "Newark" with the European Keuper. 

 The only fossil locality at any considerably lower horizon is that at 

 Holicong, Bucks County (B. 2). The forms occurring there are 

 unfortunately not specifically identifiable, and so can throw little 

 light on the age of the beds. But since both Cycadites and Sehizo- 

 neura are genera which are found in the Bunter or lower Triassic of 

 Europe, it is by no means impossible that the Norristown-Stockton 

 formation is really the approximate equivalent of that horizon, 

 which it certainly closely resembles lithologically. 



Because of the total absence of fossils of diagnostic value in the 

 upper 10,000 feet of the Brunswick formation in Pennsylvania, its 

 exact position is also indeterminate. It further does not seem 

 advisable to attempt extrapolation into other districts, where the 

 succession of formations is in general quite different from that here 

 outlined. But the absence of beds of uppermost Triassic or even 

 of Jurassic age can in no way be regarded as certain. 



It is to be concluded, then, that there is no evidence whatever 

 of the deposition of any part of the New Red or Newark group 

 during the Permian period; but since all of the fossils of diagnostic 

 value, indicating middle-upper Triassic age, have come from a 

 rather limited horizon, about the middle of the group, we are not 

 justified in concluding either that the whole group is of the same age 

 or that the Bunter sandstone below and the upper Keuper or Rhsetic 

 above are not represented in the American rocks. 




;;,si) 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



A CATALOGUE OF JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 



by s. stillman berry. 

 Introduction. 



While engaged in a somewhat comprehensive study of the Ceph- 

 alopod fauna of the Hawaiian Islands, the writer found himself 

 impelled to consider the possibility of correlation with that of other 

 regions of the Pacific, notably Japan, whence so many bizarre and 

 interesting types have been described. In pursuance of this a 

 simple catalogue was first compiled, then a fairly detailed list of 

 references added, and finally, when the collections of Stanford 

 University proved to be surprisingly rich in material from this 

 region, a mass of other data was accumulated. The greater part of 

 all this is now offered' in the present paper. The aim is merely to 

 present a bibliographic catalogue of all the cephalopod mollusks 

 known to occur within the waters of the Japanese Empire, with the 

 addition of a few more or less pertinent notes regarding such species 

 as have chanced to come under the personal observation of the 

 writer. 



As already indicated, the bulk of this material was furnished by 

 the zoological collections of Stanford University, where it owes its 

 origin chiefly to the Jordan and Snyder Expedition to Japan in 

 1900. As the purpose of this expedition was mainly ichthyological, 

 no special effort was made to secure a large collection of cephalopods, 

 but the species which were incidentally obtained are fairly numerous 

 and frequently of considerable interest. 



In addition to the above, mention should be made of a small 

 series of cephalopods secured by Dr. David Starr Jordan at Fusan, 

 Korea, in 1911, and a few taken at Takao, Formosa, by Mr. Hans 

 Sauter, which are likewise in the Stanford University collections. 



Through the courtesy of Mr. Samuel Henshaw, I have also had 

 the privilege of examining a large series of Euprymna from Hong 

 Kong in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 



Lastly, but very fortunately, I have been enabled, through the 

 signal kindness of Prof. A. E. Verrill, to secure the loan of an inexten- 

 sive but unusually interesting series of small squids, including 

 cotypes of two important species, taken many years ago by Prof. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



E. S. Morse in the Bay of Tokio (Yecldo), and now preserved in the 

 Yale University Museum. 



Historical Survey. 

 With the possible exception of Tilesius. the honor of being the 

 first author who attempts to refer taxonomically to any Japanese 

 cephalopod belongs, so far as I have been able to ascertain, to Alcide 

 d'Orbigny, who, in the great Histoire produced during the years 

 1834-1839 in collaboration with Ferussac, attributed the following- 

 named forms to this region: 



Octopus Fa ng-sia o . Sepiola japon ica . 



Octopus areolatus. Sepioteuthis sinensis. 



Octopus sinensis. Sepia sinensis. 



Loligopsis chrysophtalmos. 



As the majority of these nominal species were based upon the 

 rude drawings or descriptions of other authors and hence, as a rule, 

 are quite unaccompanied by accurate definition, only the Octopus 

 areolatus appears capable of precise determination. All of the other 

 names, with the doubtful exception of Sepiola japonica, have dropped 

 from use. 



Following the activity of d'Orbigny, we find a long period covering 

 the decades from 1845 to 1885 when but little in regard to this 

 particular field found its way into print save a few exceedingly 

 scattered and fragmentary observations by such authors as Lischke 

 (1869), Try on (1879), Steenstrup (Sepia andreana 1875, Todarodes 

 pacificus 1880), Hilgendorf (Architeuthis martensii 1880), Owen 

 (1881), and Verrill (Inioteuthis japonica and morsei 1881). 



In the years 1885 and 1886, however, occurred the successive 

 publication bj^ Dr. William E. Hoyle of the important results at- 

 tained by his exhaustive study of the cephalopods taken during the 

 cruise of H. M. S. "Challenger." In a resume of the Cephalopoda 

 of the region under consideration (1886, p. 219) some 25 species 

 (one of them doubtful and another since eliminated) belonging to 

 8 genera are listed. The species added to the fauna include the 

 type of a new genus, 8 other new forms, and several others pre- 

 viously described from other regions, as follows: 



Octopus hongkongensis. Sepia myrsus ? 



Octopus januarii. Sepia esculenta. 



Promachoteuthis megaptera. Sepia kobiensis. 



Loligo edulis. S< pia andreauoides. 



Loligo kobiensis. Sepiella maindroni. 



Loligo japonica. Calliteuthis ocellata (as C. reversa). 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



In the meanwhile appeared an important paper by Appellof 

 (Japanska Cephalopoder, Stockholm, 1886), which is significant as 

 being the first time that we find the cephalopods of Japan dealt 

 with as an assembled unit by themselves. In this paper 8 species 



were added: 



Octopus vulgaris. Loligo bleekeri. 



Octopus globosits n. s. Loligo swnatrensis. 



Octopus macropus. Sepia peterseni n. s. 



S( pioteuthis lessoniana. Sepia ( = Metasepia) tullbergi n. s. 



Two years later the publication of a second treatise on the same 

 subject from the pen of Dr. A. E. Ortmann (Japanische Cephalo- 

 poden, Zool. Jahrb., 1888) marked another notable increase in our 

 knowledge. Thirty-six species referable to 10 genera are accredited 

 to our area, of which the following are first recorded: 



Tremoctopus doderleini n. s. Loligo tetradynamia n. s. 



( = Ocythoe tuberculatd) Loligo chinensis. 



Octopus kagoshimensis n. s. Loligo aspera n. s. 



Octopus pusillus. Sepia hoylei n. s. 



Microteuthis paradoxa n. s. Sepia torosa n. s. 



( = Idiosepius). Sepia tokioensis n. s. 



During the next twenty years succeeded another period of only 

 occasional short papers and desultory notes, the most important 

 of which are those of Pilsbry (Sepia hercules, 1894), Ijima and 

 Ikeda (Opisthoteuthis depressa 1895, Amphitretus pelagicus and 

 Alloposus pacificus 1902), Mitsukuri and Ikeda (1898), Joubin 

 (1897, 1898), Pfeffer (1900), Nishikawa (1906), Meyer (1906), and 

 Chun (1908, 1910). 



Very recently Wulker (1910) has published a third survey of the 

 Japanese members of the group, based upon a portion of the valuable 

 material brought to Germany by Dr. Doflein. In this work, notable 

 for its numerous interesting data and the able manner in which they 

 are presented, Japan is accredited with no less than 24 genera com- 

 prising an even 60 species (3 of them doubtful). The following are 

 additions to the fauna: 



Tremoctopus violaceus. Sepia elliptica. 



Polypus doflein i n. s. Sepia lorigera n. s. 



Polypus pictus fasciatus. Sepia misakiensis n. s. 



Sepia aculeata. Sepia appellofi n. s. 



Symphctoteuthis oualaniensis. 



the present catalogue the recognized number is increased to 

 eies I I considered doubtful), falling under 29 genera, with 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



one somewhat doubtful subspecies. But one new species (Sepia 

 formosana) is here proposed, although two others, Stoloteuthis nip- 

 ponensis and Abraliopsis scintillans (Berry 1911, 1911a), have pre- 

 viously been described from the same material and are now more 

 fully characterized and figured. 



Relationships and Distribution. 



After the excellent discussion of the relationships of the Japanese 

 cephalopod fauna by Wtilker (1910, pp. 23, 24), it would be idle to 

 reenter into the subject with much detail here. Suffice to say that 

 the close analogy there dwelt upon between many Japanese and 

 Mediterranean types is now still further heightened by the addition 

 of Thelidioteuthis alessandrinii to the list. Nevertheless, the pre- 

 dominant tone of the fauna is quite decidedly Indo-Malayan. 

 Indeed, outside of the genera Loligo and Sepia, astonishingly few 

 species are known to be exclusively Japanese, though these two 

 groups here attain such an abundant development and comprise 

 so many unique species that the gross aspect of any large collection 

 from the region is quite characteristic. The presence of the hong- 

 kongensis group of Polypi appears somewhat anomalous and may 

 indicate that these species are invaders from the Aleutian-Californian 

 fauna, where they or their near allies form one of the most striking- 

 elements, a conclusion which is, however, by no means to be regarded 

 as certain. 



These points are brought out somewhat more forcibly by state- 

 ment in tabular form. 



The distribution of the fauna, according to groups, is significantly 

 shown in the following table : » 



Genera. 



octopoda 7 



Myopsida 1 1 



(Egopsida^. 1 1 



Tetrabranchiata 1 



Total .30 68 1 ? 4 



The most striking feature is very obviously the great prepon- 

 derance of the Myopsida which comprise more species, or at least 

 as many, as all other groups combined. This again is almost en- 

 tirely due to the more abundant representation of Loligo and Sepia, 

 and is quite the reverse of the conditions prevailing in other areas 

 of the North Pacific. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Despite the enormous number of recognized species and the fact 

 t hat no other region of the Pacific has been so diligently investigated, 

 our understanding of the fauna is still so incomplete that this cata- 

 logue can scarcely be regarded as any less provisional in nature 

 than its predecessors. 



As yet we know almost nothing regarding the distribution of 

 this class of animals along the coasts of northwestern Japan and 

 in the Japan Sea, and but little collecting has been done anywhere 

 on the island of Hokkaido. As is to be expected, the neighboring 

 bays of Tokio, Sagami, and Suruga afford us with the bulk of our 

 information, and the vicinity of Misaki has proven a particularly 

 prolific locality. 



Note.— In the following pages the sign ! indicates that specimens 

 from the locality cited have been examined and verified by the 

 present author. Numbers enclosed in brackets have reference to 

 the private card register of the author and are given for purposes of 

 convenience and accuracy only. Mere listing of a species in the 

 various catalogues of Hoyle (1886, 1886a, 1897, 1909) and of Wttl- 

 ker (1910) has not generally been included in the lists of references. 



Class CEPHALOPODA. 



Order DIBRANOHIATA Owen, 1832. 



Sub-order OCTOPODA Leach, 1818. 



Family CIRROTEUTHID^J Keferstein, 1866. 



Genus OPISTHOTEUTHIS Verrill, 1SS3. 



Opisthoteuthis depressa Ijima and Ikeda, 1895. 



Opisthoteuthis depressa Ijima and Ikeda, 1895, pp. 1-15, pi. 33. 

 Opisthoteuthis depressa Meyer, 1906, pp. 758-760 (anatomy). 

 Opisthoteuthis depressa Meyer, 1906a, pp. 183-269 [1-93], pis. 11-16 



(anatomy) . 

 Opisthoteuthis depressa Doflein, 1906, p. 260, fig. 

 Opisthoteuthis depressa Marchand, 1907, p. 3S1, [77] (anatomy). 

 Opisthoteuthis depressa Dollo, 1912, pp. 131, etc., pi. 3, fig. 5. 



Distribution.— 250 fathoms, Okinose Bank, near Misaki, Sagami 

 (type locality). 



Family ARGONAUTID^] Cantraine, 1840.' 

 Sub-family ARGONAUTINiE s. s. 



Genus ARG0NAUTA Linne, 1758. 



The Japanese members of this genus have not yet been carefully 

 worked out, but all three of the names appearing in the literature 

 belong to widely distributed species. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Argonauta argo Linnc, 1758. 



Argonauta Argo Linne. 1758, p. 708, Nos. 282, 231. 



Argonauta Argo Lischke, 1859, vol. I, p. 29 (locality record). 



Argonauta Argo Dunker, 1882, p. 1 (mere note). 



Argonauta argo Ortmann, 1888, p. 641. 



Argonauta argo Jatta. 1S96, p. 191, pi. 8, fig. 3; pi. 18, figs. 15-29. 



Argonauta Argo Hirase, 1907, p. 3 (locality record). 



Because of the large number of other species common to both 

 regions, the identity of the Japanese race with typical A. argo from 

 the Mediterranean is here assumed, although the fact still remains 

 to be definitely established. 



Distribution. — Enoshima, Sagami (Ortmann); Tokio (Dunker); 

 Tango (Hirase); Loo-Choo Islands (Lischke). Atlantic, Mediter- 

 ranean, and Indian Oceans. 



Argonauta hians Solander, 1786. 



Argonauta hians Solander, 1786, p. 44, No. 1,055 (fide Dall). 

 Argonauta hians Dilhvyn, 1817, vol. 1, p. 334. 

 Argonauta gondola Dilhvyn, 1817, vol. 1, p. 335. 

 Argonauta gondola Lischke, 1839, vol. I, p. 29 (mere note). 

 Argonauta gondola Dunker, 18S2, p. 1 (mere note). 

 Argonauta hians Ortmann, 18S8, p. 641. 



Distribution. — Enoshima, Sagami (Ortmann) ; Sagami (Hirase) ; 

 Loo-Choo Islands (Lischke). Indo-Pacific, South Atlantic, etc. 



Argonauta hians navicula Solander, 1786. 



Argonauta navicula Solander, 1786, p. 44, No. 1,055 (fide Dall). 

 Argonauta Oweni Adams and Reeve, 1850, p. 4, pi. 3. figs. la-Id. 

 Argonauta Owenii Dunker, 1882, p. 1 (mere note). 

 Argonauta hians navicula Dall, 1908, pp. 226, 229. 



Distribution.— J apan (Dunker). South Atlantic, Indo-Pacific, etc. 



Sub-family OCYTHOIX.E. 



Genus 0CYTH0E Rafiuesque, 1814. 

 Ocythoe tuberculata Rafmesque, 1814. 



Ocythoe tuberculata Rafmesque, 1814, p. 29. 



Tremoctopus doderleini Ortmann, 1888, p. 642, pi. 20. 



Ocythoe tuberculata Jatta, 1896, p. 198, pi. 6. fig. 3; pi. 7, fig. S; pi. 19, figs. 



1-12; text figs. 14, 52. 

 Ocythoe tuberculata Wi'ilker, 1910, p. 1. 



The Tremoctopus doderleini of Ortmann, which is obviously not 

 a Tremoctopus in the accepted sense of the term, is said by Wiilker 

 to be identical with the common Mediterranean O. tuberculata. The 

 reported dispersal of the species is somewhat peculiar and indicates 

 that it will eventually prove to be nearly cosmopolitan. 



Distribution. — Bay of Tokio (Ortmann); near Misaki, Sagami 

 (Wiilker); near Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wi'ilker). Mediterranean 

 Sea; Vineyard Sound, Massachusetts (Verrill); West Indies (fide 

 Verrill). 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July. 



Sub-family TREMOCTOPODIN^E. 



Genus TREMOCTOPUS Delle Chiaje, 1S29. 



Tremoctopus violaceus Delle Chiaje, 1S29. 



Tremoctopus violaceus Delle Chiaje, 1829, pis. 70, 71 (fide Wulker). 

 Tremoctopus violaceus Jatta, 1896, p. 204, pi. 6, fig. 2; pi. 20, figs. 1-18. 

 Tremoctopus violaceus Wulker, 1910, p. 5. 



Distribution. — Coast of Boshu, Sagami Sea (Wulker). Mediter- 

 ranean Sea. 



Family POLYPODID^E Hoyle, 1904. 



Genus POLYPUS Schneider, 1784. 



That the genus Polypus attains an especially large development 

 on the coasts of Japan is attested by the formidable list of names 

 which have at one time or another been ascribed to this area, and 

 that despite the fact that, so far as members of this group are con- 

 cerned, the deeper waters off shore are still practically a terra incognita. 

 P. januarii being the only abyssal species thus far reported. How- 

 ever, the true number belonging to the fauna is somewhat obscured 

 by the lack of sufficient diagnosis or other needful information 

 respecting several of the alleged species. The following list is 

 thought to include all the names which occur in the literature: 



Polypus vulgaris Lamarck. P. hongkongensis Hoyle. 



P. granulatus Lamarck ( =rugo- P. dofleini Wulker. 



sus Bosc). P. pictus fasciatus Hoyle. 



P. macropus Risso ( =cuvieri P. areolatus De Haan. 



d'Orbigny). P. ocellatus Gray. 



P. kagoshiniensis Ortmann. P. broehi Ortmann. 



P. globosus Appellof. P. fang-siao d'Orbigny. 1 



P. pusillus Gould. P. sinensis d'Orbigny. 1 



P. januarii Steenstrup. P. nienibranaceus Quoy and Gai- 



mard. 



Polypus vulgaris (Lamarck, 1799). 



Octopus vulgaris Lamarck, 1799, p. IS (fide Jatta). 



Octopus octopodia Tryon, 1879, p. 113, pi. 23, figs. 3, 4 (after d'Orbigny); 



pi. 24, figs. 5, 6 (after d'Orbigny); pi. 24, fi>>;. 7 (after Jeffreys). 

 Octopus vulgaris Appellof, 1886, p. 7. 

 Octopus vulgaris Ortmann, 1888, p. 642. 

 Polypus vulgaris Wulker, 1910, p. 5. 



As I have had no European specimens of P. vulgaris available 

 for comparison, I cannot feel personally certain that the following- 

 specimens are correctly referred to this species, but I think little 

 doubt exists that they are conspecific with the form so identified 



1 Octopus Fang-siao and Octopus sinensis are names applied by d'Orbigny 

 to certain rude illustrations of Chinese or Japanese origin and published by him 

 without any real diagnosis. They arc nearly or quite unrecognizable and probably 

 can never have any standing. Appellof has suggested that O. Fang-siao belongs 

 to the synonymy of O. ocellatus. Tryon refers O. sinensis without hesitation 

 to O. membranaceus, Hoyte somewhat dubiously unites it with O. areolatus, 

 while Appellof places it with a query under O. vulgaris. 




1912.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



387 



by the various other writers on Japanese cephalopods. The fact 

 that the lateral arms are usually notably longer than the others, 

 the minute conical hectocotylus, reticulate surface, and reddish- 

 gray color seem to be very characteristic. The lateral arms in the 

 male show a conspicuous enlargement of one or (occasionally) more 

 of the suckers near the umbrella margin, as has been noted in numer- 

 ous other species. 



The dimensions of two cf specimens are given below : 



[Xo. 339] 



[Xo 



mm. 



Total length to tip of arms 610 2 



Length of mantle (dorsal) 101 



Width of mantle 85 



Width of neck 47 



Width of head 53 



Length of funnel 45 



Length of right dorsal arm, outside measurement . 395 2 

 Length of left dorsal arm, outside measurement 410 2 



Length of right second arm, outside measurement 470+ 2 



Length of left second arm, outside measurement 440 2 

 Length of right third arm, outside measurement . 380 2 

 Length of left third arm, outside measurement 420 2 



Length of right ventral arm, outside measurement. 380 2 

 Length of left ventral arm, outside measurement 380 2 



Length of hectocotylus 4 



Length of umbrella between dorsal arms no 



Length of umbrella between ventral arms 70 



Diameter of largest sucker 20 



. 337] 



mm. 



355 2 



71 



60 



39 



40 



33 



220 2 



200 2 



265 2 



245 2 



205 2 



250 2 



230 2 



225 2 



3 



. 50 



35 



13 



Material Exam ined. — 

 Xo. 



Sp. Locality. Sex. 



1 Misaki, Sagami cf 



1 Misaki, Sagami 



1 Bay of Waka, Kii 9 



3 Tsuruga, Echizen 9 



1 Tsuruga, Echizen cf 



Collectors. 

 Jordan and 



Snyder 

 Jordan and 



Snyder 

 Jordan and 



Snyder 

 Jordan and 



Snyder 

 Jordan and 



Snyder 

 3 Tsuruga, Echizen 2d 1$ Jordan and 



Snyder 

 D. S. Jordan 



D. S. Jordan 



2 Fusan, Korea cf 



1 Fusan, Korea 9 



Where Author's 

 deposited. Register. 



L.S.J.U., 336 

 Cat. 2,000 

 L.S.J.U.. 345 

 Cat, 2,001 

 L.S.J.U., 335 

 Cat, 2,002 

 L.S.J.U., 338 

 Cat. 2,004 

 L.S.J.U., 339 

 Cat. 2,003 

 Not re- 340 

 tained 



L.S.J.U., 337 

 Cat. 2,005 

 L.S.J.U., 334 

 Cat. 2,006 



2 Measurements necessarily inaccurate. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Distribution. — Bay of Tokio (Ortmann) ; Misaki, Sagami ! (Wiil- 

 ker) ; Nagasaki (Appellof) ; Bay of Waka, Kii ( !) ; Tsuruga, Echizen 

 (!); Fusan, Korea (!). Nearly cosmopolitan in the Atlantic, Medi- 

 terranean, and Indian Oceans. 



Polypus granulatus (Lamarck, 1799). 



Sepia rugosa Bosc, 1792, p. 24, pi. 5, figs. 1, 2 (fide Hoyle). 



Octopus granulatus Lamarck, 1799, p. 20. 



Octopus rugosus Brock. 1887, p. 605. 



? Octopus kagoshimensis Ortmann, 1888, p. 644, pi. 21, fig. 2. 



Octopus rugosus Ortmann, 1891, p. 669. 



Octopus granulatus Joubin, 1897a, p. 99. 



Polypus granulatus Wiilker, 1910, p. 5. 



An almost cosmopolitan species characterized by its short, sub-equal 

 arms, only about double the length of the body (Brock), and usually 

 having the formula 4, 3, 2, 1 ; the warted surface (apparently a 

 very variable feature), coloration, etc. I have not discovered this 

 form in any of the material at my disposal. 



Distribution. — Washinokami, Rikuzen (Wiilker) ; Misaki, Sagami 

 (Wiilker); Nagasaki, Hizen (Joubin). Atlantic, Indo-Pacific, etc. 



[Polypus kagoshimensis (Ortmann, 1888).] 



Octopus kagoshimensis Ortmann, 1888, p. 664, pi. 21, fig. 2. 

 Octopus rugosus (pars) Ortmann, 1891, p. 669. 

 Polypus granulatus (pars ?) Wiilker, 1910, p. 6. 



Three years after its description this species was referred by 

 Ortmann himself to 0. rugosus Bosc. (granulatus), and the same 

 course has been somewhat doubtfully followed by Wiilker. 



Distribution. — Kagoshima (type locality, Ortmann). 



Polypus globosus (Appellof, 1886). 



Octopus globosus Appellof, 1886, p. 7, pi. 1, figs. 4, 5. 



Octopus globosus Ortmann, 1888, p. 662. 



Octopus rugosus (pars) Ortmann, 1891, p. 669. 



Octopus globosus Goodrich, 1896, p. 19, pi. 5, fig. SI (hectocotylus). 



Octopus globosus Joubin, 1897«, p. 98. 



Octopus globosus Appellof, 1898, p. 565. 



Polypus globosus Hoyle, 1909, p. 259 (no description). 



This is a rather small species belonging to the same group as 

 P. granulatus and P. kagoshimensis: It has been united with P. 

 rugosus (granulatus) by Ortmann. but this disposition has since been 

 vigorously combated by Appellof. 



Distribution. — Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof). Ternate (Appellof); 

 Straits of Malacca (Goodrich) ; Kabusa Is. (Goodrich) ; Nicobar Is. 

 (Goodrich); Bombay (Goodrich): Point Galle, Ceylon (Goodrich). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



Polypus pusillus (Gould, 1852). 



Octopus pusillus Gould, 1852, p. 478, fig. 591. 

 Octopus pusillus Tryon, 1879, p. 112, pi. 31, figs. 31-33. 

 Octopus pusillus Ortmann, 1888, p. 644, pi. 21, fig. 1. 

 ? Polypus pusillus Hoyle, 1904, p. 16, pi. 4, fig. 5. 



The identity and important characters of this species are scarcely 

 yet established upon a firm basis, for it seems to me questionable 

 whether the Western Pacific specimens referred by Hoyle (1904) 

 to P. pusillus are really conspecific with Gould's type. The rela- 

 tively wide umbrella (one fourth as long as the arms) arm formula 

 1, 2, 3, 4, lack of cirri, smooth skin, and large, prominent eyes 

 appear to be the most salient features noted in Gould's de- 

 scription. 



Distribution. — Kagoshima, Satsuma (Ortmann). Mangsi Islands, 

 China Sea (type locality, Gould) ; off the southwest coast of Central 

 America (Hoyle). 



Polypus macropus (Risso, 1826). 



Octopus macropus Risso, 1826, vol. 4, p. 3 (fide Hoyle). 



Octopus Cuvierii d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1826, Poulpes, pi. 4 



{fide Hoyle). 

 Octopus Cuvieri Appellof, 1886, p. 6, pi. 1, fig. 6. 

 Octopus macropus Hoyle, 1886, pp. 11, 95. 



Octopus macropus Ortmann, 1888, p. 643, pi. 21, fig. 3 (hectocotylus). 

 Octopus macropus Joubin, 1897a, p. 99. 

 Polypus macropus Wi'ilker, 1910, p. 8. 



The loose, soft, elongate body; long, attenuate, and very unequal 

 arms; short umbrella; curiously formed hectocotylus, and nearly 

 smooth surface serve to distinguish P. macropus from any of its 

 Japanese congeners. The arms of the various pairs are conspicu- 

 ously different in proportion, their order persistently 1, 2, 3, 4, and 

 the dorsal pair much the stoutest and longest. The right third 

 arm of the cf is scarcely half as long as its mate of the opposite side 

 and terminates in an extremely conspicuous, oblong, trough-shaped 

 hectocotylus, ornamented with perhaps 8 or 9 prominent transverse 

 ridges on its inner surface and so thickened as to greatly exceed the 

 adjacent portion of the arm in diameter. 



The skin is in general smooth, but the present material shows 

 usually about three small conical tubercles just above and behind 

 each eye-opening, with a few scattered smaller ones occasionally 

 apparent over the rest of the dorsum. 



The more important measurements of two specimens are given 

 below, both being males: 




390 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July 



Length, total 



I ,ength of mantle, dorsal 



Width of mantle 



Width of neck 



Width of head 



Length of funnel 



1 .rugth of right dorsal arm (outside measurement). . 



Length of left dorsal arm (outside measurement) 



Length of right second arm (outside measurement)... 



Length of left second arm (outside measurement) 



I .( ugth of right third arm (outside measurement).... ... 



Length of left third arm (outside measurement) 



Length of right ventral arm (outside measurement ). 



Length of left ventral arm (outside measurement) 



Length of hectocotylus 



Width of hectocotylus 



Width of umbrella between dorsal arms 



Width of umbrella between ventral arms 



Distribution. — Hakodate, Oshima (!); Aomori, Mutsu (!); Matsu- 

 shima, Rikuzen (!); Bay of Tokio (Ortmann); Misaki, Sagami 

 Wtilker !); Yokohama (Hoyle); Bay of Waka, Kii (!); Nagasaki, 

 Hizen (Appellof). 



Canary Islands, Mediterranean Sea, etc. As this species has 

 also been recorded from the Red Sea, Bay of Bengal, Straits of 

 Malacca, and various other localities, its area of distribution appears 

 to form a continuous belt along the entire southern and south- 

 western shores of the Eurasian continent. It is represented in the 

 Stanford University collections by an excellent series of specimens 

 from the following localities: 



No. 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. 



1 Hakodate, Oshima <? Jordan and 



Snyder 



2 Aomori, Mutsu & Jordan and 



Snyder 



3 Mat sushima, Rikuzen 9 2d 1 Jordan and 



Snyder 



Misaki, Sagami 9 Jordan and 



Snyder 



1 Bay of Waka, Kii 9 Jordan and 



Snyder 



Where Author's 

 deposited. Register. 



L.S.J.U., 32S 

 Cat. 2,007 



L.S.J.U., 325 

 Cat. 2,008 



L.S.J.U., 327 

 Cat. 2,009 



L.S.J.U., 346 

 Cat. 2,011 



L.S.J.U., 326 

 Cat. 2,010 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



Polypus hongkongensis (Hoyle, 1885). 



? Octopus punctalus Gabb. 1862, p. 170 (not of Blainville, 1S26). 



Octopus hongkongensis Ho3 r le, 1885a, p. 224. 



Octopus hongkongensis Hoyle, 1885c, p. 99. 



Octopus punctatus -Hoyle, 1886, pp. 11, 100, etc., pi. 5. 



Octopus punctatus Ortmann, 1888, p. 662. 



Octopus punctatus Joubin, 1897, p. 110, pi. 9. 



Octopus punctatus Joubin, 1897o, p. 98. 



Polypus punctatus Wi'ilker, 1910, .p. 7. 



Wulker cites the enormous elongate hectocotylus (^ or more the 

 length of the arm) and the very long arms (7 times the ventral 

 mantle length) as perhaps the most conspicuous features which may 

 be depended upon to distinguish this very distinct species. I am 

 not at all convinced that the Eastern Asiatic species is really iden- 

 tical with the O. punctatus Gabb of California, although without 

 doubt they are very closely related. 



Distribution. — 345 fathoms, off Ino Sima Island (type locality, 

 Hoyle); Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wulker). Hong Kong, China 

 (Hoyle); Kamtschatka (Joubin). 



Polypus dofleini Wulker, 1910. 



Polypus dofleini Wulker, 1910, p. 7, pi. 2, figs. 1, 2; pi. 3, fig. 10. 



A species of the hongkongensis group distinguished by its rela- 

 tively moderate arms (4 times the ventral mantle length) and decid- 

 edly smaller hectocotylus (one-sixteenth as long as the > arm). 



Distribution. — Todohokke, Oshima (type locality, Wulker). 



Polypus sp. Young. 



Catalogue Xo. 2,012, Stanford University Invertebrate Series, 

 contains four small cf Polypi taken by Snyder and Sindo at Tane- 

 gashiBaa Island, Japan [S. S. B. No. 344]. These agree briefly in the 

 following characters, but I am unable to refer them with certainty 

 to any of the described species: 



Body plump, firm, rounded; head short and broad. Dorsal 

 surface finely and quite evenly granulose with numerous minute, 

 acute, pointed papilla?; one or two larger ones over each eye; smooth 

 below. 



Arms moderate, subequal, evenly tapering, about three times as 

 long as the head and body, their order 3 = 2, 4, 1. Suckers large, 

 crowded; one or two of those just inside the web margin on the 

 lateral arms a little larger than the rest, but not abruptly or con- 

 spicuously so. Hectocotylized arm scarcely at all shorter than its 

 mate of the opposite side; the terminal organ very small, smooth, 

 elongate, spoon-shaped. Umbrella short, about equally developed 

 all around. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



( !olor a dark blackish slate, paler below and within the arms. 



Measurements. 



mm . mm. mm. 



Total length 106 So 78 



Length of mantle (dorsal) 18 15 15 



Width of mantle 20 15 14 



Width of neck 14 11.5 lO.o 



Width of head 15 14 13 



Length of funnel 10 9 6 



Length of right dorsal arm 70 56 50 



Length of left dorsal arm 71 55 49 



Length of right second arm 75+ 64 54 



Length of left second arm 83 65 54 



Length of right third arm 78 65 60 



Length of left third arm 84 65 60 



Length of right ventral arm 75 58+ 58 



Length of left ventral arm 75 58 61 



Length of hectocotylus 3 3 3 



Length of umbrella between dorsal 



arms 14 14 8 



Length of umbrella between ven- 

 tral arms 11 12 8 



These specimens in certain ways suggest the P. globosus of Appellof , 

 but the order .of the arms is decidedly different, and the hectocotylus, 

 though very much smaller, is of a similar type to that prevailing 

 in the hongkongensis group. The possibility has not been over- 

 looked that they may be young P. dofleini, but here again the arm 

 formula 1 fail to coincide. 



Polypus januarii (Steenstrup, 1885). 



Octopus januarii "Steenstrup, MS.," Hoyle, 1885a, p. 229. 

 Octopus januarii "Steenstrup, MS.," Hoyle, 1885c, p. 105. 

 Octopus januarii Hoyle, 1886, pp. 11, 76, 97, etc., pi. 7, fig. 4. 

 Octopus Januarii Goodrich, 1896, p. 19. 

 Polypus januarii Hoyle, 1904, p. 18, pi. 5, fig. 2 (radula). 



A very distinct species, well differentiated from all other Japanese 

 Polypi by its soft, smooth integument, pinkish color, swollen eyes, 

 extensive umbrella, short conical hectocotylus, and abyssal habit. 

 It has been taken in this region only by the "Challenger," which 

 secured a single cf specimen at a depth of 1875 fathoms in the 

 North Pacific east of Japan (Hoyle, 1886). 



Distribution. — North Pacific, east of Japan (Hoyle). Off Barra 

 ( Irande, Brazil (type locality, Hoyle) ; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (Hoyle) ; 

 Bay of Bengal (Goodrich); Andaman Sea (Goodrich); off the 

 ( !ocos [slands ( Hoyle). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Polypus pictus fasciatus (Hoyle, 1886). 



Octopus pictus var. fasciata Hoyle, 1S86, p. 94, pi. 8, fig. 3. 



Octopus pictus var. fasciata Goodrich, 1896, p. 19, pi. 5, fig. 82 (hectocotylus). 



Polypus pictus var. fasciata Wulker, 1910, p. 6. 



Characterized by its conspicuous and definite color pattern com- 

 prising various bands of pigment on the body and series of roundish 

 blotches along the outer surfaces of the arms. 



Distribution. — Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wulker). Port Jackson, Aus- 

 tralia (type locality, Hoyle, Goodrich). 



Polypus ocellatus (Gray, 1849). 



Octopus ocellatus d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, Poulpes, pi. 9, 



upper fig. (fide Gray). 

 Octopus ocellatus Gray, 1849, p. 15. 



Octopus membranaceus Tryon (pars), 1879, p. 285 (merely listed), pi. 29, fig. 8. 

 Octopus ocellatus Appellof, 1886, p. 8, pi. 1, figs. 1-3. 

 Octopus areolatus Hoyle (pars), 1886, pp. 8, 86. 

 Octopus ocellatus Brock, 1887, pp. 608, 611. 

 Octopus ocellatus Ortmann, 1888, p. 662 (mere note). 

 Octopus ocellatus Joubin, 1898, p. 22. 



The status of this species is still very uncertain as it is not quite 

 apparent whether the Octopus ocellatus Gray is the same as the 

 Chinese drawing to which the same name was previously applied 

 by d'Orbigny, or whether the 0. ocellatus Appellof is in turn identical 

 with that of Gray. Tryon refers Gray's species to 0. membranaceus, 

 while Hoyle places 0. ocellatus of both Gray and Appellof in the 

 synonymy of 0. areolatus. However, Appellof's determination has 

 been called in question by Brock. 



Wulker, the most recent writer on the subject, lists the species 

 as P. ocellatus Gray. 



Distribution. — Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof); China Sea (type 

 locality, Gray). 



Polypus areolatus (de Haan, 1838). 



Octopus areolatus de Haan MS., 1S35 (fide d'Orbigny). 



Octopus areolatus d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1838, p. 65. 



? Octopus sinensis d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1838, p. 68, pi. 9. 



Octopus areolatus d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 186. 



? Octopus ocellatus Gray, 1849, p. 15. 



Octopus areolatus Hoyle, 1886, pp. 8, 86, 205, etc., pi. 3, figs. 6, 7. 



Octopus areolatus Brock, 1887, pp. 610, 611. 



Octopus brocki Ortman, 1888, p. 645. 



Octopus areolatus Ortmann, 1888, p. 662. 



Octopus areolatus Joubin, 1894, p. 28. 



Octopus areolatus Joubin, 1898, p. 22. 



Polypus areolatus Hoyle, 1904, p. 16. 



Polypus areolatus Wulker, 1910, p. 6. 



P. areolatus is a small species with a compact, pyriform body, 

 widest posteriorly, and with a conspicuous ventral furrow. The 

 head is small and weakly differentiated from the body. The dorsal 

 26 




394 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



surface is quite heavily and evenly papillose with either (1) soft 

 polygonal tubercles, or (2) almost a shagreen of small stellate warts, 

 or (3) fairly smooth when poorly preserved. Ventrally the papillae 

 become nearly obsolete. A group of two large and several smaller 

 papillae surmounts either eye. 



The arms are almost of a length, the second pair slightly longer 

 than the others, but not much more than twice as long as the head 

 and body taken together. They taper evenly to slender extremities. 

 In the male the third right arm is only a little shorter than its mate. 

 The very ample marginal canal is transversely striate within and 

 terminates in a faint groove running down the inner face of the 

 small naked elongate-conical hectocotylus. One sucker of the fifth 

 or sixth pairs on each lateral arm shows a conspicuous enlargement. 



The color of preserved specimens is a dark slaty-brown, paler 

 below and on the inner surface of the umbrella. Obliquely in front 



Fig. 1. — Polypus areolntus, outline drawing of funnel organ, X 2; [148]. 



of and below the eye on either side is a conspicuous eye-like spot, 

 comprising a dark outer ring enclosing within it a narrower ring 

 of a lighter color (usually bluish and showing a faint metallic lustre), 

 and within this a central zone of the same dark shade as the outer 

 ring. There is also a definable but less conspicuous ovoid spot 

 between the eyes of a lighter and browner tint than the general 

 surface. The ocular markings of the six specimens in the Stanford 

 University collection seem much larger than those of the animal 

 figured by Hoyle in the Challenger Report, but I have no doubt 

 b that they are correctly referred to the same species. 



i measurements of a well-preserved male are given below, the 

 men referred to being No. 148 of the author's register. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



mm. 



Total length 203 



Length of body (dorsal) 42 



Width of body 35 



Width of neck 20 



Width of head 21 



Length of funnel 20 



Length of right dorsal arm (inside measurement) 134 



Length of left dorsal arm (inside measurement) 130 



Length of right second arm (inside measurement) 85+ 



Length of left second arm (inside measurement) 142 



Length of right third arm (inside measurement) 120 



Length of left third arm (inside measurement) 121 + 



Length of right ventral arm (inside measurement) 125 



Length of left ventral arm (inside measurement) 120+ 



Length of hectocotylus 7 



Length of umbrella between dorsal arms 28 



Length of umbrella between ventral arms * 24 



Dimensions of ocular spot of right side 7 x 12 



Ortmann separates his P. brocki from P. areolatus on account of 

 (1) the larger ocular spots; (2) the nearly smooth skin; (3) the unusual 

 enlargement of the suckers, and (4) the presence of a brown spot 

 between the eyes. Wulker considers part of these characters due 

 to the preservation and suggests that the remainder are equally 

 applicable to P. areolatus. The present specimens bear out this 

 opinion very fairly. 



Distribution. — Aomori, Mutsu (!); Tsuruga, Echizen (!); Tokio 

 (!); 100 meters off Misaki, Sagami (Wulker); 110 meters off Dzushi, 

 Sagami (Wulker); Bay of Waka, Kii (!); Kagoshima, Satsuma 

 (Ortmann). Hong Kong (Hoyle); south of Papua (Hoyle). 



Material Examined. — 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



2 Aomori, Mutsu d" Jordan and L.S.J.U., 329 



Snyder Cat. 2,013 



1 Tsuruga, Echizen c? Jordan and L.S.J. U., 148 



Snyder Cat, 2,014 



1 Tokio cf Jordan and L.S.J.U., 347 



Snyder Cat, 2,015 



1 Bay of Waka, Kii 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 330 



Snyder Cat. 2,017 



A specimen entered as L. S. J. U., Cat, 2,018 (S. S. B. No. 332], 

 collected by Jordan and Snyder at Tsuruga, Echizen, is not only 

 much larger than any of the specimens above referred to P. areolatus, 




39(3 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



but differs from them so conspicuously in several quite important 

 characters that I feel considerable uncertainty as to whether it is 

 specifically identical with them. 



There is a large irregular tubercle over each eye, but except for 

 this the skin is almost perfectly smooth. At various points on the 

 dorsal surface, however, are to be observed a few small scattered 

 pit-like indentations resembling impressed papilla?, most conspicuous 

 being a diamond-shaped group of four on the middle of the back. 

 The arms are about three and a half times as long as the head and 

 body and very unequal, though this appears to be clue to the fact 

 that many of them have been mutilated and are undergoing regenera- 

 tion. The enlarged suckers and hectocotylus are similar to those 

 just described for P. areolatus. The color is exceedingly dark and 

 the heavy pigmentation extends over even the inner surfaces of the 

 aims and periphery of the suckers, so that the pale inner surfaces 

 of the latter stand out very conspicuously against the slate-colored 

 background. The ocular markings are nearly circular, and the 

 inner light colored ring is nearly as wide as the one enclosing it. 

 There are also traces of another light colored zone or ring outside 

 the latter. The inmost dark core is conspicuously smaller than in 

 the specimens described above. 



The dimensions are as follows: 



mm. 



Total length 340 



Length of body (dorsal) 53 



Width of body 50 



Width of neck 32 



Width of head 37 



Length of right dorsal arm 230 



Length of left dorsal arm 260 



Length of right second arm 200 



Length of left second arm 265 



Length of right third arm 102 ! 



Length of left third arm 160* 



Length of right ventral arm HO 3 



Length of left ventral arm 240 



Length of hectocotylus 3 3 



Length of umbrella between dorsal arms 33 



Length of umbrella between ventral arms 32 



Diameter of oculation, maximum ll|x 14 



Diameter of oculation, excluding outermost light ring 8 x 10 



3 Regenerating. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



[Polypus membranaceus (Quoy and Gaimard, 1832).] 



Octopus membranaceus Quoy and Gaimard, 1S32, p. 89, pi. 6, fig. 5. 

 Octopus membranaceus d'Orbignv and Ferussac, 1838, p. 43, Poulpes, pis. 



10, 28 (/ided'Orbigny). 

 Octopus membranaceus d'Orbignv, 1845, p. 181. 

 Octopus membranaceus Gray, 1849, p. 13. 



Octopus membranaceus Tryon, 1879, p. 124, pi. 28, figs. 20, 21. 

 Amphioctopus membranaceus Fischer, 1882, p. 333. 

 Octopus membranaceus Brock, 1887, pp. 609, 612. 

 Octopus membranaceus Ortmann, 1888, p. 662 (mere note). 

 Octopus areolatus Joubin (pars), 1894, p. 28. 



Reported from Japan by Tryon, who included with this species 

 as synonyms the 0. ocellatus and 0. sinensis of d'Orbignv. The 

 occurrence of undoubted membranaceus in this region needs con- 

 firmation. 



Family AMPHITRETID^E Hoyle, 1886. 



Genus AMPHITRETUS Hoyle, 18S5. 

 Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, 1885. 



Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, 1885, p. 271, fig. 106. 



Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, 1885a, p. 235. 



Amphitretus j)elagicus Hoyle, 1885c, p. 113, fig. 



Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, 1886, pp. 4, 67, etc., pi. 9, figs. 7-9. 



Amphitretus pelagicus Ijima and Ikeda, 1902, pp. 85-101, text figs. 1-3, pi. 2. 



Distribution. — Okinose Bank, near Misaki, Sagami (Ijima and 

 Ikeda). Off the Kermadec Islands (type locality, Hoyle). 



Family ALLOPOSIDiE Verrill, 1881. 



Genus ALL0P0SUS Verrill, 1881. 



Alloposus pacificus Ijima, 1902. 



Alloposus pacificus Ijima in Ijima and Ikeda, 1902, p. 87, note. 



A species not yet sufficiently characterized. 

 Distribution. — Sagami Sea (type locality, Ijima). 



Sub-order DECAPODA Leach, 1818. 

 Division Myopsida d'Orbigny, 1845. 

 Family LOLIGINID^J Steenstrup, 1861. 



Genus L0LIG0 Schneider, 1784. 



Among cephalopods only Polypus and Sepia exceed the wide- 

 spread genus Loligo, in the number of species known from Japanese 

 waters. The following species have been described or identified 

 from this region : 



L. edulis. L. sumatrensis. 



L. chinensis. L. japonica. 



L. kobiensis. L. tetradynamia. 



L. bleekeri. L. aspera. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Loligo edulis Hoyle, 1885. 



Loligo edulis Hoyle, 18856, p. 186. 



Loligo edulis Hoyle, 1885d, p. 289. 



Loligo edulis Hoyle, 1886, pp. 29, 152, etc., pi. 23. 



Loligo edulis Ortmann, 1888, pp. 658, 663. 



Loligo edulis Brazier, 1892, p. 16 (locality record). 



Three specimens in the collections examined agree very fairly 

 with the description given by Hoyle. Two lots of young individuals 

 are referred provisionally to the same species. 



Distribution. — Aomori, Mutsu (!); Same, Mutsu (!); Bay of 

 Tokio (!); Yokohama (type locality, Hoyle); Bay of Waka, Kii 

 (!). Port Jackson, Australia (Brazier). 



Material Examined. — 



No . Where Author' s 



iSp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



1 Bay of Tokio 9 E.S.Morse Yale Univ. 363 



Mus., 

 Cat. 9,641 



2 Bay of Waka, Kii d" Jordan and L.S.J.U., 372 



Snyder Cat. 2,030 



?36 Aomori, Mutsu juv. Jordan and L.S.J.U., 373 



Snyder Cat. 2,028 



? 4 Same, Mutsu juv. Jordan and L.S.J.U., 374 



Snyder Cat. 2,029 



Loligo chinensis Gray, 1849. 



Loligo chinensis Gray, 1849, p. 74. 



Loligo chinensis Tryon, 1879, p. 145. 



Loligo chinensis Ortmann, 1888, pp. 657, 665, pi. 24; pi. 25, figs. 2a-2d. 



Distribution.— Bay of Tokio (Ortmann); Kadsiyama (Ortmann). 

 China (type locality, Gray). 



Loligo kobiensis Hoyle, 1885. 



Loligo kobiensis Hoyle, 18856, p. 184. 



Loligo kobiensis Hoyle, 1885d, p. 287. 



Loligo kobiensis Hoyle, 1886, pp. 29, 154, etc., pi. 25, figs. 1-10. 



Loligo kobiensis Ortmann, 1888, pp. 659, 665. 



A species well characterized among all Japanese forms, except 

 L. aspera, by its large tentacular suckers, the horny rings of which 

 are devoid of teeth. 



Distribution.— Inland Sea (Hoyle); Bay of Kobe, Settsu (type 

 y, Hoyle); Onomichi, Bingo (!); Nagasaki, Hizen (!); Mai- 

 zuru, Tango (Ortmann). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Material Examined. — 

 No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



2 Onomichi, Bingo cf 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 365 



Snyder Cat. 2,031 



2 Nagasaki; Hizen 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 366 



Snyder Cat. 2,032 



Loligo bleekeri Keferstein, 1866. 



Loligo Bleekeri Keferstein, 1866, p. 1402, pi. 122, figs. 9, 10; pi. 127, fig. 14. 



Loligo Bleekeri Tryon, 1879, p. 149, pi. 57, figs. 185, 186. 



Loligo Bleekeri Brock, 1882, p. 604. 



Loligo Bleekeri Appellof, 1886, p. 31, pi. 1, figs. 7-10. 



Loligo bleekeri Hoyle, 1886, pp. 30, 158, etc. 



Loligo bleekeri Ortmann, 1888, pp. 664, 665 (mere note). 



Loligo bleekeri Joubin, 1894, p. 56. 



Loligo bleekeri Wiilker, 1910, pp. 10, 36, etc., pi. 4, fig. 30 (digestive system). 



Distribution. — Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wiilker); Nagasaki, Hizen 

 (Appellof). Amboina (Joubin). 



Loligo sumatrensis d'Orbigny, 1839. 



Loligo sumatrensis d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1839, p. 317; 



Calmars, pi. 13, figs. 1-3 (fide Hoyle). 

 Loligo sumatrensis d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 349. 

 Teuthis sumatrensis Gray, 1849, p. 77. 



Loligo Sumatrensis Tryon, 1879, p. 145, pi. 58, figs. 190, 191 (after d'Orb.). 

 Loligo sumatrensis ? Appellof, 1886, p. 32, pi. 1, fig. 11; pi. 3, figs. 11-15. 

 Loligo sumatrensis Ortmann, 1888, p. 664 (merely listed). 



Distribution. — Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof). Sumatra (type local- 

 ity, d'Orbigny). 



Loligo japonica Steenstrup, 1885. 



Loligo japonica Steenstrup, MS., in Hoyle, 18856, p. 187. 

 Loligo japonica Steenstrup, MS., in Hoyle, 1885cZ, p. 290. 

 Loligo japonica Hoyle, 18S6, pp. 30, 157, etc., pi. 24, figs. 7-15. 

 Loligo japonica Ortmann, 1888, p. 663. 



The nearest ally of this distinct little species is the next following 

 and it now appears quite likely that the two are identical. 



Distribution. — Yokohama (Hoyle); Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wiilker). 



Loligo tetradynamia Ortmann, 1888. 



Loligo tetradynamia Ortmann, 188S, p. 659, pi. 23, figs. 4a-ik; pi. 25, fig. 1. 



This small and curious species, although admittedly showing 

 close affinity to L. japonica, was differentiated by Ortmann on* the 

 following grounds : 



1. The suckers of the lateral arms are very much larger than 

 those of the dorsal and ventral pairs, a condition prevailing equally 

 in both sexes. 



2. There are no suckers upon the buccal membrane. 



3. The arms of the third pair do not possess a membranous keel. 



4. The structure of the hectocotylus is different. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Viewed casually, these features appear sufficiently diagnostic. 

 Nevertheless, an examination of the large series of. specimens before 

 me causes me to incline very strongly to the opinion that L. tetra- 

 dynamia will eventually prove to be entirely synonymous with 

 L. japonica, although the differences apparent in the descriptions 

 of the hectocotylized arms and one or two other less important 

 divergencies deter me at present from uniting them. In this regard 

 a comparison of the respective type specimens with one another 

 would certainly prove of the utmost service. 



The present specimens appear to belong beyond dispute to L. 

 tetradynamia, and yet in several particulars Ortmann's diagnosis is 

 not quite sufficient 'to embrace them. The hectocotylus is as de- 

 scribed by Ortmann. Likewise the suckers of the lateral arms are 

 invariably of conspicuously greater size than those of the dorsal 

 and ventral pairs. However, this statement is decidedly not true 

 of both sexes in equal degree, since in all the males I have seen the 

 suckers of the lateral arms are at least half again as large as those of 

 a female of the same size. Other differences to be noted are that 

 the horny rings of the larger tentacular suckers are toothed all 

 round, not alone upon the distal border, with some 23-25 blunt 

 teeth, and that the arms of the third pair are possessed of a decided 

 keel. 



Indeed, the females accord suspiciously well* with the specimen 

 of japonica taken by the Challenger Expedition in the Yokohama 

 Market. The chief points of difference are that here the dorsal 

 arms are distinctly keeled instead of rounded, as stated by Hoyle, 

 and he makes no mention of the great disparity in the size of the 

 suckers, although his phrase "and vary in size in accordance with 

 the arms on which they are situated" may amount to the same 

 thing. Comparison with his excellent figure distinctly fortifies 

 the latter interpretation. Likewise the tentacles are compressed 

 and angular rather than cylindrical, and I have discovered no suckers 

 on the buccal membrane, though I do not regard this observation 

 as proving their absence there. These items of difference, however, 

 seem to be very minor, and were it not for Hoyle's careful description 

 of the curious hectocotylized arm of a male in the Copenhagen 

 Museum which he held to be eonspecific with his type, there could 

 be little hesitation in relegating L. tetradynamia to the synonymy. 



Distribution.— Same, Mutsu (!); Bay of Tokio (type locality, 

 Ortmann, etc. !); Okayama, Bizen (!); Kochi, Toza (Ortmann); 

 Kawatana, Hizen (!). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Material Exam ined. — 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



2 Same, Mutsu tf Jordan and L.S.J. U., 369 



Snyder Cat, 2,033 

 5 Bay of Tokio & 9 E. S. Morse Yale Univ. 367 



Mus., 



Cat, o,e:o 



1 Bay of Tokio 9 E.S.Morse S.S.B., 368 



coll., 2,404 



14 Tokio cf 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 370 



Snyder Cat, 2,034 



1 Okavama, Bizen cf AlanOwston L.S.J.U., 393 



Cat. 2,086 

 7 Kawatana, Hizen cf 1 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 371 



Snyder Cat. 2,035 



LoligO aspera Ortmann, 1888. 



Loligo aspera Ortmann, 1888, p. 661, pi. 25, figs. 3a-3d. 

 This species is so far known only from Kochi, Toza, the type 

 locality, and I am not aware that it has been observed since its 

 original description by Ortmann. 



Genus SEPIOTEUTHIS Blainville, 1S25. 

 [Sepioteuthis sinensis d'Orbigny, 1S39.] 



Sepioteuthis sinensis d'Orbigny, in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1839, p. 304. 

 Sepioteuthis sinensis d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 329. 

 Sepioteuthis sinensis Tryon, 1879, p. 154. 



D'Orbigny applied this name to a squid said to be eaten by the 

 Japanese. No specific characters have been given. 



Sepioteuthis lessoniana Ferussac, 1826. PI. VI, figs. 3, 5. 



Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Ferussac in d'Orbigny, 1S26, p. 155. 



Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Lesson, 1830, p. 241, pi. 11. 



Sepioteuthis Lessoniana d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1S39, p. 302; Sepiot., pi. 1; 



pi. 6, figs. 9-14 (fide Hoyle). 

 Sepioteuthis Lessoniana d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 326. 

 Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Gray, 1849, p. SO. 



Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Keferstein, 1866, p. 1402, pi. 122, fig. 7. 

 Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Tryon, 1879, p. 152, pi. 62, fig. 212; pi. 64, fig. 213. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Appellof, 1886, p. 31. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Hoyle, 1886, pp. 27, 151, etc. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Ortmann, 188S, pp. 657, 665. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Ortmann, 1891, p. 676. 

 Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Joubin, 1894, p. 39. 

 Sepioteuthis Lessoniana Joubin, 1S98, p. 26. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Hoyle, 1909, p. 265. 

 Sepioteuthis lessoniana Wiilker, 1910, pp. 11, 28, 36, etc., pi. 3, fig. 28; pi. 



4, figs. 29, 31. 



Body elongate, massive, dorso-ventrally compressed; contour elon- 

 gate ovoid, tapering rapidly to a blunt point behind. Mantle very 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



thick and heavy; its anterior margin free, produced forward to a 

 rounded point in the nuchal region, and similarly, but to a much 

 less degree, ventrally; broadly emarginate below the funnel. Fins 

 large; attached along the entire length of the mantle, which they 

 slightly exceed both in front and behind in the specimen furnishing 

 the description (a cf from Wakanoura), though not in the others. 

 Cartilaginous articulations as usual in the genus, large and very 

 prominent. 



Head of moderate size, squarish. Eyes large and prominent. In 

 front of the orbit is a large pore ; behind it the integument is raised into 

 a very prominent crest, bilobate, curved, and somewhat excavated 

 in front, with the "olfactory" pore sheltered- just below its dorsal 

 margin. Funnel very large, very wide at the base and tapering 

 bluntly to a rounded extremity; aperture large and directed down- 

 ward, with well-developed lips and valve; supported above by a 

 fleshy bridle at the base of the funnel groove. 



Arms of moderate length, stout, squarish, unequal; the order of 

 length not constant, but in my best specimens 3, 4, 2, 1 . All the arms 

 are outwardly keeled and provided with a broad marginal membrane 

 supported by numerous transverse fleshy processes having their origin 

 between the bases of the sucker pedicels. The latter is best developed 

 on the third pair and least on the ventral arms. The keel, however, 

 attains its maximum on the ventral arms, where it is developed as 

 a broad, thickened web ensheathing the base of the tentacles. These 

 arms are also furnished with a second less prominent keel running 

 down their inner margins. Suckers large, regularly alternating 

 in two rows on all the arms; horny rings prominent, armed with 

 about 18 to 22 stout acute, curved teeth. 



The hectocotylization affects the left ventral arm of the male 

 after the fashion usual in this genus and in Loligo. The first 19 

 pairs of suckers are normal ; they then become much reduced, and 

 after the 24th pair are supplanted by stout conical papilla?. On the 

 first four or five papilla? the suckers persist, though in a very rudi- 

 mentary way, but soon become entirely obsolete. • The integument 

 on and between the papilla? of the Wakanoura specimen is much 

 folded and lobed, a condition perhaps due to the action of the 

 preservative. 



Tentacles rather short, laterally much compressed and keeled 



on both outer and inner margins. The outer keel becomes expanded 



i a broad fleshy web along the distal portion of the club. The 



soon becomes obsolete and is succeeded by an abruptly 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



differentiated flattened area, where the integument is finely and 

 irregularly plicate. Club large, comprising nearly half the length 

 of the tentacle, and provided with a broad trabeculate marginal 

 membrane similar to that of the sessile arms. Suckers in four rows, 

 large near the middle, diminishing in size toward either end, distally 

 becoming very minute, and showing the spoon-shaped arrangement 

 at the tip described by Goodrich (1896, p. 6) and Hoyle (1904, p. 31) 

 for related species; horny rings with 18-20 stout, acute, incurved 

 teeth. 



Buccal membrane seven-pointed, bearing from three to five 

 minute suckers on each lappet. The suckers are pedunculate and 

 have horny rings. 



Gladius lanceolate; the lateral thickenings diverging from the 

 thick midrib extend along the middle of the wings for the posterior 

 two-thirds of their length (PI. VI, fig. 5). 



Color of preserved specimens brownish-buff, heavily reticulated 

 above with purplish-black, lighter below, and with the ventral sur- 

 faces of the fins unmarked. 



Measurements. 



The more important measurements of two male specimens are 



given below: 



No. 36. No. 341. 



mm. mm. 



Length, total 360 400+ 



Length of mantle, dorsal „.... 207 235 



Width of mantle 70 75 



Width across fins at widest point '. 165 156 



Width of fin at widest point, ventral : 50 48 



Width of head 53 61 , 



Length of dorsal arm 61 68 



Length of second arm 76 84 



Length of third arm 95 102 



Length of ventral arm 90 95 



Length of hectocotylized portion 26 24 



Length of tentacle 127 158 



Length of tentacle club 63 79 



Diameter of largest sucker on third arm 4 4 



Diameter of largest sucker on tentacle 5 6 



Distribution. — Tsuruga, Echizen (!); Tokio (Ortmann); Misaki, 

 Sagami (!); Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wtilker); Wakanoura, Kii (!); 

 Bay of Waka, Kii (!); Kagoshima, Satsuma (Ortmann); Nagasaki, 

 Hizen (Appellof, !) ; Fusan, Korea (!). Trincomalee (d'Orbigny); 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Ceylon (Ortmann); Cape Fabre (d'Orbigny); Java (d'Orbigny, 

 Keferstein); Ternate (Hoyle); Amboina (Joubin); New Guinea 

 (d'Orbigny); Apia, Samoa (!); Kandava, Fiji (Hoyle); New Zea- 

 land ((iray). 



As the original figures of d'Orbigny and Ferussac have not been 

 accessible to me, I have not referred the specimens in hand to this 

 species without a certain amount of hesitation, and hence have 

 thought it well to enter somewhat fully into the details of their 

 description. Few of the species of Sepioteuthis have been as well 

 characterized in the literature as they should be, but I have little 

 doubt that the present material is at least identical with that from 

 the same region which authors before me have identified as S. les- 

 soniana. The species is said to attain a length of three feet, but 

 the maximum dimension given by Hoyle in respect to the specimens 

 taken by the "Challenger" is only 570 mm. 



If correctly understood, this form would seem to have a surprising 

 range in the tropical and subtropical waters of the Pacific, and 

 possibly several other nominal species should be relegated to the 

 synonymy. 



Material Examined. — 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



1 Tsuruga, Echizen 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 35 



Snyder Cat, 2,041 



3 Misaki, Sagami juv. Jordan and L.S.J.U., 37 



Snyder Cat, 2,036 



9 Misaki, Sagami juv. Jordan and L.S.J. II., 40 



Snyder Cat. 2,037 



4 Bay of Waka, Kii juv. Jordan and L.S.J. U., 41 



Snyder Cat. 2,039 

 1 Wakanoura, Kii cT Jordan and L.S.J.U., 36 



Snyder Cat. 2,038 

 4 Nagasaki, Hizen juv. Jordan and L.S.J.U., 38 



Snyder Cat, 2,040 



1 Fusan, Korea tf D. S. Jordan L.S.J.U., 341 



Cat. 2,042 



6 Fusan, Korea tf 9 D. S.Jordan L.S.J.U., 342 



Cat. 2,043 

 3 Apia, Samoa <? 9 D. S. Jordan L.S.J.U., 39 



Cat, 2,044 

 Sepioteuthis sieboldi Joubin, 1898. 



Sepioteuthis Sieboldi Joubin, 1893, p. 27 (fide Hoyle). 



I have not seen the description of this species. 



Distribution.— Japan (Joubin). Waigeou (Joubin). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Sepioteuthis brevis Owen, issi. 



Sepioteuthis brevis Owen, 1881, p. 137, pi. 26, fig. 1. 

 Sepioteuthis brevis ( = lessoniana ?) Wiilker, 1910, pp. 11, 22. 



At best a doubtful species. 

 Distribution . — Japan (Owen) . 



Family IDIOSEPIIDiE Appellof, 1898. 



Genus IDIOSEPIUS Steenstrup, 1881. 

 Idiosepius paradoxa (Ortmann, 1888). 



? Idiosepius pygmceus Steenstrup, 1881, p. 219, pi. 1, figs. 11-22. 

 Microteuthis paradoxa Ortmann, 1888, pp. 649, 665, pi. 22, fig. 4. 

 Microteuthis paradoxa Joubin, 1902, p. 105, fig. 15. 

 Idiosepius pygmceus Wiilker, 1910, p. 22 (merely listed). 



By Wiilker this species is considered to be identical with /. pyg- 

 mceus Steenstrup, and such may well prove to be the case. 

 Distribution. — Kadsiyama (type locality, Ortmann). 



Family SEPIOLID^E Steenstrup, 1861. 

 Sub-family SEPIOLIN^E s. s. 

 Genus INIOTEUTHIS Verrill, 1881. 

 Inioteuthis japonica (Tilesius MS.?) Verrill, 1881. PL V, fig. 5. 



? Sepiola Japonica d'Orbigny (from Tilesius MS.) in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 



1839, p. 234, No. 3 (fide d'Orbigny). 

 ? Sepiola Japonica d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 251. 

 ? Sepiola ? Japonica Gray, 1849, p. 93. 

 ? Sepiola japonica Steenstrup, 1857, pp. 93, 94. 

 ? Sepiola Japonica Tryon, 1879, p. 157. 

 Inioteuthis Japonica Verrill, 1881, p. 417, footnote. 

 Inioteuthis japonica Appellof , 1886, p. 16. 

 Inioteuthis japonica Hoyle, 1886, pp. 17, 113, etc. 



Inioteuthis japonica Ortmann, 1888, p. 647, pi. 21, fig. 6; pi. 22, fig. 2. 

 Inioteuthis japonica Joubin, 1897a, p. 101. 

 Sepiola japonica Joubin, 1902, p. 95, fig. 10. 

 Inioteuthis japonica Hoyle, 1904, p. 27. 

 Inioteuthis japonica Wiilker, 1910, p. 10. 

 Sepiola inioteuthis Naef, 1912a, pp. 265, 266, 268. 



The species Sepiola japonica was published by d'Orbigny from a 

 manuscript letter of Tilesius and I cannot find that any specimens 

 were seen by d'Orbigny himself. Gray (1849) copied his diagnosis 

 from d'Orbigny, but expressed some doubt as to its proper reference 

 to Sepiola. Then except for a brief mention in Tryon's " Manual" 

 (1879) we find it otherwise unnoticed for over thirty years. Finally 

 a small collection of squids obtained by Prof. E. S. Morse in the Bay 

 of Tokio was sent by him to Prof. A. E. Verrill, then engaged with 

 his report on "The Cephalopods of the Northeastern Coast. " These 

 specimens furnished the descriptions of two species which were 

 accordingly published in the appendix of this report as a footnote 

 (1881, p. 417), and the genus Inioteuthis was erected to receive them. 

 The form now under consideration was expressly made the 




40(i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



type 4 and identified with the Sepiola Japonica of d'Orbigny, although 

 upon exactly what grounds other than general probability does not 

 seem to be entirely clear. A great many points yet remain to be 

 cleared up, and, as I have been able through the kindness of Prof. 

 Yerrill himself to secure the use of the majority of his specimens, 

 they have been made the basis of the more extended description of 

 the species given herewith: 



Body short and saccular; mantle in the male somewhat ..bell- 

 shaped, widest in front, tapering rapidly to a rounded posterior 

 extremity; in the adult female more rounded and cylindrical, less 

 tapering, and relatively much more plump. Nuchal commissure 

 rather wide, but considerably narrower than in Euprymim morsei. 

 Mantle margin usually, but not ahvays, more or less emarginate 

 beneath, permitting the siphon a greater freedom of movement. 



Fins thin, small, subcircular, forming a lobe in front; attachment 

 narrow, considerably above the median horizontal plane of the 

 body; position with regard to the mantle almost median in the 

 adult, but in the young placed much further back. 



Head oblong, flattened above; width inclusive of the eyes about 

 twice the length. Funnel long, tapering, rather slender. Locking- 

 apparatus comprising an oblong groove on either side of the base 

 of the funnel and folds to correspond on the inner surface of the 

 mantle. The grooves are provided with a thickened reflexed margin. 

 The folds are simple narrow ridges, much longer than the grooves. 



Eyes of moderate size; openings small. "Olfactory organ" 

 situated considerably below and behind the lid opening. 



Arms short, fleshy, but fairly slender; the first pair the shortest 

 and smallest, the rest subequal; third pair obscurely carinate, 

 stouter and somewhat longer than the others. A poorly developed 

 web connects the arms at the base, but is obsolete or wanting between 

 the ventral pair. Suckers in two alternating rows; in the female 

 very minute and alike on all the arms; somewhat modified in the 

 male. Left dorsal arm of the male very conspicuously hectocotylized ; 

 at its extreme base appear one or two very minute and rudimentary 

 suckers, these immediately succeeded by a huge ridge-like swelling, 

 irregularly oval in shape and somewhat suggestive of the concha 

 of the human ear; this curious organ extends about half way up the 

 arm and is apparently formed by the fusion of exceedingly modified 

 obscured sucker pedicels, though it bears no suckers. The 

 he structure given by Ortmann is recognizable, but scarcely 



species, /. morsei, has since become the type of Steenstrup's genus . 

 Euprymna. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



more. The distal half of the arm is sucker bearing, but on the 

 specimen in hand only the pedicels remain. The right dorsal arm 

 is essentially like that of the 9 except that the suckers along its 

 central portion are very much larger than the rest and hence fewer 

 in number. The same peculiarity is true of the outer row of suckers 

 on the second pair of arms of the d 7 " and to a much less degree of 

 the ventral arms. The suckers of the third-arm pair are very minute 

 and relatively very widely spaced. 



Individual suckers of the sessile arms nearly spherical, with very 

 small apertures and smooth horny rings. They break off with such 

 ease that few of my specimens retain an average of more than two 

 or three on each arm. 



Tentacles slender, as long as the body, but when bent back not 

 extending beyond the fins; tentacular club but little thickened, 

 with a thin membrane along its inner margin, its inner surface 

 villous; a microscopic examination shows the velvety appearance 

 to be due to the exceeding minuteness of the suckers which clothe it; 

 the latter long pediceled and closely placed in about eight rows. 

 Individual suckers bell-shaped, the wide openings surrounded by a 

 papillary area, outside of which is a thin, broad, outwardly flaring, 

 striate membrane; horny rings well developed, seemingly armed 

 with twenty or more distinct acute teeth, but it is not outside the 

 range of possibility that the apparent teeth may be merely very 

 large papilla? or chitinous projections from the papillary border. 



Beak and radula not examined. Gladius none. 



Color when living not observed; in alcohol a pale yellowish-brown, 

 the chromatophores appearing as bluish-black spots, quite small 

 and distinct on the mantle, larger and more run together on the head. 



Measurements. 



Cotypes. 



Sex '. 'cT & 9 9 



Number in author's register [112] [111] [391] [392] 



Length total (excluding tentacles).... 40 32 35 31 



Length of mantle, dorsal 19 16 17.5 15 



Width of body 12 12 13 10.5 



Width of nuchal commissure 5.5 5 6 5 



Width across fins 23 25 24 



Length of fin, extreme 10 9.5 9 



Length of fin at point of attachment. 6.5 5.5 6 5.5 



Length of dorsal arm (left side) 16 9 10.5 10 



Length of second arm 18 14 12 12 



Length of third arm 18 14 13 12 



Length of ventral arm 13 13.5 12 10 



Length of tentacle :... 27 23 26 20 




•408 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Type.— Cat. No. 9,639 (part), Yale University Museum; a male. 

 Cotypes of same sex in Yale University Museum and the author's 



collection. 



Type Locality.— Bay of Yeddo (Tokio), Japan; Edward S. Morse. 



Distribution. — Matsushima, Rikuzen (!); Bay of Tokio (!); 

 Enoshima, Sagami (!); Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wtilker); Nagasaki, 

 Hiz en (Joubin). 



Specimens Examined: — 



pj Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



v Bay of Tokio c? E.S.Morse Yale Univ. Ill 



Mus., 

 Cat. 9,639 

 (cotypes) 

 1 Bay of Tokio & E.S.Morse S.S.B., 112 



(cotype) 

 5 Bav of Tokio 9 E.S.Morse Yale Univ. 390 



Mus., 

 Cat. 9,639a 

 1 Bay of Tokio ,9 E. S. Morse S.S.B., 391 



1 Matsushima, Rikuzen... * 9 L.S.J.U., 392 



Cat. 2,019 



1 Enoshima, Sagami 9 A. Owston L.S.J. IT., 389 



Cat. 2,020 



Since the establishment of the genus and the elimination of 

 Euprymna morsei, Inioteuthis has been enriched by the addition of 

 but one other species, the J. maculosa Goodrich 1896. In the mean- 

 while the actual status of the group has been the occasion of con- 

 siderable discussion. Unquestionably, the most important known 

 difference separating Inioteuthis from Sepiola is the absence of a^ 

 gladius in the former, the generic significance of which feature in a 

 case such as the present is certainly not yet fully established. 



/. maculosa does not seem to differ very strikingly from the Japanese 

 species and further information regarding it would be very useful. 

 It has been reported from the Andaman Islands, Ceylon, and the 

 Persian Gulf. 



Genus EUPRYMNA Steenstrup, 1887. 



Euprymna morsei (Verrill, 1881) Steenstrup, 1887. PI. VI, figs. 1, 2. 



Inioteuthis Morsei Verrill, 1881, p. 417, footnote. 



? Sepiola bursa Pfeffer, 1884, p. 6, fig. 6. 



Inioteuthis Morsei Appellof, 1886, p. 15, pi. 2, figs. 15, 16; pi. 3, figs. 16, 19, 



20, 23. 

 Inioteuthis morsei Hoyle, 1886, pp. 17, 112, etc., pi. 14, figs. 1-9. 

 orymna Morsei Steenstrup, 1887. p. 66 [20]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



Euprymna Morsei Steenstrup, 1887a, p. 89 [43]. 



Inioteuthis morsei Ortmann, 1888, pp. 647, 665, pi. 21, fig. 7; pi. 22, fig. 3. 



Inioteuthis Morsei Joubin, lS97o, p. 101 (dimensions, fide Hoyle). 



Inioteuthis Morsei Joubin, 1902, p. 97, figs. 11, 12. 



Euprymna morsei Hoyle, 1904, p. 26. 



Euprymna morsei Hoyle, 1904a, p. 198. 



Euprymna morsei Hoyle, 1905, p. 981. 



not Euprymna morsei Berry, 1909, p. 418 (locality record). 



Euprymna morsei Wulker, 1910, pp. 9, etc., pi. 1, fig. 9; pi. 3, figs. 23, 24; 



pi. 4, fig. 40 (anatomy). 

 Euprymna morsei Naef, 1912, p. 247. 



5 Animal small, sepiolif orm ; body short, thick, rounded, the 

 lateral diameter on the average equal to about three-fourths of the 

 length. Fins large, semicircular, attached very obliquely in- advance 

 of the middle of the body; broadest posteriorly; anterior ]obe 

 conspicuous and abruptly notched at its inner margin so that the 

 attached portion of the fin comprises but about the posterior two- 

 thirds of the total length. Mantle margin projecting well forward 

 ventrally, but with a deep, notch-like emargination just below and 

 encompassing the funnel; united dorsally with the head by means 

 of a very wide commissure, so that the opening of the mantle cavity 

 attains only to a point just back of, and superior to, the eye opening 

 on either side. 



Head almost as broad as the body, the length somewhat exceeded 

 by the width; flattened above; beneath slightly excavated for the 

 reception of the funnel. Eyes very large and prominent, somewhat 

 swollen. Funnel large, very elongate, but in the best preserved 

 specimens not nearly reaching to the margin of the web between the 

 ventral arms; tip with three heavy longitudinal ridges 6 on its interior 

 surface, just back of which on the dorsal wall is a minute triangular 

 valve; general surface of interior transversely ridged. Funnel 

 organ posterior in position, large, tripartite, comprising a broad 

 triangular-hepatiform median pad on the dorsal wall and a pair 



3 Verrill's original diagnosis (1881, p. 417, footnote) is* as follows: 



"Inioteuthis Morsei V., sp. nov. This is easily distinguished from the pre- 

 ceding [/. japonica] by the presence of four crowded rows of suckers on all the 

 arms; the suckers are attached by slender pedicles, which arise from the top of 

 prominent, thickened, basal stems. The tentacular clubs are well developed, 

 with exceedingly numerous, very minute suckers, in more than sixteen rows. 

 Fins large, situated in advance of the middle of the body. Dorsal and ventral 

 arms about equal; two lateral pairs longer, the third pair slightly longer than 

 the second. Mantle edge, beneath, with a large emargination; dorsal com- 

 missure broad. 



"No males of this species are in the collection; therefore I refer it to this 

 genus only provisionally. It has no pen." 



I am inclined to consider these ridges a physiological modification attendant 

 upon the conditions of preservation of the specimen furnishing the description. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



of large elongate-pyriform cushions on the ventral wall; a narrow 

 membranous ridge running down the centre of the median pad 

 terminates anteriorly in a minute slender papilla. 



Arms rather short, but the shortest ones usually at least as long 

 as the mantle, the others somewhat longer; unequal, the order of 

 relative length usually about 2, 3, 4 = l 7 ; dorsal (outer) margin of 

 ventral arms carinate, the others rounded; outer surfaces smooth. 

 Umbrella lacking or at best rudimentary between the dorsal arms, 

 better developed between the dorsal and second arms and between 

 these and the third pair; between the third and fourth pairs it 

 extends for over one-quarter of their length as a broad web ensheath- 

 ing the base of the tentacles, becoming again much reduced or even 

 obsolete between the ventral arms. Suckers on all the arms closely 

 crowded in four rows, except at the extreme base where they appear 

 in two to three rows; obliquely poised on stout conical pedicels 

 so that they are easily rubbed off, leaving the stumpy pedicels intact ; 

 nearly spherical; apertures small, with smooth horny rings. 



The above remarks I believe to be equally applicable to either 

 sex, but in the detailed arrangement and appearance of the suckers 

 a number of fairly conspicuous differences become evident. In the 

 9 the suckers at corresponding parts of all the arms are subequal 

 and exceedingly minute, their diameter little greater than that of the 

 thickened bases of the pedicels. In the d\ left ventral arm conspicu- 

 ously hectocotylized; distinctly thicker and perhaps a little shorter 

 than its mate; all the suckers nearly as small as in the 9 , the first 

 two or three pairs in two to three rows, the remainder in four; about 

 where the four-rowed condition commences, two components of 

 the outermost (ventral) row become modified as a pair of elongate 

 suckerless papillae; subsequent to this point ensue about six quar- 

 tets of normal suckers reaching somewhat less than half way up the 

 arm. Here the suckers of the two ventral rows are succeeded by a 

 single series of much enlarged, compressed, transversely elongate, 

 tightly palisaded papillae of a very characteristic appearance, bearing 

 the merest rudiments of suckers at their tips; these rudiments have 

 mouth-like apertures, but do not have the appearance of mere lips 

 a- figured by Hoyle for E. stenodactyla, since close examination reveals 

 the presence of well-developed though minute horny rings, their 

 margins minutely but distinctly dentate with a number of acutely 



7 Variations from this formula occur frequently in my material, but in this 

 instance the majority of them seem due merely to poor preservation. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



pointed triangular teeth. The number of these papillae is about 

 thirty, the largest occurring in the neighborhood of the tenth, thence 

 gradually diminishing in size toward the tip. The suckers of the 

 dorsal rows maintain their arrangement in two series and there are 

 about three more pairs of unmodified suckers than in the ventral 

 row, but at this point they, too, become affected, their pedicels much 

 swollen and puffed out, and the suckers themselves relatively much 

 reduced, though not to quite so great a degree as in the ventral row. 

 The horny ring from one of these also shows minute teeth. The 

 right dorsal arm is longer, more slender, and more closely approxi- 

 mates the condition found in the 9 , but most of the suckers from 

 the present specimens have been lost through abrasion, so there may 

 have been minute differences now impossible to observe. On the 

 second arms most, if not all, of the suckers of both the two outermost 

 rows are two to three times as large as those of the two median rows, 

 except near the tip, where all are again subequal. My specimens 

 do not warrant the assertion that a similar condition prevails on the 

 third pair, but it certainly reappears on the ventral arms and is here 

 again nearly as conspicuous as on those of the second pair. A large 

 sucker taken from the latter is rotund, its base somewhat heart- 

 shaped; horny rings deep, smooth, but with a lateral indentation 

 on each margin, above which a large, thin, hood-shaped expansion 

 obstructs part of the aperture and destroys its otherwise nearly 

 circular outline. 



Tentacles stout, elastic, cylindrical; inner surface slightly flattened; 

 half as long again as the body and more. Clubs little expanded, 

 keeled, tips recurved; inner face rounded, everywhere armed with 

 exceedingly numerous and minute, long-stalked suckers, giving it a 

 finely villous appearance. 



Buccal membrane fleshy, pointed, rugose within. 



Radula not examined. 



Gladius wanting. 



Color in alcohol a light brownish-buff; heavily maculated both 

 above and below with numerous large dark slate-colored chromato- 

 phores, which are least numerous on the inner surfaces of the arms 

 and the lower aspect of the fins. On the under side of the latter 

 over the area adjacent to the base of attachment they are absent. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Measurements. 

 Number in author's register [291] 



Sex ? 



Length, total 140 



Tip of body to base of dorsal arms... 58 



Tip of body to tip of dorsal arms 101 



Length of mantle, dorsal 40 



Width of mantle 26 



Width of dorsal commissure 14 



Width across fins 58 



Length of fins, total 22 



Length of fins along plane of attach- 

 ment 14 



Length of head 19 



Width of head 23 



Length of right dorsal arm 8 36 



Length of left dorsal arm 8 35 



Length of second arm 8 46 



Length of third arm 8 39 



Length of ventral arm 8 36 



Length of tentacle 80 



Length of tentacle club 16 



Length of funnel 24 



Number in author's register [290] 



Sex cf 1 



Length, total 119 



Tip of body to base of dorsal arms.... 43 



Tip of body to tip of dorsal arms 84 



Length of mantle, dorsal 32 



Width of mantle 20 



Width of dorsal commissure 12 



Width across fins 40 



Length of fins, total 16 



Length of fins along plane of attach- 

 ment 10 



Length of head 12 



Width of head 17 



Length of right dorsal arm 8 37 



Length of left dorsal arm 8 25 



Length of second arm 8 40 



Length of third arm 8 33 + 



Length of ventral arm 8 36 



Length of tentacle 74 



Length of tentacle club 11 



Length of funnel 19 



s Measured along inner face from outer base of buccal membrane. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Type. — Cat. 9,638, Yale University Museum, a female [S. S. B. 

 No. 105]. Cotypes in Yale University Museum and in Cat. No. 2,402 

 of the author's collection, also .a female. 



Type Locality.- — Bay of Yeddo (Tokio), Japan; Edward S. Morse; 

 3 9. 



Distribution.— Bay of Tokio (Verrill,!); off Misaki, Sagami 

 (Wtilker); off Dzushi, Sagami (Wtilker); Wakanoura, Kii (!); 

 Bay of Waka, Kii (!); off Kobe, Settsu (Hoyle); Onomichi, Bingo 

 (!); Kagoshima, Satsuma (Ortmann); Kadsiyama (Ortmann); 

 Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof, Joubin, !); Takao, Formosa (!). Hong 

 Kong, China (!); Gulf of Manaar (Hoyle); Andaman Islands 

 (Goodrich); Maldive Archipelago (Hoyle). 



Specimens Examined. — 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Sex. Collector. deposited. Register. 



1 Bay of Tokio 9 E. S. Morse Yale Univ. 105 



Mus., 

 Cat. 9,638 

 (cotvpe) 



1 Bay of Tokio 9 E.S.Morse S.S.B., 288 



Cat. 2,402 

 (cotype) 



1 AYakanoura, Kii 9 Jordan and L.S.J.U., 293 



Snyder Cat. 2,022 



3 Bav of Waka, Kii 9 & Jordan and L.S.J.U., 294 



Snyder Cat, 2,023 



3 Onomichi, Bingo 9 c? Jordan and L.S.J. U., 292 



Snyder Cat. 2,021 



4 Nagasaki, Hizen 9 c? Jordan and L.S.J.U., 289 



Snyder Cat. 2,024 

 1 Japan 9 ? L.S.J.U., 291 



Cat, 2,025 

 3 Takao, Formosa 9 cf HansSauter L.S.J.U., 290 



Cat, 2,026 



5 Hong Kong, China 9 cf W.H.A.Put- Mus.Comp. 283 



nam, 1861 . Zool., 

 Cat. 1,571 



1 Hong Kong, China 9 W.H.A.Put- Mus.Comp. 284 



nam Zool., 



Cat. 3,446 



2 Hong Kong, China 9 & W.H.A.Put- Mus.Comp. 285 



nam Zool., 



Cat, 1,537 



The material at my disposal referable to this species has been 

 so unusual both in quantity and character, including even the 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



original type specimens of Verrill, that despite the juvenility of 

 the latter and the admittedly unfavorable preservation of the re- 

 mainder L have thought it well to redescribe the species throughout 

 as carefully and completely as the material would allow. One of the 

 types is likewise figured on Plate VI. Some of the nearly allied species 

 are most puzzlingly close, but it is hoped that the data here given 

 will prove sufficient to prevent its confusion with any of them. It 

 must be confessed, however, that I have been unable to select any 

 characters or combinations of characters which I am certain will 

 suffice to distinguish a series consisting of females alone from any 

 other species of the genus. The males appear to be constantly 

 characterized by the large number of modified suckers on the hecto- 

 cotylized arm, coupled with the fact that the suckers of both the 

 outer rows of the second, third, and fourth arms undergo enlarge- 

 ment, a character exceedingly conspicuous on the second arms at 

 least and in well-preserved material probably on all. 



Good descriptions have already been given by Appellof (1886), 

 Hoyle (1886), Ortmann (1888), and of the anatomy by Wulker (1910). 

 Verrill's types are therefore made the basis of the above notes, with 

 the exception of those portions relating to the d\ of which he had 

 no specimens. However, his specimens do not differ from the various 

 larger females seen by me in any essential particulars except their 

 dimensions. 



This is the commonest Japanese Sepiolid and has been obtained 

 by so many collectors that it must be a species of considerable 

 abundance. Specimens from Formosa do not seem different in any 

 way, nor have I been able to separately identify the large series of 

 individuals from Hong Kong in the Museum of Comparative Zoology. 

 The latter is also the type locality for Pfeffer's Sepiola bursa, and 

 should not specimens in better preservation prove otherwise, there 

 can be little doubt that this name is a complete synonym of E. morsei. 



Genus STOLOTEUTHIS Verrill, 1881. 



Stoloteuthis nipponensis Berry, 1911. PI. V, figs. 1-4. 



Stoloteuthis nipponensis Berry, 1911, p. 39, fig. 

 Sepiolina nipponensis Naef, 1912, p. 248. 



Body small, compact, short, plump, sepioliform, rounded behind. 

 Mantle attached to the head dorsally by a rather narrow commissure 

 I L5 mm.); free below and produced forward beneath the head, its 

 edge sinuous and slightly emarginate in front, so as to expose the 

 extreme tip of the funnel, otherwise entirely hidden. Fins large, 



aicordate, the forward lobe extending from the anterior base of 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



attachment as far as the mantle margin; posterior lobe scarcely 

 developed; nearly median in position, the plane of attachment 

 nearly level with the dorsal surface of the mantle. 



Head very large, as broad as the body, flattened above, excavated 

 beneath. Eyes large with rather large openings; the right eye- 

 lid appears to be free all round, the left eye has only the lower lid 

 free. Funnel rather small, flexed upward so as to lie closely in the 

 excavation formed by the hollowed under surface of the head. A 

 slight curved longitudinal groove with a raised and reflexed edge, 

 situated on either side of the funnel quite far back, articulates with 

 a corresponding ridge on the inner surface of the mantle; the ridge 

 similarly curved, rather heavy, and notably longer than the groove. 

 "Olfactory organ" situated on the same level with the lower eyelid 

 and just behind it. 



Arms stout, thick, flesh}', and rather short, the order of length 

 2, 1, 3, 4, only the ventral arms noticeably shorter than the others; 

 each with two rows of spherical short-pediceled suckers extending 

 for their entire length. Both dorsal arms hectocotylized; squarish, 

 prominently keeled above, unequal, the right slightly the larger; 

 much swollen; suckers very small, even at the base of the arms, 

 whence they gradually diminish in size toward the tip, the two 

 rows very regularly alternating; inner surface of each arm curiously 

 striate with numerous fine transverse corrugations arranged more 

 or less in bands to correspond with the bases of the sucker pedicels. 

 Suckers of the second pair of arms slightly larger, but still quite small, 

 excepting some five pairs along the middle of the arm which are 

 conspicuously larger than the rest; third pair similar in structure 

 to the second pair; ventral arms shorter and more slender than the 

 others, their suckers mainly lost in the specimen examined. The 

 pedicels of all the suckers, especially the enlarged ones, are very 

 brittle and delicate. Openings of suckers very small; horny rings 

 smooth. Arms connected at the extreme base by a poorly developed 

 web or umbrella which is totally lacking between the ventral pair; 

 dorsal arms laterally angled and with a dorsal keel; in the second 

 pair angles and keel become obsolete, but reappear again in the 

 third pair; ventral arms keeled along the outer side. 



Tentacles stout and fleshy ; about as long as the mantle ; the club 

 furnished with a membranous keel, but otherwise not exceeding 

 the stalk in diameter; suckers extremely minute, subequal, irregu- 

 larly arranged in at least 12 (perhaps as many as 16) rows, giving 

 the club a velvety appearance; peduncles slender; the horny rings 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



under the high power seem to be smooth, but the material examined 

 is imperfectly stained. 



Color in life unknown; in alcohol a pale brown, suffused here 

 and there with blackish-purple. Chromatophores numerous, ap- 

 pearing as dark dots. As in the other species of the genus, the 

 ventral surface of the mantle is marked by a large shield-shaped 

 patch, over which the chromatophores are exceedingly fine, numerous, 

 and evenly distributed; the patch is bordered by a rather indistinct 

 slaty-blue margin. 



Beak and radula not examined. Gladius absent. 



Type.— Cat. No. 2.027 (Invertebrate Series) of the Stanford 

 University collections; a male. The type is unique. [S. S. B. 

 No. 32.] 



Type Locality. — Suruga Bay, Japan. 



Measurements. — The chief measurements of the type are as follows: 



mm. 



Total length exclusive of tentacles 38.5 



Medio-dorsal length of mantle 17 



Medio-ventral length of mantle 20 



Width of body 13 



Width across fins 24 



Length of fin, total 13 



Length of fin at plane of attachment 9 



Width of nuchal commissure 4.5 



Width of head 14 



Length of head 9 



Length of dorsal arm 1 1 



Length of second arm 12 



Length of third arm 10.5 



Length of ventral arm (measured from inner base) 10 



Length of tentacle 20 



S. nipponensis appears to be very different from either of the 

 only two species of the genus heretofore described, although sharing 

 with them the curious combination of characters upon which the 

 group was founded. The generic type — S. leucoptera Verrill, from 

 the North Atlantic — differs in the more complete webbing of the 

 arms, their relative shortness, the more anterior position of the fins, 

 hectocotylization (though affecting the same arms), and other 

 details. It is also stated to have the eyelids free all round, but from 

 the appearance of the present specimen this should possibly be 

 regarded as a physiological condition, rather than a permanent 

 feature as in the cegopsid decapods. 



The other Pacific form— S. iris Berry, from the Hawaiian Islands— 

 totally different aspect and stands quite alone in the relative 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



magnitude of its head and fins and the great width of the nuchal 



commissure. If the type is adult, it is also a much smaller species 



than S. nipponensis. 



Naef (1912) has recently made S. nipponensis the type of a new 



genus Sepiolina. 



Sub-family ROSSIIN^. 



Genus ROSSIA Owen, 1834. 

 Rossia sp. 



Dr. Heath has shown me egg capsules containing late embryonic 

 stages of some species of Rossia. The animals were far enough 

 advanced to exhibit clearly the distinctive characters of the genus. 

 They were taken off the northwestern coast of Honshu. 



Genus PROMACHOTEUTHIS Hoyle, 18S5. 



Promachoteuthis megaptera Hoyle, 1885. 



Promachoteuthis megaptera Hoyle, 1885, p. 273, fig. 109. . 



Promachoteuthis megaptera Hoyle, 18856, p. 182. 



Promachoteuthis megaptera Hoyle, 1885c/, p. 284. 



Promachoteuthis megaptera Hoyle, 1886, pp. 19, 120, etc., text fig. 3, pi. 14, 



figs. 10-14. 

 Promachoteuthis megaptera Joubin, 1902, p. 109, fig. 17. 



Distribution. — 1,875 fathoms, southeast of Nosima (type locality 



—Hoyle). 



Family SEPIIDJE Steenstrup, 1861. 



Genus SEPIA Linne, 1758. 



The tremendous development of the genus Sepia, both in species 

 and number of individuals, is the most conspicuous feature of the 

 cephalopod fauna of Japan, as it is likewise in the waters of the 

 Indo-Malayan Archipelago. It is therefore not surprising to find 

 that no less than eighteen names have at one time or another been 

 applied to Japanese forms. These are as follows: 



Sepia aculeata. Sepia peterseni. 



Sepia sinensis. 9 Sepia tullbergi [ — Metasepia]. 



Sepia chrysophtalmos. 10 Sepia tokioensis. 



Sepia myrsus. 11 Sepia hoylei. 



Sepia andreana. Sepia torosa. 



Sepia esculenta. Sepia hercules. 



Sepia elliptica. Sepia longer a. 



Sepia kobiensis. Sepia misakiensis. 



Sepia andreanoides. Sepia appeUofi. 



9 Sepia sinensis d'Orbigny, 1839, united by Gray with S. inermis (van Hasselt), 

 is a name applied by d'Orbigny to a squid described in an article in the Encyclo- 

 pedic japonaisc. Although Tryon follows Gray, it seems doubtful if the species 

 is in any way recognizable. 



10 Sepia chrysophtalmos Tilesius is a minute animal referred by d'Orbigny 

 (1839, p. 324, Loligopsis, pi. 1, figs. 2-4, fide Hoyle) to Loligopsis, but probably 

 impossible of determination. 



11 Sepia myrsus Gray (1849, p. 10S) has been doubtfully listed in the Japanese 

 fauna by Hoyle (1886, p. 219), but I know of no other reference to its actual 

 occurrence there. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



This list is somewhat reduced by the elimination of doubtful 

 names, but even then contains many species which are not always 

 easy to distinguish from one another and sometimes offer problems 

 of great difficulty. The entire group is much in need of a pains- 

 taking and thorough revision at the hands of someone having access 

 to a wealth of carefully preserved material, and when this time 

 comes it is possible that several of the nominal species may be reduced 

 to the rank of synonyms. A good many specimens have been 

 available to the present writer, but the series have usually been too 

 incomplete or, in the case of numerous market specimens, too poorly 

 preserved to render accurate determination easy, much less afford 

 ground for any important generalizations. 



The majority of Japanese species belong to a rather well-defined 

 group of narrow-shelled forms referred to by Wiilker as the "andreana- 

 Gruppe" and here for the sake of convenience recognized as a sub- 

 genus or section, to denominate which the term Doratosepion de 

 Rochebrune has been rehabilitated. An excellent discussion of these 

 forms together with a detailed key to the same has been given by 

 Wiilker (1910, pp. 17-20). 



Sepia aculeata Van Husselt MS., 1834. 



Si pin aculeata Van Hasselt MS., in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1834, p. 287, 



pis. 5, 25 (fide Wiilker). 

 Sepia aculeata d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 296. 

 Sepia aculeata Gray, 1849, p. 105. 

 Sepia aculeata Steenstrup, 1875, p. 473, pi. 2, fig. 4. 

 Sepia aculeata Tryon, 1879, p. 195, pi. 90, fig. 415; pi. 91, figs. 416, 417 



(after d'Orbigny). 

 Acanthosepion Hasselti de Rochebrune, 1884, p. 101. 

 Sepia aculeata Joubin, 1898, p. 25. 

 Sepia aculeata Wiilker, 1910, p. 11. 



A large o 71 specimen of this species having a dorsal mantle length 

 of 21 cm. is entered as Cat. No. 2,045 in the Stanford University 

 Invertebrate Series [S. S. B. No. 3431. It was obtained by Messrs. 

 •Jordan and Snyder at Tsuruga, Echizen. The locular index of the 

 gladius of this specimen is 13.3. 



Distribution. — Near Misaki, Sagami (Wiilker); Tsuruga, Echizen 



(!). Java (d'Orbigny); Indian Ocean (Gray). 



Sepia esculenta Hoyle, 1885. 



Sepia esculenta Hoyle, 1885/', p. 188. 



Sepia esculenta Hoyle, lss."W, p. 291. 



Sepia esculenta Appellof, 1886, p. 28, pi. 3, figs. 1-6. 



Sepia esculenta Hoyle, 1886, pp. 129, etc., pi. 17, figs. 1-5; pi. 18, figs. 1-6. 



Sepia esculenta Ortmann, 1888, pp. 649, 665. 



Sepia esculenta Pilsbry, 1894, p. 144. 



Sepia esculenta Hedley, L906, p. 463. 



?, entered as No. 2,046 of the Invertebrate Series, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



Stanford University collections [S. S. B. No. 360], was obtained at 

 Tokio by Jordan and Snyder. It much resembles the preceding- 

 species, but seems clearly referable to S. esculenta since it "lacks the 

 suckers on the buccal membrane and also the callosity of the inner 

 cone. " Despite these differences, the two forms are very nearly allied. 

 Distribution. — Tokio (Ortmann, !); Yokohama Market (type 

 locality, Hoyle); Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof). Queensland, Australia 

 (Hedley). 



Sepia Hercules Pilsbry, 1894. 



Sepia hercules Pilsbry, 1894, p. 144. 



S( pia hercules Pilsbry, 1895, p. 2, pi. 1, fig. 2. 



Sepia hercules Wiilker, 1910, pp. 11, 22, 21 (mere note). 



Distribution. — Japan (Pilsbry); Loo Choo Islands (Pilsbry). 



Sepia elliptica Hoyle, 1885. 



Sepia elliptica Hoyle, 1885b, p. 189. 



Sepia elliptica Hovle, 1SS.W, p. 293. 



Sepia elliptica Hoyle, 1886, pp. 22, 131, etc., pi. 19, figs. 14-24. 



Sepia elliptica, Wiilker, 1910, pp. 11, 23. 



Distribution. — Near Misaki, Sagami (Wiilker). Arafura Sea, 

 south of Papua (type locality, Hoyle). 



Sepia hoylei Ortmann, 1888. 



Sepia hoylei Ortmann, 1888, p. 650, pi. 22, fig. 5; pi. 23, fig. 1. 

 Sepia elliptica (pars ?) Wiilker, 1910, pp. 11, 22. 



Wiilker has . suggested that this species may be identical with 

 S. elliptica and infers that Ortmann may have been mistaken in the 

 most important diagnostic character — the presence of teeth on the 

 horny rings of the sessile arm suckers. I can, however, confirm 

 Ortmann's observation. Suckers of a specimen from Nagasaki 

 show about 35 small, short, broadly conical teeth, their tips squarish 

 (or broken ?), developed with fair evenness all around. In all other 

 respects also this material agrees well with the description of S. 

 hoylei, but indicates that this form is at best so weakly differentiated 

 from S. elliptica that the conclusion attained by Wiilker may yet 

 prove to be correct. 



A specimen before me from Wakanoura is young and too poorly 

 preserved for certain identification, but the gladius agrees well with 

 the Nagasaki specimens. 



Material Examined. — 



No. 



Sp. Locality. 



■4 Nagasaki, Hizen 



? 1 Wakanoura, Kii 




420 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Distribution.— Maizuru, Tango (Ortmann); Bay of Tokio (Ort- 

 mann); Enoshima, Sagami (Ortmann) ; Wakanoura, Kii (!); Kadsi- 

 yama (Ortmann); Kochi, Toza (Ortmann); Kagoshima, Satsuma 

 Ortmann); Nagasaki, Hizen (!). 



Sepia torosa Ortmann, 1888. 



Sepia torosa Ortmann, 1888, pp. 652, 665, pi. 23, fig. 2. 

 Sepia torosa Ortmann, 1891, p. 674. 



Distribution.— Buy of Tokio (type locality, Ortmann). Amboina 

 (Ortmann) . 



Sepia formosana new species. PI. IX, fig; 7. 



Body wide, stout, compressed, semi-elliptical. Fins nearly one 

 third as wide as the body, widest near the middle and becoming 

 very narrow posteriorly though nearly continuous around the 



Fig. 2. — Sepia formosana [361]: a, camera outline of horny ring from third left 

 arm, much enlarged; b, camera outline of horny ring of large tentacular 

 sucker, same scale as preceding; c, ventral aspect of gladius, natural size. 



extremity of the body. Mantle margin produced into a prominent 

 rounded angle above, but truncate or slightly emarginate below. 



Head broad, flattened. Eyes large, prominent. Funnel broad, 

 truncate at the apex, the latter barely reaching the gap between 

 the ventral arms. 



Anns subequal, somewhat over a third as long as the body; all 

 more or less compressed, the third and fourth pairs conspicuously 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



keeled. Membranes bordering the sucker-bearing area well devel- 

 oped. Suckers minute, cup-shaped, in four rows on all the arms; 

 horny rings smooth. K narrow umbrella connects all the arms at 

 the base. 



Tentacles rather short, stout, the clubs very large. Suckers 

 in about four to five rows; those of the two marginal series very 

 minute, the median ones slightly larger and about six of the latter 

 very much larger than any of the others, the three nearest the mid- 

 dle of the club being largest of all (PI. IX, fig. 7). The latter have 

 smooth horny rings while those of the smaller suckers seem to be 

 very minutely denticulate or crenate. 

 Surface smooth throughout. 



Color dull buff -gray, heavily mottled above and more lightly 

 dotted below with blackish-slate-colored chromatophores. 



Gladius elongate-elliptical in outline, a little over one-third as 

 broad as long; chitinous margin quite wide and narrowly continuous 

 posteriorly across the short stout straight spine. Dorsal surface 

 finely rugose-granulose, the granules disposed in concentric series 

 parallel to the anterior margin; two shallow converging grooves 

 near the centre divide the shell into a narrow median and two wide 

 lateral areas; the calcareous coating over the chitinous layer is very 

 thin dorsally, especially near the edges. Ventral surface excavated 

 posteriorly; the striated area occupies about half the length of the 

 shell, but its extreme posterior portion is obscured by the heavy 

 callous which strengthens the inner cone. The limbs of the callous 

 arise near a point a little more than one-third the length of the shell 

 from the posterior end. Locular index (inclusive of chitinous 

 margin) about 43. 



Type. — Cat. 2,049, Invertebrate Series, Stanford University 

 Collections [S. S. B. No. 361]. 



Type Locality. — Takao, Formosa (Hans Sauter) ; one specimen. 



Measurements. 



mm. 



Tip of body to base of dorsal arms 82 



Median length of mantle (dorsal) 72 



Median length of mantle (ventral) 64 



Width of mantle 37 



Width of fin at widest point 11 



Width of head 31 



Length of funnel 26 



Length of dorsal arm 35 



Length of second arm 31 




422 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



mm. 



Length of third arm 32 



Length of ventral arm * 34 



Length of tentacle 45 



Length of tentacle club 17 



Diameter of largest tentacular suckers 3 



Judging from the single specimen at hand (which, it must be 

 confessed, is not in the best state of preservation), this little species 

 approaches very closely to S. torosa Ortmann, but differs in (1) the 

 decidedly more elongate outline of the body, (2) the smooth horny 

 rings of the sessile arm suckers, and (3) the even more conspicuous 

 enlargement of certain suckers on the tentacle club (decidedly more 

 than "noch einmal so gross wie die iibrigen"). The locular index of 

 the gladius is about the same, unless in calculating it we exclude the 

 chitinous margin, in which case the index is but about 37. The 

 calloused area is, however, relatively greater. 



Other allied forms appear to be S. rouxii d'Orbigny (Indo- 

 Malayan), S. microcotyledon Ortmann (Ceylon), and possibly the 

 Chinese S. sinope Gray, the two latter of which have been discussed 

 by Ortmann (1891, p. 674). S. microcotyledon is the only one 

 described as having .smooth horny rings, but here the structure of 

 the tentacle club is very different. 



Curiously enough, I have been unable to discover any records of 

 cephalopods from Formosa in any of the literature. Although my 

 search may not have been exhaustive, it is probable that the three 

 species here recorded (Sepia formosana, Euprymna morsei, and Sepio- 

 teuthis lessoniana) are the first species to be accredited to the island. 



Sub-genus DORATOSEPION (de Rochebrune, 1884). 

 Sepia (Doratosepion) lorigera walker, 1910. 



Sepia lorigera Wiilker, 1910, p. 12, pi. 2, figs. 3, 4; pi. 3, figs. 11-14. 

 Distribution. — Near Misaki, Sagami (type locality, Wiilker). 



Sepia (Doratosepion) andreana Steenstrup, 1879. 



Sepin Andreana Steenstrup, 1875, pp. 474, 479, pi. 1, figs. 11-19. 



Sepia Andreana Tryon, 1879, p. 193, pi. 89, fig. 408; pi. 90, figs. 409, 410 



(after Steenstrup). 

 Doratosepion andreana de Rochebrune, 1884, p. 96. 

 Sepia andreana Ortman, 1888, pp. 662, 665. 

 Sepia andreana 'Wulker, 1910, pp. 19, 22, 24. 



Distribution. — Japan (Steenstrup) . 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 423 



Sepia (Doratosepion) peterseni Appellof, 1886. 



Sepia Peterseni Appellof, 1886, p. 23, pi. 2, figs. 1-8; pi. 3, fig. 21. 

 Sepia peterseni Ortmann, 1888, pp. 663, 665. 

 Sepia peterseni Wiilker, 1910, pp. 14, 19, 24. 



Distribution. — Tokio Market (Wulker); near Misaki, Sagami 



(Wiilker); Nagasaki, Hizen (type locality, Appellof). 



Sepia (Doratosepion) andreanoides Hoyle, 1885. 



Sepia andreanoides Hoyle, 18856, p. 193. 



Sepia andreanoides Hoyle, 1885d, p. 297. 



Sepia andreanoides Hoyle, 1886, pp. 139, etc., pi. 21, figs. 11-19; pi. 22, fig. 11. 



Sepia andreanoides Ortmann, 1888, pp. 653, 665. 



Sepia andreanoides Wiilker, 1910, pp. 19, 22, 24. 



Distribution. — Bay of Tokio (Ortmann) ; Yokohama Market 



(type locality Hoyle). 



Sepia (Doratosepion) kobiensis Hoyle, 1885. 



Sepia kobiensis Hoyle, 1S856, p. 195. 



Sepia kobiensis Hoyle, 1885rf, p. 300. 



Sepia kobiensis Appellof, 1886, p. 20, pi. 3, fig. 7. 



Sepia kobiensis Hoyle, 1886, p. 142, pi. 18, figs. 7-14. 



Sepia kobiensis Ortmann, 1888, pp. 654, 665. 



Sepia kobiensis Hoyle, 1905, p. 982 (locality record). 



Sepia kobiensis Wiilker, 1910, pp. 16, 20, 24. 



This is one of the most abundant Japanese species, but the con- 

 dition of the material is such that I am in some doubt as to whether 

 all of the following specimens are properly referred to it. 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Collector. deposited. Register. 



13 Nagasaki, Hizen Jordan and L.S.J. U., 349 



Snyder Cat. 2,051 



1 Hakodate, Hizen Jordan and L.S.J.U., 357 



Snyder Cat. 2,050 



4 Hakodate, Hizen Jordan and L.S.J. U., 359 



Snyder Cat. 2,050 



Distribution. — Bay of Tokio (Ortmann) ; Misaki, Sagami (Wiilker) ; 

 Kobe, Settsu (type locality, Hoyle) ; Kadsiyama (Ortmann) ; Kago- 

 shima, Satsuma (Ortmann); Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof, !); Hako- 

 date, Hizen (!); Maizuru, Tango (Ortmann). 



Kolumadulu Atoll, South Pacific (Hoyle). 



Sepia (Doratosepion) tokioensis Ortmann, 1888. 



Sepia tokioensis Ortmann, 1888, pp. 653, 665, pi. 23, fig. 3. 

 Sepia tokioensis Wiilker, 1910, pp. 14, 20. 



Three specimens taken by Jordan and Snyder at Aomori are 

 perhaps to be referred to this species (Invertebrate Series Cat. 

 No. 2,052, Stanford University Collections). 



Distribution. — Aomori, Mutsu (!); Bay of Tokio (type locality, 

 Ortmann); near Misaki, Sagami (Wiilker). 




124 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Sepia (Doratosepion) misakiensis Walker, 1910. 



Sepia misakiensis Wtilker, 1910, p. 15, pi. 1, figs. 5, 6; pi. 3, figs. 19, 22. 

 Distribution.—. 135 meters' depth, off Misaki, Sagami (type locality, 

 Wiilker). 



Sepia (Doratosepion) appellor! Wtilker, 1910. 



Sepia appellofi Wtilker, 1910, p. 14, pi. 1, fig- 8; pi. 3, figs. 15-18. 

 Distribution.— Near Misaki, Sagami (type locality, Wiilker). 



Genus METASEPIA (Hoyle, 1885). 

 Metasepia tullbergi (Appellor, 1886). 



Sepia Tullbrrqi Appellof, 1SSG. p. 20, pi. 2, figs. 7-14. 

 Sepia {Metasepia) tullbergi Ortmann, 1888, pp. 650, 665. 



Distribution.— Kadsiyama (Ortmann) ; Kagoshi'ma, Satsuma (Ort- 

 mann); Nagasaki, Hizen (type locality, Appellof). 



Genus SEPIELLA (Gray, 1849). 

 Sepiella inermis (Van Hasselt MS., 1839) Steenstrup, 1880. 



Sepia inermis Van Hasselt MS., in d'Orbigny and Ferussac, 1839, p. 286, 



pi. 0, bis; pi. 20, figs. 1-9 (fide Hoyle). 

 Sepia inn-mi* d'Orbigny, 1845, p. 29_5, pi. 12, figs. 9, 10. 

 Sepia microcheirus Grav, 1849, p. 107. 



Sepia inermis Tryon, 1879, p. 196, pi. 91, fig. 423; pi. 92, figs. 424, 425. 

 Sepia inermis Steenstrup, 1875, p. 478, pi. 2, fig. 3. 

 Sepiilla inermis Steenstrup, 1880a, pp. 347-356, figs. 1-8. 

 Sepiella inermis Joubin, 1897a, p. 103. 

 Sepiella inermis Joubin, 1898, p. 25. 

 Sepiella inermis Hoyle, 1905, p. 982, fig. 152. 



Distribution.— Japan (Joubin). Timor (Joubin); Batavia, Java 



(d'Orbigny); Male Atoll (Hoyle); Pondicherry (d'Orbigny); Coro- 



mandel (d'Orbigny); Bombay (d'Orbigny). 



Sepiella maindroni de Rochebrune, 18S4. 



Sepiella Main/Irani de Rochebrune, 1884, p. 89. 



Sepiella maindroni (?) Hoyle, 1886, pp. 26, 149, etc., pi. 22, figs. 1-10. 

 Sepiella maindroni Ortmann, 1888, pp. 663, 665 (merely listed). 

 Sepiella maindroni Wtilker, 1910, pp. 20, 23. 



Distribution.- — Tokio Market (Wtilker) ; near Aburatsubo, Sagami 

 (Wiilker); Inland Sea (Hoyle). Pondicherry (type locality, de 

 Rochebrune). 



Division CEgopsida d'Orbigny, 1839. 

 Family GONATIDiE (Hoyle, 1886). 

 Genus GONATUS Gray, 1849. 

 GonatUS fabricii (Lichtenstein, 1818) Steenstrup, 18S0. 



OnychoU uthis Fabricii Lichtenstein, 1818, p. 13 (fide Hoyle). 



Onychoteuthis Kamtschatica Middendorff, 1849, p. 515, pi. 12, figs. 1-6. 



Gonatus Fabricii Steenstrup, 1881a, p. 9, pi. 1. 



Gonatus fabricii Pfeffer, 1900, p. 163. 



Gonatus fabricii Berry, 1912, p. 308, pi. 52, figs. 1-4; pi. 53; pi. 54, figs. 1-4; 



pi. 5',. 



I have already given a full bibliography of this widely distributed 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



species in the paper cited. It has been reported from Shumshn 

 Island, Kurile Group, by Middendorff, and from Japan without 

 more definite locality by Steenstrup. It probably inhabits the 

 whole northern part of the archipelago. 



Family ENOPLOTEUTHID^E Pfeffer, 1900. 

 Sub-family ENOPLOTEUTHIN.E Chun, 1910. 



Genus ABRALIOPSIS Joubin, 1S96. 



Abraliopsis scintillans Berry, 1911. Pis. VII, VIII; pi. IX, figs. 1-6. 



? Abraliopsis sp. Nishikawa 1906a, p. 310 (eggs). 

 Abraliopsis scintillans Berry 1911a, p. 93. 



Animal small, loliginiform ; the mantle thin, cylindrical in front; 

 slender and tapering rapidly to an acute point posteriorly. Fins 

 very large, broadly sagittate, over three-fifths as long as the mantle, 

 their total width at the point of greatest expansion about the same 

 as the length; forward margins arcuate, descending abruptly inward 

 from a nearly right angle anteriorly; angles of lateral margins 

 rounded, a little less than right, well anterior of the middle; hinder 

 margins concave, produced posteriorly to an acute point. Anterior 

 mantle margin slightly produced to form an obtuse median point 

 above and a lateral angle on either side of the funnel. 



Head large, flattened, excavated beneath. Eyes enormous, 

 rounded and frequently much protruding in preserved specimens; 

 ocular apertures large, with a distinct sinus in front. Funnel broad, 

 compressed, little projecting; interior with a pocket-like valve near 

 the tip; funnel organ comprising a large A-shaped median pad, with 

 notably expanded limbs posteriorly situated on the dorsal wall, 

 and two ovate ventro-lateral cushions (PI. IX, fig. 5). 



Each funnel-locking cartilage a large elongate-ovate plate, deeply 

 excavated down the centre, the elevated margin conspicuously 

 reflected, its cavity corresponding with a simple linear groove about 

 8 mm. long on the inner surface of the mantle. 



Arms of moderate length, nearly equal, the order of length in 

 general 4, 3 = 2, 1, though the third pair is sometimes a little longer 

 than the second. In detailed structure the arms differ considerably; 

 for the sake of more accurate observation, those of the left side of 

 one specimen were removed and have furnished the following account. 

 Dorsal arm armed with 12 small stout hooks in two alternating 

 rows, replaced by numerous minute suckers in two series at the 

 extremity; on the outer margin along the whole length, except at the 

 extreme base, is a broad colorless keel, widest below the middle of 

 28 




426 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



the arm; along the ventral margin of the sucker-bearing area is a 

 delicate hyaline swimming membrane supported by a series of 

 fleshy lappets about equal in longitude to the hooks opposite which 

 they lie. Second arm also with 12 hooks (though on the right second 

 arm of another specimen 14 hooks were counted) and otherwise in 

 all essentials like the first. The third arm likewise has 12 hooks 

 succeeded by minute suckers at the tip; it is, however, more robust 

 than any of the others; a very broad conspicuous hyaline mem- 

 branous keel, unadorned with chromatophores on either surface, 

 runs along the outer margin, at its widest point (near the middle) 

 exceeding the diameter of the arm itself; ventral margin furnished 

 with a hyaline swimming membrane as above, but its trabecule are 

 much longer and larger. Ventral arm (PL IX, fig. 4) with 11-12 hooks 

 and no suckers, the whole extremity of the arm being bare except for 

 the curious terminal organs described below; longer and more gradually 

 tapering than the other arms, the hooks slightly smaller; devoid of 

 swimming membranes, but there is a well-developed keel along the 

 outer (dorsal) angle; the tip of each ventral arm is occupied by a 

 longitudinal series of three large, ovoid, heavily pigmented, bead-like 

 organs of a blackish color succeeded distally by one or two minute 

 rudiments of similar structures where the tip of the arm suddenly 

 tapers to a point; these are little protruding and have the super- 

 ficial appearance of being enveloped within the substance of the 

 arm itself, though really enclosed in the integument on the side of 

 the latter; in size the central organ perhaps slightly surpassing 

 the others (PL IX, fig. 1). 



As all the specimens seen are females, the hectocotylized arm 

 and other sexual characters have not been observed. 



Tentacles slender, about the length of the mantle, sides com- 

 pressed and somewhat flattened, inner surface of stalk flattened. 

 Clubs little or not at all expanded, the distal two-thirds armed with 

 four distinct crowded rows of minute suckers, some 74 to 76 in all, 12 

 regularly diminishing in size toward the tip; proximal to these and 

 projecting well out beyond the ventral margin are two very large, 

 elongate, slender, strongly incurved, sharply pointed hooks pro- 

 jecting for some distance from their large fleshy bases; opposite 

 these along the dorsal margin a single series of exceedingly minute 

 -hort-pediceled suckers, usually four in number and apparently 



12 Cf. the figure given by Chun of A. morisii 9 (1910, pi. 8, fig. 3), where but 

 about 40 such suckers are shown occupying a relatively much smaller proportion 

 of the entire club. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



homologous with the most marginal row of the distal suckers; proxi- 

 mal to the hooks and in a line with them on the right tentacle club 

 is usually situated a single minute sucker similar to those just de- 

 scribed. Certain variations occur, as (e.g.) in the club from which 

 the accompanying figure (PI. IX, fig. 6) was drawn; here the small 

 suckers opposite the hooks were apparently wanting (through abra- 

 sion ?) and were supplied in the drawing from another specimen. The 

 general character and extent of these variations are well brought 

 out in the accompanying table of data taken from all the specimens 

 examined and would seem to indicate that where the number of 

 minute suckers is fewer than that above regarded as typical, it may 

 be due to the facility with which such delicate structures may be 

 lost by abrasion. 



No. suckers No. suckers 



No. of large proximal opposite No. suckers No. pads Arrangement 



[Tentacle. hooks in to hooks in to hooks in in fixing in fixing of fixing 



ventral row. ventral row. dorsal row. apparatus, apparatus. apparatus. 



,J Right 2 15 4 4 Compact, 



I Left 2 4 4 4 



9 J Right 2 1 4 4 4 



I Left 2 4 4 



o j Right 



1 Left 2 4 4 Diffuse. 



i f Right 2 4 4 4 Compact. 



(Left 2 3 4 4 Diffuse. 



-(Right 2 1 4( + l?) 4 4 Medium. 



I Left 2 2(+?) 4 4 Compact. 



fi ( Right 2 4 13 3 3 Medium. 



(Left 2 3 3 3 Compact, 



Fixing apparatus well developed and with one exception very 

 constant in comprising four minute suckers and four pads regularly 

 alternating in two rows; sometimes these are relatively distant as 

 in the figure, but often more compactly grouped. . The distal (sucker- 

 bearing) part of the club is furnished with a membranous keel along 

 its dorsal margin (PL IX, fig. 6). 



Buccal membrane eight-pointed, papillose within; its color deep 

 violet, the supporting lappets of a conspicuously paler shade out- 

 wardly. 



Gladius (fig. 3) with broad wings, embracing the slender midrib for 

 quite three-quarters of its length; only slightly subangulate laterally 

 at the point of widest expansion. Keel plainly visible through the 

 dorsal integument as a dark median line. 



13 Here a small sucker is also present between this row and the proximal hook. 




12s 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



Radula not examined. 



Integument with numerous minute photogenic organs, appearing 

 as dark bluish dots having a distinctly paler centre. These are 

 distributed as follows: (1) on the ventral surface of the mantle they 

 are everywhere exceedingly numerous and so evenly distributed 

 that a bilateral arrangement is only apparent after close examina- 

 tion, being even then not at all absolute; definite rows indistin- 

 guishable except for a narrow but distinct and fairly conspicuous 

 area entirely free of photophores and forming a straight longitudinal 

 band down the medio-ventral line with a fairly constant width of 

 scarce more than a millimeter throughout its course; the number 

 of photophores in one of the rows bordering it is from 42 to 45. 

 Laterally, the organs rapidly scatter and diminish in size until they 





•>&:&:&:: 



w 





9 



W 



mm 



■ 



p'4»Y 



# 



Fig. 3. — Abraliopsis scintillans, dorsal aspect of gladius, natural size; [147]. 

 Fig. 4. — Abraliopsis scijitillans, portion of integument from ventral surface of 



mantle seen by reflected light, showing photophores and chromatophores; 



from an unstained mount in balsam; greatly enlarged; [147]. 



are only with difficulty to be made out at all. However, I have been 

 unable to find that they extend very much past the level of the eyes. 



2. On the ventral aspect of the funnel the photogenic organs 

 are similar in character to those of the mantle, but are fewer in 

 number and therefore appear more symmetrically disposed. They 



! ranked in about ten poorly defined longitudinal rows, variously 

 distant and containing 3-4 organs each, but the arrangement of 

 two lateral halves is alike and here again they are separated 

 by a clear space down the middle. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



3. On the ventral surface of the head the photophores have 

 evidently a primary arrangement in longitudinal series, but this 

 has become so modified by the interpolation of various shorter 

 series and isolated organs that the exact number of rows is difficult 

 to determine. Most apparent are (a) the usual median row which 

 bifurcates at the apex of the funnel groove and at the base of the 

 ventral arms, along which latter its two branches continue for the 

 proximal two-thirds of their length; (6) a long lateral series beginning 

 on the ventral fold of the olfactory crest which curves inward on 

 the head and also continues out the ventral arms to their extremities; 

 (c) a very distinct circlet of more ovoid organs surrounding the ocular 

 aperture (PL IX, fig. 2). 



4. The ventral arms as just noted have two rows of photophores 

 upon the arm itself, and in addition a distinct row of 7-8 small 

 very distant organs along the outer margin of the keel. The third 

 arms have but a single row of 4-5 organs along their ventral aspect. 

 On the remaining arms, on the tentacles, and on the dorsal surface 

 of the head no luminous organs were observed. 



In addition to the photogenic organs of the general integument 

 and the curious pigmented structures already described at the tips 

 of the ventral arms, there is a third very distinct type of photophore 

 in the form of a series of small circular bead-like bodies, brownish- 

 orange in color, on the ventral periphery of the eyeball; these are 

 five in number, the three central ones smallest and interspaced from 

 one another about a millimeter; the two terminal ones are each distant 

 about 1| mm. from the neighboring organ and their diameter is 

 about twice as great (i.e., rather less than a millimeter) (PL IX, fig. 3). 

 These organs, though situated on the eyeball itself, are usually 

 visible even when the latter is closely retracted, because of a small 

 ovate hyaline non-pigmented area in that portion of the ventral 

 integument which normally covers them. When, as sometimes 

 occurs, this area is iridescent and a little distended, it becomes quite 

 conspicuous. Its purpose is obviously to allow the rays of light 

 from these organs to pass through the outer integument with as 

 little obstruction as possible. 



Color in life not observed; in alcoholic specimens the ground 

 color is a pale brownish-buff, dotted over nearly the entire surface 

 with small and very beautiful reddish-brown chromatophores, 

 which are especially numerous and darkest just above the keel of 

 the gladius, but thickly scattered, even on the ventral surface where 

 they are very conspicuous among the bluish photophores. On 




430 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[July, 



the under sides of the fins, the hyaline area above described, the 

 inner surfaces of the arms, and the keels of the three dorsal pairs 

 the skin is nearly or entirely free of chromatophores. Because 

 appearing with unusual constancy, a single large chromatophore, 

 surrounded by a circlet of smaller ones and situated on the head 

 just posterior to the crotch between the dorsal arms, is also probably 

 worthy of mention. The lens of the eye is large, spherical, and 

 exquisitely pearly. 



Measurements. 



Author's register.. 



147 



279 



Specimen number. 



Length, total 



Length, exclusive of tentacles 



Length of mantle, dorsal 



Width of mantle 



Width across fins 



Length of fins, total 



Length of fins along plane of 



attachment 



Width across head 



Width between eyes 



Length of head, dorsal 



Length of right dorsal arm 



Length of left dorsal arm 



Length of right second arm 



Length of left second arm 



Length of right third arm 



Length of left third arm 



Length of right ventral arm 



Length of left ventral arm 



Length of right tentacle 



Length of left tentacle 



Length of tentacle club 



Length of funnel... 



1 

 mm. 



132 

 95 

 59 

 16 

 38 

 39 



33. 

 17 



8 

 12 

 19 

 21 

 22 

 22 

 23 

 24 

 26 

 27 

 59 

 65 



7 



o 



9 



Type.— Cat. No. 2,053. Invertebrate Series, Stanford University 

 collections [S. S. B. No. 147]; a female. 



Tijpe Locality. —Japan, probably off Misaki (Alan Owston ?); 

 three 9 specimens. 



Material Examined.— -In addition to the three cotypes, three 



other specimens, taken at Misaki by Ishikawa [S. S. B. No. 279], 



been examined. All six are females. In the tables they have 



imbered, respectively, 1-3 and 4-6, and the specimens denoted 



as Nos. 3 and 5 have been destroyed by dissection. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



Remarks. — This beautiful little squid was originally described 

 from three individuals in the Stanford University collections thought 

 to be from Japan, but in reality of quite uncertain origin. This 

 habitat was, however, confirmed in a most interesting manner, 

 almost immediately upon the preparation of the original diagnosis, 

 by the receipt through the kindness of Dr. Harold Heath of three 

 "squids with luminous dots," sent to him from Japan by Dr. Ijima. 

 These were the specimens mentioned above from Misaki and proved 

 to be identical in every essential feature with the types, entirely 

 confirming in every particular the characters which I had depended 

 upon as diagnostic. Both the Stanford specimens and those sent 

 by Dr. Ijima are beautifully preserved, are nearly of the same size, 

 and apparently fully grown. One of the largest, if not the largest 

 species of the genus, A. scintillans, is differentiated from the pre- 

 viously described forms in the following apparently constant 

 characters : 



1. The great number of photophores on the ventral surface and 

 the comparative obscurity of their bilateral arrangement as well 

 as the absence of distinct longitudinal series. 



2. The presence of only one row of hooks (the ventral) on the 

 tentacle club, with but two elements present even here. 



3. The replacement of the dorsal row of hooks present in other 

 species by a single or slightly zigzag series of minute suckers. 



4. The large number of suckers in the four distal rows on the 

 club and the fact that these occupy nearly two-thirds of the total 

 length. 



5. The usual presence of four suckers and four pads in the fixing 

 apparatus. 



6. The detailed structure of the sessile arms which appears to 

 differ constantly from the careful account given by Hoyle (1904, 

 p. 37) in regard to A. hoy lei. 



With these features in mind, it is by no means difficult to separate 

 A. scintillans from either the Atlantic A. pfefferi or the A. hoylei 

 of the South and East Pacific, 14 with both of which it is, however, 

 closely allied. It is to be expected that any structure so complex 



14 Chun, in a recent monograph (1910, p. 78), unites both of these forms 

 under the earliest name applied to a member of the genus, A. morisii Verany, 

 1837, and gives a large number of exquisitely beautiful figures of a series sup- 

 posed to be identical. The evidence offered is certainly suggestive, but does not 

 appear to the present writer to be conclusive proof that we have but a single 

 cosmopolitan species of Abraliopsis, however closely related otherwise the various 

 forms may be. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



as the armature of the tentacle club should be subject to a consid- 

 erable degree of variation among its constituent elements, so that 

 its great constancy in the present series is really quite surprising 

 and indicates that it may prove especially important in distinguishing 

 species. The discovery of males of this species should throw an 

 interesting light upon the entire subject. 



In gross aspect and general outline of the body there is great 

 variation, depending upon the conditions of preservation. The 

 greatest individualities observed are in the form of the mantle. 

 Sometimes the outline tapers smoothly and regularly from the 

 anterior margin, or there may be a pronounced bulging near the 

 middle, or sometimes a general inflation of the whole. 



Genus THELIDIOTEUTHIS Pfeffer, 1900. 



Thelidioteuthis alessandrinii (Verany, 1851) Chun, 1910. 



Loligo Alessandrinii Verany, 1851, p. 99, pi. 35, figs, f, g, h (fide Chun). 

 Enoploteuthis polyonyx Troschel, 1857, p. 67, pi. 4, fig. 9. 

 Thelidioteuthis polyonyx Pfeffer, 1900, p. 167. 

 Thelidioteuthis Alessandrinii Chun, 1910, p. 104, pi. 7, figs. 16, 17. 



A specimen in the possession of the writer from the Gulf of Kago- 

 shima appears to be a young individual of this widely distributed 

 species, though it is possible that the adult might show differences 

 worthy of separate recognition. [S. S. B. No. 274.] 



Distribution. — Gulf of Kagoshima (!). Mediterranean; South 

 Atlantic (Pfeffer); Indian Ocean (Chun); Society Islands (Pfeffer). 



Family OCTOPODOTEUTHID^ new name. 

 ( = Veranyidoe Chun, 1910.) 



Genus 0CT0P0D0TEUTHIS Riippell, 1844 (em.). 

 Octopodoteuthis sp. 



Octopodoteuthis near O. sicula Chun, 1910, p. 139. 



In the work cited Chun mentions a specimen of this genus taken 

 by Doflein in Sagami Bay. 



Family HISTIOTEUTHID^J Verrill, 1881. 



Genus CALLITEUTHIS Verrill, 1S80. 



Calliteuthis ocellata (Owen, 1881) Verrill, 1881. 



Loligopsis ocellata Owen, 1881, p. 139, pi. 26, figs. 3-8; pi. 27. 

 CalliU uthis ocellata Verrill, 1881, p. 402. 

 Calliteuthis ocellata Verrill, 1882, p. 412 [202]. 



Calliteuthis reversa Hoyle, 1886, p. 183, pi. 33, figs. 12-15 (not of Verrill). 

 Calliteuthis reversa (pars) Pfeffer, 1900, p. 170. 

 Calliteuthis reversa (pars) Chun, 1906, p. 744. 



Calliteuthis ocellata Chun, 1910, pp. 149, 170, etc., Texttafel 1, figs. 1,2; 

 text figs. 22, 23; pi. 20, figs. 7-9. 



rue Calliteuthis reversa Verrill is not yet known to be a member 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



of the Japanese fauna. Assuming the correctness of the recent 

 careful synopsis of the genus given by Chun (1910), the various 

 references to it in the literature cited have certainly been based upon 

 misidentifications. 



Distribution. — Sagami Bay (Chun); 345 fathoms, off Ino Sima 

 Island (Hoyle); China Sea (type locality, Owen). 



Family ARCHITEUTHID^ Pfeffer, 1900. 



Genus ARCHITEUTHUS Steenstrup, 1856. 

 Architeuthus martensii (Hilgendorf, 1880) Steenstrup, 1882. 



Megateuthis Martensii Hilgendorf, 1S80, p. 65. 



Architeuthus Martensii Steenstrup, 1882, p. 157 [15]. 



Architcuthis, sp. Mitsukuri and Ikeda, 1895, pp. 39-50, 1 pi. (fide Hoyle). 



Distribution. — Japan (Hilgendorf) . 



Family OMMASTRBPHID^ Gill, 1871. 



Genus OMMASTREPHES d'Orbigny, 1835. 



Ommastrephes sloanii Gray, 1849. PI. VI, fig. 4. 



Ommastrephes Sloanii Gray, 1849, p. 61. 



Ommastrephes Sloanii Tryon, 1S79, p. 180 (after Gray). 



Todarodes pacificus Steenstrup, 1880, pp. 83, 90, etc. (fide Hoyle). 



(?) Sloanei Steenstrup, 1880, p. 98. 



Ommastrephes sloanei Verrill, 1881, p. 386 (brief note). 



Ommastrephes pacificus Appellof, 1886, p. 35, pi. 3, figs. 8-10. 



Todarodes pacificus Hoyle, 1886, pp. 34, 163, 219, pi. 28, figs. 1-5. 



Todarodes pacificus Ortmann, 1888, pp. 664, 6135 (merely listed). 



? Ommastrephes gouldi M'Coy, 1SSS. 



? Ommastrephes gouldi Brazier, 1892, p. 17 (locality record). 



Todarodes pacificus Joubin, 1897a, p. 103. 



not ? Ommastrephes sloanei Schauinsland, 1899, p. 92 (mere note). 



Ommatostrephes sagittatus sloanei Pfeffer, 1900, p. 179. 



[Pfeffer also unites with this species the O. insignis of Gould, 1852, 

 ascribed to the Fiji Islands and the Antarctic region.] 



Body elongate, cylindric, tapering posteriorly to a sharp point 

 between the fins. Mantle margin entire above and but little emar- 

 ginate below. Fins broadly sagittate, in the adult a little more 

 than two-fifths as long as the mantle. . Mantle connectives as usual 

 in the group. 



Head rather small, squarish, but much compressed, considerably 

 narrower than the widest expansion of the body; bounded pos- 

 teriorly by a transverse thickened ridge, continuous with the three 

 oblique ear-like folds behind each eye. Eyes large, the wide lid 

 openings with a narrow incision or sinus in front. Funnel groove 

 with a distinct foveola in its anterior portion, comprising a horseshoe- 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



shaped fold of membrane embracing between its arms a series of 

 8-10 shorter and more fleshy longitudinal folds. 



Arm- moderate, squarish, fairly attenuate, averaging about half 

 as long as the mantle; unequal, the order of length almost always 

 2, 3, 1. 4, although there are occasionally slight variations from this 

 formula. Umbrella lacking, but the outer angles of all the arms 

 equipped with a firm fleshy keel especially developed on the basal 

 half of the third pair, and a delicate trabeculated swimming mem- 

 brane, which is least evident on the ventral arms and widest on the ven- 

 tral margin of the third pair. Suckers decidedly small (PL VI, fig. 4) ; 

 rather distantly placed at the base in two regularly alternating rows, 

 becoming more crowded at the tip; the interspacing between the rows 

 very variable, apparently dependent mainly upon the degree of 

 compression of the arms; suckers of the lateral arms slightly, but 

 not at all conspicuously larger than those of the dorsal and ventral 

 pairs; on an arm of the second pair some 56 to 60 suckers can readily 

 be counted without using a lens. Horny rings well developed, 

 their lower margins ordinarily smooth, but with 9 to 12 stout acute 

 teeth, accompanied by occasional intervening denticles on the upper 

 edge; these teeth are largest at the apex, but the median one is not 

 particularly differentiated in this respect more than its neighbors. 



Tentacles stout, moderate; the club slightly expanded, its sucker- 

 bearing portion including about 60-65% of the total length in the 

 adult (55-71%, according to Pfeffer); in general structure entirely 

 similar to 0. hawaiiensis, 15 the horny rings of the large median 

 suckers armed with about 17 rather short, stout, acute, subequal 

 teeth, occurring in regular alternation with an equal number of very 

 low squarish plates, both teeth and plates being more regular, though 

 somewhat more weakly developed than in 0. hawaiiensis. A small 

 sucker of the marginal rows shows about 18 acute teeth, larger and 

 longer on the upper margin where they are accompanied by a few 

 alternating denticles. 



In young specimens, such as No. 273, the body appears more 

 slender and the fins much shorter, both in proportion to the mantle 

 length and their own width. 



The* chief measurements of eight specimens are given in the 

 following table: 



<-ephe$ hawaiiensis new species: A Hawaiian form closely allied 

 pacificus), but with much larger and fewer suckers on the 

 isile arms of the adult and with the central upper tooth of the hornv rings 

 mctly larger than any of the others. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



435 



Measurements. 



Author's register number [286] 



mm. 



Length, total 393 



Length, exclusive of tentacles 310 



Length of mantle, dorsal 168 



Width of mantle, median 50 16 



Width across fins Ill 



Length of fins, total 78 



Length of fins along plane of attach- 

 ment 72 



Length of head 37 



Width of head 33 



Length of right dorsal arm :. 101 



Length of right second arm 113 



Length of right third arm Ill 



Length of right ventral arm 90 



Length of right tentacle, total 205 



Length of right tentacle, sucker-bear- 

 ing portion 125 



Length of left tentacle, total 202 



Length of left tentacle, sucker-bear- 

 ing portion 123 



Author's register number [257] 



mm. 



Length, total 301 



Length, exclusive of tentacles 253 



Length of mantle, dorsal 155 



Width of mantle, median 31 



Width across fins 81 



Length of fins, total 64 



Length of fins along plane of attach- 

 ment 59 



Length of head 21 



Width of head 21 



Length of right dorsal arm 66 



Length of right second arm 78 



Length of right third arm 75 



Length of riglmfc ventral arm 60 



Length of right tentacle, total 126 



Length of right tentacle, sucker-bear- 

 ing portion 83 



Length of left tentacle, total 123 



Length of left tentacle, sucker-bear- 

 ing portion 81 



[258] 

 mm. 



332 



263 



164 

 28 

 80 

 66* 



62 

 23 

 22 

 67 

 74 

 68 

 63 

 135 



81 

 152 



90 



[257] 

 mm. 



292 

 256 

 161 



42 16 



84 

 69 



63 

 22 



31 16 

 66 

 77 

 77 

 66 

 111 



71 

 111 



71 



[257] 

 mm. 



329 

 277 



159 



42 i6 



95 



67 



58 

 24 

 26 

 79 

 97 

 91 

 71 

 149 



91 

 138 



86 



[257] 

 mm. 



279 



250 



156 



34 



77 

 66 



59 

 25 

 22 

 62 

 75 

 70 

 60 

 106 



67 

 106 



68 



[257] 

 mm. 



316 



279 



170 



35 



87 



67 



62 

 24 

 32 



72 

 85 

 85 

 67 

 118 



74 



120 



78 



[273] 

 mm. 



83 



73 



45 



10 16 



19 



12 



11. 

 8 

 10 

 17 

 19 

 18 

 14 

 31 



17 

 27 



14 



Badly compressed dorso-ventrally. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



T U pc.—Oi sloanii, in the British Museum; of pacificus, in the 

 Copenhagen Museum. 



Type Locality.— Of sloanii, Waitemata, New Zealand (Gray); 

 of pacificus, Hakodate, Japan (Steenstrup). 



Distribution.— Tomakomai, Iburi (!); Todohokke, Oshima (Wlil- 

 ker); Hakodate, Oshima (Steenstrup, !) ; Tokio(!); Misaki, Sagami 

 (Wiilker, !); Aburatsubo, Sagami (Wiilker) ; Inland Sea (Hoyle) ; 

 Nagasaki, Hizen (Appellof). Vladivostok (Joubin); Indian Ocean 

 (Gray); Victorian Water, South Australia (Brazier, as 0. gouldi); 

 Tasmania (Verrill); Waitemata, New Zealand (Gray). 



Material Examined. — 



No. Where Author's 



Sp. Locality. Collectors. deposited. Register. 



1 Tomakomai, Iburi J.O.Snyder L.S.J.U., 273 



Cat. 2,057 



2 Hakodate, Oshima J.O.Snyder L.S.J.U., 258 



Cat. 2,056 



9 Hakodate, Oshima Jordan and L.S.J.U., 257 



Snyder Cat. 2,055 



1 Tokio Jordan and L.S.J.U., 256 



Snyder Cat. 2,058 



1 Misaki, Sagami Jordan and L.S.J.U., 259 



Snyder Cat, 2,059 



Under the name Ommastrephes Sloanii, J. E. Gray in 1849 pub- 

 lished the description of a species of squid from New Zealand belong- 

 ing to the typical group of the genus and having probable relationship 

 with 0. sagittatus. 11 Subsequently Steenstrup (1880) erected a new 

 species of his genus Todarodes ( = Ommastrephes s. s.) for the recep- 

 tion of an apparently very similar cephalopod in the Copenhagen 

 Museum from Hakodate, his description being supplemented by 

 Hoyle with further interesting notes in the Challenger Report (1886) 

 and a very excellent series of figures which fix the identity of the 



17 " 



Ommastrephes Sloanii. 



"Body cylindrical, rather tapering behind. Fin rhombic, rather more than 



one-third the length of the body. Sessile arms compressed; cups equal, oblique, 



in two rows; rings black, higher side with regular acute teeth, lower smooth; 



hird pair acutely finned, with a narrow, rayed, membrane on the inner edge of 



the ventral side. Tentacular arms slightly keeled externally, base half-naked; 



cups of lower pari small, in two rows, of middle four rows, "the seventh pair of 



central series largest ; rings with distant teeth all round; of the lateral series 



. longly peduncled, and very oblique; of the apical portion small, in three 



or four rows, the smallest one nearly sessile." (Gray, 1S49, p. 61.) 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



form intended beyond any manner of doubt. It is interesting to 

 observe that Steenstrup himself affirms entire ignorance of the true 

 generic position of 0. sloanii, although Hoyle in the work cited 

 referred it doubtfully to Todarodes. More recently Pfeffer (1900) 

 has come to the conclusion that the two forms are identical and has, 

 moreover, reduced them to subspecific rank under the Atlantic 

 O. sagittatus. If these premises are correct, the rejection of the name 

 pacificus -m favor of the prior sloanii follows as a matter of course, 

 an arrangement which has since been followed by Hoyle (1909) and 

 by Wiilker (1910), and is therefore adopted in this paper. To the 

 present writer, however, this interpretation does not appear by any 

 means conclusive. In the first place, the description of Gray when 

 judged by modern standards is at best incomplete, and an examina- 

 tion of his type or even of further South Pacific material may yet 

 reveal that he overlooked characters of sufficient importance to 

 delimit this race from the Japanese form as completely as the latter 

 now appears to be separated from its Mid-Pacific (Hawaiian) con- 

 geners. In the same connection another small item of evidence 

 should not be overlooked: so careful an observer as Verrill (1881, 

 p. 386) relates that a Tasmanian specimen referred by him to 0. 

 sloanii lacks the foveola at the apex of the funnel groove so charac- 

 teristic of 0. sagittatus, pacificus, and hawaiiensis. In any case, the 

 specimens now before me are most certainly identical with the true 

 0. pacificus as described and figured by Steenstrup and Hoyle, 

 whether the latter eventually prove distinct from sloanii or not. 



A key to the various known races of typical Ommastvephes, con- 

 structed on the same general plan as that utilized by Pfeffer, is 

 accordingly offered as follows : 



Sucker-bearing portion of the tentacle comprising more than f of the 



total length (Atlantic species) sagittatus. 



Sucker-bearing portion of the tentacle comprising distinctly less than 



f of the total length (Pacific species) 1 



f Median upper tooth of the horny rings of the suckers on the 



, sessile arms obviously the largest hawaiiensis. 



' No single tooth of the horny rings noticeably larger than the 

 others sloanii 



Most recent authors follow Pfeffer in regarding sloanii as a sub- 

 species of sagittatus, but despite the small differences I cannot see 

 that anything is to be gained by the use of the trinomial, especially 

 since truly intergrading forms are not yet known to occur. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Genus SYMPLECTOTEUTHIS Pfeffer, 1900. 

 Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis (Lesson, 1830) Pfeffer, 1900. 



Loligo oualaniensis Lesson, 1830, p. 240, pi. 1, fig. 2. 



iplectoteuthis oualaniensis Pfeffer, 1900, p. 180. 

 Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Wiilker, 1910, p. 21 (merely noted). 



Distribution. — Near Misaki, Sagami (Wiilker). Laccadive Islands 

 (Hoyle) ; Vanikoro (Quoy and Gaimard) ; Caroline Islands (Lesson) ; 

 Torres Straits, Great Barrier Reef, and Nickol Bay, Australia (Bra- 

 zier); Laysan Island (Schauinsland) ; Cocos Islands (Hoyle). 



Family THYSANOTEUTHIDiE Keferstein, 1866. 

 Genus THYSANOTEUTHIS Troschel, 1857. 



Thysanoteuthis rhombus Troschel, 1857. 



Thysanoteuthis rhombus Troschel, 1857, p. 70, pi. 4, fig. 12; pi. 5, figs. 1-4. 

 Thysanoteuthis rhombus Jatta, 1896, p. 56, pi. 9, figs. 1-13. 

 Thysanoteuthis rhombus Pfeffer, 1900, p. 182. 



An Atlantic and Mediterranean species quoted from Japan without 



more definite locality on the authority of Pfeffer. 



Family CHIROTEUTHID^J Gray, 1849. 



Sub-family CHIROTEUTHIN^E Chun, 1908. 



Genus CHIROTEUTHIS d'Orbigny, 1839. 



Chiroteuthis macrosoma Goodrich, 1896. 



Chiroteuthis macrosoma Goodrich, 1896, p. 12, pi. 3, figs. 51-57. 

 Chiroteuthis macrosoma Pfeffer, 1900, pp. 185, 186. 

 Cheiroteuthis macrosotna Nishikawa, 1906, pp. 109-113, pi. 

 Chiroteuthis macrosoma Chun, 1910, p. 240. 



Distribution. — Japan (Nishikawa). Off the Kistna Delta (type 

 locality, Goodrich). 



Sub-genus CHIROTHAUMA Chun, 1910. 



Chiroteuthis (Chirothauma) imperator Chun, 1908. 



Chiroteuthis imperator Chun, 1908, p. 88. 



Chiroteuthis (Chirothauma) imperator Chun, 1910, pp. 240, 241; texttafel 



2; pi. 38; pi. 39, figs. 1-10; pi. 40, figs. 2-5, 7; pi. 41; pi. 42, figs. 1-4; 



pi. 43; pi. 44, figs. 3, 6-16. 



Distribution. — Sagami Bay (Chun). Off Nias, Sumatra (type 

 locality, Chun). 



Family CRANCHIIDiE Gray, 1SJ9. 



Genus LI0CRANCHIA Pfeffer, 1884. 

 Liocranohia sp. 



A single very immature individual of an undetermined Liocranchia 

 from Japan is in the author's collection [S. S. B. No. 385]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Order TETRABRANCHIATA Owen, 1832. 

 Sub-order NAUTILOIDEA. 

 Family NAUTILIDJE Owen, 1S36T 



Genus NAUTILUS Linn6, 1758. 

 Nautilus pompilius Linne, 1758. 



Nautilus Pompilius Linne, 1758, p. 709, Xos. 283, 233. 

 Nautilus Pompilius Lischke, 1869, p. 29 (mere note). 

 Nautilus Pompilius Dunker, 1882, p. 1 (mere note). 

 Nautilus sp. Dean, 1901, p. 819. 



Distribution. — Japan (Dunker); near Misaki, Sagami (Dean); 

 Loo Choo Islands (Lischke). Indo-Malayan region. 



Bibliography. 



The following list of references is thought to include a practically" 

 complete bibliography of the subject, but a few relevant titles have 

 doubtless been omitted either through inadvertence or because they 

 have escaped the observation of the writer. Titles included in 

 brackets have been inaccessible and are quoted on the authority 

 of other authors. 



Adams, Arthur, and Reeve, Lovell. 1S50. The Zoology of the Vovage of 



H. M. S. "Samarang," etc. Mollusca. Part I. London, 1850. 



Appellof, A. 18S6. Japanska Cephalopoder. K. Svensk. Vetensk. Akad. 



Handl, vol. 21, pp. 1-40, pis. 1-3. 

 1898. Cephalopoden von Ternate. Ergebn. zool. Forsch. Molukken 



Borneo, etc. Dr. Willy Kiikenthal. Part II, vol. 2, pp. 561-637, pis. 



32-34. Frankfurt-a-M., 1898. 

 Berry, S. S. 1909. Diagnoses of new Cephalopods from the Hawaiian Islands. 



Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., vol. 37, pp. 407-419, with 9 text figures, December, 



1909. 

 1911. A new Sepiolid from Japan. Zool. Anzeiger, vol. 37, pp. 39-41, 



1 figure, January, 1911. 



1911a. Note on a new Abraliopsis from Japan. Nautilus, vol. 25, 



pp. 93-94, December, 1911. 



1912. A Review of the Cephalopods of Western North America. Bull. 



U. S. Bureau of Fisheries, vol. 30, pp. 269-336, pis. 32-56, text figs. 1-18, 



July, 1912. 

 Bosc, L. A. G. [1792. Observation sur la Sepia rugosa. Acles Soc. Hist. 



Nat. Paris, vol. 1, p. 24, pi. 5.] 

 Brazier, John. 1892. Catalogue of the Marine Shells of Australia and Tas- 

 mania. Part I, Cephalopoda. Australian Mus. Cat., Svdnev, 15, pp. 



1-19, 1 pi. 

 Brock, J. 1882. Zur Anatomie und Systematik der Cephalopoden. Zeitschr. 



fur wissensch. Zool., vol. 36, pp. 543-610, pis. 34-37. 



1887. Indische Cephalopoden. Zool. Jahrb., vol. 2, pp. 591-614, pi. 



Chun, Carl. 1906. Ueber die Geschlechtsverhaltnisse der Cephalopoden. Zool. 



Anzeiger, vol. 29, pp. 743-753, March, 1906. 



1908. Ueber Cephalopoden der deutschen Tief see-Expedition. Zool. 



Anzeiger, vol. 33, pp. 86-89, May, 190S. 



1910. Die Cephalopoden. 1. Teil: CEgopsida. Wiss. Ergebn. deutsch. 



Tiefsee-Exped. Valdivia, vol. 18, pp. 1-402, with 2 pis. and 32 figs, in text 

 and an Atlas of 61 pis. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July. 



Dall, William H. 1908. Reports on the dredging operations off the West 

 Coasl of Central America .... carried on by the .... "Albatross" 

 XXXVII. Reports on the Scientific Results of the Expedition to 

 the Eastern Tropical Pacific .... by the .... "Albatross" .... 

 XIV. The Momisca and the Brachiopoda. Bull. Mus. Comp. ZooL, vol. 

 13, pp. 205-487, pis. 1-22, October, 1908. 

 Dean, Basheord. 1901. Notes on Living Nautilus. Amer. Naturalist, vol. 



35, pp. 819-837, 15 figs, in text. 

 Delle Chi.uk, Stefano. [1828-1830. Memorie Bulla struttura e Notomia 



degli aniinali senza vertebre del Regno di Napoli. Napoli, 1828-30.] 

 Dillwyn, L. W. 1817. A descriptive Catalogue of Recent Shells arranged 

 according to the' Linnsean Method, with particular attention to the Syn- 

 onymy. 2 vols., 8vo, London, 1817. 

 Doplein, Franz. 1908. Ostasienfahrt, Erlebnisse und Beobachtungen eines 

 Naturforschers in China, Japan und Ceylon. 511 pp., profusely illustrated, 

 Leipzig and Berlin, 1906. 

 Dollo, Louis. 1012. Les Cephalopodes adaptes a la Vie Nectique Secondaire 

 et a la Vie Benthique Tertiaire. Zoolog. Jahrb., Suppl. XV, 1. Bd., pp. 

 105-140, pi. 3. 

 Dunker, G. 1882. Index Molluscorum Maris Japonici. 



Fischer, P. 1882. Manuel de Conchyliologie et de paleontologie conchyli- 

 ologique ou histoire naturelle des mollusques vivants et fossiles. Pp. 

 i-xxiv, 1-1369, 1 1.5S figs, in text, 23 pis., large 8vo, Paris, 1880-1887. 

 Gabb, W. M. 1862. Description of two new species of Cephalopodes in the 

 Museum of the California Academv of Natural Sciences. Proc. Calif. 

 Acad. Nat. Sri., vol. 2, p. 170-172. 

 < iooDRicH, E. S. 1896. Report on a collection of Cephalopods from the Cal- 

 cutta Museum. Trans. Linnean Soc. London (2, Zool.), vol. 7, part 1, 

 pp. 1-24, pis. 1-5, December, 1896. 

 Gould, Augustus A. 1852. United States Exploring Expedition, etc., under 

 the command of Charles Wilkes. Vol. XII — Mollusca and Shells. 4to, 

 Philadelphia, 1852. 

 ( rRAY, J. E. 1849. Catalogue of the Mollusca in the Collection of the British 

 Museum. Part I. Cephalopoda Antepedia. Small 8vo, pp. i-viii, 1-164, 

 London, 1849. 

 Hedley, Charles. 1906*. The Mollusca of Mast Head Reef, Capricorn 

 Group, Queensland. Part I. Proc. Linnean Soc. New South Wales, vol. 

 31, pp. 453-479, pi. 

 Hilgendorf, F. M. 1880. Einen riesigen Dintenfisch aus Japan. Sitzb. 



Gesellsch. Nat. Freunde, Berlin, 1880, pp. 65-67. 

 Hirase, Y. 1907. Catalogue of Marine Shells of Japan, to be had of Y. Hirase. 



49 pp., pis. 1-3, 8vo, privately printed, Kyoto, 1907. 

 Hoyle, William E. 1885. Brief Notice of the "Challenger" Cephalopoda. 

 Rep. Sci. Res. Voy. "Challenger," Narrative, vol. 1, pp. 269-274 [1-7], 

 figs. 106-109. 



1885a. Diagnoses of new species of Cephalopoda collected during the 

 cruise of H. M. S. "Challenger." Part I. The Octopoda. Ann, Mag. 

 Nat. Hist., (5), vol. 15, pp. 222-236, March, 1885. 



18856. Diagnoses of new species of Cephalopoda collected during the 

 cruise of H. M. S. "Challenger." Part II. The Decapoda. Ann. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist. (5), vol. 16, pp. 181-203, September, 1885. 



188oc. Preliminary report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. 

 Challenger." Part I. The Octopoda. Proc. Roy. Soc, Edinburgh, vol. 

 13, pp. 94-114, cuts, August, 1885. 



1885d. Preliminary report on the Cephalopoda collected bv H. M. S. 

 Challenger." Part II. The Decapoda. Proc. Roy. Soc/ Edinburgh, 

 vol. 13, pi>. 281-310, cuts, 1885. 



1886. Report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. "Challenger" 

 ■luring the years 1873-76. Rep. Sci. Rj?s. Voy. "Challenger," vol. 16, 

 part 44, pp. i-vi, 1-240, pis. 1-33, 1886. 



Catalogue of Recent Cephalopoda. Proc. Roij. Phys. Soc. 

 Edinburgh, 1886, pp. 205-267 [1-63]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



1897. A Catalogue of Recent Cephalopoda. Supplement, 1887-96. 



Proc. Roy. Phys. Soc. Edinburgh, 1897, pp. 363-375 [1-13]. 



1904. Reports on the dredging operations off the West Coast of Central 



America .... carried on by the .... "Albatross" .... XXIX. Re- 

 ports on the scientific results of the expedition to the Eastern Tropical 

 Pacific .... by the .... "Albatross" .... V. Reports on the Ceph- 

 alopoda. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool, vol. 43, pp. 1-71, pis. 1-12, 7 figs, in 

 text, March, 1904. 



1904a. Report on the Cephalopoda collected by Professor Herdman, 



at Ceylon, in 1902. Rep. Govt. Ceylon Pearl Oyster Fisheries, Gulf of 

 Manaar. Supplementary Report XIV., pp. 185-200, pis. 1-3. 



1905. The Cephalopoda, in Fauna and Geography of the Maldive and 



Laccadive Archipelagoes, vol. 2, suppl. 1, pp. 975-988, text figs. 144-153, 

 pi. 95. 



1909. A Catalogue of Recent Cephalopoda. Second Supplement. 



1897-1906. Proc. Roy. Phys. Soc. Edinburgh, vol. 17, pp. 254-299, October, 

 1909. 



1910. A List of the Generic Names of Dibfanchiate Cephalopoda with 



their Type Species. Abhandl. Senckerib. Nat.-freund. Gesellsch., vol. 32, 

 pp. 407-413. Frankfurt, 1910. 



I.iiMA, I., and Ikeda, S. 1895. Description of Opisthoteuthis depressa, n. sp. 

 Journ. Coll. Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo, vol. 8, pp. 1-15, pi. 33. 



1902. Notes on a specimen of Amphitretus obtained in the Sagami Sea. 



Annotat. Zool. Japon.^ vol. 4, pp. 85-101, 3 figs, in text, pi. 2, August, 1902. 



Jatta, Giuseppe. 1896. I Cefalopodi viventi nel Golfo di Napoli (Siste- 



matica). Fauna und Flora Golf. Neapel, Monog. 23, 268 pp., 31 pis. 

 Joubin, Louis. 1894. Cephalopodes d'Amboine. Revue suisse de Zool., 



vol. 2, pp. 23-64, pis. 1-4. 

 1897. Observations sur divers Cephalopodes. Deuxieme note. Octopus 



punctatus Gabb (1). Mem. Soc. zool. France, vol. 10, pp. 110-113, pi. 9. 

 1897a. Observations sur divers Cephalopodes. Troisieme note. Ceph- 

 alopodes du Musee Polytechnique de Moscou. Bull. Soc. zool. France, vol. 



22, pp. 98-104. 

 1898. Sur quelques cephalopodes du Musee royal de Leyde et descrip- 

 tion de trois especes nouvelles. Notes Leyden Mus., vol. 20, pp. 21-28. 

 1902. Revision des Sepiolidse. Mem. Soc. zool. France, vol. 15, pp. 



80-145, 38 figs, in text. 

 Keferstein, W. 1866. In Bronn's Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs: 



Weichthiere (Malacozoa). 2 vols., Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1862-1866. 

 L\m\rck, J. B. P. A. de. 1799. Memoires d'Histoire naturelle, vol. 1, Paris, 



1799. 

 Lesson, R. P. 1830. Mollusques, in Voyage autour du Monde, etc., de la 



Coquille. Zoologie, vol. 2, Paris, 1830. 

 Lk'htenstein, K. M. H. 1818. Onychoteuthis, Sepien mit Krallen. Isis, 



pp. 1591-1592, pi. 19. 

 Linxe, Carl von. 1758. Systema Naturae. Edit. X, Holmise, 1758. 

 Lischke, C. E. 1869. Japanische Meeres-Conchylien. 3 vols., 4to, Cassel, 



1869. 

 Marchand, Werner. 1907. Der mannliche Leitungsapparat der Dibran- 



chiaten. Zeitschr. wiss. Zool., vol. 86, pp. 311-415, with 66 figs, in text. 

 M'Coy, Frederick. [1888. Prodr. Zool. Victoria, dec. XVII. ] 

 Mever, Werner T. 1908. Ueber den mannlichen Geschlechtsapparat von 



Opisthoteuthis depressa (Ijima und Ikeda). Zool. Anzeiger, vol. 29, pp. 



758-760. 

 1906a. Die Anatomic von Opisthoteuthis depressa (Ijima und Ikeda). 



Zeitschr. wiss. Zool., vol. 85, Bd. 2, pp. 183-269, 16 text figs., pis. 11-16 



(also separately printed and paged, Leipzig, 1906). 

 Middendokff, A. T. 1849. Beitrage zu einer Malacozoologica Rossica. II. 



Mem. Acad. Sci. Imp. Petersbourg (6), vol, 6, pp. 329-610, pis. 1-21. 

 Mitsukuri, K., and Ikeda, S. [1895. Notes on a gigantic Cephalopod. 



Zool. Mag. Tokyo, vol. 7, pp. 39-50, 1 pi.] 



29 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Nakf \dolf 1912. Teuthologische Notizen. 1. Die Familien der Mvopsiden. 



Zoolog. Ameig., vol. 39, pp. 241-248, March, 1912. 



1912a. Teuthologische Notizen. 3. Die Arten der Gattungen Sepiola 



und Sepietta. Zoolog. Anzeig., vol. 39, pp. 262-271, figs, la-le, 2a-2d, 



March, 1912. r ^ 



Nishikawa, T. [1906. Mezurashiki Ika. [On a rare Cephalopod.] Dobuts. 



Z. Tokyo, vol. 18, pp. 109-113]. 



[1906a. Fuyu-sei Ika-ran no ichi rei. [A case of pelagic Cephalopod 



eggs.] Dobuts. Z., Tokyo, vol. 18, pp. 310-314.] 

 d'Orbigni Alcide. 1S26. Tableau met hodique de la classe des Cephalopodes. 



Ann. Sri. Nat. (1), vol. 7, pp. 95-169. 

 1845. Mollusques vivants et fossiles. Vol. I and Atlas, Paris, 1845. 

 d'Orbigny, Alcide, and Ferussac, A. de. [1834-1848. Histoire naturalle 



generate et particuliere des cephalopodes acetabuliferes, vivants et fossiles. 



Paris, 1834-1848.] 

 Ortmann, A. 1888. Japanische Cephalopoden. Zool. Jahrb., vol. 3, pp. 



639-670, pis. 20-25. 



1891. Cephalopoden von Ceylon. Zool. Jahrb., vol. 5, pp. 669-678, pi. 46. 

 Owen, Richard. 1881. Descriptions of some new and rare Cephalopoda 



(Part II). Trans. Zool. Soc. London, vol. 11, pp. 131-170, 3 figs, in text, 



pis. 23-35, June, 1881. 

 Pfeffer, Georg. 1884. Die Cephalopoden des Hamburger Naturhistorischen 



Museums. Abhandl. Naturw. Ver. Hamburg VIII, 1, pp. 1-30, pis. 1-3. 

 — — 1900. Synopsis der cegopsiden Cephalopoden. Mitteil. Naturhist. Mus. 



Hamburg XVII, pp. 147-198. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. 1894. Notices of New Japanese Mollusks, I. Nautilus, 



vol. 7, pp. 143-144, April, 1894. 



1895. Catalogue of the Marine Mollusca of Japan. F. Stearns, Detroit, 



1895. 

 Quoy, J. R. C, and Gaimard, J. P. 1832. Zoologie, in Voyage de l'Astrolabe, 



pendant les annees 1826-29, etc. Vol. 2, Paris, 1832. 



Rafinesque, C. S. [1814. Precis des Decouvertes Somiologiques on Zoo- 



logiques et Botanique. Palermo, 1814.] 

 Risso, A. [1826. Histoire naturelle des principales productions de l'Europe 



meridionale, etc. Vol. 4, Paris, 1826.] 

 de Rochebrtjne, A. T. [1884. Etude monographique de la famille des Sepiadse. 



Bull. Soc. Philomat. Paris (7), vol. 8, pp. 74-122, pis. 3-6.] 



Schauinsland, 1899. Drei Monate auf einer Koralleninsel (Laysan). Bremen, 

 1899. 



Solander, D. [1786. Portland Catalogue.] 



Steenstrup, Japetus. 1857. Hectocotylus-formation in Argonauta and 

 Tremoctopus explained by observations on similar formations in the Cepha- 

 lopoda in general. [Translated from the German of Prof. Troschel by W. S. 

 Dallas.] Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (2), vol. 20, pp. 81-114, pis. 2, 3. 



1875. Hemisepius, en ny Slaegt af .Sepza-Blaeksprutt ernes Familie, med 

 Bemaerkninger om *Sepio-Formerne i Almindelighed. Vid. Selsk. Skrift., 

 (5), vol. 10, pp. 465-482, I-IV, pis. 1, 2. 



1880. Orientering i de Ommatostrephagtige Blaeksprutters inbyrdes 

 Forhold. Overs. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh., pp. 73-110, 1 pi. and text fig. 



1880o. Sepiella Gray, Stp. Vid. Meddel. nat. Foren. Kiobenhavn, 

 1880, pp. 347-356, figs. 1-8. 



1881. Sepiadarium og Idiosepius, to nye Slaegter af Sepiernes Familie. 

 Vidensk. Selsk. Skrift., (6), vol. 1, pp. 213-242, pi. 1. 



1881a. Professor Verrils to nye Cephalopodslaegter: Sthenoteuthis og 

 !.<-stoteuthis. Overs. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh. 1881, pp. 1-27, pi. 1. 



1882. Notae Teuthologicae. 1-4. Overs. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh., 

 pp. 143-168 [1-26]. 



>7. Notae Teuthologicae. 6. Species generis Sepiolae Maris Mediter- 

 inei. Overs. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh. 1887, pp. 47-66 [1-20]. 



sTotse Teuthologicae. 7. Overs. K. D. Vidensk. Selsk. Forh. 1887, 

 pp. 67-126 [21-80]. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



Troschel, F. H. 1857. Bemerkungen liber die Cephalopoden von Messina. 



Archiv fur Naturgesch., Jahrg. 23, vol. 1, pp. 40-76, pis. 4, 5. 

 Tryon, Gsjorge W., Jr. 1879. Cephalopoda. Manual of Conchology (1). 



vol. 1, 316 pp., 112 pis., 8vo, Philadelphia, 1879. 



Verany, J. B. [1851. Mollusques mediterraneans, observes, decrits, figures 



et chromolithographies d'apres le vivant, I. Cephalopodes de la Mediter- 



ranee. Genes, 1851.] 

 Verrill, Addison E. 1881. The Cephalopods of the North-eastern coast of 



America. Part II. The Smaller Cephalopods, including the Squids and 



the Octopi, with other allied forms. Trans. Connecticut Acad. Sci., vol. 5, 



pp. 259-446, pis. 26-56, June, 1880-December, 1881. 

 1882. Report on the Cephalopods of the Northeastern coast of America. 



Rep. U. S. Com. Fish and Fisheries 1879, pp. 211-455 [1-245], pis. 1-46, 



Washington, 1882. 



Wulker, Gerhard. 1910. Ueber Japanische Cephalopoden. Beitrage zur 

 Kenntnis der Systematik und Anatomie der Dibranchiaten. Abhandl. 

 II Kl. K. Akad. Wiss., Ill Suppl., Bd. 1. Abhandl., 71 pp., 5 pis., Miinchen, 

 1910. 



Explanation of Plates V-IX. 



Plate V. — Fig. 1. — Stoloteuthis nipponensis tf, dorsal aspect of type, X 2|; [32]. 

 Fig. 2. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 

 Fig. 3. — Right lateral view of same, same scale. 

 Fig. 4. — Enlarged view of left tentacle club of same. 

 Fig. 5. — Inioteuthis japonica d", dorsal aspect of cotype, X 2; [112]. 



Plate VI. — Fig. 1. — Euprymna morsel 9 , dorsal aspect of cotype, X 2; [105]. 

 Fig. 2. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 

 Fig. 3. — Sepioteuthis lessoniana c?, ventral view of specimen from Waka- 



noura, X i; [36]. 

 Fig. 4i.—Ommastrephes sloanii, inner aspect of right third arm of specimen 



from Hakodate, nearly natural size; [257]. 

 Fig. 5. — Sepioteuthis lessoniana 9 dorsal aspect of gladius [35]. 



Plate VII. — Fig. 1. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , dorsal view of cotype, nearly 

 natural size; [147]. 



Fig. 2. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 



Fig. 3. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , dorsal view of type, same scale as pre- 

 ceding; [147]. 



Fig. 4. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 



Plate VIII. — Fig. 1. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , dorsal view of specimen from 



Misaki, nearly natural size; [279]. 

 Fig. 2. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 

 Fig. 3. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , dorsal view of another specimen from 



Misaki, same scale as preceding; [279]. 

 Fig. 4. — Ventral view of same, same scale. 



Plate IX. — Fig. 1. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9, tip of left ventral arm, outer 



aspect, much enlarged; [147]. 

 Fig. 2. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9, left eye of type, lateral aspect; much 



enlarged; [147]. 

 Fig. 3. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , right eye of type, ventral aspect showing 



arrangement of photophores; same scale as preceding; [147]. The 



eyeball has protruded itself through the lid opening. 

 Fig. 4. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9, inner aspect of left ventral arm; X 4; 



U 47 l- 

 Fig. 5. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , funnel of cotype laid open from below 



to show the funnel organ; X 5; [147]. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



Fig. G. — Abraliopsis scintillans 9 , left tentacle club of cotype, inner aspect, 



drawn from a mount in balsam; X 13; [147]. 

 Fig. 7. — Sepia formosana, left tentacle club of type, inner aspect; X 2§; 



[361]. Drawn by John H. Paine. 



>te. — Plates VII and VIII and figs. 3 and 4 of PJate VI are from photographs 

 by Mr. John H. Paine, of Stanford University. The remaining illustrations 

 with the exception of fig. 7 on Plate IX were drawn by Miss Lora Woodhead, 

 of Stanford University. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



445 



A NEW SPECIES OF VERTIGO FROM FLORIDA. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 



Vertigo hebardi n. sp. 



Shell umbilicate; rather short; oval; very small, fragile, 

 corneous; whorls 3|, convex, the first smooth, penultimate irregu- 

 larly striate, body whorl with a few growth striae. Aperture semi- 

 ovate, provided with 5 teeth, parietal lamella very high and long, 



angular much lower and shorter than parietal, 

 columellar very strong and directed downward, 

 the two palatals are high and short. No 

 crest behind the outer lip. 

 Alt. 1.25, diam. .84 mm. 

 This species is much smaller than V. rugosula 

 St. and does not have such long palatals; 

 it is smaller than V. oralis St. and has fewer 

 teeth, also lacks the impression on the outer lip. 



Type in the collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences -of 

 Philadelphia; Number 106,359; picked from leaf -mould collected 

 on Long Key, Florida, by Mr. Morgan Hebard. It was associated 

 with Chondropoma dentatum Say, Helicina clappi Pils., H. tantilla 

 Pils., Polygyra c. carpenteriana Bid., Thysanophora incrustata Poey, 

 T. selenina Gld., T. cceca Guppy> T. plagioptycha Shutt., Yitrea 

 dalliana 'Simps.' Pils., Varicella g. floridana Pils., Succinea floridana 

 Pils., and 19 specimens of Drymmus multilineatus Say, two of which 

 are almost entirely black. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



OBSERVATIONS 05 THE STRUCTURE OF SOME CORAL BEDS IN THE 



HAMILTON SHALE. 



BY BURNETT SMITH. 



In the majority of the Paleozoic systems layers of rock occasionally 

 occur which are made up in large part of the remains of corals. 

 These coral masses in the attitudes and in the mutual crowding of 

 their individuals, as well as in their general field relations, exhibit 

 conclusive evidence that they lie in the position of original growth. 

 From certainly the Silurian upward we find among such coral layers 

 many which in structure approach, to a greater or less degree, the 

 reefs of existing seas. Such fossil reefs are, as might be expected, 

 more abundant in the limestones, and probably the Silurian and 

 Devonian rocks of this type furnish us with the best examples which 

 are to be found throughout the North American Paleozoic series. 1 

 In most cases, however, the reefs can be studied for only a small 

 part of their extent. For instance, the Onondaga limestone of 

 New York State is in many localities and through much of its thick- 

 ness nothing more than an old reef, but here, as a rule, only a small 

 horizontal section is exposed and the delimiting of the actual margins 

 of the coral masses must be left to the field of conjecture. In the 

 later Hamilton shale of the same region corals are a rather incon- 

 spicuous element when compared with the rich fauna of brachiopods 

 and mollusks. Locally, however, we find in the shales layers which 

 are composed of corals to the practical exclusion of other forms of 

 ife. Such layers are, in the main, of small thickness, and in studying 

 them we are again confronted with the usual limited horizontal 

 exposure. The coral reefs (if they can be dignified with the term) 

 which form the basis for this description are an exception in this 

 hot respect, for they present a large and very beautiful exposure of 

 about a mile along the eastern shore of Skaneateles Lake, in Onon- 

 daga County, New York. 



For purposes of convenience in presentation it is advisable to 

 consider these structures under the following headings: (1) The 



Chamberlin, in Geology of Wisconsin, vol. I, 1873-79; C. J. Sarle, 

 ncan Geologist, November, 1901, pp. 282-299 (chiefly Bryozoa), and 

 A. W. Grabau, in Bull. Geol. Soc. Am., vol. 14, p. 337 1903-4 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



447 



Large Southern Reef; (2) The Channel, and (3) The Small Northern 

 Reef. 



The Large Southern Reef. — As we follow the shore of the lake 

 northwestward from Spafford Landing (Skaneateles Quadrangle, 

 U. S. G. S.), the corals first appear above water level on the north 

 side of a small point known locally under the terms Ivy Point and 

 also Willow Point. The reef at its first appearance ranges from 

 3.5 feet to 4 feet thick and is made up almost entirely of the hard 

 parts of Zaphrentis, Heliophyllum, and Cystiphyllum, together with 

 the silt which filled the interstices between the growing corals and 

 brought an end to their growth. The reef maintains this uniform 

 character and thickness as far northwestward as the point known 

 locally as Staghorn Point — a distance of approximately two-thirds 

 of a mile. From Ivy Point the reef rises gradually for a ways, then 

 runs with little or no dip well up toward Staghorn Point, where the 



N W 



Otaiylwn It 



Diagrammatic northwest-southeast section of the Staghorn Point Coral 

 Masses in the Hamilton Shale of Skaneateles Lake, N. Y. 



Reefs in solid black. Shales in lines. Channel and reef-margin deposits in 

 lines and dots. S = Southern Reef. C = Channel. N = Northern Reef. 



dip increases. Its base is from 1 to 2 feet above high-water 

 mark just south of Staghorn Point. Throughout this distance 

 (from Ivy Point to Staghorn Point) the reef is apparently entirely 

 conformable with the beds above and below. It is underlaid by 

 thickly bedded hard limy shale, which carries a characteristic Hamil- 

 ton fauna rich in brachiopods and mollusks. It is immediately 

 overlaid by shales carrying a sparse fauna, the typical Hamilton 

 assemblage reappearing a few feet above the reef. In the reef 

 itself the species of brachiopods and mollusks, so abundant through- 

 out the rest of the Hamilton, are almost entirely lacking. 



Just north of Staghorn Point the base of the reef is about 5 feet 

 above the lake level and its thickness has fallen to about 3 feet. 

 For a distance of about 700" feet northward the reef rises until it is 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



finally about 8 feet above the level of the lake, while during this 

 rise it thins rapidly down to about 9 inches in thickness. Throughout 

 this thinning it still maintains the same conformable relations with 

 the thickly bedded shales below and the thinly bedded shales above, 

 as were observed south of Staghorn Point. 



The reef now takes a sharp drop toward the north and thin layers 

 of corals and limy shales fan away from it (PI. X, PI. XI, fig. 1). 

 A- we approach lake level the mass of corals thickens, but it is soon 

 lost again in the complex of thin interbedded layers. We are here 

 evidently on the northern border of the southern reef. 



The Channel. — The space between the reef above described and 

 that which lies to the north was evidently an open channel during 

 most of the time when the corals of the two reefs flourished. The 

 abrupt descent of the fanning layers from both reefs toward mid- 

 channel and the discordance with the uniform southerly dip of the 

 shales which later overwhelmed the reefs point conclusively to 

 contemporaneous erosion for an explanation of the observed phenom- 

 ena. This channel was gradually filled with limy silt, and occa- 

 sionally an invasion of undersized corals ventured out into the 

 currents only to be stifled by more silt without attaining maturity. 

 These conditions are recorded by from 7 to 8 feet of thin limy shales 

 and interbedded colonies of scattered corals. Ripple marks and 

 cross-bedding in the limy layers bear witness to the shallowness as 

 well as to the motion of the water in this old channel. 



The Small Northern Reef. — At the southern edge of this small reef 

 the conditions observed at the northern margin of the larger southern 

 reef are duplicated. A thick mass of corals occurs near the lake 

 level. These corals rise rapidly and during their rise from the lake 

 the beds deposited in the old channel are seen to fan away from them. 

 The reef rises sharply to a height of 10 feet above the lake, and here 

 it is little more than a foot in thickness. Followed a short distance 

 north, the conditions on the southern edge are again met with, the 

 reef descends rapidly, thickens, and thin limy shales and coral 

 colonies fan away from the main mass. Just north of the reef border 

 this series of thin, ripple-marked, limy shales and seams of corals is 

 about 9 or 10 feet thick. These beds, which owe their origin to the 

 coral growths and to the disintegration of the corals, maintain their 

 character for some distance along the lake shore — that is, for some 



tance away from the reef (PI. XI, fig. 3), but, being reef -margin 

 dep< heir distinctive features disappear as the distance from 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



the reef increases, and we can observe a gradual lateral transition 

 into contemporaneous shale of the typical Hamilton fades. 2 



Sequence of Events. — In interpreting the observed facts we can 

 assume with reasonable certainty that a local shallowing of the 

 Hamilton Sea combined with an introduction of clearer water cur- 

 rents produced the conditions which were favorable to the growth 

 of the corals. The limy shales were followed by communities of 

 corals. During the growth of these beds currents kept a channel 

 excavated in the northern portion of the region of coral *growth. 

 This channel was slowly filled with lime mud derived from the 

 growing reefs and by invading colonies of corals, which latter, 

 however, were never able to maintain their existence for long in the 

 waters of the channel. Lime muds also derived from the reefs 

 spread out for a small space around the northern margin of the 

 area of coral growth. 



When the channel between the two reefs was nearly filled with 

 lime mud, the whole reef area was overwhelmed by fine land-derived 

 clay muds. This effectually stopped the growth of the reefs, exter- 

 minating the corals and reintroducing the prevalent fauna of the 

 Hamilton Seas. 



Correlations. 



As far as the author has been able to learn, the few references to 

 the Staghorn Point coral masses which are to be found in geological 

 literature are rather short and incidental. In view, however, of 

 the advisability of correlating these reefs with one of the various 

 Hamilton coral-bearing beds which occur in other portions of the 

 county and of the State, the author believes it pertinent to mention 

 here such references as are known to him. 



In 1886 Mr. E. B. Knapp, 3 in a paper read before the Educational 

 Council of Onondaga County and published at a later date, speaks 

 of the principal collecting grounds for corals in the local Hamilton. 

 We find also that he gives 6 feet as the thickness of the "old coral 

 reef" at Staghorn Point. 



Schneider, 4 in 1894, speaks very briefly of "the ancient coral reef 

 at Staghorn Point" as an excellent collecting ground for cyatho- 

 phylloid corals, but makes no mention of the size or structure of the 

 reef. 



2 We have good negative evidence that the section above described is near 

 the western limit of the coral masses, for considerable search has failed to disclose 

 any reefs on the western shore of Skaneateles Lake. 



3 Knapp, E. B., Glimpses of the Geology of Onondaga County, p. 5. 



4 .Schneider, P. F., Notes on the Geology of Onondaga County, Syracuse, 1894. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Luther, 5 in his Economic Geology of Onondaga County, New York 

 (p. 282), saj's: "On the east shore, near Staghorn Point, is a very 

 remarkable bed of fossil corals. It is a solid mass of cyathophylloid 

 or cup corals, together with other genera. It is 5 feet thick at the 

 thickest place, and is exposed along the shore, near the level of the 

 water, for a distance of a quarter of a mile or more. Thousands of 

 specimens, some of them 10 or 12 inches long, and sufficiently sug- 

 gestive of staghorns to give the name to the point, are in sight in 

 the lay#r or loose in the water. This coral reef, or a similar one at 

 about the same horizon, is exposed at Lord's Hill, several miles 

 northeast, and along the hillside w T est of Otisco Lake. From its 

 position it seems probable that this bed is the eastern extension of 

 the Encrinal band of the western counties, which abounds in cyatho- 

 phylloid corals of the same species." 



Cleland, 6 in his Fauna of the Hamilton Formation of the Cayuga 

 Lake Section in Central New York (p. 85), after refering to Luther's 

 observations, says: "Since in Ontario, Seneca, and Cayuga Counties 

 the most abundant coral faunas are in the Basal Hamilton, either 

 this coral reef at Skaneateles Lake is (1) a continuation of the stratum 

 called the 'Basal Hamilton,' which is several hundred feet above 

 the Alarcellus shales in the Cayuga Lake section, or (2) the Encrinal, 

 or (3) the union of (1) and (2), or (4) a separate stratum." Lower 

 on the same page we find: "East of Cayuga Lake the correlation 

 of the coral zones is yet to be worked out. However, conditions of 

 sedimentation, such as would produce a limestone stratum anywhere 

 in the Middle Hamilton, would be adapted to and contain what 

 might be called a limestone fauna which would not differ materially 

 from the fauna of the Encrinal; and whether this stratum were 

 continuous or not, the same association of fossil would probably 

 exist." 



Leaving the interesting question of the possible equivalency of 

 the Staghorn Point reefs with "the Encrinal" or some other of the 

 western lime bands, let us return to the much nearer coral layers 

 which are found to the east and northeast of Staghorn Point. 

 Luther's locality of "Lord's Hill" I have so far been unable to 

 identify with absolute certainty, but the exposures on the "hillside 

 west of Otisco Lake" are numerous and probably most of them have 

 been visited. These latter are known to exhibit an approximately 

 northwest and southeast outcrop for about 3 miles, and as the 



5 Luther, D. D., Rep. N. Y. State Geologist, 1895. 



6 Cleland, H. F., Bull. 206, U. S. G. S. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



lower limit of the corals ranges in altitude between 1,000 feet and 

 1,060 feet it is reasonable to assume that the exposures trend not 

 far from the line of strike. The coral beds of the Otisco Valley 

 present certain differences from the Staghorn Point masses. In 

 the first place, the coralline strata are usually thicker, probably 10 

 feet thick at the northernmost exposure examined, while at a ravine 

 cutting across the north and south road which leads to the Otisco 

 causeway 7 we find two beds of corals — a lower one of undetermined 

 thickness at 1,000 feet altitude separated by non-coralline shales 

 from an upper bed which is at least 30 feet thick. The Otisco 

 exposures are for the most part in very narrow gullies choked with 

 debris, and though there can be no doubt that they represent an 

 essentially continuous system, the exact structure is hardly deter- 

 minable. 



The question then naturally arises as to whether or no these 

 Otisco Valley reefs are the contemporaries and the stratigraphic 

 equivalents of the Staghorn Point reefs. Checks with a reliable 

 reference plane are hard to make in the Otisco Valley, but the coral 

 masses appear to lie about 300 feet below the base of the Tully 

 limestone, while in the Skaneateles Valley the corresponding differ- 

 ence is about 360 feet. Considering the great variations in thickness 

 which these coral masses exhibit, we are, it is believed, justified in 

 regarding this evidence as pointing to essential stratigraphic equiva- 

 lency. 



Regarding, then, the Otisco Valley and the Staghorn Point masses 

 as a practically contemporaneous system of coral bodies growing 

 in the same sea, it is advisable to notice here two other Onondaga 

 County exposures — those near the hamlets of Vesper and Joshua 

 (Tully Quadrangle, U. S. G. S.). 



The Vesper Reef is exposed in the Fellows Falls ravine and has 

 been mentioned very briefly by Clarke 8 and Luther as "exposed in 

 the Fellows Falls ravine 3 miles west of Tully. " This bed is about 

 6 feet and 4 inches thick and lies approximately 350 feet below the 

 Tully limestone or in practical agreement with the Staghorn Point 

 reefs. 



The coral layers near Joshua 9 lie at a much higher altitude than 

 any of the others and their exact horizon is much less susceptible of 

 precise determination. They are exposed between the 1,180 and 



7 The causeway is represented in an unfinished condition on the topographic 

 map of the Skaneateles Quadrangle (U. S. G. S.). 



8 Clarke, John M., and Luther, D. D., N. Y. Slate Museum Bull. 82, p. 48. 



9 This is presumably Luther's "Lord's Hill" locality. See pi. 79, Lot 218, 

 in Sweet's New Atlas of Onondaga County, New York, 1874. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug.,. 



1,300 feet contours about 1| miles southeast of Joshua and 

 some nine miles from Staghorn Point in a northeasterly direc- 

 As this line corresponds quite closely to the general direction 

 of dip of the Hamilton shales, the difference in altitude in no way 

 precludes the stratigraphic equivalency of the Joshua and Staghorn 

 Point beds. Though the horizontal exposure is very limited at the 

 Joshua locality, we are furnished with quite an extensive vertical 

 section. Enough is revealed to allow us to say that here we have 

 an upper reef some 65 feet thick separated by barren shales from one 

 or more thinner reefs. 



Allowing, then, essential contemporaneity for the Onondaga County 

 coral masses already mentioned, it is well in passing to say that 

 other coral-bearing localities to the east of Vesper and Joshua have 

 not yet been visited, while to the west of Staghorn Point the absence 

 of definite reefs in the Skaneateles Valley renders Luther's suggestion 

 of correlation with the "Encrinal band" still an open question. 



The- Coral-bearing Drift of the Otisco Valley. — Along the eastern 

 side of the Otisco Valley exposures of the bed rock are, on the whole, 

 quite rare. So far none of the exposures examined have shown 

 coral beds in situ. The glacial drift, on the other hand, is very high 

 in cyathophylloid corals. 



The ultimate source of drift inclusions is always open to some 

 question, but in the present case the corals, besides being specifically 

 identical with those of the Hamilton reefs, are also of the same 

 general size and in many cases carry adherent fragments of the 

 Hamilton matrix. 10 After the examination of a large number of 

 specimens the author believes that no reasonable doubt can exist 

 as to the origin of these fossils. 



In places the drift is so packed with corals as to preclude the 

 theory of transportation for any considerable distance. Every- 

 thing, in fact, points to a very local source, and unless we ascribe 

 this to the Joshua reefs alone, it is believed that we are warranted 

 in assuming the presence of extensive though drift-covered Hamilton 

 reefs along the eastern wall of the Otisco Valley. Though the 

 exact horizon of such hypothetical reefs must, of course, remain 

 in doubt, the probabilities are that it coincides quite closely with the 

 horizon of those Hamilton reefs which we can see in place. 



In view of the great number of corals in the local Onondaga limestone, 



and in view of the fact that the Hamilton species are also found in the limestone, 



night be urged that some of this is Onondaga drift. The Hamilton reefs are, 



, made up almost entirely of Zaphrentis, Heliophyllum, and Cystiphyllum, 



)nondaga contains not only many additional genera of corals, but an 



associated Brachiopods, Bryozoa, Crinoid stems, etc. These 



s have not been found in the Otisco Valley drift. 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 453 



Summary. 



From the observations briefly outlined in this paper, it is believed 

 that we can draw the following conclusions concerning the geological 

 history of this area in central New York: (1) During Hamilton 

 time a considerable surface of the sea-bottom shallowed, this shallow- 

 ing being accompanied by the introduction of clear ocean currents 

 with the resultant cessation or at least interruption of mud deposition. 



(2) These physical changes of sea-bottom and of sea produced 

 conditions favorable to the growth and development of the same 

 coral fauna throughout the greater part of the area. The coral 

 growths varied greatly in thickness with the locality. In places 

 they endured for a considerable time, while in other nearby situations 

 the growth was discontinuous and the history is recorded in the 

 strata by thin interbedded coral bands and limy shales — the probable 

 records of old channels. 



(3) Though these changes, physical and faunal, were of short 

 duration when compared with the whole of Hamilton time, they 

 nevertheless represent perhaps the most striking episode in the 

 history of the Hamilton Sea in this area, namely, a transitory return 

 to Onondaga-like conditions, followed again by the mud-bearing 

 waters and the mud-loving fauna of the typical Hamilton. 



Among the unsolved problems connected with these reefs perhaps 

 of most importance are the following: 



(a) Correlation with coral-bearing horizons in the western portion 

 of the State. 



(6) Determination of the direction from which the faunal and 

 environmental invasion came. 



(c) Possible correlation with some important, though perhaps 

 distant, crustal movement. 



Acknowledgments are due to Mr. Sedgwick Smith, of Harvard 

 University, for assistance in the field, and to Mrs. Ethel Ostrander 

 Smith, who photographed the reef structures under rather difficult 

 conditions. 



Explanation of Plates X and XI. 



Plate X. — Coral layers fanning away from the northern margin of the Southern 

 Reef (see text figure, S) near Staghorn Point, Skaneateles Lake, N. Y. 

 Eroded shale (a) below, followed by fan or wedge-shaped reef-margin deposits 

 (6), with thinly, bedded shale (c) at the top. 



Plate XI. — Reef and reef -margin deposits near Staghorn Point, Skaneateles 

 Lake, N. Y. 

 Fig. 1. — Coral layers fanning away from the northern margin of the Southern 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Aug., 



Reef (text figure, S). Illustrates the abrupt northward (to the left) descent 

 of the marginal deposits (b) into the channel (see text figure, C) and the 

 truncation of the southward dipping shale (a) below. 



Fig. 2. — Northern margin of the Southern Reef. In this figure the reef itself 

 cannot be distinguished, but its base is shown by the top of the truncated 

 shale below the reef. The discordance between the line of truncation 

 (x, y) and the southward dip of the shale above the reef is also illustrated. 



Fig. 3. — Reef-margin deposits about the northern border of the Northern 

 Reef (see text figure, N). These deposits lie beyond the area in which 

 fanning occurs and their alternating hard and soft layers are essentially 

 parallel. The hard layers are limy and the soft layers are friable shale. 






PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE II. 



4 



WHERRY: SUN-CRACKS AND RINGING ROCKS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE III. 



\>&i 



WHERRY: SILICIFIED WOOD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE IV. 



irt tiiimiiiiai 



npiiii. m 



A 







^*Sm 



WHERRY: SILICIFIED WOOD. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



TLATE V 



BERRY: JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191'2. 



PLATE VI. 



BERRY. JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE VII. 



BERRY: JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE VIII. 



BERRY: JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE IX. 



>1 



<% 



BERRY: JAPANESE CEPHALOPODA. 





c 

 x 



w 



-3 



Q 



O 

 M 



> 



r 

 a 

 d 



X 

 PI 



r 

 -J 

 o 

 z 



in 



> 

 p] 



C 



p 



> 



> 

 p 



> 

 H 



w 



o 



13 



X 



r 

 > 



CD 



to 



13 



r 

 > 



H 

 M 



X 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XI. 



\ far 



3 



■ % 



BURNETT SMITH : CORAL BEDS IN THE HAMILTON SHALE. 






X 



w 

 p 

 < 



p 



S 



fc 

 o 



en 

 P 

 o 



2 



S 

 o 



CO 



Oi 



< ^ 

 PC 

 P 

 E- 



< 



o 

 >- 



w 

 p 



<^ 

 o 

 < 



h 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



NEW POLYCLADS FROM MONTEREY BAY, CALIFORNIA. 

 BY HAROLD HEATH AND ERNEST A. MCGREGOR. 



The material serving as a basis for the present paper was collected 

 along the rocky beaches on the southern border of Monterey Bay 

 or was dredged in the shallow water off shore. That it does not 

 embrace all of the polyclads inhabiting this region is recognized, 

 but it probably includes the more common species, and will, it is 

 hoped, stimulate others to complete the list and extend their inves- 

 tigations into other localities bordering the western coast of North 

 America. It is a surprising fact that up to the present time, so far 

 as we can learn, but three species of these animals have been recorded 

 between Panama and the coast of Asia, a distance of over 7,000 

 miles. Stimpson's characteristically brief diagnosis of Leptoplana 

 maculosa is far from being exclusive, and accordingly must exist 

 as a nomen nudum. On the other hand, Miss Plehn's description 

 of Leptoplana calif ornica and Amblycereus luteus is accurate and 

 complete, as we know from specimens in hand. 



Concerning the habits of these animals, we have unfortunately 

 little to say on the subject. In captivity practically all of the 

 species fail to thrive, and if they live at all withdraw into some 

 shaded nook or remain quiet for hours together. In their native 

 haunts they are even more retiring, and observations upon their 

 mode of life are very difficult. Planocera californica occupies sites 

 farthest removed from low-tide mark. Under stones or in crevices 

 of the rocks it finds a hiding place and a food supply consisting of 

 small animals together with scant quantities of diatoms. Through- 

 out the greater part of the year its egg masses, forming more or less 

 circular patches from two to six millimeters in diameter, appear like 

 encrusting plant growths concealed in crevices of the rocks or attached 

 to the under surfaces of boulders scattered on the beach. About 

 mean-tide mark and even higher on the shore where the surf breaks 

 strongly, and from such situations down to the low-tide mark, 

 nearly all of the species of Leptoplana find a home. Leptoplana 

 rupicola was encountered upon two occasions only attached to the 

 under surface of large rocks at about the limit of extreme low tide. 

 This is likewise the habitat of Leptoplana timida and Stylostomum 

 30 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept.. 



califoi Nothing further is known concerning their mode of 



life. Leploplana inquieta was dredged on one occasion in water 



about six fathoms in depth; it is usually concealed in the burrows 



coring mollusks (Penitella penita), and when dislodged 



pr< to be an active, restless species incapable of living in 



ptivity. Leploplana saxicola is peculiar in that it inhabits 



small, elevated tide pools whose waters are changed only during 



rough weather, when they are submerged in the dashing surf. A 



growth of algae (Cladophora) frequently lines such pools, and in 



its i'eltwork this species may be found in abundance, living upon 



small mollusks, Crustacea, and an occasional rhabdocele, whose 



remains have been found in the digestive tract. The species of 



Eurylepla and Amblycereus are usually found in the rhizoids of the 



brown kelp (Macrocyslis pyrijera). Amblycereus luteus is an active 



swimmer, progressing by means of wave-like undulations of the 



margins of the body. Most of the remaining species described in 



the following pages were secured from collections made by students 



attending the seaside laboratory of Stanford University at Pacific 



drove and were gathered at low tide, though we have no accurate, 



information concerning their exact habitat or mode of life. 



The food of several of the species consists largely of minute organ- 

 isms in the plankton or small, strictly littoral species. In their 

 digestive tracts have been found small spores, unicellular plants, 

 especially diatoms, numerous sponge spicules, remains of amphipods 

 and isopods, multitudes of Sabella larvae, small annelids and the 

 radulse of gastropod mollusks. These substances frequently impart 

 a characteristic color to the animal, and several of the more trans- 

 parent species derive much of their apparent outward tint to materials 

 in the digestive tract, as is shown by keeping such animals in cap- 

 tivity without food until that already eaten has digested, when their 

 true color becomes apparent. 



In the fixation of these animals the ordinary methods were" em- 

 ployed. Lang's formula particularly was used with good results, 

 but was slightly inferior to another solution that we devised during 

 the course of our study. To 4 parts of a saturated solution of corro- 

 sive sublimate 1 part of formaldehyde was added, and 100 parts of 

 this mixture were combined with 5 parts of glacial acetic acid. The 

 solution was used hot and usually was poured over the specimen, 

 though active, highly contractile individuals were often imprisoned 

 1 >etween two microscope slides lightly held together. When this last- 

 led device was employed, the specimen usually remained attached 




1 



1912. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



to one of the slides, and in this position was passed through the 

 various grades of alcohol and cleared and mounted. In a few species 

 the active movements of the body may be inhibited to a considerable 

 degree by allowing them to remain for some time in sea water held 

 in small vessels, but in the greater number of cases the resulting 

 sluggishness is accompanied by an abnormal distortion of the body 

 that is difficult to overcome. Chloretone (aceto-chloroform) and 

 a number of other narcotizing agents were used from time to time, 

 but without much success, since the animals, even while compara- 

 tively active, would undergo a surprising degree of disassociation of 

 the tissues. Delafield's hematoxylin was usually employed as a 

 stain, occasionally with Orange G or rubin, and after such treatment 

 the specimens were generally examined in clove oil and finally 

 mounted in balsam. 



Key to California. Species. 



I. Without sucking disc on ventral surface Tribe Acotylea. 



A. Nuchal tentacles present Family Planocerid^e. 



a. Pharynx almost wholly in middle half of body; antrum- 

 masculinum continued close to dorsal surface as a 

 crescent-shaped blind sac; accessory sac 3-parted, 



Planocera calif ornica. 

 aa. Pharynx nearly central; antrum-mascujinum normal: ac- 

 cessory sac normal, 

 b. Nuchal tentacles at beginning of second fourth of 

 body; ample pharynx with large deep folds; sex 

 openings rather close to posterior border of pharyn- 

 geal pocket Planocera burchami. 



bb. Nuchal tentacles before end of first fifth of body; 

 pharynx small and weakly folded; gut branches 

 anastomosing; *sex openings far removed from 

 pharyngeal pocket and from posterior end of body, 



Stijloehopla na calif ornica . 



AA. Nuchal tentacles wanting Family Leptoplanid^e. 



a. A single seminal vesicle Genus Leptoplana. 



b. Separate sex openings. 



c. Vasa deferentia anastomosing L. rupicola. 



cc. Vasa deferentia unbranched; gut branches anas- 

 tomosing, 

 d. Pharynx central, deeply lobed; penis broad, 

 blunt; accessory sac lying wholly behind 



the female opening L. timida. 



dd. Pharynx considerably nearer the posterior end, 

 weakly folded; penis very long, attenuate; 

 accessory sac lying wholly before the female 

 opening : L. saxicola. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



bb. ( ommon sex opening. 



c. Tentacle eyes small, numerous; cerebral eyes 



minute, converging anteriorly L. californica. 



cc. Tentacle eyes large, few; cerebral eyes not con- 

 verging L. inquieta. 



aa. A pair of seminal vesicles Phylloplana litoricola. 



II. With sucking disc on ventral surface Tribe Cotylea. 



A. Numerous gut branches; tentacles appear as marginal folds; 



pharynx folded Family Pseudocerid^e. 



a. Approximately 50 pairs of gut branches, 



Lichenoplana lepida. 

 AA. Few gut branches; solid marginal tentacles; pharynx without 



folds Family Euryleptid^e. 



a. Mouth and male sex opening a common aperture; female 

 pore before hind end of pharynx, 



Stylostomum calif ornicvm. 



aa. Mouth and male aperture not united; female opening 



behind posterior end of pharynx. 



b. Mouth immediately behind the brain which is close to 



the anterior body margin; male aperture under 



.front end of pharyngeal pocket; tentacles lacking, 



Acer os langi. 



bb. Mouth well removed from brain and body margin; 



male aperture behind pharyngeal pocket or ventral 



to posterior end of it; tentacles usually present. 



c. Eyes lacking in region of tentacles; vasa deferentia 



and uteri anastomosed; no uterus glands, 



Anciliplana graffi. 

 cc. Eyes present in tentacle region. 



d. A pair of uterus glands present; gut branches 

 and vasa deferentia not anastomosing, 



Eurylepta aurantiaca. 

 dd. Uterus glands wanting; gut branches anas- 

 tomosed Genus Euryleptodes. 



e. Granular gland present; vasa deferentia 

 unbranched. 



f. Tentacles well developed E. cavicola. 



ff. Tentacles absent or rudimentary, 1 



E. panmdus. 



ee. Granular gland absent; vasa deferentia 



elaborately anastomosed E. phyllvlus. 



Tribus ACOTYLEA. 



Without sucking disc. Mouth in middle of the body or behind it. 

 Pharynx ruff-like. Copulatory apparatus in the posterior end of 

 the body. Without tentacles or with nuchal tentacles. 



1 Cf. page 485. 




1912.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



459 



Family PLANOCERID^E Lang, 1884. 



With nuchal tentacles. Mouth about the middle of the body. 

 Penis directed backward. 



Genus PLANOCERA. de Blainville, 1828. 



With slender, pointed nuchal tentacles well removed from the 

 anterior end of the body. Separated sex openings a considerable 

 distance from the posterior end. Eyes on bases of tentacles and 

 in the brain area. 

 Planocera californica sp. nov. 



This species is fairly abundant along the southern coast of Mon- 

 terey Bay, and to the south for at least thirty-four miles. It usually 

 occurs above mean tide in crevices of the rocks and beneath boulders 

 on the beach. The ground color is light transparent olive, upon 

 which a system of chocolate-colored markings occur, corresponding 

 closely to the position of the digestive tract. A long bar of this 

 color extends along the mid-dorsal line from the front of the brain 

 to the reproductive openings, sending off lateral branches along its 

 course which ramify to the body margin. On the ventral surface 

 of the animal the tissues are unpigmented and the somatic muscles 

 are of whitish cast and so opaque that the internal organs are 

 invisible. 



The largest specimen (PI. XVIII, fig. 39) measured 24 mm. in 



length by 14 mm. in width, and the oval or broadly elliptical body 



is of very firm consistency. Nipple-like retractile tentacles occur 



immediately before the 



end of the first fifth of . . 



• • •• 



the body. The eyes 

 (text fig. 1) occur in the 

 two usual groups — one, 

 consisting of about 

 ninety large ocelli in 

 each of the tentacle clus- 

 ters distributed in and 

 about the tentacles in 

 somewhat spindle- 

 shaped areas diverging 

 anteriorly, while the 

 other, the cerebral set, 

 comprises about sixty- 

 five smaller eyes, commencing at the level of the posterior border of 



4 



• • ».. . 



r- 



.**-.. 





». 



'■'k 



Fig. 1. — Eyes of Planocera californica. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



the brain and extending directly forward along the sides of this 

 organ fo a point a little farther from the brain than its length. 

 The mouth (PL XVIII, fig. 39), situated somewhat in front of the 

 the body, opens into the pharnyx, which is placed almost 

 entirely in front of the centre of the animal. Its length is between 

 -third and one-fourth that of the body, and is devoid of diver- 

 ticula although it is moderately folded. The rather narrow main 

 gut, of about the same length as the pharyngeal pocket, bears six 

 or seven pairs of lateral branches with occasional alternating out- 

 pouching^. A median branch crosses the brain, and it like the 

 others is without anastomoses. 



It is evident that this species is carnivorous, as both the type and 

 cotype contain radulse of some gastropod mollusk. In one individual 

 a radula occupies the anterior branch of the gut, extending across 

 the brain, and shows signs of disintegration under the action of the 

 digestive juice. Also in many of the gut pouches isolated teeth are 

 to be seen in considerable numbers. 



The brain is situated at the beginning of the second sixth of the 

 body length, and is unusually clearly bilobed. The accompanying 

 groups of granules (Kornerhaufen) are clearly evident, but the 

 nerves, even in sections, are very indistinct, and accordingly no 

 attempt has been made to determine their distribution. 



The testes are ventrally distributed, but are not clearly united 

 with the sperm capillaries, nor have these last-named canals been 

 seen to unite with the vasa deferentia. Each vas deferens appears 

 to originate at about the level of the male aperture, from which point 

 each pursues its course directly forward as a convoluted, unbranched 

 duct until abreast of the posterior end of the pharyngeal pocket 

 where it bends suddenly inward and backward, finally opening 

 beside its fellow into the small seminal vesicle (PL XV, fig. 24) 

 located immediately posterior to the pharynx. The posterior 

 contracted end of the seminal vesicle is continuous with the immense, 

 spindle-shaped, granular gland whose walls are more or less con- 

 tinuous with the tissue of the penis. The slender penis is of an 

 unusual type in that it is curved upward (PL XVI, fig. 32) and opens 

 into a large cup-shaped cavity that is a dorsal continuation of the 

 antrum masculinum. Several chitin-like spurs project into this 

 space from its anterior wall. Ventrally the antrum is modified to 

 form a long, slender passage, which opens to the exterior ventral to 

 the above-described cavity. 



'he ovaries are in large measure dorsal, and in a few locations 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



have been seen to connect with what appears to be an anastomosing 

 series of canals. The uteri are very distinct in the cotype, and are 

 united anteriorly immediately in front of the pharynx. Relatively 

 small ova occur throughout their entire length, save in the immediate 

 neighborhood of the median egg canal. This last-named tube 

 (PI. XV, fig. 24) is continued posteriorly, and opens into the central 

 region of the accessory sac, which in this species consists of three 

 large pouches of equal size, the usual median one and an anterior 

 pair bordering the egg canal. Anteriorly, the egg canal expands into 

 the ample bursa, abundantly supplied with glands, that opens to 

 the exterior not far behind the male aperture. 



Planocera burchami sp. nov. 



This species is represented by five individuals collected in Monterey 

 Bay at a depth of ten fathoms. The color in alcohol was at first a 

 brownish-pink over the pharyngeal area, with a dark brown line 

 along the middle of the dorsal surface marking the position of the 

 main gut. From the pharyngeal area outward, the color gradually 

 changes to a creamy-pink in the neighborhood of the body margin. 

 The entire, dorsal surface is blotched with white pigment in varying 

 quantity, though the' spots are generally of small size. A small 

 non-pigmented area between the tentacles marks the position of 

 the brain. The ventral surface of the animal is unpigmented, and 

 through the somatic musculature the brain, pharynx, uteri and vasa 

 deferentia are clearly visible. 



All of the specimens are broadly oval in outline, and the largest 

 measured 14 by 11 mm. The mouth (PI. XV, fig. 27) is placed very 

 nearly in the centre of the ventral surface. The tentacles and brain 

 are situated one-fourth of the body length from the anterior margin, 

 the former appearing in preserved material as small, blunt, and 

 hemispherical projections. Circular groups of eyes (PI. XIII, fig. 9) 

 are ranged about their bases, and numerous ocelli are also scattered 

 irregularly between the tentacles. No eyes occur on the body 

 margin. 



The external mouth leads into the pharyngeal pocket that with 

 broad, ample lateral divisions extends at least two-fifths of the body 

 length. The main intestine, closely coinciding with the pharynx 

 in outline, gives rise to six or seven pairs of stout lateral branches 

 and an anterior offshoot, which immediately forms three sub- 

 divisions posterior to the brain. The ultimate divisions of the 

 intestine have never been seen to anastomose. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



The brain, about one-fourth the length of the body from the 

 anterior end of the animal, is oblong in transverse diameter, slightly 

 emarginate in front and behind, and gives rise to atrleast four pairs 

 of lateral nerve trunks. Over most of the body the larger nerve 

 trunks have been traced with unusual distinctness, and the results 

 show that the nervous system in general conforms to the usual type. 



The testes are ventral, and especially in an immature state their 

 arrangement suggests that they are united by sperm canals, forming 

 an anastomosing system, though, generally speaking, these capillaries 

 are invisible. The vasa deferentia, on each side of the body, form 

 a narrow, inverted-U-shaped loop whose distal end arises abreast of 

 the male aperture, the bend occurring opposite the mouth. Owing 

 to the rather poor preservation of the specimens, the details of the 

 male reproductive apparatus could not be determined completely. 

 The proximal ends of the vasa deferentia appear to terminate in 

 what seems to be a large antrum masculinum (PI. XVIII, fig. 44), 

 but no seminal vesicle could be seen nor could the penis be clearly 

 studied, although it is doubtless directed backward. The male sex 

 opening is well removed from the pharyngeal pocket. 



The ovaries are dorsal, and an anastomosing connecting system 

 of oviducts exists. The uteri extend forward, running parallel to 

 the inner limbs of the vasa deferentia, and thus pursue a course 

 directly forward to the tentacles to terminate immediately behind 

 them. Posteriorly, these canals pass dorsal to the vasa deferentia, 

 and lateral to the male aperture where they bend quickly inward 

 toward the median line. As in the case of the male reproductive 

 system, the details of the female reproductive complex could not be 

 ascertained with certainty. The uteri appear to lead directly into a 

 large antrum femininum, but there are also indications of an accessory 

 gland, though its relations were not established satisfactorily. The 

 female sex opening is immediately behind that of the male system. 



Two peculiar deep pits (PL XVIII, fig. 44, dp), one immediately 

 in front of the level of the male aperture and one immediately behind 

 the female aperture, occur on the dorsal surface connected by a 

 narrow, shallow groove. This appears in two of the largest indi- 

 viduals, but there is no clue to their function. 



Named in memory of Mr. Samuel Burcham, who undertook the 

 investigation of the polyclads of the California coast while a student 

 at Stanford University. This work, still in its early stages, was 

 terminated by his untimely death. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Genus STYLOCHOPLANA Stimpson, 1857. 



Stubby tentacles about one-fifth the body length from the anterior 



end. Male and female genital pore united and well removed from 



v posterior end of body. Eyes on basis of tentacles and in brain area. 



Stylochoplana gracilis sp. nov. 



This very small species is represented by eight individuals, all of 

 which were taken on the broad thalli of Macrocystis pyrifera, growing 

 in the vicinity of the wharf of the Del Monte Hotel, near Monterey. 

 It was most often found on surfaces encrusted with colonies of bryozoa. 

 The color of the dorsal surface is pale brownish-yellow or buff, 

 fading gradually as the margins of the body are approached. The 

 ventral surface is unpigmented, yet the tissues are so opaque that 

 little more than the digestive tract is visible in living material. 



The largest specimen measured 7.5 mm. in length by 3 mm. in 

 width. In every case the outline of the body is cuneate-oval (PI. XII, 

 fig. 2) with a broad semi-truncate anterior margin, while the posterior 

 end is usually pointed. The mouth is located slightly in front of 

 the middle of the body. The penis is directed backward. Finger- 

 like nuchal tentacles are placed at the end of the first body fifth. 

 The eyes (PL XIV, fig. 20) are arranged in two groups. The ten- 

 tacle pair, each consisting of about four medium-sized eyes, is confined 

 to the basal portion of the tentacles, while the cerebral clusters, 

 fairly well differentiated, comprise approximately fourteen eyes each. 



The mouth (PI. XII, fig. 2) opens into the pharynx, which is 

 considerably nearer the anterior than the posterior end, and covers 

 an extent equal to one-fourth the length of the animal. The pharynx 

 is slightly folded only, though the resulting inconspicuous lobes are 

 relatively numerous. The main gut is narrow, of moderate length, 

 and possesses usually seven pairs of intestinal branches with alter- 

 nating diverticula. The posterior pair terminate the gut immediately 

 behind the pharyngeal pocket, but anteriorly a median branch 

 continues forward across the brain. All of the branches immediately 

 anastomose and continue to do so until close to the margin of the 

 body. 



The brain holds a position at the commencement of the second 

 body sixth, but as the main nerve trunks to which it gives rise are 

 typical and their ramifications are very difficult to follow, no serious 

 attempt has been made to examine critically this particular system. 



The testes, for the most part ventrally placed, have not been seen 

 to connect with sperm capillaries, but the vasa deferentia, on the 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



other hand, arc clearly defined, convoluted, unbranched canals 

 continuous across the mid line immediately behind the female 

 reproductive pore. From this point they swing forward, diverging 

 until opposite the posterior end of the pharynx where 

 >end abruptly, and parallelling the outer trunks for a relatively 

 distance pass inward and forward to the anterior end of the 

 seminal vesicle. This last-named organ (PL XII, fig. 6) is of mod- 

 erate size, muscular, oval in form, and is placed far behind the pharynx. 

 Leaving it posteriorly the short ejaculatory duct immediately enters 

 (PL XV, fig. 26) what is doubtless the granular gland. The latter 

 is of an unusual type. It is round-oval in form and its walls, pro- 

 duced posteriorly, appear to be continuous with the tissue of the 

 penis. The penis is short, blunt, and projects into an ample antrum 

 masculinum. 



Generally speaking, the ovaries are dorsal, but no connections have 

 been traced between them and the uteri. These canals have their 

 origin opposite a point midway between the mouth and the front 

 end of the pharynx. From here they extend backward, closely 

 skirting the pharynx, at whose posterior extremity they approach 

 one another and close to the mid line continue their course, diverging 

 slightly in order to pass around the male reproductive pore where 

 they enter the common egg canal (PL XII, fig. 6). The latter is 

 short, and almost at once extends forward and ventrally to open 

 into the antrum femininum. Posteriorly, the egg canal is continuous 

 with the moderate-sized accessory sac (PL XV, fig. 26). The 

 female orifice is usually a short distance posterior to that of the 

 male, though two specimens possess a common opening. 



No histological examination was made of the reproductive system. 



Leptoplana rupicola sp. nov. 



This large species is represented by three individuals found adher- 

 ing to the under surface of large rocks near extreme low-tide mark a 

 short distance south of the entrance to Monterey Bay. The largest 

 specimen, 35 mm. in length by 15 mm. in width, is somewhat oval 

 in form (PL XII, fig. 3), having the anterior end more rounded than 

 the posterior. The color above is light with a pinkish or reddish 

 tinge very marked in one of the specimens. There is a dark brown 

 or brownish-red line along the mid line in the region of the 

 pharynx. At the margins of the body the color is usually very 

 Ventrally, pigment is absent and the reproductive system 

 the pharynx appear with considerable distinctness. A clear, 




1912.| NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



translucent spot marks the position of the brain. The mouth is 



situated almost exactly in the 



centre of the body. Tentacles • 



are lacking. The penis is placed 



about one-third of the distance 



from the mouth to the posterior .*** *.;, * • 



end, well behind the pharyngeal •«?'*%$ * ; **; 



/ 



:» 





• 



pocket, and is directed back- #">;•:♦ .VJ«* 



ward. The eyes (text fig. 2) are 1*i« •„ 'tf i' " !**!• "* 



arranged in four groups, a com- 

 paratively long pair of approxi- ./*J *•*• * »*••• ' >*^'l 



mately 30 eyes in each adjacent . /• ^Jg^ 



to the brain, and a small more . % 



rounded, laterally placed pair ** 



comprising about 30 eyes in each Fig. 2.— Eyes of Leptoplana rupicola. 

 cluster. No eyes occur elsewhere 

 in the body. 



The pharyngeal pocket, scarcely one-third the length of the body, 

 is supplied with numerous irregularly lobed diverticula, correspond- 

 ing in a general way to the folds of the pharynx. The main gut is 

 of about the same length as the pharynx, though is much more 

 slender in outline, and is provided with approximately fifteen pairs 

 of lateral intestinal branches whose subdivisions give no signs of 

 anastomosing. 



The brain is placed very nearly one-fourth of the body length 

 from the anterior margin of the body, and as described previously is 

 associated with two pairs of eye clusters. The ventral system of 

 nerves is fairly well defined and conforms to the usual type. 



The testes are ventral, and what appears in sections to be an 

 anastomosing system of sperm canals unites them with the vasa 

 deferentia. The last-named tubes (PI. XII, fig. 3) are continuous 

 across the mid line immediately posterior to the female reproductive 

 pore, and from this point extend forward, diverging somewhat, as 

 they become increasingly anastomosed. Opposite a point slightly 

 anterior to the level of the mouth this elaborate network bends upon 

 itself, skirts the margin of the pharynx, and not far behind the 

 posterior end of the gut each becomes reduced to a single duct which 

 sweeps inward and forward to fuse with its fellow in the mid line. 

 This median duct (PI. XV, fig. 22) proceeds in an anterior direction 

 for a short distance, then bends upon itself and immediately enters 

 the small but muscular seminal vesicle. Emerging from this at the 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



opposite end, the canal plunges at once into the comparatively large 

 granular gland (PL XIII, fig. 13), and after its exit pursues its 

 course to the base of the penis. A triangular muscular sheath sur- 

 rounds the seminal vesicle and the terminations of the vasa deferentia. 

 The copulatory apparatus is single and of the normal type. A large 

 antrum masculinum is present. 



As usual, the ovaries are dorsal and the uteri anteriorly are continu- 

 ous across the mid line (PL XII, fig. 3). Immediately posterior 

 to the male reproductive opening the uteri bend inward and meet to 

 form the median oviduct (PL XV, fig. 22) that exists in the form 

 of a relatively large canal, on one hand uniting with the long yet 

 ample accessory gland and in the other direction with the spacious 

 shell gland chamber and the antrum femininum. The opening to 

 the exterior is close to that of the male and immediately in front of 

 the accessory gland. 



Leptoplana timida sp. nov. 



This species is evidently rare as it is represented by only two 

 individuals taken along the southern shore of Monterey Bay. The 

 color of the dorsal surface is clear, translucent white, dotted more or 

 less uniformly with minute dark red spots. In the central regions 

 of the body these pigment spots are closely grouped to form a trans- 

 verse, saddle-shaped blotch that becomes especially conspicuous 

 when the animal is in a contracted condition. On the ventral 

 surface of the body pigment is lacking, and through the white, 

 semi-transparent somatic muscles the pharynx and vasa deferentia 

 may be distinctly seen in living specimens. 



The body is broadly oval in shape (PL XII, fig. 1), blunt ante- 

 riorly, and the type specimen measures 23 mm. in length by 12 mm. 



in breadth. The mouth is situated a 

 \ .; • *. " very short distance posterior to the. 



* \\ ',. centre of the body. Tentacles are 



■ J i"' lacking. The penis is located imme- 



0jfyr i ** ; * »*•£ ** diately behind the pharyngeal pocket 



one-fourth of the length of the body 



i- o r. ,, * . r from the posterior end and is directed 



*ig. 6— Eyes and brain of Lepto- ,. , j an. n. £ o\ 



plana timida. backward. The eyes (text fig. 3) are 



arranged as usual in four clusters, the 



cerebral consisting of about 40 in each on both sides of the brain, 



while the tentacle groups, each comprising 12 comparatively large 



irregular ocelli, are more laterally placed. No eyes occur on the 



margins of the body. 




1912.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



The pharyngeal sheath (PL XII, fig. 1) is of nearly half the body 

 length and is provided with broad, irregularly lobed branches. 

 Owing to the compression of the animal during its fixation, the main 

 intestine cannot be clearly differentiated from the pharynx, but it 

 apparently exists as an elongated organ extending the full length of 

 the pharynx posteriorly and at least as far as the brain anteriorly. 

 Approximately sixteen pairs of lateral branches have been distin- 

 guished which appear to finally anastomose, though of this we cannot 

 be positive. 



The brain is situated one-third of the distance from the mouth to 

 the anterior end of the body, but neither it nor the nerves originating 

 from it present any noteworthy features. 



The testes are placed in the ventral half of the body, and although 

 no anastomosing system of sperm canals could be distinguished, the 

 position of the male reproductive glands suggests that one probably 

 exists. The vasa deferentia (PL XII, fig. 1) present the form of a 

 heart-shaped loop, since they are continuous across the mid line 

 immediately behind the female aperture, from whence they extend 

 anteriorly and laterally to arch inward ventral to the uteri opposite 

 a point not far behind the mouth. They then bend backward and 

 inward and, fusing, unite with the seminal vesicle (PL XIII, fig. 12), 

 surrounded by an ellipsoid muscle sheath, situated immediately 

 behind the posterior end of the pharynx. Emerging from this organ, 

 the canal immediately pierces the spherical granular gland and 

 enters the base of the penis. This last-named organ is unusually 

 thick at its base in proportion to its length, and in the type specimen 

 the opening to the exterior is opposite to its base. 



The ovaries are dorsal and are connected with the uterus by an 

 anastomosing system of capillaries. The uteri entirely surround 

 the pharj-nx since they are continuous across the mid line anteriorly. 

 Posterior to the penis, these canals swing inward and unite to form 

 the single, median egg canal (PL XIII, fig. 12) that on one hand 

 expands to form the spacious antrum femininum and in the other 

 direction communicates with the accessory gland, a long, roomy sac 

 extending well behind the female reproductive pore. 



Leptoplana saxicola sp. nov. 



This small flatworm is represented by numerous individuals taken 

 at a point a few miles south of the entrance to Monterey Bay. It 

 occurs usually in masses of algae (Cladophora) in tide pools of such 

 elevation that the water is renewed only during rough weather. 

 Dorsally the ground color varies from yellowish to grayish-brown. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



A light stripe generally occupies the area immediately above the 

 main gut which may be bordered laterally by a brownish band. 

 When this last-named variation occurs, light streaks free from pig- 

 •adiate from it to the .margins of the body. A clear spot 

 lly mark? the position of the brain. On the ventral surface 

 pigment is entirely lacking or is present in very slight amounts, so 

 that the more important organs may be seen through the translucent 

 body wall with considerable distinctness. 



The largest specimen measured 11 mm. in length by 5 mm. in 

 width, and is narrowly elliptical in outline (PI. XII, fig. 4). The 

 mouth is situated about one-third of the length of the body from the 

 posterior end of the animal. The penis is directed backward. Both 

 cerebral and tentacle eyes (PI. XIV, fig. 19) occur associated with 

 the brain; none exist on the margins of the body. The tentacle 

 clusters form small groups lateral to the brain, each consisting of 

 about ten medium-sized eyes. The cerebral groups are not sharply 

 differentiated from the others, but in a general way they present a 

 linear arrangement on either side of the mid line bordering the 

 brain and anteriorly expand to form loose clusters in front of the 

 brain. There are approximately 25 small eyes in each of these 

 groups. 



The most conspicuous feature of the digestive system is the 

 posterior position of the pharynx (PI. XII, fig. 4) and external mouth. 

 The first-named organ is about two-fifths the length of the body and 

 is provided with five or six folds of moderate size on each side. The 

 inner mouth is some distance anterior to the true mouth. The 

 main gut is long, rather narrow, and possesses six or seven pairs of 

 lateral intestinal branches, with occasional alternating shorter 

 diverticula, and an anterior and posterior outgrowth along the mid 

 line. Anastomosing immediately commences, resulting in a highly 

 complicated intestinal network. Varying quantities of diatoms 

 and sponge spicules were generally present in the digestive tract. 



In this species the nervous system appears with unusual distinct- 

 ness and has accordingly received more than usual study. The 

 ventral system (PL XIV, fig. 21) conforms closely to the type found 

 to occur in polyclads generally, but in addition to this there is what 

 appears to be an independent network extending over the entire 

 i 1< >rsal surface of the body. It comprises three pairs of main branches, 

 arising from the lateral and anterior surfaces of the brain, that after 



viding repeatedly extend to the margins of the body. Along the 

 i the region of the pharynx, these delicate fibres become 




1912. S NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



lost to sight owing to the opacity of the animal, but as they appear 

 here and there in sections it is probable that the network spreads 

 over the entire dorsal surface of the body. The average size of the 

 component nerve bundles is less than those of the ventral side, and 

 the mesh work is considerably more open; otherwise there are no 

 especially noteworthy features not represented in the figures. 



Heath ('07) has described a dorsal nervous system, conforming 

 to the same general plan, in Planocera hawaiiensis, and it is known 

 to exist in the trematodes (cf. Heath '02). Lang has theoretically 

 related the ctenophores and the flatworms on the basis of several 

 deep-seated resemblances, appearing especially in the course of the 

 embryological development. In the ctenophores there is, as is well 

 known, a nervous system fashioned on the quadriradial plan. In 

 the chiton larva there are likewise indications that in the early stages 

 the central nervous system is constructed upon essentially the .same 

 plan. In the chiton the dorsal limbs of the cross-shaped fundament 

 disappear apparently without becoming functional, but it is possible, 

 though by no means proven conclusively, that they persist in the 

 polyclads and develop into the network of the dorsal side of the body. 



The testes, ventral as usual, are united by delicate sperm capilla- 

 ries with the convoluted but unbranched vasa deferentia (PL XII, 

 fig. 4), which present the form of an inverted-U-shaped loop. The 

 outer limb of each loop passes backward to fuse with its mate imme- 

 diately behind the female reproductive pore. The inner trunk 

 extends inward and backward and unites with its fellow in the mid 

 line to form a short common duct (PL XVI, fig. 30), which at once 

 enters the posterior end of the large, elliptical seminal vesicle situated 

 close behind the pharynx. Leaving the seminal vesicle anteriorly, 

 the sperm canal, functioning as a ductus ejaculatorius, turns direct ly 

 backward and, piercing longitudinally the very large, oval granular 

 gland, immediately enters the base of the penis. This last-named 

 organ in this species is unusually long and attenuate, and is con- 

 tained in a similarly slender sheathing chamber at whose apex the 

 external pore is located. 



The ovaries are dorsal and are united by tubes, very indistinct 

 except during the egg-laying season, that in turn connect with the 

 uteri. These last-mentioned canals meet across the mid line ante- 

 riorly (PL XII, fig. 4) not far from the posterior border of the brain 

 and, arc-like, extend backward with occasional anastomoses in some 

 individuals, if not in all. In some cases well-deVeloped outpouchings 

 of the uteri occur, especially in the region of the brain and at a point 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



about opposite the mouth. Proximally, the uteri converge immedi- 

 ately behind the male reproductive opening and enter the short, 

 stout egg canal (PI. XVI, fig. 30) that in turn communicates with a 

 short yet spacious accessory sac situated in several instances anterior 

 to the external opening. Posteriorly, the egg canal expands into 

 the antrum femininum which communicates exteriorly by means 

 of a pore very close to that of the male reproductive system. In a 

 few individuals, young and old, there is a common reproductive 

 opening. 



Although this is a small species, the ova are the largest that have 

 been observed by us. In one case measurements showed the diameter 

 of an ovum to be one-seventh the width of the body, or more accur- 

 ately stated, its diameter was 0.61 mm. About opposite the seminal 

 vesicle, and within the loops of the vasa deferentia, there are to be 

 seen a pair of small gland-like bodies (PI. XVI, figs. 30, 85) whose 

 connections have not been traced. 



Leptoplana californica Plehn. 



Broad oval. Length 12 mm., breadth 9 mm., broader in front 

 than behind. Colorless in alcohol. Pharyngeal pocket central, 

 in length equal to one-half that of the animal, with seven pairs of 

 average-sized lateral diverticula, containing the sharply folded 

 pharynx. Tentacle eye clusters small, elliptical, diverging anteriorly ; 

 cerebral groups longer and narrower, converging anteriorly, with a 

 single large eye terminating each in front. Common sex opening 

 near posterior end of body, leading on one hand into an ample bursa 

 copulatrix and posteriorly into a large accessory chamber; uteri, 

 surrounding the pharynx, lead to a well-developed antrum femininum ; 

 penis with a long, sharp and flexible stylet; a granular gland and 

 seminal vesicle on direct line to union of vasa deferentia. 



Type locality, Monterey Bay, Calif., at a depth of 30-40 meters. 

 Two specimens in our collection agree with the foregoing description. 



Leptoplana inquieta sp. nov. 



Four species represent this species captured about the low-tide 

 limit among the rocks, and in one case among the rhizoids of Macro- 

 cystis in Monterey Bay. It is a small, restless species, crawling 

 rapidly when disturbed, but never swimming. Dorsally the color 

 is cleai-, translucent white, dotted more or less uniformly with small 

 dark red pigment spots. Ventrally it is unpigmented, and the- 

 pharynx and vasa deferentia show faintly through the body wall. 



The largest specimen is broadly oval in form (PI. XIII, fig. 8) 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 471 



with the anterior end broadly rounded or even truncate, while the 

 posterior extremity is narrowed. It measures 9 mm. in length by 

 5 mm. in width. The mouth is placed slightly behind the centre of 

 the body. The penis is directed backward. Nuchal and marginal 

 tentacles are wanting. Eyes occur in four distinct clusters (PI. 

 XVIII, fig. 43), the tentacle pair, each consisting of seven or eight 

 large ocelli, and a pair of cerebral groups. The last-named com- 

 prise approximately thirty relatively small eyes in each set, forming 

 an elongated patch bordering the brain. No eyes occur on the 

 margins of the body. 



The digestive system (PL XIII, fig. 8) presents no especially novel 

 features. The external mouth leads into a considerably folded 

 pharynx whose length is between one-third and one-half that of the 

 body. Laterally it is produced into seven pairs of lateral diverticula. 

 Directly dorsal to the outer mouth the opening from the pharynx 

 leads into the mid-gut, which in turn possesses seven pairs of lateral 

 intestinal branches together with an anterior offshoot leading forward 

 across the brain. This system ramifies chiefly by means of simple 

 branching, but occasional anastomoses were seen, especially in the 

 neighborhood of the pharynx. 



The brain occupies a position about one-fifth the length of the 

 animal from the anterior end of the body. Neither it nor the main 

 nerves are distinct, and accordingly have not been studied to any 

 considerable extent, though sufficiently to decide that all conform 

 to the customary type. 



The testes are rather uniformly distributed, and the sperm canals 

 leading from them appear to form an anastomosing system. The 

 vasa deferentia are likewise delicate and somewhat difficult to follow, 

 though their general features appear with considerable distinctness. 

 From the seminal vesicle (PI. XIII, fig. 8) each swings outward and 

 forward, becoming somewhat anastomosed, and when they have 

 reached points lateral to the uteri and midway between the mouth 

 and the posterior end of the pharynx they turn sharply backward, 

 pass inward toward the mid line and fuse immediately behind the 

 pharynx. The remaining features of the male reproductive system 

 (PL XIII, fig. 14) are relatively simple. From the seminal vesicle, 

 which is adjacent to the posterior end of the pharynx, the ejaculatory 

 duct pursues a short and direct course posteriorly to the penis. 

 This last-named organ is enclosed within a spherical, muscular 

 sheath from which a comparatively long, loop-shaped tube leads to 

 the common reproductive pore. 

 31 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



The ovaries are dorsally placed, and their ducts, usually invisible, 

 lead to the uteri which surround the pharynx, since they are ante- 

 riorly continuous across the mid line. Skirting the pharyngeal folds, 

 the uteri extend backward (PL XIII, fig. 8) and fuse in the mid line, 

 immediately posterior to the penis, to form the egg canal. This 

 median canal is continuous posteriorly with the ample accessory 

 sac (PI. XIII. fig. 14), and in the opposite direction it enlarges into 

 the thick-walled bursa copulatrix which in turn leads to the common 

 opening. 



It is interesting to note in this connection the presence of large 

 quantities of spermatozoa, in two individuals, stored in the accessory 

 gland. That it is not an accidental condition is evidenced by the 

 fact that in many places sperms were attached in dense masses to 

 the epithelial lining. This is the only species in which we have found 

 male reproductive elements in the accessory gland, and accordingly 

 we are not prepared to make any sweeping generalizations, but 

 appearances lead us to the belief that in this species the accessory 

 gland functions, at least in part, as a seminal receptacle. 

 Leptoplana maculosa Stimpson. 



Oblong-ovate; above pale gray with a few yellow spots, median 

 spots obscure, margin hyaline. Primary eye clusters in two ovate 

 spots, seven in each; groups placed at the extremities of the hyaline, 

 transverse, arcuate areola. Two small groups of secondary eyes 

 situated before the middle of the areola; secondary eyes four to six, 

 dispersed in the areola between the primary eyes. Length 0.8, 

 breadth 0.4 inch. 



In the Bay of San Francisco, along the shore under stones in 

 marshy places. (Free translation.) 



Although we have sought for this flatworm in the type locality 

 and in Monterey Bay, we have discovered no specimens that can 

 with certainty be identified as this species. 



Genus PHYLLOPLANA Laidlaw, 1903. 



Leptoplanoid with flattened, leaf-like body. A pair of long muscu- 

 lar vesiculse seminales, which lie parallel to the median ductus 

 ejaculatorius and penis and receive the vasa deferentia of either 

 side, respectively, at their hinder ends. 



Phylloplana litoricola sp. nov. 



This species is represented by nine individuals, living on the 

 under surface of stones below the medium-tide mark along the southern 

 shore of Monterey Bay. It is fairly active and capable of swimming 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 473 



actively for short distances. Dorsally the color is dark, marbled 

 brownish-gray varying to almost black. A pale yellow streak 

 extends along the median line in the region of the pharynx. This 

 is bordered on each side by a dark, brownish line of similar length, 

 which fades into the ground color. On the ventral surface of the 

 animal pigment is lacking, the tissues appearing clear white and of 

 such thickness that the internal organs are invisible in living material. 



The largest specimen is long oval (PI. XII, fig. 7) in outline and 

 measures 19 mm. in length by 9 mm. in width. The penis is directed 

 backward. Four distinct eye clusters (PI. XVIII, fig. 42) occur 

 associated with the brain, an elongated pair composed of small 

 eyes on each side of the brain, and a more or less circular pair com- 

 prising larger ocelli located slightly behind the level of the brain. 



The mouth, approximately central, opens into the much-folded 

 pharynx (PI. XII, fig. 7) that is nearly half as long as the body. 

 A short distance anterior to the external mouth the inner mouth 

 leads into the spacious and much elongated main gut provided 

 usually with fourteen pairs of variously shaped intestinal branches. 

 These last-named subdivisions branch dichotomously and give no 

 evidence of forming an anastomosing system. 



The brain is located about one-sixth of the body length from the 

 anterior end of the animal, but as neither it nor the branches arising 

 from it are distinct, no attempt has been made to study this system 

 in detail. 



As usual the testes are ventral and are thickly distributed, espe- 

 cially near the middle of the body. The vasa deferentia form a 

 U-shaped loop (PI. XII, fig. 7), the bow of which passes immediately 

 behind the female reproductive pore, while anteriorly the two limbs 

 turn sharply inward, and coursing parallel to the outer arms for half 

 their length again bend quickly, and after pursuing an anterior 

 course for a short distance expand to form two seminal vesicles 

 (PI. XV, fig. 23). These converge into a common duct., the ductus 

 ejaculatorius, that after 

 piercing the granular ^ g £ 



gland passes into the 

 base of the penis. This 

 latter organ is of the 

 usual type, directed 

 backward and opens to 



the exterior at a point v - . T .. ,. , ,. ,, , .. , 



1 big. 4. — Longitudinal section through central re- 



about one-fifth the body productive apparatus of Phylloplana litoricola. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



length from the posterior end of the body. There is a fair-sized 

 antrum masculinum. 



The ovaries are dorsal and communicate with the uteri by an 

 anastomosing system of connecting tubules. The uteri, fused in 

 the mid line anteriorly (PI. XII, fig. 7), pass backward, skirting the 

 margin of the pharynx, and then coursing parallel to the vasa defer- 

 entia posteriorly meet in the mid line. Here they enter the duct 

 leading forward from the accessory gland (PI. XV, fig. 23), and on 

 the other hand pursue a somewhat tortuous course to expand into 

 the antrum femininum, that opens to the exterior immediately in 

 front of the posterior loop of the vasa deferentia. About opposite 

 the granular gland of the male system the uteri become distended to 

 form spindle-shaped glands, which may correspond to uterus glands 

 in other species. 



Two specimens were kept in captivity for a few days early in 

 June, and deposited several hundred eggs at the average rate of one 

 every forty-five seconds. 



Tribus COTYLEA. 



With sucking disc. Mouth in middle of the body or anterior to it. 

 Copulatory apparatus in the anterior end of the body. Without 

 tentacles or with marginal tentacles. 



Family PSEUDOCERIDiE Lang, 1884. 



Body oval or elliptical with fold-like marginal tentacles. Mouth 

 in middle of anterior half of body. Pharynx collar-like. Main gut 

 long and spacious. Intestinal branches numerous and anastomosing. 

 Eyes in brain area and tentacles. 



LICHENIPLA.NA gen. nov. 



Small papillae on dorsal surface. Gut branches very numerous. 

 Copulatory apparatus single. 



Licheniplana lepida sp. nov. 



This species is represented by four individuals collected on the 

 under surface of stones on the southern shore of Monterey Bay. 

 The largest specimen is broad oval in outline (PI. XIV, fig. 17) and 

 measures 12 mm. in length by 8 mm. in width. It is a very delicate 

 species, living in crevices of the rocks or similar places of conceal- 

 ment, and when disturbed is exceptionally slow in its movements. 

 Dorsally the ground color is white, gray, or lead color with occasional 

 small pinkish or dark red pigment spots. The ventral surface is 

 unpigmentod. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



475 



•i 





The mouth (PI. XV, fig. 17) is situated between one-iourth and 

 one-fifth of the length of the body from the anterior end. The 

 ventral sucker is placed approximately three-sevenths of the body 

 length from the posterior end. The penis is between one-third and 

 one-fourth of the length of the animal from the anterior margin, 

 immediately behind the pharynx, 

 and is directed forward. Nuchal 

 tentacles are lacking, while the 

 marginal tentacles appear as some- 

 what thickened flaps. Eyes, indefi- 

 nitely grouped into two clusters 

 (text fig. 5), occur between the 

 tentacles, while a second pair of 

 about fifteen eyes each and more 

 clearly differentiated occupy the 

 brain area. It is interesting to 

 note that dorsal papillae (PI. XIII, 

 fig. 11), of small size but clearly 

 defined, exist in this species, being 

 especially abundant in the anterior 

 part of the body. 



The mouth (PI. XV, fig. 17) 



Opens into the much-folded pharynx Fig . 5.— Brain and tentacle eyes of 

 which is between one-sixth and Ticheniplana lepida. 



one-seventh as long as the body. 



Somewhat behind the external mouth the inner mouth leads to the 

 main chamber of the gut, a long and spacious structure provided 

 with approximately fifty pairs of lateral branches. These last- 

 named subdivisions branch frequently and form a highly anastomos- 

 ing system. 



The brain is situated half-way between the anterior end of the 

 body and the mouth, but the nerves to which it gives rise are very 

 indistinct and little attempt has been made for this reason to work 

 out the system in detail. 



The testes are ventral and rather uniformly distributed. There 

 is some evidence that these organs are connected by an anastomosing 

 system of sperm capillaries, which eventually fuse to form the vasa 

 deferentia (PI. XV, fig. 17), relatively large, convoluted canals 

 extending along the margins of the gut throughout most of its 

 length. They arch inward to enter the seminal vesicle (PI. XVII, 

 fig. 36), almost spherical in form, without the formation of a common 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



•canal. The ductus leaves the anterior end of the seminal vesicle, 

 bends backward, then sharply downward and forward again to enter 

 the base of the short, conical penis. Near the base of the penis 

 this canal is joined by' a very short duct leading from the granular 

 gland, a small oval body that to a certain extent occupies a space 

 between the penis and the seminal vesicle. 



The ovaries are dorsal and connect with the uteri by means of 

 ducts that very plainly anastomose. The uteri (PL XV, fig. 17) 

 have been traced backward to a point about opposite the end of the 

 main gut and forward to a point opposite the mouth. At the level 

 of the female reproductive pore the uteri converge (PL XVII, fig. 36) 

 and unite with a short median canal, the vagina, which leads 

 anteriorly to the exterior at a point immediately posterior to the 

 seminal vesicle. 



Family ETJRYLEPTIDiE Lang, 1884. 



Body oval or elliptical, with or without solid marginal tentacles. 

 Mouth near anterior end of body. Pharynx tubular. Main gut, 

 long and narrow. Male apparatus simple. Eyes in brain region 

 and tentacles. 



Genus STYLOSTOMUM Lang, 1884. 



Body smooth. Mouth and male sex pore communicating with a 

 common atrium. Pharynx cylindrical. Gut pouches not anasto- 

 mosing. Anterior median gut branch lacking in region of pharyngeal 

 pouch. Female sex apparatus ventral to base of pharyngeal pouch. 

 Tentacles very rudimentary. 



Stylostomum lentum sp. nov. 



This species is represented by six individuals taken near Monterey, 

 Calif., at low-tide level. It is a sluggish animal and seemingly 

 incapable of swimming. The ground color ©f the dorsal surface is 

 orange. A somewhat darker shade occurs along the mid line from 

 the eyes to the posterior end of the mid gut, but laterally this patch 

 becomes lighter and near the margin of the body sends out ray-like 

 expansions that alternate with irregular streaks of bright yellow. 

 Minute white specks are scattered over the entire dorsal surface. 



The largest specimen measured 9 mm. in length by 5 mm. in width, 



and was elliptical in outline (PL XIII, fig. 16). The mouth is 



situated immediately behind the brain about one-tenth of the length 



of the body from the anterior end and, as in other species of the genus, 



lso as the male reproductive opening. The penis is directed 



Short, blunt, and somewhat rudimentary tentacles (PL 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



XVIII, fig. 40) occur on the anterior margin with a cluster of approxi- 

 mately eighty small eyes at the base of each. The cerebral eyes 

 form two rather long, closely approximated groups, with about fifty 

 medium-sized ocelli in each, located chiefly posterior to the brain. 



In the midst of the cerebral groups of eyes the mouth (PI. XIII, 

 fig. 16) occurs and leads into a long, spacious canal which may be 

 considered as a portion of the pharyngeal cavity. The unfolded 

 pharynx is tubular in form, but anteriorly it tapers to a fairly acute 

 point. In length it equals about one-seventh that of the animal. 

 Posteriorly it opens into a main gut of average size that usually 

 gives rise to four pairs of lateral branches, the most posterior of 

 which is some distance from the hinder end of the gut, thus forming 

 a terminal blind sac. The intestinal branches do not anastomose, 

 nor are the secondary branches numerous. 



The brain holds a position one-twelfth the body length from the 

 anterior end of the body, but owing to their indistinctness the course 

 of the nerves, to which it gives rise, has not been determined. 



In this species the testes, ventral in position, are clearly defined, 

 but the sperm canals are totally invisible. The vasa deferentia 

 are likewise somewhat ill-defined, but may be seen (PI. XIII, fig. 16) 

 in favorable specimens to arise about opposite the posterior end of 

 the pharyngeal chamber and to extend anteriorly to a point not far 

 behind the level of the mouth. Here they turn abruptly backward 

 and inward to enter the seminal vesicle (PI. XVII, fig. 37) at its 

 antero-ventral extremity. The seminal vesicle is more or less 

 heart-shaped, and is placed immediately in front of the pharynx 

 and ventral to the tube leading from the pharyngeal cavity to the 

 external mouth. Leaving the seminal vesicle anteriorly, the ejacu- 

 latory duct makes its way to the base of the penis where it receives 

 a short duct from the granular gland. This last-named organ is 

 small, spherical, and is located immediately in front of the seminal 

 vesicle. The penis is very short, in some specimens rather abruptly 

 pointed, and it opens into a chamber contained within the penis 

 sheath, which in turn opens into the antrum masculinum. This 

 last-named space communicates with the mouth. 



The ovaries contain, during the breeding season, an unusually 

 large number of ova and are accordingly very distinct, though the 

 ducts connecting them with the uteri are invisible except occasionally 

 in sections. The uteri (PI. XIII, fig. 16) originate approximately 

 half the distance from the ventral sucker to the posterior end of the 

 main gut. From this point, where apparently they do not fuse 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



across the mid line, they extend forward skirting the gut as un- 

 branched, swollen chambers often filled with a comparatively large 

 number of ova. Opposite the posterior end of the pharyngeal 

 pocket they bend inward and unite under the base of the pharynx. 

 The resulting median duct is short and proceeds anteriorly and 

 ventrally to the ample shell chamber which receives the ductules 

 from many filiform glands (PL XVIII, fig. 37). Ventral to this 

 point is the moderate antrum which opens to the exterior ventral 

 to the base of the pharynx. Dorsal to the shell chamber a small 

 zone of glandular tissue, staining darkly in Delafield's hematoxylin, 

 surrounds the egg canal. What its function is it is impossible to 

 determine. No uterus glands were observed in any of the whole 

 mounts or sections, though considerable pains were taken to deter- 

 mine this point. 



Genus ACEROS Long, 1884. 



Body smooth. Mouth immediately behind the brain. Pharynx 

 cylindrical. About 5 pairs of gut branches. Male sex pore imme- 

 diately behind the mouth; female near hinder end of pharyngeal 

 pouch. Tentacles lacking. 



Aceros langi sp. nov. 



A single representative of this species was taken on the southern 

 shore of Monterey Bay, but concerning its habits or habitat we are 

 without information. Its form in life was probably elliptical and 

 measures 8 mm. in length by 6 in width. The ventral sucker 

 (PI. XII, fig. 5) is slightly posterior to the middle of the body. The 

 anterior margin of the animal was slightly injured which prevents 

 the precise determination of the exact location of the mouth with 



reference to it. However, the mouth 



may safely be said to be very close 



to the anterior end of the bod v. 



/- _ The penis is directed forward. 



t ' There are no nuchal tentacles; 



+ % • marginal tentacles may have existed 



-# *** " • *•*• on the damaged portion, though no 



% * "" •• b ' trace of them now remains. About 



• •• 



• *• • •" fifty large eyes (text fig. 6) overlie 



*• * the brain area that are roughly 



divided into two irregular clusters. 

 -Eyes of Aceros langi. No eyes have been seen on other 



regions of the body. 

 The mouth (PI. XVII, fig. 38) opens into the cylindrical pharyn- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



geal pocket, which in the present instance contains a long and slender 

 proboscis, protruded a short distance beyond the mouth opening. 

 Posteriorly the pharynx leads into the capacious main gut which 

 gives rise to five pairs of lateral intestinal branches together with an 

 anterior terminal one. At the outset all of these branches are 

 comparatively large and of fairly even caliber, but they soon become 

 transformed into a branching, non-anastomosing system of rather 

 narrow twigs. The sucker underlies the gut between the fourth 

 and fifth pairs of lateral branches. Beyond the last pair the gut 

 extends posteriorly to a point close to the posterior end of the body. 



The brain is situated directly over the mouth, but as the nerves 

 arising from it are seen with much difficulty, no serious attempt has 

 been made to determine their distribution. 



The testes are rather uniformly distributed ventrally, but the 

 capillaries leading from them are invisible in the present specimen. 

 The vasa deferentia (PI. XII, fig. 5) arise at the end of the first body 

 third, midway between the gut and the margin of the body, and 

 converge anteriorly as simple though much swollen and convoluted 

 ducts. Opposite the middle of the pharyngeal pocket they pass 

 inward toward the mid line to fuse mesally at the point where the 

 oval seminal vesicle is located. From this last-named organ a short 

 ejaculatory duct extends anteriorly to the penis situated immediately 

 behind the mouth. The male reproductive pore could not be deter- 

 mined with absolute certainty. Certain features suggest that it 

 opens into the mouth, and on the other hand there are faint indica- 

 tions that it is situated immediately behind the mouth, yet inde- 

 pendent of it. A granular gland was not distinguished. 



The ovaries are dorsal. The uteri (PI. XVII, fig. 38), originating 

 at the level of the sucker, are so greatly inflated by multitudes of 

 eggs that they exceed the main gut in caliber. Between the second 

 and third pairs of gut branches the uteri fuse and send forward a 

 short, slender duct, the vagina, which communicates with the exterior 

 close to the posterior end of the pharyngeal pocket. 



Contrary to the rule, no uterus glands could be detected where, 

 according to Lang, one pair should exist. 



ANCILIPLANA gen. nov. 



Body broadly elliptical. Tentacles large, without eyes; cerebral 

 eyes in two distinct groups. Pharynx small; main gut slender 

 with 8 pairs of branches, highly anastomosed. Vasa deferentia 

 and uteri anastomosed. No uterus glands. 




480 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



Fig. 7. — Eyes and tentacles of 

 Anciliplana graffi. 



Anoiliplana graffi op. nov. 



Several specimens of this species were collected in Monterey Bay 



and along the adjoining coast. The largest specimen is broad oval 



in outline and measures 18 mm. in length by 13 in greatest width. 



olor notes were obtained. The ventral sucker is slightly anterior 



to the middle of the body. The mouth is placed one-sixth the length 



of the animal from the anterior 

 margin. The penis is directed forward. 

 The tentacles are large, broadly tri- 

 angular outgrowths of the anterior 

 margin of the body extending pos- 

 terior to the brain. Small eyes 

 (text fig. 7) occur above the brain in 

 two imperfectly separated groups, 

 No eyes occur on or about the ten- 

 tacles. 



The pharynx (PI. XVII, fig. 35), 



more or less conical in form, leads into 



the main gut which communicates in 



turn with an average of eight pairs of 



intestinal branches. These plainly anastomose at the outset and 



probably continue to do so even to the margins of the body. 



The brain is located immediately in front of the pharyngeal pocket, 

 but other details of the nervous system have not been determined. 

 The testes are ventrally disposed, and clearly defined sperm capil- 

 laries are totally invisible in cleared specimens. The vasa deferentia 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 35) first appear opposite a point slightly behind the 

 sucker. Their many ramifications finally converge anteriorly to 

 form the large single ducts (PI. XVI, fig. 31) which bend sharply 

 backward behind the penis and curve inward to form a semicircular 

 transverse canal. From the centre of this arch a very short duct 

 pursues a direct course to the large and spherical seminal vesicle. 

 The ejaculatory duct leaves the vesicle at the opposite side and soon 

 enters* the base of the penis. The granular gland, communicating 

 with this canal at the base of the penis, is elliptical in outline and 

 lies between the penis and the seminal vesicle. 



The ovaries are dorsal and the uteri, which plainly anastomose 

 (PI. XVII, fig. 35) from the first, probably connect with the former 

 by means of a system of anastomosing capillaries. The web-like 

 uteri extend lateral to the main gut throughout the greater part of 

 its course, and posterior to the seminal vesicle converge (PI. XVI, 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



481 



fig. 31) to form the single short, female duct, the vagina, which opens 

 to the exterior immediately behind the arc of the vasa deferentia. 



Genus EURYLEPTA Ehrenberg, 1831. 



Pharynx cylindrical, about 5 pairs of intestinal branches without 

 anastomoses. Male sex opening beneath base of pharynx. 



Eurylepta aurantiaca sp. nov. 



This species is fairly common in Monterey Bay and the neighboring 

 coast where it occurs under stones or crawling along the bottom in 

 comparatively shallow water. It is sluggish in its movements and 

 clings most tenaciously when an attempt is made to remove it. 

 The largest specimen is broadly oval in outline (PI. XIV, fig. 18) 

 and measures 15 mm. in length by 10 mm. greatest diameter. Gen- 

 erally speaking, the color of the dorsal surface is yellowish-pink or 

 salmon tint except along the mid line Avhere a bright pink streak 

 extends from the eyes to the posterior end of the main gut. Minute 

 Avhite specks are uniformly distributed over the entire dorsal surface. 

 On the ventral side of the animal pigment is lacking, and the opaque, 

 white somatic muscles are of such thickness that they wholly obscure 

 all of the internal organs. 



The ventral sucker is slightly behind the middle of the body. The 

 mouth (PL XIV, fig. 18) is placed somewhat less than one-sixth the 

 length of the body from the anterior margin of the body. The 

 penis is directed forward. 

 Nuchal tentacles are lacking, 

 and the marginal tentacles 

 (text fig. 8) are rather short, 

 stout outgrowths that, when 

 the animal is at rest, are 

 folded back on the dorsal 

 surface. Numerous eyes are 

 distributed on the tentacles 

 in two distinct clusters with 

 approximately 70 eyes in each, 

 while two fairly well-defined 

 oval groups, each with about 

 50 ocelli, occur dorsal to the 

 brain. 



The mouth (PI. XIV, fig. 18) ' 



opens into a spacious pharynx, Fig. 8. — Eyes of Eurylepla aurantiaca. 

 appearing like an inverted 

 shield in outline, with a length equalling one-sixth that of the body 






V 



482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Posteriorly the pharyngeal cavity communicates with the spacious 

 chamber of the main gut which extends backward close to the 

 posterior end of the animal, giving rise to seven or eight pairs of 

 intestinal branches during its course. These last-named structures 

 are at first of even caliber, but soon become swollen and greatly 

 constricted, giving the impression of a dichotomously arranged 

 system of large spherical vesicles. 



The brain is situated immediately in front of the pharynx, but 

 otherwise the details of the nervous system have not been determined 

 clearly. 



The testes are ventral and in some cases are united by anasto- 

 mosing sperm capillaries (PI. XIV, fig. 18) that, on the other hand, 

 unite with the vasa deferentia. The latter originate at the level 

 of the sucker, and, pursuing a tortuous course as they proceed 

 anteriorly, they finally swing inward at a point not far behind the 

 pharyngeal pocket. Here they unite (PI. XVII, fig. 34) and as single 

 tube proceed anteriorly into the base of the penis. At the same 

 point where the penis receives this median duct it also communicates 

 with the outlet of the ample and elliptical granular gland. There 

 is no seminal vesicle. The penis is moderately thin walled and inflated 

 and is guarded by a closely enveloping sheath which in turn lies at 

 the base of an antrum masculinum of average proportions. 



The ovaries are dorsal and in some specimens are clearly united 

 by a system of capillaries that unite with the uteri close to the 

 outlet of the so-called uterus glands. In a general way the uteri 

 (PI. XIV, fig. 18) may be said to arise midway between the sucker 

 and the posterior end of the gut, and from this point to extend for- 

 ward, anastomosing somewhat, to turn sharply inward opposite a 

 point midway between the sucker and the anterior gut-end. Here 

 they fuse (PI. XVII, fig. 34) into a median duct, the vagina, that 

 leads to a small antrum femininum and to the exterior immediately 

 behind the point of fusion of the vasa deferentia. In the location 

 where each uterus commences to swing in toward the mid line, it is 

 joined by a short duct leading from a well-developed uterus gland 

 of varying size according to the proximity of the breeding season. 

 They may be almost spherical or contracted into a thin crescent or, 

 as appears to be a more usual state, elliptical. The duct leading 

 from it arises from the inner surface of the gland. 



EURYLEPTODES gen. nov. 



Pharynx relatively small; main gut slender with 7 to 8 anastomosing 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



483 



branches. Male sex pore at base of penis. Vas deferens simple or 

 anastomosed; uterus anastomosing; no uterus glands. 

 Euryleptodes cavicola sp. nov. 



Nine specimens represent this species taken at various points 

 along the shores of Monterey Bay. It occurs, at moderately low- 

 tide mark, on the under surface of loose boulders or concealed in 

 crevices of the bottom rock or among the holdfasts of seaweeds. 

 Its movements are generally slow and deliberate, never sufficiently 

 vigorous to enable the animal to swim. The texture of the body is 

 very delicate, and three of the specimens show extensive signs of 

 partially regenerated injuries. 



The color of the dorsal surface is greenish-white, irregularly 

 marked with small, round white spots and dark red lines of varying 

 length and direction. As a general thing, there are five fairly well- 

 defined transverse lines, the first of which is immediately behind the 

 tentacles and the last not far from the posterior end. Two irregular 

 longitudinal stripes, at times ill-defined, commence at the first 

 transverse line at points midway between the edges of the body and 

 the median line and extend backward to the last transverse line. 

 The ventral surface of the body is unpigmented. 



The largest specimen is broadly oval (PI. XVI, fig. 29) and meas- 

 ures 31 mm. in length by 20 mm. in greatest width. The ventral 

 sucker is almost exactly in 

 the centre of the body. 

 The mouth is located about 

 one-sixth the length of the 

 animal from the anterior 

 end. The penis is directed 

 forward. Nuchal tentacles 

 are wanting, but the mar- 

 ginal tentacles (text fig. 9) 

 are very large, fleshy out- 

 growths of the anterior 

 body edge. Numerous 

 small eyes are scattered 

 over the tentacles and even 

 between them; and a 

 group of somewhat larger 

 eyes, divisible into two 

 closely approximated clus- 

 ters of about seventy each, overlies the brain 





.V 



Fig. 9. — Eyes of Euryleptodes cavicola. 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



No especially noteworthy features have been noted in connection 

 with the digestive system. The mouth (PL. XVI, fig. 29) opens 

 into the acorn-shaped pharynx which has a length equal to about 

 one-ninth that of the body. Posteriorly it leads into the main gut 

 chamber which originates seven pairs of lateral intestinal branches 

 as a general thing. These are of rather even caliber at their source, 

 but soon become deeply constricted and give rise to a distinct anas- 

 tomosing system. 



The brain is located considerably nearer the mouth than the 

 anterior body margin. Both it and the nerves to which it gives rise 

 are fairly distinct, but in their distribution conform closely to the 

 well-known polyclad type. 



The testes are ventral, of moderate size and are clearly united by 

 means of a system of sperm capillaries, that apparently do not 

 anastomose, though this is not definitely established. The vasa 

 deferentia (PI. XVI, fig. 29) arise close to the posterior end of the 

 gut and skirt the external borders of the uteri. Near the anterior 

 end of the uteri these canals swing abruptly inward and fuse to form 

 a very short, median duct (PI. XV, fig. 28) which at once enters the 

 large spherical seminal vesicle. Leaving this last-named organ at 

 its opposite end, the slender ductus ejaculatorius passes into the base 

 of the penis. At the point where the latter receives the ductus the 

 rather large, oval granular gland makes its connection. In the 

 clearest of the total mounts the penis and its ducts appeared to arch 

 backward and the male aperture was accordingly posterior to it, though 

 this may have been due to contractions due to the killing fluids. 

 The penis and male pore are placed about one-fourth of the length 

 of the animal from the anterior margin of the bod}'. There is an 

 antrum masculinum of average size. 



The ovaries are dorsal and are united by an anastomosing system 

 of canals with the uteri. These last-named organs meet in the mid 

 line directly behind the mid gut (PI. XVI, fig. 29), though they 

 apparently do not fuse. Extending forward outside of the borders . 

 of the gut they anastomose frequently, particularly near the anterior 

 end where several convergent branches fuse (PI. XV, fig. 28) to form 

 the short vagina. This latter organ passes anteriorly a very short 

 distance and opens to the exterior immediately behind the seminal 

 vesicle. 



Euryleptodes pannulus sp. nov. 



5ut one specimen of this species has ever been seen by us. It was 

 nto the laboratory together with a large number of other 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



485 



l,.Q 





shore invertebrates, and we could obtain no data regarding its 



habitat; and as it came into 



our hands in a preserved state, 



no color notes are available. 



The body is broadly elliptical 



in outline and measures 12 mm. 



in length by 8 in width. The 



mouth is placed about one-fifth 



the length of the body from the 



anterior margin. The penis is 



directed forward. The tentacles 



are lacking or are exceedingly 



rudimentary, 2 and in the position 



usually occupied by marginal 



tentacles numerous eyes appear 



to be the only well-defined sense 



organs. Other eyes, of somewhat 



larger size, also occur over the 



brain in two narrow, closely 



approximated clusters. To- 

 gether these are no wider than 



the brain, though they are considerably longer. 



The mouth is situated in the anterior fifth of the animal and 



opens into a cylindrical pharynx, whose length is slightly less than 



one-sixth that of the animal. Posteriorly the pharynx leads into 



the main gut chamber, of rather slender outline and with seven or 



eight pairs of lateral intestinal branches. These distinctly anas- 

 tomose from the first. 



The brain is situated half-way be- 

 tween the mouth and the anterior 

 body margin, but the imperfect 

 preservation of the animal renders 

 it impossible to trace even the main 

 nerves. 



The testes are ventral and the 

 ducts from them may possibly 

 form an anastomosing system, 

 though this is far from being 

 proved. The large vasa deferentia, 

 originating opposite a point be- 



Fig. 10. — Ventral view of Euryleptodes 

 pannulus. 



Fig. 11. — Central reproductive ap- 

 paratus of Euryleptodes pannulus. 



2 It is possible that the peculiar shape of the tentacle region may be due to 

 injury and partial regeneration. 




486 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



tween the sucker and the posterior end of the gut, proceed ante- 

 riorly and after skirting the uteri sweep inward to fuse in the mid 

 line. The canal thus formed immediately plunges through the 

 spherical seminal vesicle and as a slender ejaculatory duct directs 

 its course to the penis. The granular gland is oval, of moderate 

 size, and opens into the ejaculatory duct near the penis. 



The ovaries are dorsal. The uteri extend posteriorly to the same 

 distance as the main gut, behind which they fuse to form a short 

 median branch. Anteriorly they extend between the gut and the 

 vasa deferentia, and converge to open in the mid line a short distance 

 posterior to the seminal vesicle. 



Euryleptodes phyllulus sp. nov. 



This species is represented by several individuals taken on the 

 southern shore of Monterey Bay. The largest specimen is elliptical 

 in outline (PI. XVI, fig. 33) and measures 28 mm. in length by 18 mm. 

 in width. Color notes are wanting. The sucker is slightly anterior 

 to the centre of the body. The mouth is about one-eighth the 

 length of the body from the anterior end near the apex of the pharyn- 

 geal pocket. The penis is directed forward. 

 The tentacles (PI. XVI, fig. 33) are fleshy 

 outgrowths of the anterior margin of the 

 body, extending posteriorly as far as the 

 brain. On and between the tentacles are 

 medium-sized eyes (text fig. 12) which 

 assume no definite arrangement, and they 

 also occur over the brain in a triangular 

 group, of about 150 ocelli, which are faintly 

 divisible into two clusters. 



The mouth (PL XVI, fig. 33) opens into 

 the roughly triangular-shaped pharynx from 

 which the main gut proceeds posteriorly, 

 giving rise to about seven pairs of intestinal 

 branches. These last-named organs are 

 often swollen at their bases, but more distally gradually decrease in 

 caliber and form an elaborately anastomosing system. 



The brain is situated immediately in front of the pharyngeal 

 pocket, but the other details of the nervous system are well-nigh 

 invisible in surface mounts. 



The testes (PI. XVI, fig. 33) are liberally distributed over the 

 ral half of the animal, but no trace has been seen of the con- 

 sperm capillaries. The vasa deferentia extend posteriorly 



• % 



• ••••• 



« • 



••• V I* •' 





Fig. 12. — Eyes of Eury 

 leptodes phyllulus. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



487 



as far as a point midway between the sucker and the posterior end 

 of the gut and laterally half-way to the margin of the body. Not 

 far behind the pharyngeal pocket the meshes of the vasa deferentia 

 converge (PI. XV, fig. 25) to form a pair of ducts which pass abruptly 

 inward to enter the seminal vesicle from the rear. This last organ 

 is large, oval, and the ejaculatory duct leaving its anterior border 

 passes quickly to the base of the penis, communicating with the 

 exterior immediately below the posterior margin of the pharyngeal 

 sheath. 



The ovaries (PI. XVI, fig. 33) are dorsal, but the ducts connecting 

 them are invisible in total mounts. The uteri, on the other hand, 

 are clearly defined and fuse behind the posterior end of the gut, 

 forming a short median canal. From this point they extend ante- 

 riorly on either side of the main gut for nearly its entire length and 

 open to the exterior immediately below the posterior end of the 

 seminal vesicle. Numerous radiating ductules (PI. XV, fig. 25) 

 from the shell gland centre in the neighborhood of the vagina. 



Bibliography. 



Heath, H.: The Anatomy of Epibdella squamula, Proc. Cal. Acad. Nat. Sci., 



Vol. 3, 1902. 



A New Turbellarian from Hawaii, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1907. 



Laidlaw, F. F.: On the Marine Fauna of Zanzibar and British East Africa, 



Proc. Zool. Soc. London, Vol. 2, 1903. 

 Lang, A.: Fauna und Flora des Golfes von Neapel, Vol. II, Die Polycladen. 

 Plehn, M.: Neue Polycladen, Jena. Zeit. f. Naturw., Bd. 30, 1895.~ 



Drei neue Polycladen, Ibid., Bd. 31, 1898. 



Stimpson, W.: Prodromus descriptionis anamalium evertebratorum, etc., Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1S57. 



Explanation of Abbreviations used in Figures. 



ab anterior intestinal branch. 



ae marginal eyes. 



af ant rum-f emininum. 



ag accessory gland. 



ai intestinal anastomoses. 



am antrum-masculinum. 



b brain. 



be bursa copulatrix. 



be brain (or cerebral) eyes. 



dp dorsal pits. 



ed ejaculatory duct. 



gg granular-gland. 



gs gland-like structures. 



ib lateral intestinal branches. 



im inner mouth. 



m mouth. 



mg mid-gut. 



nt nuchal tentacles. 



ova. 

 32 



od oviduct. 



os ovaries. 



p pharynx. 



pp pharyngeal pocket. 



ps penis. 



pss penis sheath. 



pt dorsal pits. 



sa pouch of antrum-masculinum. 



sc shell chamber. 



sg shell glands. 



sv seminal vesicle. 



t marginal tentacles. 



te nuchal tentaclfe eyes. 



ts testes. 



u uterus. 



ug uterus-gland. 



v vagina. 



vd vas deferens. 



vs ventral sucking disk 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Explanation of Plates XII-XVIII. 



All of the figures were drawn by E. A. McGregor. 



Plate XII. — Fig. 1. — Leptoplana tirnida, ventral view. 

 Fig. 2. — Stylochoplana gracilis, ventral view. 

 Fig. 3. — Leptoplana rupicola, ventral view. 

 Fig. 4. — Leptoplana saxicola, ventral view. 

 Fig. 5. — Aceros langi, ventral view: 



Fig. 6. — Reproductive apparatus of St ylochoplana gracilis. 

 Fig. 7. — Phylloplana litoricola, ventral view. 



Plate XIII. — Fig. 8. — Leptoplana inquieta, ventral view. 



Fig. 9. — Tentacle and cephalic eyes of Planocera burchami. 



Fig. 10. — Penis of Leptoplana rupicola. 



Fig. 11. — Section through dorsal papilla of Licheniplana lepida. 



Fig. 12. — Central reproductive apparatus of Leptoplana timida. 



Fig. 13. — Penis, granular gland and seminal vesicle of Leptoplana rupicola. 



Fig. 14. — Central reproductive apparatus of Leptoplana inquieta. 



Fig. 15. — Portion of male reproductive apparatus of Leptoplana rupicola. 



Fig. 16. — Stylostomum lentum, ventral view. 



Plate XIV. — Fig. 17. — Licheniplana lepida, ventral view. 

 Fig. 18. — Eurylepta auranliaca, ventral view. 

 Fig. 19. — Brain and eyes of Leptoplana saxicola. 

 Fig. 20. — Brain, tentacles and eyes of Stylochoplana gracilis. 

 Fig. 21. — Dorsal and ventral nervous systems of Leptoplana saxicola. 



Plate XV. — Fig. 22. — Central reproductive apparatus of Leptoplana rupicola. 

 Fig. 23. — Same of Phylloplana litoricola. 

 Fig. 24. — Same of Planocera calif or nica. 

 Fig. 25. — Same of Euryleptodes phyllulus. 



Fig. 26. — Longitudinal vertical section through central reproductive appara- 

 tus of Stylochoplana gracilis. 

 Fig. 27. — Planocera burchami, ventral view. 

 Fig. 28. — Reproductive apparatus of Euryleptodes cavicola. 



Plate XVI. — Fig. 29. — Euryleptodes cavicola, ventral view. 



Fig. 30.— Central reproductive apparatus of Leptoplana saxicola. 



Fig. 31. — Same of Anciliplana graffi. 



Fig. 32. — Vertical longitudinal section through penis of Planocera californica. 



Fig. 33. — Euryleptodes cavicola, dorsal view. 



Plate XVII. — Fig. 34. — Central reproductive apparatus of Eurylepta aurantiaca- 

 Fig. 35. — Anciliplana graffi, ventral view. 



Fig. 36. — Central reproductive apparatus of Licheniplana lepida. 

 Fig. 37. — Longitudinal section through reproductive apparatus of Stylo- 

 stomum lentu in. 

 Fig. 38. — Central reproductive apparatus of Aceros Iqngi. 



Plate XVIII. — Fig. 39. — Planocera californica, ventral view. 

 Fig. 40. — Eyes of Stylostomum lentum. 



Fig. 41. — Section through eyes and nuchal tentacles of Planocera californica. 

 Fig. 42. — Tentacle and cephalic eyes of Phylloplana litoricola. 

 Fig. 43. — Eyes of Leptoplana inquieta. 



Fig. 44. — Central reproductive apparatus of Planocera burchami, immature 

 individual. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



October 1. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers 

 under the following titles: 



"A revision of the genera and species of the group Mogoplistii 

 (Orthoptera: Grillidse) found in America north of the Isthmus of 

 Panama," by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard (June 6). 



"On the Orthoptera found in the Florida Keys and extreme 

 southern Florida, I," by James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard 

 (June 6). 



"A catalogue of Japanese Cephalopoda," by S. Stillman Berry 

 (June 15). 



"The experimental method of testing the efficiency of warning 

 and cryptic coloration in protecting animals from their enemies," 

 by W. L. McAtee (June 15). 



"Statistical studies on the variation of the wing-length of a 

 butterfly of the subfamily Satyrinse," by T. Fukuda (June 15). 



"Silicified wood from the Triassic of Pennsylvania," by Edgar T. 

 Wherry, Ph.D. (June 21). 



"Age and correlation of the 'New Red' or Newark group in 

 Pennsylvania," by Edgar T. Wherry, Ph.D. (June 21). 



"A new Synallaxis," by Witmer Stone (July 25). 



"New Polyclads from Monterey Bay, California," by Harold 

 Heath and Ernest B. McGregor (August 14). 



"Observations on the structure of some coral beds in the Hamilton 

 Shale," by Burnett Smith (August 15). 



"A new species of Vertigo from Florida," by E. G. Vanatta 

 (August 22). 



These had been reported on favorably for publication in the 

 Proceedings. 



A paper entitled "Experimental studies in nuclear and cell division 

 in the eggs of Crepidula, " by Edwin G. Conklin (August 5), was 

 accepted as a contribution to the commemorative volume of the 

 Journal. 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Caleb J. Milne, July 1, 1912. 

 Horace Bellows, M.D., July 12, 1912. 

 Thomas S. Parvin, July 15, 1912. 

 Horace Howard Furness, August 12, 1912. 



The death of Rudolf Hoernes, a correspondent, August 22, 1912, 

 was also announced. 



A portrait in oil of the President, by Raditz, was presented. The 

 thanks of the Academy were voted to Dr. Dixon for his very desirable 

 gift. 



Dr. Philip P. Calvert made a brief report as one of the Academy's 

 representatives at the Second International Entomological Congress 

 at Oxford. 



October 15. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Eight persons present. 



The following papers were accepted for publication in the com- 

 memorative volume of the Journal: 



"A study of the variation and zoogeography of Liguus in Florida, " 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. (August 3). 



"Analyse der Sud-Amerikanischen Heliceen," by H. von Ihering 

 (October 15). 



J. W. von Wijhe was permitted to withdraw his paper on 

 Amphioxus. 



The following were elected members: 



Ernest Comly Dercum, 

 Warren Matthews Foote. 



November 5. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



The death of the Rev. Edward Craig Mitchell, a member, on 

 December 8, 1911, was announced. 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 491 



November 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Forty-nine persons present. 



The death of Clement A. Griscom, a member, on November 10, 

 1912, was announced. 



The reception of a paper entitled "Notes on a prehistoric race of 

 Yucatan," by R. W. Shufeldt, M.D. (November 12), was reported 

 by the Publication Committee. 



Dr. Philip P. Calvert made an illustrated communication on 

 waterfall-inhabiting dragonflies of Costa Rica. 



Horace E. Smith was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



NOTES ON A PREHISTORIC RACE OF YUCATAN. 

 BY R. W. SHUFELDT, M.D. 



During the month of June, 1912, I received, through Mr. E. W. 

 Nelson, of the Biological Survey of Washington, D.C., from my son, 

 Mr.' P. W. Shufeldt, who for several years has been a resident of 

 Campeche, Yucatan, a consignment of some human remains, which 

 he had collected in that country. Mr. Nelson had received these 

 with other biological material which my son had sent him, and I 

 have pleasure in thanking him here for his courtesy in transmitting 

 them. 



About a month after this material came into my hands, my son 

 wrote me an interesting letter, in which he requested me to make 

 such use of all he had sent as I thought best, and, further, he gave a 

 brief account of the region in which he had collected the aforesaid 

 material, and other notes. 



This material I found to be the broken and fragmentary remains 

 of a human skeleton or skeletons, all of which I shall fully describe 

 further on in this contribution. 



From my son's letter I transcribe the following information, 

 which I give in his own words: "As you perhaps know, the penin- 

 sula of Yucatan — or at least such part of it as is familiar to me — is 

 evidently formed of upheaved sea-bottom, and that within com- 

 paratively recent times. It is now covered with a thin cap of decom- 

 posed vegetable mould, and more or less heavily forested in the 

 less civilized portions. At the time of this upheaval, there were 

 formed a series of low, rolling hills, with more or less level swales in 

 between. The part of which I write is almost destitute of running 

 streams or rivers, and all the available fresh water is that which is 

 collected during the rainy season in the lower depressions in the 

 swales, which are known as 'aguadas.' 



'The land which is being worked by the company with which I 



am connected comprises something over a million and a half acres, 



situated in the southern half of the District of Champoton. With 



this land I am more or less familiar, and it was here that the human 



lins were collected. At the present time, there are a few isolated 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



villages of native Indians belonging to the Maya race, who have 

 inhabited this section as far back as the memory of man. As far 

 as I have been able to find out, they have absolutely no folk-lore or 

 traditions relative to the vast population which preceded them. 

 They are a dying race, with little moral or physical stamina left, 

 and, beyond a very ordinary basket-weaving, no native industry. 



"Now as to the prehistoric race — or races — which at one time 

 covered this vast country, you would hardly believe the amount of 

 ruins that remain; it would be entirely within the truth to say that 

 all the high land has been occupied by dwelling houses, and beyond 

 a doubt the population at one time fully equalled the most congested 

 parts of India. As far as I have seen, there were no important 

 cities; rather the entire country was one swarming mass of people. 

 Often, about the larger aguadas, may be found such heaps of ruins 

 as would lead one to believe that temples or principal buildings were 

 situated there. I have personally seen but one -building standing; 

 but that is enough to give an idea of the very substantial nature of 

 the buildings — or at least of some of them. 



"Without exception, they were of stone faced with squared 

 limestone placed in mortar — the walls being of extreme thickness 

 and formed of rubble — the dressed stones facing on the outside, 

 the rooms on the inside being plastered, and, evidently, in many 

 cases, this plastering was decorative and painted. 



"In the case of the house still standing, the flat Maya arch is 

 used, and there are both doors and windows. The building was of 

 at least two .stories, and perhaps three. Besides these stone struc- 

 tures — the remains of which, as I say, are without number — there 

 are many evidences of even more numerous houses of a more perish- 

 able nature where permanent structure was only used in the founda- 

 tions and flooring. 



"Almost without exception, in the six or eight structures which 

 I have had dug up, remains of human bones were found; but all these 

 are very much decomposed and extremely brittle. 



" Other objects which have been found in these old ruins or ' cuyos, ' 

 as they are called, and of which I have collected specimens, are 

 earthen pots, both for cooking and ornament. These are of numer- 

 ous grades — some as fine as modern Guadalajara pottery, others of 

 much coarser grade. As to decorations, there are examples of 

 glaze in red, yellow, or a very dark brown, both painted decorations 

 and embossed on the clay. There are also remains of very large 

 jars which were of a coarse grade. Among other clay objects 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



found are representations of various animals, birds, and figures of 

 idols. The last are all more or less of the same character, and 

 of very inferior grade of pottery — hollow, showing head decorations 

 and ear-rings, or rather buttons, necklaces, etc. The upper teeth 

 arc always showing, sometimes in an exaggerated form, but seldom 

 any lower teeth. These clay idols occur in almost endless forms, 

 but all with the foregoing characters. 



•• Among the stone implements I have found human heads or idols; 

 axes of several kinds of stone ; arrow- and spear-heads of very superior 

 workmanship; grinding stones for corn or 'metates' — of hard stone 

 as well as of the stone used at the present time. Without exception, 

 however, these metates are very small, with short legs. 



"I have also a number of smaller stone implements, of which one 

 can only guess the uses. Besides the aforementioned specimens, 

 I have one bone implement, such as might be used for husking corn. 

 Up to the present. time there has not been a single metal implement 

 or ornament found here. 



"It will give you some idea as to the age of this civilization, when 

 I tell you that nearly all the -available ground for building, in such 

 areas as I have been able to study — that is, where we have cleared 

 away the forests — has, without doubt, been worked over by hand, 

 as evidenced by buildings, or rather the remains of them: little 

 piles of stones and trash, evidently gathered ready for building, as 

 well as broken stones without number. All, or most, have evidently 

 been tested as to their suitability for stone implements. 



"In many places, without evident remains on the surface, there 

 is, upon excavation, as much as a meter of soil containing broken 

 pottery, pieces of broken stone implements, etc., and often, also, 

 remains of human skeletons. 



"From my limited observation and knowledge of such subjects, 

 I came to the following conclusions in regard to these prehistoric 

 people, whoever they were:— that the density of population was 

 equal — or beyond — anything existing to-day upon the face of the 

 earth, outside of the large, modern cities; that they were well ad- 

 vanced in the art of building; that they were unfamiliar with the 

 use of metals (?); that there has been not only one highly developed 

 people, but two or three, each building upon the ruins of the former ; 

 that they had highly developed the art of clay-burning and glazing; 

 that they had outside communication with a people inhabiting the 

 highlands of Guatemala or Mexico or some other people living in the 

 volcanic mountain country, and that, at least, they cultivated cotton 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



and corn. How or where they secured their supply of water, who 

 they were, or where they went — each may form his own idea." 



When I came to examine the material referred to at the com- 

 mencement of this article, I found that it represented one human 

 skeleton and a few parts of a second one, such as an extra mastoid 

 process of a temporal bone of the right side of a skull. There may 

 be other pieces belonging to this latter skeleton, but of that I am 

 not quite sure, as the fragmentary condition of the whole renders it 

 practically impossible to decide as to that. The extra mastoid 

 process is larger than the other two at hand, and apparently came 

 from the skull of a larger individual than the rest would indicate. 

 It is probably from the skull of an adult male subject. 



There are some 150 pieces or more of the skeleton to which the 

 balance of the material belongs. Apart from some of the phalanges 

 of the hands and feet and other small bones, these are all more or 

 less imperfect — in most cases extremely so. 



As bones, they all exhibit the usual evidences of great age and, 

 in some instances, of having been broken up long ago — as in the 

 case of certain bits of the calvarium, where the fractured edges are 

 considerably worn, thus rendering it impossible to associate them 

 correctly. All of these pieces are of a very pale clay color, almost 

 white, and extremely friable and brittle. Even the shafts of the 

 largest long bones may easily be broken with one's hands alone. 



The only restorations that it was possible for me to make are here 

 shown in Plate XIX and in Plate XXI, fig. 17. The skull and 

 mandible are shattered into many little bits, and such bones as the 

 sphenoid and others are broken up to such an extent as to make it 

 difficult to recognize the parts — even with a perfect skull at hand 

 for guidance. Except a very few fragments, the entire vertebral 

 column and pelvis are missing, and I find no pieces that would suggest 

 any portion of the hyoid bone. One clavicle is in fairly good con- 

 dition (Plate XX, fig. 8), but most of the ribs are very fragmentary. 

 No part of the sternum seems to be present, and if it is, the parts 

 have been crumbled beyond recognition. This appears to be likewise 

 true of the scapulae. 



With respect to the long bones of the extremities (Plate XXI, 

 figs. 17-22), I find the middle thirds of the shafts of the femora, with 

 their extremities and the rest, missing. There are also similar 

 remains of the humeri, the ulnae, the radii, tibiae, fibulae, and so on; 

 but no other bone nearly as perfect as the humerus I restored in 

 Plate XXI, fig. 17. The crests of the tibiae are far from being what 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



we would call sharp. Some of the shafts of these long bones, espe- 

 cially the radii and tibiae, exhibit a pathological condition, through 

 which necrosis has followed and destroyed some of the osseous 

 tissue of the shafts. It is quite possible that this was due to syphilitic 

 disease or to some other malady, but I believe it to be due to 

 syphilis. 



Judging from the slenderness and general form of these bones, 

 I would say that they belonged to a skeleton of a female subject; 

 and, owing to the fact that the clavicle exhibits no distortion or 

 augmentation of size, to an individual who was not accustomed to 

 severe labor of any kind worth mentioning. Further, this person 

 must have been between twenty-five and thirty years of age, which 

 I assume to be the case from my examination of the seven (7) teeth 

 I find with the remains (Plate XX, figs. 3 and 4, a, b, c, d and e). 

 There is also a small first bicuspid with half of its fang broken off, 

 which is not figured. All of these teeth are wonderfully sound and 

 perfect, exhibiting no evidences of caries whatever or attrition due 

 to the wear of age. 



Only a few of the bones of the carpus, or tarsus, are present; 

 these are more or less imperfect and present nothing of special 

 interest. 



In Plate XX, figs. 9-16, I give some of the phalanges. of the hands 

 and feet. These are selected from quite a number which my son 

 collected with the rest of this skeleton, and from their general form 

 and appearance seem to have belonged to an individual who, in so 

 far as the feet are concerned, never compressed these parts in any 

 way whatever and yet walked a great deal. The individual bones 

 are stout, strong, and somewhat broad, transverselv for their lengths 

 (Plate XX, fig. 10). 



If we may judge from what we have of the skull of this subject 

 (Plate XIX, fig. 1, and Plate XX, fig. 3), it is fair to assume that the 

 possessor of it had a rather large cranial capacity; that the parietal, 

 supraoccipital and temporal walls were not particularly thick; 

 while, as a matter of fact, the tables are thin and the diploic tissue 

 not especially abundant. In the lambdoid suture there is at least 

 one ''Wormian bone" present, and there may have been others, 

 although I attach no great significance to the fact. The "anterior 

 nasal spine" was rather prominent, as is the case in some of the 

 lower races of mankind. 



On the internal table of the cranial vault, the eminences and 

 depressions for the lodgement of the convolutions of the cerebrum 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



are well marked, but not sufficiently well preserved to indicate the 

 amount or complexity of the cerebral substance. The lateral 

 sinuses, the grooves for the meningeal arteries, and the Torcular 

 Herophili are all easily made out, and there is every indication that 

 the foramen magnum was unusually large. 



Although fragmentary, this material is of no little importance, 

 especially when taken in connection with what my son has pointed 

 out in his above-quoted letter. It is to be hoped that a great deal 

 more material will come to hand from the same country, including 

 such objects as pottery, weapons, tools, ornaments, idols, etc., as 

 well as a series of good photographs of remains of buildings, character 

 of country and other data so as to furnish as complete a report as 

 possible on this prehistoric people and the little-known country they 

 inhabited. 



Explanation of Plates XIX, XX, XXI. 



[All the figures in the three plates are reproductions of photographs made by 

 the author direct from the specimens.] 



Plate XIX. — Fig. 1. — Portion of the left side of the skull, broken into five (5) 

 pieces, and restored by the author, tm., temporal bone; zyg., zygomatic 

 process of temporal; ms., mastoid process; c, condyle for atlas; p.c.f., 

 posterior condyloid foramen; oc, occipital bone, broken into four (4) 

 parts; s.s., squamosal suture; l.s., lambdoid suture. The longest diameter 

 of the portion of this skull here shown, taken from the end of the zygomatic 

 process to the occiput, measures in the specimen 16.2 cms.; the same 

 diameter measures on the figure 14.3 cms. The ratio gives the amount 

 of reduction. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 2. — One of the cervical vertebrae seen from above. The 

 spinous process broken off, together with lower border of lamina. This 

 is probably the fourth to the sixth cervical vertebra, from the skeleton 

 of not a large subject. Sex unknown. I have not compared it with the 

 vertebras of this part of the spine in the skeletons of known subjects. 

 Transverse diameter of body in specimen 1.9 cms.; in this figure on the 

 plate, 1.6 cms. This will give the ratio of reduction for all the other 

 bones shown on this plate. 



Fig. 3. — Fragment of superior maxillary bone seen on direct lateral aspect; 

 first and second molar teeth in situ. 



Fig. 4. — Five other teeth, a canine (which belonged to the bone shown in 

 fig. 3) (d); a first bicuspid (e); and three molars (a, b, and c). All, save 

 the canine, probably belonged to the other side of this jaw. 



Fig. 5. — First metacarpal bone of left hand; lateral aspect. The distal 

 extremity is toward the centre of the plate. In the specimen, the longi- 

 tudinal axis measures 4.4 cms. 



Fig. 6. — Vertebral extremity of the second rib of the right side, with a small 

 part of the shaft. Head fractured off. 



Fig. 7. — Portion of jaw; ramus of left side, with condyle and coronoid 

 process perfect. Inner aspect, showing process overhanging inferior 

 dental foramen. 



Fig. 8. — Clavicle of left side, anterior aspect; sternal and acromial extremi- 

 ties broken off. The characters of this bone indicate that it belonged 

 to a female subject, or at least to a person who was not accustomed to 

 perform severe and continuous labor. 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



j.-j<r 9_ — Firgt phalangeal joint, minimus digit, left hand, palmar aspect. 



The distal extremities of all the phalangeal joints shown in the plate are 



directed upwards, with the exception of the one placed horizontally 



(fig. 13). 

 Fig. 10. — First phalanx of annularis digit of left hand, dorsal aspect. The 



specimen is perfect and 3.7 cms. in length. 

 Fig. 11. — Fourth metacarpal, left hand, dorsal aspect. Length of specimen, 



4.9 cms. 

 Fig. 12. — First phalanx of second toe of right foot, seen on dorsal surface. 

 Fig. 13. — First phalanx of minimus digit of left hand, dorsal aspect. 

 Fig. 14. — Third metatarsal of left foot, dorso-inner-lateral aspect. 

 Fig. 15. — Second metatarsal of the left foot, internal surface. 

 Fig. 16. — Second metatarsal of the right foot, internal surface. 



Plate XXI. — Fig. 17. — Shaft of right humerus, posterior surface, extremities 

 imperfect, olecranon depression not perforated. Restored by the author 

 from three fragments in the collection. Extreme length of specimen, 

 25.6 cms. 



Fig. 18. — Proximal moiety of left humerus, posterior surface (probably 

 from the skeleton of the same individual). 



Fig. 19. — Part of the shaft of the left tibia, anterior surface. Proximal 

 moiety with extremity missing. 



Fig. 20. — Part of the shaft of the right tibia, anterior surface. Proximal 

 moiety with extremity missing (probably from the skeleton of the same 

 individual). The peculiar excoriation of the bone in the case of these 

 two tibia? indicate possible disease (syphilis?). 



Fig. 21. — Proximal end of left radius, including head. 



Fig. 22. — Proximal end of right radius, including head. Reduced about 

 one-third. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



December 17. 



The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



Dr. Thomas H. Fenton, the Chairman of the Library Committee, 

 called attention to a copy of the Centenary volume of the Journal 

 (XV) placed on the table by the Publication Committee in com- 

 memoration of the meeting held last March to celebrate the one 

 hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Academy. He com- 

 mented on the typographical merits of the volume, the value of its 

 contents, and the promptness of its publication. 



He then offered the following, which was unanimously adopted: 



Resolved, That it . is the sense of this meeting that the sincere 

 thanks of the Academy are due to Dr. Edward J. Nolan for his 

 untiring zeal in the preparation, compilation, and editing of the 

 splendid memorial volume presented to-night, and for its extraor- 

 dinarily prompt completion. 



The reception of papers under the following titles was reported 

 by the Publication Committee: 



"The Protoconch of Acmsea." By Will F. Thompson (Decem- 

 ber 14). 



''Fauna of the Gatun Formation, Isthmus of Panama — II." 

 By A. P. Brown and H. A. Pilsbry (December 17). 



The following were ordered to be published: 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION, ISTHMUS OF PANAMA-II. 

 BY AMOS P. BROWN AND HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The collection reported in this paper was obtained by Professor 

 William B. Scott in 191 1. 1 It comprises materials from the follow- 

 ing sources: 



1. Fossils from the oyster-shell areas in the Black Swamp near 

 Mount Hope (Monkey Hill). This material consists of coral and 

 coralline fragments, with a considerable molluscan fauna, including 

 the oysters which are the distinguishing shells of these shell areas. 

 The bed lies about 4 feet above the present sea level, and is doubt- 

 less the same as that encountered in digging for sewers, etc., in 

 the streets of Colon. Among the Mollusca the recent species pre- 

 dominate, though some species found in this assemblage seem to 

 be extinct. It must be remembered, however, that the recent 

 fauna of this part of the coast, aside from the strictly littoral forms, 

 is very imperfectly known, and hence some of these supposedly 

 extinct forms may be found living. In any case, it does not seem 

 probable that this bed can be older than Pleistocene. The species 

 will be considered, along with those of lot 2, in another paper. 



2. From the oyster-shell areas in the black, unconsolidated mud, 

 unconformable on the Gatun Formation, found at the lower end of the 

 Gatun Locks. This mud extends from a few feet below sea level 

 to about 10 feet above it. The specimens collected consist of 

 shells of Ostrea with a large number of specimens of Congeria and 

 many barnacles. The other mollusks are not so plentiful as in lot 

 1, there are no corals or corallines, but it is evident from the im- 

 pressions on the shells that the oysters grew on mangroves or similar 

 plants. The species will be considered in another paper along with 

 those of the preceding collection. 



3. Fossils from the Gatun beds in the excavation of the Lower Locks 

 at Gatun. This bed was the source of most or all of the material 

 described in our former paper. 2 A number of additional species 



1 Acknowledgments are due to Mr. D. F. MacDonald. geologist of the 

 ('anal Commission, who collected a large part of the material and supplied the 

 data concerning it. 



Fauna of the Gatun Formation, Isthmus of Panama. Proc. A. N. S. Phila. t 

 1911, p. 336. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



are here added. In this bed, especially in the part below sea level, 

 the fossils are beautifully preserved, and the fauna, if it ever becomes 

 completely known, will doubtless prove to be a very rich one. We 

 have already discussed its position in the series in the paper noted 

 above. The new species found in this lot are as follows (including 

 3 species of Natica collected by Brown, 1910) : 



Vol vula micratracta n. sp. 



Ringicula hypograpta n. sp. 



Pleurotoma (Gemmula) vaningeni n. sp. 



Drillia enneacyma n. sp. 



Glyphostoma dentiferum Gabb. 



Fasciolaria gorgasiana n. sp. 



Turbonilla bartschiana n. sp. 



Turbonilla gatunensis n. sp. 



Natica bolus n. sp. 



Natica canalizonalis n. sp. 



Natica canrena (Linn.). 



Sigaretus (Eunaticina) gabbi n. sp. 



Pecten (Cyclopecten) oligolepis n. sp. 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) hexacyma n. sp. 



Echinochama antiquata Dall. 



4. Fossils from the excavation of the Spillway, Gatun Dam. This 

 is in the Gatun Formation, here a rather soft, somewhat lignitic 

 material, largely composed of volcanic ash. Besides the species 

 noted below, it contains fragments of wood, nuts, and other remains 

 of land plants, converted to lignite coal. The list of species ob- 

 served in this Spillway material is as follows: 



Conus concavitectum B. and P. 



Cyprcea henikeni Sowb. 



Turritella altilira Conrad. 



Pecten (Amusium) luna n. sp. 



Pecten (Euvola) reliquus n. sp. 



Cardium (Trachy cardium) dominicense Gabb. 



Cardium durum n. sp. 



Tellina cequiterminata n. sp. 



Dosinia delicatissima n. sp. 



dementia dariena (Conrad). 



Petricola millestriata n. sp. 



Thracia {Cyathodonta) isthmica n. sp. 



Solen near amphistemma Dall. 



5. Fossils from the Cuts along the Relocation of the Panama Rail- 

 road in the Quebrancha Hills, nearly one mile south of Gatun. This 

 is in the Gatun Formation, and Mr. Mac-Donald notes that these 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



beds appear to be higher in the formation than those at the Spill- 

 way excavation. The fossils are pelecypods mostly and are similar 

 to those in the upper part of the excavations for the Locks at Gatun 

 as well as those from the Spillway. The material in which the 

 shells are imbedded is mostly volcanic ash, often hardened by the 

 calcium carbonate from the shells, which in their turn are partly 

 dissolved and softened, falling out of the rock as casts of the interior 

 of the shell and leaving a more or less perfect mould. The species 

 identified are as follows: 



Turritella altilira Conrad. 



Turritella gatunensis Conrad. 



Area dariensis B. and P. 



Cardium stir latum B. and P. 



Cardium dominicense Dall. 



Chione tegulum B. and P. 



Chione ulocyma Dall. 



Callocardia gatunensis multifilosa Dall. 



dementia dariena (Conrad). 



Cyclinella gatunensis Dall. 



6. Fossils from the fossiliferous layers near Tower N, Las Cascades, 

 Culebra Cut. At Las Cascades the Culebra Cut passes through a 

 hardened volcanic ash or tuff, interbedded with which are several 

 thin, fossil-bearing layers. The uppermost of these is some 85 feet 

 above the bottom of the cut, as it was at the time this collection was 

 made. It is a thin limestone bed, often not more than a few r inches 

 thick. This we have called the Pecten bed, from the numbers of 

 Pecten and Amusium which it contains. This Pecten bed was seen 

 by Professor Scott to extend along the cut to about a mile south of 

 Empire, or at least two miles along the cut. The material of the 

 bed is largely ash which is cemented to a firm stone by the calcium 

 carbonate derived from the shells, which in many cases are dis- 

 solved, leaving a mould or cast. The list of species found in 

 this Pecten bed includes several species found at the Spillway as 

 well as at the Lock excavations at Gatun, along with several new 

 species. The list of species identified from the Pecten bed is given 

 below. 



At 65 feet below the Pecten bed, and also at some 20 feet still 

 lower, or what was the bottom of the cut when this collection was 

 made, are black lignitic clays interbedded with the gray tuff which 

 carry a fauna of small molluscan forms. These represent a 

 dwarfed or 'runt' fauna such as is often found in connection 

 with lignitic formations. There are also remains of Crustacea, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



crabs, in the lower layer. It was in these lignitic layers that the 

 oxidation of pyrite produced a heating of the shale, resulting in 

 the generation of steam and gas that was reported in the daily 

 press as the breaking out of a volcano in the Culebra Cut. The 

 fossils are largely pseudomorphs of calcite, and when they are 

 wetted the shell crumbles and falls apart. It is very difficult to 

 clean the shells in this bed from the adhering shale on this account. 

 The number of species is considerable, but only a few can be 

 extracted in sufficiently clean condition to be determined or 

 described. A list of the species that could be studied is given 

 below : 



Species observed in the Pecten Bed at Tower N, Las Cascades. 



Balanus sp. 



Murex (Phyllonotus) gatunensis B. and P. 

 Pyrula micronematica n. sp. 

 Area sp. 



Pecten (Amusium) sol n. sp. 



Pecten (Amusium) sp. indet. A fragment of an Amusium with 

 even ribs. 



Pecten (Mquipecten) oxygonum canalis n. subsp. 



Ostrea gatunensis B. and P. 



Tellina vetula n. sp.- 



Semele chipolana Dall. 



Chione (Lirophora) ulocyma (Dall.). 



Dosinia delicatissima n. sp. 



Crassitellites mediamericanus n. sp. 



Kuphus incrassatus Gabb. 



Schizaster schertzeri Gabb. 



Species observed in the Lignitic Layers near Tower N, Las 



Cascades. 



Callianassa scotti n. sp. 



Nassa (Hi ma) prceambigua n. sp. 



Bittium scotti n. sp. 



Turritella altilira Conrad. 



Area dalli n. sp. 



Spondylus scotti n. sp. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 

 Callianassa scotti n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 1-3. 



The propodite is quadrate, its width nearly or quite equal to the 

 length, the upper face evenly convex, its surface granular, at least 

 near the base of the fixed finger. The proximal margin is abruptly 

 33 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



depressed. Lateral margin on the side of the fixed finger is acute 

 a nd crenulated, the opposite edge being less acute and apparently 

 smooth. The palm is convex in the middle, a little concave towards 

 the crenulated margin. There is a submedian row of three small 

 tubercles on the distal half. The fixed finger is quite slender and 

 shorter than the palm. 



Measurements (in Millimeters) . 



a. 

 b. 



About 65 feet below the base of the Pecten bed at Tower N, 

 Culebra Cut. 



This species, one of the largest Callianassas, is rather abundant, 

 represented in the collection by ten chelae and some fragments. 

 Named in honor of Professor William B. Scott. It is evidently what 

 Herr Toula figured as Krabbenscheren, I.e., p. 512, Taf. XXX, 

 fig- 14. 



In a few specimens the hand is longer, length of palm 30, width 

 24 mm. 



In the Gabb collection from Costa Rica there is an imperfect 

 hand evidently referable to the same species. 



Volvulella micratracta n. sp. Text fig. 1. 



Bulla (Volvula) cf. ozytata Bush, Toula, I.e., p. 709, pi. 28, fig. 4, 1909. 



The shell resembles V. minuta Bush, from which it differs by the 

 noticeably longer posterior spine-like extension and more swollen 

 shape. The spiral sculpture is decidedly stronger, 

 consisting of distinct, continuous, widely spaced 

 grooves, of which three are at the anterior and two 

 at the posterior end. On the convex portion there 

 is some appearance of very shallow longitudinal 

 plication. There is a narrow umbilical slit. 

 Length 1.5, cliam. 0.7 mm. 



The type from Gatun is probably conspecific 



with a series of five specimens from Monkey River, 



British Honduras. These are larger, up to 2 mm. 



Fig. 1. long, and have more of the distinct grooves at the ends. 



They were found in mud brought up on an anchor. 



V. oxytata is a much more cylindrical species. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



505 



Kingicula hypograpta n. sp. Text fig. 2. 



Shell globose-conic, solid, composed of four moderately convex 

 whorls. Apex obtuse. Surface smooth above, minutely engraved 

 spirally below the periphery with about 

 10 lines ; growth-lines visible but weak. 

 The last whorl terminates in a thick 

 and strong, rounded lip-varix. Outer lip 

 is thickest in the middle, where it bulges 

 forward and inward. Columella has a 

 strong upper and thinner basal lamella. 

 Parietal callus thick, provided with a 

 small median fold. 



Length 2.1, diam. 1.5 mm. 



Gatun bed, Lower Locks at Gatun. 



Fig. 2. 



Pleurotoma (Gemmula) vaningeni n. sp. PL XXII, 



fig. 4. 



The shell is composed of about 13 

 whorls, of which the first 2\ are smooth 

 and convex ; next whorl also convex, with sculpture of close, 

 regular, axial ribs. At the beginning of the following whorl the 

 sculpture changes abruptly. A strong, rounded cord appears imme- 

 diately below the suture, and a stronger, wider one occupies the 

 middle of the exposed part of the whorl, its summit bearing tubercles 

 which are noticeably longer in the axial direction. On the last 

 three whorls there are several spiral threads in the sulci above and 

 below the median tuberculate ridge, and the tubercles upon the 

 latter become somewhat more compressed. The last whorl has 

 about ten major spirals and numerous unequal spiral threads below 

 the peripheral ridge, the upper three spirals larger than the lower 

 ones. There are also on the last three or four whorls rather close- 

 set, retractive axial threads above the beaded ridge. 



Length 19.5, diam. 7.3 mm. 



Excavation at Gatun Locks. 



This handsome species is named for Dr. Gilbert Van Ingen, of 

 the Princeton University Museum. 



Drillia enneacyma n. sp. Text fig. 3. 



The shell is small, fusiform, composed of about 8 whorls, the first 

 three smooth, the rest having sculpture of strong, rounded, slightly 

 protractive, smooth, axial ribs, about as wide as their intervals and 

 nine on each whorl. On the last whorl the ribs stop rather abruptly 

 where the convex portion of the whorl passes into the short, tapering 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Fig. 3. 



anterior end, which has sculpture of spiral cords only. The 

 intervals between ribs are crossed by low spiral cords 

 separated by narrower grooves, which extend part 

 way up the slopes of the ribs, but are wholly absent 

 near and at their summits. On the last whorl about 

 9 spirals may be counted in each intercostal interval. 

 The aperture is narrow, with a distinct but not deep 

 posterior sinus. 



Length 6, diam. 2.1 mm. 



From excavation of the lower locks at Gatun. 



Fasciolaria gorgasiana n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 5. 



This species is represented by the last two whorls 

 minus the anterior canal. A fusiform shell with the 

 anterior extension quite narrow is indicated. The sur- 

 face slopes rather steeply from the suture to the subangular shoulder 

 and is ornamented on the last whorl with about 10 low, unequal 

 spiral cords. The shoulder bears conic tubercles, a little compressed 

 vertically, about 8 tubercles on each whorl. A cord at the shoulder 

 and two others below it override tubercles and intervals, but are 

 stronger on the tubercles. Below the shoulder the whorl is at first 

 convex and sculptured with strong alternating with weak cords, 

 then becomes concave, passing into the anterior canal. The col- 

 umella has a group of three strong plaits. The diameter of the last 

 whorl is about 21 mm. 



Gatun bed. 



This small species is related to the much larger F. intermedia 

 Sowb. of the Santo Domingo Oligocene, but on comparison with a 

 good series of that species it is seen that the coronal tubercles of 

 F. gorgasiana are more acutely conic and radiate more horizontally; 

 the last whorl also contracts more rapidly downwards. Fusus 

 quinquespinus Dall has much resemblance to this species, but there 

 arc only five spines on the last whorl. The type is fragmentary, 

 but so characteristic that there can be no difficulty in recognizing 

 it. Named in recognition of the services to the State of Col. Wil- 

 liam C. Gorgas. 



Nassa (Hima) praeambigua n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 6, 7. 



The shell resembles N. ambigua Mont., being acutely ovate- 

 conic, the outlines of the spire straight, suture narrowly impressed, 

 iiorls not conspicuously convex except the last, which is rather 

 The apex is acute, first 2* whorls smooth, subsequent 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



whorls with sculpture of rounded axial ribs nearly as wide as their 

 intervals, crossed by spiral cords. On the last whorl there are 

 13 or 14 ribs, the last one larger, forming the lip-varix. The ribs 

 are continuous from whorl to whorl as in some related forms. Spiral 

 sculpture of low cords which are more prominent on the ribs, weak 

 in the intervals, and to the number of eight on the last whorl above 

 the basal sulcus. On the penultimate whorl there are three of 

 these cords, lower than those on the last whorl, or sometimes 4 

 when the upper one is split. The aperture is small, apparently 

 not unlike that of N. ambigua, but filled with coarse material in all 

 the specimens. 



Length 5.3, diam. 3.3 mm. 



From a lignitic clay below the Pecten bed at Tower N, Culebra 

 Cut. The specimens were taken from 65 to 80 feet below the 

 Pecten bed. It is rather abundant. 



In Nassa ambigua there are more spiral cords than in this species, 

 and they are stronger in the intercostal intervals; the whorls of the 

 spire are more convex. In N. prceambigua the spire is straight- 

 sided as in N. vibex Say. N. bidentata Emmons has fewer spirals 

 and wider, fewer axial ribs. The recent Alectrion (Hima) catallus 

 Dall, from deep water in the Gulf of Panama, is a more elaborately 

 sculptured shell of the same group. N. prceambigua is probably 

 an ancestor of the Pliocene and recent members of the Hima group 

 on both sides of the isthmus. 



Pyrula micronematica n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 8. 



The shell has the usual shape. Sculpture of small, slender spiral 

 cords which are noticeably knotted where the rather wide-spaced 

 axial threads intersect them. Minute secondary spiral threads 

 divide the wide spaces of the primary cords. Faint traces of most 

 minute spiral threads of a third order may be perceived. The 

 spacing and number of spirals is the same as in the recent P. decus- 

 sata Wood. 



Length of the imperfect specimen figured 28.8 mm. 



Found in the Pecten bed in the Culebra Cut near Tower N, Las 

 Cascades. 



This species agrees with Pyrula decussata Wood of the recent 

 Panamic fauna in having only half as many major spirals as the 

 Antillean P. papyracea Say and P. pUsbryi B. Smith. The essential 

 differences between the two collateral phyla (represented in the 

 recent fauna by P. papyracea and P. decussata), were therefore 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



well established in the Oligocene. P. micronematica is a much 

 -mailer species than P. decussata (of which it is probably an ancestor), 

 with smaller, very slender primary spirals. In young P. decussata 

 the spirals are much larger and closer together. Both of the speci- 

 i nens found are in the hard tufaceous rock of the Pecten bed. Neither 

 shows the early or embryonic whorls. 



Natica bolus n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 9. 



The shell is rotund, solid, composed of 4| whorls, the earlier 

 ones slowly, the last two rapidly enlarging. The spire is very low, 

 conic, narrow, and small, suture but little impressed; last whorl 

 is a little depressed below the suture and smooth throughout. The 

 aperture is semicircular as usual. The parietal margin is heavily 

 calloused, chiefly in the upper angle, a short rounded ridge emerg- 

 ing just below it. A larger bluntly triangular lobe projects at the 

 upper edge of the umbilicus, and a less conspicuous pad terminates 

 a cord spirally entering the umbilical cavity. 



Alt. 9, diam. 9.5 mm. 



Gatun bed A. P. B., 1910. 



This species differs from N. canrena by its much less deeply im- 

 pressed suture, absence of tangential plication above, and various 

 details of the columellar region. 



Natica canrena (Linn.). 



Several specimens, the largest having a diameter of 28 mm., 

 were taken by one of us in the Gatun bed. They belong apparently 

 to an early race of the N. canrena stock, such as that occurring in 

 the Bowden bed. No opercula were obtained. 



Natica canalizonalis n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 10. 



The shell is hemispherical with a very small low-conic, subacute 

 spire of 4^ whorls, the last two rapidly enlarging, last whorl somewhat 

 depressed below the suture, which is very little impressed. The 

 inner lip is very heavily calloused posteriorly, the part above the 

 umbilicus very short, emerging a little, projecting at the upper 

 margin of the umbilicus, the face of the projection transversely 

 dented. The umbilicus is ample, rendered lunate by a flat median 

 callus which terminates a cord spirally entering the umbilicus. 



Alt. 8, diam. 8.3 mm. 



Gatun bed, A. P. B., 1910. 



The ample umbilicus, heavy, transversely dented parietal callus 

 and appressed suture characterize this species, of which only "one 

 specimen was taken. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



Sigaretus (Eunaticina) gabbi n. sp. PI. XXII, fig. 13. 



The shell is narrowly umbilicate, semiglobose, with very short, 

 narrow spire of 3| whorls. The first two whorls, which compose 

 the embryonic shell, are convex, smooth, and glossy and increase 

 slowly. After that the shell abruptly becomes dull, with sculpture 

 of close, fine, spiral striae. The last whorl is most convex below the 

 periphery. The aperture is nearly as long as the shell, ovate. 

 Columella somewhat thickened and a little rolled back. 



Greatest length 6.5, diam. 6.5 mm.; length of aperture 6 mm. 



Gatun Locks. 



S. multilineatus Gabb from Sapote, Costa Rica, is a larger shell 

 with more conic, elevated spire. 



Bittium scotti n. sp. PI. XXII, figs. 11, 12. 



Shell turreted, with very slightly convex outlines, tapering to a 

 minute, acute apex. Whorls about 12, the first 2 or 3 smooth. 

 Subsequent whorls have sculpture of axial ribs about equal to their 

 intervals, crossed by numerous unequal spiral threads. On the 

 penultimate whorl there are about 15 axial ribs crossed by about 

 6 spiral threads and some minute striae. On the last whorl there 

 are one or two rounded varices, broader and more prominent than 

 the ribs, which are very weak in their vicinity, and do not extend 

 below the periphery. The base has 4 or 5 strong, continuous 

 spiral cords. 



Length 10.5, diam. 3.8 mm. 

 9.5 " 3.6 " 

 8.5 " 2.8 " 



About 65 to 80 feet below the Pecten bed at Tower N, Culebra 

 Cut, near Las Cascades. 



This shell stands close to Bittium boiplex Dall, of the Chipola 

 Oligocene, which differs chiefly by its more slender contour. B. 

 priscum Dall, of the Tampa Silex bed, seems to be an allied form 

 with fewer spirals. B. Scotti is extremely abundant in the friable 

 ignitic bed at Tower N } Culebra Cut, but most of the specimens 

 are calcite pseudomorphs and cannot be extricated from the similar 

 material in which they are imbedded. 

 Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) bartschiana n. sp. Text fig. 4a. 



The shell is minute, slender, with a bulimoid embryonic shell 

 of about 2 smooth whorls, the last strongly convex and nearly 

 half immersed in the first neanic whorl; post-embryonic whorls 6, 

 convex, with sculpture of smooth, rounded, vertical, axial ribs equal 

 to their intervals. On the penultimate whorl there are 17 ribs. 




510 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



On the last half of the last whorl the ribs become smaller; the con- 

 cave intervals do not extend be- 

 low the periphery and are rounded 

 at their lower ends. 



Length 2, diam. 0.6 mm. 



Excavation at Gatun Locks. 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) sratunensis n. sp. 

 Text fig. 46, c. 



The shell is minute, rather rap- 

 idly tapering, the diameter at the 

 last whorl about double that of 

 the first post-embryonic whorl. 

 Embryonic shell bulimoid, of about 

 2 whorls, the last very globose, 

 pjg 4 nearly half immersed. Post-em- 



bryonic whorls 5^, convex, the 

 greatest convexity just above the suture, which is deeply impressed. 

 Sculpture of rounded, slightly protractive, axial ribs, equal to their 

 intervals, 14 on the last whorl; the concave intervals gradually 

 effaced at the periphery of the last whorl. 



Length 1.7, diam. 0.65 mm. Length of embryonic shell 0.3, 

 diam. 0.2 mm. 

 Excavation at Gatun Locks. 



Related to T. bartschiana, but more rapidly tapering, with the 

 whorls more swollen below and the riblets noticeably protractive. 



Area dalli n. sp. PL XXIII, fig. 4. 



A small, very obese ark, with beaks at the anterior fourth of 

 the length, full and well incurved; hinge-line rather short. Valves 

 equal, similarly sculptured with about 28 ribs wider than their 

 intervals, those of the median and anterior part strongly and closely 

 tuberculate, as in Area chiriquiensis Gabb, the posterior ribs nearly 

 smooth. Interior unknown. 



Length 20, alt. 16, diam. 15.7 mm. 



From a lignitic clay at the bottom of the Culebra Cut, near Tower 

 N; a bed below the Pecten bed at the same place. 



Pecten (Euvola) reliquus n. sp. PI. XXIV, fig. 3. 



• Pecten sp. (vielleicht n. sp.) " Toula, Jahrb. k.k. Geol. Reichsanst., 1908, 

 LVIII, p. 755, text figs, 12, 13. 



The left valve is strongly convex, the right almost flat, being 

 very gently convex towards the beaks, concave on each side of the 

 middle. Sculpture of about 24 strong ribs. In the left valve they 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



are a little flattened on the summits, have very steeply sloping 

 sides, and are parted by intervals decidedly narrower than the ribs. 

 Over all there is a fine concentric sculpture of delicate lamina?, 

 which remain much more prominent in the intercostal spaces. In 

 the right valve the ribs are noticeably narrower, about equal to their 

 intervals, and they are almost obsolete in a rather wide band at the 

 anterior end. The anterior ear is ribless. The concentric sculp- 

 ture is less developed than in the convex valve. The height is 

 52 mm. in the largest co-type — a right valve. 



Gatun Formation at the Spillway. 



This scallop may be readily recognized, even in fragments, by its 

 finer sculpture, which is unlike other Isthmian species. 



Pecten oxygonum oanalis n. subsp. PI. XXIII, fig. 3. 



We refer to this subspecies a series of scallops from the Pecten 

 bed at Tower N, Culebra Cut, Canal Zone, which agree with the 

 Costa Rican P. o. optimum in the main, but differ by having the 

 radial striae almost equal, without an enlarged one on the ridge 

 of each rib. The number of ribs is the same as in optimum. The 

 figured specimen measures, alt. 45.5, length 44 mm. Some are 

 larger, up to 55 mm. in length. 



This is a very abundant and characteristic fossil of the upper 

 bed of hard limestone near Tower N. The shells cannot be extri- 

 cated from the rock, in which they are exposed by breaking it up. 

 While this Pecten is obviously close to Costa Rican and Haitian 

 forms, it seems advisable to signalize the minor differences of the 

 races by subspecific names. 



Pecten oxygonum optimum n. subsp. PI. XXIII, fig. 2. 



Pecten paranensis d'Orb., Gabb, Journ. A. N. S. Phila., VIII, p. 347. pi. 

 45, fig. 24. Not of d'Orbigny, Voyage dans l'Am&\ Merid., Pakean- 

 tologie, p. 132. 



The shell is larger than P. oxygonum Sowb., of the Santo Domingo 

 Oligocene, with lower ribs. There are at least 19 ribs, several 

 at each end, narrow, low, and slender, the rest rounded, broad, and 

 rather low, parted by somewhat narrower intervals. Both ribs 

 and intervals bear unequal radial stria? or threads, of which one on 

 the summit of each rib is somewhat larger, giving the ribs a cari- 

 nated appearance. There is also an enlarged thread in the middle 

 of some of the intercostal valleys. About 11 stria? may be counted 

 between the summit of one rib and the next. Auricles strongly 

 striated radially. The whole surface (except near the beaks) bears 




5 1 2 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



a dense and minute sculpture of raised concentric threads or growth- 

 laminae, which are not emphasized in passing over the striae. 



Length 62, altitude 57, semidiameter 13 mm. 



Reventazon River, Costa Rica, Type a right valve. Collected 

 by Win. M. Gabb, Coll. A. N. S. P. 



This specimen was referred by Gabb to P. paranensis Orb., which, 

 while doubtless related, differs decidedly in the secondary sculpture. 

 We are equally unable to refer the Costa Rican species to P. 7nadi- 

 sonius, which has higher and usually fewer ribs. The Santo 

 Domingan specimens which Gabb identified as the unfigured P. 

 oxygonum Sowb. are all smaller than the present shell, with some- 

 what more elevated ribs, which bear fewer radial striae. 



Dall has proposed a Pecten gabbi s for specimens from Antigua 

 and Santo Domingo, which have the general form of this shell, but 

 differ by having "narrower interspaces each filled with one imbri- 

 cated riblet." In P. optimum there are 4 or 5 striae in each interval, 

 and when one is larger it is not conspicuously so. Dall includes 

 Gabb's Costa Rican shell in his references, but does not refer to it 

 in the text. Gabb does not report paranensis from Santo Domingo. 



Pecten (Cyclopecten) oligolepis n. sp. Text fig. 5. 



Pecten app. subhyalinus Smith, Toula, J. B, dor k.k. Geolog. Reichsan- 

 stalt, 1911, Bd. 61, p. 492, pi. 31, figs, la, b, c. 



This shell is very close to the West Indian Cyclopecten simplex 

 Yerrill, but differs in details of sculpture. The right valve has 



concentric sculpture of excessively 

 faint and fine striae, scarcely visible, 

 and only under the compound mi- 

 croscope, and there are slightly more 

 distinct radial threads near the edges. 

 The left valve has rather widely 

 spaced low concentric threads and 

 more delicate radial threads, chiefly 

 seen near the margins. In C. simplex 

 the right valve is the more strongly 

 sculptured, according to Verrill. The 

 internal structure is substantially as figured for C. simplex (Trans. 

 Conn. Acad., X, pi. 19, figs, 1, 2). 



Length 2.8 ; height 2.7, diam of right valve .8 mm. 

 From the excavation of the lower locks at Gatun. 



Fig. 5. 



:: Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sci., Ill, p. 717, pi. 29, fig. 3. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



Pecten subhyalinus E. A. Smith, from the west coast of Pata- 

 gonia, is somewhat higher than long, the hinge line is shorter and 

 the valves somewhat less convex than in P. oligolepis. 



Pecten (Amusium) sol n. sp. PI. XXIV, figs. 1, 2. 



The shell is subcircular, thin, but slightly convex, nearly smooth 

 (the growth-lines being very faint) except near the beaks, where 

 there are radial riblets, low, rounded, but very distinct for a distance 

 of about 10-14 mm., then gradually becoming weak and disappear- 

 ing. In the left valve the beak is depressed, almost flat, and the 

 auricles are marked off by a small ledge, but no decided change 

 in the general curvature of the surface. In the right valve the beak 

 is somewhat convex and separated from the more distinctly de- 

 marked auricles by a groove. Internally the shell has radial ribs 

 in pairs, the interval between the ribs of a pair being about one- 

 third the width of the interval between pairs. 



Two valves, cotypes, measure 83 mm. from beaks to basal margin. 

 Some specimens represented by internal casts are larger, up to 

 90 mm. in altitude in the case of a large one. This valve measured 

 90 mm. in length. 



From a bed with Pecten oxygonum optimum in the Culebra Cut, 

 near Tower N, Las Cascades. 



This species and Pecten oxygonum optimum are characteristic 

 fossils of what we have called the Pecten bed, at Tower N. 



This Amusium differs from Pecten touloe, of the Gatun bed, P. 

 papyracea Gabb, of Santo Domingo, and the North American P. 

 mortoni by having strong radial sculpture in the early neanic stage: 

 those species agreeing with the recent Oriental forms in having no 

 external radial sculpture at any stage. P. lyonii Gabb, described 

 from Sapote, Costa Rica, agrees with P. sol in having radial beak 

 sculpture, but it differs by having more distinctly defined auricles 

 and by the internal sculpture of numerous equidistant ribs. While 

 the ribs of one valve are not perceptibly twinned in the Oriental 

 Amusiums, they are about equal in number in the two valves in P. 

 pleuronectes L., in which this character of having one valve with 

 equally spaced ribs and one with paired ribs is very pronounced. 

 With the single exception noted below, all of the casts we have seen 

 from the Pecten bed agree in having ribs in contiguous pairs. 



In one incomplete cast the ribs are in pairs separated by intervals 

 fully half as wide as the spaces between pairs (not crowded as in 

 P. lyonii Gabb). This probably represents another species. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Pecten (Amusium) luna n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 1. , 



A species resembling P. mortoni Conr., from which it differs chiefly 

 by the ears which are depressed below the plane of the valve and 

 separated by a ledge. In P. mortoni the ears are nearly level with 

 the adjacent part of the valve, from which grooves separate them. 

 The hinge-line is short, not serrate above in the right valve, as in 

 P. mortoni. The surface is smooth throughout except for the usual 

 hue growth-lines and fine, indistinct radial striation, such as is seen 

 in P. mortoni. The laterodorsal lines diverge more than in mor- 

 toni, forming a greater angle at the beak. The internal ribs run in 

 pairs, spaced about as in P. sol. The shell is rather strongly convex 

 for an Amusium, more convex than in P. mortoni. 



Alt. 76, length 80 mm.; diam. right valve 12 mm. 



Gatun Formation at the Spillway. 



The type is a right valve, which we at first referred to P. sol, 

 from which it differs chiefly by the unsculptured beak and the 

 ledges defining the ears. 



P. ioulce differs by its gray radii. 

 Spondylus scotti n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 1, 2. 



A species of the S. americanus group, having the lower valve 

 very convex, the upper valve moderately so; beak not much produced. 

 Sculpture of about 17 narrow little-prominent radial ribs, some 

 of them bearing very short, scale-like spines, irregularly placed, 

 and on the lower half only; between these ribs there are fine, un- 

 equal longitudinal striae, 4 to 8 in each space. They are crenulated 

 by extremely fine, crowded laminae along the growth-lines. There 

 are some weakly developed foliations on one side of the lower valve. 



Breadth 51 mm., length (alt.) of lower valve 65, of upper 58 mm., 

 diam. 41 mm. 



From the lignitic bed below the Pecten bed at Tower N, Culebra 

 Cut, 



Well distinguished from the recent Antillean S. americanus 

 Hermann by the delicacy of the sculpture and more convex lower 

 valve-. It is also somewhat related to S. gumanomocon 4 of the 



* Spondylus gumanomocon n. sp. A species resembling S. varians Sowb. 



S. delessertii Chenu). The upper valve is Pectiniform, orbicular, of moderate 



thickness, with low radial ribs, the principal ones irregularly spinose, spines 



-hurt; cardinal urea small and short, as in S. americanus. Lower valve very 



ponderous, with a long, level (not receding) cardinal area, and a very long, 



Jit (or sometimes laterally curved) beak, the cavity of which is deeply 



sxcavated in young shells, nearly solidly filled in old ones. Sculpture like the 



upper valve, except that it is more or less extensively foliated towards the beak. 



Length (alt.) of a lower valve 175 mm.; breadth 108 mm.; weight 32^ oz. 



anto Domingan ( )ligocene. This is the form identified by Gabb as Spondylus 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



Santo Domingo Oligocene, but that is a far more ponderous and 

 long-beaked species. 



Crassatellites reevei Gabb. PI. XXIII, fig. 5. 



Crassotella antillarum Reeve? = C. reevei Gabb, Topography and Geology 

 of Santo Domingo, p. 252. 



The shell is rather long, length over 1^ times the alt., anterior 

 end rounded, posterior end long, tapering, obliquely truncate at 

 the end. Beaks at the anterior third of the length. Ridge from 

 beak to post-basal angle is moderately prominent, broad and rounded, 

 and with the posterior slope above it has sculpture of growth- 

 lines only. A distinct angulation runs from beak to the upper pos- 

 terior angle. The escutcheon is moderately deep and flat, defined 

 by a ridge. A broad, shallow concavity terminating in a sinuation 

 of the basal margin precedes the post-basal ridge. The rest of the 

 surface is convex, closely, almost regularly costate concentrically, 

 the riblets about equal to their deep intervals. This sculpture 

 extends without irregularity upon the beak, which is rather flat- 

 tened. 



Length 56, alt. about 37, semidiameter 11 mm. 



This specimen was first identified by Gabb as perhaps C. antil- 

 larum Reeve, a recent species differing conspicuously in sculpture 

 and shape. No description has been published hitherto, Gabb's 

 notes being quite insufficient for identification. 



The type, Coll., A. N. S. P., is a right valve, collected by Gabb in 

 Santo Domingo. 



Crassatellites mediamericanus n. sp. PI. XXV, figs. 3-5. 



Crassatella madropsis Con., Gabb, Journ. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., VIII, 

 p. 345, pi. 44, fig. 20. Not Grateloupia mactropsis Conrad. 



The shell closely resembles C. reevei Gabb, from which it differs 

 in the following particulars. The posterior end is broader, tapering 

 much less; the terminal truncation is less oblique; no angulation 

 runs to the upper posterior angle of the valve. Finally, there are a 

 couple of concentric waves of much greater amplitude defining 

 the umbonal area, which bears about 5 small waves. In C. reevei 

 there is no such irregularity in the sculpture. 



Length about 53, alt. 41, diameter .25 mm. 



Sapote, Costa Rica, in a bed considered Miocene by Gabb. Co- 

 types Coll., A. N. S. P. 



Two imperfect individuals from Gabb's collection are figured, 

 pi. XXV, figs. 3, 4. We refer also to this species a shell, pi. XXV, 

 fig. 5, imbedded in hard matrix from the Pecten bed at Tower N, 

 Culebra Cut. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



So far as exposed, this fossil resembles the Costa Rican form, 

 but its condition does not admit a positive identification. As 

 this form is intimately related to C. reevei Gabb, of Santo Domingo, 

 wc subjoin some account of that species. 



Cardium (Trachycardium) durun n. sp. PI. XXIII, fig. 6. 



This species is represented by a cast of the right valve with the 

 inner layers of shell adhering. It is strongly convex with prominent, 

 very full beaks. Twenty-five strong, angular ribs are indicated, 

 those of the posterior margin terminate in teeth. There is some 

 indication that the ribs had lateral ridges. The posterior slope 

 shows a wide, shallow radial concavity. 



Length 39, alt. 41.5, semidiam. 19 mm. 



Gatun Formation at the Spillway. 



This is a longer shell than C. stiriatum B. and P., the valve- 

 margins being not far from circular, while in C. stiriatum the outline 

 is conspicuously oblong. 



Dosinia delicatissima n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. 1. 



Dosinia (Artemis) cf. Acetabulum Com 1 ., Toula, I.e., p. 727, pi. 27, figs. 8, So. 

 Specimens from the Spillway agree well with Dall's account and 

 figures of D. liogona Dall (Trans. Wagner Inst., Ill, p. 1230, pi. 53, 

 figs. 4, 7; pi. 54, fig. 11), except that the shell is remarkably thin for 

 a bivalve of this genus. A valve at least 60 mm. in length is only 

 1.3 mm. thick in the thickest part. Moreover, the sculpture does 

 not rise in "sharp fine lamellae towards the ends of the shell," as 

 described for that species. Towards the ends of the shell the con- 

 centric ridges between the grooves are more raised than in the middle 

 of the valves, but they are rather too thick and blunt to be called 

 lamellae. The specimens are all in poor condition so that the 

 sculpture of the beaks is a little in doubt, but from a small area 

 exposed in one specimen the very young shell would appear to be 

 smooth. 



Length 48, alt. 46, semidiameter about 11 mm. Less perfect 

 specimens than that figured are larger, up to 55 to 60 mm., or even 

 more. 



Very plentiful in the Gatum Formation at the Spillway. 



It occurs also in the Pecten bed at Tower N. 



The Miocene D. acetabulum Conr. is a decidedly more solid shell,' 

 noticeably differing from D. delicatissima in sculpture. 



Petricola millestriata n. sp. Pi. XXVI, fig. 2. 



The shell is short, the height contained about 1^ times in the length. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



1 teaks at the anterior T 4 T of the length, prominent; anterior end 

 rounded, posterior end wider, rounded in its lower half, obliquely 

 truncate above; basal margin evenly arcuate. The surface is 

 marked with unequal and mostly inconspicuous concentric wrinkles 

 and fine, close, radial threads, narrower than their intervals. 



Length 27, alt. 21, semidiam. 7.5 mm. 



Gatun Formation at the Spillway. 



A short, Tapes-like species with fine but distinct sculpture. On 

 the internal cast figured, the radial striae are obsolete towards the 

 two ends, but judging from an incomplete mould of the exterior, 

 the stria? extend undiminished nearly to the anterior end. The 

 interior is unknown. The shell was apparently quite thin. 

 Tellina aequiterminata n. sp. PI. XXVI. fig. 5. 



Known by a cast of the left valve, not differing much from T. 

 radiata in outline, but rather wider posteriorly and not twisted. 

 Beaks submedian; anterior end rather broadly rounded; posterior 

 end more tapering, but well rounded distally. The cast retains 

 vestiges of the external sculpture of concentric rather regular growth- 

 wrinkles. A low ridge indicates an impressed pallial line. The 

 capacious pallial sinus extends well beyond the beaks, and is appar- 

 ently confluent with the pallial line below, its upper line being well 

 arched. 



Length 44.5, alt. 24, diam. of left valve 5.5 mm. 



Gatun Formation at the Spillway. 

 Tellina (Eurytellina) vetula n. sp. Pi. XXVI, fig. 6. 



This species, known only by mutilated and imperfect remains, 

 is yet readily distinguishable by the sculpture of minute, crowded 

 concentric threads, narrower than their intervals, and about 12 

 to 15 in the space of 5 mm. in the lower half of the valve. 



There seems to be a rather emphatic radial sinuosity posteriorly; 

 the basal margin is well arched and the form rather broad. The 

 best-preserved example, which is imperfect anteriorly, has a length 

 of 43, alt, 29 mm. 



Pecten bed near Tower N, Culebra Cut. 

 Semele chipolana Dall. 



Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Sei,, III, p. 986, pi. 37, fig. 3. 



Pecten bed near Tower N. A nearly perfect mould of the left 

 valve, which agrees very well with Dall's account of this species 

 in shape and sculpture. The ample pallial sinus extends past the 

 middle of the valve. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



In S. sayi Toula the concentric sculpture seems to be decidedly 



closer. 



Thracia (Cyathodonta) gatunensis Toula. PI. XXVI, fig. 3. 



Thracia gatunensis Toula, Jahrb. k.k. Geol. Reichsanst., 190S, LVIII, p. 757; 

 text fig. 1"). 



The shell resembles Cyathodonta spencer i Dall 5 in contour, except 

 that it is apparently not quite so high. The right valve is rather 

 strongly convex, with sculpture of concentric ripples which are as 

 wide as their intervals or slightly wider. The ripples terminate 

 on the rounded ridge which defines the nearly smooth posterior 

 area of the valve. There is a minute irregularly granulose lineo- 

 lation along growth-lines, over the wave sculpture. 



Length 28.5, alt. 21, diam. of right valve about 8 mm. 



Spillway, Gatun Dam. 



While evidently akin to T. spenceri Dall, this species differs by 

 its sculpture, the former having concentric ripples narrower than 

 their intervals. The specimen figured is a right valve, the edge 

 partly imperfect, and the interior concealed by the hard rock. 

 Toula's specimen was larger, 52 mm. long, and the concentric ribs 

 are closer near the beaks. 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) hexacyma n. sp. PI. XXVI, fig. i. 



Known from the right valve only. The shell resembles C. vimi- 

 nea Guppy externally. The distinctly prosogyrate beaks are at 

 the anterior third of the length, smooth at the tip, posterior end 

 produced, terminating in a short, strongly oblique, straight trunca- 

 tion, the lower point projecting and acute, the basal margin is rather 

 deeply sinuated near the posterior end, elsewhere strongly arcuate. 

 Dorsal margin formed of two straight slopes meeting at an angle of 

 about 130 degrees. The posterior adductor impression rests upon 

 a thick raised ledge which extends obliquely across the posterior 

 end of the interior. There is no lunule. Externally a rather strong 

 keel runs from back to post-basal angle, and an inconspicuous 

 angulation runs to the upper angle of the posterior truncation, 

 defining a lanceolate depressed area. There are irregularly spaced 

 fine growth-wrinkles above the keel. The rest of the valve has a 

 sculpture of very fine, delicate radial threads, and 6 concentric 

 waves, the upper two weak, the others very strong. The region 

 of the beak has no concentric waves. A shell 7 mm. long would 

 show radial striatum only. 



'•> Trans. Wagner Free Institute of Science, III, p. 1527, Oligoceneof Guadaloupe. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Length of right valve 18.7, alt. 11, diameter 4.8 mm. 



Gatun Formation, from the excavation at the lower locks at Gatun. 



This species has much in common with such species of the sub- 

 genus Bothrocorbula as C. viminea Guppy and C. radiatula Dall, 

 and C. synarmostes Dall, but the total absence of any trace of a 

 lunular pit at once distinguishes the Gatun form. The small 

 number of concentric waves of the exterior separates C. hexacyma 

 from various species of Cuneocorbula, which otherwise resemble it 

 more or less. 



Explanation of Plates XXII-XXVI. 



Plate XXII. — Figs. 1-3. — Callianassa scotli n. sp. 



Fig. 4. — Pleurotoma (Gemmula) vaningeni n. sp. X 3. 



Fig. 5. — Fasciolaria gorgasiana n. sp. X 3. 



Figs. 6, 7. — Nassa (Hima) prceambigua n. sp. X 4. 



Fig. 8. — Pyrula micronematica n. sp. X 2.5. 



Fig. 9. — Natica bolus n. sp. X 3. 



Fig. 10. — Natica canalizonalis n. sp. X 3.5. 



Figs. 11, 12. — Bittium scotti n. sp. X 3.5. 



Fig. IS.—Sigarelus Eunaticina) gabbi n. sp. X 3.5. 



Plate XXIII. — Fig. 1. — Pecten (Amusium) luna n. sp. 



Fig. 2. — Pecten oxygonum optimum n. subsp. (Costa Rica). 



Fig. 3. — Pecten oxygonum canalis n. subsp. 



Fig. 4. — Area dalli n. sp. 



Fig. 5. — Crassatellites reevei Gabb. 



Fig. 6. — Cardium (Trachycardium) durum n. sp. 



Plate XXIV. — -Figs. 1, 2. — Pecten (Amusium) sol n. sp. 



Fig. 3. — Pecten (Euvola) reliquus n. sp. detail of sculpture. 



Plate XXV. — Figs. 1, 2. — Sporulylus scotti n. sp. 



Figs. 3, 4. — Crassatellites mediamericanus n. sp. (Costa Rica). 

 Fig. 5. — Crassatellites mediamericanus n. sp. 'Pecten Bed, Las Cascades, 

 C. Z. 



Plate XXVI. — Fig. 1. — Dosinia delicatissima n. sp. 

 Fig. 2. — Petricoli millestriata n. sp. 

 Fig. 3. — Thracia (Cyathodonta) gatunensis Toula. 

 Fig. 4. — Corbula (Cuneocorbula) hexacyma n. sp. 

 . Fig. 5. — Tellina cequiterminata n. sp. 

 Fig. 6. — Tellina (Eurytellina) vetula n. sp. 



34 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



FURTHER NOTES ON THE FLORA OF THE CONOWINGO OR SERPENTINE 

 BARRENS OF SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY FRANCIS W. PENNELL. 



Two years ago the writer published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences 1 an account of the flora of the 

 Conowingo or Serpentine Barrens of southeastern Pennsylvania. 

 Effort was made, by field collections and herbarium-study, to 

 form a reasonably complete list of the characteristic species. At 

 that time, however, he had been unable to make full collections 

 during June, and collections made at this season during 1911 and 

 1912 have shown a considerable number of omissions. As col- 

 lections have now been made during every month of the growing- 

 season, and it is believed a practically complete view of the flora 

 gained, it has seemed advisable to thoroughly revise and emend the 

 list previously offered. 



In addition to his own and Bayard Long's collections of the past 

 two seasons, he has had the opportunity of reviewing the valuable 

 material of Albert Commons recently presented to the Academy. 

 The Serpentine specimens in this collection are nearly all from 

 Centerville, Newcastle County, Del. As this locality is now 

 threatened with extinction, we are fortunate in possessing some 

 record of its flora. 



In the preparation of these notes he has been much indebted 

 to Mr. Bayard Long, who throughout has given him most valu- 

 able assistance. He is also indebted to Mr. Eugene P. Bicknell for 

 verification of certain determinations in Agrostis and Car ex. 



As some of the locality names used do not appear on the local 

 maps, it may, though late, be of service to indicate by latitude 

 and longitude the location of each barren. Each area may 

 so be found either on the Philadelphia Geological Folio, where the 

 Serpentine areas are indicated in green and labelled "sp," or on the 

 Soil Survey of Chester County, where the more definite Conowingo 

 Barrens are indicated in yellow and labelled "Cb." 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (October, 1910), pp. 541-584. Issued January 13, 




1912.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 521 



Chester Group: 



Delaware County — 



1. Fawkes Run (Newtown) 75° 22' 48" W. x 39° 59' 40" N. 



2. Preston Run 75° 26' x 39° 58' 30" 



3. Bear Hill 75° 23' 20" x 39° 57' 



4. Blue Hill 75° 24' 40" x 39° 57' 



5. Middletown Township — 



(a) Mineral Hill 75° 24' 55" x 39° 55' 10" 



(6) Barrens of Middletown 75° 25' 45" x 39° 55' 45" 



(c) Williamson 75° 25' 40" x 39° 54' 30" 



(d) Glen Riddle 75° 25' 50" x 39° 54' 25" 



(e) Lenni 75° 26' 30" x 39° 53' 50" 



(/) Wawa 75° 26' 30" x 39° 54' 20" 



Chester County — ■ 



6. Serpentine Ridge — 



(a) Paoli 75° 29' W. x 40° 1' 40" N. 



(6) Sugartown Barrens 75° 30' x 40° 1' 



(c) Narrow extension from this, trending west-southwest to 

 Goshenville, the Serpentine Ridge of records. 



7. Cedar Barrens (marked "Cs" 



on Soil Survey) 75° 29' 15" W. x 39° 57' 50" N. 



8. West Chester (Fern Hill) 75° 35' 40" x 39° 59' 



9. (a) Sconnelltown (not la- 



' belled on Soil Survey 75° 37' 30" x 39° 56' 7" 



(6) Strode's Mill (not in- 

 dicated on Soil Survey) 75° 37' 8" x 39° 55' 40" 



10. Brinton's Quarry (not la- 



belled on Soil Survey) 75° 35' 40" x 39° 54' 50" 



11. Marshallton (not labelled on 



Soil Survey) 75° 40' x 39° 59' 



12. Unionville 75° 43' x 39° 54' 40" 



Newcastle County — 



13. Centerville 



State-line Group: 



14. Nottingham Barrens (Ches- 



ter County) — 



(a) Nottingham 76° 1' 30" W. x 39° 44' 20" N. 



(6) Goat Hill 76° 5' x 39° 43' 30" 



15. Other specimens, mainly collected by J. J. Carter, are cited 



from points in southern Lancaster County. 



The emendations of the list of component species require a few 

 changes in the descriptive text: 



Page 545, line 18 — For Aster parviceps pusillus here and through- 

 out read Aster depauperatus. 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Page 545, line 5 from bottom — To list of constant grasses and 

 sedges of park-like openings add: Sphenopholis obtusata, Carex 

 annectens, Carex scoparia, Carex normalis. 



Page 546, line 2 from bottom— To species of moist open depressions 

 add: Agrostis antecedens, Carex lanuginosa, Carex leersii, Carex 

 incomperta, Carex interior, and J uncus dichotomus platyphyllus. 

 All but the first and last are quite local. 



Page 547, line 24 — To list of species found only on State-line 

 Barrens add: Carex leersii Willd. 



Page 547, line 8 from bottom — Strike out Scutellaria parvula 

 ambigua. 



Page 548, line 4 — Strike out Sphenopholis obtusata pubescens. 



Page 549, lines 6 and 12 — For Sphenopholis obtusata pubescens read 

 Sphenopholis obtusata. 



Page 549, line 19 — Read: and reported from adjacent West Vir- 

 ginia. As shown in discussion under Aster depauperatus, such 

 distribution is quite improbable. 



I. Emendations of the List of Species composing the Flora of 



THE CONOWINGO BARRENS. 



Insert the following corrections and additions under their re- 

 spective numbers, symbols and county names, Delaware and Chester, 

 as in original list. Records from Newcastle County, Delaware, 

 are added. As before, unless otherwise credited, all records are 

 represented by specimens of the writer's collecting. 



fl. Osmunda spectabilis. For L. read Willd. 



f6. Pinus virginiana Mill. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



fl8. Panicum depauperatum Muhl. Add: 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill, Williamson. 

 Newcastle. — Centerville. 



fl9. Panicum linearifolium Scribn. Read: 

 Local on dry barrens. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run. 

 ( hester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Panicum huachuce silvicola Hitchc. and Chase. Add: 

 Chester.— Paoli; Serpentine Ridge (B. Long). 



Nottingham Barrens. 

 Newcastle. ( !enterville. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



Insert: 

 f23A. Panicum villosissimum Nash. 



Occasional on dry barrens. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Williamson (B. Long). 



Chester. — West Chester. 



J26. Panicum boscii Poir. 



This is P. boscii molle (Vasey) Hitchc. if the form can be dis- 

 tinguished. Add: 



Delaware. — Preston Run. 



f35. Muhlenbergia foliosa Trin. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (E. B. Bartram.) 



|39. Agrostis antecedens Bicknell. 2 Read: 



Frequent on moist to desiccated soil. This June-flowering plant 

 appears quite distinct from the late-flowering A. hyemalis (Walt.) 

 B. S. P., with which it has been confused. Its characteristics 

 have been clearly pointed out by Mr. E. P. Bicknell, to whom I am 

 indebted for confirmation of this determination. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Williamson. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 



— ■ Nottingham Barrens. 



41. Danthonia spicata (L.) Beauv. Add: 



Delaware. — Bear Hill. 



Chester. — Paoli; Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens; West Ches- 

 ter. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 |44a. Sphenopholis obtusata (Michx.) Scribn. 



Frequent on dry open barren. Normally more or less scabrous, 

 at least on the lower sheaths. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill. 

 Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f45. Sphenopholis, obtusata pubescens (Scribn. and Merr.) 

 Scribn. Read: 



2 Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, XXXV (1908), 473. 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Frequent on dry open barren. With the last, and intergrading 

 with it. 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Bear Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert: 

 45a. Panicularia nervata (Willd.) Kuntze. 



Common in moist soil, Serpentine swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



*50. Fimbristylis laxa Vahl. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



f51. Scirpus atrovirens Muhl. Add: 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



f54. Scleria pauciflora Muhl. Add: 

 Newcastle.- — Centerville (A. Commons). 



56. Carex lurida Wahl. Read: 



Common in Serpentine swamps. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West Chester; 

 Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f57. Carex hystericina Muhl. Read: 



Frequent or local in Serpentine swamps. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 f57A. Carex lanuginosa Michx. 



Frequent in Serpentine swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester.— Serpentine Ridge; West Chester. 




1912.]' NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Insert : 

 57b. Carex stricta Lam. 



Frequent in Serpentine swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester.- — Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



58. Carex triceps hirsuta (Willd.) Bailey. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville. 



Insert : 

 58a. Carex triceps bushii (Mackenzie) Stone. 3 



Dry open barren, on State-line Barrens only. 

 Chester.— Nottingham Barrens. 



f59. Carex glaucodea Tuckerm. Read: 



Frequent on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester.— Paoli ; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens; West^Chester; 

 Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Lancaster. — New Texas (J. J. Carter). 

 Newcastle. — Centerville. 



Insert : 

 59a. Carex tjmbellata abdita (Bicknell) Stone. 4 



Occasional on dry barrens, edges of woodland. 

 Chester. — Paoli; Marshallton (B. Long). 



Insert : 

 59b. Carex willdenovii Schkuhr. 



Dry rocky woodland. 



Newcastle.- — Centerville (A. Commons). 



60. Carex vulpinoidea Michx. Read: 



Frequent in moist soil. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens ^West'Chester. 



3 Annual Report New Jersey State Museum (1910), 299. 



4 Annual Report New Jersey State Museum (1910), 305. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Insert : 

 60a. Carex annectens Bicknell. 5 



Frequent on dry open barrens. 

 Delaware.— Mineral Hill; Williamson; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Paoli; Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar 

 Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f61. Carex retroflexa Muhl. Read: 



Local on moist depressions or grassy open. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Mineral Hill. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 161a. Carex leersii Willd. 6 



Moist soil along stream. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert: 

 f6lB. Carex incomperta Bicknell. 7 



Locally abundant in Serpentine swamps. Identification con- 

 firmed by Mr. E. P. Bicknell. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



Insert : 

 f61c. Carex interior Bailey. 



Locally abundant in Serpentine swamps. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



62. Carex scoparia Schkuhr. Read: 



Common on dry barrens. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar 

 Barrens; West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



ill. Torr. Bot. Club, XXXV (1908), 492. 

 c Cf. Mackenzie, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, XXXVII (1910), 245. 

 ' Bull. Ton: Bot. Club, XXXV (1908), 494. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Insert: 



62a. Carex normalis Mackenzie. 8 



Frequent or local on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill; Mineral Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester (B. Long). 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 62b. Carex hormathodes richii Fernald. 



Moist soil along stream. It seems unnatural to consider this 

 inland plant a variety of Carex hormathodes, characteristic of the 

 salt marshes along the coast, but in the material at hand I cannot 

 feel confident in separating them. Richii appears to differ in its 

 smaller, broader perigynia, at maturity less prominently nerved, 

 its achene relatively more turgid, dull, not glistening as in horma- 

 thodes. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge. 



*63. Carex bicknellii Britton. Read: 



Local on dry open barrens. 



Delaware.— Bear Hill; Williamson; Glen Riddle. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; West Chester; Brinton's Quarry. 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



64. Juncus effusus L. Read: 



Common in Serpentine .swamps. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Cedar Barrens; West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



165. Juncus tenuis Willd. Add: 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



Chester. — Paoli; Serpentine Ridge (B. Long). 



f66. Juncus secundus Beauv. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



Insert: 

 |66a. Juncus dichotomus platyphyllus Wiegand. 



*BuU. Ton. Bot. Club, XXXVII (1910), 244. 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Frequent in moist soil. In a forthcoming paper Mr. Bayard 

 Long and the writer hope to present evidence for considering this 

 a distinct species. All discussion accordingly is deferred. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



Oiester.— Paoli; West Chester; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



70. Juncoides campestre (L.) Kuntze. Read: 



Frequent on edge of greenbrier or woodland. Plant habitually 

 tufted, a number of stems from one root, no trace of bulb-like or 

 tuber-like swellings at base. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Williamson. 



Chester.— Paoli; Serpentine Ridge (B. Long); Cedar Barrens; 

 Cnionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 |70a. Juncoides bulbosum (Wood) Small. 



Occasional on moist open barren. Plant not tufted, one or 

 occasionally two stems from one root, bulb-like or tuber-like swell- 

 ings at base evident, sometimes large. 



Chester.— West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



f75. Smilax herbacea crispifolia Pennell. 



Intergrades with the species, S. herbacea L. of moist woodland, 

 though commonly distinguishable. Undoubtedly a xerophytic de- 

 rivative of this. Add: 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Glen Riddle. 



Chester— West Chester (S. S. Van Pelt). 



Some specimens from Cedar Barrens and Nottingham Barrens 

 appear transitional to species. 



|78. Sisyrinchium mucronatum Michx. Add: 

 Delaware.- — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert: 

 78a. Gyrostachys beckii (Lindl.) Stone. 9 

 Probably occasional on dry open barrens. 

 Newcastle- < Vnterville (A. Commons). 



Annual lib-port New Jersey State Museum (1910), 375. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



J79. Gyrostachys gracilis (Bigel.) Kuntze. Add: 

 Delaware. — Wawa. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



Insert : 

 79a. Leptorchis liliifolia (L.) Kuntze. 

 Occasional on moist shaded banks. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens; Unionville. 



80. Leptorchis loeselii (L.) MacM. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



*90. Quercus marylandica Muench. 

 Hybridizes freely with other species. 

 Q. marylandica x velutina t 

 Delaware. — Middletown Barrens. 

 Q. marylandica x stellata ? 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



|92. Quercus stellata Wang. Add: 

 Newcastle.— Centerville (A. Commons) . 



f94. Quercus prinoides Willd. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons) . 

 Q. prinoides x alba f 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



|95. COMANDRA UMBELLATA (L.) Nutt. Add: 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Paoli. 



*97. Talinum teretifolium Pursh. Add: 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



*99. Cerastium oblongifolium Torr. Add: 

 Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 

 Newcastle. — Centerville; Mt. Cuba (A. Commons). 



*100. Arenaria stricta Michx. Add: 



Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



102. Thalictrum revolutum D. C. Add: 

 Delaware. — Wawa (leaves glandular-puberulent beneath). 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



fl04. Arabis lyrata L. Add: 

 Newcastle.— Centerville (A. Commons). 



105. Saxifraga yirginiensis Michx. Add: 



Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



107. Rubus frondosus Bigel. Add: 

 ( 'hester. — West Chester. 



Insert: 

 J 107a. Rubus villosus Ait. 



Frequent on edge of dry barrens. All have one-flowered branches, 

 but I cannot distinguish satisfactorily R. villosus enslenii (Tratt.) 

 from the species. The form I assume typical has three distinct 

 leaflets, sharply serrate, others (indicated by asterisk) have leaves 

 1-3-foliate, coarsely toothed, and may be R. invisus (Bailey) Britton. 



Delaware— Fawkes Run* (B. H. Smith); Blue Hill; William- 

 son.* 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge*; West Chester. 



110. Rosa humilis Marsh. Read: 



There seem to be two tendencies in this species with us, extreme 

 forms seeming quite different, but I find it impossible satisfactorily 

 to separate intermediates. Any lines of separation seem artificial. 

 Both are frequent on open barren and about margin of greenbrier. 



A. Leaves lanceolate to lanceolate-ovate, acutish to acuminate 

 at apex, finely and sharply serrate, 2.5-4 cm. long. Spines slender, 

 straight. Fruiting pedicels slender. Plant low, of drier situations. 

 Probably to be considered typical R. humilis Marsh. 



Delaware. — Fawkes Run; Mineral Hill; Williamson. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens; Cedar Barrens. 



B. Leaves broadly ovate to orbicular-ovate, mostly rounded to 

 acutish at apex, more coarsely serrate, 2-4 cm. long. Spines stouter, 

 somewhat recurved. Fruiting pedicels stouter. Plant taller, of 

 moister situations. Possibly this the R. palustris of Marshall. 



Delaware. Bear Hill; Middletown Barrens; Williamson; Glen 

 Riddle; Wawa. 



Chester. — Paoli; Serpentine Ridge; West Chester; Brinton's 

 Quarry; Unionville. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



Insert : 

 110a. Malus coronaria (L.) Mill. 

 In border-woodland. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



111. Aronia nigra (Willd.) Britton. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



119. Meibomia rigida (Ell.) Kuntze. Add: 



v. 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (E. B. Bartram). 



Insert : 

 123a. Lespedeza nuttallii Darl. 

 Probably occasional on dry open barren. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



fl25. Lespedeza virginica (L.) Britton. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (A. S. Haines). 



126. Lespedeza hirta (L.) Hornem. Read: 

 Frequent on dry open barren and margin of greenbrier. 

 Delaware. — Preston Run; Lenni. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens (A. S. Haines). 



131. Linum intercursum Bicknell. 10 Read: 



Occasional on dry open barren. Mr. Bicknell has recently pointed 

 out reasons for considering our plant, in the north mainly restricted 

 to the Coastal Plain, as distinct from L. floridanum (Planch.) Trel. 

 of the south. 



Delaware. — Bear Hill. 



Chester. — Paoli (E. B. Bartram) ; Sugartown Barrens. 



— Nottingham Barrens (A. S. Haines, B. Long). 



fl43. Helianthemum majus (L.) B. S. P. Add: 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



144. Lechea minor L. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



147. Viola pedata lineariloba D. C. Add: 

 Delaware. — Fawkes Run (W. Stone). 



10 Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, XXXIX (1912), 418. 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



fl48. Viola fimbriatula Sm. Add: 

 Chester.— Paoli; Marshallton (B. Long). 

 Newcastle. — Centerville. 



fl49. Kneiffia linearis (Michx.) Spach. Read: 



Local on dry open barren and banks. Our plant appears to have 

 capsules less densely and permanently pubescent than in the coastal 

 plant. In similar situations, less frequent than K. fruticosa, with 

 which to some extent it may intergrade. 



Delaware. — Preston Run (J. W. Harshberger) ; Mineral Hill; 

 Williamson; Wawa. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge; Cedar Barrens. 



— ■ Nottingham Barrens. 



150. Kneiffia fruticosa (L.) Raimann. Read: 



Common on dry open barren and banks. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Williamson. 



Chester. — Paoli; Sugartown Barrens; Serpentine Ridge; Cedar 

 Barrens; West Chester; Union ville. 



Insert : 

 150a. Zizia aurea (L.) Koch. 

 Local in moist soil. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



154. Azalea nudiflora L. Read: 

 Frequent on edges of woodland or thicket. 

 Delaware. — Mineral Hill; Wawa. 

 Chester. — Unionville. 

 — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 154a. Azalea nudiflora glandifera Porter. 



Local on edges of woodland or thicket. Pubescence of corolla-tube 

 and capsule more or less glandular. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 

 Chester. — West Chester. 



Insert : 

 158a. Vaccinium corymbosum L. 



Occasional on dry barren or edges of woodland. Leaves pubes- 

 cent on midrib and veins beneath. 

 Chester. — Paoli. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



Insert : 

 158b. Vaccinium cesariense Mackenzie. 11 



Occasional on dry barren or edges of woodland. Leaves quite 

 glabrous on both surfaces. 

 Chester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



159. Vaccinium atrococcum (Gray) Heller. Read: 



Occasional on dry barren or edges of woodland. Leaves pubescent 

 over entire lower surface. Judging by leaf pubescence alone, we 

 have three tall blueberries occasional upon the Serpentine. I have 

 not had opportunity to collect in this habitat flowers or fruit of 

 corymbosum or of ccesariense. 

 Delaware. — Williamson ; Wawa. 



Chester. — Paoli (E. B. Bartram, B. Long); Sugartown Barrens; 

 West Chester. 



161. Vaccinium vacillans Kalm. 



Leaves quite glabrous beneath. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 



161a. Vaccinium vacillans crinitum Fernald. 12 



Occasional or local in borders of woodland. Leaves pubescent 

 beneath. 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 165a. Gentiana villosa L. 



Dry woodland. Beside the following specimen seen, Dr. Samuel 

 Trimble has mentioned to me finding this species upon the Ser- 

 pentine at Williamson. 



Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



166. Asclepias purpurascens L. Add: 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 

 Chester. — Paoli. 



*167. Asclepias verticillata L. Add. 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



"Torreya, X (1910), 230. 

 uRhodora, XIII (1911), 235. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF IDeC, 



*170. Scutellaria parvula ambigua (Nutt.) Fernald. Add: 



( 'hester. — Serpentine Ridge. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert: 

 172a. Leptandra virginica (L.) Nutt. 



Occasional in moist soil. Our plant has the leaves downy- 

 pubescent beneath; the normal plant in this district has leaves 

 smooth or less pubescent beneath. 



Chester. — West Chester. 



— Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



176. Houstonia ccerulea L. Add: 



Chester. — Paoli. 



— Nottingham Barrens. 



{177. Mitchella repens L. Add: 

 Chester. — Paoli; Cedar Barrens. 



178. Galium pilosum Ait. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



180. Lonicera sempervirens L. Add: 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



182. Hieracium venosum L. Add. 



Delaware. — Mineral Hill. 



Chester. — Paoli (this plant, green, with two stem-leaves, may be 

 H. marianum Willd. I cannot distinguish the form). 



191. Lacinaria spicata (L.) Kuntze. Add: 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (A. S. Haines). 



195. Solidago aspera Ait. 

 Apparently an extreme form of S. rugosa Mill. 



*206. Aster depauperatus (Porter) Fernald. 



I prefer to consider this a species distinct from Aster parviceps 

 (Burgess) Mack, and Bush, with which Prof. Fernald unites it. 

 < hir plant is very slender, its stem smooth or nearly so, its stem- 

 leaves linear, those of the branches minute and mostly appressed, its 

 heads slightly smaller — all points of contrast — while quite significant 

 is the wide break in range between the two. Aster depauperatus ap- 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



pears to be known as yet only from the Serpentine Barrens of Dela- 

 ware, Chester, and Lancaster Counties, Pennsylvania, apparently 

 strictly restricted to such soil. Doubtless it extends over the boundary 

 into Cecil County, Maryland, and possibly beyond. As Serpentine 

 Barrens exist only in this corner of Pennsylvania, and do not exist 

 at all in West Virginia, the range as given in the new Gray's Manual 

 is impossible. If the plant does occur as reported in West Virginia, 

 it must be on some other soil, not on adjacent Serpentine areas. 



208. Antennaria neodioica Greene. Add: 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



210. Antennaria plantaginifolia (L.) Richards. Add: 

 Zoster.— Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



f212. Heliopsis helianthoides (L.) Sweet. 



Varies greatly even in same colony in relative width of leaf, also 

 in roughness of its upper surface from nearly smooth to quite sca- 

 brous. Within our range, I do not think H. scabra Dunal can be 

 distinguished. 



f215. Senecio balsamit^e Muhl. Add: 

 Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons). 



11. Emendations of the List of Occasional Species of the 



Conowingo Flora. 

 Insert : 



0a. Botrychium obliquum Muhl. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



Insert : 

 Ob. Adiantum pedatum L. 



Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 

 Insert : 



6a. PASPALUM L.EVE AUSTRALE Nash. 



Chester. — Serpentine Ridge. 



7. Paspalum l,eve circulare (Nash) Stone. 13 Add: 

 Chester.- — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



12. Paniccm lindheimeri Nash. Add: 

 Chester.- — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



13 Annual Report New Jersey State Museum (1910), 187. 

 35 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



[nsert: 

 L2a. Panicum meridionale Ashe. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



Insert : 

 15a. Ch.etochloa imberbis (Poir.) Scribn. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



Strike out: 



16. Panicularia nervata (Willd.) Kuntze. 



17. Cyperus rivularis Kunth. Not C. diandrus Torr. as pre- 

 vious^ reported. 



Insert : 

 19a. Scirpus validus Vahl. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



Insert: 

 19b. Rynchospora smallii Britton. 

 Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 



Insert: 

 20a. Carex vestita Willd. 

 ( 'hester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert: 

 20b. Carex granularis Muhl. 

 Dela ware. — Williamson. 



Insert : 

 20c Carex laxiculmis Schwein. 

 Newcastle.—- Centerville (A. Commons). 



Insert : 

 20d. Carex pennsylvanica Lam. 

 Delaware. — W T awa. 

 Newcastle.— Centerville (A. Commons). 



Insert ; 

 20e. Carex nigromarginata Schwein. 

 Newcastle.— Centerville (A. Commons). 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



Insert : 

 20f. Carex stipata Muhl. 



Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 20g. Carex rosea Schkuhr. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill. 



Insert : 

 20h. Carex cephalophora Muhl. 

 Delaware. — Glen Riddle. 



Insert : 

 20i. Carex muhlenbergii Schkuhr. 

 Delaware. — Wajva. 



Insert : 

 21a. Uvularia perfoliata L. 



Delaware. — Preston Run; Bear Hill. 



22. Polygonatum commutatum (R. and S.) Dietr. Add: 

 Delaware. — Glen Riddle. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 



Insert : 



23a. Sisyrinchium gramineum Curtis. 

 Chester. — Paoli. 



33. Benzoin ^stivale (L.) Nees. 



Delaware. — Williamson. • 



Insert : 

 34a. Rubus argutus Link. 

 Chester. — Cedar Barrens. 

 - — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



36. Amelanchier l.evis Wiegand. 



Chester. — L T nionville (Dr. K. M. Wiegand determines this specimen 

 as a probable hybrid between A. Icevis and A. oblongifolia (T. and 

 G.) Roem. 



— Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec. 



[nsert: 

 36a. Peunus amekicana Marsh. 



Chester. Brinton's Quarry. 



[nsert : 

 36b. Cracca virginiana L. 



Newcastle. — Centerville (A. Commons.) 



[nsert : 

 37a. Geranium maculatum L. 



Delaware. — -Mineral Hill. 



Insert : 

 43a. Rhus radicans L. 

 ( 'luster. — Cedar Barrens. 



Insert : 

 46a. Viola emarginata Le Conte. 

 Delaware. — Bear Hill. 



Insert : 

 46b. Viola conspersa Reichenb. 

 Chester. — Marshallton (B. Long). 



Insert: 

 47a. Cham,enerion angustifolium (L.) Scop. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens (B. Long). 



Insert : 

 48a. Cicuta maculata L. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



63. Ciiimaphila umbellata (L.) Nutt. Add: 

 ( 'hester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



[nsert : 

 53a. Azalea viscosa glauca Michx. 

 ( 'hester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



[nsert: 



58a. Convolvulus spitham.eus L. 

 Delaware. — Williamson. 



Strike out: 

 61. Scutellaria pilosa Michx. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



62. Scutellaria integrifolia L. Add: 

 Chester. — Unionville. 



Strike out: 

 65. Leptandra yirginica (L.) Nutt. 



Insert : 

 68a. Galium claytoni Michx. 

 Chester. — Nottingham Barrens. 



Insert : 

 71a. Krigia virginica (L.) Willd. 



Appearing as if introduced. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 



( 'hester. — Sugartown Barrens. 



Insert : 

 73a. Eupatorium purpureum L. 



Delaware. — Williamson. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



THE PR0T0C0NCH OF ACM.EA. 

 BY WILL F. THOMPSON. 



The protoconchs or embryonic shells of the Mollusca have been 

 used by various writers as indicating the status of the various 

 groups and their line of descent. The Acmaeidse have many primi- 

 t ive characters, and it would be expected that the embryonic stages 

 of the shell would show a like condition. It has been stated that 

 these forms possess a coiled nautiloid protoconch by Grabau. '03; 

 Pelseneer, '06; Fisher, '04; Verrill, '96, and others. In a recent 

 article by Morse, '10, this is declared erroneous, and figures and 

 descriptions are given of a stage of Acmcea testudinalis in which there 

 is shown "simply a csecal-like shell with slight dorsal flexure" 

 and "a slight elongated area rounded anteriorly" at either side 

 where the embryonic shell joins the permanent. 



The specimens of Acmcea cited by Dr. W. K. Fisher were given to me 

 by Dr. Harold Heath, with the request that I investigate them. I 

 thank him for his kindness, as well as Dr. J. P. Smith. 



The material was imbedded in very hard paraffin, either entire 

 or in part decalcified, and sectioned. This method gave but poor 

 results, and better were obtained by observing the specimens in 

 reflected light under high powers of the microscope. By carefully 

 working over the debris picked up with the young limpets, decol- 

 lated shells were found without the embryo within them and hence 

 iii excellent condition for observation. All the material came from 

 the tide pools of Monterey Bay, but the species could of course not 

 be certainly identified. 



The general appearance of the shell may be seen in fig. 1. A 

 slight asymmetry is visible, the posterior apex of the protoconch 

 being to the left of the adult axis, although symmetrical to that of 

 i In larva itself. In view of the presence in nearly related mollusks 

 of naticoid and planorbid coils, this probably has but very little 

 significance. The " lateral folds " of Morse, TO, are very evident 

 and easily seen (fig. 2), leading, if seen from one side, to the appear- 

 ance of a true spiral coil, but present on both sides. The right-hand 

 one is in the greater number of cases slightly longer than the left, 

 in harmony with the slight asymmetry. As may be seen in figs. 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



541 



2 and 3, the margin of the embryonic shell and its connection with 

 that of the permanent patelloid shell is in the plane of the lower 

 edge of the lateral pouches or folds of Morse. The first of the 

 growth lines of the patelloid shell run under the protoconch below 



Fig. 2. — Protoconch of Acmoea 

 sp. from side, showing first of 

 adult shell. Line of base of 

 protoconch indicated by ar- 



rnws. 



Fig. 1. — Acmoea sp. Protoconch 

 on first of adult shell. 



Fig. 3. — Protoconch and first of adult shell of 

 Acmoea sp. showing growth lines, upper edge 

 of adult shell indicated by the arrow. Cam- 

 era lucida, looking at the bottom and one side. 



Fig. -t. — Protoconch of A cmcea sp. 

 a, Sagittal section through cen- 

 tre of shell, on line of be of 

 fig. 1. b, Somewhat oblique 

 section on line ab of fig. 1. 



the middle of the lateral " pouches "' (fig. 3), as may be seen in 

 Morse's fig. 5, although his fig. 4 shows a different condition. 



In sagittal section there is shown merely a csecal-like shell with 

 the suggestion of a coil in the form of the ridge or inner anterior 

 margin of the protoconch (fig. 4a). This appearance is further 

 strengthened by the section of a shell with the animal still within 

 it (fig. 5). The shell in this has been slightly decalcified. By 

 making a somewhat oblique section of one side (fig. 46), a still 




542 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Fig. 5. — Acmoea sp. 



Section of protoconch with portion of young still within it. 

 Shell stippled. 



more striking appearance of a coil is obtained. This is true of both 

 sides of the protoconch. The lateral edges, then, of this ridge 

 shown in the median sections of the shell are simply turned back 

 or " coiled " to a greater degree than the central part and the lateral 

 marks are the external evidences of this condition, the "folds" 

 being the union of the ridge with the outer wall of the shell. This 

 is shown in figs. 2 and 6. 



If this were a true coil the lines of growth would be expected to 

 bear it out. By observation under the high powers in direct re- 

 flected light it is possible to discern these lines in the species under 

 consideration. They are very regular, clear, and well marked. In 

 fig. 3 a camera lucida drawing is shown. Their center seems to be 

 on the lower surface of the protoconch. Those of the lateral pouches 

 are shown to be parallel to their long axis and not conformant 

 below the shell to those behind them. What the significance of this 

 state of affairs may be I cannot hazard a guess, and it appears as 

 though its explanation must await the complete working out of the 

 embryology which Patten was unable to carry so far. The embryo 

 in the youngest stages which I sectioned occupies these corners 

 with portions of the liver. Judging from the lines of growth, one 

 would be tempted to think that these pouches were formed later 




1912. 



.NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



543 



than the middle portion of the protoconch and subsequent to a 

 resorption of the posterior edge. If they were remnants of a true 

 coil it would be expected that growth should take place in them 

 first. 



As mentioned above, the liver, at the earliest stage I had, occupied 

 a part of the protoconch with its large granulated cells (fig. 5). 

 In company with it was one loop of the large, thin-walled alimentary 

 canal. This is well past the veliger stage and when the embryo 

 is fairly complex. There were no gills present. At a period slightly 

 later than the stage represented in fig. 1, the protoconch is broken 

 off, leaving a cicatrix. The lower part of the primitive shell seems 

 in some cases at least to remain on the patelloid shell to form the 

 posterior part of the cicatrix. This has been fully described by 

 previous authors. 



In conclusion, it may be stated that the protoconch gives more 

 evidences of being a simple caecal-like shell than coiled, although 

 the evidences are open to other interpretations. The slight coil of 

 the body and shell and a tendency of the shells to form more rapidly 

 anteriorly than posteriorly at first would indicate the presence 



Fig. 6. — Protoconch and beginning of permanent shell of Acmcea sp. in optical 

 section, from dorsal surface, r, Ridge at upper line of lateral pouch. 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



of a coil in the ancestral shell, which may have been altered by 

 caeogenetic variation and the resorption of parts. The structure 

 and disposal of the growth lines, the simple character of the lateral 

 pouches and their small size in proportion to the size of the egg and 

 larva, indicate that they are caused by something other than a 

 coil. Trochus, Natica, A r assa, Eolis, or Ammonite and nautiloid 

 protoconchs do not seem to differ much from the structure described 

 above. 



Literature. 



I >all, W. H. 1890. Tertiary Mollusks of Florida, Trans. Wagner Free Institute, 



III, 1S90, p. 295. 

 Fisher, \Y. K. 1904. The Anatomy of Lottia gigantea Gray, Zoologischr 



Jalcrbucher, Abth. f. Anat,, Vol. 20. pp. 1-86, pis. 1-4. 

 Grabau. 1903. Studies on Gastropoda, American Naturalist, Vol. XXXVI 



p. 919; XXXVII, No. 440, p. 515. 

 Morse, E. S. 1910. An Early Stage of Acmaea, Proceedings of the Boston 



Society of Natural Histonj, Vol. 34, No. 8, pp. 313-323, February, 1910. 

 Patten, W. 1886. The Embryology of Patella, Arbeiten aus dern Zoolog- 



ischen Institute der Universitdt Wien, Vol. 6, pp. 149-174, pis. 1-5. 

 Pelseneer, Paul. 1906. In Lankaster's Treatise on Zoology, Part V, Mollusca, 



A. and C. Black, London, 1900. 

 Verrill, A. E. 1896. The Molluscan Archetype considered as a Veliger-like 



Form, with discussions of certain points in Molluscan Morphology, American 



Journal of Science (4th Series), Vol. 11, No. 8, August. 1896. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



The following Reports were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



Because, probably, of the division of Science into specialties, 

 it becomes increasingly difficult to maintain interest in the meetings 

 of a society devoted, as the Academy is, to research in the entire 

 field of physics and natural history. In the absence of solicited 

 communications taking more or less the form of lectures, and all 

 the more likely to secure a moderate audience if illustrated by lan- 

 tern views which would be even more attractive could they be 

 presented in the form of moving pictures, there seems no reason, 

 beyond the requirements of routine business, generally irksome, 

 for the holding of the sessions provided for by the by-laws. The 

 practice of reporting in verbal communications the results of current 

 original research has almost entirely ceased, although thirty or 

 forty years ago it was a most important means of sustaining the 

 interest of the meetings, giving distinction to the minutes, and adding 

 to the value of the publications. 



When Leidy, or Cassin, or Meehan, or Cope, or Ryder, or Heil- 

 prin had found out anything, had a new fact or the confirmation 

 of an old one to tell of, they resorted to the "verbal," a substantive 

 with quite a special significance as used in the Academy. These 

 verbal communications were generally reported by the authors for 

 the pages of the Proceedings. For some years back, to the impov- 

 erishment of the meetings, such contributions to science are either 

 embedded in a formal paper presented for publication and seldom or 

 never read except by title, or they are made known to the world in 

 little notes to Science or some other current periodical. 



The consideration of a possible remedy for the existing subsidence 

 of interest in the meetings of the Academy has been referred, to a 

 committee, and it may be that the result will be beneficial. 



Thirteen meetings have been held since last November, with 

 an average attendance of fifty-one — a much higher average than has 

 been recently reported. This is, however, due to the extraordinary 

 attendance on the sessions of the meeting held March 19, 20, and 

 21, in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec.,. 



founding of the Academy. The event was considered memorable 

 by t he entire learned world, as evinced by the reception of 405 letters, 

 telegrams and cards of acknowledgment and congratulation from 

 institutions and correspondents and the appointment of 194 dele- 

 gates by learned societies at home and abroad. 



A lull report of this most interesting event in the history of the 

 Academy has been printed and distributed as the first part of the 

 fifteenth volume of the quarto Journal. The entire volume has 

 been specially prepared and is now placed before the meeting in a 

 form befitting in its dignity the culmination of the Academy's dis- 

 tinguished contributions to science since 1817, when the publication 

 of the unpretentious first number of the octavo Journal was 

 evidence of the sustained faith of the founders in the dignity of 

 their mission. The contrast of the struggling Academy of 1817, 

 meeting in the little house up Gilliam's Court, with the society as 

 now established and endowed is scarcely greater than that of the 

 first issued volume with the sumptuous quarto just completed. 



The centenary meeting was addressed by the Mayor, the President, 

 the Recording Secretary, and twenty-four members and correspondents. 

 Nearly all of the communications, presented also as contributions 

 to the commemorative quarto, were epitomized for the preliminary 

 report in the Proceedings of last March. The celebration cul- 

 minated in a banquet attended by 160 delegates, members, and 

 guests, at which eight congratulatory addresses were made after 

 the discussion of an elegant and sufficient bill of fare. 



The permanent memorials of the event will consist of the volume 

 of the Journal now on the table, an index to the publications of the 

 Academy brought to the end of 1910, and a history of the society 

 by the Recording Secretary. The commemorative quarto is now 

 before the meeting. The index consists of a record of all the con- 

 tributions to the Journal and Proceedings during the period 

 defined, and a reference to every scientific name occurring in the 

 volumes. The alphabetical arrangement of the latter has been 

 completed and about two-thirds of the list is in type, forming the 

 second section of the volume, the first consisting of the catalogue 

 of papers and "verbals." The entire volume will contain about 

 thirteen hundred pages. While the history requires only the 

 final chapter (an account of the centenary celebration) for com- 

 pletion, no arrangement has yet been made for the publication of 

 the volume, as the preparation of the other works referred to has 

 been so engrossing during the year that it would have been impossible 




4912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



to devote necessary time to the additional task. The reading of 

 the proof of the index, especially, has been most exacting, and 

 occasion is taken to make grateful acknowledgment to Mr. William 

 J. Fox and Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry for efficient assistance in this 

 tiresome and laborious work. Mr. Fox also gave indispensable 

 assistance in the preparation of the centenary volume. 



The ordinary meetings have been addressed by Messrs. Leffman, 

 Calvert, Stewardson Brown, Tucker, Bailey, Smith, Harshberger, 

 Dahlgren, Spitzka, Trotter, Bascom, and Skinner. 



Fifty-three papers have been presented for publication, as follows: 

 Edgar T. Wherry, 3; James A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 3; 

 Henrj- A. Pilsbry and Amos P. Brown, 2; Henry W. Fowler, 2; 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 2; Witmer Stone, 2; Thomas H. Montgomery, 

 1; John M. Clarke, 1; J. A. Nelson, 1; Carlotta J. Maury, 1; 

 Harriet W. Wardle, 1; Frederick W. True, 1; Henry Skinner, 1; 

 'Florence Bascom, 1; George A. Boulenger, 1; John W. Harshberger, 

 1 ; Thomas Wayland Vaughan, 1 ; Spencer Trotter, 1 ; George Howard 

 Parker, 1; Sir William Thiselton-Dyer, 1; J. W. von Wijhe, 1; 

 Marshall A. Howe, 1; W. J. Holland, 1; William H. Dall, 1; Benjamin 

 Smith Lyman, 1; Henry G. Bryant, 1; A. N. Caudell and Morgan 

 Hebard, 1; John M. Macfarlane, 1; Henry H. Donaldson, 1; 

 George A. Koenig, 1; Thomas H. Morgan, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 

 1 ; James E. Ives, 1 ; Addison E. Verrill, 1 ; Henry F. Osborn, 1 ; 

 Harold S. Colton, 1; S. Stillman Berry, 1; W T . L. McAtee, 1; T. 

 Fukuda, 1; Edwin G. Conklin, 1; Harold Heath and Ernest B. 

 McGregor, 1; Burnett Smith, 1; Henry A. Pilsbry, 1; H. von Ihering, 

 1; R. W. Shufeldt, 1. 



Four of these have been withdrawn by the authors, twenty- 

 four are contributions to the Journal, and the others constitute 

 the portions of the year's Proceedings so far issued. 



Mr. Moore's paper concludes the fourteenth volume of the 

 Journal. It consists of 161 pages, beautifully illustrated with 

 many halftones in the text and eight superb plates in color, fully 

 sustaining the reputation established by the earlier publications of 

 Mr. Moore, to whom the Academy is as usual indebted for the 

 entire cost of issue. ' 



The commemorative volume of the Journal consists of 756 pages 

 and 59 plates, 6 of which are in colors. 



Additional publications have been issued during the year as 

 follows: Proceedings, 550 pages, 21 plates; Entomological News, 

 484 pages, 20 plates; Transactions of the American Entomo- 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



L ( ,. ; i« a i. S« >ciety (Entomological Section of the Academy), 400 pages, 

 3 plates : Manual of Conchology, 168 pages, 20 plates. The entire 

 issue lor the year, therefore, amounts to 2,358 pages and 123 plates. 



Nineteen members and four correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of twelve members and of six correspondents have 

 been announced, while three members have resigned. 



More than a mere record should be made of the loss sustained 

 by the Academy in the deaths of Edward Potts and Thomas Harrison 

 Montgomery. Air. Potts had been forced by impaired health 

 to discontinue, a few years ago, his active association with the 

 Academy, but his interest in science remained unabated to the last. 

 His work on the natural history of the fresh-water sponges, the 

 results of which the Academy had the honor of publishing, has 

 been recognized as of singular accuracy and thoroughness. 



Dr. Montgomery was the first contributor to the commemorative 

 volume, and the announcement of his death at the first session 

 of the centenary meeting was a pathetic incident of the proceedings. 

 Appropriate action was taken by the Academy, an appreciative 

 minute, prepared by Dr. Calvert, having been placed on the minutes 

 and published. 



The Hayden Medal, on the recommendation of the properly con- 

 stituted committee, was awarded to Professor John C. Branner, 

 of the Leland Stanford Jr. University, in recognition of his dis- 

 tinguished work in geology. 



Daniel J. Fay, Robert Rosenbaum, and Delos E. Culver have 

 served terms as Jessup Fund students. 



The will of the late Mrs. Catherine E. Beecher provides for the 

 endowment of the J. F. Beecher Memorial Laboratory for the 

 study of Biology and Anthropology in the Academy. The amount 

 of the fund, not yet definitely reported, is to be invested for ten 

 years before the income can be available. The proper officers 

 have been instructed to prepare the papers required by the accept- 

 ance of the legacy. 



The popular evening course of free lectures, conducted in con- 

 junction with the Ludwick Institute, was given as usual on Monday 

 and Thursday evenings, January 8 to March 7: — 



Three lectures on Familiar Birds and their Life Histories were 

 delivered by Mr. Witmer Stone; one on The Organization of the 

 Pennsylvania Department of Health by Dr. B. F. Royer; one on 

 The Purity of the Streams of Pennsylvania by Mr. F. Herbert 

 Snow; three on Entomology by Dr. Henry Skinner; three on Problems 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



in the Study of Faunas by Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry; three on Studies 

 in Local Plant Life by Mr. Stewardson Brown, and two on Ancient 

 and Modern Man by Dr. Spencer Trotter. 



The afternoon course for students of the Girls' High Schools of 

 Philadelphia, inaugurated last year, was continued, beginning 

 October 2, and was largely attended. 



Two lectures each were delivered by the following speakers: 

 Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, on Crustacea and Mollusks; Dr. J. Percy 

 Moore, on Reptiles and Mammals; Mr. Witmer Stone, on Birds; 

 Mr. Stewardson Brown on Plants; and one each by Dr. Philip P. 

 Calvert and Dr. Henry Skinner, on Insects. 



It is manifest that the year has been one of unusual interest 

 and activity, and there is no reason to doubt that the fine record 

 commemorated last March will be continued during the next century, 

 although conditions, which have already changed, may undergo 

 further modification. A reasonable prediction as to what these 

 modifications may be when the second centenary of the Academy 

 will be celebrated by our successors in March, 2012, would be a matter 

 of serious interest could it now be made. 



Edward J. Nola^*, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



During the year the deaths of the following-named correspondents 

 occurred: Sir Joseph D. Hooker, Professor John Duns, Professor 

 Eduard Strasburger, and Professor Rudolph Hoernes. The death 

 of the Reverend Stephen Bowers in 1907 and of Professor Adolph 

 Bastian at an unascertained date were also announced. Elections 

 of correspondents were as follows: Professor Viktor Goldschmidt, 

 Dr. Carlotta J. Maury, Professor John Casper Branner, and Dr. 

 Charles Haskins Townsend. 



Invitations to participate in the following-named events were 

 received: The annual meeting of the American Anthropological 

 Association; the XHIth International Congress of Americanists, 

 at which the Academy was represented by Sir Thomas Lauder 

 Brunton; the XlVth International Congress of Anthropology and 

 Prehistoric Archeology; the two hundreth anniversary of the founding 

 of the Academy of Sciences, Belles-Lettres, and Arts of Bordeaux; 

 the XXIst annual convention of the German Dendrological Society; 

 the Second International Congress of Entomology, to which Dr. 




.").")() PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Henry Skinner, Professor Philip P. Calvert, and Dr. W. J. Holland 

 were appointed delegates; the International Forestry Congress; 

 the dedication exercises of the New York State Education Build- 

 in, »■, at which Professor Henry F. Osborn represented the Academy; 

 the XVIth International Congress of Orientalists; the one-hundred 

 and twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the University 

 of Pittsburgh, at which Mr. George H. Clapp served as a delegate, 

 and the inauguration exercises of The William H. Rice Institute, 

 on which occasion Professor Allen J. Smith and Professor Hugo 

 de Vries were the Academy's delegates. Formal addresses or simpler 

 letters of congratulation were forwarded to the executive officers 

 of all of the events named. 



The year 1912 will be remembered as one especially noteworthy 

 in the history of the Academy, because it marked the completion 

 of the first century of the Academy's corporate existence. In 

 connection with the celebration of this event the volume of corre- 

 spondence was much augmented, especially by that conducted on 

 behalf of the Sub-Committee on Invitations, upon which the 

 Corresponding Secretary served. 



During the month of January the invitation prepared at the 

 close of the last fiscal year' was mailed, along with a provisional 

 program and a card requesting replies, to 786 learned societies and 

 institutions in all parts of the world and to the full list of corre- 

 spondents whose addresses have been verified. The reponses were 

 most gratifying, both in number and character. They began to 

 arrive almost immediately, came in increasing volume until the 

 opening of the celebration, and continued to be received during 

 and even after that event. In all four hundred and five institutions 

 responded, of which three hundred and twenty-five sent congratu- 

 latory addresses, letters or telegrams, many of which were very 

 gracefully expressed and handsomely executed. A full list of these 

 is given and many of the letters are quoted in full in the memo- 

 rial volume now before the meeting. A selection of some of the 

 more interesting or beautiful ones is on exhibition in the reading 

 room. One hundred and forty-seven institutions appointed one 

 hundred and ninety-four delegates. Excluding duplications, one 

 hundred and fifty-seven persons were appointed, of which one 

 hundred and twelve are known to have been in attendance. Of 

 the correspondents fifty-two sent letters of congratulation and 

 a number regrets, and thirteen were present at the meetings. 



Finally, after letters had ceased to be received, an acknowledgment 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 551 



expressing appreciation and signed by the President and Secretaries 

 was sent to those institutions, delegates, and correspondents who 

 had shown their interest in the anniversary. 



Many letters asking for information were answered by the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary personally or handed for reply to other members 

 of the scientific staff. 



Statistics of the year's correspondence follow: 

 Communications received : 



Acknowledging receipt of the Academy's publications 14-1 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 63 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 1 



Invitations to learned gatherings, etc. 20 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 12 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific institutions, etc. 41 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 8 



Letters from correspondents 95 



M iscellaneous letters 767 



Total received 1,1.51 



Communications forwarded : 



Acknowledging gifts to the library 1,198 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies in journals 133 



Acknowledging gifts to the museum 139 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 10 



Letters of sympathy and congratulation, addresses, etc. 19 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and of appointment 



of delegates 12 



Miscellaneous letters 386 



Annual reports, circulars, etc 2,1S5 



In vi t ations 984 



Acknowledgments o4.'! 



Total forwarded 5,609 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The additions to the library received, recorded, and placed during 

 the past year have amounted to 8,793. They have been received 

 from the following sources: 



Exchanges 3,662 James Aitken Meigs Fund 117 



I. V. Williamson Fund 2,397 Editors 72 



United States Department of Colorado Agricultural College ... 70 



Agriculture 950 Thomas B. Wilson Fund 48 



General Appropriation 786 Imperial Department of Agricul- 



Authors 225 ture of the British West 



Mrs. Henry C. McCook... 139 Indies 28 



36 




552 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



l Hitcd States Bureau of Educa- 

 tion... 25 



United Stales Department of 



the Interior 20 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Health.. .... 15 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 15 



United States Treasury De- 

 partment .... 14 

 University of Nebraska 14 



Government of Costa Rica 13 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 13 



Imperial Geological Survey of 



Japan 12 



Pan-American Union 11 



East Indian Government 10 



Washington Geological Survey 8 



William J. Fox 8 



Commission Geologique de Fin- 



lande 7 



Massachusetts Agricultural Ex- 

 periment Station 7 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D 7 



Publication Committee of the 



Academy 6 



Pennsylvania Department of 



Agriculture 6 



Ministerio de Agricultura, Ar- 

 gentine Republic 4 



Mississippi State Geological 



Survey 4 



Maryland Geological Survey 4 



Geological Survey of Georgia 4 



Due d'Orleans 4 



Danish Government 4 

 Arizona Horticultural Commis- 

 sion 3 



Estacion Sismologica de Cart uja 3 

 Department of Trade and Cus- 

 toms, Australia -3 



Commission of 'Conservation, 



Canada. 3 



New Mexico College of Agri- 

 culture 3 



French Government 3 



Illinois State Geological Survey 3 



Dr. Henry Skinner 2 



Government of Formosa 2 



Illinois Bureau of Labor Sta- 

 tistics 



Wisconsin Geological and 

 Natural History Survey 



Wyoming Experiment Station.. 



Chief Secretary of New South 

 Wales 



Delaware County Institute of 

 Science 



Geological Survey of New 

 Jersey 



Survey of India 



Dr. Thomas Biddle 



Surgeon-General's Office, U.S.A. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 



Fondation pour lTnternation- 

 alisme 



Presbyterian Historical Society 



Southern Pacific R. It. Co. 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Gar- 

 dens 



United States Brewers' Associa- 

 tion 



Wit mer Stone 



Commissioners on Fisheries and 

 ( lame, Massachusetts 



National Academy of Sciences 



Department of Fisheries, Penn- 

 sylvania 



Edgar T. Wherry 



Steiermarkische Landesmuseum 

 Joanneum 



Arthur H. Lea 



Pennsylvania Chestnut Tree 

 Blight Commission 



Sveriges Geologiska Undersok- 

 ning 



Geological Survey of Alabama.. 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Albert I, Prince de Monaco 



Commission Sismologique Cen- 

 trale a St. Petersbourg 



New Jersey Agricultural Ex- 

 periment Station 



Missouri Bureau of Geology and 

 Mines 



Michigan Geological and Bio- 

 logical Survey 



2 

 2 



2 



2 



2 

 2 



2 



Of these 7,595 were pamphlets and parts of periodicals, 1,046 

 volumes, 142 maps, and 10 sheets. 



They were distributed to the various departments of the library 

 as follows : 



Journals . 6,149 



Agriculture.... 1,110 



Geology .... 422 



Botany... 223 



General Natural History 171 



Entomology 133 



Voyages and Travels 125 



Anatomy and Physiology 89 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 553 



Conchology 65 Medicine 13 



Anthropology 39 Chemistry 12 



Ornithology... 3(1 Mammalogy.. 12 



Geography. 32 Mathematics 12 



Helminthology 28 Herpetology 5 



Physical Sciences 26 Miscellaneous 37 



Mineralogy 21 



Bibliography 20 8,793 



Ichthyology 13 



No effort has been spared to keep the department of journals 

 and periodicals up to its present very desirable standard of com- 

 pleteness. 



The following journals have been added to the subscription list, 

 complete sets having been secured when desirable: 



Behavior Monographs. Baltimore. 



Records of the Past. Washington. 



Baessler-Archiv. Leipzig. 



American Fern Journal. Port Richmond, X. Y. 



Monatsschrift f. Kakteenkunde. Berlin. 



Scottish Naturalist. Edinburgh. 



Revue Zoologique Africaine. Bruxelles. 



Mycologisches Centralblatt. Jena. 



Zeitschrift f. Garungsphysiologie. Berlin. 



Aquarium. Philadelphia. 



Internationale Mittheilungen f. Bodenkunde. Berlin. 



Parasitology. Cambridge. 



Zeitschrift f. Untersuchung der Xahrungs- und Genussmittel. Muenchen. 



Memoirs of the Biological Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. 



Memoirs of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, Philadelphia. 



Zentralblatt f. Zoologie. Leipzig. 



Revue francaise d'Ornithologie. Paris. 



Austral Avian Record. Watford. 



Zentralblatt f. normale Anatomic und Mikrotechnik. Berlin. 



Leaflets of Philippine Botany. Manila. 



The following new journals have been purchased: 



Beitrage zur Rheinischen Naturgeschichte. 1S49-53. Freiburg i. B. 

 Botanical Gazette. 3 vols. London. 

 Billotia. 1 vol. Paris. 



Bollettino della R. Istituto Botanico dell' University Parmense. 1892-93. Parma. 

 Transactions - of the Geological Society of Australia. 1 vol. Melbourne. 

 Boletim de la Sociedad Broteriana. Vols. 1-22 (1880-1906). Coimbra. 

 Acta Hortus Beigianus. Vols. 1-4 (1891-1907). Stockholm. 

 Travaux Scientifiques de l'Universite. Vols. 1-6 (1901-07). Rennes. 

 Mittheilungen des Badischen Zoologischen Vereins. Nos. 1-17 (1899-1905). 



Karlsruhe. 

 Correspondenzblatt f. Sammler von Insekten. 1860-61. Regensburg 

 Museum des Wundervollen, etc., 12 volumes (1810-13). Leipzig. 

 Naturalists' Journal. 8 volumes. London. 

 Annual Report and Transactions of the Plymouth Institution. Vols. 1-8. 



Plymouth. 

 Comptes Rendus des Congres des Societes Savantes de Paris, etc. 1908. 

 Mitteilungen der Aargauischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. 1-8. Aarau. 

 Acta Hortus Botanicus Universitatis Imp. Jurjevensis. Vols. 1-11. 

 Mittheilungen der deutschen Gesellschaft f. Geschichte der Medizin und Natur- 



wissenschaften. Vols. 1-8. 

 Berichte des physiologischen Laboratorium, etc., Universitat. Vols. 1-20. Halle. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Berichte der geologischen Kommission der Konigreiche Kroatien u. Slavonien. 

 Ornithologist. First Series. London. 



Bulletin des SociSte' Dauphinoise d'Ethnologie et d'Anthropologie. Vols. I-IV. 

 ( trenoble. 



The exchange list has been increased by the addition of the fol- 

 lowing: 



Aus der Heimal — fur die Heimat. Leipzig. 



Muzeumi Fiizetek, Asvanytaranak Ertesitoje. Kolosvar. 



Stadtisch.es Museum f. Volkerkunde. Publications. Leipzig. 



Boletin de la Sociedad Phycis. Buenos Aires. 



Mitteilungen der deutschen Dendrologischen Gesellschaft. 



Atti, Societa Lombarda di Scienze mediche e biologiche. Milano. 



Annies, Centro de Estudios Sismologicos. Costa Rica. 



Report of the Imperial Fisheries Institute. Tokyo. 



Notes from the Royal Botanic Garden. Edinburgh. 



Bulletin de la Societe Academique de l'Arrondissement de Boulogne-sur-Mer. 



Annales de la Societe d'Emulation et d' Agriculture de l'Ain. 



Memoires de la Societe de Vulgarisation des Sciences Naturelles des Deux- 

 Sevres. Niort. 



Arxios de I'Institut de Ciencies. Barcelona. 



Boletim do Museu Rocha. Ceara. 



Butlleti, Club Montanyenc Associacio de Ciencies Naturals i Excursions. Bar- 

 celona. 



Science Reports of the Tohoku Imperial University. 



Erdmagnetische Untersuchungen in Finnland. Helsingfors. 



Mitteilungen der Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle a. d. S. 



Compte Rendu des Seances, Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de 

 Geneve. 



Ceylon Marine Biological Reports. 



Proceedings of the University of Virginia Philosophical Society. 



Among the more important accessions may be specially men- 

 tioned : 



Ehrhardt, Beitrage zur Naturkunde. Six vols, in two. Hannover, 1787-92. 

 Ortega, C. G. Novarum, aut rariorum plantarum, etc. Centurio I. Madrid, 



1800. 

 Boudier, E. Icones Mycologica?. Four vols. 1905-10. 

 Koenig, A. Avifauna Spitzbergensis. 1911. 

 Rothschild, W. Avifauna of Laysan. 1893-1900. 



Airs. McCook's gift, a selection from the library of the late Rev. 

 Dr. McCook, provided a desirable increase, especially in the depart- 

 ment of entomology. 



Five hundred and forty-six volumes have been bound. 



Thirty-two volumes on law, literature, and mechanics were 

 transferred to the Free Library of Philadelphia. 



Oil portraits of the President by Lazar Raditz and of the Recording 

 Secretary by Charles Marquedent Burns have been presented. 

 Due acknowledgments were made in each case. 



I am indebted to my assistants, William J. Fox and Furman 

 Sheppard Wilde, for relief from much of the routine work of the 

 library during the year. Both have discharged their official duties 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



efficiently. The services of Mr. Fox especially have enabled me to 

 devote much of my time to preparation for the centenary meeting 

 and to the editing of the volumes commemorative of the celebra- 

 tion. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The fire-proofing of the buildings, through the aid of the Common- 

 wealth of Pennsylvania, has at last been completed. But few 

 appreciate what this means, as our institution is fortunate in 

 possessing the largest natural history library in this country, 

 in addition to the museum, exceedingly rich in the type specimens 

 of so much importance to science. The Entomological Department 

 has been settled in its new quarters, which are said by the workers 

 to fully meet their demands. This department is rapidly advancing 

 along an economic path. The discoveries made in late years of the 

 relationship between disease in animal life and insect life .mean 

 much in the universal battle now being waged against diseases 

 in man, the setiology of which has heretofore been surrounded 

 by mystery. 



The ornithological study collection has been moved back to its 

 permanent quarters, where, the specimens are kept in metal cases 

 out of light and dust, while they are within very convenient reach 

 of our investigators. It will be desirable to still further reduce the 

 exhibit collection of our birds, as the many duplicates can better 

 be preserved in storage cases and yet leave a sufficient number 

 on exhibition to satisfy general educational purposes. The modern 

 methods of mounting birds in their natural surroundings has been 

 greatly extended in the local collection during the last year, and it 

 supplies a good model for the rearrangement and extension of our 

 general collection. 



The Herbarium has been enlarged so that it. will permit a more 

 systematic arrangement of the botanical collections than has been 

 heretofore possible. 



The study collection of mollusks has been thoroughly arranged 

 in the location provided for it two years ago and necessary cases 

 for its expansion have been furnished. Detailed accounts of the 

 work accomplished in these departments will be found in the sub- 

 joined special reports. 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



.Modern cases arc much needed in the northern museum, which 

 has been fire-proofed and much improved in arrangement. With 

 financial help, this wing can be made one of the most attractive in 

 the museum. 



The indirect lighting system employed will enable us, during this 

 coming year, to display our exhibits on certain evenings in the month, 

 so that those engaged throughout the day may make their studies in 

 the various divisions of natural history in which they are interested. 



The William S. Vaux Collection of minerals is being moved into 

 the old library hall, which will relieve the crowding in the archaeo- 

 logical collection and enable the Academy to exhibit the general 

 mineral collection in near proximity. 



Many valuable specimens have been added during the year. 

 Several expeditions have been successfully conducted by our special- 

 ists, a rich harvest resulting from their research work. 



Among the conspicuous and valuable accessions may be mentioned 

 the mounted anthropoids and their respective skeletons, which have 

 been added to the Dr. Thomas Biddle Collection. The new speci- 

 mens were selected by Dr. Biddle to complete as nearly as possible 

 the anthropoid family. The additions comprise a female and young- 

 gorilla, a large-eared chimpanzee, a young chimpanzee, and a baby 

 orang-outang. Several rare monkeys and an Ornithorhynchus were 

 also presented by Dr. Biddle. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his comprehensive inves- 

 tigations of the Indian mounds of the southern United States, 

 resulting in the acquisition of many valuable specimens which make 

 this collection one of the most complete of its kind ever brought to- 

 gether. Of special interest were two forms of pipes, one of the mono- 

 ceramic and the other of the smoke-effigy type. A new type of grave 

 was discovered on Red River, Arkansas. 



The removal of the William S. Vaux Mineral Collection from 

 the archaeological floor will provide Mr. Moore with, additional room 

 for the material recently obtained. 



Among other expeditions may be mentioned one by Messrs. 

 Alfred M. Collins and E. Marshall Scull to British East Africa, 

 where they collected for the Academy a valuable series of large 

 mammals, now being prepared for mounting. The proper arrange- 

 ment of this collection will demand a new wing to our building. 

 Among the most valuable mammals may be mentioned the greater 

 and lesser kudu, eland, giraffe, zebra, buffalo, and a variety of 

 antelopes, hyenas, etc. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



A collection of sections of the trunks of native forest trees, com- 

 prising almost all the species found in the Middle States, was pre- 

 sented by Mr. C. H. Jennings. 



Through the courtesy of the New York Botanical Garden. Mr. 

 Stewardson Brown was enabled to accompany Dr. N. L. Britton, 

 Director of the Garden, on an expedition to Bermuda, where he 

 made collections which added materially to the Academy's scries 

 of the plants of the island. 



Through the liberality of Mr. Morgan Hebard, Mr. Rehn was 

 enabled to spend the summer months in Florida and Texas, where 

 together they made large and valuable collections of Orthoptera, 

 half of which becomes the property of the Academy. 



In addition tu the work described in the special reports appended, 

 Dr. J. Percy Moore has continued his investigation of the annelids 

 obtained in the Pacific Ocean by the United States Bureau of 

 Fisheries. He has identified and named many parasites and other 

 worms submitted to him for identification. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler continues in charge of the fishes and has 

 also identified recent accessions of collections of reptiles and batra- 

 chians. He has made a study of the catostomoid fishes in the gen- 

 eral collection and prepared a report on the fishes of the Chincoteague 

 region, Virginia. 



The archaeological collection is still under the care of Miss H. N. 

 Wardle, who has identified and arranged the new specimens. A com- 

 prehensive catalogue of the department is in course of preparation. 



The Curators are again under obligation to Messrs. S. S. VanPelt 

 and Bayard Long for their continued work on the local collection 

 of plants; to Mr. Morgan Hebard for the mounting of many entomo- 

 logical specimens, and to Dr. Amos P. Brown for the identification 

 of several collections of invertebrate fossils forming part of the Isaac 

 Lea Collection. This collection has for many years been under the 

 care of the Rev. Leander T. Chamberlin, through whose generosity 

 it has increased in extent and value from year to year. It is to be 

 regretted that Dr. Chamberlin's ill health has compelled him to resign 

 his honorary curatorship. The position has been filled by the ap- 

 pointment of Mr. Joseph Willcox. 



Numerous local field trips have been taken by members of the 

 museum staff, yielding valuable additions to the study series of 

 fishes, reptiles, insects, mollusks, and plants. 



One hundred and four storage cases and two hundred insect boxes 

 have been purchased since our last report. 




5o8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



The museum is attracting a larger attendance of visitors than ever 

 before, and many specialists throughout the country have made use 

 of our study collections. 



Specimens have been loaned to the following: Bryant Walker, 

 1>. A. Fuertes, Robert Ridgway, Paul Bartsch, K. A. Wiegand, 

 Thomas Barbour, F. M. Chapman, L. A. Frierson, W. C. Bryant, 

 H. H. Bartlett, E. W. Nelson, N. L. Britton, M. W. Lyon, C. W. 

 Johnson, W. G. Mazyck, J. B. Henderson, J. A. Allen, J. C. Thomp- 

 son, and J. 0. Snyder. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



Executive Curator. 



Report of the Department of Mollusca. 



The growth of the collection during the year has been normal, 

 accessions having been received from ninety persons and institu- 

 tions. Considerable collections of local mollusks have been made 

 by Mr. Bayard Long, who also contributed a large and valuable 

 series from the Magdalen and Prince Edwards Islands. A large 

 quantity of Canadian material from Lake Huron was presented 

 by Mr. A. D. Robertson. A good deal of foreign material has 

 come in from the Hawaiian Islands, Mexico, South Africa, etc. 



Twenty new storage cases have been purchased, each holding six- 

 teen large trays, adding almost 1,000 square feet to our storage 

 -pace. 



Work during the year has been chiefly devoted to the study of 

 Hawaiian snails, but considerable time has been spent in working 

 •up material from Florida, the Rocky Mountains, and Mexico. 

 In collaboration with Dr. Amos P. Brown, Eocene mollusks from 

 North Carolina, and Oligocene material from the Canal zone have 

 been studied. Papers have been published or prepared for publi- 

 cation on all of these topics. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has assorted and determined a large amount 

 of local and other American material. His work has been seriously 

 retarded by illness. Acknowledgments are due Miss Winchester, 

 artist of the department, for helpful services throughout the year. 



H. A. PlLSBRY, 



Special Curator. 

 Report of Curator of William S. Vaux Collections. 



During the past year the principal accessions to the Wm. S. Vaux 



collection include a meteorite from South Africa, tourmaline, apatite, 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 559 



stibiotantalite, neptuneite, and benitoite from California, glauco- 

 phane from Italy, struverite from South Dakota, tourmaline from 

 Madagascar, and topaz from Texas. 



F. J. Keeley, 



Curator. 



Report of the Custodian of the Isaac Lea Collection of 



Eocene Mollusca. 



During the present year some important additions have been 

 made to the Isaac Lea Collection. 



These specimens represent three widely separated localities. 

 From the limestone quarry near Wilmington, North Carolina, 

 immediately overlying the Cretaceous bed, the specimens were 

 collected personally by the writer. The writer also collected the 

 specimens from the Oligocene bed at White Beach on Little Sara- 

 sota Bay, Florida. This bed, representing a small outcrop, is 

 located farther south than any other known Oligocene horizon in 

 the United States. 



The series of fossils from the Panama Canal zone were collected 

 by Dr. Amos P. Brown, and is a notable addition to the Isaac Lea 

 Collection. 



Until the present time none of the above-mentioned localities 

 have been represented in any of the collections of the Academy. 



All of these specimens have been identified by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 and Dr. A. P. Brown. 



A list of the species from White Beach will be found in the Addi- 

 tions to the Museum. The collections from Wilmington and from the 

 Panama Canal zone, containing sixty or more new species, have 

 already been described in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Joseph Willcox. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section. 



Nine regular and several informal meetings of th'e Section have 

 been held with the usual attendance. While the membership has 

 not increased during the year, the interest in microscopical work 

 has not diminished, although the change of room, necessitating the 

 removal and rearrangement of the books and collections, somewhat 

 interfered with the programme of several meetings. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



No detailed mention need be made of the various verbal com- 

 munications; it is sufficient to state that it is the custom of each 

 member to provide at each meeting material illustrative of his own 

 particular studies. 



Mr. T. Chalkley Palmer continues his investigations of the move- 

 ment of diatoms first noticed by Adams, in 1798, in an "infusorium 

 novum," which '■mured either end foremost," and which still mysteri- 

 ously baffles the most patient observation. Mr. F. J. Keeley's 

 demonstrations of microscopical technique have been of special 

 interest. 



The following officers have been elected for the year 1913: 



Director J. Chest on Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director ...T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer. 



( 'onservator Frank J. Keeley. 



Corresponding Secretary Silas L. Schumo. 



Charles S. Boyer, 



Recorder. 



Entomological Section. 



This spring the insect collections were transferred from the tempo- 

 rary quarters in the bird gallery to the six rooms now occupied, and 

 the first meeting in the new location was held on June 10. The 

 work went on while the bird gallery was occupied, but the cabinets 

 were so crowded together that work was done under very un- 

 favorable conditions. The task of moving a million insects was one 

 of very considerable magnitude, but was accomplished without 

 damage to any of the specimens. 



During the Centenary of the Academy a large part of the collection 

 of exotic Lepicloptera was placed on exhibition in the room formerly 

 occupied by the library and attracted much attention and interest. 

 During the year 6,858 specimens have been received, either by gift, 

 exchange or purchase, and a considerable proportion of these have 

 been mounted and incorporated into the collections. 



Twenty-four Brock tins and one hundred large glass-covered cases 

 have been purchased by the Academy. It seems to be the opinion 

 of those persons best qualified to judge, that this style of box is the 

 best so far devised, and it is considered desirable to adopt it for all 

 the orders of insects. After the collections were transferred to the 




1912.] • NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



rooms now occupied, a general survey was made of the collection 

 and additional untrustworthy boxes removed. Many boxes were 

 treated with melted naphthalin. This was done wherever infesta- 

 tion was found. In the Lepidoptera the rearrangement of the 

 micro-moths has been completed, although there are still some speci- 

 mens awaiting' identification. The genus Ornithoptera has been re- 

 arranged in its entirety. Additional cabinet space is needed for the 

 exotic collection. 



The collection of American diurnal Lepidoptera is in excellent 

 condition and material is constantly being added. 



Mr. E. T. Cresson has numbered and listed all the types of his 

 species in the order Hymenoptera preparatory to publishing them. 



A number of species have been added to the collection of Hemip- 

 tera and some material has been determined. 



The exotic Coleoptera have been partially rearranged. The fami- 

 lies- have been labelled and material incorporated. 



The North American collection, well into the family Carabidse, 

 and some of the smaller families which were badly crowded have; 

 also been rearranged. Many species, with accurate data, have been 

 added to the collection and the duplicates put in order under family 

 labels. 



In the Diptera there has been considerable rearrangement ; 

 material has been added and species named. 



Dr. Philip P. Calvert has continued his charge of the collection of 

 Odonata and the work accomplished is credited to him. It is hoped 

 ere long to obtain enough of the new type of boxes to provide for 

 this important collection. The arrangement of the studied exotic 

 series of Orthoptera, as well as a similar revision of the North Amer- 

 ican series, was completed during the year. The previously unar- 

 ranged series of the same collection has also been completed. At the 

 present time, as far as studied, the Orthoptera collections are well 

 arranged and readily accessible, but during the coming year the ex- 

 otic series will need considerable extension, owing to large additions 

 to that series which will have to be installed. Mr. Morgan Hebard 

 has deposited his entire collection of Orthoptera, including the Bruner 

 North American types, in the Academy building, thus making the 

 collections of the order in one room in the Academy the most exten- 

 sive in America. 



During the year the most important additions received have been 

 the series retained by the Academy from the Mecklenburg Central 

 African collection; a series from Venezuela purchased by the Academy: 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF [Dec, 



another from Para, Brazil, also purchased; and an interesting collection 

 from Java, received for identification. There has also been received 

 for determination, and of which the Academy receives a set, several 

 collections totalling over three thousand specimens from East 

 Attica from the Berlin Museum, a series from Mexico from the Field 

 Museum, several from the American Museum of Natural History 

 from the same country, and a very extensive collection from the 

 Transvaal Museum. 



Mr. Hebard has worked during a considerable portion of the year at 

 the Academy, often in conjunction with Mr. Rehn, frequently giving 

 his attention to Academy material as well as his own collection. 

 He has also maintained one, and for a time, two preparators who have 

 worked on material, a large part of which will be given to the Academy 

 after its study. Owing to the liberality of the same gentleman, 

 Mr. Rehn was able to accompany him to the Florida Keys and 

 Texas during the summer, a large series of the order being taken 

 on the expedition, of which the Academy will receive a large propor- 

 tion. 



Two persons were elected Associates of the Section. 



At a meeting held December 9 the following persons were elected 

 officers to serve during the year 1913: 



Director. Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director Henry W. Wenzel. 



Treasurer. Ezra T. Cresson. 



Recorder Henry Skinner. 



Secretari/ James A. G. Rehn. 



Conservator. Henry Skinner. 



Publication Committee. Ezra T. Cresson. 



Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 

 Botanical Section. 



The alterations in the building made during the present year 

 have materially increased the capacity of the herbarium, resulting 

 in a number of changes in the arrangement of the collection. 

 Twenty new metal cases have been added to the equipment. 

 Most of these have been placed in the central room on the 

 main flour to relieve the overcrowding in the two end rooms, the 

 balance being used to accommodate the pteridophytes which have 

 been rearranged in the central gallery room. The large seed case 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 563 



has been transferred from the north to the central gallery room, 

 the north room being used as a work room. The mounting of the 

 flowering plants and ferns of the Albert Commons Herbarium has 

 been completed. 



The Conservator paid 'two visits to Bermuda during the year, 

 from August 22 to September 21 and from November 30 to December 

 14, when important collections were made. 



Ten thousand seven hundred and eighty-two sheets of plants have 

 been added to the herbarium. Of these, 7, 198, distributed through the 

 general herbarium, have been secured by purchase, 352 by the Section. 

 Other sources of supply were from Academy expeditions, 300; Arnold 

 Arboretum, 292; United States National Museum, 385; in exchange 

 and presented by individuals as follows: Dr. James Darrach, 2,000; 

 Miss Caroline A. Boice, 2,000; Charles S. Wlliamson, 480; Francis W. 

 Pennell, 443; Witmer Stone, 270; Henry A. Lang, 250; Edwin B. 

 Bartram, 200; Dr. D. G. Metheny, 127; Harold W. Pretz, 28; Henry 

 F. Michell Co., 27; Harold St. John, 21; E. G. Vanatta, 12; Silas 

 L. Schumo, 6; Mrs. Joseph M. Fox and Miss Olivia Rodham, each 

 2; Dr. William L. Abbott, Dr. Curtin, and Rev. Mr. Baker, each 1. 

 Three thousand five hundred and eighty-four sheets have been 

 added to the local herbarium of the Philadelphia Botanical Club, 

 being contributed principally by its members. Mr. Samuel S. Van 

 Pelt has continued his valued services in the care of this division 

 of the herbarium, and Mr. Bayard Long has also clone much valuable 

 work. The Philadelphia Botanical Club has held its monthly 

 meetings in the Academy during the year as heretofore. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following were elected 

 as the officers for the coming year. 



Director Benjamin H. Smith. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder Charles S. Williamson. 



Treasurer and Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Stewardson Brown, 



Conservator. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section. 



The Section has held four meetings this year, with about the 

 average attendance. 



A communication was made by B. S. Lyman on the Formation 




564 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



of (Oal Beds; Dr. Thomas C. Brown read a paper oa the Origin 

 of the Early Paleozoic Sediments of Central Pennsylvania; and Mr. 

 F. J. Keeley made a communication on Meteorites from Arizona. 

 There were also shorter communications and various discussions. 



There were six field excursions, with an average attendance of 

 over 28. The parties visited: (1) Crystalline rocks near Neshaminy 

 Creek, below the Falls, Bucks County; (2) Crystalline rocks near 

 Inionville and Northbrook, Chester County; (3) The Aldham, 

 ( !hester County, trap and the Cambrian Sandstone of North Valley 

 Hill; (4) Crystalline rocks and their minerals between Avondale 

 and Crum Lynne, Delaware County; (5) The Paleozoic rocks between 

 Strafford, Chester County, and Bridgeport, Montgomery County; 

 (6) Crystalline and Paleozoic rocks between Radnor, Delaware 

 County, and Gulf Mills, Montgomery County. 



Four new associate members were elected. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the 

 year 1913: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



V ice-Director F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary S. L. Schumo. 



Treasurer William B. Davis. 



Conservator.. George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, 



Director. 



Ornithological Section. 



During the early part of the past year, while the alterations 

 to the building were in progress, the ornithological collections were 

 for the most part inaccessible for study. As soon, however, as the 

 rooms had been renovated the cases containing the study series 

 were moved back in place, thoroughly cleansed, and the entire col- 

 leetion examined and rearranged where specimens had been dis- 

 placed in moving. 



The permanent quarters now provided for the department permit 

 of the arrangement of the collections to much better advantage 

 than ever before, while the new skylights and electric-light facilities 

 enable the student to readily consult any of the specimens. Many 

 ot the old unmounted specimens have been relaxed and made to 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



conform in appearance with the skins, which renders them more 

 available for study and more easily cared for. 



Mr. Charles J. Pennock, who was appointed November 5, 1912, 

 as a voluntary special curator of the Oological collections, has 

 already begun the rearrangement of the material and has outlined 

 plans for its expansion. After the removal of the Entomological 

 Department from the bird floor of the Museum, where it had occu- 

 pied temporary quarters during the alterations, the exhibition cases 

 were carefully examined and much mounted material which had been 

 labelled and arranged for exhibit was systematically placed. Al- 

 though only one or two specimens of most species are now exhibited 

 and all types and most of the unique specimens have been withdrawn, 

 it will be necessary still further to reduce the exhibit, as it is much 

 overcrowded. 



The local co lection, established and increased from year to year 

 by the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, has been entirely re- 

 arranged, two large cases having been provided for the water birds 

 and birds of prey. Many specimens which it has been impossible 

 to exhibit previously have been mounted in groups with natural 

 accessories, while the series of birds presented by the late Francis W. 

 Rawle and others have been mounted with their respective nests, 

 thus completing many of the older groups. The appearance and 

 educational value of this collection has been thus greatly enhanced. 



In the time not occupied by his duties as Curator, in general 

 Museum work and in the arrangement of the bird collection, the 

 Conservator has identified the entire collection of 1,548 birds 

 obtained by Mr. S. N. Rhoads in Ecuador during 1911, which was 

 acquired by the Academy early in the year. He has also identified 

 the Venezuelan collection obtained by the Francis E. Bond expedition, 

 and prepared reports on both for publication. 



A careful study of the types of Gould's Australian birds has also 

 been made in connection with the problems encountered by Mr. 

 Gregory M. Mathews in the publication of his Birds of Australia. The 

 results of this work are likewise prepared for publication, as well as 

 the report on the Rapt ores of the Princeton Patagonian Expedition. 



During the year, in addition to the Ecuador collection above 

 referred to, the Academy has received an important gift of birds 

 of West Africa from Mr. G. L. Bates, of Cameroons, the first acces- 

 sion from this region since the famous Du Chaillu collections; 

 also numerous specimens for the local collection from the Delaware 

 Valley Ornithological* Club. 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Thirty metal storage cases have been procured for the accommo- 

 dation of the accessions. 



The Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and the Pennsylvania 

 Audubon Society have continued to hold their meetings at the 

 Academy and have done much to stimulate ornithological study. 



The Conservator would express his indebtedness to Mr. J. A. G. 

 Etehn, who has catalogued all of the accessions, and to Messrs. 

 Daniel J. Fay and Delos E. Culver, who have given valuable aid 

 in the rearrangement of the collection, Mr. Culver having accom- 

 plished particularly satisfactory work in relaxing the old unmounted 

 birds. To Mr. David McCadden, our taxidermist, is due much 

 of the success in the improvement of the local collection. 



The annual meeting of the Section was held on December 3, 1912, 

 and the following officers were reelected: 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director ..George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Corresporiding Secretary William A. Shrj-ock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



Witmer Stone, 



Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the 

 Committee on Accounts was held December 17, with the following 

 result : 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents.. Edwin G. Conklin,Ph.D.,Sc.D. 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



( i katoks Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.,LL.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



( Yu ncillors to serve three years .Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 



Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frank J. Keeley, 

 Thomas G. Ashton, M.D. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstmann. 



COUNCIL FOR 1913. 



Ex-Officio— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Thomas Biddle, M.D., 

 Frank J. Keeley, Thomas G. Ashton, M.D. 



To serve two years. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles 

 Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 



To serve one year. — Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., Edwin S. Dixon, 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Robert G. LeConte, M.D. 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections Frank J. Keeley. 



Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Jos. Willcox. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Archaeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David N. McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague. 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 

 37 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec.,. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Finance.— John Cadwalader, A.M., E. S. Dixon, Effingham B. 



Morris, William D. Winsor, and the Treasurer. 

 Publications.— Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Library.— Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 



Tucker, M.D., Frank J. Keeley, Thomas Biddle, M.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles 



Morris, Witmer Stone, A.M., Henry Tucker, M.D., George 



Spencer Morris. 

 Committee of Council on By-Laws. — Thomas Fenton, M.D., 



John Cadwalader, A.M., Charles B. Penrose, M.D., Witmer 



Stone, A.M. 



ELECTIONS IN 1912. 

 Members. 



January 16.— G. B. Heckel, Henry S. Pratt, Ph.D., Edwin B. 

 Bartram. 



February 20. — Frederick Ehrenfeld, Francis B. Bracken. 



April 16. — Harold Peirce, John Ashhurst, Samuel C. Schmucker, 

 Ph.D., William H. Newbold, Cecilia Baldwin McElroy, Seth 

 Bunker Capp, Walter N. James, M.D., A. V. Morton, Harriet 

 Newell Wardle, Philip F. Kelly, Hon. John M. Reynolds. 



October 15. — Ernest Comly Dercum, Warren Mathews Foote. 



November 19. — Horace E. Smith. 



Correspondents. 



January 16. — Viktor Goldsmidt, of Heidelberg, Charles Haskins 

 Townsend, Sc.D., of New York, Carlotta J. Maury, Ph.D., 

 of New York, John C. Branner, of Stanford University, Cal. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM, 

 1912. 



Ethnological and Archaeological. 



Thomas Biddle, M.D. Specimen of mummified trophy head or "tsantsa," 

 prepared by the Jibaros tribe of Ecuador. 



Mrs. E. D. Cope. Mexican grinding stone. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D. Metlatl and metlapille, Mexico. 



R. W. Shufeldt, M.D. Human skeletal remains, Campeche, Yucatan. 



Miss E. E. Keating. Rattle and two figurines of terra cotta, Mexico (col- 

 lected 1825-1829). 



Ludwig Pfeiffer, M.D. Ten casts of paleoliths from Taubach-Ehringsdorf, 

 near Weimar, Germany. 



Clarence B. Moore. Numerous additions to the Clarence B. Moore 

 Collection from Indian Mounds of the Southern States. 



Mammals. 



Wm. L. Abbott, M.D., through Miss Gertrude Abbott. Collection of heads 

 of African antelopes, Rhinoceros horns and tail. 



Charles W. Beck. Several whale vertebrae, Beach Haven, N. J. 



Thos. Biddle, M.D. Collection of mounted mammals: adult female and 

 young Gorilla (Gorilla gorilla) , young orang-utan (Pongo pygmceus), Koola-kamba 

 (Simia koolakamba) with mounted skeleton, Rutledge's Monkey (Pygathrix 

 rutledgii), Galla Colobus (Colobus gallarum) with skull, European Lemming 

 (Lemmus lemmus), Duckbill (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) and os penis of Walrus 

 (Odobenus sp.). 



S. Rowland Caldwell. Pair of Walrus tusks. 



Mrs. E. D. Cope. Plaster cast of Gorilla's head. 



T. D. Keim and H. W. Fowler. Red Bat (Lasiurus borealis), Delaware. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Two Brown Bats (Eptesicus fuscus), Philadelphia. 



D. G. Metheny, M.D. One shrew (Blarina sp.), Nova Scotia. 



Robert Morris. Two Say's Bats (Myotis subulatus), Montgomery County, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Purchased. Otter (Lulra canadensis), Salem County, N. J. Prepared as skin 

 and skull. Skin and skeleton of cow Bison (Bison bison). Collection of 

 mammalian skins and skulls, British East Africa ; several specimens for the local 

 collection. 



Henry Tucker, M.D. Brown Bat (Eptesicus fuscus), Philadelphia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Prepared for mounting: Clouded 

 Leopard (Felis nebulosa); Raccoon-like .Dog (Canis procyonoides) ; Ruffed 

 Lemur (Lemur varius). Prepared as skin and skull: Wolverene (Gulo luscus); 

 Cape Hyrax (Procavia capensis); Variegated Capuchin (Cebus variegatus) ; 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Mozambique Monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus) ] Schmidt's Monkey (Cercopi- 

 thecus schmidti). Prepared as skin: Red Kangaroo (Macropus rufus); Gray 

 Lagothrix (Lagothrix lagothrica). Prepared as skin and skeleton: Wombat 

 (Phascolomys milchelli). Prepared as skeleton: Collared Peccary (Tayassu 

 tajacu); Wombat (Phascolomys rnitchelli). Prepared as alcoholic: Very young 

 Northern Warthog (Phacochcerus africanus). 



Birds. 



Wm. L. Abbott, M.D., through Miss Gertrude Abbott. Three cases of 

 mounted North American birds. 



Gen. George Anderson. Two Nutmeg Pigeons (Myristricivora), Philip- 

 pines. 



George L. Bates. Twelve skins of birds, Bitje, Cameroons, W. Africa. 



Conrad Behrens, M.D. Barn Owl (Aluco pratincola) , Cape May Point, 

 N. J. 



Miss Lizzie Brader. Abnormal Chipping Sparrow (Spizella socialis). 



Harry Chambers. One Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), Moorestown, N. J. 



Alfred M. Collins and E. Marshall Scull. Twenty bird skins, British 

 East Africa. 



W. B. Crispin. Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo borealis), Salem, N. J. 



William B. Davis. Little Auk (Alle alle), Ocean City, N. J. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Several local bird nests and 

 eggs. 



W. N. Ely. Saw-whet Owl (Cryptoglaux acadicus). 



W. L. Ewing, Jr. Bald Eagle (Haliceetus leucocephalus) and Barred Owl 

 (Strix varia), Cape May, N. J. 



Edward N. Fox. Two specimens of Wilson's Tern (Sterna hirundo), Sea 

 Isle City, N. J. 



Wm. E. Hughes, M.D. Two White-winged Scoters (Oidemia deglandi) , 

 Maryland. 



Ida A. Keller, Ph.D. One Starling (Sturnus vulgaris), Salem, N. J. 



Philip Laurent. Franklin's Gull (Lams franklini), Philadelphia, Pa. 



Dr. Charles B. Penrose. Little Auk (Alle alle), Virginia Beach, Va. 



F. H. Peppelman. Four-legged Chicken. 



Purchased. Two Red-breasted Mergansers (Mergus serrator), Sea Isle City, 

 N. J. Series of neotropical birds. 



Miss Belle Vansant. Three Starlings (Sturnus vulgaris), Newtown, Pa. 



Zoological Society or Philadelphia. Prepared as skin: Crowned Pigeon 

 (Goura victoria); Eagle (Aquila sp.). Prepared as skeleton: Ground Hornbill 

 (Bucorax abyssinicus) ; Concave-casqued Hornbill (Dichoceros bicornis); Black- 

 necked Swan (Sthenelides melanocoryphus). Prepared as skull: Black-necked 

 Swan {Sthenelides melanocoryphus). 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



C. C. Abbott, M.D. House Snake, Trenton, N. J. 

 O. E. Baynard. Five jars of reptiles, Florida. 



Charles W. Beck. Several bones of sea turtle (Caretta caretta), 'Beach 

 Haven, N. J. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



Thomas Biddle, M.D. Specimen of Cobra. 



C. H. Conner. Green Snake {Opheodrys), Burlington Co., N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Rana and Hemidactylum, Bucks County, Pa. Fence 

 Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus), Denton, Md. 



Henry Fox, Bayard Long, and Stewardson Brown. Copperhead (Agkis- 

 trodon contortrix), Zieglerville, Pa. 



Philip Laurent. Green Snake {Opheodrys cestivus), Iona, N. J. 



Bayard Long. Three frogs, Prince Edward Island and Magdalen Islands, 

 Canada. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Jar of Spelerpes ruber, Philadelphia. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Mud Turtle (Aromochelys odoratus) and Frogs {Rana syl- 

 vatica and clamata), New Jersey. 



Wm. Quigley. Salamander, California. 



Evan Rhoads. Water-snake (Natrix sipedon) with seventy-four young, 

 Newton Creek, N. J. 



Samuel C. Scoville, Jr. Timber Rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus), Con- 

 necticut. 



F. Tappan. Several frogs (Pseudacris triseriatus) , Minnesota. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Alligator Snapping-turtle (Macro- 

 clemmys temminckii). Prepared as skeleton: Mastigure. 



Fishes. 



Academy Expedition [H. W. FowlerI. One keg and seven jars of fishes, 

 Chincoteague, Va. 



William N. Allen. Saw of Saw-fish. 



O. E. Baynard. One jar of fishes, Florida. 



R. E. Brown. Collection of fishes, Cape May, N. J. 



Horace Hadley Burton. Roe and milt of hermaphroditic shad. 



Carnegie Museum (in exchange). Collection of eleven species of South 

 American fishes. 



Wm. B. Davis and H. W. Fowler. Four jars of fishes, Great Bay, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Lamprey (Petromyzon marinus), Tullytown, Pa. Five lots 

 of fishes, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland. 



W. J. Fox. Hair-tail (Trichiurus lepturus), Green Gar (Tylosurus raphidoma), 

 Crab-eater {Rachycentron canadus) and Sea Catfish (Felichthys marinus), Sea 

 Isle City, N. J. 



Julius Hurter. Collection of fishes, Missouri. 



Wm. T. Innes, Jr. Three lots of fishes, Illinois. Three fishes, California. 



Master Charles J. Jones. Burr fish (Chilomycteris schoepfi), Atlantic 

 City, N. J. 



F. J. Keeley. Pipe fish (Syngnathus fuscus), Egg Harbor Bay, N. J. Bat 

 fish (Ogcocephalus radiatus), Indian River, Fla. 



Bayard Long. Two lots of fishes, Long Beach, N. J. Collection of small 

 fishes, Prince Edward Island and Magdalen Islands, Canada. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Two jars of fishes, Pennsylvania and Maryland^ Brook 

 Trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), Monroe County, Pa. 



Wm. E. Meehan. Trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), Pike (Esox americanus) 

 and Calico Bass (Pomoxis sparoides), Fairmount Aquarium. 



D. G. Metheny, M.D. Two kegs of fishes, Nova Scotia. 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



F. M. Meters and H. W. Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Bethlehem, Pa. 

 David N. McCadden. Lizard fish (Sy nodus fattens), Ocean City, N. J. 

 Pennsylvania State Fish Commission, through the Hon. N. R. Buller, 

 Commissioner. Two collections of. fishes, Erie, Pa. 



Dr. R. J. Phillips. Small collection of fishes, Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



Purchased. Collection of British Guiana fishes. 



Joseph Redl. Flying fish (Exocoetus sp.), Madeira. 



Joseph V. E. Titus. Collection of Trout (Salvelinus marstoni), Canada. 



R. W. Wehrle. Three jars of fishes, Indiana County, Pa. 



Recent Mollusca. 



J. Aebly. Viviparus malleatus Rve. and Limax maximus L. 



Clarence L. Aman. .Eight species from Cuba. 



C. A. Baker. Ten species from Florida. 



C. F. Baker. Ten species from Nicaragua; four from Colombia; one from 

 Alabama. 



F. C. Baker. Planorbis campanulatus Say and Planorbis campanulalus 

 smithii Bkr. (cotypes). 



Dr. Fred Baker. Tomigerus Icevis Iher. from Brazil. 



H. B. Baker. Thirty-four species from Michigan. 



Edwin B. Bartram. Eight species from Newfoundland. 



M. G. Becker. Six species from California, Iowa, Kansas and Illinois. 



Horace J. Binney, Jr. Cyprcea erosa carmen Smith (cotype). 



Henry J. Boekelman. Poecilozonij.es circumfirmatus Redf. from Bermuda. 



Caroline A. Boice. Six trays of shells. 



Amos P. Brown. Nine species from Maine and four from Colombia. 



R. E. Brown. Fulgur egg-case from New Jersey. 



George H. Clapp. Two species from Cuba, four from Bahamas, two from 

 Florida. 



Wm. F. Clapp. Eight species from Massachussets, two from Vermont, 

 one from Maine. 



•W. F. Clapp and R. K. Smith. Carychium minimum Mull, from Massa- 

 chusetts. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Ten species from Guatemala. 



M. Connolly. Eighteen species from South Africa (including topo types). 



Delos E. Culver. Twenty species from Pennsylvania. 



William H. Dall, Ph.D. Planorbis antrosiis percarinatus Wkr. from New 

 Hampshire. 



C. S. Dolley, M.D. Sixteen species from Mexico. 



Henry Edson. Helminthoglypta d. cuestana Eds. from California (types). 



S. M. Edwards. Four species from Ohio, one from Oregon and one from 

 Colorado. 



Rev. W. H. Fluck. Pachychilus largillierti Phil, from Nicaragua. 



Henry \V. Fowler. Forty-two species from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 

 Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. 

 William J. Fox. Polygyra albolabris maritima Pils. from New Jersey. 

 L. S. Frierson. Unio Jacksoniensis Fr. (types) from Mississippi, Quadrula 

 trapezoides pentaganoides Fr. and Quadrula heros Say from Louisiana. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 573 



Prof. H. Garman. Physa sayi Tapp. and Goniobasis brevispira Anth. from 

 Kentucky. 



G. M. Greene. Eight species from New Jersey and Pennsylvania. 



J. B. Hatcher. Twelve species from Argentine Republic and one from 

 Patagonia. 



Miss Clara de Haven. Turbo a. margaritaceus L. 



Arthur Haycock. Seven species from Bermuda. 



H. Heath. Tivela stultorum Mawe from California. 



Morgan Hebard. Five species from Bermuda, twenty from Florida (in- 

 cluding types) and four from Texas (including types). 



J. B. Henderson. Two species from Florida. 



Junius Henderson. Nineteen species from Colorado and Wyoming. 



A. A. Hinkley. Anculosa n. sp. from Alabama. 



E. J. H. Howell. Harpa crassa Morch, Turbo marmorata L. 



H. v. Ihring. Cotypes of three species of Oxychona from Brazil. 



H. I. Innes, Jr. Physa gyrina Say, Sphoerium solidulume Prime and 

 Sphcerium striatinum Lam. from Illinois. 



S. Jacob. Vivipara contectoides from Fairmount Park. 



H. A. Kaeber. Pyramidula a. fergusoni Bid. and Zonitoides arborea Say 

 from Pennsylvania. 



F. J. Keeley. Four species from Florida. 



Bayard Long. One hundred and ninety-two trays from Pennsylvania, 

 twenty-eight from Delaware, fifty-five from New Jersey, two hundred and 

 fifty-six from Canada and one from Porto Rico. 



Herbert N. Lowe. Epiphragmophora veitehii D. from Lower California. 



J. G. Malone. Eight species from Lower California. 



Bruce Martin. Ariolirnax columbianus Gld. from Calif. 



H. L. Mather. Viviparus contectoides Binn. from Philadelphia. 



W. G. Mazyck. Four species from South Carolina. 



D. G. Metheny, M.D. Purpura lapillus L., Acmcea testudinalis Mill, and 

 Littorina littorea L. from Nova Scotia. 



G. W. H. Meyer. Five species of shells. 



Clarence B. Moore. Five species from Florida, three from Arkansas, 

 twenty from Louisiana. 



L. H. McNeill. Praticolella mobiliana Lea from Alabama. 



W. H. Over. Three species from Michigan, two from South Dakota. 



George W. Pepper. Cerion pepperi Bartch from Andros Islands, Bahamas; 

 Leptinaria sallesana Pfr. from Dominican Republic; Eulota similaris hong- 

 kongenis from Batavia, Java. 



Alice Pilsbry. Ten species from Michigan. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Three species from Florida, seven from Cuba and thirty- 

 four trays from New Jersey. 



Harold W. Pretz. Gastrodonta suppressa Say from Pennsylvania. 



Charles T. Ramsden. Six species from Spain. 



Mrs. F. W. Rawle. Acmwa from Maine; Crepidula fornicata L. and Crepi- 

 dula plana Say from Massachusetts. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Three species from Pennsylvania, three from Marthas 

 Vineyard. 



A. D. Robertson. Sixty-two species from Canada. 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Robert Rosenbaum. Littorina Littoria L. from Massachusetts. 



F. A. SAMSON. Sixteen species from Missouri. 



S. L. Schumo. Circulus sp. from British Honduras. 



Prof. Burnett Smith. Eighty species from New York, fourteen from 

 California. 



Herbert H. Smith. Five species from Alabama, one from Cuba. 



State Board of Health. Agriolimax campestris Binn. from Missouri. 



Y. Sterki, M.D. Seven species from Indiana, Ohio, Tennessee and North 

 Carolina. 



Witmer Stone. Sixteen species from Maryland, one from Pennsylvania, 

 five from Wisconsin, eight from Minnesota. 



C. de la Torre. Fourteen species from Cuba (including some types). 



U. S. Fish Commission. Four species. 



University of Michigan. Amphidromus chloris Rve. from Basilan and 

 Tamboanga, P. I. 



University of Wisconsin. Eighteen species from Molokai (including 

 types). 



Edward G. Vanatta. Twelve species from Pennsylvania, twenty-eight 

 from New York, three from Maryland. 



T. Van Hyning. Physa Integra Hald., Succinea avara Say and Succinea 

 concordialis Gld. from Iowa. 



Bryant Walker. Thirteen species from Michigan, Texas (including para- 

 types), Alabama, Illinois (cotypes) and Mexico. 



Henry A. Wenzel. Eighteen species from Texas. 



Joseph Willcox. Vermetus from Florida. 



C. S. Williamson. Five species from Ontario, three from Michigan. 



Helen Winchester. Anomia simplex from Ocean View. 



Henry W. Winkley. One spe'cies from Maine (types), seven from Massa- 

 chusetts, one from Connecticut. 



H. T. Wolf. Twelve species from Florida. 



W. H. Zehring. Unio roanokensis northhamptonensis Lea from Pennsylvania, 

 and pearl from the same. 



By Purchase. Collection of East Indian and Indo-Chinese marine and 

 land shells. 



Insects. 



Berlin Museum. Four hundred and twenty-five Orthoptera, Central Africa. 



J. C. Bradley. Three Hymenoptera, New York; one Heteropteron, Georgia, 

 one Cephus pygomcea. 



A. P. Brown. Three ants, Pennsylvania. 



H. S. Bryant. Twenty-five insects, Labrador. 



P. P. Calvert. Twenty-six Diptera, Africa; two Cicada, New Jersey. 



E. Chakour. Sixty-one Orthoptera, Egypt. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Thirty-two Hymenoptera, Guatemala and Australia; 

 eighty-seven Hymenoptera, United States. 



N. Collins and A. S. Scull. Forty-one Lepidoptera, Central Africa. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr. One hundred and eight insects, United States. 



V. A. E. Daecke. Stenophis work, Harrisburg, Pa.; six Ogrilus lecoutei, 

 Lemoyne, Pa. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Henry Fox. Xiphidium sparteince (type), A^. nigropleuriodcs (type), three 

 X. sparteince. 



W. J. Gerhard. Four Lepidoptera, Chicago. 



S. M. Greene. Two hundred and forty-one Coleoptera, United States. 



German Entomological Museum. Thirteen Orthoptera. 



F. Haimbach. Tetragoneura spinosa, New Jersey; one hundred and fifty- 

 eight Microlepidoptera, Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



M. Hebard. Two hundred and six Lepidoptera (in plaster casts), Mundus; 

 one hundred and twenty-five Lepidoptera, Thomasville, Georgia; ten Oncideres 

 putator, Arizona; five moths, Georgia; thirteen Papilios, Georgia and Florida; 

 seventy-six Orthoptera, United States; five insects, Florida; four hundred and 

 thirty-seven Orthoptera, Southern Florida; twenty Orthoptera, North America; 

 thirty-eight Hymenoptera, thirty-three Diptera, two hundred and twenty-five 

 Coleoptera, Hebard Academy Expedition; four hundred and fifty Coleoptera, 

 North Borneo; two hundred and sixty insects, United States; sixty-three Lepi- 

 doptera, United States; seventeen Odonoptera, twenty-one Hemiptera. 



Edward Jacobson. Thirty-four Orthoptera, Java. 



University of Kansas. Three Orthoptera. 



H. Karny. One hundred and seventy-nine Orthoptera, Southwestern Africa; 

 Soudan, Southeastern Europe, Exchange. 



H. Newcomb. Lyccera neurora, Mount Wilson, California. 



R. Onion. One Pepsis, Texas. 

 . R. F. Pearsall. Thirty-six Geometridse, United States. 



Purchased. One hundred and twenty-three Orthoptera, Cosmos Islands; 

 five hundred and ninety Orthoptera, Congo, Peru, Cameroons; two hundred 

 and eighty-six Orthoptera, four hundred and seventy Lepidoptera, Costa Rica. 



C. F. Ramsden. Mesosemia ramsdeni (type and allotype), Cuba. 



H. Skinner. Fifty-three insects, Ardmore, Pennsylvania. 



U. S. National Museum. Twenty-two Orthoptera. 



W. Stone. One thousand three hundred and fifty-four insects, Minnesota 

 and Wisconsin. 



H. W. Wenzel. Two hundred and ninety Coleoptera, Texas. 



C. S. Williamson Ten Lepidoptera, Fort William, Canada. 



Other Invertebrates. 



R. E. Brown. Collection of Crustacea, Cape May, N. J. 



H. W. Fowler. Five lots of Crustacea and myriopoda, Pennsylvania, New 

 Jersey and Maryland. 



Bayard Long; Several lots of Crustacea, Long Beach, N. J. 



H. L. Mather, Jr. Small lot of local Crustacea. 



Charles B. Penrose, M.D. Moira atropos, Virginia Beach, Va. 



R. J. Phillips, M.D. Box crab {Calappa), Corson's Inlet, N. J. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Collection of Crustacea, Cuba. 



Mrs. F. W. Rawle. Collection of New England Invertebrates. 



Mrs. Albert Sullivan. Collection of corals. 



E. G. Vanatta. Vial of isopods and lot of barnacles, Maryland and Penn- 

 sylvania. 



Miss Helen Winchester. Barnacle (Balanus), Ocean View, Va. 




576 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Mrs. E. D. Cope. Fossil bones. 



Purchased. Eight trays of Syrian Cretaceous fishes. 

 Mrs. L. Poole. Collection of fossil sharks' teeth, Trappe, Md. 

 Rev. Leander T. Chamberlain. Carcharodon polygurus Mort.; Galeocerdo 

 aduncus Ag. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



T. H. Aldrich. Four species of Pliocene shells, Glenrose, Texas. 



Clarence L. Aman. Eight species of shells from clay deposit, Cuba. 



R. 0. Crawford. Fossil coral (Synaptophyllum), Montana. 



Bayard Long. Fossil impressions, Monroe County, Pa. 



Herbert B. and Emily Shonk. Specimen of coal fossil, Plymouth, Pa. 



Joseph Willcox. Seventeen trays of Eocene fossils, Wilmington, N. C. 



The following species of White Beach Oligocene fossils were added to the 

 Isaac Lea Collection through the liberality of the Rev. Leander T. Chamber- 

 lain. 



Comis planiceps Heilpr.; Conns, sp. undet.; Turbinella valida Sowb.; Vasum 

 haitense engonatum Dall; Oliva cylindrica Sowb.; Marginella, sp. undet.; Or- 

 thavlax pugnax Heilpr.; Malea ringens Val.; Cyprcea willcoxii Dall; Cyprcea, 

 sp. undet.; Polinices duplicatus Say; Crucibulum auricula chipolanum Dall; 

 Turritella tampce Dall; Turritella tornata Guppy; Serpulorbis ballista Dall; 

 Calliostoma, sp. undet.; Area marylandica Conr. ; Area occidentalis Phil.; Area, 

 three spp. undet.; Glycimeris subovata plagia Dall; Pecten magnificus Sowb.; 

 Pecten, sp. undet.; Oslrea, two undet. sp.; Mytilus aquila Dall (?); Spondylus, 

 sp. undet.; Plicatula densata Conr.; Chama, sp. undet.; Chama macerophylla 

 Gmel.; Cardium, sp. undet.; Lucina pennsylvanica L.; Lithophaga, sp. undet.; 

 Crassatellites, three undet. sp.; Venericardia hadra Dall; Cardita recta Conr.; 

 ■Chione latilirata Conr.; Chione, sp. undet.; Venus, sp. undet. 



Plants, Etc. 



W. L. Abbott, M.D. Fruit of Lodoicea callipyge. 



Arnold Arboretum. Two hundred and ninety-two specimens (exchange). 



Charles C. Bachman. Sixty-four specimens. 



Rev. Mr. Baker. Phoradendron sp. 



Edwin B. Bartram. Three hundred and eighty-seven specimens. 



George W. Bassett. Four hundred and forty-two specimens. 



Bermuda Expedition. Three hundred specimens. 



Miss Caroline A. Boice. Two thousand specimens. 



Botanical Section. Three hundred and fifty-two specimens (purchased). 



( >. H. Brown. Two hundred and forty-eight specimens. 



Stewardson Brown. Seven specimens. 



D. E. Culver. One specimen. 



Roland G. Curtin, M.D. Sonchus arvensis. 



James Darrach, M.D. Two thousand specimens. 



John W. Eckfeldt, M.D. Aster amethystinus, Geranium sibericum. 



V> illiam Findlay. Sixty-one specimens. 



Henry Fox, Ph.D. Four specimens. 



Mks. Joseph M. Fox. Dryopteris spinulosa, D. cristala. 




1912.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



J. H. Grove. Twenty-four specimens. 



D. Hamm. Eighty-six specimens. 



C. H. Jennings. Collection of sections of native trees of the Alleghanies, 

 Garrett County, Md. 



Miss Keeney. Two specimens Geranium sibericum. 



Henry A. Lang. Two hundred and fifty specimens, Jamaica and Florida. 



Bayard Long. One thousand five hundred and fifty-nine specimens. 



E. S. Mattern. Two specimens. 

 \Y. Mattern. Lacinaria squarrosa. 



D. G. Metheny, M.D. One hundred and twenty-seven specimens, Nova 

 Scotia. 



Henry F. Michell Co. Twenty-seven specimens of weeds. 



New York Botanical Garden. One hundred Coraloid and other marine 

 Alga?. 



Francis W. Pennell. Five hundred and fifty-four specimens. 



Mrs. J. E. Peters. Two specimens. 



Harold W. Pretz. Four hundred and thirteen specimens. 



J. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard. Forty specimens. 



Miss Olivia Rodham. Flaveria linearis, Sauroglossum chranichoides. 



Wm. H. Roper. Eryngium aquatieum. 



Mr. Ruth. Rumex crispus. 



Harold St. John. Twenty-one specimens. 



Silas L. Schumo. Six ferns. 



Wither Stone. Two hundred and seventy-three specimens. 



United States National Museum. Three hundred and eighty-five speci- 

 mens. 



Harry W. Stout. Wood from Bear Valley Colliery, Dauphin County, Pa. 



E. G. Vanatta. Twelve specimens. 



Charles S. Williamson. Four hundred and eighty-one specimens, New- 

 foundland and Labrador, 



Minerals. 



John Heebner. Collection of copper and other minerals, Calumet Mine, 

 Michigan, Montana, etc. 



C. Henry Roney. Collection of minerals. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Specimens of varicolored clay, Gay Head, Mass. 



Mr. Albert Sullivan. Collection of minerals. 



Wm. S. Vaux Collection (purchased). Eleven specimens. 




578 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1912. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abies 373 



Abama americana 149 



Abraliopsis 425, 431 



hoylei 431 



morisii 426 



pfefferi 431 



scintillans 383, 425, 431 



Abramis ohrysoleucas 37, 41, 41, 50, 52 



Abraxas 289, 291 



grossulariata 287, 290, 298, 308, 



316, 319 



Acanthosepion hasselti 418 



Acella 176 



Acentetus carinatus 91 



Aceros 478 



langi 458, 478 



Achirus fasciatus 38, 56 



Achurum brevipenne 250 



minimipenne 160 



Acipenser brevirostrum 42 



rubicundus 42 



sturio 51,57 



Acmsea 540 



testudinalis 540 



Acotylea 457, 458 



Acrsea 358 



violse 327, 329 



Acraeinae 288 



Acridiidae 244, 336, 344 



Acridium appendiculatum 259 



Acridotheres tristis ...318, 326, 328, 331 



Acrolophitus uniformis 110 



variegatus 110 



Adalia sp 299 



bipunctata .288, 334, 338, 343, 350 



Adiantum pedatum 535 



^Eoloplus arizonensis 76 



bruneri 76, 162 



californicus 76 



elegans 76 



minor 123 



oculatus 76 



regalis 76 



tenuipennis.. 76 



uniformis 76 



Agalena 289 



labyrinthica 289 



Agapostemon sp 337 



Ageneotettix australis 113 



curtipennis 113 



oc'cidentalis 123 



sierranus 106 



Aglao thorax sierranus 108 



Agonoderus pallipes 336, 343, 347 



Agrcecotettix modestus 121 



Agrostis antecedens 522, 523 



hyemalis 523 



Agrotis sp 334 



Ahynnodontophis 25 



Ailanthus glandulosus 340 



Alaus oculatus 337 



Alebes rufus 8 



Alebidse 8 



Alectron (Hima) catallus 507 



Alloposidse 397 



Alloposus 397 



pacificus. 382, 397 



Allorhina nitida 337, 343 



Alosa sapidissima 41, 51, 57 



Alsine media 342 



Alutera schoepfi 37, 58, 59 



Amara sp 342 



Amaranthus 344 



sp 341, 343 



Amaurobius ferox 289 



Ambloplites rupestris 48 



Amblycereus 456 



luteus 455, 456 



Amblycorypha floridana 107 



iselyi 1 63 



scudderre 125 



Amblytropidia costaricensis Ill 



elongata Ill 



occiden talis 251 



Ambrosia artemesiaefolia 341 



Ameiurus catus 53 



lacustris 47 



natalis prosthistius 41 



nebulosus 47, 54 



Amelanchier lsevis 537 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



579 



Amelanchier oblongi folia 537 



Amiatus calvus 42 



Ammod y tes americanus 34 



Amphioctopus membranaceus 397 



Amphitornus nanus 105 



Amphitretidae 397 



Amphitretus 397 



pelagicus 382, 397 



Amusium 502, 513 



Anabrus cerciata 166 



longipes , 166 



simplex maculatus 166 



s. nigra 166 



Anaplecta abortiva 158 



Anasatristis 292, 293, 350, 362 



Anaxipha pulicaria 274 



Anchovia eurystole 34 



mitchilli 38,41, 52 



Anciliplana 479 



gram 458,480 



Anconia cseruleipennis 116 



grisea 116 



Anguilla anguilla 8 



australis 9 



bicolor.... 9 



chrisypa, 8, 37, 41, 42, 50, 52, 56, 57 



japonica 8 



mauritiana 8 



Anguillidae 8 



Anisodactylus discoideus 336, 350 



rusticus 336 



terminatus 342 



Anisolabis annulipes 236, 237 



maritima. 236, 237 



Anisomorpha buprestoides 243 



Anniceris apicalis 120 



meridionalis 120 



Anolis principalis 294, 300 



Anomoglossus pusillus 347 



Anona glabra 135 



Anosia plexippus 286, 294 



Antennaria neodioica 535 



plantaginifolia. 535 



Antennarius scaber 40 



teleplanus 38 



tigris 40 



Anthracoceros sp 326 



Anthrocera filipendula 308, 313 



Apeltes quadracus 37, 41, 48, 55 



\phidae 334, 336 



Aphredoderus sayanus 41, 58 



Aphthalmichthys gangeticus 32 



macrocephalus. 32 



Apidonectes 359 



Apis mellifera, 298, 313, 338, 346, 348- 



350 



Aplodinotus grunniens 50 



Aplopus mayeri 159, 243 



Apote notabilis robusta 164 



Apotettix minutus 104, 244 



rugosus 244 



Aptenopedes aptera 267 



Aptenopedes clara 101, 266, 267 



sphenarioides 266, 267 



Aquifoliaceae 338 



Arabis lyrata 530 



Arachnocephalus, 184, 185, 188, 222, 233 



restitus 188 



Aradus einnamomeus 324 



Araeoptaryx penelope 161 



Araneida 336, 342 



Araschnia levana 314 



Araucarioxylon 368 



(Dadoxvlon) rhodeanum 368 



vanartsdalexi 368, 369, 371 



virginianum 368, 369, 371 



woodworthi 368, 369 



wurtemburgiacum 369 



Area chiriquensis 510 



dalli 503, 510 



dariensis 502 



sp 503 



Arehilochus colubris 336, 352 



Arehiteuthidae 433 



Arehiteuthus 433 



martensii 381, 433 



Archosargus probatoeephalus 56, 58 



Arctia caja 319 



Arctiidae 343, 350 



Ardea cinerea 318 



Arenaria stricta 529 



Arethaea sellata 101 



Argonauta 384 



argo 385 



gondola 385 



hians 385 



h. navicula 385 



navicula 385 



oweni 385 



Argonautidae 384 



Arilus cristatus 299 



Aristia depressicornis 120 



Aristolochia serpentaria 141 



Armadillo vulgaris 316 



Arnilia marschalli 119 



propinqua 119 



Aronia nigra 531 



Arphia aberrans 126 



calida 114 



canora 99 



erassa 114 



decepta 114 



granulata 253 



imperfecta 114 



koebelei 114 



pallidipennis 114 



pulchripennis 114 



ramona 99 



saussureana 64 



townsendi 114 



Asclepias purpurascens 533 



verticillata 533 



Asemoplus rainierensis 163 



Aster depauperatus 521, 522, 534 




580 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Aster pamceps. 



p. pusillus... 

 Atella phalanta... 

 Ateloplus luteus 



macroscelus. 



325, 327, 329, 



minor. 



schwarzi 



Atherina laticeps 



Atlanticus 



gibbosus 269, 



glaber 



Atopichthys gillii 



novae-csesariensis 



nuttalli 



phillipsi 



strommani '. 



Aturia alabamiensis 



Aulocara brevipenne 



femoratum 



parallelum 



rufum 



scudderi 



Azalea nudiflora 



n. glandifera 



viscosa glauca 



Bacunculus blatchleyi 159 



Bairdiella chrysura, 36, 37, 56, 58, 59 



Balanus sp 503 



Batistes carotinensis 37 



Barytettix boreatis 162 



crassus 74 



peninsula? 74 



Basilona imperialis 335 



Bathycongrus mystax 11 



Belostoma americanum 345 



Belostomatidse 337, 345 



Bembidium chalceum 347 



Benacus griseus 337 



Benzoin a^stivale 537 



Bittium boiplex 509 



priscum 509 



scotti 503, 509 



Blaberus atropos 241 



cubensis 241 



Blatella germanica 339 



Blattidse 238, 337, 339 



Blepharisma lateritia 146 



Boarmia rhomboidaria 298 



Boleichthys fusiformis 41 



Boleosoma nigrum 49 



n. olmstedi 41, 49, 50, 55 



Bombus 289 



# sp 339 



Boopedon diaboticum 112 



flaviventris 112 



fuscum 112 



savannarum 112 



Bootettix argentatus 63 



Borrichia fontescens 237 



Bothrocorbula 519 



Botrychium obliquum 535 



534 

 521 

 330 

 166 

 108 

 166 

 166 

 290 

 271 

 270 

 269 



36 



35 



11 



36 



36 

 152 

 113 i 



92 



92 : 



92 ! 



64 

 532 

 532 

 538 



Botryllus..' 173 



Brachyoxylon 370 



pennsylvanicum 368, 370, 371 



Brachystola eiseni 117 



intermedia 117 



ponderosa 117 



Bradynotes caurus 76 



excelsa 100 



expleta 77 



montanus 128 



pinguis 77 



referta 77 



satur 77 



Brevoortia tyrannus 36, 41, 52 



Brochymena 300 



arborea 341 



sp 299, 337 



Bucorax caffer 325 



Bufo 335 



lentiginosis : 291 



Bulimnaea 176 



Bulla (Volvula) oxytata 504 



Buteo platypterus ...335, 352 



Byblia ilithyia 358 



Calamacris californica 117 



mexicana 117 



oculata 117 



palmeri 117 



Calamites 374 



arenaceus 374 



Calamus leucosteus 56 



Callianassa scotti 503, 503 



Calliphora sp 345 



erythrophala 300, 347 



Callista megrathiana 133 



Calliteuthis 432 



ocellata 381, 432 



reversa 381, 432 



Callocardia gatunensis multifilosa 502 



Caloptenus regatis 76 



Calosoma scrutator 336, 346 



Calotes 297 



nigrilabris 297 



ophiomachus 297 



versicolor 296, 297 



zeylanica 297 



Calotettix bicoloripes 121 



flavopictus 121 



obscurus 121 



Calyptrsea aperta 134 



Calyptraphorus velatus var. com- 



pressus 133, 134 



Camponotus 343, 344 



pennsylvanicus 348 



Campostoma anomalum 42 



Campylacantha lamprotata 107 



similis 75 



Capnobotes occidentalis uniformis 164 

 Carabidse, 334, 336, 339, 342, 343, 346- 



351 

 Carabus auratus 289 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



581 



Carabus sp 299 



Cardium (Trachycardium) domini- 



cense 501, 502 



durum 501 



(Trachycardium) durun 516 



stiriatum 502, 516 



Carex annectens 522, 526 



bicknellii 527 



cephalophora 537 



glaucodea 525 



granulans 536 



hormathodes 527 



h. richii 527 



hystericina 524 



incomperta 522, 526 



interior 522, 526 



lanuginosa 522, 524 



laxiculmis 536 



leersii 522, 526 



lurida 524 



muhlenbergii 537 



nigrornarginata 536 



normalis 522, 527 



pennsylvanica 536 



retroflecta 526 



rosea 537 



scoparia 522, 526 



stipata 537 



stricta 525 



triceps bushii 525 



t. hirsuta 525 



umbellata ardita 525 



vestita.. 536 



vulpinoidea 525 



willdenovii 525 



Carpiodes thompsoni 46 



Cassida equestris 317 



Catopsilia sp 327 



Catostomus commersonnii 46, 50, 53 



nigricans 47, 53 



Cecidomyia saliciperda 324 



Cedroxylon 370 



huttonianum 368 



lindleyanum 371 



pennsylvanicum :... 370 



Centrinus scutellum-album 347 



'Centropristis striatus 36, 41, 56 



Cephalanthus Occident alis 135 



Cephalotettix parvalus 74 



Cerambycida; 337, 344 



Cerastium oblongifolium 529 



Cerasus sp 348 



Ceratinoptera diaphana 239 



lutea 239 



Ceratomia catalpae 345 



Ceratophora stoddarti 297 



Cerchneis naumanni 325 



rupicoloides 325 



Cercopithecus pygerythrus 301 



Ceuthophilus alpinus 70 



aridus 123 



arizonensis 69 



Ceuthophilus bicolor >.. 70 



bruneri 70 



csecus 69 



celatus 68 



corticicola 68 



crassus 71 



devius 71 



discolor 71 



fusiformis 69 



grandis 68 



henshawi 71 



heros 69 



inquinatus 71* 



lamellipes 102 



latebricola 67 



latipes *. 71 



meridionalis 70 



mexicanus 70 



neglectus 70 



neomexicanus 72 



nigricans 69 



occultus 70 



pallescens 124 



palmeri 68 



paucispinosus 102 



pinguis 71 



sallei 69 



seclusus 68 



secretus 68 



silvestris 128 



tenebrarum 70 



terrestris 68 



testaceus 71 



tuckeri 102 



uniformis 69 



valgus 70 



varicator 68 



variegatus 67 



vinculatus 71 



virgatipes 108 



Chsenobryttus gulosus 56 



Chserocampa 307 



elpenor 307 



Chaetochloa imberbis 536 



italica 341 



viridis 341 



Chsetodipterus faber 34 



Chsetopoda 334, 336, 347 



Chsetura pelagica 335 



Chamsenerion angustifohum 538 



Chauliognathus 300 



pennsvlvanicus.338, 345, 348. 349 



sp 299 



Cheirolepis latus 377 



munsteri 377 



Chelonia villica 319 



Chenopodium 344 



album 341 



sp 342, 343 



Chilocorus bivulnerus 334 



Chilomonas Paramecium 146 



Chilomycterus schcepfi, 37, 41, 58, 59 




582 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Chilofhinus suensonii 13 



Chimaphila umbellata 538 



Chimarocephala ])acifica incisa 160 



p. obtusa 160 



Chione paraensis 133 



tegulum 5Q2 



ulocyma 502 



(Lirophora) ulocyma 503 



Chiroteutbidae 438 



Chiroteuthis 438 



(Chirothauma) imperator 438 



macrosoma 438 



'Chirothauma 438 



Chhenius 336, 349 



sp 343, 348 



Chlevastes elaps 13 



oculatus 15 



Cbloropsis sp 326, 328 



Chondropoma dentatum 445 



Chorisoneura plocea 97, 241 



Chortophaga australior 106, 254 



meridionalis 114 



Chrysobalanus pellocarpus 135 



Chrysochus auratus 338 



Chrysomelida? 334, 335, 337, 338, 343, 

 345, 347, 349, 350 



Chrysopa sp 342 



Chrysopidse 342 



Cicuta maculata 538 



Circotettix lapidicollis 66 



rabula 106 



shastanus 66 



splendidus 106 



Cirrhimuraena chinensis 16 



Cirroteuthidae 383 



Cistudo europsea 298 



Citharexylum villosum 242 



Citrus sp 338 



Cladium effusum 135 



Cladophora 456, 467 



Clavella hubbardanus 134 



Clementia dariena 501, 502 



Clepysaurus pennsylvanicus 378 



Clerus formicarius 288 



Clinocephalus pulcher 105 



Clinopleura minuta 167 



Clisiocampa neustria 313, 324 



Clythra quadripunctata 324 



Cnemidophorus sexlineatus 298 



Cnethocampa pinivora 324 



Coccinella sp 299 



Coccinellidae, 334, 335, 338, 341, 343, 



347, 350 



Coleps hirtus 146 



Colias philodice 339 



Colinus virginianus 334 



Colpidium colpoda 146 



Coluber aesculapii 298 



Comandra umbellata 529 



Conalcsoa huachueana 100 



neomexicana 74 



miguelatana 73 



Conalcaea truncatipennis 74 



Congeria 500 



Congrellus anago 11 



balearicus 11 



bowersi 11 



meeki 11 



Conocephalus atlanticus 128 



gracilhmus 268 



hoplomachus 107 



lyristes... 107 



melanorhinus 107 



nebrascensis 125 



Conoelinum dichotomum 135 



Conozoa albolineata 64 



carinata 99 



koebelei 64 



texana 64 



Conus concavitectum 501 



Convolvulus spithameus 538 



Copris Carolina 344 



Copsychus saularis 331 



Corbula (Cuneocorbula) hexacyma 



501, 518, 519 



radiatula 519 



synarmostes 519 



viminea 518, 519 



Cordillacris apache 105 



grinnelli 105 



pima 98 



Coregonus clupeaformis 42 



Coreidae 350 



Corimekena pulicaria 288 



Corixa brimleyi 41 



Cosmopepla carnifex 288 



Cosmotricha potatoria 313 



Cottus gracilis 50, 56 



ictalops 50, 56 



Cotylea 458, 474 



Covillea 144 



Cracca virginiana 538 



Cranchiida? 438 



Crassatella antillarum 515 



mactropsis 515 



reevi.. 515, 515, 516 



Crassatellites conradi 153 



curta • 153- 



mediamericanus 503, 515 



littoralis 153 



vadosa 153 



reevei 515 



willcoxi 152, 153 



Crastia asella 325 



Crateropus canorus 326, 328 



Cremastogaster linearis 348 m 



Crepidula plana 131 



Crcesus septentrionalis 309 



Crossarchus fasciatus 300 



Crotaphytus collaris 298 



Cryptobranchus allegheniensis... . 296 



Cryptoptilum 187, 188, 102, 207 



antillarum, 186-188, 193-196, 200- 

 207, 210, 221, 231, 272 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



583 



Crvptoptilum contectum.,187, 194, 203 



hesperum 1S6, 193, 194 



trigonipalpum, 187, 194, 202-204, 



208 



tubulatiim 187, 194, 201 



Ctenophyllum 378 



Cueujida? 347 



Cucujus clavipes 347, 348 



Cucullsea harttii 133 



Cucullia verbasci 306 



Culicidic 336 



Cuneocorbula 519 



Curculionidae 342, 347 



Cyanocitta cristata 336, 340 



Cyathodonta spenceri 518 



Cycadites 377, 379 



sp 377 



tenuinervis 374, 377 



Cyclinclla gatunensis 502 



Cyclocercus accola 74 



bistrigat a. 74 



gracilis 121 



valga 75 



Cyclopecten simplex 512 



Cvclopetia 287 



Cvcloptilum 187, 188, 193, 197, 200, 

 201, 208, 214, 218, 219 



americanum 185, 189, 190 



boreale '<>'■> 



poevi. 190 



squamosum, 185, 187, 188, 208, 

 209. 214-217 



zebra 187, 209. 214, 217, 273 



Cycloptilus 185, 186, 189, 193, 208 



americanus 190, 204, 208, 209 



borealis 124, 185, 209, 213, 214 



squamosus 196, 204, 209, 213 



Cycloptylum 189 



( Ynoscion nebulosus 56, 58 



regalis 36, 38, 58, 59 



Cynthia 173 



Cyperus diandrus 536 



rivularis • 536 



Cyphoderris monstrosus piperi 168 



Cypraea henikeni 501 



unculoides 152 



Cyprinodon variegatus 36, 37, 54, 57 



Cyprinus carpio 46, 53 



Cyrtophyllus elongatus 163 



furcatus 163 



intermedins 163 



perspicillatus 291 



Cyrtoxipha columbiana 168 



delicatula 275 



gundlachi 275 



Cystiphyllum 447, 452 



Cytherea profunda 152 



Daihinia gigantea 125 



phrixocnemoides 168 



Dalophis coecus 13 



Danainae 288 



38 



Danais 296, 297, 317 328 



chrysippus 291. 317, 327, 329 



genutia 327, 329 



limniace 327, 329 



plexippus , 297 



sept ent rionalis 317 



Dant honia spicata 523 



Daphnia 183 



Dasyscirtus olivaceus 121 



Datana menistra 294 



Deilephila euphorbise 305, 306 



Delias 317 



eucharis ...296, 327, 329 



Delphinodon dividum 135 



Dentalium microstria 134 



Dermestes sp 299 



t alpinus 347 



Dermestida? 347 



Derotmema delicatulum 96 



laticinetum 96 



lentiginosum 96 



lichenosum 96 



saussureanum 96 



Diabrotica 344, 346, 363 



12-punctata, 334, 337, 343, 345, 



347, 349 



sp 299 



vittata.. 334 



Diapheromera arizonensis 158 



(Ceratites) covillese 104 



femorata 320 



persimilis 159 



Dichopetala laevis 101 



Diehromorpha longipennis 112 



mexicana. . 112 



Dicrurus ater 326, 32S 



Diemyctylus viridescens 296 



Diplodus holbrookii 56 



Dissemurus paradiseus 326, 328 



Dissosteira Carolina 336 



pectipennis 115 



planipennis 116 



Doratosepion lis, 422 



andreana 'i - - 



Dosinia acetabulum 516 



(Artemis) acetabulum 516, 516 



delicatissima 501, 503, 516 



liogona 516 



Dracotettix calif ornicus 118 



monstrosus 62 



plutonius 126 



Drillia enneacyma 501, 505 



Drymadusa arizonensis 101 



Drymseus multilineatus 445 



Dumetella carolinensis 347, 349 



Dyscinetus trachypygus. 339, 341, 343 



Dytiscus dimidiatus 289 



marginatum 289 



Echelidse 13 



myrus 13 



polyrinus 17 




584 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Echelidse rufus 17 



Echeneis naucrates 37 



Echidna catenata 29 



chionostigma 28 



delicatula 32 



nebulosa 30, 32 



nocturna 28, 29 



peli 27 



polyzona 30 



savagei 30 



zebra 27 



zonata 30 



Echinochama antiquata 501 



Ecbinolampas appendiculatus 152 



Ectatoderus, 184, 186, 188, 207, 208, 



222, 227 



antillarum 185, 193, 196 



aztecus 185, 282 



borealis 227 



nigriventris 184, 188 



occidentalis 209, 224 



Elateridae 337 



Eleodes 355 



Ellipes minuta 272 



Elymnias undularis 327, 329, 330 



Enchelycore nigrocastaneus 18 



Encoptolophus calif ornicus 115 



coloradensis 123 



fuliginosus 115 



herbaceus 115 



montanus 115 



pallidus 126 



robust us 106 



sordidus 341, 342, 346 



subgracilis 1 60 



texensis 115 



Enneacanthus gloriosus 41, 48, 55 



Enoploteuthidae... 425 



Enoploteuthis polyonyx 482 



Entosiphon sulcatum . 146 



Eolis 544 



Eotettix hebardi . 100 



signatus 75 



Epeira diadema 289, 300 



Epicauta sp 342, 343, 350 



vittata 345, 346 



Epilachna borealis 299, 334 



Equisetites 374 



Equisetum .... 378 



Ereiba diadema 287 



Eremopedes balli . 165 



brevicauda 165 



Ergolissp 325 



Ericymba buccata 45 



Erimyzon sucetta oblongus, 37, 41, 47, 



53 



Eristalis 289 



Eritettix 251 



abortivus 63 



sylvestris 236, 251 



variabilis 63 



Erithacus rubecula... 317 



Erotylidae.. 345 



Esox americanus 41, 47, 54, 57 



reticulatus 41, 54 



Estheria ovata 377, 378 



Estigmene acrsea 345 



Etheostoma fiabellare 49 



Etropus microstomus 37 



Eucalia inconstans 48- 



Euchelia Jacobs? 308, 313, 316, 318 



Eucrangonyx 287 



Euglena viridis 146 



Eulyes amcena 317 



Eumeces sp 299 



Eupatoreum purpureum 539 



Euplcea 296, 297 



core 331 



sp 327, 329 



Euplotes patella 146 



Eupomotis gibbosus, 41, 48, 50, 55, 56, 



58 



Euproctis chrysoirhcea 324 



sp 327, 329 



Euprymna 380, 408 



^ . morsei 408, 409, 414, 422 



Eurycotis floridana 240 



Eurylepta... 456, 481 



aurantiaca 458, 481 



Euryleptidse 458. 476 



Euryleptodes 458, 482 



cavicola 458, 483 



pannulus 458, 484 



phyllulus 458, 486 



Eurymyctera acutirostris 27 



Euschema 297, 317 



Euschistus sp 344 



Euvanessa antiopa 345, 347, 348 



Evenchelys macrurus 20 



Exoglossum maxillingua 46, 53 



Fagaceae 338, 339 



Fagus grandifolia 338 



Falcicula hebardi 103 



Fasciolaria gorgasiana 501, 506 



Felichthys marinus 36 



Fiber 312 



Fidonia piniaria 324 



Fimbristylis laxa 524 



Flabellum cuneiforme 152 



Forficula auricularia 320 



Forficuladae 236 



Formica rufa 315 



sp 348 



Formicidse 343 



Fragaria sp 346, 348 



Fringillidsp 336, 338 



Fundus diaphanus, 35, 37, 41, 48, 54, 57 

 Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepi- 



dotus 34-37, 41, 47, 54, 57 



lucia? 36 57 



majalis 34, 36, 37, 38, 54, 57 



nottii 56 



Fusoficula juvenis 134 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



585 



Fusus 133 



intermedia 506 



quinquespinosus 506 



Galago 301 



Galba 176 



obrussa 176 



truncatula 176 



Galerita janus 336 



Galerucella luteola 338, 351 



Galium claytoni 539 



pilosum 534 



Gambusia gracilis 37, 56, 58 



Gasteiosteus aculeatus 58 



Gentiana villosa 533 



Geophilus longicornis 320 



Geranium maculatum 538 



Gerrhonotus infernalis 298 



Gerrhosaurus major 297 



Glaphyropus 187, 189, 218, 222 



americanus 189, 190 



Glyphostoma dentiferum 501 



Gomphocerus me-id onalis 112 



Gonatidas 424 



Gonatista grisea 242 



Gonatus 424 



fabricii 424 



Goniatron planum 114 



Gonioctena rufipes 324 



Gracula 325 



Graculifera melanoptera 298 



Graculipica nigrirostris 317 



Graphipterus 325 



Grateloupia mactropsis 515 



Gryllida 272, 339 



Gryllodes sigillatus 274 



Gryllotalpa ponderosa 125 



Gryllus 185, 300. 340 



alogus 103 



firmus 274 



griseus 185 



pallipes 185 



rubens 274 



sp 299, 339, 350 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus 73 



Gvmnothorax aquse-dulcis 21, 21 



batuensis — 



carcinognathus 22 



castanea 22 



concolor 22 



eurostus 21 



flavimarginatus 22 



funebris 22, 27 



infernalis 22 



kaupii 21 



kidako * -^ 



laysanus '-}■ 



meleagris -1 



moringua 22 



nigrocastaneus 1° 



ocellatus "7 



o. saxieola 2/ 



Gymnothorax pictus 25 



stellatus 21 



stigmanotus 25, 26 



umbrosus 18 



undulatus 21 



unicolor 22 



Gyrostachys beckii 528 



gracilis 529 



Hadropteius macrocephalus 49 



Hsemulon plumieri 56 



Haldemanella robusta 66 



Halia wailaria 287, 290 



Halticinse 336 



Hapithus quadratus 275 



Harpalus. 300 



caliginosus 336 



erythropus 334 



pennsylvanicus 299, 343 



Heirodula bipapilla 287 



Helianthemum majus 531 



Heliastuo benjamini 161 



guanieri 162 



sumichrasti subrosea 161 



Helicina clappi 445 



tantilla 445 



Heliophyllum 447, 452 



Heliopsis helianthoides 535 



scabra 535 



Helix 173 



Hemidactylus mabuia 297 



Hemiramphus brasiliensis 54 



Herpestes galera 301 



Herpetoiehthys callisoma 17 



Herpyllus 289 



Hesperia 314 



Hesperotettix coloradensis 123 



curtipennis 75 



festivus 75 



gillettei 123 



meridionalis 75 



pacificus 75 



pratensis 76 



Heterandria formosa 56 



Heterodon platyrhinos 345 



Hieracium venosum 534 



Hima 507 



Hippiscus australis H5 



sierra 99 



sp 344 



Hippocampus hudsonius 41 



Hippodamia 344, 363 



sp 299, 338, 343 



Histioteuthidae 432 



Holopterura plumbea 13 



Homceogamia apacha infuscata .... 158 



bolliana nigricans 158 



serratica • 97 



subdiaphana mohavensis....97, 104 



Hoplolibethra tuberculata 159 



Hoplosphyrum 187, 188, 222, 223, 227 

 aztecum 223, 232. 




586 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Hoplosphyrum boreale....l87, 223, 227 



occidentale, 187, 188, 222-224, 



227-229, 231 



Horesidotes cinereus 91 



papagensis 106 



Hormilia apache 101 



Houstonia coerulea 534 



Huphina phryne 327 



Hyalella 2S7 



1 1 ybern ia brumata. 306 



defoliaria 306 



Eybognathus nuchalis regius 52 



Eybopsis kentuckiensis 53 



Hydra 182 



Hvdrophilida? 339, 350 



Hydrophilus triangularis 339, 350, 351 



Hyla 295 



a rborea 304 



Hymenopus bicornis 317 



Hyphantria cunea, 300, 337, 345, 347, 



350 

 Hypolimnas misippus 327, 330 



Ichneumon 302 



Ichthyomyzon concolor 42 



Idionotus brevipes 107 



Idiosepiidae 405 



Idiosepius. 405 



paradoxa 405 



pygmaeus £05 



Idiostatus elegans 167 



rehni 107 



variegata 167 



Ilex cassine . 135 



opaca 338, 350, 351 



Inioteuthis 405, 408 



japonica 381, 405 



maculosa 408 



morsei 381, 408, 409 



Inusia bicolor 119 



inornatipes 119 



nana 119 



Ischnoptera deropeltiformis . 238 



insolita 104 



johnsoni 97 



not ha 103 



Isnardia natans 135 



Jassidse 336, 342 



Julus 291, 292, 336, 347, 362 



Junco hyemalis ...341 352 



Juncoides bullosum 52s 



campestre 528 



Juncus dichotomus platyphyilus, 



" 522. 527 

 eftusus 527 



secundus ,527 



tenuis 527 



Junonia iphita 297 



sp 327 



Kittacincla macroura 326, 328 



Kneiffia fruticosa 532 



Kneiffia linearis 532 



Krigia virginica 539 



Kuphus incrassatus 503 



Labia burgessi 238 



curvicauda 237 



guttata 238 



Labidura bidens 237 



riparia 237 



Lacerta agilis 304 



muralis 298, 304, 309 



viridis 298, 304, 316 



Lachnosterna 340, 344, 347, 363 



.sp.. 299, 339, 343, 344, 351 



Lacinaria spicata 534 



Lactista oslari . 160 



Lagocephalus laevigatas 34, 37 



Lagodon rhomboides 41, 58 



Lampides sp 325 



Lampyridae 338, 345, 348, 349 



Lanius cristatus... 331 



ludovicianus 344, 346 



Lasioeampa pini 305 



quercus .... 285 



Lasius alienus 348 



Latindia schwarzi .: . 158 



Latirus tortilis 133, 134 



Lechea minor 531 



Leioscapheus gracilicornis 120 



Leiostomus xanthurus, 37, 41, 56, 58, 59 



Leiothrix 323 



luteus 326, 328 



Leiuranus semicinetus. 13 



Lema trilineata 342, 343 



Lepidodendron 373 



Lepisma saccharina . 335 



Lepisosteus osseus 51 



Lepomis auritus 48, 50, 55 



incisor 37, 56 



punctatus 56 



Leprus interior 115 



Leptandra virginica 534, 539 



Leptinotarsa decemlineata, 294, 295, 

 299, 300, 334, 339, 349, 362 



Leptocephalidae 9 



Leptocephalus 9, 12 



caudalis 9 



conger 9, 37 



marginatus 9 



myriaster 9 



n y s t r o m i 9 



Leptomerinthophora navovittata. 120 



modesta 120 



smaragdipes 120 



Leptoplana 457 



calif ornica 455, 458, 470 



inquieta .456, 458, 470 



maculosa 455, 472 



rupicola 455, 457, 464 



saxicola 456, 457, 467 



timida 455, 457, 466 



Leptoplanida? 457 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



587 



Leptorchis liliifolia 529 



loeselii 529 



Leptysma marginicollis 257 



Lespedeza hirta 531 



nuttallii 531 



virginica 531 



Leucarctia acraea 343 



Leucichthys artedi 42 



Leuciscus elongatus 44 



vandoisulus 52 



Leuconotus biolleyi Ill 



Levifusus pagoda 133 



Licheniplana 474 



lepida 458, 474 



Ligurotettix kunzei 160 



Ligyrus gibbosus 334, 339, 341, 344 



sp 299 



Limacidse 338 



Limax sp 338, 348 



Limnas (Danais) chrysippus 325 



Lina 324 



Linoceratium boucardi 112 



Linum floridanum 531 



intercursum 531 



Liocranchia 438 



sp 438 



Liparis monacha 324 



salicis 324 



Liphoplus, 185, 186, 189, 192, 193, 207 



222, 233 



guerinianus 185 



krugii 196, 200, 204, 207, 209 



mexicanus 185, 233 



novara 185, 189, 233 



zebra 109, 185, 186, 214 



Litaneutria skinneri 98 



Lithobius forficatus 316 



sp 336, 344 



Lithothamnium glaciale 138 



Lobotes surinamensis 58 



Loliginidse 397 



Loligo 383, 397 



alesandrinii 432 



aspera 382, 398, 401 



bleekeri 382, 399 



chinensis 382, 398 



edulis 381, 398 



japonica 381, 399, 400 



kobiensis.... 381, 398 



oualaniensis 438 



sumatrensis 382, 399 



tetrodynamia 382, 399, 400 



Loligopsis 417 



chrysopthalmos 381 



ocellata 432 



Lonicera sempervirens 534 



Lophius piscatorius 58, 59 



Lophopsetta maculata 37, 38, 59 



Lota maculosa 50 



Lucania parva 57 



Lucanidse 337 



Lucilia 287 



Lumbricus fcetidus 319 



terrestris 318 



Lunulites distans 152 



Lutianus griseus 289 



Lycidse 317 



Lycodontis parvibranchialis 21 



Lycosa 287 



Lycosa sp 348 



Lygseidse 342 



Lygus pratensis 288 



Lymnsea 173-183 



auricularia 174, 182 



columella 173-183 



emarginata 182 



lanceata 182 



peregra 182 



reflexa.. 180 



stagnalis 1 82 



Lyosphsera globosa 37 



Lyria wilcoxiana var. aldrichiana 133 

 Lyriocephalus 297 



Mabuia striata 297, 301 



Macacus cynomolgus 317 



Machserocera pacifica 110 



Macrocystis pyrifera 456, 463 



Macrodactylus subspinosus 294 



Macneillia obscura 251 



Malacias capistrata 326, 328 



Malacosoma americana 345 



Malus coronaria 531 



Mania typica 309 



Manomera tenurescens 243 



Mantidse 242, 288 



Mantis 288 



Marsa tuberculata 168 



Megalodacne heros 345 



Megateuthis martensii 433 



Meibomia rigida 531 



Melanargia 314 



Melanoplus acutus 88 



affinis 79 



alaskanus 79 



ablutus 89 



algidus 90 



alleni 84 



alpinus 86 



amplectens 83 



angelicus 81 



arboreus 86 



artemisise 81 



ascensus 90 



ater 80 



attenuatus 83 



bispinosus 84 



blandus 87 



brownii 162 



bruneri 79 



calidus 90 



cancri 81 



canonicus 85 



coccineipes 85 




588 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Melanoplus coloradus 162 



compactus 85 



complanatipes 85 



comptus 85 



confusus 86 



consanguineus 80 



conspersus 85 



corpulentus 85 



cuneatus 78 



cyanipes : 84 



dealbatus 89 



debilis 90 



decorus 83 



defectus 80 



desultorius 100 



dimidipennis 124 



diminutus 80 



elongatus 79 



excelsus 79 



f emur-nigrum 88 



flabellifer brevipennis 124 



flavescens 78 



fluviatilis 127 



franciscanus 89 



fur.catus 86 



fuscipes 82 



geniculatus 82 



gillettei 81 



gladstoni 82 



gracilipes 82 



herbaceus 127 



immunis 88 



impiger 85 



impudicus 81 



incisus 88 



inconspicuus 162 



incultus 89 



indigens 81 



inops 86 



inornatus 83 



intermedins 79 



juvencus 84 



latifercula 162 



lepidus 86 



ligneolus 89 



marculentus 78 



meridionalis 81 



militaris 82 



missionum 82 



monticola 84 



nanus 89 



nitidus 81 



olivaceus 86 



palmeri 82 



paroxyoides 86, 264, 265, 266 



phcetaliotiformis 89 



picturatus 121 



pictus 79 



pilatus 89 



pinctus ' 88 



propinquus 84 



puer 262 



Melanoplus reflexus 81 



regalis 76 



rileyanus 78 



saltator 83 



sanguineus 123 



scitulus 83 



sierranus 80 



simplex 78 



snowii 84 



sonomaensis 163 



sonorse 78 



stonei 100 



terminalis. 84 



tenuipennis 82 



thomasi 86 



tristis 123 



truncatus 88 



unif ormis 80 



usitatus 88 



utahensis 79 



validus 90 



variabilis 86 



various 88 



virgatus 80 



viridipes 83 



walshii 82 



Melasoma populi 317 



Melitsea 314 



Meloe americana 344, 346 



angusticollis "... 334 



Meloidse '.....334, 342-345, 350 



Melospiza melodia 342, 344 



Menidia beryllina 54 



beryllina cerea 37 



menidia notata 36, 37, 38, 54, 58 



Menticirrhus americanus 36, 59 



saxatilis 36-38, 41 



Meretrix nuttaliopsis 133 



Merluccius bilinearis 59 



Mermiria 250 



intertexta 91 



maculipennis 62 



texana 62 



vigilans 91 



Mesalia pumila var. allentonensis 134 



Mesia argentaurus 326 



Mesogonistius chsetodon 41 



Mesops cylindricus 62 



Mestobregma gracilipes 160 



pulchella 64 



thomasi 160 



Metasepia 424 



tullbergi 424 



Metopium metopium 135 



Microcentrum rhombifolium 268 



rostratum 107 



sp 299 



thoracicum 268 



Microconger 9 



Mierodonophis erabo 16 



Microgryllus 185, 188 



pallipes 188 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



589 



Micropodidae 335 



Micropogon undulatus....37, 56, 58, 59 



dolomieu 48, 55 



salmoides 56, 345 



Microteuthis paradoxa 382, 405 



Mimus polyglottos 346 



Miogryllus Oklahoma? 168 



saussurei . " 273 



Missanga patina 325 



Mitchellia repens 534 



Modiola alabamensis 133 



Mogisoplistus 221, 222 



occidentalis. 224 



Mogoplistes, 184-186, 188, 192, 219, 



221, 222, 227 



barbouri 185 



brunneus 184, 186, 188, 221 



occidentalis 185, 222, 224 



slossoni 185, 219 



Mogoplistii 187 



Mogosiplistus 192, 221 



barbouri 185, 187, 196, 200 



slossoni, 185, 1S6, 196, 200, 219, 



221 



Mola mola 35 



Molgula 173 



Molpastes bengalensis 326, 328 



leucotis 326, 328 



Monohammus sp 344 



Monopteridse 8 



Monopterus albus 8 



Moracese 338 



Morinda roioc 135 



Moringuidae 32 



Morone americana 41, 50, 55, 58 



Morsea californica tamalpaisensis, 105 



Morns sp 338, 348 



Moxostoma aureolum 47 



Mugil cephalicus 56 



cephalus 35, 41 



curema 41 



Muhlenbergia foliosa 523 



JVIursena acutirostris 27 



annulata 15 



aqua3-dulcis 21 



augusti 20 



clepsydra 18 



colubrina 15 



erebus 22 



fasciata 15 



flavimarginata 22 



helena 18 



infernalis 22 



maculosa 16 



melanotis 20 



myrialeucostictus 18 



ophis 16 



pseudothyrsoidea 21 



thyrsoidea 20 



tigrina 16 



Muramesocida? 12 



Mursenesox savanna 12 



Muraenichthys devisi 13 



ogilbyi 13 



Mursenidse 18 



Murex (Phyllonotus) gatunensis.. 503 



Murgantia histrionica 342, 345 



Muridse 338, 339, 346 



Mus museums 338, 339, 345 



norwegicus 136, 346 



rattus 136 



r. alexandrinus 136 



Musca 287 



domest ica 335, 347 



Mustelus mustelus 36, 37, 57 



Mycalesis 297 



Myctobates pennsvlvanicus 337 



Mylabris sp ...327, 329 



Myoxocephalus oetodecimspinosus 35 



Myrica cerifera 135 



Myrichthys 17 



oculatus 16 



magnificus 16 



stypurus 17 



Myriophyllum 175 



Myrmecophila oregonensis 128 



pergandei 128 



Myrmeleon 288 



Myrmerophilinse 184 



Myrmicidse 339, 351 



Myrophis rafer 13 



Myrtacese 338 



Nassa 544 



ambigua 506, 507 



bidentata 507 



(Hima) praeambigua.503, 506, 508 



vibex 507 



Natica 501, 544 



bolus 501, 508 



canalizonalis 501 , 508 



canrena 501, 508 



semilunata 134 



Nautia conspersipes 118 



Nautilidse 439 



Nautilus pompilius 439 



Nebria pallipes 342 



Neeturus 359, 362 



Neduba carinata convexa 164 



morsei 164 



Nematus abietum 324 



salicis 324 



Nemeophila plantaginus 319 



Nemobius ambitiosus 273 



brevicaudus 122 



carolinus 273 



cubensis 273 



fasciatus abortivus 168 



f. socius 273 



palustris aurantius 109 



Neoblatella adspersicollis 239 



Neotettix bolteri 245 



coarctatus.. 244 



f emorat us 244 




590 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Neotettix variabilis 244 



Nepheronia bippia 327, 330 



NVphila 287 



Neptis kamarupa 327 



Netrosoma fusiformis 73 



nigropleura 73 



Nettopus auritus 301 



Nezara hilaris 299, 344 



Noctuidae 334 



Notropis bifrenatus 34, 41, 44, 52 



chalybseus abbotti 41 



cornutus 44, 50, 53 



deliciosus 44 



hudsonius amarus 44, 52 



photogenis amoenus 45, 53 



procne 44, 52 



rubrifrons 44 



whipplii analostanus 44, 50, 53 



Noturus flavas 47 



Nyctobates permsylvanicus 348 



Ochrilidia cinierea 62 



crenulata 62 



Ochrotettix salinus 110 



Ocotea eatesbyana 242 



Octopodoteuthidse 432 



Octopodoteuthis 432 



sicula 432 



Octopus areolatus, 381, 386, 386, 393, 



397 



brocki 393, 395 



cuvierii 389 



f ang-sio 38 1 , 386 



globosus 382, 388 



granulatus 388 



hongkongensis 381, 391 



januarii 381, 392 



kagoshimensis 382, 388 



macropus 382, 389 



membranaceus 393, 393, 397 



ocellatus 393, 393 



octopodia 386 



pictus var. fasciata 393 



punctatus 391 



pusillus 382, 389 



rugosus 388 



sinensis 381, 393 



vulgaris 382, 386, 386 



Ocythoe 385 



tuberculata 382, 385 



Ocy thoinae '... 385 



Odontoptera bidentata 298 



(Ecophylla smaragdina 297 



(Edipoda cincta 161 



Occident alis 66 



(Edomerus corallipes 120 



OEonomus altus 91 



Oligacanthopus, 187, 188, 218, 219, 222 



prograptus 187, 188, 218, 219 



Ommastrepb.es 433 



gouldi 433 



hawaiiensis 434, 437 



Ommastrephes insignis 433 



pacificus 434, 436, 437 



sagittatus 437 



s. sloanei 433 



sloanii. 433, 434, 436, 437 



Ommastrephidse 433 



Ommatolampis annulicornis 120 



Oniscus asellus 321, 336, 347, 350 



Onthophagus hecate 347 



Onychoteuthis fabricii 424 



kamtschatica 4®4 



Opeia imperfecta Ill 



mexicana Ill 



palmeri Ill 



testacea 91 



Ophichthus havannensis 16 



hispanus 17 



ocellatus 18 



rufus 17 



stenopterus 17 



triserialis 17 



uniserialis 17 



Ophichthyidae 13 



Ophichthys naja 15 



stenopterus 17 



stypurus 16, 17 



uniserialis 17 



Ophisurus alternans 15 



guttatus 16 



hispanus 17 



ophis 16 



serpens 18 



Opisthonema oglinum 57 



Opisthoteuthis 384 



depressa 382, 384 



Opsanus tau 36, 59 



Orchelimum delicatum 125 



fidicinium 108 



gladiator. 125 



gracile 125 



militare 108 



minor 125 



molossum 108 



Orchesticus nigromarginata 165 



Orgyia 301 



antiqua ,303, 305, 308 



leucostigma 300, 337, 346 



pudibunda 303 



sp 324 



Ornebius 184, 188, 222 



nigripalpis 184 



xanthopterin 184, 188 



Orocharis saulcyi 276 



Orphula meridionalis Ill 



Orphulella costaricensis 112 



grancinea 112 



meridionalis 112 



pelidna 253 



Orthopristis chrysopterus 56, 58 



Osmoderma sp 344 



Osmunda spectabilis 522 



Ostrea 133, 500 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



591 



Ostrea crenulimarginata 133 



gatunensis 503 



pulaskensis 133 



thirsse 133 



Otocompsa emeria 326, 328 



Otrynter caprinus 56 



Palaemonetea variegatus 37 



Palissya 373 



diffusa 377 



obtusa 377 



Panicularia nervata 524, 536 



Panicum boscii 523 



b. molle 523 



depauperatum 522 



huachuca? silvicola 522 



lindheimeri 535 



linearifolium 522 



meridionale 536 



sanguinale 341 



villosissimum 523 



Panorpa nuptialis 299 



Papagoa arizonensis 110 



Papilio : 141 



aristolochia?, 296, 297, 301, 325, 



327, 329 



demoleus 327, 329, 330 



pammon 317 



philenor 141 



polites 327, 330 



troilus 338 



turnus 338, 342, 344 



Papilionidae 338, 342 



Paracyrtophyllus robustus 163 



Paraidemona mimica 75 



Paralichthys dentatus 36, 38, 58, 59 



let host igmus 56 



Paramecium aurelia 146 



buisaria 146 



caudatum 146 



Paratylotropidia brunneri 78 



Paropomala acris 105 



dissimilis 110 



pallida 109 



perpallida 105 



Paroxya atlantica 264-266 



a. paroxyoides 264 



Parus' communis 324 



major 306, 324 



Paspalum keve circulare 535 



Passalus cornutus 337, 349 



Passer domesticus 336, 341, 345, 352 



Pecten 502 



(Amusium) luna 501, 514 



lyonii 513 



madisonius 512 



membra nosus 1 52 



mortoni 513, 514 



(Cyclopecten) oligolepis, 501, 512, 



513 

 (Oxygonum) optimum, 511, 512, 



513 



Pecten (J?quipecten) oxygonum 



canalis 503, 511, 512 



papyracea 513 



paranensis 511, 512 



pleuronectes 513 



(Euvola) reliquus 591, 510 



(Amusium) sol 503, 513 



(Amusium) sp 503 



subhvalinus 512, 513 



touke 513, 514 



Pedioscertetes pulchella 61, 63 



Pelopseus 291 



Penitella penita 456 



Pentatomidse, 337, 341, 342, 344, 345 



Peranema trichophorum 146 



Perca flavescens 49, 55, 56 



Percina caprodes 49 



Periplaneta semipicta 240 



Persea pubescens 135 



Petricola millestriata 501, 516 



Petromyzon marinus 42, 51, 57 



Peuce huttonia 370 



Peyotettix chenopodii 127 



gracilis 127 



hispidus 127 



washingtonius 127 



Phsedrotettix angustipennis 73 



Phalera bucephala 319 



Pharmacophagus 317 



Phasianidse 337, 338 



Phasmidae 242 



Phaulotettix compiessus 74 



Phenacolepas granulosa 151 



malonei 151 



mirabilis 151 



navacelloides 151 



Philosamia cynthia 337, 339, 340 



Phlebodium aureum 135 



Phlegethontius 5-maculatus 347 



sp 334 



Phcetalia laevigata 240 



Pholas... 134 



Phragmites phragmites 135 



Phrixocnemis bellicosus 72 



franciscanus 102 



hastiferus 102 



inhabilis 102 



socorrensis 102 



truculent us 72 



validus 72 



Phrynosoma cornutum 299 



Phrynotettix taosanus 100 



Phyllopertha hordeola 324 



Phylloplana 472 



litoricola 458, 472 



Physoblemma 185 



Physomerus 287 



Pieridae 334, 350 



Pieris brassicse, 291, 298, 306, 309, 314, 



323, 324 



napi 314 



rapae 313, 320, 334, 350 




592 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Piezia 325 



Pimephales notatus 43 



Pinus caribsea 135 



virginiana 522 



Pisoodonophis magnifica 16 



Plagiostira albonotata brevipes 167 



' gillettei 167 



gracilis 101 



Planocera 459 



burchami 457, 461 



calif ornica 455, 457, 459 



hawaiiensis 469 



Planoceridse 457, 459 



Platybothrus alticola 98 



Platvcleis fletcheri 167 



Platynus sp 342 



Platyzosteria ingens 240 



sabalianus 240 



Plectoptera poeyi 241 



Plectrotettix calidus 113 



excelsus 113 



Plethodon cinereus erythronotus... 345 



glutinosus 345 



Pleurotoma 134 



(Gemmula) vaningeni 501, 505 



Pleurotomaria nixa 152 



Podisma ascensor 77 



dairisama 78 



nubicola 77 



oreas 107 



parnassica 78 



polita 87 



variegata 77 



Podozamites formosus 377 



Poecilophis nocturna 28 



tritor 32 



Pcecilotettix coccinatus 87 



sanguineus 87 



Pogonias cromls 37, 58, 59 



Polistes 291 



Polygonatum commutatum 537 



Polygonum. 344 



sp 343 



Polygyra ceriolus carpflhteriana 445 



Polyhirma 325 



Polypodida? 3S(i 



Polypodium polvpodioides 135 



Polypus 386, 397 



areolatus... ...386, 393, 395 



brocki 386 



cuvieri 386 



dOfleini 382, 386, 391, 392 



fang-siao 386 



globosus 386, 388, 392 



granulatus 386, 388, 388 



hongkongensis. ...383, 386, 391, 392 



jaunarii 386, 392 



kagoshimensis 386, 388 



macropus 386, 389, 389 



membranaceus 386, 397 



ocellatus 386 



pictus fasciatus 382, 386, 393 



Polypus punctatus 391 



pusillus 386, 389 



rugosus 386 



sinensis 386 



vulgaris 386 



Pomatomus saltatrix 37, 41, 55, 58 



Pomolobus aestivalis 41, 51 



mediocris 38, 41, 51, 57 



pseudoharengus 38, 42, 51, 57 



Pomoxis sparoides 48 



Poronotus triacanthus 34, 58 



Porthesia auriflua 306, 308 



Porthetria dispar 324 



Priodonophis 27 



Prionotus evolans strigatus '....41, 59 



Pristoceuthophilus marmoratus .... 102 



Proctolabus brachypterus 119 



Prolabia unidentata 238 



Promachoteuthis 417 



megaptera 381, 417 



Prorocorypha snowi 98 



Proserpinaca platycarpa 135 



Prunus americana 538 



Pseudoceridse 458 , 474 



Pseudopleuronectes americanus, 38, 41, 



56 



Pseudopriacanthus altus 35 



Pseudosermyle banksii 159 



tenuis 104 



Pseudosuccinea columella. 176 



Psilothrix nobilis 317 



obesus 120 



Psinidia fenestralis 161, 256 



sulcifrons amplicornus 161 



Psoloessa buddiana 63 



eurotiae 63 



Pterostichus lucublandus 288 



sayi. 342 



Pterozamites 378 



Pycnonotus sinensis 326, 328 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis 241 



Pygaera bucephala 308 



menistra 294 



Pygosteus pungitius 34. 



Pyrula decussata 507, 508 



micronematica 503, 507, 508 



papyracea. 507 



pilsbryi 507 



Quercus alba 529 



marylandica 529 



prinoides 529 



sp * 339 



stellata 529 



velutina 529 



virginiana 135 



Rabula... 21 



davisi 21 



panamensis 20 



Rachycentron canadus 37 



Radinotatum brevipenne. 246, 248, 250 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



593 



Radinotatum brevipenne peninsu- 



lare 246,250 



Radiolepis elegans 377 



Radix ■ 176 



Raja eglanteria 34, 36, 38 



erinacea 41, 57 



Ramond deserticola 116 



Rana clamata 295 



sylvatica 295 



temporaria 297 



tigrina 291 



virescens 295 



Reduviidse 342 



Rehnia spinosa 164 



victorise 164 



Retinia buoliana 324 



turionana 324 



Rhabdopelix longispinis 377 



Rhabdotettix concinnus 74 



palmeri 74 



Rhabdura 20 



Rhachicreagra aeruginosa 122 



gracilis 122 



pallipes 122 



Rhicnoderma pugnax 119 



Rhinichthys atronasus 45, 50, 53 



Rhus radicans 538 



Rimella 134 



Ringicula hypograpta 501^505 



Rissola marginata 37, 41 



Roccus chrysops 49 



lineatus 55 



Romalea microptera 256 



Rosa humilis 530 



palustris 530 



rugosa 354 



Rossia 417 



sp 417 



Rubus argutus 537 



frondosus 530 



invisus 530 



villosus 530 



villosus enslenii 530 



Rynchospora smallii 536 



Sabal palmetto 135 



Sabella 456 



Sagittaria lancifolia 135 



Salix longipes 135 



Salvelinus fontinalis 42 



Sarda sarda 58 



Saxicola pileata 301 



Saxifraga virginiensis 530 



Sayornis 312 



Scapteriscus abbreviatus 272 



Scarabseid*, 334, 337, 339, 341, 343, 



344, 346, 347, 351 



Scarites 340, 351 



subterraneus 299, 334, 339, 351 



Sceliphron 291 



Sceloporus floridanus 298, 300 



undulatus 299, 300, 345 



Schilbeodes gyrinus 47, 54 



insignis 54 



Schistocerca sequalis 94 



alutacea 261, 262 



americana 257 



aurantia 93 



bogotensis 94 



camerata 93 



carinata •••• 93 



crocotaria 93 



damnifica 258, 259, 261, 262 



d. calidior 258, 261, 262 



desiliens 94 



gracilis 93 



gulosa 94 



idonea 94 



infumata 94 



interrita 93 



lineata 95 



maya 94 



mellea 93 



mexicana 95 



obliquata 95 



pallens 258 



perturbans 95 



pyramidata 94 



separata 95 



sonorensis 94 



venusta 95 



vittafrons 121 



zapoteca 93 



Schizaster schertzeri 503 



Schizoneura 379 



laticostata 374 



planicostat a 374 



sp 377 



Scisenops ocellatus 36, 58, 59 



Scirpus atrovirens 524 



validus •••■ 536 



Scirtetica marmorata 254-256 



m.picta 254-256 



occidentalis 126 



ritensis 99 



Scleria pauciflora 524 



Scolytidse 324 



Scomber scombrus -• 58 



Scomberomorus maculatus 55, 5S 



Scudderia texensis 268 



Scutella lyelliana 152 



Scutellaria integrifolia o39 



parvula ambigua 522, 534 



pilosa 53S 



Selene vomer 41, 55 



Semele chipolana 503, 517 



Semotilus atromaculatus 43, 50, 52 



bullaris 43, 52 



Senecio balsamitse 535 



Sepia 383,397,417 



aculeata 382,417,418 



(Doratosepion) andreana, 381, 41/ , 

 418, J&2, 422 




594 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Sepia (Doratosepion) andreanoides,381, 



417, 423, 423 

 (Doratosepion) appellofi, 382, 417, 



424, 424 



chrysophthalmos 417 



elliptica 382, 417, 419 



esculenta 381, 417-419 



formosana 383, 420, 422 



hercules 382, 417, 419 



hoylei 382, 417, 419 



inermis ...417, 424 



(Doratosepion) kobiensis, 381, 417, 



428, 423 

 (Doratosepion) lorigera, 422, 382, 



417, 422 



microcheirus 424 



microcotyledon 422 



(Doratosepion) misakiensis, 382, 



417, 424 



myrsus 381, 417 



(Doratosepion) peterseni, 382, 417 



423, 423 



rouxii 422 



rugosus 388 



sinensis 381, 417 



sinope 422 



(Doratosepion) tokioensis, 382, 



417, 423, 423 



torosa 382, 417, 420 



(Metasepia) tullbergi, 382, 417, 



424, 424 

 Sepiella 424 



inermis 424 



maindroni 381, 424 



Sepiidae 417 



Sepiola 408 



bursa 408, 414 



inioteuthis 405 



japonica 381, 405, 406 



Sepiolidae ; .. 405 



Sepiolina 417 



nipponensis 414 



Sepioteuthis 401, 404 



brevis 405 



lessoniana 382, 401, 422 



sieboidi 404 



. sinensis 381, 401 



Serica vespertina 288 



Seriola lalandi 58 



zonata 35 



Sermyle arbuscula 98 



Seserinus paru 34, 58 



Sialia sialis 350, 351 



Sigaretus (Ermaticina) gabbi 501, 509 



multilineatus 509 



Silpha 346 



insequalis 346 



Silphidae . 346 



Silvitettix communis 110 



Simenchelyidae 9 



Simenchelys parasiticus 9 



Sinaloa behrensii 75 



Siphia hyperythra 331 



Sisantum notochloris Ill 



Sistrurus catenatus 362 



Sisyrinchium gramineum 537 



mucronatum 528 



Sitones sp 342 



Smilax herbacea crispifolia 528 



laurifolia 135 



Solen amphistemma 501 



Solidago aspera 534 



rugosa 534 



Sphenarium affine 118 



barretti 118 



bolivari 117 



marginatum 117 



minimum 118 



planum 118 



rugosum 117 



Sphenopholis obtusata 522, 523 



o. pubescens 522, 523 



Spheroides maculatus 36, 41, 59 



Sphingidse 334 



Sphyrsena borealis 37 



Sphyrna zygsena 41 



Spilosoma menthastri 286 



Spirobolus 301 



Spondylus americanus 514 



gregalis 1 52 



gumanomocon. 514 



scotti 503, 514 



varians 514 



Spongophora apicedentata 158 



Squalus acanthias 41 



Squatina squatina 35 



Stagmomantis californica 104 



Carolina 242, 299 



gracilipes 98 



Stauropus 302, 303 



fagi 301, 302 



Staphylinidse 288, 347 



Staphylinus 302 



Stenobothrus oregonensis 91 



Stenopelmatus terrenus 102 



Stenotomus chrysops 58 



Stephanolepis hispidus 37 



Stilpnochlora marginella 268 



Stipator bruneri 165 



grandis 101 



grandis insignis 165 



mitchelli 165 



nigromarginatus griseis 165 



Stirapleura brachyptera 113 



meridionalis 113 



pusilla 92 



salina 113 



tenuicarina 92 



Stizostedion canadense : 49 



vitreum 49 



Stoloteuthis 414 



iris 416 



leucoptera 416 



nipponensis 383, 414, 417 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



595 



Stoparola sordida 331 



Storeria dekayi 345 



Sturnus menzbieri 326, 328 



Stylochoplana 463 



calif ornica 457 



gracilis 463 



Stylopyga orientalis 299, 337 



Stylostomum 476 



calif ornicum 455, 458 



lentum 476 



Succinea floridana 445 



Symplect ot eu this 438 



oualaniensis 382, 438 



Synageles picata 289 



Synallaxis 365 



gularis 365 



g. pichinchie 365 



Synallaxis gularis rufipectus 365 



Synaphobranchidaj 9 



Synaphobranchus pinnatus 9 



Synbranchidse 8 



Synbranchus marmoratus 8 



Synemosyna formica 289 



Syngnathus fuscus 37, 38, 58 



Syrbula acuticornis 63 



modesta 110 



pacifica 110 



Taeniophora femorata 119 



Taeniopoda bicristata 118 



maxima 118 



obscura 118 



Tafalisca lurida 276 



Talinum teretifolium 529 



Taraxacum taraxacum 341, 343 



Tarpon atlanticus 34 



Tautoga onitis 36, 56, 59 



Tautogolabrus adspersus 35, 36 



Tegenaria domestica 289 



Teinophaus saussurei 121 



Telea polyphemus 337 



Tellina aequiterminata 501, 517 



(Eurytellina I retula. .....503, 517 



Telmatodytes palustris 345 



Temnopteryx desert se 103 



Tenebrio 335 



molitor :>47 



obscurus 337 



Tenebrionidae 337, 347, 348 



Tenthredinidae 334, 337 



Terebratula wilmingtonensis 152 



Terias hecabe 331 



sp 327, 329 



Tetramorium caespitum 339, 351 



Tettigidea lateralis 246 



spicat a 245 



Tettigoniidae 268 



Thalictrum revolutum 529 



Thelidioteuthis 432 



alessandrinii 383, 432 



polyonyx 432 



Thracia (Cyathodonta) gatunensis 518 



(Cyathodonta) isthmica 501 



Thrincus aridus 66 



maculatus 66 



Thyre'onotus cragini 126 



scudderi 126 



Thyriptilon vitripenne Ill 



Thyrsoidea 21 



concolor 22 



eurosta 21 



kaupi 21 



Ion gissima 21 



Thysanophora caeca 445 



incrustata 445 



plagioptycha 445 



selenina 445 



Thysanoteuthidse 438 



Thysanot eut his 438 



rhombus 438 



Tinea pellionella 335 



Todarodes 437 



pacihcus 381, 433 



sloanei 'fSS 



Tofieldia racemosa 149 



Tomonotus ferruginosus 126 



Toxostoma rufum 349, 352 



Trachinotus carolinus 38,41, 56 



Trachyrhachis compacta 116 



inconspicua 1 16 



occidentalis 116 



townsendi 116 



Tremoctopodhue 386 



Tremoctopus 386 



doderleini 382, 385 



violaceus 382, 386 



Trichiurus lepturus 58 



Trichius piger 344 



Trimerotropis arenaceus 99 



azurescens 65 



bif asciat a 65 



bilobata 106 



C3eruleipennis 126 



californica 65 



cyaneipennis 64 



inconspicua 123 



magnifica 99 



modesta 65 



pacifica 65 



perplexa < 66 



rubripes 100 



schaefferi 161 



snowi 100 



thalassica 62, 65 



titusi 161 



townsendi 116 



Triton alpestris 291 



punctatus 291 



Trochus 544 



Trogosita virescens 342 



Trogositido? 342 



Troxsp 343, 346 



Tupaia ferruginea 301 




596 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Turbonilla (Chemnitzia) bartschi- 



ana.... 504, 509, 510 



Turbonilla gatunensis 501, 510 



l'uiiiix taigoor 326, 328 



Turritella 133 



altilira 501-503 



gal unensis 502 



humerosa var. elicitatoides 134 



mortoni 133,134 



nerinexa 134 



Tylosurus marinus 41, 48, 54 



raphidoma 37 



Typha latifolia 135 



Typocerus sinuatus 337 



Udeopsylla compacta 124 



serrata 103 



vierecki 103 



Umbra limi 47 



pygmsea 37, 41, 47, 54, 57 



Uropterygius macrocephalus 32 



Uvularia perfoliate 537 



Vacciniiim atrococcum 533 



caesariense 533 



corymbosum. '. 532, 533 



vacillans 533 



v. crinitum 533 



Vanessa antiopa 312 



urticEe 308, 309, 313 



Varicella gracillima floridana 445 



Vasum haitense 153 



wilmingtonense 1 52, 153 



Yates townsendi 98 



Venericardia 133 



alticost at a 133 



planicosta 133 



Venerupis 134 



Veranyidse 432 



Vertigo hebardi 445 



Vertigo oralis 445 



rugosula 445 



Vespa 291 



vulgaris 316 



Viola conspersa 538 



emarginata 538 



fimbriatula 532 



pedata lineariloba 531 



Vireo olivaceus 345 



Vitis munsoniana 135 



Vitrea dalliana 445 



Voluta sp 152 



Volvula micratracta 501 



Volvulella micratracta 504 



Vorticella 147 



nebulifera 146 



Willugbaeya scandens 135 



Xenopus laevis 300 



Xiphidion allardi 164 



gracillimum H6S 



modestum 124 



nigropleurum 124 



Xylocopa virginica 339 



Yersinia sophronica 104 



Ypthima ceylonica 325 



philomera var. argus 277 



Zacycloptera atripennis 164 



Zanutes velderi 377 



Zapata brevipennis 113 



Zaphrentis 447, 452 



Zizia aurea 532 



Zonotrichia albicollis 352 



Zootoca vivipara 304 



Zosterops sp 326 



Zygsena filipendula 319 



trifolii 317 




1912.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



597 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1912. 



Additions to Museum, 569. 



Baily, William L. An ornithological 

 trip to the Magdalen Islands (no ab- 

 stract), 2. The photography of wild 

 birds (no abstract), 142. 



Banquet, 149. 



Bascom, Florence. The petrographic 

 province of Neponset, Massachu- 

 setts (no abstract). The lavas of 

 South Mountain, Pennsylvania 

 (no abstract), 156. 



Bellows, Horace, announcement of 

 death of, 490. 



Berry, J. Stillman. A catalogue of 

 Japanese Cephalopoda (Plates V- 

 IX), 380, 489. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 559. 



Botanical Section, report of, 562. 



Boulenger, G. A. A synopsis of the 

 genus Mastacembelus, 130. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 559. 



Brown, Amos P., and H. A. Pilsbry. 

 Notes on a collection of fossils from 

 Wilmington, N. C. (Plate I), 130, 

 152. Fauna of the Gatun Formation, 

 Isthmus of Panama, II (Plates 

 XXII-XXVI), 499, 500. 



Brown, Stewardson. Report of Bo- 

 tanical Section, 563. 



Bryant, Henry C. Government agen- 

 cies in the advancement of geo- 

 graphical knowledge in the United 

 States, 148. 



Burns, Charles Marquedent, vote of 

 thanks to, 7. 



Calvert, Philip P. Report on Second 

 International Entomological Con- 

 gress (no abstract), 490. Waterfall 

 inhabiting dragonflies of Costa Rica 

 (no abstract), 491. 



Caudell, A. N., and Morgan Hebard. 

 Fixation of the single type (lecto- 

 type) specimens of species of Ameri- 

 can Orthoptera, Part II, 154, 157. 

 See Rehn and Hebard. 



Centenary celebration, 129. Resolu- 

 tions, 155. 



Clarke, John M. Early adaptation in 

 feeding habits of starfishes, 6. 



Colton, Harold Sellers. Lymnaea 

 columella, and self-fertilization, 156, 

 173. 



Committees, Standing, 1. 



Conklin, Edwin G. Experimental 

 studies in nuclear and cell division 

 in the eggs of Crepidula, 134, 489. 



Conesponding Secretary, report of,. 

 549. 



Council, 1913, 567. 



Curators, report of, 555. 



Dahlgren, Ulric. On the production 

 of light by animals (no abstract), 

 7. 



Dall, William H. Mollusk-fauna of 

 northwest America (no abstract), 

 148. 



Department of Mollusca, report of, 

 558. 



Dickey, Rev. Charles A., announce- 

 ment of death of, 2. 



Dixon, Samuel G., presentation of 

 portrait of, 400. Report of Curators, 

 555. 



Dixon, Samuel G., Mrs. Dixon and 

 Miss Dixon. Centenary reception, 

 143. 



Donaldson, Henry H. The history and 

 zoological position of the albino rat,. 

 136. 



Dyer, Sir William Thiselton. On the 

 supposed Tertiary antarctic conti- 

 nent, 130. 



Election, annual, 566. 



Elections in 1912, 568. 



Entomological Section, report of, 560. 



Fowler, Henry W. Description of nine 

 new eels, with notes on other species, 

 6, 8. Record of fishes from the 

 Middle Atlantic Coast and Virginia, 

 6, 34. 



P'ukuda, T. Statistical studies on 

 variation in the wing-length of a 

 butterfly of the sub-family Satyrinse, 

 277, 489. 



Furness, Horace Howard, announce- 

 ment of death, of 490. 




.7. IN 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



A., announcement 

 announcement of 



David Alter, the 

 spectrum analysis, 



Reef-building and 



Griscom, (.'lenient 

 of death of, 491 



Haines, .lane R., 

 death of, 155. 



Harshberger, John W. The physiog- 

 raphy and vegetation of the Florida 

 Everglades (no abstract), 6. The 

 vegetation of the banana holes of 

 Florida, 130, 134. 



Heath, Harold, and Ernest A. 

 McGregor. New polyclads from 

 Monterey Bay, California (Plates 

 XII-XVIII), 455, 489. 



History of the Academy, by the 

 Recording Secretary, 6. 



Hoernes, Rudolf, announcement of 

 death of, 400. 



Holland, William J. 

 first discoverer of 

 134. 



Houston, Edwin J. How the natural 

 sciences can lie made attractive to 

 the young, MM. 



Howe. Marshall A. 



lancl-forming seaweeds, 137. 



Index to the scientific contents of the 

 Journal and Proceedings of the 

 Academy, by the Recording Secre- 

 tary, 6. 



Isaac Lea Collection, report of Cus- 

 todian, 559. 



Ives, .James E. The radiation of energy, 

 L56. 



Jacobs, Merkel H. Physiological 

 characters of species, 146. 



Keeley, Frank J., report of Curator 

 of William S. Vaux Collections, 558. 



Lewis, Graceanna, announcement of 

 death of, 154. 



Librarian, report of, 551. 



Loeb, Jacques. Experiments on adap- 

 t at ion to high temperatures (no 

 abstract), 141. 



Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Natural 

 history morality, 138. Report of 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 563. 



McAfee, W. L. The experimental 

 method of testing the efficiency of 

 warning and cryptic coloration in 

 protecting animals from their ene- 

 mies, 281, 489. 



Macfarlane, John M. The relation 

 of protoplasm to its environment, 

 117. 154. 



Maury, Carlotta J. A contribution 

 to (he paleontology of Trinidad, 

 6, 132. 



-Meiirs, Edward B., and L. A, Ryan. 

 The ash of smooth muscle, 136. 



-Milne, Caleb J., announcement of 

 death of, 490. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 report of, 563. 



Mitchell. Edward Craig, announce- 

 ment of death of, 490. 



Montgomery, Thomas H. Human 

 spermatogenesis: spermatocytes and 

 spermiogenesis 6. Announcement 

 of death of, 130. Resolutions, 154. 



Moore, Clarence B. Some aboriginal 

 sites, on Red River, 156. 



Moore, J. Percy, report of Corre- 

 sponding Secretary, 549. 



Morgan, T. H. Further experiments 

 with mutations in eye-color of 

 Drosophila: The loss of the orange 

 factor, 156. 



Nelson, J. A. Structural peculiarities 

 in an abnormal queen bee, 3, 6. 



Nolan, Edward J. Presentation of 

 portrait of, 7. History of the 

 Academy (no abstract), 130. Rem- 

 iniscences (no abstract), 130. Vote 

 of thanks, 499. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 545. Report of Librarian, 

 551. 



Officers, 1913, 566. 



Ornithological Section, report of, 564. 



Osborn, Henry Fairfield. Tetraplasy, 

 a law of the four inseparable factors 

 of evolution, 144, 156. 



Parker, George Howard. The relation 

 of smell, taste and the common 

 chemical sense in vertebrates, 130, 

 147. 



Parvin, Thomas I., announcement of 

 death of, 490. 



Pennell, Francis W. Further notes on 

 the flora • of the Conowingo or 

 Serpentine Barrens of southeastern 

 Pennsylvania, 520. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. On the tropical 

 element in the molluscan fauna of 

 Florida, 142. A study of the vari- 

 ations and zoogeography of Liguus 

 in Florida, 490. Report of Depart- 

 ment of Mollusca, 558. 



Potts, Edward, announcement of death 

 of, 2. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 545. 



Rehn, James A. G. The orthopteran 

 inhabitants of the Sonoran creosote 

 bush, 143. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan 

 Hebard. Fixation of single type 

 (lectotype) specimens of species of 

 North American Orthoptera (Part 

 I), 7, 60. See Caudell and Hebard. 

 A revision of the genera and species 

 of the Group Mogoplistii (Orthop- 

 tera: Gryllidse) found in North 

 America, north of the Isthmus of 

 Panama, 184, 489. On the Orthop- 




1912. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



599 



tera found on the Florida Keys 

 and in extreme southern Florida, 

 I, 235, 489. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 559. 



Report of Botanical Section, 562. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 

 549. 



Report of Curator of William S. Vaux 

 Collections, 558. 



Report of Curators, 555. 



Report of Custodian of the Isaac Lea 

 Collection, 559. 



Report of Department of Mollusca, 

 558. 



Report of Entomological Section, 560. 



Report of Librarian, 551. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 563. 



Report of Ornithological Section, 564. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 545. 



Reports of Sections, 559. 



Shufeldt, R. W. Notes on a prehistoric 

 race of Yucatan (Plates XIX, XX, 

 XXI), 491, 492. 



Skinner, Henry. Mimicry in Boreal 

 American Lepidoptera, 7. Mimicry 

 in butterflies, 141. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 560. 



Smith, Benjamin H. On recent species 

 of Crataegus (no abstract), 6. 



Smith, Burnett. Observations on the 

 structure of some coral beds in the 

 Hamilton Shale (Plates X, XI), 

 447, 489. 



Spitzka, Edward Anthony. On the 

 production of light by animals (no 

 abstract), 7. 



Standing Committees, 1. 



Standing Committees, 1913, 568. 



Stone, Witmer. Fauna and flora of the 

 New Jersey Pine Barrens, 149. A 

 new Synallaxis, 365, 489. Report 

 of Ornithological Section, 564. 



Thompson, Will F. The protoconch of 

 Acmaea, 499, 540. 



Trotter, Spencer. The faunal divis- 

 ions of eastern North America in 

 relation to vegetation, 130, 142. 

 Biological aspects of population 

 (no abstract), 155. 



True, Frederick W. Description of a 

 new fossil porpoise of the genus 

 Delphinodon from the Miocene 

 Formation of Maryland, 7, 135. 



Tucker, Henry. Harmless and useful 

 "snakes (no abstract), 154. 



Vanatta, E. G. Phenacolepas malonei 

 n. sp., 151. A new species of Vertigo 

 from Florida, 445, 489: 



Yaughan, Thomas Wayland. On the 

 rate of growth of stony corals (no 

 abstract), 130, 142. 



Vaux, George, Jr. Appointment as 

 Solicitor of Academy. 



Verrill, A. E. The Gorgonians of the 

 Brazilian coast, 156. 



Von Ihering, H. Analyse der Siid- 

 amerikanischen Heliceen, 400. 



Von Wijhe, J. W., withdrawal of paper, 

 490. 



Wherry, Edgar T. Apparent sun- 

 crack structures and ringing-rock 

 phenomena in the Triassic Diabase 

 of Eastern Pennsylvania, Plate II, 

 156, 169. The Triassic of Pennsyl- 

 vania, 156. Silicified wood from the 

 Triassic of Pennsylvania (Plates 

 III, IV), 366, 489. Age and corre- 

 lation of the ''New Red '' or Newark 

 Group of Pennsylvania, 373, 4S9. 



Willcox, Joseph. Appointment as 

 Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections. Report of Custodian of 

 Isaac Lea Collection of Eocene 

 Mollusca, 559. 



William S. Vaux Collections, report 

 of Curator. 558, 



39 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XII 



b. 



be. 



fr§V e - 



ib 



■ -■' 



fk'A"4'''--f'"--'v'- *: 



">C Y>~cV 'f- 



nt -^ - | ft 





be. s 



%3- 



te. 



'■*. . 



ib. 



■ 7 £?K?*b 



" ;; ^' : - 



)mg>- 



ib. 



vd. 



ps. 



ag- 



HEATH AND MCGREGOR; NEW POLYCLADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XIII. 



8 ,•••■ 



10 



be. 



\. ab. 





* : 



■■' 



me? 



HEATH AND MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLADS 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XIV. 



1/ 



ae 



be. 





"g- 



c- ;;"< ■< 



19 



be. 





te. • . 



« 



20 



nt. 



'•• 





be. 



£b 



21 



HEATH and MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XV. 



23 



26 



sg 





af. 



ps. 



28 



mg. 



ib. 



o 



HEATH and MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19l2. 



PLATE XVI. 



29 



••'"V 



"N - , be. 



■r> 1 



ai. 





a -o*. • 



. • ° Oo • 



*o%b;°-'o- 



mg. 





HEATH AND MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLADS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XVII. 



af. sc 



HEATH AND MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLAD3. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XVIII. 



39 





• ■ . . * 



40 



r *l» b -> 



% •• % 



42 



be. 



5i.s 



• ••. 



• •• 





te - •••**! 







: b. 





dp. 



vd. 



44 



am. 



O' 



43 



• • 



%?'- '&'■> 



*•* 



te. 



' 1 



^^ te. 



•J* £>.*■ 



af. 



O" 



dp,. 



HEATH AND MCGREGOR: NEW POLYCLADS. 





a 

 o 

 o 



X 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XX. 



SHUFELDT: A PREHISTORIC RACE OF YUCATAN. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XXI. 



SHUFELDT: A PREHISTORIC RACE OF YUCATAN. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XXII. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: FAUNA OF THE GATQN FORMATION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XXIII. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XXIV. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1912. 



PLATE XXV. 



BROWN AND PILSBRY: FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1912. 



PLATE XXVI. 



BROWN and PILSBRY: FAUNA OF THE GATUN FORMATION. 







MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



111 



H IflSD D 





