




i I 

 OS 



i i 



B 



Ph 



-i 



w 



Q 



o 



i i 



o 



gq 



H 

 <! 



O 







H 




The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



Philadelphia 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE MEETING 



HELD MARCH 19, 20 AND 21, 1912, IN COMMEMORATION OF THE 



ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOUNDING 



OF THE ACADEMY 



SCl 



tfSTITCTEJ^ 

 MDCCCXH 



/t?/ ||\incorporatedJ|| /&/ 



.MDCCCXVII 



PHILADELPHIA 



Published by the Academy 



1912 








PRESS OF 



The New Era printing Company 

 Lancaster. Pa. 




CONTENTS. 



Introduction vii 



Proceedings of the Sessions, March 19, 20, and 21 x 



The Mayor's Address x 



The President's Address xii 



" Reminiscences " by the Recording Secretary xxi 



Record of papers read xxiii 



The Banquet xxvi 



Delegates to the Centenary Celebration xliii 



Selections from Correspondence hi 



List of other letters and cablegrams cxxxiv 



Acknowledgment cxliii 



/ *Sr<< 





PROCEEDINGS. 



INTRODUCTION. 



Early in January, 1911, the Recording Secretary in letters to the President 

 and the Chairman of the Library Committee, urged the desirability of 

 a fitting observance of the one hundredth anniversary of the foundation of 

 the Academy. He prepared an outline program which, having been elaborated 

 by a preliminary committee consisting of Henry G. Bryant, LL.B., George 

 Vaux, Jr., Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Thomas H. Fenton, M.D., and the 

 Secretary, was approved by the Council, the proposed celebration was authorized, 

 and the President was directed to appoint a Committee of Arrangements of 

 which he should be the Chairman. 



The President appointed a general committee, which, appropriately divided 

 into sub-committees, was charged with the details of management as follows: 



CENTENARY COMMITTEES. 



Honorable Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., President of the Academy, 



Chairman of the General Committee. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Recording Secretary and Librarian of the Academy, 



Secretary of the General Committee. 



Printing and Publications. 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D. William J. Fox 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. Milton J. Greenman, M.D. 



Witmer Stone, A.M. Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Meetings and Addresses. 



Thomas H. Fenton, M.D. Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Frank J. Keeley Edwin G. Conklin, A.M., Ph.D., Sc.D. 



George Vaux, Jr. Thomas L. Montgomery 



James M. Anders, M.D. 



Invitations. 



J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. George McClellan, M.D. 



John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D. G. de Schweinitz, A.M., M.D. 



W. W. Keen, M.D., LL.D. H. Sellers Colton, A.M., Ph.D. 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Ph.D. 

 vii 




viii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Entertainment. 



Robert G. LeConte, M.D. Daniel M. Barringer 



Albert P. Brubaker, M.D. Herbert Fox, M.D. 



Edwin I. Simpson Henry Winsor, M.D. 



Henry Tucker, M.D. Francis X. Dercum, M.D., Ph.D. 



Hon. Charlemagne Tower William D. Winsor 



Roland G. Curtin, M.D. Thomas G. Ashton, M.D. 



Francis E. Bond Walter Horstmann 



Witmer Stone, A.M. Charles Z. Tryon 



Finance. 



Hon. Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 

 George Vaux, Jr. Walter Horstmann 



Edwin S. Dixon Henry G. Bryant, LL.B. 



George S. Morris John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D. 



A formal announcement of the occasion was mailed in January, 1912, to 

 correspondents and scientific institutions throughout the world by the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary, J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. : 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia founded in the year eighteen hundred and twelve 

 for the cultivation of the natural sciences, in March, nineteen hundred and twelve, will have completed 

 one hundred years of active devotion to this purpose. 



For the adequate celebration of its centenary anniversary the Academy will call in convention at its 

 Hall the learned men and institutions of the world its collaborators. 



The Academy has the honor to invite to be present at this event, which will take 



place at Philadelphia on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first 

 of March, nineteen hundred and twelve. 



As will be seen from the letters published in connection with the proceedings, 

 the responses have been most gratifying. Many of these documents are beautiful 

 specimens of illumination and chirography. The appointment of one hundred 

 and forty-seven delegates by corresponding societies and institutions was also 

 a demonstration of the practical interest taken by the scientific world in the 

 occasion. 



Cablegrams and letters of congratulation and appreciation continued to be 

 received after the commemorative meeting had adjourned. 



On the recommendation of the Publication Committee it was decided to 

 issue in connection with the celebration an Index to the complete series of the 

 Proceedings and Journal, a detailed history of the Academy, and a com- 

 memorative quarto volume (the fifteenth of the Journal) to consist of the 

 Proceedings of the Sessions and a collection of adequately illustrated memoirs 

 contributed by members and correspondents. 



The sessions extended over three days: the 19th, 20th, and 21st of March. 

 The first was held on the evening of Tuesday, the 19th, because that was the 

 time of the stated meeting of the Academy, but the 21st was the actual date of 

 the anniversary. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. ix 



The meetings were held, not as usual in the Reading Room, but in the Lecture 

 Hall which afforded more ample accommodation and which was well filled on 

 the occasion of the opening session, the front seats being occupied by delegates. 



On the platform were seated the President, the Mayor of the City, the two 

 Vice-Presidents, the Corresponding and Recording Secretaries, and Sir James 

 Grant, the representative of the Royal Society of Canada. 



The weather Wednesday morning was bright, sparkling, and genial, but 

 that of Thursday was in violent and undesirable contrast, a fall of snow being 

 driven along by a penetrating wind. It was a most gratifying evidence of the 

 earnestness and interest of those in attendance that but little decrease in their 

 number was observable when the meeting was called to order. 



The announcement of the death of Thomas Harrison Montgomery was a 

 pathetic incident of the opening session. As stated in the memorial note pre- 

 ceding his paper Dr. Montgomery had been deeply interested in the arrange- 

 ments for the celebration and was the first one to hand in a contribution to this 

 commemorative volume. It had been arranged that he should read the first 

 paper on Thursday morning, but instead of hearing the voice which many 

 present loved so well, the Chair announced that his funeral would take place 

 the following morning from St. Mary's Church, West Philadelphia. 



The midday luncheons provided on Wednesday and Thursday were thor- 

 oughly enjoyed and furnished the opportunity for social intercourse which was 

 generally taken advantage of. 



A brilliant reception was given as part of the anniversary celebration by the 

 President, Mrs. Dixon, and Miss Dixon at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel on the 

 evening of the 20th. It was attended by upwards of fifteen hundred invited 

 guests, the Philadelphians being manifestly delighted to meet the Academy's 

 correspondents and delegates. A charmingly sociable tone prevailed during 

 the evening and the occasion will long be remembered by those present as a 

 most enjoyable feature of the program. 



The indispensable banquet was also a brilliant success, owing to the dis- 

 cretion and good taste of the Chairman of the Committee on Entertainment, 

 Dr. Robert Grier LeConte, who had the cooperation of Dr. Henry Tucker and 

 Dr. Thomas G. Ashton. The luncheons and the banquet were served in the 

 New Hall, the preparation of which in time for such service was due to the 

 executive ability of the President and the energy of his Secretary, Edwin I. 

 Simpson. The system of lighting produced the effect of a soft diffused illumina- 

 tion as pleasant as daylight. It imparted full value to the floral and other 

 beautiful decorations. 



Thanks to the cooperation of those best able to judge of the value of the 

 work accomplished, the general success of the Centenary Celebration was com- 

 mensurate with the influence exerted by the Academy on the development of 

 the natural sciences during the past one hundred years. 



Edward J. Nolan, 



April 8, 1912. Recording Secretary. 




x PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE SESSIONS. 

 Tuesday, March 19, 1912. 



The meeting was called to order promptly at 8 P. M., the President, the 

 Honorable Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



The Recording Secretary requested the delegates, as the names of the societies 

 and institutions represented by them were called by the Corresponding Secretary, 

 to arise and hand their letters of credential and congratulation to the President 

 without reading. As the exercises of the evening were likely to be lengthy, he 

 asked, if remarks were considered desirable, that they should be brief. Thus 

 advised, as a matter of fact no one spoke, and as much the greater number of 

 the letters had already been delivered by mail, this otherwise tedious part of the 

 program was not unduly prolonged. 



The President, introducing the Honorable Rudolph Blankenburg, the 

 Mayor of the City of Philadelphia, remarked: 



Science never makes such rapid strides as when we are governed by pro- 

 gressive, intelligent men, who appreciate education and the work of original 

 research. We are to be congratulated on having such a man with us tonight and 

 it is my especial privilege to present to you the Honorable Rudolph Blankenburg, 

 Mayor of the City of Philadelphia. 



Mr. Blankenburg spoke as follows : 



THE MAYOR'S ADDRESS. 



Mr. President, Delegates, Ladies and Gentlemen: It is a pleasure for me to 

 appear this evening before a body of scientific men and scientific women, and 

 to be relieved for a little while of the cares of office and especially to be able, in 

 a few words, to welcome you on this auspicious occasion. I am little of a sci- 

 entist myself, but I have always appreciated science and those interested in 

 scientific investigations. If it were not for such institutions as the Academy we 

 would not be nearly as far advanced in learning and civilization as we are. 

 Everything pertaining to the enlightenment of mankind naturally leads to the 

 development of knowledge, of ideals, and to an evolution of truth, a higher char- 

 acter, and higher aims in life. 



From what I learn, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia stands 

 at the head of similar institutions in this country. This is hardly to be wondered 

 at, because we are at the head and front of so many things in America that 

 this is only one small additional token of what Philadelphia does, of what Phila- 

 delphians have done, and of what Philadelphians can do, if they will. The 

 collections within the walls of this beautiful building are among the best to be 

 found in our country. The building itself is conveniently located and easy of 

 access in fact it is so convenient to my house (living, as I do, only half a square, 

 or a stone's throw away) that I have not been within its walls for ten years. 

 I am really almost ashamed to make this confession. If the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences were a hundred or five hundred, or a thousand miles from Philadelphia, 

 I am sure that I should have visited it on numerous occasions. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xi 



In looking over the history of the Academy of Natural Sciences, I learn that it 

 was founded one hundred years ago by a few young, intelligent, and public-spirited 

 men, who met at first in their private homes, and gradually grew in number and 

 interest until The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, from its small 

 origin, erects a proud head to-day. I mention this simply as showing how great 

 things spring from the very smallest causes: I believe this is a scientific maxim. 

 If the few men who organized the Academy could look down upon what has been 

 accomplished in one hundred years, they would certainly feel amply repaid in 

 the thought that their work has been well done. 



Look at the Philadelphia of a hundred years ago. The city itself then had 

 only 53,722 inhabitants. To-day that part of the city which then comprised 

 the whole of Philadelphia has but 89,357 inhabitants; there has hardly been any 

 growth at all. The men who founded this great Academy hardly knew how 

 well they were building. Philadelphia was at that time only a small place; 

 the whole of the city was not much larger in area than the adjoining Fifteenth 

 Ward. Gleaning from the past, should the work of old not be an incentive to 

 people living to-day, whenever the opportunity offers, to build likewise? Many 

 important undertakings had their origin in a small way. Never let us despise 

 small things, my friends, but encourage all those who desire to do something for 

 the progress of the world. It may sometimes seem idle to encourage their 

 ambition; but even a seemingly small effort in laboring for the good of mankind 

 and the welfare of the community should be encouraged. 



Your great institution to-day stands as one of the landmarks of Philadelphia. 

 It is being visited by hundreds and thousands of people every week: and since, 

 through the unceasing efforts and the genius of your President, Dr. Dixon, you 

 have secured at last this great building, one of the finest homes of its kind in 

 this country, with so much accomplished, I am sure the future of this organi- 

 zation is assured. Doctor Dixon tells me that there is a fund to-day which gives 

 you fifty thousand dollars a year for the maintenance of the wonderful collection 

 housed in this building, and -that not one cent of the Academy's capital was 

 touched for the great improvements that have been made within the last few 

 years. 



I do not intend to make a speech. My purpose is to welcome you to 

 welcome you gentlemen and you ladies who come from a distance to the 

 City of Brotherly Love. You know of Philadelphia's hospitality. Everything 

 will be open to you. We shall be glad to take you to the great and renowned 

 places of which only Philadelphia can boast. There may be some among you 

 who have not even seen Independence Hall. If there be any let me know, and 

 I shall be glad to take you there to-morrow morning so that you may be able to 

 say, on your return home, "I have seen Independence Hall: I have visited the 

 Cradle of Liberty." I welcome all of you, ladies and gentlemen, whether from 

 home or abroad, and let this meeting be the forerunner of even greater success 

 for this great institution for all the centuries to come. 




xii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



After announcements by the Secretary the President delivered an historical 



address as follows : 



THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. 



Fellow Members and Guests: This is one of the occasions which stimulate 

 reflection. To-day we must all feel a regret that we cannot inherit the learning 

 of those who have gone before us. So keen an appreciation do I possess of the 

 unselfish devotion of my predecessors to science and to this institution, and so im- 

 pressed am I at the monthly meetings in our Reading Room by their faces looking 

 down upon us from their respective canvases hanging on the walls, that my feel- 

 ings impel me to call upon them in spirit to join me in extending to our guests the 

 heartiest of welcomes and to say that we, the present workers, fully appreciate 

 how much credit is due them for our present success. 



To-day this City of Brotherly Love, with the mother Commonwealth, 

 Pennsylvania, in common with the great union of states, is at peace with all the 

 nations of the globe. This blessed condition did not prevail on the day when 

 our fore-fathers assembled one hundred years ago, to organize an institution for 

 the study and advancement of the Natural Sciences. During the last days of 

 the year 1811, the dispute between the United States and Great Britain and the 

 doubt as to the attitude of France seemed to indicate that the national honor 

 was hurt and that another contest with a European power was at hand. The 

 commerce of the country had suffered. The Committee on Foreign Relations 

 recited the wrongs that the United States had sustained from Great Britain, and 

 declared it to be the sacred duty of Congress to call forth the patriotism and 

 resources of the country. Extensive military measures were recommended. 

 The Pennsylvania Legislature passed acts for enlarging the regiment of artillery 

 and for the organization of the cavalry of the city of Philadelphia. Although 

 war was not declared until June, 1812, in anticipation of the necessities of the 

 situation Congress approved a loan of eleven million dollars, of which one million 

 six hundred and forty-five thousand dollars were raised in Philadelphia. 



Large meetings of people were held all over the city to consider the needs of 

 commercial interests and to pass resolutions for the equipment of privateers and 

 for building up the defences of the city. 



The legislature relieved the tension of its patriotic resolutions by requesting 

 a special committee to examine a machine made by Charles Redhefer, who 

 claimed that it possessed the power of self motion, and naively stated that "if 

 the machine be found to be imperfect the public interest will be promoted by 

 exposing its fallacy." 



In the midst of excitements due to impending war the youth of the city 

 naturally sought the taverns and oyster cellars as meeting places, as indeed there 

 was little in the way of diversion provided for the people of that period. The 

 theater was seldom opened, and the feeling against it was so strong that a peti- 

 tion was presented to the legislature requesting it to abolish forever the exhibition 

 of "Theatricles." Peale's Museum enjoyed great popularity, and here the lusus 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xiii 



natures were in steady demand. The calf with five legs vied for public favor with 

 the child without ears. 



Notwithstanding the preparations for war which were draining the resources 

 of all men the founders of this institution had such faith in the future of the United 

 States of America that they did not hesitate even with the din of martial demon- 

 strations in their ears and the consciousness of an awful, impending struggle with 

 gigantic powers in their minds, to proceed quietly, methodically, and unperturbed 

 to found an association for pure learning which has now become one of the 

 foremost among the scientific institutions of the world. 



The voices that started the vibrations whose echoes still resound in this Hall 

 of Science, though no longer heard, are too numerous to be mentioned on this 

 occasion, when there is so much that is new to be brought out within the short 

 time allotted for this our last assembly in the Academy's first century. 



The Academy was born of the enthusiasm of earnest lovers of science. They 

 had before them a single purpose, the unveiling of some of the laws of nature 

 and the engraving of them on the tablets of the society that they might be studied 

 by men of all nations. To accomplish this great end as the society grew they 

 realized the necessity of explorations, of collections, of laboratories, of a library, 

 and of reciprocity with bodies having similar aims. 



In the beginning of the nineteenth century a few young men in this city 

 spent their spare time in studying natural history. They soon learned it was to 

 their mutual interest to compare their notes. In the year 1812 John Speakman 

 and Jacob Gilliams agreed that it would be well to hold regular meetings; accord- 

 ingly they, with Dr. Gerard Troost, Nicholas S. Parmentier, Dr. Camillus 

 Macmahon Mann, and John Shinn, Jr., met at the home of one of their members 

 on the northwest corner of Market and 2d Sts., on January 25, 1812. Thomas 

 Say was almost immediately added to their number. The minutes of this 

 meeting set forth that their object would be the rational disposition of 

 otherwise leisure moments. Their next assembly was held at a public house 

 on Market Street near Franklin Place on the 21st day of March, 1812, at which 

 time Dr. Samuel Jackson, of the University of Pennsylvania, is said to have 

 suggested the title of The Academy of Natural Sciences. The collection of the 

 society at this time was represented by a few common insects, a few corals and 

 shells, a dried toad fish, and a stuffed monkey. 



Thus established, the Academy, with its constantly increasing resources, 

 has been for one hundred years administered for the benefit of all students of 

 natural history. 



Masters of science have come from all parts of the world to consult the great 

 zoological, botanical, geological, and ethnological collections which the accumu- 

 lated labors of our members, during a century of activity, have brought together 

 in the museum. 



Writers and students of all grades have come to consult the great natural 

 history library which the liberality of our members and the worldwide exchange 

 of our publications have enabled us to place on the shelves. 




xiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Pupils from schools have come under the guidance of their teachers to 

 study and profit by the exhibits displayed in our public museum halls, while 

 our specialists have delivered courses of popular lectures on the natural sciences 

 under the auspices of the Academy and the Ludwick Institute. 



In every way within its power the Academy has promoted for a century the 

 study of the natural sciences, advanced or elementary, pure or applied. 



The one hundredth anniversary is a particularly happy birthday because 

 our precious natural history library, unexcelled in America, and our priceless 

 collections of mammals, birds, reptiles, fishes, shells, insects, plants, ethnological 

 and geological specimens, unsurpassed in several of the departments and in all of 

 them rich in the type specimens of the early naturalists of America, having been 

 for almost one hundred years exposed to the danger of damage or destruction 

 by fire are now, with the intelligent cooperation of the Commonwealth of 

 Pennsylvania, placed in a thoroughly fireproof building. 



The society has, however, never received state or city financial aid for 

 maintenance, but has depended entirely upon the liberality of intelligent 

 people, mainly of Philadelphia, for the necessary funds to purchase land for 

 our buildings, to publish the results of the scientific researches of our members, 

 to fit out expeditions, and of late years to pay meager salaries to the members of 

 the scientific staff. 



While we have thus built up world-renowned study collections it has been 

 impossible to develop the popular exhibits that sister institutions, rich in 

 state and municipal appropriations, have been enabled to install. 



We have, however, kept our collections systematically arranged and have, 

 during the last decade, had the satisfaction of seeing all the historical types and 

 study series placed in metal cases, impervious to light, dust or moth, thus insuring 

 them the longest possible life. 



Our corresponding membership now numbers about two hundred, composed 

 only of the greatest scientists of the period. 



Biographical sketches of our officers and scientific workers who carried us 

 through the last one hundred years are recorded in our publications and as we 

 have so little time before us they can only be casually alluded to in this brief 

 resume" of the Academy's history. We are, however, proud of the escutcheon 

 upon which the history of their lives is engraved. 



Members of this Academy have taken a very prominent part in explorations. 

 Thomas Say was a member of Long's Expedition to the Rocky Mountains 

 in 1819 and 1820 and was one of the first scientific men to become personally 

 acquainted with the vast natural history resources of the great West. 



Nuttall and Townsend, thirty years after the Lewis and Clark Expedition, 

 crossed the continent to the mouth of the Columbia River, and extended their 

 explorations to the Hawaiian Islands, returning around the Horn. They brought 

 home rarities of animal and plant life, many of which were unknown to science. 

 These collections were placed in the Academy's museum, then the chief repositorj 

 for natural history specimens in America, and here they are still preserved. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xv 



When the United States government was organizing the famous Wilkes 

 Expedition of 1838, the Academy was requested to nominate its scientific staff 

 and two of its members eventually accompanied the party. 



In the year 1850 one of our members, Edward Harris, financed and accom- 

 panied the great Audubon expedition up the Missouri River. Through his 

 modesty, we were prevented at the time from making known the important part 

 that he took in this expedition. Other members made possible the work of 

 DuChaillu in equatorial Africa. 



We provided Dr. Kane with his outfit for systematic collecting in 1853, 

 when he made his Arctic exploration. To-day we have many specimens obtained 

 by him. Specially interesting is the gigantic stuffed polar bear which stands in 

 interesting contrast to the modern mounted specimen brought here by the 

 Peary Relief Expedition. 



The Hayes exploration of the far north a few years later was also aided and 

 endorsed by the Academy. 



Rear Admiral Peary, discouraged by his futile attempts to interest other 

 institutions and governments in his proposed voyage of exploration to the north, 

 came to us with his proposition. He was generously received and a committee 

 was appointed to arrange the expedition, which sailed on June 6, 1891 from 

 Brooklyn, under the auspices of the Academy, to explore the Arctic regions. 

 On January 26, 1892, a relief party was organized under the command of Pro- 

 fessor Heilprin. On September 24, 1892, it returned with the explorers, sailing 

 up the Delaware River on the now historic vessel " Kite." 



Peary did not reach the highest latitude on his first expedition. His aim was 

 accomplished in showing that Greenland was an island by tracing its northern- 

 most line. It was during his next trip, which was not under the auspices of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, that he made his northernmost record previous to 

 his polar dash. 



If the Academy had not taken an interest in Peary when he was about dis- 

 couraged, the chances are he would never have planted the American flag at the 

 north pole. 



Dr. Hayden, a member of the Academy, when conducting the United States 

 Geological Survey in the west, made up his scientific parties largely from our 

 membership. The setting apart of the great national Yellowstone Park resulted 

 from his numerous explorations. Every three years this institution bestows 

 upon a distinguished geologist the Hayden Gold Medal, an award which was 

 founded by Dr. Hayden's widow. 



The Pennsylvania Geological Surveys were also conducted by members of 

 Academy: Rogers and Lesley. 



Our colleagues, Leidy and Cope, were the first to describe the extinct ani- 

 mals from the wonderful deposits of the western states. 



I may mention among the more recent expeditions those of Professor Heil- 

 prin to Yucatan and Mexico in 1890; Harrison and Hiller to Sumatra; Samuel 




xvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



N. Rhoads to British Columbia, the Colorado River, and Ecuador; Donald- 

 son Smith to Somaliland and Lake Rudolph; and Francis E. Bond to Vene- 

 zuela, from all of which we have received rich returns. 



The publications of the Academy had early a world-wide reputation. For 

 many years they furnished the only adequate means through which American 

 scientists reached the naturalists of the world. Contributions of papers came 

 from ail parts of America. To-day our various publications are exchanged with 

 all the nations of the civilized world. It may be interesting to state here the 

 fact that when the famous Pacific railroad surveys were made, the United 

 States government published descriptions of all the new species it obtained 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Passing rapidly over the more important departments of our museum, we 

 find among mammals a number of the specimens obtained by Townsend in the 

 far West, made known to science in the Journal by our correspondents Audubon 

 and Bachman; the Harrison Allen collection of bats, the Rhoads collection of 

 North American mammals, and the splendid collection of anthropoid apes pre- 

 sented by Dr. Thomas Biddle. 



The collection of birds will ever stand as a memorial to two of our members : 

 Thomas B. Wilson and John Cassin. To Dr. Wilson's liberality we owe the 

 acquirement of the famous Rivoli collection, the Gould collection, and many 

 others. His entire gift, comprising some 25,000 specimens, was regarded in 

 1857 as the finest collection in the world. Cassin spent his life in the study of 

 this material and his researches published in the Proceedings made the 

 Academy famous as an ornithological center the world over, while he himself 

 stood preeminent among the ornithologists of America. 



The part that the Academy played in the development of ornithology in 

 America may be appreciated by the mere mention of those who worked within 

 its walls or published the results of their researches in the Proceedings: Nuttall, 

 Bonaparte, Townsend, Gambel, Heerman, Harris, and Woodhouse, among our 

 members, and Baird, Lawrence, and Coues, among our correspondents. 



In our vast series of reptiles, we find the material collected and studied by 

 Hallowell, Cope, and Brown names inseparable from the history of herpetology 

 in America. 



In the study of fishes at the Academy the names of Bonaparte and Cope, 

 already mentioned in other connections, stand forth prominently and their 

 collections are still carefully preserved. Charles LeSueur, one of our earliest 

 members, also attained fame as an ichthyologist, while of late years several of 

 those who studied at the Academy have become famous in the service of the 

 Unites States Fish Commission notably, the late John Adam Ryder. 



The Academy has from its foundation taken a prominent part in the study of 

 the mollusca and has accumulated a collection probably second to none. A 

 series of investigators, eminent in their special field, have made the society one of 

 the world centers in this department of science. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xvii 



Almost a century ago Thomas Say blazed the trail for conchologists, 

 while Dr. Isaac Lea and Timothy Abbott Conrad were his successors. Lea's 

 work, largely published by the Academy, is the basis of all later syste- 

 matic study of fresh water mussels, while to Conrad we owe the founda- 

 tion of American tertiary geology and paleontology, his work in this line 

 overshadowing that on the living mollusca. Gabb was another famous 

 worker in this field, while to George W. Tryon, Jr., we owe the conception 

 of the Manual of Conchology, begun by him in 1878 and continued by the 

 Academy after his death in 1888. Very few works have led to so many reforms 

 in classification or have had such a broad influence as this. Dr. Joseph Leidy, who 

 may be termed the Cuvier of America, should be mentioned in this connection 

 because of his fine contribution to Binney's Terrestrial Air-breathing Mollusks 

 of the United States, published in 1851. This was the first American work on 

 the morphology of the soft parts of the mollusks. 



Thomas Say, already referred to as a pioneer conchologist, is also known as 

 the father of American entomology. Owing to his energy, the Academy's col- 

 lection in this department was begun a collection which by steady growth has 

 reached a total of a million specimens and has become of world-wide renown. 

 The long list of entomologists who have contributed to its development, contains 

 the names of most of those whose activities constitute the earlier history of 

 entomology in America. 



Titian R. Peale, Wilson, LeConte, Horn, McCook, Cresson, Martindale, and 

 others have made our entomological department one of the most important in 

 America. The Cresson collection of hymenoptera has made the Academy the 

 greatest in America in this particular branch. The Bassett collection of galls 

 and gall insects is the most comprehensive ever brought together. 



In palaeontology the names of Leidy and Cope are preeminent. The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, published by Dr. Leidy as 

 the seventh volume of the Journal, is a classic. Students of paleontology still 

 come to consult the types of his descriptions, which are preserved in our collection. 



Professor Cope's part in the development of American paleontology is too 

 well known to require detailed mention and was carried on side by side with his 

 studies of reptiles and fishes, in which his reputation was equally great. Even 

 on his death-bed he placed the finishing touches to his report on the Pleistocene 

 remains discovered at Port Kennedy, Pennsylvania, a paper which attracted the 

 attention of the paleontological world and which appeared in the Journal of the 

 Academy soon after his death. 



In botanical research the Academy has always held an important place and 

 its herbarium, now numbering some 900,000 specimens, contains the types of 

 such pioneers as Nuttall, Pursh, Muhlenberg, and deSchweinitz, besides compre- 

 hensive collections from all parts of the globe. Among those whose researches 

 have been carried on at the Academy may be mentioned in addition to the above, 

 Durand, Charles E. Smith, Meehan, and Redfield. 



1* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA., VOL. XV. 




xviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



In anthropology the works of Morton and later of Harrison Allen are famous. 

 The splendid collection of human crania brought together by the former is 

 historic. Archeological and ethnological collections comprise the material 

 gathered by Samuel Stehman Haldeman in North America and in the land 

 of the Aztecs, Mayas, and Incas. 



There are also the Wm. S. Vaux collection rich in specimens of the neolithic 

 age of Europe, the Robt. H. Lamborn collection and the Clarence B. Moore 

 collection. 



Mr. Moore's collection embodies the results of more than twenty years' 

 exploration in the southern United States and consists of thousands of speci- 

 mens of the vanished art industries of our southern aborigines now saved for 

 all time in the museum and in the fine series of reports published in the Journal. 



We have extensive mineral collections, foremost among which is that of Wil- 

 liam S. Vaux, noted for the beauty of its specimens and the completeness of 

 the series. 



There are the famous Febiger collection of diatoms, the Chapman study 

 series of marine animals, and others which lack of time forces me to pass over. 



So too there are many other former members of the Academy who by their 

 scientific attainments or their loyal and generous support have helped to build 

 up the institution, while among the living members are men who are, by their 

 work and devotion, fully as deserving of notice as those who have gone before. 



Helmholtz, in 1862, said, " In fact men of science form, as it were, an organized 

 army, laboring on behalf of the whole nation, and generally under its direction 

 and at its expense, to augment the stock of such knowledge as may serve to 

 promote industrial enterprise, to increase wealth, to adorn life, to improve 

 political and social relations, and to further the moral development of individual 

 citizens. After the immediate practical results of their work we forbear to 

 inquire; that we leave to the uninstructed. We are convinced that whatever 

 contributes to the knowledge of the forces of nature or the powers of the human 

 mind is worth cherishing, and may, in its own due time, bear practical fruits, 

 very often where we should least have expected it." 



It has been truly said that the distinctive feature of pure science is that "it 

 is not remunerative; the practical rewards and returns are not the immediate 

 ends in view." The work of Tyndall and Pasteur, however, on fermentation, 

 pursued in the beginning purely because of its abstract scientific interest, later 

 came to have enormous economic importance and led to the scientific investi- 

 gations that have within recent years become of incalculable value to mankind. 



The knowledge gathered by the abstract naturalist and the tabulation of 

 scientific data concerning all forms of animal and vegetable life have a very close 

 and direct relation to public health and preventive medicine. A long list 

 of diseases might be compiled in which insects are directly responsible for 

 the transmission of the bacterium or parasite life causing disease. It is now 

 a matter of almost universal knowledge that malarial fever is transmitted from 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xix 



man to man by means of the Anopheles mosquito, that the yellow fever virus 

 can only be transmitted through the Stegomyia calopus, that the bubonic plague 

 may be carried from man to man or from rat to man by means of the rat 

 flea (Pulex cheopis), that the Trypanosoma gambiense of African sleeping sickness 

 can be communicated only by means of the tsetse-fly, that the organism causing 

 human filariasis is transmitted by the Culex fatigans and certain species of 

 Anopheles, and evidence is gradually accumulating that the bacterium of leprosy is 

 transmitted through the bed-bug, Cimex lectularius. A knowledge of the natural 

 history of these insects was absolutely essential for the scientific study of the dis- 

 eases with which they are so closely associated and public health work has only been 

 effective in eradicating the disorders in proportion to the efforts of the sanitarian 

 directed toward their destruction and for the protection of the individual. The 

 entomologist, the zoologist, and the bacteriologist are each required to contribute 

 their share in the research that means so much to public health and to mankind. 

 If much has already been accomplished, still greater are the fields open for 

 scientific investigation. 



With the lower forms of animal life parasitic to man and known to cause 

 disease, the connecting link, the intermediate host, the full life history are missing 

 in many instances where it would seem that the most fertile field for the scientist 

 has not yet been invaded. A very large province lies open for those who under- 

 take a careful study of the relation between the vermes and the human being. 

 Much indeed has been learned about parasites inhabiting the intestinal canal, 

 but the parasitologist has not yet concluded the final analysis of the life history 

 of many of these forms. 



The work of the Academy has been so distinctly pure science that the lay 

 public have not until recently appreciated the great practical relationship it has 

 to health and economics. The description of the various species, their life 

 history, their geographical range, have enabled those working in applied sciences 

 to conduct the already successful war against the enemies of man, of the lower 

 animals, and of plant life. 



Let it be remembered that in 1793 half the population of Philadelphia either 

 died from yellow fever, or voluntarily exiled themselves to escape from the 

 scourge, that all the southern tier of states were kept in a state of constant 

 terror every summer for fear of its invasion, causing a loss of millions to the 

 commerce of the country, and then recall the fact that through entomological 

 and medical cooperation this disease was practically eliminated from Cuba, its 

 breeding place for ages, and that in 1905, a violent epidemic of the same plague 

 was actually checked in New Orleans by the application of the knowledge gleaned 

 by the medical department of our army in the more southern field. 



That mysterious blight to human life and energy known as malaria, to which, 

 as much as to the fire and sword of northern barbarians Greece and Rome owed 

 their downfall, has been traced to its entomological source so that these two 

 devastating diseases have ceased to be a menace to civilized communities, 




xx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



allowing that great work, the construction of the Panama canal, heretofore 

 impossible owing to their prevalence, to go on uninterruptedly under conditions 

 of unparalleled health. The sacrifice of 5,000 American troops during the 

 Spanish-American war, was finally found to have been due to the transmission 

 of Bacillus typhosus by the common house fly, and this knowledge has been so 

 judiciously applied by our army surgeons that a recent considerable mobilization 

 of our soldiers was entirely exempt from that disease, conveying some faint con- 

 ception of the immense debt that humanity owes to the patient workers in the 

 field of pure science. 



Economic entomology, based upon abstract work, shows an annual money 

 loss in the United States of North America occasioned by insects amounting to 

 $1,272,000,000. 



The congratulatory letters, with the autographs of our foreign co-workers, 

 received from the great institutions of the world relating to this our one hun- 

 dredth birthday, cannot be read owing to a want of time, but will be recorded 

 in our Commemorative Volume. 



Before closing I have a pleasant duty to perform on behalf of the Building 

 Committee. At the request of those entrusted with planning and erecting the 

 improvements made possible by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and 

 as Chairman of the Committee, I hand over to the corporate body, under the 

 title of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, this building com- 

 pleted for its use, comprising fireproof stacks for its library, a reading room, 

 lecture hall, and work rooms. 



In the rhythmic language of another I reverently invoke the blessings of the 

 God of Nature upon this temple of the Natural Sciences. 



Great God of nature, let these halls 



The hidden things of earth make plain ; 

 Let knowledge trumpet forth her calls, 



And wisdom speak, but not in vain. 



Help us to read with humble mind 



Thy larger scriptures day by day 

 True bread of life! O be thou kind, 



If, erring, we should go astray. 



For deep resounding unto deep, 



Declares the wonders of thy plan ; 

 Life struggling from its crystal sleep 



Finds glorious goal at last in man. 



The mysteries of the eternal laws 



Are but the shadows of thy might. 

 God, ruling all in final cause, 



Enshrine the world in love and light! 



Harvey Matiland Watls. 



It was explained that the routine of a stated meeting would then go on, in 

 the belief that an illustration of the formula by means of which the Academy had 

 transacted its business as a society for one hundred years would be of interest 

 to those familiar with the results which had made the celebration worth while. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxi 



At the call of the Chair the Recording Secretary read the minutes of the last 

 meeting and the minute of the first Recording Secretary, Dr. Camillas Alac- 

 mahon Mann, defining the date of foundation as follows: 



Year of the United States the 37th. 



Saturday, March 21, 1812. 

 In Committee agreed: The year of the institution shall commence at the 

 present natural evolution: the spring equinox, 21st of March and the year shall 

 be named according to the era of the United States of America in the principal 

 city of which we assemble. 



Additions to the museum and library were announced. 



The Corresponding Secretary reported on letters received since the last 

 meeting. 



The Publication Committee, in conjunction with the Centenary Sub-com- 

 mittee on Printing and Publication, reported the titles of papers presented for 

 consideration and also announced the details of works to be issued in connection 

 with the celebration. 



The Chair announced the death this morning of Thomas Harrison Mont- 

 gomery, Jr., Ph.D. 1 



Under the head of "verbal communications" the Recording Secretary gave 

 some "Reminiscences" of his fifty years' connection with the Academy as Assist- 

 ant Librarian, Librarian, and Recording Secretary, his first list of accessions to 

 the library being dated February 4, 1862. 



It had been his intention to glance rapidly at a few of the interesting char- 

 acters in the first half century of the Academy's history: such men as Maclure, 

 Say, Troost, Lesueur, Morton, Correa da Serra, Bonaparte, and Keating, but 

 the time at his disposal confined him to some of those he had personally known 

 since 18G2. 



It was a cause of keenest regret that he had not recorded the recollections 

 of a few of the contemporaries of the founders who still survived when he entered 

 on the scene, but it could be readily believed that in the boy's most sanguine 

 moments he had never entertained the thought that fifty years later, on the 

 occasion of the Academy's Centenary, he would be called on to deplore his lack of 

 foresight before such an audience. 



He had seen George Ord, the biographer of Alexander Wilson and one of the 

 ex-presidents, three or four times; Jacob Peirce, elected a member in 1813, two 

 years before Ord; Isaac Hays, who had practically kept the early Journal alive 

 by his energy, tact, and zeal; Titian R. Peale, the intimate friend of Say and 

 Maclure, all cordially willing to talk of the early days. 



Dr. Nolan then spoke of the beginning of his work as an untrained assistant 

 in the library and the unvarying kindness and consideration he had experienced 

 from all the men met with at the time but especially from his dear chief, J. 

 Dickinson Sergeant, and his beloved future preceptor, Joseph Leidy. 



1 See note in advance of memoir. 




xxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



It was an extraordinary epoch in the history of the Academy, the beginning 

 of its second half century, and the youth was associated with a stimulating group 

 of men, including Leidy, Cope, Conrad, Try on, Stewardson, Lea, Slack, Rand, 

 Warner, Vaux, Cassin, Heerman, Meigs, Gabb, and Wilson, all men of marked 

 individuality, many of whom had made permanent records as leaders of science 

 in America. 



Continuing, Dr. Nolan gave his impressions of some of his contemporaries 

 of later date: Allen, Horn, LeConte, Meehan, Warner, Hawkins, Ruschenberger, 

 Redfield, Ryder, McCook, Heilprin, Chapman, Isaac Jones Wistar, and Arthur 

 Erwin Brown. He adopted a more intimate tone than would be desirable in a 

 printed record in the belief that such confidences would not be objected to by 

 his auditors, many of whom were familiar with the work of the men whom he 

 was describing. 2 



In the one hundred years of the Academy's history four men had stood out 

 prominently, with, of course, many associates, as dominant in its material and 

 intellectual advancement. These were Thomas Say, Samuel George Morton, 

 Joseph Leidy, and the present chief executive. The work of Say, Morton, and 

 Leidy formed part of the history of the Academy, and if an impression were 

 desired of the accomplishments of Samuel Gibson Dixon his auditors had but 

 to look around them. 



Closing his recollections the Secretary was distressed to remember the names 

 of the many dear friends whom, for lack of time, he was forced to leave in the 

 undesirable class "and others." 



In conclusion he remarked: 



Those whom I knew during the first years of association with the Academy 

 are nearly all dead. The old building, if it still existed, would be full of ghosts, 

 and even in the present halls, in the dusk of the winter days, dear shades encounter 

 me in the alcoves and passage ways and remind me of the time when I too shall 

 be a recollection and a tradition. 



But in the meantime it is with a feeling of profound gratitude that I bear 

 testimony to the kindly patience and sustaining encouragement of those who are 

 still with me and who relieve the daily task almost entirely of stress and strain. 



For obvious reasons I cannot deal in personalities in the case of my living 

 contemporaries, but I am at liberty to say that they are worthily taking the 

 place of those who have labored so loyally for the advancement of the Academy 

 and who, we are not forbidden by the highest reason to hope, are now rejoicing 

 in this splendid commemoration of their labors. Had they lived when men 

 cherished the same truths under different formulae their motto, as I have said 

 elsewhere, would have been, Ad majorem Dei gloriam. 



May the men who come after us be as zealous and as disinterested in the 

 development of truth as were those whom I have been so ineffectively remem- 

 bering tonight, so that when the second Centenary is celebrated it also may be 



2 Much of this information and more of the same character will be found in Dr. Nolan's History of the 

 Academy, to be published in connection with the Centenary Celebration. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxiii 



the subject of congratulation from a like gathering of kindly and appreciative 

 friends. 



Nominations for membership were read, the elections of those formerly pro- 

 posed being deferred until the following month. 



The rough minutes were then read for criticism and approval as had been 

 the custom for nearly one hundred years, the secretary explaining that he had 

 complied with the directions of Dr. Mann and had dated the record as having 

 been made in the 137th year of the United States. 



No corrections being suggested, the minutes were adopted as read and the 

 meeting adjourned until the following morning at 10 o'clock. 



Wednesday Morning, March 20. 



The hall was filled with delegates, members, and visitors, when the President 

 dropped the gavel at 10 o'clock. The following papers, nearly all of which were 

 resumes of communications which will form a portion of the second section of 

 this volume, were then read: 



Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D., Vice-President of the Academy and 

 Professor of Biology in the University of Princeton: 



Experimental Studies of Nuclear and Cell Division.* 3 

 Carlotta J. Maury, Ph.D., Lecturer on Paleontology in Barnard College, 

 Columbia University: 



A Contribution to the Paleontology of Trinidad.* 

 William J. Holland, Sc.D., LL.D., Director of the Carnegie Museum, 

 Pittsburgh: 



David Alter, the first Discoverer of Spectrum Analysis, with exhibition of 

 the Prism used by him.* 

 John William Harshberger, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Botany in the 

 University of Pennsylvania: 



The Vegetation of the Banana Holes of Florida.* 

 Frederick William True, M.S., LL.D., Assistant Secretary of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution: 



A New Species of Delphinodon.* 

 Henry Herbert Donaldson, Sc.D., Ph.D., Professor of Neurology in the 

 Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology. 



The History and Zoological Position of the Albino Rat.* 

 Edward Browning Meigs, M.D., Fellow in Physiology in the Wistar 

 Institute of Anatomy and Biology : 

 The Ash of Smooth Muscle. 4 



3 An asterisk after the title of the paper indicates that an abstract has been published in advance in 

 the Proceedings of the Academy, LXIV, 1912. 



4 The entire article is in The Journal of Biological Chemistry, May, 1912. This paper was prepared 

 in association with Leon Alonzo Ryan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Chemistry and Toxicology in the 

 University of Pennsylvania. 




xxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Marshall Avery Howe, Ph.D., Curator of the Museum of the New York 

 Botanical Garden: 



Reef-building and Land-forming Seaweeds, illustrated by views and 

 specimens.* 



At the conclusion of Dr. Howe's paper the audience adjourned to the 

 New Hall the old library hall transformed where a liberal lunch was 

 enjoyed. 



The meeting reassembled at 2 :30 P. M., when Benjamin Smith Lyman, former 

 Chief Geologist of the Empire of Japan, read a paper entitled "Natural History 

 Morality." B 



It was followed by : 



Jacques Loeb, M.D., Sc.D., of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Re- 

 search : 



Experiments on Adaptation of Animals to Higher Temperatures. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Curator of Entomology in The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Professor of Entomology in the Pennsylvania 

 Horticultural Society: 



Mimicry in Butterflies.* 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D., Professor of Natural History in Swarthmore 

 College : 



The Faunal Divisions of Eastern North America in Relation to Vegetation.* 

 T. Wayland Vaughan, Ph.D., of the United States Geological Survey: 



Rate of Growth of Stony Corals. 

 Henry Augustus Pilsbry, Sc.D., Curator of Mollusca in The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



On the Tropical Element in the Molluscan Fauna of Florida.* 

 The session closed with illustrations by means of a collection of superb lantern 

 views, of methods of photographing wild birds, by William L. Baily. 



Thursday, March 21. 



The session was called to order by the President. The place assigned on the 

 program to the late Dr. Montgomery was taken by Edwin J. Houston, Ph.D., 

 Professor of Physics in the Central High School of Philadelphia, who made 

 an interesting communication on "How the Natural Sciences can be made 

 Attractive to the Young." * 



The following papers were then read: 



James A. G. Rehn, Assistant in Entomology in The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Orthopteran Inhabitants of the Sonoran Creosote Bush.* 



Merkel H. Jacobs, Ph.D., of the Wistar Institute of Anatomy and 

 Biology: 



Physiological Characters of Species.* 



6 Proceedings of the Academy, LXIV, March, 1912. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxv 



Henry Fairfield Osborn, LL.D., Sc*D., Research Professor of Zoology in 

 Columbia College, Curator Emeritus of the Department of Vertebrate Paleon- 

 tology in the American Museum of Natural History: 



Tetraplasy, or Law of the Four Inseparable Factors of Evolution.* 

 George Howard Parker, Sc.D., Professor of Zoology in Harvard University : 

 Sensory Appropriation as illustrated by the Organs of Taste in Verte- 

 brates.* 

 John Muirhead Macfarlane, Sc.D., Professor of Botany in the Uni- 

 versity of Pennsylvania: 



The Relation of Protoplasm to its Environment.* 

 William Healy Dall, A.M., Sc.D., Honorary Curator of Mollusca in the 

 United States National Museum: 



Mollusk Fauna of Northwest America. 

 After luncheon Henry Grier Bryant, LL.B., President of the Geographical 

 Society of Philadelphia, read a paper on Governmental Agencies in the Advance- 

 ment of Geographical Knowledge in the United States, illustrated by maps and 

 charts.* 



The scientific sessions closed with a well-illustrated lecture by Witmer 

 Stone, A.M., the Curator of Ornithology in The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, on the Fauna and Flora of the New Jersey Pine Barrens.* 



Announcing the adjournment the President remarked: 



On behalf of the Members of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 I assure you that we all appreciate the disadvantages under which specialists 

 labor who leave their homes to attend a general scientific meeting where they 

 will probably hear only a few papers on the particular subject in which they are 

 interested. We therefore regard it as a high compliment to the Academy that 

 after having contributed your communications to the program, we have received 

 from you the moral support and encouragement of your presence during the 

 whole period of the sessions. This is greatly appreciated by the members of 

 our institution. 



And now adjourning for the last time in the present century we will visit the 

 Museum, and the microscopic exhibit in the Reading Room. Some of our 

 members will join with the delegates from sister institutions tonight in welcoming 

 the second century of the Academy's existence. 



The rest of the afternoon was devoted to the examination of one hundred and 

 thirty-two microscopes displayed in the Reading Room, and a selection from the 

 Academy's superb collection of butterflies arranged on the gallery surrounding 

 the New Hall. 




xxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



THE BANQUET. 



The actual anniversary of the birthday of the Academy was celebrated 

 by a banquet in the evening, when one hundred and sixty delegates, members, 

 and guests, assembled in the New Hall, which was beautifully decorated for 

 the occasion. The tables were arranged in a long rectangle, the center of which 

 was filled by a collection of palms, ferns, and flowering plants. The guests 

 arranged themselves in friendly groups and the Chair was taken by the President, 

 Dr. Dixon. On his right were placed the Hon. Rudolph Blankenburg, Mayor 

 of Philadelphia; Hon. John Cadwalader, Vice-President of the Academy; Mons. 

 Jean de Pulligny, Director of the Commission of French Engineers to the United 

 States; Charles Custis Harrison, LL.D., late Provost of the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania; William J. Holland, Sc.D., LL.D., Director of the Carnegie Museum, 

 Pittsburgh; Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Recording Secretary and Librarian of the 

 Academy; and Walter Horstmann. On the left were seated Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., Vice-President of the Academy and Professor of Biology in Princeton 

 University; Henry Fairfield Osborn, LL.D., Sc.D., President of the American 

 Museum of Natural History; J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., Corresponding Secretary 

 of the Academy and Assistant Professor of Zoology in the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania; Theodore N. Gill, A.M., M.D., LL.D., Professor of Zoology in George 

 Washington University; Henry G. Bryant, LL.B., President of the Geographical 

 Society of Philadelphia; and Edwin S. Dixon. 



Dr. Conklin in his capacity as Toastmaster, remarked : 



Gentlemen: We have come to the last and crowning event in this Centenary 

 Celebration of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Anniversaries 

 mark something more than mere length of life tombstones do that; anniversaries 

 mark progress. They are milestones, rather than tombstones; and to-night we 

 pass one great, one major milestone in the history of this institution. 



It is not always easy to distinguish between milestones and tombstones. 

 You know the story of the old lady, who, visiting friends in Cambridge, found 

 a stone by the roadside inscribed " 1 M. from Boston." Reading it with emotion 

 "I'm from Boston" she remarked "how simple, how sufficient!" 



But we are not now on the subject of tombstones. We are passing one of 

 the milestones, as I have said one of the major milestones. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia has many distinguishing 

 characteristics. One of them is the fact that it was not founded by Benjamin 

 Franklin; but I think it is more than probable that some good and ingenious, if 

 not ingenuous, phylogenist might be able to trace certain of its splendid charac- 

 teristics back to that great founder. At least, we may say that we are, in a 

 way, related to the American Philosophical Society, our elder sister, which was 

 the product of the fertile brain of the philosopher and statesman. 



The title of this institution has always impressed me as being a particularly 

 modest one: The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. We have evi- 

 dence here to-night, and have had throughout this whole celebration, of the 

 fact that The Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia is an Academy that 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxvii 



is known throughout the world. I was amused, a few years ago, to see in Switzer- 

 land the title of a certain hotel, U Hotel de I 'Universe et de Geneve. The title of 

 this Academy might, from this time forth, be, "The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of the World and of Philadelphia." 



Some of you who have not been here very frequently have been amazed, I 

 am sure, as I have been, at the transformation that has taken place. Those of 

 you who met in the old library in the days not very far in the past will fail to 

 identify that hall with this bower of blossoms. In truth the Academy has had 

 a new birth within a few years past; or, speaking biologically, I might say that 

 it has undergone a complete metamorphosis. It has passed from the tadpole 

 stage into that of an imago. This metamorphosis has come about through the 

 good management, wise foresight, skilful care, of one man, he who sits on my 

 right, the Commissioner of Health of Pennsylvania, the President of the Academy, 

 Dr. Samuel Gibson Dixon. That for which so many in the Academy have 

 longed and labored has at last come. It came in the form of a good, substan- 

 tial fireproof building. It is said of one of the Emperors of Rome that he found 

 that city brick and left it marble. It can be said that Dr. Dixon found the 

 Academy serpentine and left it reinforced concrete. 



It is not my function, however, to make an address. My duty is a 

 very minor one: I have merely to call on those who shall instruct and entertain 

 you. I do not say that I am to "introduce" those who are to give this pleasure 

 for I should not care to introduce those who are better known than myself. 

 You may have heard the story of how President Stanley Hall, of Clark University, 

 arrived on the evening train at a town, just before the hour at which he was to 

 give a lecture, and was met at the station by one of the committee. He was 

 taken in a carriage to the lecture hall, and at once went on the platform. The 

 man who had brought him from the carriage walked to the front and said, 

 "Ladies and Gentlemen: I have the great pleasure and honor of introducing to 

 you to-night a man whose name is a household word, one who is known from the 

 Atlantic to the Pacific and from the Canadian border to the Gulf of Mexico a 

 man whose name, as I have said, is a household word. I cannot think of the 

 name at this moment, but he is the President of that very well-known university, 

 a university that has been heard of all over the world, not merely in this country, 

 but in Europe, an institution that everybody knows. It is so well known that 

 I need not mention the name. The name of that university is . Well, in 

 truth, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know the name of the university; but, as a 

 matter of fact, on the way from the station up here, I found that this gentleman 

 was a very delightful fellow, and I introduce him." 



Now it is that way frequently, I think, with introductions, so that I shall 

 merely call on those who are to speak. 



During the latter part of last week, I received a telegram from the President 

 of the Academy. It was reported to me over the telephone from the telegraph 

 office, and the message came to me that the President had appointed me Post- 




xxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



master. That sounded pretty well, and I inquired at what place I had been 

 appointed the Postmaster. I wanted to know that, and also what the salary 

 was; and then I learned (I must confess, with a good deal of disappointment) 

 that I was not a Postmaster after all, but only a Toastmaster. Some who agreed 

 to speak have backed out. Still, there is plenty of talent here; and I am glad 

 that we have with us to-night His Honor, Mayor Rudolph Blankenburg, of our 

 goodly city of Philadelphia. 



Mayor Blankenburg: 



Mr. President, Members of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and 

 Guests: I do not know what you have done that I should be inflicted upon you to- 

 night. I came here confident that I would not be called upon to speak on this aus- 

 picious occasion. One of the prerogatives of the office of Mayor of Philadelphia is 

 an invitation to every banquet that takes place; the penalty, almost invariably, 

 that he must earn his "meal ticket" by a speech. If I only had the capacity, 

 I could eat enough during the four years of my term to last me for the rest of 

 my life should I live to be a hundred, but unfortunately, I have not that capacity. 



A feeling of awe overcomes me when I look into the faces of learned and 

 scientific men because they are so far beyond my ken that a sense of profound 

 humility overcomes me in their presence. This sensation of insignificance has 

 been materially dispelled this evening as I look at the magnificent dining room 

 presided over by Dr. Dixon. We have before us beautiful decorations, and the 

 elaborate menu which we have discussed, as well as everything else connected 

 with it, including liquids, has convinced me that scientists are only mortals 

 after all. 



I know that you have enjoyed yourselves thoroughly. You have partaken 

 of the good things set before you and some of you may even have indulged in 

 something besides Schuylkill water; (I should have said, "some of us.") 



I have made a discovery this evening which is of such importance that it 

 must be announced first before this august assembly. It is nothing less than 

 that the forty women who are as much members of the Academy as any of you 

 men, do not seem to be able to eat. This is the most remarkable discovery of 

 recent years. I am sure these ladies would not be excluded from the feast 

 had they learned to eat like men! 6 



I shall be brief, as there are many speakers to follow me. We are proud of 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. It is known all over 

 the world and is one of the institutions that appeals to every citizen. The 

 Academy has done much to give Philadelphia the name and the fame to which 

 we are justly entitled as a center of learning. I believe the collections in your 

 building are as extensive and as valuable as those in any similar institution in the 

 United States. They have been gathered through the energy and care of the men 

 who have, in one hundred years, from small and humble beginnings, succeeded 

 in giving to Philadelphia its foremost scientific society. How it has flourished in 



6 In allusion to the fact that there were no ladies present. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxix 



recent years, and especially during the term of your office, President Dixon, 

 is well known to all. A splendid future is in store for us of service to the City, 

 the State and to the whole country, in collaboration with the many other edu- 

 cational institutions of a similar character of which we boast. 



We should not duplicate too much, but try to have every institution attend 

 to its own province and functions. Every institution of learning ought to have 

 an individuality of its own, and I believe that the Academy has an individuality 

 that is not part and parcel of any other institution of our city. 



Philadelphia is going to build a new Free Library. This Library will be 

 located on the Parkway. (Whenever I hear the Parkway mentioned, I feel like 

 crawling into a hole and pulling the hole in after me.) There are many people 

 in Philadelphia who think that the Parkway is the most important project 

 before the public to-day. I am not of this opinion. We all favor the Parkway; 

 we all want to beautify Philadelphia, make her something like Paris, at one 

 time the most beautiful city of the world. As we know, Paris has the Champs 

 Elysees. There is nothing quite equal to this Paris "parkway," as we would 

 call it in our vernacular. We shall give Philadelphia a Champs Elysees, only 

 let us be reasonable as to time. We have no Baron Haussman nor Emperor 

 Napoleon, who simply demolished and built up as they pleased, because they 

 were accountable to no one for their acts. If we had commenced operations 

 forty years ago, Philadelphia to-day would probably be as beautiful as Paris, 

 but we were utilitarians then and had little thought for the beautiful. Now we 

 have awakened, and it is not yet too late. 



We are going to finish the Parkway, and on this Parkway, almost opposite 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences, we shall build a new Free Library. We 

 mean to make this library one of the institutions of the country. I ask of you 

 here present, as I request the gentlemen at the head of the Free Library, not to 

 enter the domain of the other; that is, not to duplicate or to waste force in the 

 same direction. Let each be original in its own way. What is the use of a 

 library with books of reference that will be rarely used and then have these 

 books duplicated across the street? You have a library with many rare sci- 

 entific books that are useful to you in your own researches. There is no sense in 

 having in a library across the street the same books. Let us cooperate. With 

 cooperation we can have everything in Philadelphia that will tend towards the 

 benefit and welfare of the whole community. 



We are all proud of Philadelphia, even those who live at a distance, even 

 those from Boston, the "Hub of the Universe." Philadelphia is one of the great 

 and leading cities of the world. We have many institutions that are not to be 

 found elsewhere. Take Girard College, with its vast grounds and fine buildings. 

 Stephen Girard, a Frenchman, gave us Girard College; his name is honored and 

 will be revered for all time. Fifteen hundred is the average number of orphan 

 boys who are there educated year in and j^ear out, free of charge. They are 

 housed, fed, clothed, and educated, and many of the graduates of that college 




xxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



are to-day citizens of prominence in our commonwealth and all over the United 

 States. We have the finest public schools, we have the University of Pennsyl- 

 vania and many other educational institutions, each in its own way adding its 

 share toward the education of our people and the advancement of our great 

 country. 



One more thought a thought that has been dear to me for many years: 

 Science is one of the great powers for progress and light, but it must be combined 

 in its teachings with hard, common sense. Let us get as close as we can to 

 nature, for all science comes from and is closely related to nature, and the more 

 natural we are, the wiser we shall become. Sense and science should govern us 

 in the problem of government, especially that of municipal government, for it 

 comes closest to us and is all-important in the destinies of our land. If we have 

 honest, efficient and pure municipal government, the question of the future of 

 our country will be solved. 



We are to-day attempting in Philadelphia to solve this important question. 

 Our people suffered for many years because selfishness had taken the place of 

 public spirit; avarice, that of high-minded devotion to the public good; cowardice, 

 that of courage; partisanship had conquered patriotism. The people had for 

 many years failed to rule Philadelphia, just as they failed in other municipalities. 

 At last we proclaimed in our own city a new Declaration of Independence. The 

 people arose in their might, threw off the shackles, declared for and obtained 

 freedom. This is a government, as Lincoln so vividly and tersely expressed it, 

 "of the people, by the people, and for the people." Let us have this kind of 

 government. It is the legitimate rule; the natural, the scientific and philo- 

 sophical direction of public affairs. You members of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences can help to establish a "Public Academy of all the Sciences," of splendid 

 common sense and patriotic spirit for the whole city. Then we shall solve the 

 great question of municipal government, of honest and progressive government 

 on business lines. 



Forgive me for speaking of myself, but thirty, aye forty years of my life have 

 been devoted to this problem. The opportunity has at last presented itself 

 for solution. We have commenced and are doing the best we know how. 

 We are applying scientific methods to every department of the city government, 

 and I ask you, members of the Academy of Natural Sciences, to help us apply the 

 principles that prompt your devotion and energy, to the solution of the question 

 of municipal government. Then one hundred years hence, at your bi-centennial 

 celebration, it will be related as a proud historical fact that, when the Centenary 

 of the Academy was celebrated, the prediction was made and has been fulfilled 

 that this great society could, would and did lend its weighty influence to the 

 popular cause. That it applied the same thoughts and ideas to the solution of 

 municipal government that it has given to the investigation and expansion of 

 the natural sciences. 



Then the second centenary of this influential body will not only be identified 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxi 



with the accomplishment of the noble purposes that you and all of us have set 

 out to accomplish, but it will also behold and celebrate the solution of the great 

 municipal problem which involves the permanent existence of the government 

 that was established by Washington and preserved by Lincoln. 



Our government is founded and will be perpetuated on thoughts and ideals 

 expressed in four of the most illustrious documents ever emanating from human 

 mind the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, Washington's Fare- 

 well Address, and Lincoln's address at Gettysburg. Give us the government 

 defined by these patriots and this country will be a beacon light to all nations for 

 all time to come. 



Dr. Conklin: 



Many different countries are represented here to-night. One of them has 

 been foremost in the natural sciences, the land of Cuvier, the land of Saint Hilaire, 

 the land of Lamarck. I have great pleasure in presenting to you Mons. Jean 

 de Pulligny, the Director of the French Commission of Engineers to the United 

 States, who will convey the greetings of the French scientific societies on this 

 occasion. 



Mons. de Pulligny: 



Mr. President and Gentlemen: It is an agreeable duty and a great honor to 

 me to address a meeting of such men as are gathered around me this evening. 

 I have come here to carry the greetings of all French scientific societies, and 

 especially the Ecole Polytechnique, of which I had the honor of being a pupil in 

 my youth, a good many years ago. 



If you can look back with legitimate pride on a century of useful work, the 

 Ecole Polytechnique can claim sixteen years more of kindred occupation. 



I regret that we will not meet at the end of another century to comment on 

 the success of the Academy during the intervening years. So, gentlemen, I renew 

 the hearty congratulations of the French societies, especially the Ecole Poly- 

 technique to which I shall carry back the greetings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Dr. Conklin: 



We have with us the distinguished President of a sister institution, be- 

 lieved in New York, and perhaps elsewhere, to be the greatest museum of 

 natural history in the world. I imagine that on this occasion it would 

 scarcely be safe to insist on this; but there were some German scholars 

 over here studying museums, a few years ago, and one of them went back and 

 published a report in German, which said that the plans of the American Museum 

 of Natural History of New York would, when carried out, give it that rank. 

 We are, therefore, particularly pleased to have with us the President of that 

 institution, one who is no stranger in this place; who was associated intimately 

 with Cope, who called him "one of my boys." He is the man who, in the Bronx 




xxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Zoological Garden, has brought to our doors the wonders of the living world; 

 and who, in the American Museum of Natural History in the Central Park, has 

 made to live again the strange monsters of a past world. I have pleasure in 

 calling upon Professor Henry Fairfield Osborn to speak to us upon the culti- 

 vation by the Academy of the science of paleontology. 



Dr. Osborn: 



In addressing the Mayor of Philadelphia, the President and members of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and the Toastmaster, I rise with 

 the greatest pleasure to the toast of "The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia and its Relation to the Development of Paleontology in America." 



I bring greetings to the Academy from the scientific institutions of New 

 York City, the American Museum of Natural History, and Columbia University, 

 as well as an expression of the debt that all of us constantly feel to the men who 

 have worked within these walls and have developed that division of the biology 

 of the past known as paleontology. 



This country has ever afforded peculiar opportunities for the development of 

 this branch of science which was founded in France by the genius of Cuvier. 

 There were first the Pleistocene fossils discovered in the Eastern and Middle 

 States, some of which Thomas Jefferson considered of greater interest than the 

 political developments in the stirring period of 180S. Then came our Western 

 Territory, an arid region constituting an unknown continent. The first explorers 

 of the Mauvaises Terres brought back a revelation of the existence of wonderful 

 records of the world's life. Fortunately for science as early as 1851 these frag- 

 ments were brought to Philadelphia, and to the hands of one who lives immortal 

 in the history of American science and the world's science, Dr. Joseph Leidy. 



Never was there a greater opportunity and never was there a man more ready 

 to grasp it than that quiet, unpretentious, unassuming, wonderfully gifted ob- 

 server of nature. It is particularly interesting to review his work, which was 

 written in the exact spirit of Cuvier, and to see his long record of direct observa- 

 tion of the entire extinct fauna, not only of the East but especially of the great 

 western territories, to find how permanent that work is, how well it stands the 

 test of time, how accurate his descriptions, how perfect his figures and illustra- 

 tions, and how, even today, they form the best standards for all the work which 

 has been done since. So I think it may fairly and truly be said, without any 

 exaggeration incidental to this historic moment, that Joseph Leidy was the 

 founder of the paleontology of the vertebrates in America. After a continuous 

 series of epoch-making papers and contributions which he was in the habit of 

 contributing year after year to meeting after meeting he brought his work to 

 a climax in 1869 when he published his great monograph, The Extinct Mammalian 

 Fauna of Nebraska and Dakota, in the Journal of the Academy. That work still 

 ranks in its breadth and its accuracy as one of the finest contributions that has 

 been made to vertebrate paleontology in this country. In fact, Leidy started 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxiii 



with an entirely new world of life, because he soon learned that he could not base 

 his study of American fossils on the work of the French paleontologists, for the 

 life of our western regions was not known in the Old World, every specimen 

 represented a new species, a new genus, or a new family, and in some cases a 

 new order. 



It proved an unfortunate circumstance for Leidy that paleontology is a science 

 requiring ample expenditure of money, for as years went on he was reluctantly 

 obliged to leave the field to his equally ambitious and more wealthy pupils and 

 followers, Cope and Marsh, whose writings belong to the new, or Darwinian 

 period of the science, while Leidy was essentially pre-Darwinian. The three 

 men, were, however, intimately associated with the Academy; they put the science 

 of vertebrate paleontology as coming from the United States on a new basis, 

 commanding the attention and admiration of the savants of the Old World. 

 This was a great achievement, and its beginnings issued from these halls. 



It is most interesting to contrast the characters of the three men, Joseph 

 Leidy, Edward Drinker Cope, and Othneil Charles Marsh. They were as differ- 

 ent as any three men could possibly be made by nature and nurture. In the 

 admirable speech of your Mayor nothing truer was said than that he had made a 

 discovery at this dinner, namely, that scientists are only mortals, after all. 

 Whereas Leidy was essentially a man of peace, Cope was what might be called 

 a "militant" paleontologist; whereas Leidy 's motto was "Peace at any price," 

 Cope's was "War, whatever it costs." Perhaps there was a scientific Provi- 

 dence in all this, perhaps these antagonistic spirits were necessary to enliven and 

 disseminate interest in this branch of science throughout the country. This 

 subtle combative quality in paleontology seems a strange quality; by a strange 

 inversion, the more ancient, the more difficult to study, the more refractory 

 the fossil, the greater the animation of discussion regarding its relationship and 

 descent. From this subtle ferment there arose the famous rivalry which existed, 

 not between Leidy and either of the others, because it was impossible to quarrel 

 with Leidy, but between the descendant of a Quaker family and the nephew of 

 a great philanthropist. It is certain that when I took up the subject as a young 

 man and first came to the City of Brotherly Love thirty-five years ago, from the 

 quiet shades of Princeton, I always expected to learn of some fresh discussion, 

 some recent combat ; and it was always here in the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 that one could find one of the centers of the convulsive movements. I remember 

 one day coming into this very hall and finding two of the youthful attendants 

 carrying on an animated discussion regarding a dispute that they had overheard 

 at the meeting of the Academy the night before. 



Whereas in Leidy we had a man of the temper of an exact observer, Cope 

 was a man who loved speculation; if Leidy was the natural successor of Cuvier, 

 Cope was the follower of Lamarck, a man of remarkable inventive genius. Leidy 

 covered in his contributions to the Academy the whole world of nature from the 

 Protozoa and Infusoria up to Man, and lived as the last great naturalist of the 



2* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA., VOL. XV. 




xxxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



old type who was able by capacity and training to cover the whole field of nature, 

 whereas Cope mastered, in itself a wonderful achievement, the entire domain 

 of the vertebrates from the fishes up. Marsh, with less breadth and less 

 ability, nevertheless was a comparative anatomist of a high order, and had a 

 genius for appreciating what might be called the most important thing in science. 

 He always knew where to explore, where to seek the transition stages, and he 

 never lost the opportunity to point out at the earliest possible moment the most 

 significant fact to be discovered and disseminated. 



These three men, therefore, approached the subject from the standpoint of 

 three entirely different temperaments and their contributions were of an entirely 

 different character. Leidy was a great describer, Cope was a phenomenal 

 taxonomist, while Marsh was less productive than either but extremely effective 

 in everything he published. Leidy was not a taxonomist or classifier of animals, 

 he was a great naturalist; Cope revolutionized every class of vertebrates which 

 he treated: fishes, amphibians, reptiles, mammals, by his novel arrangement 

 of their systematic characters and his daring innovations in classification. 



I had the pleasure of knowing Leidy slightly and of a long personal acquain- 

 tance with Marsh ; I knew Cope very intimately, I was, as your toastmaster 

 said, "one of his boys." He always welcomed Scott and myself to his house; 

 his library and his collections were as open as those of a museum. On one 

 memorable occasion when I visited his house he pulled out a drawer of his black 

 walnut work-table, where he always sat and wrote his papers, and brought out a 

 packet carefully done up in paper and twine, saying, "Osborn, here are some 

 records that you have never seen before." I said, "Well, what are they?" 

 He replied, "These are my Marshiana, here is everything relating to the mistakes 

 which that man Marsh has made; and when the time comes, Osborn, I am going 

 to launch this on the world." Well, he did; the bombshell was exploded in due 

 time, and this great mass of information regarding the supposed incapacity of 

 Marsh was spread on the pages of the New York Herald in one of its Sunday issues. 

 The very next Sunday, however, Marsh, who, it appears, had likewise been 

 accumulating a private stock of Copeiana, proved with equal success that Cope's 

 life was one long string of errors from first to last. 



Heredity makes strange bedfellows. It is only by the most extraordinary 

 combination of personal characteristics that we find among scientific men of the 

 greatest capacity, such strange mixtures of personal qualities side by side with 

 genius. 



Time, however, softens things and also brings about some strange recombi- 

 nations and associations. Marsh in the course of time passed away, Cope 

 followed him, and Mrs. Cope was good enough to send to the American Museum 

 of Natural History his historic black walnut work-table together with a complete 

 set of his writings. I remembered the drawer out of which Cope had pulled his 

 "Marshiana." Shortly afterward Director Walcott invited me to succeed 

 Marsh as paleontologist of the United States Geological Survey, and soon 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxv 



after I received from New Haven all of Marsh's manuscripts; that is, everything 

 not published which related to his unfinished monographs. Where was the 

 best place to put these manuscripts? Why, in the same drawer in which Cope 

 had collected his Marshiana, and there they may be found today. 



Well, gentlemen, let me in closing wish the Academy of Natural Sciences the 

 company and association of many more such men as Leidy, Cope, and Marsh; 

 let me express the hope that this present life of the Academy with its new oppor- 

 tunities, may be a continuation of the old life, but that with improved conditions 

 there may come the discovery among the young students of the public schools 

 and your University, men of genius to succeed those we are honoring tonight. 



If you have in this great city, as is undoubtedly the case, young men with 

 a talent for such studies, here is where they will find their opportunity, here is 

 where they will be welcomed, and here is where the Academy will develop the 

 men who will continue its glorious traditions. 



The President: 



I had declined to speak this evening because I thought it my place to 

 listen to what others had to say about the institution that has been so 

 effectively sustained by the citizens of Philadelphia and of the Commonwealth 

 of Pennsylvania, but after listening to the history of the wars between the 

 naturalists of the past, at this time when the Academy has just received the 

 most gracious testimonials from her sister institutions all over the world assuring 

 us of their sympathy and cooperation in our work, one is encouraged to hope for 

 an international code of peace. I realize more fully than ever that scientific 

 and educational institutions are effective agents in establishing such a code. 

 Most gratifying to our members and to the citizens of Philadelphia in general 

 are the compliments paid the Academy by scientists from every part of the 

 world and such assurances of cooperation give rise to reasonable hope that the 

 work of the Academy and kindred institutions will be an important factor in the 

 establishment of peace on earth and good will among men. 



Dr. Conklin: 



We are greatly honored to-night in having with us the Nestor of Amer- 

 ican Zoology, a man who was contemporary with Joseph Leidy, and the 

 other men of whom we have just been hearing. I refer to Dr. Theodore N. 

 Gill, of the National Museum at Washington. Here at the Academy we have 

 the custom of dating events as before or after Nolan. Dr. Gill tells me that he 

 was elected a member of this Academy in the year 1860. Now, since Dr. Nolan 

 became connected with the Academy as a boy in 1862, we have to admit that 

 Dr. Gill belongs to the pre-Nolan period. Dr. Gill has recently been very ill, 

 and he has paid us the great compliment of coming here and staying throughout 

 the whole celebration; and I am now glad to call on him to tell us whatever he 

 may please, just as his spirit may move him. 



As this is the seventy-fifth birthday of Dr. Gill I propose that we stand and 

 drink his health. 



This was cordially done. 




xxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Dr. Gill: 



It is fifty-two years since I was elected a Correspondent of this Academy. 

 When Dr. Nolan gave his address, night before last, it was with the greatest 

 pleasure that I listened to his reminiscences. When admitted to association I 

 was given all the privileges of the society: I had a pass-key, and could visit 

 the Academy not only by day, but also by night. I take the greatest pleasure 

 in acknowledging the advantages enjoyed by me at that time, and to testify as 

 to how greatly I enjoyed the benefits conferred by the institution and how 

 persistently I attempted to derive from it all the benefits possible. 



The Academy was then a comparatively small institution, but nevertheless 

 far ahead of any other of the kind in the country. In that early time (that is, 

 during the last of the 50's and the first of the 60's), there were in Philadelphia 

 quite a remarkable collection of young students of about the same age, almost all 

 of whom belonged to the Academy. One of these that I recall (and I think that 

 I recall almost all of them) was Edward Cope. Another was Horatio Wood, 

 who is the only one of the lot now living. 



Cope, as you know, was versatile. At that time, he was almost exclusively 

 interested in the reptiles, but he developed year after year, in many ways, so 

 that he covered all nature, not even confining himself to the vertebrates. 



Horatio Wood was at that time more especially interested in the myriapods 

 and the horny corals. 



George Horn was also active. He was at that time also interested in the 

 corals. A short time after he took up the study of Coleoptera, in which he 

 became a past master. 



Gabb was actively engaged in the study of invertebrate paleontology. 



These men occasionally assembled together. One such meeting was in March, 

 1861, when William Stimpson was present. Absenting himself for a time he 

 came back with some doggerel, in which he included those present. It was 

 dedicated to the "Polymythian Society of Monosyllables, who contributed nine- 

 tenths of the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 1861," and 

 as nearly as I remember it ran somewhat as follows : 



"Into this well of learning dipped, 

 With spoon of Wood or Horn 

 For students, Meek and lowly, 



Silver spoons should treat with scorn. 

 Though Gabb should have the gifts of Gill, 



As Gill has gift of Gabb, 

 'Twould show a want of judgment still, 

 To try to Cope with Meek." 



The Academy was a most delightful place. I made frequent visits from 

 Washington, and in 1861 I held a Jessup Fund Scholarship for three months, 

 enjoying largely my continued stay in Philadelphia. During that time, I had 

 the free use of the building, and still had a pass-key, which I freely used. 



Among the older members who impressed me were Leidy, Conrad, Isaac Lea, 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxvii 



and Tryon. Leidy was a handsome man of striking personality but somewhat 

 round-shouldered. He was a man of the widest range of knowledge and infor- 

 mation and was able to put his hand almost immediately on any book of reference. 

 He was familiar with all forms of life from Amceba to Man. I entered the Uni- 

 versity as a medical student under him. As a lecturer, he was not eloquent, but 

 he gave the facts in a trenchant, impressive way which arrested the attention and 

 gave direction to the thoughts of the student. In range of knowledge, he excelled 

 anyone that I have ever known even Cope was much inferior in that respect, 

 but Leidy was not a generalizer and did not care to consider questions from a 

 philosophical point of view. Cope, on the contrary, was willing to discuss any 

 philosophical question. One of the subjects of the day (that was before Darwin's 

 day, you know) in which Cope was deeply interested was the vertebrate theory 

 of the skull. That has been so completely buried that I fear many of you may 

 not be familiar with what the theory was. It held that the skull was composed 

 of four vertebra?. It was more especially advocated by Richard Owen, and 

 widely accepted in England. The first discussion of any length I had with Cope 

 was on the subject of this vertebrate theory. He strenuously advocated it; 

 I contended against it, and gave my reasons. We went to Leidy and appealed 

 to him, and he said: "I do not take any interest in these questions. I do not 

 believe in the theory." 



Dr. Conklin: 



Gentlemen: We have with us the director of another museum, one of the 

 greatest of this country, that of the Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh. Wherever 

 you go, in the great museums in this country or abroad, you will see life sized 

 models of that prehistoric beast, Diplodocus carnegii, a creature which always 

 reminds me of the poet's description of the comet: "Ten thousand miles of 

 flaming head; ten million miles of tail." 



I call upon Dr. William J. Holland, of Pittsburgh. 



Dr. Holland : 



Through the kindness of the Toastmaster I have been spared the agony of 

 suspense, which sometimes afflicts those who are called upon to make after- 

 dinner speeches. You may have heard that Daniel accounted for his escape 

 from the lions by stating that they were to make an after-dinner speech and had 

 therefore lost their appetites. I have dined in peace and face you with a glad 

 heart and unimpaired digestion. 



When I was a boy of ten my mother brought me to Philadelphia. I had 

 in my pocket four gold dollars little gold dollars some of you remember them. 

 I went to the bookstore of J. B. Lippincott, and I bought Dr. Livingstone's 

 first volume. I have that book in my library to-day. It is the first book bought 

 with my own money, and stands first in a long list of thousands of volumes which 

 are in my library. It is on that account one of my treasures. My mother was 




xxxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



wont to tease me afterwards because I used to express fear that Dr. Livingstone 

 would discover everything in Africa before I could have a chance. The day after 

 visiting Lippincott's bookstore I visited the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 lodged in that tall narrow building, which has been referred to this evening as 

 having stood where later stood the Hotel Lafayette. There I feasted my eyes 

 upon Dr. Kane's polar bear. For years the memory of that wonderful sight has 

 lived with me, and whenever thinking of the arctic regions, Dr. Kane's polar 

 bear, by the laws of natural association, has come back in memory, glorified, as 

 are all the visions of childhood. Yesterday, after more than half a century, 

 I saw Dr. Kane's polar bear again. Horrible! How the now time-worn relic 

 has shattered the memories of childhood! Taxidermy has made great advances 

 during the past half of a century. We can do better in the way of stuffing polar 

 bears to-day. We had three polar bears sent in cold storage to us from within 

 the Arctic Circle only a short time ago, and prepared them in Pittsburgh. Had 

 anybody told me more than fifty years ago, as I stood looking at Dr. Kane's 

 bear, that I should myself have three bears of the same species shipped to me 

 from Siberia to Pittsburgh, and that I should have them skinned there and 

 mounted for a museum, I should have declared the idea supremely ridiculous. 

 But the thing has actually happened. 



To be a member of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia seemed 

 to me in my youth the highest honor which could come to mortal man; and later, 

 when good old Doctor Ruschenberger, Mr. John Jordan, the President of the 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania, and Dr. Nolan proposed me for membership, 

 I was one of the happiest young men in America. 



The memories which cluster around this institution are precious to me. 

 I will not speak of those who are living. I knew Durand and Fiot, and many 

 other botanists, who in my youth were connecting links with the early days of 

 this institution. When Mr. Stone entertained us this afternoon with his most 

 interesting account of the pine-barrens of New Jersey, there came back to me a 

 flood of recollections of certain golden days which I passed in company with 

 Durand, Fiot, my own father (who was a botanist), and my mother's cousin, 

 Francis Wolle, on the occasion of an excursion to New Jersey to study and 

 collect plants. I am glad to recognize here to-night the son-in-law of Francis 

 Wolle, Professor Doolittle, the honored professor of astronomy in the University 

 of Pennsylvania. These halcyon days, when all the world was young, and my 

 friends were the wisest of all men, when the flowers we gathered were the 

 brightest, and the bird-songs we heard were the sweetest, will never come 

 again. 



It has been my lot for a number of years to preside over the destinies of the 

 great museum established by the generosity of one of the most noted sons (by 

 adoption) of Pennsylvania at the headwaters of the Ohio. Supported by the 

 generous gifts and sympathetic counsels of Andrew Carnegie we have undertaken 

 to do in the western part of this great Commonwealth work allied to that which 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xxxix 



your Academy is doing here on the banks of the Delaware. The kindling 

 inspiration, the fire on our altar, came from the hearthstone of science here. 

 There is a great field for research before us, as we stand in the gateway of the 

 West, through which Long, and Lewis and Carke, went forth for their journeys 

 of exploration, but the original impulse and the exemplification of what is to be 

 done have come to us through such men as your own Say, Audubon, LeConte, 

 and Leidy. 



But let us forget Pittsburgh for a moment and come back to this institution. 

 Gentlemen, the best library of scientific literature in the departments of zoology 

 and botany in North America is found under this roof We owe a debt to Thomas 

 B. Wilson and the men who have come after him for having assembled here in 

 this library the works of the great scientific investigators in these fields, as they 

 have from time to time appeared. We are attempting in Pittsburgh to build 

 up such a library; but, only the other day, when one of my associates proposed 

 to me to prepare a bibliography of the ichthyology of South America, I was 

 compelled to say to him, "Run over to Philadelphia to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences and there prepare the manuscript in the form in which it ought to be. 

 It is idle to cite titles at second-hand. The books are in Philadelphia. Go 

 there." He went, and we have secured a bibliography covering the subject, as I 

 trust, in a satisfactory manner. In order to do it we had to send to Philadelphia. 



Gentlemen, science, which is simply ordered knowledge, has had no more 

 efficient handmaiden in this country during the last century than The Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the Centenary of which we are celebrating 

 at this time. I am a member of many of the great societies in Europe, but, as 

 I said a few moments ago in conversation with my friend Dr. Nolan, the Zoo- 

 logical and Linnean Societies of London, the Societe Zoologique de France, and 

 a score of others, which I might name, have none of them done more useful work, 

 nor accomplished better things for the advancement of human knowledge, than 

 this Academy, so admirably presided over to-day by our honored friend, Dr. 

 Dixon. 



As Americans and as Pennsylvanians we are proud of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, we rejoice in the achievements of the one hundred years 

 which have passed, and our wish and hope is that, when another hundred years 

 shall have rolled their course, this institution will stand proudly, wearing even 

 greater honors, and possessed of even more exalted reputation, than now belong 

 to her. 



Dr. Conklin: 



Gentlemen: We are celebrating to-night not merely the Centenary of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but also the Semi-Centenary of 

 Dr. Edward J. Nolan's connection with this Academy. Let us stand and 

 drink to the health of Dr. Nolan. 



I call upon Dr. Nolan "to read the 'rough minutes' of the meeting." 




xl PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Dr. Nolan: 



Gentlemen: I can say metaphorically as well as literally that I am not yet 

 too full for utterance, but I am reminded of a friend who has undergone so 

 many surgical operations that she declares she has nothing left but lungs and 

 recollections. I have, however, in addition, a tongue, and as long as the lungs 

 continue to supply the motor force, I am willing to talk in the interest of the 

 Academy. 



I have been dealing earlier in the proceedings somewhat extensively in 

 "recollections" but were I not surrounded by friends, I should feel tonight as 

 a stranger in a strange land. The Academy moved into this building in 1876, 

 when I had for fourteen years been administering the affairs of the Library 

 and the Publication Office to the best of my ability and with little or no assist- 

 ance. Many of you remember the aspect of this old hall, austere, not to say 

 dingy, in which the work was continued until the completion of the stack building, 

 and we are startlingly conscious tonight of how it has been transformed by the 

 energy of the President. In the northeast corner was the little room in which I sat 

 and worked for more than thirty-six years. Its only attraction was the view it af- 

 forded of the beautiful trees in Logan Square. Directly to the west, separated by 

 an alcove, was the even darker and gloomier room inhabited by my beloved pre- 

 ceptor, Joseph Leidy, of whom you have heard so much tonight. There he did 

 much of the work which has rendered this society illustrious, always ready, no 

 matter what his engrossment, to give his time for the assistance of others. Ar- 

 ranged around the hall were equally small and gloomy study rooms, every one 

 teeming with recollections of men who have been efficient in promoting the 

 credit of the Academy. These were placed, as far as possible, at the service of 

 visiting naturalists as well as resident students, and in one of them the genial 

 Elliott Coues from time to time did much work in ornithological bibliography. 

 He told me on one occasion that it was the most satisfactory room in which he 

 had ever worked "for if I had a good fishing-pole I could draw to my table 

 every book I need without getting up." A little beyond, Heilprin, for a time, 

 discharged the duties of Executive Curator, and the last room on the north side 

 was for some months inhabited by the venerable Titian R. Peale, a contemporary 

 of the founders. 



Recollections become more vivid as I go on, regardless of the lovely lights 

 and plants and draperies and evidences of good cheer that everywhere delight 

 our senses tonight. There to the right of where I now stand Tryon was en- 

 sconsed for years, engaged on his epoch-making work in conchology, and just 

 beyond Henry C. McCook elaborated the results of his fine field-work among the 

 ants and spiders. The other rooms were occupied from time to time by equally 

 illustrious men. It was to the door directly opposite mine that the good angel 

 of a distinguished arctic explorer directed his steps when he succeeded in enlisting 

 the Corresponding Secretary's interest in his plans. Had he turned to the right 

 instead of to the left he would have met with but scant encouragement. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xli 



I have a vivid remembrance of another social gathering in this hall. It was 

 a very generous dinner given by the lamented William S. Vaux to the Centennial 

 Commissioners in 1876. The affair was a distinguished success, the provision 

 both of solids and liquids being generous and the spirit of the gathering most 

 genial, but when I contrast the surroundings of that occasion with those we are 

 enjoying tonight, I am impressed with the fact that "the world do move." 



The only other event of the kind in the history of the Academy is a pleasant 

 tradition, and not one of my recollections. It was a dinner given in 1854, at 

 the instance of Dr. Ruschenberger, who acted as Chairman, in Musical Fund 

 Hall. One hundred and four members enjoyed the feast and joy was unre- 

 strained. At the risk of causing discontent with the elegant and sufficient bill 

 of fare provided for this evening's entertainment, I shall, as an illustration 

 of the change in social usage, call your attention to the perfectly exuberant 

 catalogue of eatables provided on that occasion. Without dwelling too much 

 on details I may say that while there was but one soup, and that nameless, 

 there were two kinds of fish, four boiled meats, ten side dishes, the French 

 names of which I shall not pronounce out of regard for the feelings of 

 Mons. de Pulligny. Then there were five roasts: beef, capons, saddle 

 of mutton, turkey, and ham. Under game were served pheasants, prairie 

 grouse, partridges, terrapin, and (it is to be hoped not too game) fried oysters. 

 There were six entries under "Pastry"; ten under "Dessert," and the whole 

 was washed down with Madeira, Champagne (Heidsieck and Mumm's), Pale 

 Sherry, Claret, Brown Sherry, Scharzberg, Steinberg, Liebfraumilch, Brandy, 

 Coffee, Whisky and, last but probably not least Punch. Curiously enough there 

 is no mention of ice cream, so apparently indispensable at the close of our 

 contemporary feasts. 



Strange to say the work of the Academy went on as usual, no notable ad- 

 ditions to the death list having been recorded on the minutes of subsequent 

 meetings. 



I think our admirable committee on entertainment, while they no doubt 

 have done as well as they could, have supplied no such provision for the inner 

 man as is set forth on that bill of fare of 1854. 



Of course, congratulations are in order. The President has indicated our 

 feelings on that subject, and it is not necessary to say more. It is very 

 likely, almost certain, so far as we know at present, that nobody here now will 

 participate in the second hundred years' celebration of the Academy's birthday; 

 but we do not know what may eventuate in this era of progress in biological 

 science, and Metchnikoff or some one else may discover a life-renewing bacillus 

 that will leave at our discretion the extent of our lives. If this be so, one 

 reason for wishing to prolong our existence would be the anticipated joy of 

 participating in the celebration of the Two-Hundredth Anniversary of the 

 Academy; and if I meet with any of you on that occasion I am sure we shall be a 

 bunch of jolly old boys. And so Good Night. 




xlii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Dr. Conklin: 



Now, gentlemen, we have come to the close of the first century of the 

 Academy. Some of you may think we have got further but we are only enter- 

 ing upon the second century, and I propose that we all rise and drink to the 

 continued growth and glory of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The toast was drunk standing and with the singing of Auld Lang Syne the 

 company adjourned at 11.45 P. M. 




DELEGATES TO THE CENTENARY CELEBRATION. 



The following delegates were appointed by the institutions in connection 

 with which they are named: 



Frank Dawson Adams, Ph.D., F.R.S., 



The Geological Society of London. 

 John W. Adams, V.P.M. 



The University of Minnesota. 

 Herman V. Ames, A.M., Ph.D., 



Amherst College. 

 Edwin S. Balch, A.B., 



The Franklin Institute. 

 George A. Barton, Ph.D., 



The Archaeological Institute of America. 

 John Birkenbine, 



The American Institute of Mining Engineers. 

 James Arnold Blaisdell, 



Pomona College, Claremont, Cal. 

 Walter M. Boehm, Ph.D., 



The State University of Iowa. 

 W. E. Britton, Ph.D., 



The Entomological Society of America. 

 Ernest William Brown, A.M., Sc.D., 



The University of Cambridge, England, 



The Royal Society of London. 

 Henry G. Bryant, LL.B., 



The Geographical Society of Philadelphia, 



The Royal Geographical Society of London. 

 His Excellency Hon. Helmar Bryn, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister 

 Plenipotentiary of Norway to the United States of America. 



Kongelige Frederika Universitet, Kristiania. 

 Thomas J. Burrill, Ph.D., LL.D., 



The University of Illinois. 

 Gary N. Calkins, Ph.D., 



Soci6te Zoologique de France. 

 Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 



Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales. 

 William Campbell, A.M., D.Sc, Ph.D., 



The University of Durham Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon- 

 Tyne. 



xliii 




xliv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



E. P. Cathcart, 



The University of Glasgow. 

 George Hubbard Clapp, Ph.B. 



The Carnegie Institute and Museum. 



The University of Pittsburgh. 

 William Bullock Clark, Ph.D., LL.D., 



Johns Hopkins University, 



The National Academy of Sciences. 

 Richard A. Cleeman, M.D., 



The College of Physicians of Philadelphia. 



F. V. Colville, 



The Washington Academy of Sciences. 

 John H. Comstock, 



The Entomological Society of London. 

 Melville T. Cook, Ph.D., 



The Connecticut Experimental Station, 



The American Phytopathological Society. 

 W. M. C. Coplin, M.D., 



The Philadelphia Pathological Society. 

 Ezra T. Cresson, 



The American Entomological Society. 

 Whitman Cross, Ph.D., 



The Geological Society of London. 

 Charles B. Davenport, A.M., M.D., 



Societe Zoologique de France. 

 William Morris Davis, Ph.D., 



The Geological Association of London. 

 William T. Davis, 



The Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences. 

 Alvin Davison, Ph.D., 



Lafayette College. 

 Edward V. DTnvilliers, 



The American Institute of Mining Engineers. 

 Raymond L. Ditmars, 



The New York Zoological Society. 

 Hon. Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., 



Accademia della Scienze Fisiche e Matematiche di Napoli, 



Ateneo Veneto, 



R. Scuola Superiore di Agricultura in Portici, 



Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Catania, 



Societa di Lettere e Conversazione Scientifiche, Genova, 



I. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli Agiati, Rovereto, 



Universita di Torino. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xlv 



* 



James Mapes Dodge, 



The Engineers' Society of Western Pennsylvania. 

 Henry H. Donaldson, Ph.D., Sc.D., 



The American Philosophical Society, 



The University of Chicago. 

 Charles L. Doolittle, Sc.D., 



The University of Michigan. 

 Henry Sturgis Drinker, E.M., LL.D., 



Lehigh University. 

 Jonathan Dwight, Jr., M.D., 



The American Ornithologists' Union, 



The Linnaean Society of New York. 

 Hon. W. A. F. Ekengren, Charge d'Affaires, Swedish Legation, Washington, 

 D. C. 



K. Vetenskaps Akademien, 



Sallskapet for Anthropologi och Geographi. 

 David G. Fairchild, 



The Bureau of Plant Industry. 

 William Gibson Farlow, M.D., LL.D., 



The Linnean Society of London. 

 Joseph Horace Faull, Ph.D., 



The Canadian Institute. 

 Ephraim P. Felt, Sc.D., 



The Entomological Society of America. 

 Charles H. Fernald, Ph.D., 



The Entomological Society of London. 

 J. Walter Fewkes, A.M., Ph.D., 



The American Anthropological Association. 

 Stephen A. Forbes, Ph.D., 



The Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. 

 Howard B. French, 



Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 

 Charles Stuart Gager, Ph.D., 



Torrey Botanical Club, 



The University of Missouri. 

 Theodore N. Gill, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., 



The Smithsonian Institution. 

 Clarence McC. Gordon, A.M., Ph.D., 



Lafayette College. 

 Sir James Grant, M.D., 



The Royal Society of Canada. 

 Milton J. Greenman, M.D., 



The Wistar Institute of Anatomy. 




xlvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Ross G. Harrison, A.M., Ph.D., 



The American Association of Anatomists. 

 Samuel Henshaw, A.M., 



The Museum of Comparative Zoology, 



Harvard University. 

 Rev. William J. Higgins, S. T. L., 



The Catholic University of America. 

 Frederick W. Hodge, 



The Bureau of American Ethnology. 

 James W. Holland, A.M., M.D., 



Jefferson Medical College. 

 William J. Holland, Ph.D., Sc.D., LL.D., 



The Carnegie Museum, 



The Carnegie Institute, 



The Entomological Society of London, 



The Entomological Society of Western Pennsylvania, 



The University of Pittsburgh. 

 Edmund Otis Hovey, Ph.D., 



The New York Academy of Sciences. 

 Leland 0. Howard, Ph.D., 



The American Association for the Advancement of Science, 



The Entomological Society of America, 



The American Association of Economic Entomologists, 



Societe Entomologique de France. 

 Marshall Avery Howe, Ph.D., 



The New York Botanic Garden. 

 W. H. Howell, M.D., LL.D., 



The American Physiological Society. 

 George S. Humphrey, 



Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences. 

 Herbert S. Jennings, A.M., Ph.D., LL.D., 



The American Society of Naturalists. 

 Charles W. Johnson, 



The Boston Society of Natural History. 

 Emory R. Johnson, M.L., Ph.D., 



The University of Wisconsin. 

 James Furman Kemp, Sc.D., 



Columbia University, 



Sociedad Cientifica Antonio Alzate. 

 William A. Lathrop, 



The American Institute of Mining Engineers. 

 Frederick S. Lee, A.M., Ph.D., 



The American Physiological Society. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xlvii 



F. L. Lewton, 



The Botanical Society of Washington. 

 William Libbey, A.M., Sc.D., 



The American Geographical Society. 

 Waldemar Lindgren, M.D., 



The Geological Society of Washington. 

 William A. Locy, Sc.D., 



Northwestern University. 

 Jacques Loeb, M.D., Sc.D., Ph.D., 



The University of California, 



Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. 

 Brita Long, 



Philadelphia High School for Girls. 

 Frederic A. Lucas, Sc.D., 



The American Museum of Natural History. 

 Samuel Black McCormick, LL.D., 



The University of Pittsburgh. 

 George G. MacCurdy, A.M., Ph.D., 



Ecole d'Anthropologie de Paris. 



American Anthropological Association. 

 John M. Macparlane, Sc.D., 



The Royal Society of Edinburgh, 



The Botanical Society of America. 

 R. Tait McKenzie, M.D., 



McGill University. 

 Chevalier J. C. Majoni, Royal Consul of Italy at Philadelphia. 



Societa Geografica Italiana, 



Reale Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. 

 John W. Mallet, LL.D., M.D., Ph.D., 



The University of Virginia, 



The Chemical Society of London. 

 Samuel J. Meltzer, M.D., LL.D., 



The American Physiological Society. 

 John Anthony Miller, A.M., Ph.D., 



Swarthmore College. 

 Charles Sedgwick Minot, Sc.D., LL.D., 



The American Association for the Advancement of Science, 



The University of Oxford, 



Reale Accademia della Scienze di Torino. 

 S. Weir Mitchell, M.D., LL.D., 



The College of Physicians of Philadelphia. 

 John R. Mohler, V.M.D., 



The Bureau of Animal Industries. 




xlviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Thomas H. Montgomery, Jr., Ph.D., 



The University of Texas, 



The Texas Academy of Sciences, 



The Marine Biological Laboratory, Wood's Hole. 

 Thomas L. Montgomery, 



The Wyoming Historical and Geological Society of Wilkes-Barre. 

 George T. Moore, Ph.D., 



The St. Louis Academy of Sciences, 



The Missouri Botanical Garden. 

 H. F. Moore, Ph.D., 



The United States Bureau of Fisheries. 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., 



Society Zoologique de France. 

 Edward L. Nichols, Ph.D., LL.D., 



Cornell University. 

 Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., Ph.D., Sc.D., 



The University of Notre Dame. 

 C. Edgar Ogden, 



The Delaware County Institute of Science. 

 Henry Fairfield Osborn, Sc.D., LL.D., 



The American Philosophical Society. 

 Samuel C. Palmer, 



Leland Stanford Junior University. 

 F. Payne, 



University of Indiana. 

 Hosiah Harmar Penniman, Ph.D., LL.D., 



University of Pennsylvania. 

 Edward Pennock, 



The American Microscopical Society. 

 Everett F. Phillips, Ph.D., 



The Bureau of Entomology. 

 H. Vladimir P. Polevoy, Secretary of the Imperial Russian Consulate 

 General, New York, 



Society for the Development of Experimental Sciences, Moscow. 

 Charles L. Pollard, A.M., 



Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences. 

 Henry S. Pratt, Ph.D., 



Haverford College. 

 Jean de Pulligny, 



Ecole Polytechnique. 

 Richard Rathbun, Sc.D., 



The Smithsonian Institution. 

 David Reesman, M.D., 



Philadelphia Pathological Society. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xlix 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. 

 Theodore W. Richards, A.M., LL.D., 



The University of Oxford. 

 J. T. Rorer, Ph.D., 



Colorado College. 

 Abbott Lawrence Rotch, A.M., 



The Boston Society of Natural History, 



The Appalachian Mountain Club of Boston, 



American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 

 John G. Rothermel, 



The Wagner Free Institute of Science. 

 William E. Safford, 



The Botanical Society of Washington. 

 L. E. Sayre, 



The Kansas Academy of Sciences. 

 H. L. Schantz, M.D., 



The American Microscopical Society. 

 Charles Schuchert, A.M., 



The Yale University Museum, 



The Connecticut Academy of Sciences. 

 William Berryman Scott, LL.D., Ph.D., Sc.D., 



Princeton University, 



The Geological Society of London. 

 Isaac Sharpless, Sc.D., LL.D., 



Haverford College. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 



Magyar Nemzeti Museum. 

 Alexander Smith, Ph.D., 



The Chemical Society of London. 

 Allen J. Smith, A.M., M.D., 



The Philadelphia Pathological Society. 

 Edgar Fahs Smith, LL.D., Ph.D., 



The University of Pennsylvania. 

 Leonard Stejneger, 



United States National Museum, 



Videnskab Selskabet i Kristiania. 

 Nettie M. Stevens, A.M., 



Leland Stanford Junior University. 

 J. J. Stevenson, A.M., LL.D., 



The Geological Society of America. 

 George B. Sud worth, 



The United States Forest Service. 



3* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., VOL. XV. 




1 PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Joseph Swain, M.S., LL.D., 



Swarthmore College, 



Leland Stanford Junior University. 

 Walter T. Swingle, M.D., 



Societe Botanique de France. 

 Charles H. Townsend, Hon. Sc.D., 



The New York Aquarium. 

 Frederick W. True, M.D., LL.D., 



The Smithsonian Institution. 

 Samuel M. Vauclain, 



The American Philosophical Society. 

 T. Wayland Vaughan, A.M., Ph.D., 



The Geological Society of Washington. 

 Madelene Verrie, 



Philadelphia High School for Girls. 

 Henry L. Viereck, 



The Entomological Society of Washington. 

 Charles D. Walcott, Sc.D., LL.D., 



The Smithsonian Institution, 



The Carnegie Institution of Washington, 



The American Philosophical Society. 

 John F. Wallace, 



The Western Society of Engineers. 

 R. M. Ward, M.D., 



The Royal Microscopical Society. 

 Ethelbert D. Warfield, LL.D., 



Lafayette College. 

 Joseph W. Warren, M.D., 



Bryn Mawr College. 

 Henry S. Washington, A.M., Ph.D., 



Reale Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli Zelanti di Acireale. 

 Thomas L. Watson, Ph.D., 



The Virginia Geological Survey. 

 Francis M. Webster, M.D., 



The Entomological Society of Ontario 

 J. H. M. Wedderburn, 



The Royal Society of Edinburgh. 

 William M. Wheeler, Ph.D., 



The Entomological Society of America. 

 Milton C. Whitaker, M.S., 



The University of Colorado. 

 Edward E. Wildman, 



The Philadelphia Central High School. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. li 



Joseph Willcox, 



The Wagner Free Institute of Science. 

 Arthur Willey, A.M., Sc.D., 



The Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom. 

 Allie W. Williams, M.D., 



The Surgeon-General's Office. 

 Gardner F. Williams, M.A., LL.D., 



The South African Association for the Advancement of Science. 

 Edmund B. Wilson, LL.D., Ph.D., Sc.D., M.D., 



The Society of American Zoologists. 

 William P. Wilson, Sc.D., 



The Philadelphia Commercial Museums. 




SELECTIONS FROM THE LETTERS RECEIVED IN RESPONSE TO THE 

 ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE CENTENARY CELEBRATION. 



academie royale des sciences, des lettres et des beaux 



Arts de Belgique. 



A l'Academie des Sciences naturelles a, Philadelphie : 



L'Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux Arts de Belgique 

 est tres sensible au grand honneur que vous lui avez fait en l'invitant a participer 

 au Jubile de l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie. Nous avons 

 recu d'elle, l'agreable mission de vous adresser ses remerciements et ses chal- 

 eureuses felicitations. 



Heureuse de rappeler les excellentes relations qu'elle a nouees avec elle 

 depuis pres d'un siecle, l'Academie Royale de Belgique comprend la legitime 

 fierte" avec laquelle l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Philadelphie doit 

 considerer son histoire durant les cent annes coul6es depuis sa fondation. II 

 lui suffit d'evoquer les noms des savants dont les nombreuses et importantes 

 publications ont paru dans vos Proceedings, dans votre Journal et, dans 

 vos Transactions of the American Entomological Society, pour apprecier 

 les services que votre illustre Acad^mie a rendus aux sciences naturelles dans 

 ses domaines les plus varies. 



Notre Academie s'associe done aux hommages qui seront rendus a votre 

 glorieux passe et aux voeux qui seront formes pour la continuation de votre 

 prosperite. 



Puisse votre Academie poursuivre le cours de sa belle et feconde carriere 

 pendant une longue suite d'annees! C'est le vceu le plus sincere que forme 

 l'Academie Royale de Belgique. 



Le Secretaire perptuel de l'Academie, 

 Le Chevalier Edmond Marchal. 



Bruxelles le 19 Mars, 1912. 



Hi 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. liii 



R. ACCADEMIA DI SciENZE, LETTERE ED ARTI IN PADOVA. 



Padova, li XXVIII, II, MCMXII. 



Amplissimo Viro Academiae Disciplinarum Naturalium Philadelphia? Praefecto S. : 



Cum pergratae nobis fuerint litterae tuae humanissimae, quibus nobis benigne 

 invitasti, ut Sollemnia saecularia, quibus Academia Vestra praeclarissima natalem 

 suura centesimum omnium cum plausu prosequitur, Vobiscum ipsi concelebrare- 

 mus, fieri sane non potest, quin et plurimas tibi gratias agamus et maximam 

 semper gratiam, ut debemus, habeamus. Cum vero id aegre ferendum sit, 

 quod Academia nostra per unum aliquem nostrorum sociorum Sollemnibus istis 

 faustissimis interesse non possit, hoc quidem profitemur, nos si non corporibus 

 at certe animis adfuturos esse, te, Vir optime atque honoratissime, cunctamque 

 Academiam istam nobilissimam cui tarn digne ipse praxes, bonis omnibus prose- 

 quentes, ut ad saluberrima artium liberalium omniumque disciplinarum incre- 

 menta et progressus communemque civilis consortii utilitatem omnia Vobis 

 fauste feliciter fortunateque eveniant. 



Nunc vero cum omnium collegarum verbis turn nostro nomine te summa 

 observantia colentes valere et salvere iubemus. 



Praeses 



V. Crescini 

 Secretarius 



A. Medin. 




liv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



I. R. ACCADEMIA DI SciENZE, LETTERE ED ARTI DEGLI AGIATI ROVERETO. 



Illustrissimo Sigr. Presidente della Accademia di Scienze naturali in Filadelfia: 



L'Accademia degli Agiati, onorata del gentile invito di intervenire alia 

 commemorazione del centenario della fondazione di codesta illustre Accademia, 

 prega rillustrissimo Sigr. Presidente a volerla rappresentare in occasione delle 

 feste del centenario, che rammentera l'opera data con efficace costanza al pro- 

 gresso delle scienze, dalla secolare Accademia di Filadelfia. 



Da parte nostra auguriamo alia consorella che le gloriose sue tradizioni del 

 passato, valgano a rinsaldare il lavoro e lo studio per il bene universale, nella 

 armonica cooperazione di tutti al fine comune. 



Noi gradiremo a suo tempo la relazione officiale della commemorazione 

 medesima; intanto preghiamo l'illustrissimo Sigr. Presidente e i congressisti a 

 voler gradire i sentimenti dei nostri piil distinti ossequi. 



Dall' Aula dell'I. R. Accademia degli Agiati Rovereto, li 28 Febbraio 1912. 



II Presidente: 



Dr. Probizer. 

 L'Accademico Segretario : 

 Postinger. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lv 



Akademia Umiejetno&ci w Krakowie. 



Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The President and Council of the Cracow Imperial Academy of Sciences 

 beg to offer The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia their sincere 

 thanks for the invitation which they have received to take part in the celebration 

 of its Centenary Anniversary. 



They have much pleasure in transmitting to The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, kindest wishes and felicitations on behalf of their own institution; 

 and they beg leave to express, on this opportunity, the feelings of keen sympathy 

 and high appreciation which the students of science in Poland entertain for the 

 work of that illustrious American corporation. 



St. Tarnowski, 



President, 

 Ulanowski, 



General Secretary. 

 Cracow, March 7th, 1912. 




Ivi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. Akademie van Wetenschappen te Amsterdam. 



The members of the Koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen at Amster- 

 dam welcome the opportunity afforded by the celebration of the Centenary of 

 the foundation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to send their 

 cordial greetings to their colleagues in America. 



During the past hundred years The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia has contributed generously to the progress of scientific thought and 

 has occupied a distinguished place among the institutions of a country which has 

 rapidly placed itself in the van of scientific research. 



The constantly increasing intercourse between the scientific world of America 

 and Europe is an earnest testimony of the growth of the spirit of good will and 

 friendly emulation which stimulates the march of progress in all departments 

 of scientific thought. 



It is in this spirit that the members of the Koninklijke Akademie of Amster- 

 dam express the confident hope that The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia will fulfil with equal distinction in the future as in the past its noble 

 mission of enlarging the domain of truth and knowledge. 



H. A. Lorentz, 



President. 



J. D. VAN DER WAALS, 



Secretary. 

 Amsterdam, March, 1912. 



Exquisitely engrossed and illuminated on folio sheet in a satin-lined cylindrical 

 case with gilt clasps. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lvii 



Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat, Freiburg i. Br. 



Freiburg i. Br., den 8. Marz 1912. 

 An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften von Philadelphia: 



Prorektor und Senat der Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg i. Br. danken 

 fur die freundliche Einladung zu der Jahrhundertfeier am 19-21. Marz. Zu 

 unserem lebhaften Bedauern mussen wir es uns versagen, an der bedeutsamen 

 Veranstaltung durch einen Delegierten vertreten zu sein, doch begleitet unsere 

 Universitat dieses Jubilaum, welches eine an Erfolgen reiche Periode in der 

 Entwickelung der naturwissenschaftlichen Akademie von Philadelphia ab- 

 schliesst, mit den warmsten Sympathien und ubermittelt der Akademie ihre 

 aufrichtigen Gluckwiinsche. 



Der Prorektor 

 Fabricius. 




lviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. Albertus-Universitat zu Konigsberg i Pr. 



Der Prorektor 

 der Koniglichen 

 Albertus-Universitat 



Konigsberg i. Pr. den 20 Februar, 1912. 



Der hochverehrten Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, beehre ich 

 mich im Namen und im Auftrage der Koniglichen Albertus-Universitat zu 

 Konigsberg in Preussen unseren ganz ergebensten Dank fur die gutige Einlad- 

 ung zu dem Sacular-Jubilaum auszusprechen. 



Leider ist es nicht moglich, einen Delegierten zu dem hohen Feste zu senden. 

 Es ist uns aber ein herzliches Bediirfnis, unseren innigen Wi'inschen wenigstens 

 schriftlich Ausdruck zu geben. 



Wer nur irgendwie Kenntnis der Naturwissenschaft besitzt, weiss die hohen 

 Verdienste Ihrer Akademie zu wurdigen. Gleich mehreren preussischen Uni- 

 vesitaten ist Ihre Akademie in schwerer, kriegerischer Zeit gegriindet worden. 

 Die ersten Mitglieder haben durch diese Stiftung in hervorragender Weise das 

 erhabene Wort betatigt, dass die Pflege der Wissenschaften nicht minder wie 

 der starke Arm des Kriegers zur wahren Bliite eines Staates gehort. Und dieser 

 Ideale, auf die Forschung gerichtete Sinn ist in Ihrer Akademie mit Treue gepflegt 

 und immer weiter ausgebildet worden. Von Ihrer Stadt, die schon in ihrem 

 Namen von einem auf die hochste Humanitat gerichteten Streben Zeugnis gibt, 

 ist eine Fiille wissenschaftlicher Erkenntnis ausgegangen; die Forschungen, die 

 Sie in Ihrem Journal und in Ihren Proceedings niedergelegt haben, sind das 

 Gemeingut der gelehrten Welt geworden. Moge Ihre ruhmreiche Akademie 

 noch viele Jahrhunderte bluhen und der Wissenschaft immer neue und reiche 

 Schiitze bescheeren und dadurch auch die innere unzerstorbare Gemeinsamkeit 

 der Nationen fordern. 



Die Albertus-Universitat wird alle Zeit mit Dankbarkeit und herzlicher 

 Sympathie der Academy of Natural Sciences gedenken. 



In ausgezeichnetster Verehrung 



ganz ergebenst. 



Krauske. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lix 



American Association for the Advancement of Science. 



Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D. C, 



March 16, 1912. 



The American Association for the Advancement of Science, through its 

 delegates appointed for this purpose, presents to The Academy of Natural Sci- 

 ences of Philadelphia its heartiest good wishes on the occasion of the celebration 

 of the Centenary Anniversary of the founding of the Academy. 



It further congratulates the Academy on the admirable work it has accom- 

 plished and upon its prospect for more good work in the future. 



By L. 0. Howard, 

 Permanent Secretary. 

 Through Delegates Appointed. 



American Association of Economic Entomologists. 



Dallas, Texas, March 11, 1912. 

 Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Sir: I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of the invitation of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to the American Association of 

 Economic Entomologists to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary cere- 

 monies soon to be held in Philadelphia. In behalf of this Association I desire 

 to thank the Academy for the honor of this invitation. 



From the beginning of its long and active career The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia has fostered and encouraged entomology. Many of the 

 most prominent contributors to the science in America have been connected 

 with the Academy. Many others who have played conspicuous parts in Amer- 

 ican economic entomology have received their inspiration from the work of the 

 Academy. In fact, there is not an entomologist in the United States who does 

 not, directly or indirectly, owe a debt of gratitude to the Academy. 



Doctor L. O. Howard, of Washington, has been requested to represent this 

 Association at the coming ceremonies and to express its good wishes, high appre- 

 ciation of the uniform good work it has done in the advancement of science, and 

 its hope that this work will continue to grow. 



Very respectfully 



W. D. Hunter, 



President. 




lx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



American Microscopical Society. 



The James Millikan University, Decatur, Ills., March 15, 1912. 

 The American Microscopical Society, in common with other similar societies 

 the world over, rejoices in the century of honorable and useful activity of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and extends to you its greetings 

 and congratulations on the completion of one hundred years of productive 

 effort. We confidently hope that the century upon which you are now entering 

 will be one of eminent success and influence. 



T. W. Galloway, 

 Secretary, American Microscopical Society. 



The American Museum of Natural History, New York. 



To the President and Board of Trustees of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, Greeting: 



The President and Board of Trustees of The American Museum of Natural 

 History, through their delegate, Doctor Frederic A. Lucas, desire to tender to 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, their congratulations on the 

 completion of a century of active and earnest work. 



In this, the New World, few institutions can claim so long a career as yours, 

 few are so important, none can number among its members a more brilliant 

 galaxy of men of science than that which includes the names of Morton, Wistar, 

 Leidy, and Cope. 



May the progress of the Academy be ever upwards, may its career be as 

 prosperous, as vigorous in the future as in the past; may it ever stand, as it has 

 done for an hundred years, for all that is best in the cause of science in America. 



Henry Fairfield Osborn, 



President. 

 Archer M. Huntington, 



Secretary. 

 New York City, March the eighteenth, 1912. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. Ixi 



American Philosophical Society. 



The American Philosophical Society to The Academy of Natural Sciences of 



Philadelphia, Greeting: 



The American Philosophical Society presents its heartiest congratulations on 

 this Hundredth Anniversary of the foundation of the Academy. A kindred 

 society recognizes the high purpose of the founders of the Academy, rejoices in 

 the tenacity with which that purpose has been fulfilled, and bespeaks a long 

 continuation of prosperity and usefulness for it. 



With much good will the American Philosophical Society sends representa- 

 tives to do honor to this Anniversary Celebration. 



Given at Philadelphia this nineteenth day of March in the year Nineteen 



Hundred and Twelve. 



William W. Keen, 



President. 

 Attest: I. Minis Hays, 

 Secretary. 

 Beautifully printed on a folio sheet. 



Ateneo Veneto. 



Venezia, li 23 February, 1912. 

 Honoured Sir: 



The Ateneo Veneto gratefully accepts the kind invitation of The Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, but, being unable to send a special deputy to 

 the celebration of your centenary festivities, we beg your illustrious President 

 to represent our Academy. 



A hundred years have lately elapsed since the foundation of the Ateneo 

 Veneto that has always been faithful to its scientific, artistic, and patriotic 

 programme, and it very gladly hails the Hundredth Anniversary of its sister 

 Academy, with hearty wishes for an ever prosperous, active, and fruitful life, like 

 that to which your acts (records) of these hundred years are witness. 

 With sincere congratulations and best respects, 



The President, 

 Filippo Nani Mocenigo. 

 To the Secretary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




lxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. BAYERISCHE AKADEMIE DER WlSSENSCHAFTEN. 



Miinchen, den 5 Marz 1912. 

 An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Die K. bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften bedauert, zur Hundert- 

 jahrfeier der altesten naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft der Vereinigten 

 Staaten keinen Vertreter schicken zu konnen. Verknlipfen sie doch mit ihr 

 nicht nur die allgemeinen, volkerverbindenden Interessen der Wissenschaft, 

 sondern auch seit vielen Jahren ein reger, stets mit Freude entgegengenommener 

 Austausch der Gelehrten Schriften. 



Die K. bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften begliickwunscht die Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences zu der eifrigen Arbeit, die sie in ihren Proceedings 

 und Journal seit langem fur die Wissenschaft leistet und wlinscht ihr eine 

 gedeihliche und kraftige Weiterentwicklung. 



Mit ausgezeichneter Hochachtung, 



Dr. von Heigel, 



President. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxiii 



BOTANISCHER VEREIN DER PrOVINZ BRANDENBURG. 



Dahlem, den 7 Miirz, 1912. 

 Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia dankt der Botanische Verein 

 der Provinz Brandenburg verbindlichst fur die Einladung zur Feier des lOOjahr- 

 igen Bestehens der Akademie. 



Bei Eintritt eines so seltenen Festes setzen Freunde sowie Vertreter be- 

 freundeter Gesellschaften eine Ehre darein im Kreise der feiernden Korperschaft 

 personlich zu erscheinen. Leider kann jedoch zur Zeit kein Mitglied des botan- 

 ischen Vereins es ermoglichen, die grosse Entfernung zwischen den Sitzen beider 

 Korperschaften zu iiberwinden und der Akademie an ihrem Ehrentage die 

 Gliickwunsche des Vereins mlindlich darzubringen. Deshalb bittet der Verein, 

 der seit langen Jahren in den freundschaftlichsten Beziehungen zu der Akademie 

 steht und seine Schriften mit den ihrigen tauscht, ihr durch dieses Schreiben die 

 herzlichsten und aufrichtigsten Wlinsche aussprechen zu diirfen flir ihr weiteres 

 Gedeihen, fiir immer grossere und erfolgreichere Ausdehnung ihrer Arbeiten und 

 Bestrebungen. Denn wie in der Natur selbst nichts still steht, sondern alles 

 sich standig zu entwickeln strebt, so streben auch die naturwissenschaftlichen 

 Gesellschaften dauernd danach, sich immer reicher zu entfalten, immer neuen, 

 umfassenderen Aufgaben sich zu widmen, immer hohere Ziele sich zu stecken. 



Die von der Akademie seit 100 Jahren geleistete, auf den verschiedensten 

 Gebieten so erfolgreiche Arbeit biirgt dafiir, dass sie in ihrer Bedeutung immer 

 zunehmen, dass sie die wissenschaftliche Welt auch ferner mit vielen wertvollen 

 Leistungen beschenken und bereichern wird. Der botanische Verein sieht 

 zwar seine Hauptaufgabe darin, seine Heimatprovinz botanisch zu erforschen, er 

 ist sich aber stets bewusst gewesen, dass er diese Aufgabe ohne standige Fiihlung 

 mit der Botanik nicht bios, sondern auch mit der gesamten Naturwissenschaft 

 nicht in befriedigender Weise erfiillen kann. Deshalb weiss er die weit umfas- 

 sendere Tatigkeit der Akademie sehr wohl zu schiitzen und zu wiirdigen, und es 

 wird ihm zur freudigen Genugtuung gereichen, wenn er auch in Zukunft aus seiner 

 Beziehungen zu einer so alten und angesehenen Korperschaft Nutzen Ziehen und 

 ihr zeigen darf, wie wertvoll ihm diese alte freundschaftliche Verbindung ist. 



Die Akademie zu Philadelphia m6ge wachsen, bliihen und gedeihen. 



Der Vorstand des Botanischen Vereins der Provinz Brandenburg J. A. 



Emil Koehne. 




lxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



British Museum of Natural History. 



Cromwell Road, London, S. W. 



The British Museum of Natural History, London, hereby conveys to The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its warmest congratulations on the 

 occasion of the celebration of the Academy's Centenary Anniversary. The 

 British Museum of Natural History extends to the Academy the most sincere 

 wishes for the future prosperity and well-being of the Academy and its earnest 

 desire that the very friendly relations which have so long existed between the 

 two institutions may be maintained and strengthened as the years go by for 

 their mutual benefit and the cultivation of the natural sciences. 



In the regretted absence of a representative the British Museum of Natural 

 History hopes that The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia will accept 

 this assurance of the cordial good will of the Museum. 



L. Fletcher, 

 Director. 



March 13, 1912. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. Ixv 



Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. 



February 14, 1912. 

 Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Dear Sir: 



At a meeting of the Board of Managers of the Buffalo Society of Natural 

 Sciences, held Friday evening, February 9, 1912, your courteous invitation 

 to the Society that it should be represented at the One Hundredth Anni- 

 versary of the founding of your Academy was presented to the Board and the 

 following resolution was unanimously adopted: Resolved: That this Society 

 extend to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia its most hearty con- 

 gratulations upon the near approaching Centenary Anniversary of its founding 

 and with such congratulations to express the sincere feeling of respect and 

 appreciation which, in common with all workers in natural science, this Society 

 feels for the splendid and valuable work accomplished by the Academy during 

 the one hundred years of its useful existence and to bespeak for it a further long 

 continuance of its active and honorable life. 



By direction of the Board it gives me great pleasure to transmit to you this 

 resolution which now appears upon our minutes. 



Very respectfully yours, 



Henry R. Howland, 

 Superintendent, Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences. 



Bureau of Entomology, United States Department of Agriculture. 



Washington, D. C, March 16, 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Pa. 



All the members of the staff of the Bureau of Entomology of the United States 

 Department of Agriculture join in hearty congratulations to the Academy on the 

 occasion of its celebration on its One-hundredth Birthday. No body of men 

 appreciates more highly the high character of the work done by the Academy 

 than does this force, and none can congratulate the Academy more heartily on 

 its present commanding position in the field of American Science. 



For the Bureau, 



L. O. Howard, 



Chief. 



4* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., VOL XV 




lxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



The Canadian Institute. 



198 College St., Toronto, March 16, 1912. 

 Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia. 

 Dear Sir: 



I beg to thank you for your kind invitation to the Canadian Institute to 

 be represented at the Centenary Anniversary of the Academy, and I greatly 

 regret that it is impossible for me or any of my associates to be present with you. 

 You have had a long and successful career, and the President and Members 

 of the Canadian Institute extend you most hearty greetings, with the hope that 

 your future achievements may not only equal, but may far outdo, your accom- 

 plishments in the past. 



Yours sincerely, 



J. B. Tyrrell, 

 President, Canadian Institute. 



Carnegie Institution of Washington. 



The Trustees and the Investigators of the Carnegie Institution of Washington 

 extend greetings and congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia on the occasion of the celebration of its One hundredth Anniversary. 



The century of progress achieved by the Academy in the cultivation of the 

 Natural Sciences commands admiration for the devotion of our predecessors, 

 gives confidence in the fruitfulness of the labors of our contemporaries, and 

 warrants sanguine expectations for continued advances by our successors. 



Robert S. Woodward, 

 President. 



On a beautifully engrossed and illuminated sheet. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxvii 



The Carnegie Museum (Department of the Carnegie Institute). 



Pittsburgh, March 19, 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



On behalf of the Carnegie Museum, which represents at the headwaters of 

 the Ohio the same forms of activity which are represented by The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences upon the banks of the Delaware, we have the honor of extending 

 our sincere congratulations upon your first Centenary, and we desire to express 

 the hope that many centenaries, as fruitful as has been the first, may follow. 

 We have with pride caused to be carved upon our walls, where all can read it, 

 the name of your own honored and immortal Leidy, for whose achievements we 

 are no less grateful than you. 



Geo. H. Clapp, 

 Chairman of the Committee of the Institute upon the Affairs of the Museum, 



W. J. Holland, 



Director. 

 Beautifully engrossed. 



The Catholic University of America. 



Office of the Rector, 

 The Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. 

 The Catholic University of America sends its heartiest congratulations to 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the cele- 

 bration of its first Centenary. The foundation of the Academy is probably 

 the most important event in the history of American science, since it marks 

 the initial steps in the path of intellectual and material development that has 

 kept ever broadening until it has become one of the world's splendid highways of 

 progress and culture. We are certain that in the century to come the Academy 

 will continue its noble work of inspiration and encouragement in the vast province 

 of the natural sciences; above all that it will help materially to keep them corre- 

 lated to all that is truly beautiful and uplifting in the social, political, and religious 

 life of our American mankind. 



With best wishes, I remain, 



Very sincerely yours, 



Thomas J. Shahan, 

 Rector. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




lxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Ceska Akademie CfSARE Frantiska Josefa pro vedy, slovesnost a umeni. 



Imperatoris Francisci Josephi Academia Scientiarum, litterarum, artium 

 Bohemica Societati Naturalium Scientiarum Philadelphiensi S. P. D. 



Centum anni peracti sunt, ex quo nata est celeberrima Societas Vestra. 

 Per hoc omne temporis spatium sodales Societatis Vestra? multa et magna 

 strenui laboris, studii doctissimi, acuminis admirandi ediderunt documenta 

 scriptisque egregiis non solum de Vestrse Societatis laude et gloria, sed etiam de 

 universi generis humani litteris et artibus optime meruerunt. 



Quapropter iure ac merito memoriam originis Societatis Vestrse hoc anno 

 recolitis et natales eius centesimos per hosce dies sollemniter celebratis. Cui 

 sollemni cum adesse, id quod magnopere dolemus, non possimus per litteras 

 saltern Vos, viros doctissimos salvere iubemus, vere et ex animo precantes, ut 

 Societati Scientiarum Naturalium Philadelphiensi etiam proximis temporibus 

 cuncta prosperrime eveniant eiusque nomen et gloria per omnes gentes terrasque 

 in dies crescat atque augeatur. 



Dabamus Pragae in Bohemia Kal. Martiis MCMXII. 



A. Randa 

 praeses Academise. 

 C. Vrba 

 Secretarius Academise. 



Beautifully illuminated and engrossed on folded sheet. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxix 



C. K. Ceska Universita Karlo-Ferdinandova v Praze. 



No. 776, Sen. 1911-12. 

 The Imperial and Royal Czech Charles and Ferdinand University of Prague, 

 the oldest University of Central Europe, sends to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, on the eve of the day on which the Academy will have 

 completed one hundred years of its activity, the most hearty salutations and 

 sincere congratulations. May the illustrious Academy flourish and prosper 

 through many centuries to the advantage of Science and to the benefit of the 

 American nation and the whole of humanity. 



Dated in Prague this Fifth day of March, 1912, in the five hundred and sixty- 

 fourth year from the foundation of the Charles and Ferdinand University. 



J. Celakovsky, 

 Rector of the University. 

 J. Cech, 

 Chief Clerk of the University. 



Cincinnati Society of Natural History. 



Cincinnati, 0., Feb. 10, 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Cincinnati Society of Natural History has received your invitation to be 

 present at the celebration of your Centenary Anniversary. The Society highly 

 appreciates the honor conferred. We certainly feel the most profound respect 

 and admiration for your venerable institution, not only because of the illustrious 

 students who have been associated with it, but also because of the high character 

 of the scientific work with which you have enriched the field of natural history 

 in America. 



Accept our sincere congratulations. 



Chas. Dury, 



Secretary. 




lxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



College of Physicians of Philadelphia. 



The College of Physicians of Philadelphia brings greetings to The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and presents its congratulations on this the 

 Centenary of its Foundation. 



The College is proud of the brilliant record of the Academy in these hundred 

 years, rejoicing that among its members are a number, and some of its most 

 distinguished, who were also Fellows of the College. 



Both claim the immortal Leidy, though the College grants that the Academy 

 was the object of his fondest love and reflected his greater glory. 



The College hopes that this century of growth which finds the Academy so 



strong and vigorous may be succeeded by many others full of honor for itself 



and rich in benefits to all mankind. 



Richard A. Cleeman, 



Delegate from the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. 

 March 19, 1912. 

 Engrossed. 



Conservatoire et Jardins Botaniques (Herbier Delessert). 



La Console, Route de Lausanne, 92, Ville de Geneve, 1 Mars, 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : 



Monsieur le President et Messieurs: 



La distance ne nous permet malheureussment pas de reponde a l'aimable 

 invitation que vous nous avez adressee pour le Centenaire de votre Academie. 



Nous n'en tenons pas moins a vous dire votre admiration pour les beaux 

 travaux scientifiques executes depuis un siecle au sein de votre Academie, et a 

 vous presenter nos voeux les plus chaleureux pour la brillante continuation de 

 ses efforts. 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President et Messieurs, l'expression de notre 



haute consideration. 



Dr. John Briquet, 



Directeur. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxi 



Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft. 



Berlin, im Marz 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Der hochverehrten Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sprechen 

 wir fur die uns ehrende Einladung zur Hundertjahrfeier unseren verbindlichsten 

 Dank aus. Wenn wir auch nicht in der Lage sind, zu Ihrem Jubelfest einen 

 Vertreter unserer Gesellschaft zu senden, so werden wir doch in den Tagen vom 

 19. bis 21. Marz dieses Jahres mit unseren Gedanken bei Ihnen sein und Ihnen 

 unsere herzlichsten Gluckwvinsche widmen. 



Die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ist die alteste natur- 

 wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft der Vereinigten Staaten Nordamerikas und sie 

 hat an dem grofsen Aufschwung, den die Naturwissenschaften in dem ver- 

 flossenen Jahrhundert erlebt haben, einen sehr bedeutenden Anteil gehabt. 



Durch die Schaffung einer ausgezeichneten Bibliothek, durch die Begrtindung 

 eines hervorragenden naturwissenschaftlichen Museums, durch die Veroffent- 

 lichung bedeutsamer Arbeiten, die seit dem Jahre 1817 im Journal und 

 ausserdem seit 1841 in den Proceedings erschienen sind, sowie durch die 

 Verleihung von Stipendien an junge Gelehrte hat Ihre Gesellschaft die Natur- 

 wissenschaften in hohem Grade gefordert. 



Indem wir dies dankbar anerkennen, wiinschen wir Ihrer Academy fur 

 das neue Jahrhundert, in das sie nun eintritt, ein kraftiges Bluhen, Wachsen und 

 Gedeihen! 



Im Namen der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft zu Berlin, 



F. Wahnschaffe, 



Vorsitzender. 




lxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Deutscher Naturwissenschaftlich-Medizinischer Verein 



FUR BoHMEN LOTOS. 



Der Deutsch. Naturwiss. Medizin. Verein fur Bohmen AHTOS in Prag 

 sendet der ehrwurdigen Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia anlasslich 

 der hundertsten Wiederkehr ihres Griindungstages, wlirdigend die Verdienste, 

 die sich Dieselbe in dieser Zeit als hervorragende Stiitze und rastlose Pflegerin 

 der Naturwissenschaften erworben hat, die besten Wunsche fur die Zukunft und 

 ein ebenso erfolgreiches Wirken ad aeternum ! 



Prof. Dr. R. Spitaler, 



m. p. 

 Doc. Dr. L. Freund, 



m. p. 

 Prag, den 5 Marz 1912. 

 Beautifully printed on an ornamented sheet. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxiii 



Entomological Society of London. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



On behalf of the Entomological Society of London we offer you sincere 

 congratulations on the completion of one hundred years of distinguished and 

 fruitful labour in the cause of Science, and assure you that we appreciate, and 

 have accepted with gratitude, the honour of being represented at the Conference 

 to which you have invited us. 



The Centenary of a great scientific institution cannot but arouse some 

 amount of sympathetic interest in every association of scientific workers, but 

 we feel that, as entomologists, we have special reason to be interested in the 

 fortunes of your Academy, since we understand that for many years our favorite 

 branch of natural science has received from it no small share of valuable en- 

 couragement and support; that in 1875 our sister society, first known as The 

 Entomological Society of Philadelphia, received permission to assemble under 

 your hospitable roof; and that subsequently it became incorporated as a Section 

 of the Academy itself. 



In all sincerity, and as no mere formal compliment, we are glad to offer you 

 this tribute to our gratitude, respect, and good will, and to express the hope that 

 the future of your Academy may be as useful and as honorable as its past. 



Francis David Morice, 



President Ent. Soc. London, 

 Albert Hugh Jones, 

 Jno. Hartley Durrant, 



Vice-Presidents, 

 James J. Walker, 

 George Wheeler, 

 Hon. Secretaries. 

 London, March 13, 1912. 

 Engrossed on parchment. 




lxxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



The Entomological Society of Washington, 



United States National Museum, Washington, D. C, February 19, 1912. 



The Academy of Natural Science of Philadelphia. 

 Gentlemen : 



In the spirit of admiration and fraternity the Entomological Society of 

 Washington welcomes the opportunity to present its heartiest congratulations 

 to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the cele- 

 bration of its one hundred years of activity. 



Without the fostering care of the Academy, Thomas Say, the father of 

 American entomology, could never have prepared and published his descriptions. 

 The share of the Academy in supporting Say in his work of describing American 

 insects in America will always be gratefully remembered by entomologists. 



As an entomologist turns the pages of the early volumes of the Academy and 

 sees the names of Say, the two Lecontes, Haldeman, Clemens, Melsheimer, 

 Uhler, Ziegler, Osten Sacken, and Crotch, he recognizes the beneficence of the 

 Academy in providing a medium for publication before there were any entomo- 

 logical journals. The appearance of these papers under the auspices of the 

 Academy gave them an appreciation abroad that they would not otherwise 

 have enjoyed. And today, when there are many entomological journals, the 

 pages of the Proceedings of the Academy are freely used for the publication 

 of entomological articles. 



The Academy was the first institution in America to offer accommodations 

 for insect collections; and now that its benign influence shelters the priceless 

 collections of the American Entomological Society, it has become one of the 

 few shrines that every entomologist loves to visit, and none more than the 

 members of the Entomological Society of Washington appreciate the entomo- 

 logical usefulness of the Academy, and wish it a long and increasingly successful 

 career. 



Very sincerely, 



A. L. QUAINTANCE, 



President. 

 S. A. Rohwer, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxv 



Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania. 



The Franklin Institute of the State of Pennsylvania, for the promotion of the 



Mechanic Arts, to the President, Council, and Members of The Academy 



of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



It is with intimate and sincere satisfaction that the President, Officers and 



Members of the Franklin Institute embrace this opportunity of extending to you 



their warm congratulations upon the completion of a century of brilliant and 



useful work in the wide domain of Natural Science. Organized twelve years 



later for the promotion of Physical Science and its application in the Arts, and 



similarly environed, this Institute has shared with you the intelligent and 



sustained support of the citizens of Philadelphia, and it is from this support, 



generously continued, that we confidently look forward to even greater successes 



for you in the future, than those which have marked your splendid past. 



Henry Howson, 



President. 



R. B. Owens, 



Secretary. 

 Philadelphia, March 19, 1912. 



Beautifully engrossed on ornamented sheet. 




lxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. Frederiks Universitet, Kristiania. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : 



The Royal Frederik University of Christiania, Norway, has the honor to 

 acknowledge receipt of the invitation of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia to be represented at the Centenary Anniversary of said Academy on 

 the 19th, 20th, and 21st of March of this year, and to express high appreciation 

 of the courteous attention. 



Minister Helmer Bryn, LL.B. of our University, Norwegian Minister in the 

 United States of America, Washington, D. C, has been chosen as the repre- 

 sentative of our University to be present on the aforesaid occasion. 



We also take advantage of the opportunity to convey our best wishes for 



the prosperity and welfare of the venerable Academy of Natural Sciences, and 



to express our conviction that it will be in the future, as it has been in the past, 



one of the justly distinguished institutions of Science of the Republic. 



Bredo Morgenstierne, 



Rector. 



Ch. Aug. Orland, 



Secretary. 

 Christiania, February 18, 1912. 



Printed on folded sheet in a crimson leather ornamented portfolio. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. Ixxvii 



Royal Geographical Society. 



1, Savile Row, Burlington Gardens, London, W., February 14, 1912. 

 To the President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Sir: 



On my own behalf as President, and on behalf of the Council of the Royal 

 Geographical Society, I beg to offer you our warmest congratulations on the 

 celebration of the Centenary of the foundation of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



It reflects the highest credit on the United States of America that so early 

 in its career as an independent State, an institution should have been established 

 for the pursuit of natural knowledge, and as a centre of culture and enlighten- 

 ment, in the midst of a population which was naturally strenuous in the develop- 

 ment of the material resources of a great country. The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia soon achieved and has throughout maintained a position 

 as one of the great scientific societies of the world, and its publications contain 

 many contributions of original value in the various departments of scientific 

 investigation, as well as of practical importance to humanity at large and to 

 America in particular. 



Our earnest wish is that the Academy may long continue to carry out with 

 as much success as in the past, its beneficent services to science and to its country. 



I have the honour to be, Sir, 



Yours most sincerely, 



CURZON OF KEDLESTON, 



President, Royal Geographical Society. 




Ixxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Geographical Society of Philadelphia. 



400 Witherspoon Bldg., Philadelphia, March 1, 1912. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., President, The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, Pa. 



Sir: 



On behalf of the Council of the Geographical Society of Philadelphia, I 

 beg to present respectful greetings and congratulations on the occasion of the 

 Centenary Celebration of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Recalling the fact that our own society was organized twenty-two years ago 

 under the name of the Geographical Club by officers and members of the Acad- 

 emy, and had its home for years within the walls of your institution we have 

 viewed with filial pride the continued distinction, usefulness, and prosperity of 

 the Academy. 



In the hope that the Academy will continue to represent the best traditions 

 of scientific scholarship and achievement in Philadelphia and may extend its 

 field of usefulness in this community, I beg to remain, Sir, 



Very sincerely yours, 



Emory R. Johnson, 

 President, Geographical Society of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxix 

 K. K. Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien. 



Presidium der K. K. Geographischen Gesellschaft 



in Wien, I., Wollzeile 33. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Das Presidium der k. k. Geographischen Gesellschaft dankt verbindlich fur 

 die freundliche Einladung zur Feier des hundertjahrigen Bestandes der sehr 

 geehrten Akademie und bedauert mitteilen zu miissen, dass leider Niemand aus 

 dem Collegium in der Lage sich befindet, dieser Einladung Folge zu leisten und 

 an dieser erhebenden Feier personlich teilzunehmen. 



Das gefertigte Presidium beehrt sich daher die verehrte Akademie zu 

 ihrer hundertjahrigen Jubelfeier schriftlich zu begluckwunschen und dem 

 Wunsche Ausdruck zu geben, dass die Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia mit gleichen Erfolgen weiter wirken moge zum Besten der Naturwissen- 

 schaf ten ! 



Der Prasident: 

 Prof. Eugen Oberhummer 

 Der General-Sekretar : 

 Dr. Gallina. 

 Wien, am 4. Marx 1912. 



Geological Society of America. 



The Geological Society of America sends heartiest congratulations to The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of its Centennial 

 Celebration. 



As we recall the great services rendered by members of the Academy to 

 geology and related branches of science, we are moved to express the hope that 

 this close of the first century is but the beginning of your youth, and that you 

 may long continue to contribute to the advancement of knowledge. 



H. L. Fairchild, 



President, 

 Edmund Otis Hovey, 

 Secretary. 

 New York, 19 March, 1912. 




lxxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, Wien. 



Die kaiserliche konigliche Geologische Reichsanstalt begriisst auf das herz- 

 lichste die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia zur Feier ihres hundert- 

 jahrigen Bestandes und begliickwunscht dieselbe zu der Summe von Arbeit, 

 welche wahrend dieses Zeitraumes geleistet worden ist, in der Hoffnung, dass 

 die Bestrebungen der Akademie in weiterer Zukunft von gleichem Erfolge be- 

 gleitet sein werden. 



Der Direktor, 

 Dr. Emil Tietze. 



Wien, im Marz 1912. 



Beautifully engrossed on artistically decorated folio sheet. 



Geologists' Association of London. 



University College, London. 



The Geologists' Association of London which has recently celebrated its 50th 



Anniversary sends its cordial Greetings to The Academy of Natural Sciences of 



Philadelphia on the completion of a hundred years of its successful existence 



during the course of which its publications have made known to the world 



numerous and important contributions to every branch of Natural History 



including Palaeontology in which, as is natural, this Association feels most 



keenly its indebtedness to the good work which the Academy has done. 



John W. Evans, 



President. 

 9th March, 1912. 



Engrossed on parchment 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxxi 



K. Geologische Landesanstalt, Berlin. 



Invalidenstrasse 44, Berlin, den 4 Marz 1912. 



Die Koniglich Preussische Geologische Landesanstalt begriisst von ganzem 

 Herzen die altehrwiirdige Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zu Philadelphia 

 zur Feier ihres hundertjahrigen Bestehens und bringt ihr dazu die besten Wiin- 

 sche dar fur eine weitere erspriessliche Tatigkeit zum Nutzen der gesamten 

 Naturwissenschaft und des von uns besonders gepflegten Zweiges der Geologic 

 In den langen Reihen der von der Akademie veroffentlichten Proceedings und 

 des Journal sind eine ungewohnlich grosse Zahl von Arbeiten aus dem Gebiete 

 der Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaontologie veroffentlicht worden und die 

 scharfsinnigsten Geister, die feinsten Kopfe der nordamerikanischen Gelehrten- 

 republik, Manner wie Cope, Leidy, Frazer, Heilprin, Osborn, Genth, und viele 

 andere durfte die Akademie zu den ihren zahlen. Durch die Griindung einer 

 selbst fur die grossziigigen Verhaltnisse der Union hervorragenden Bibliothek und 

 Sammlung hat die Akademie zur Forderung der Wissenschaft beigetragen und 

 durch die Gewahrung reicher Geldmittel manches wissenschaftliche Unterneh- 

 men, manche erfolgreiche Forschungsexpedition in die Wege geleitet. So 

 konnen auch wir nur mit den grossten Sympathien der Tatigkeit der Akademie 

 im abgelaufenen Jahrhundert gedenken und mit den lebhaftesten Wunschen 

 ihre weitere Entwickelung in der Zukunft begleiten. Gluckauf. 



Der Direktor 

 Beyschlag 



An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zu Philadelphia. 



(.* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. l'HILA. VOL. XV. 




lxxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Georg-August-Universitat, Gottingen. 

 Der Prorektor 



DER 



Georg August-Universitat. 



Gottingen, den 2. Marz, 1912. 



Der Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia sendet zur Feier ihres 

 100 Jahr-Bestehens die Georg-August-Universitat in Gottingen ihre ehrerbietigen 

 und herzlichen Gliickwunsche. 



Sie gedenkt dabei in aufrichtiger Sympathie der zahlreichen Faden, welche 

 die wissenschaftliche Forschung und Lehre in Nordamerika mit den gleichen 

 Arbeiten in Deutschland verknupfen, und spricht die Hoffnung aus, dass diese 

 Faden durch die Entwicklung des zweiten Jahrhunderts im Leben der Academy 

 nur noch gefestigt werden mochten. Sie wiinscht der Academy, die an ehrwur- 

 digem Alter an der Spitze aller wissenschaftlichen Korperschaften der United 

 States steht, ein weiteres jugendliches Bliihen und Gedeihen zur Forderung der 

 Wissenschaft, zu deren Dienst sich alle Kulturvolker vereinigt haben. 



Voigt. 



An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxxiii 



K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen. 



Gottingen, den 6 Marz 1912. 



Der hochansehnlichen Academy of Natural Sciences danken wir verbindlichst 

 fiir die Anzeige, dass diese Academie die Jahrhundertfeier ihrer Stiftung begehen 

 wird, und fiir die sehr geschatzte Einladung, mit der sie uns zur Teilnahme an 

 dieser Feier beehrt hat. 



Neben die altere Philosophische Gesellschaft in Philadelphia trat vor einem 

 Jahrhundert die Academie fiir Naturwissenschaften mit der bestimmten Aufgabe 

 an der kraftig einsetzenden Arbeit fiir die Erkennung der Naturerscheinungen, 

 die ein einigendes Band der gleichstrebenden Volker wurde, zielbewusst und 

 erfolgreich teilzunehmen. Und wenige Jahre danach brachte sie den Erfolg 

 solcher Arbeit mit dem ersten Bande ihrer Veroffentlichungen, deren ununter- 

 brochene Reihe durch das Jahrhundert von dem werktatigen Leben der Genos- 

 senschaft wissenschaftlicher Manner Zeugnis gegeben hat. Durch langjahrigen 

 Schriftenaustausch mit ihr verbunden, hat unsere Gesellschaft von dort Belehrung 

 und Anregung erhalten. Dankbar fiir solche Verbindung bringen wir heute der 

 jubilirenden Akademie zu einer erfolgreichen Zukunft fiir die die Vergangenheit 

 zuverlassige Biirgerschaft bietet, die aufrichtigsten Gliickwiinsche. 



Der Vorsitzende Sekretar 

 E. Ehlers. 



An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




lxxxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften-Stiftung Heinrich Lanz. 



Der altehrwiirdigen Akademie der Naturwissenschaften in Philadelphia, welche 

 der erst vor wenigen Jahren durch den Edelsinn eines Badischen Grossindus- 

 triellen gegriindeten Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaf ten die Ehre erwiesen, 

 sie zu ihren Jubilaumsfestlichkeiten einzuladen, senden wir herzlichen Dank 

 und besten Gliickwunsch. Moge es Ihrer Akademie, deren hochverehrte For- 

 scher im Laufe des vorigen Jahrhunderts so viel zu dem wunderbaren Emporbliihen 

 der Naturwissenschaften und dem rastlosen Fortschreiten genialer Technik 

 beigetragen haben, auch ferner vergonnt sein, Ihr grosses und in seiner modernen 

 Entwicklung bewundertes Land in enger Verbindung mit den Instituten und 

 gelehrten Gesellschaften Deutschlands, welche in die Pflege der Naturwissen- 

 schaften ihren Stolz setzen, an der Entwicklung des Menschengeschlechts ruhm- 

 reichen Anteil nehmen zu lassen. 



In Verehrung 



Leo Koenigsberger, 

 geschaftsfuhrender Secretar. 



Heidelberg, den 2. Marz 1912. 



Hrvatsko Naravoslovno Drustvo. 



Zagreb, dne 22-II 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : 



We return our best thanks for your kind invitation to your remarkable 

 festival. We are very sorry for not being able to be witnesses through our 

 representatives of your magnificent festival of civilization and sciences, and 

 therefore we take the liberty in this way to congratulate the Academy and express 

 our hope that the Academy will successfully continue its useful activity for the 

 welfare of mankind and advancement of the international sciences. 



Dr. L. Car, 



President. 



IVANU KRMPOTICU, 



Secretary. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxxv 

 Institut Oceanographique. 



Fondation Albert Ier, Prince de Monaco, Monaco, le 29 1 1912. 



Monsieur : 



Je m'empresse de vous accuser reception de l'invitation adress^e au Mus6e 

 oceanographique de Monaco de se faire representer a, la ceremonie du centenaire 

 de The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. Je vous prie de vouloir 

 bien transmettre a l'Academie les sinceres remerciements du Musee oceano- 

 graphique pour l'honneur qui lui est ainsi fait; le Musee regrette de ne pouvoir 

 envoyer a, Philadelphie, a cette occasion, un de ses representants, mais il vous 

 prie de vouloir bien offrir en son nom, a l'Acad6mie, ses meilleurs souhaits de 

 prosperite et ses plus vives felicitations a l'occasion de son centenaire, sans oublier 

 la manifestation du desir de voir continuer dans l'avenir, comme par le passe\ les 

 meilleures relations entre l'Academie et le Musee oceanographique. 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur, l'expression de mes sentiments les plus distingue^. 



Le Directeur 

 J. Richard. 



To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Science of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Institut Pasteur. 



25, Rue Dutot, Paris, le 8 Mars 1912. 

 A Monsieur le President de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphia. 



Monsieur le President: Le Conseil de lTnstitut est tres honore de l'invitation 

 que vous lui adressez de se faire representer a la celebration du centenaire de 

 l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie. Je regrette que les exigences 

 de l'enseignement empechent l'un de ses membres de se rendre aux Etats Unis 

 pour porter a votre illustre Compagnie, les felicitations meritees par un siecle de 

 devouement a la Science. Je me charge de vous exprimer la gratitude qu'il 

 eprouve pour une association qui s'est consacree a la recherche de la verite" avec 

 tant de perseverance, et de profit pour l'humanite, ainsi que les voeux qu'il forme 

 pour la prosperity de votre Academic 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, l'hommage de ma consideration tres 



distinguee, 



Dr. Roux. 




lxxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Kansas Academy of Science. 



Topeka, Kansas. 

 Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 My dear Sir: 



Through the Kansas Academy of Science I have the honor of receiving an 

 official appointment as delegate to the One-Hundredth Anniversary of The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



As an old Philadelphian, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to be 

 present at this gathering and to participate in the most worthy celebration. 

 But recent accumulation of work connected with the University has compelled 

 me, very reluctantly, to abandon the idea of personally attending and to forego 

 the pleasure of listening to the various addresses that will be delivered as part 

 of the proposed celebration. 



The Kansas Academy of Science extends to the Academy its hearty con- 

 gratulations. I have the honor to express the wishes of our members that this 

 important occasion will be a delightful and happy one. We trust that the 

 Academy will receive an assurance of even greater support for its future, as its 

 existence has been an inspiration for numerous subordinate organizations in 

 this country. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia is looked up to 

 as the Mother-organization. 



Sincerely j'ours 



L. E. Sayre, 

 Dean, School of Pharmacy, University of Kansas, 

 Representing the Kansas Academy of Science. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxxvii 



Kosmos Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde Stuttgart. 



Am 24. Februar 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 Sehr geehrte Herren: 



Erlauben Sie uns, Ihnen zu der Hundertjahrfeier vom 19. bis 21. Marz d. 

 Jhrs. unsern herzlichsten Gliickwunsch auszusprechen. 



Mit Freuden haben wir das stete Wachsen Ihrer Academy und ihr erf olgreiches 

 Arbeiten, das demselben hohen Zwecke diente, in dessen Dienst auch wir uns 

 gestellt haben, verfolgt. 



Wir fugen noch unsern verbindlichsten Dank fur Ihre liebenswiirdige Ein- 

 ladung bei und bedauern nur, dass die Wasserflache des Atlantischen Ozeans 

 uns von Ihnen trennt und es uns unmoglich macht, den Festlichkeiten beizu- 

 wohnen. 



Dass die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auch im zweiten 

 Jahrhundert ihres Bestehens weitere schone Erfolge zu verzeichnen habe, das 

 ist unser Wunsch. 



Mit Vorziiglicher Hochachtung 

 "Kosmos" Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde, 



W. Keller, 

 E. Nehmann. 




lxxxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Laboratoire Maritime de Concarneau, Finistere. 



Concarneau, le 20 Mars 1912. 

 Monsieur le President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Cher Monsieur : 



J'ai l'honneur de vous adresser tous mes remerciements pour l'aimable invi- 

 tation que vous avez adressee au Laboratoire de Concarneau a l'occasion du 

 centenaire de la fondation de votre illustre Academie et de vous exprimer 

 en meme temps tous mes regrets de ne pouvoir assister, vu la distance qui nous 

 separe, aux ceremonies qui marqueront cet important evenement; mais je 

 me fais un devoir de vous adresser, en meme temps que le temoignage de mon 

 admiration pour les services rendus a la science par votre Institution, l'expres- 

 sion de mes sentiments confraternels et tout devoues a la cause desinteressee 

 pour laquelle nous travaillons tous, et qui me font vivre aujourd'hui de tout 

 coeur avec vous. 



En vous priant, Monsieur le President, de faire part a tous vos collaborateurs 

 de mes sentiments de tres haut estime, je vous prie d'agreer personellement 

 l'expression de mes sinceres hommages et de mes distinguees civilits. 



Votre entierement devoue 



Dr. F. Guerin-Ganivet. 



Lehigh University. 



South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, March 19, 1912. 

 Lehigh University tenders hearty congratulations to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia on the celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary 

 of the Foundation of the Academy, and all Lehigh men wish long life and increas- 

 ing success to the Institution that has in this past century of progress done such 

 infinitely great things for the enlightenment and scientific advancement of our 

 people. 



By Henry S. Drinker, 



President, 

 C. L. Thornburg, 

 Secretary. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. lxxxix 



K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher. 



Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sendet die Kaiserlich 

 Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher zur Feier 

 ihres lOOjahrigen Bestehens herzlichen Gruss. 



Vom 19 bis 21 Marz dieses Jahres soil der Tag festlich begangen werden, an 

 dem die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auf ein Jahrhundert eines 

 ruhmvollen Bestehens zuriickblicken kann. Die Kaiserlich Leopoldinisch- 

 Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher nimmt der freudigsten 

 Anteil an diesem Ehrentage der altesten naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft 

 der Vereinigten Staaten und sendet ihr dazu die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche. 

 Seit am 16 April 1812 die sieben Naturforscher G. Troost, N. S. Parmentier, 

 John Shinn, John Speakman. Jacob Gilliams, Thomas Say, und Camillus Mac- 

 Mahon Mann die Akademie begrundeten, ist sie standig emporgebluht und hat 

 durch ausgezeichnete Mitglieder auf alien Gebieten der Naturwissenschaf ten : der 

 Ethnologie, der vergleichenden Anatomie und Zoologie, der Botanik, der Paleon- 

 tologie, Mineralogie und Geologie hervorragendes geleistet. Namen wie Say, 

 Godman, Harlan, Morton, und viele andere, die in Journal und in den Pro- 

 ceedings der Akademie die Fruchte ihrer Forschungen veroffentlichten und ihr 

 Museum und ihre Sammlungen zur hochsten Bliite brachten, werden in der 

 Geschichte der Naturwissenschaften unvergessen bleiben. Mochte die Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia noch viele Jahrhunderte lang bestehen 

 und weiter bliihen und gedeihen. 



Der Prasident und das Adjunkten-Kollegium der Kaiserlich Leopoldinisch- 

 Carolinischen Deutschen Akademie der Naturforscher. 



A. Wangerin. 



Halle a. S. den 19 Marz 1912. 



Finely engrossed. 




xc PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Km. Magyar Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat, Budapest. 



VIII, Eszterhazy-Utcza 16 Szam. 71/1912. 

 The President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Sir: 



The Royal Hungarian Society of Natural Sciences desires to thank you 

 for the cordial invitation to participate in the festivities on the occasion of the 

 100th Anniversary of your Academy and regrets that it cannot send repre- 

 sentatives to personally express its heartiest congratulations. 



Kindly accept the felicitations of our Society for the splendid successes 

 which have attended the efforts of your Academy in the past, and warmest 

 wishes that the Academy may enjoy prosperity in the future. 



Yours very truly, 



Dr. Lengyel Bela, 

 President. 



Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia. 



To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia : 



The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia feels deeply honoured at the kind 

 invitation extended to it by The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 to attend the celebration of its Centenary Anniversary, but regrets to say that, 

 owing to the distance and the shortness of the time available, it will be unable 

 to send any delegate to represent it in person at the said celebration. 



The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia, however, begs to claim its share in the 

 congratulations offered to your distinguished Academy on the attainment of the 

 first centenary of its existence and to tender its tribute to the splendid services 

 rendered by your Academy to the cause of science and scholarship. This 

 tribute must unfortunately be tendered in writing, owing to the reasons afore- 

 said, but it is offered in a spirit of the most heartfelt appreciation and esteem for 

 the services your distinguished Academy has rendered to humanity. 



The Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia begs to couple its tribute of homage and 

 its message of congratulation with the fervent hope that your distinguished 

 Academy may continue for many a century to be such a bulwark of science and 

 scholarship and foremost outpost of human progress as it has been during the 

 past hundred years. 



A. Berzeviczy, 



President. 

 Budapest, 10. March, 1912. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xci 



Imp. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispytatelei. 



Moscou le 20 February, 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, founded in 1805, has had the 

 pleasure to see the development of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia at the beginning to the present time and is able to fix the great success 

 of the Academy during the past hundred years in cultivation of the natural 

 sciences. Our Society very much regrets that the great distance makes it im- 

 possible to be represented at the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of the 

 Academy. 



On behalf of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, I take the 

 opportunity of offering sincere and hearty congratulations, and of expressing 

 our deep appreciation of the great services that the Academy at Philadelphia has 

 rendered to natural sciences during the last hundred years, and our hope that its 

 activity may long continue in the future. 



President : 

 Prof. Dr. N. Umoff, 



Secretaries: 

 Prof. Dr. E. Leyst, 

 V. Deinega. 




xcii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Imp. Moskovskij Universitet. 



Moscow, February 26, 1912. 

 No. 756. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 Gentlemen : 



The oldest of the Russian universities, the Imperial University of Moscow, 

 has directed us, in its behalf, to offer to the oldest of American learned insti- 

 tutions for natural sciences, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 most sincere and hearty congratulations on the auspicious occasion of the 

 Hundredth Anniversary of its scientific birth. In the past hundred years the 

 professors, lecturers, and assistants of our University have followed with great 

 interest the valuable records of the old Journal and the Proceedings, con- 

 taining so many memoirs important to natural sciences not only in America, 

 but in all the civilised world. Your Proceedings are known and valued 

 wherever natural sciences are cultivated. 



Much regret is felt that no member of this University can be present as a 

 Delegate at your celebration, to express in terms befitting the occasion the 

 sentiments of high esteem constantly held by us, and the ardent wishes 

 we have for your success in future in every undertaking. We most cordially 

 express confident hope that the future of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia will be as brilliant as its past. 



Rector 

 M. Lubawskt 



Vice-Rector 

 Ernst Leyst 



Pro-Rector 

 A. Elistrator 



Secretary 

 S. Preobrashensky. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xciii 



Museum National Francaise d'Histoire Naturelle. 



Le Museum National francais d'Histoire Naturelle a, l'Academie des Sciences 

 Naturelles de Philadelphie: 



L'Assembtee des Professeurs du Museum national d'Histoire naturelle de 

 France adresse toutes ses felicitations a l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de 

 Philadelphie a l'occasion de son Centenaire. 



La jeune Amerique a su se faire une place d'honneur dans la culture des 

 sciences naturelles; elle s'est signalee par des publications qui comptent parmi 

 les plus belles et les plus importantes, et ses Musses ont pris un developpement 

 qui fait l'admiration du Vieux Monde. L'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de 

 Philadelphie a pris la plus grande part a ce mouvement. Elle a toujours et6 

 unie par des liens d'etroite sympathie avec le Museum d'Histoire naturelle, et 

 les Professeurs du vieil etablisement trois fois centenaire, heritiers d'un passe 

 glorieux, sont heureux d'offrir leurs vceux a leurs Confreres du Nouveau Monde. 

 Au nom des Professeurs du Museum d'Histoire Naturelle de France: 



Le Directeur, 

 Edmund Perrier. 

 Noms des Professeurs: 



Ph. Van Tieghem Marcellin Boule 



A. Chauveau L. Joubin 



A. Arnaud Louis Mangin 



Stanislas Meunier E. Trouessart 



A. La Croix H. LeComte 



L. E. Bouvier Jean Becquerel 



L. Maquenne Rene Verneau 



J. Costantin Louis Roule 



Louis Lapicque 



Folded folio sheet in cover with ornamental border and vignettes, beautifully 

 -printed by the Imprimerie Nationale. 




xciv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



's Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie. 



Leiden, 17 February, 1912. 



The Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie received with the greatest 

 interest the most important information by your Secretary, that your Academy 

 will have completed in March, 1912, one hundred years of active devotion to the 

 cultivation of the Natural Sciences, that for the adequate celebration of its 

 Centenary Anniversary, the Academy will call in convention at its Hall the learned 

 men and institutions of the world its collaborators, and finally that the Academy 

 invites the Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie to be represented at this 

 event which will take place at Philadelphia on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs- 

 day, the nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first of March, nineteen hundred and 

 twelve. 



Now the high scientific rank occupied by your Academy is plain to all students 

 of Nature and we all are impressed by the amount of scientific work done and 

 provided by its members, so pray to accept of the officers of the Rijks Museum 

 van Natuurlijke Historie at Leiden the most hearty congratulations on the great 

 event, and their best wishes for the prosperity of your adult but not old institution! 



May in the year 2012 the then living generation state the great fact that 

 your Academy still is flourishing and in the very strong condition" that it is now 

 in March, 1912. 



It is with the greatest regret that we can not come over to follow the kind 

 invitation with which you honored us; our sincere congratulations may represent 

 us at your Centenary Festival! 



Vivat, floreat, crescatque Academia Scientiarum Naturalium Philadelphiensis! 



F. A. Jentink, 

 Directeur van 's Rijks Museum van Natuurlijke Historie. 



To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xcv 



Natural History Survey of Minnesota. 



The University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, February 28, 1912. 

 Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Dear Sir: 



I regret that it will be practically impossible for the Zoological Survey of 

 Minnesota to be represented at the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on March nineteenth, 

 twentieth, and twenty-first, nineteen hundred twelve. 



The natural sciences have been and are being advanced by The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and I feel impelled to congratulate in particular 

 the officers of the Academy and the citizens of Philadelphia on the splendid 

 record of the past and wish the Academy continued prosperity in the new century. 



Sincerely yours, 



Henry F. Nachtrieb, 

 Zoologist of the Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota, 



Professor of Animal Biology and Head of the Department. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Gorlitz. 



Gorlitz den 18 Marz 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Die Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Gorlitz hat aus Ihrer freundlichen 

 Einladung mit grossem Interesse ersehen, dass auch Sie in diesem Jahre auf 

 ein hundertjahriges Wirken im Interesse unserer Naturwissenschaften zuruck- 

 blicken. 



Indem wir fiir die freundliche Einladung zu diesem Feste, an dem wir uns 

 leider durch kein Mitglied vertreten lassen konnen, danken, wlinschen wir Ihnen 

 viel Gluck und Gedeihen fiir die Zukunft. 

 Im Namen des Presidiums 



Dr. Willy Meyer, 

 I. Sekretar. 




xcvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



NATURHISTORISCHE GESELLSCHAFT NtlRNBERG. 



Nurnberg, den 7 Marz 1912. 

 An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Die Naturhistorische Gesellschaft Nurnberg entbietet der Academy of 

 Natural Sciences zu ihrer Jahrhundertfeier die allerherzlichsten Gliickwunsche. 

 Die verflossenen hundert Jahre waren fiir die Entwicklung der Naturwissen- 

 schaften ungemein segensreich und fruchtbringend; die Academy hat durch 

 die Arbeiten ihrer Gelehrten in hohem Masse dazu beigetragen, die Erfahrungen 

 der Wissenschaft in weite Kreise zu tragen. Seit 56 Jahren stehen unsere 

 beiden Institute in wechselseitigem Verkehr. Moge der rege Austausch der 

 geistigen Kulturguter, alte und neue Welt eng und freundschaftlich aneinander 

 knupfend, auch in Zukunft das gleiche erhebende Bild zeigen, das die Vergangen- 

 heit ausgezeichnet hat. 



Fiir die Naturhistorische Gesellschaft, Nurnberg 



I. Sekretar 

 Professor Dr. Kuspert. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xcvii 



K. k. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Wien. 



K. und K. Intendanz des K. K. Naturhistorischen 



Hofmuseums, Wien, 27. Februar 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Der ergebenst Gefertigte erlaubt sich, der hochansehnlichen Akademie der 

 Naturwissenschaf ten anlasslich der Feier Ihres Einhundertjahrigen Bestandes im 

 Namen des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums in Wien die herzlichsten und 

 ergebensten Gluckwunsche darzubringen. 



Mit gerechtem Stolze und voller Befriedigung kann die hohe Akademie auf 

 ihre Einhundertjahrige erfolgreiche Tatigkeit auf dem weiten Gebiete der 

 Naturwissenschaf ten zuriickblicken. Zu Ihren Grtindern und Mitarbeitern 

 zahlen ja die grossten amerikanischen Gelehrten des vergangenen Jahrhunderts, 

 deren Namen unsterblich fortlebt in der Geschichte der Naturwissenschaf ten. 



Moge es der hohen Akademie in Philadelphia gegonnt sein, noch viele Jahr- 

 hunderte in gleicher segensreicher Weise zu wirken zum Ruhme Ihres grossen 

 Vaterlandes und zur Forderung des Wissens der gesammten gebildeten Welt. 



"Vivat, floreat, crescat Academia." 



Die Intendanz des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums bedauert sehr, wegen 

 der Grosse der Entfernung und der ungiinstigen Jahreszeit keinen Delegierten 

 nach Philadelphia zu dieser seltenen, erhebenden Feier entsenden zu konnen. 



Dr. Franz Steindachner, 

 Intendant des k. k. naturhistorischen Hofmuseums. 



Naturhistorisches Museum zu Hamburg. 



Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, der hochverdienten 

 Pflegerin und Forderin wissenschaftlicher Forschung, sendet zur Feier ihres 

 hundert-jahrigen Bestehens herzlichsten Gluckwunsch. 



Das Naturhistorische Museum zu Hamburg, 



Kraepelin. 



Hamburg, den 20 Februar 1912. 



A fine specimen of chirography. 



7* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.. VOL. XV. 




xcviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Naturhistorisch-medizinischer Verein Heidelberg. 



Heidelberg d. 1 Marz 1912. 

 An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Der Naturhistorisch-medizinische Verein zu Heidelberg bedauert ausser- 

 ordentlich keinen Vertreter zu Ihrem Feste entsenden zu konnen; aber er beauf- 

 tragt mich Ihnen seine herzlichsten Gluckwunsche zu iibermitteln. Er kennt 

 wohl die Bedeutung, welche Ihre ausgezeichnete Academy fur die Ausbreitung 

 und Entwicklung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntniss in den Vereinigten Staaten 

 gehabt hat; er begliickwunscht Sie zu Ihren grossen Erfolgen und wunscht, dass 

 Sie auch im zweiten Jahrhundert nicht weniger segensreich werden mogen. 

 In ausgezeichneter Hochachtung und Verehrung 



der Schriftfiihrer 

 Prof. Dr. Wilhelm Salomon. 



Den Naturhistoriske Forening: Kobenhavn. 



Feb. 28, 1912. 

 To the Corresponding Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Sir: 

 On behalf of the Naturhistoriske Forening i Kobenhavn, I wish to express 

 our best thanks for the great honour of being invited to be represented at the 

 celebration of the Centenary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 We deeply regret not to be able to send a delegate at this event; we must 

 confine ourselves to sending our most hearty congratulations on the completion of 

 the first hundred years of successful work in promoting science, and to express 

 the hope that the Academy may continue to grow and flourish for ages to come. 



Believe me, Sir, 



Yours respectfully, 

 Hector F. E. Jungersen, 

 President of Naturhistorisk Forening. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. xcix 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Hamburg. 



Der Academy of Natural Sciences zu Philadelphia sendet der naturwissen- 

 schaftliche Verein in Hamburg in freudiger Anerkennung der Verdienste der 

 Akademie um die Forderung der Naturwissenschaften zu der Feier ihres hundert- 

 jahrigen Bestehens am 19, 20, und 21 Marz 1912 seinen aufrichtigsten Gliick- 

 wunsch. 



Der derzeitige 1. Vorsitzende 



Prof. Dr. G. Gurich. 

 Folded sheet in cover with seal of society. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Schleswig-Holstein. 



An die Akademie der Naturwissenschaften in Philadelphia 



Hochgeehrte Herren: 



Zu der bevorstehenden Feier Ihres 100 jahrigen Bestehens beehren wir uns 

 die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche zu iibersenden. 



Wenn wir uns es auch versagen miissen, der freundlichst an uns ergangenen 

 Einladung durch Entsendung eines Vertreters zu entsprechen, so wissen wir uns 

 doch eins mit Ihnen in der Freude iiber die bedeutsamen Erfolge Ihres Wirkens 

 und in der Wertschatzung derjenigen Bedeutung, welche innerhalb der gesamm- 

 ten Cultur der Pflege naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse zukommt. 



Wir wunschen und hoffen, dass dem Ruhmeskranze, den sich Ihre Akademie 

 durch ernste und fruchtbare hundertjahrige Arbeit verdient hat, ungezahlte 

 neue Blatter fernerhin hinzugeftigt werden. 



Hensen, 

 L. Weber. 



Kiel, den 10 Marz 1912. 




c PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Steiermark in Graz. 



To the Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia : 



Der Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fur Steiermark dankt Ihrer Academy fur 

 die freundliche Einladung zum hundertjahrigen Jubilaum ihrer Grundung. 



Durch ein Jahrhundert an der Spitze aller der seither in Amerika entstandenen 

 jiingeren gelehrten Gesellschaften stehend, welche sich die naturwissenschaftliche 

 Erforschung Ihres grossen und machtigen Vaterlandes zur Aufgabe machten, 

 hat die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in dieser fur die Wissen- 

 schaft kurzen Zeit Erfolge erzielt, die mit Recht die Bewunderung der gelehrten 

 Welt erregten. Unser Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, dem Sie die Ehre er- 

 wiesen, ihn zu Ihrer Feier einzuladen, sendet Ihnen die herzlichsten Gluckwunsche 

 fur ein gleich ruhmreiches Wirken in vielen weiteren Jahrhunderten. 



Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging has the honour to acknowledge 



the receipt of the kind invitation from The Academy of Natural Sciences of 



Philadelphia, to be represented at the celebration of its Centenary Anniversary. 



The Vereeniging regrets to be obliged to inform the Academy that it will not 



be able to attend this no doubt very successful meeting. 



It therefore forwards by way of this letter its best wishes for the flourishing 

 of the institution, that has already done so exceedingly much for the advance- 

 ment of the Natural Sciences. 



May the Academy in future be able to carry on this noble task with juvenile 

 strength! 



P. P. C. Hoek, 



President, 

 R. Horst, 



Secretary. 



Haarlem _ 



j- ^t , 21st February, 1912. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. ci 



Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging. 



Rotterdam, the 7th of February, 1912. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Dear Sirs: 



Our Society, though greatly honoured by your kind invitation to send a 

 representative to the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of your Academy, 

 regrets much to be unable to accept it, as the travel to Philadelphia is too far. 

 The Board of our Society takes the liberty to offer you the best wishes for the 

 future prosperity of your Academy and hopes that it will be able to continue with 

 the same devotion and success the scientific labor, which is highly appreciated 

 also by the members of our Society. 



I remain, Dear Sirs, 



Yours faithfully, 



D. van der Hoop, 

 Secretary. 



New York Academy of Sciences. 



The New York Academy of Sciences sends most hearty greetings to The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the latter's 

 celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of her founding. 



Next younger in age among such institutions in the country, the New York 

 Academy feels an especial right to congratulate her sister Academy upon rounding 

 out the first century of an existence that has been honorable for work accomplished 

 along several lines, but particularly in conchology and geology. Now that there 

 are so many centers of scientific work and thought in America there is danger of 

 overlooking the claims to recognition of the great original source of inspiration. 

 May Philadelphia maintain for centuries to come the front rank in this regard 

 that has been hers for more than the century now closing. 



Emerson McMillan, 



President. 

 Edmund Otis Hovey, 

 Recording Secretary. 

 Beautifully engrossed on parchment with illuminated initials. 




cii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Northwestern University, Evanston-Chicago. 



Northwestern University offers congratulations to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia on the arrival of its One Hundredth Anniversary, and 

 takes pleasure in paying a tribute to its helpful and uplifting influence on the 

 progress of the natural sciences. 



Through its museum exhibits and public lectures, as well as through the 

 personal influence of its distinguished members, the Academy has promoted a 

 widespread interest in the natural sciences. At the same time, it has stimulated 

 research by providing means of publication for many notable scientific investi- 

 gations that have been produced by its members and correspondents. 



This activity establishes between the Academy and the Universities a bond 

 of sympathy, based on similarity of aims and purposes in promoting the spread 

 of education among the people, and in offering encouragement to gifted investi- 

 gators. 



In recognition of this high service to the cause of scientific learning, North- 

 western University not only offers felicitations for past achievements, but also 

 wishes for The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia continued prosperity 

 and success in the prosecution of its noble work. 



Chicago, Illinois, March fifteenth, nineteen hundred and twelve. 



A. W. Harris, 



President. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. ciii 



Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 



145 North 10th St., Philadelphia, March 14, 1912. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. 

 Dear Sir: 



The Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, which is approaching its Ninety-second 

 Anniversary, desires to extend to your Academy her heartiest greetings upon 

 this felicitous occasion of its Centenary Anniversary. 



The College recalls with pride the fact that the first President of your Organi- 

 zation, Gerard Troost, M.D., a man highly esteemed by all, afterwards became 

 associated with her as Professor of Chemistry. 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Philadelphia Col- 

 lege' of Pharmacy have been so closely allied during the lifetime of the latter, 

 that she feels it a great honor to have this opportunity of extending to the 

 older sister institution her heartiest good wishes for a continuance of such an 

 honored career. And it is her hope that the most excellent work which the 

 Academy has so nobly and heroically carried on during the past one hundred 

 years may continue through future centuries. 



Very truly, 

 Attest: Howard B. French, 



President. 

 C. A. Weidemann, M.D., 

 Secretary. 




CIV 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



The Philadelphia Pathological Society. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 1812-1912, Greeting! 



The Philadelphia Pathological Society extends to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences cordial greetings upon the completion of one hundred years of active, 

 productive life, congratulating the Academy upon its notable record of past 

 achievements, and earnestly wishing for it long continuance of life, prosperity 

 and success. 



By Delegates: Allen J. Smith, 



President, 

 David Riesman, 



Past President, 

 W. M. L. Coplin, 

 Past President. 

 Philadelphia, Pa., March 19, 1912. 

 Beautifully engrossed. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cv 



Philadelphia High School for Girls. 



Greetings of the Philadelphia High School for Girls to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia (1812, March 21, 1912). 



All institutions whose object is the pursuit of exact knowledge rejoice with 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on this the celebration of the 

 One hundredth Anniversary of its foundation. 



The Philadelphia High School for Girls is glad at this time to extend its sincere 

 congratulations and to have the opportunity of expressing its deep sense of 

 obligation to the Academy. Situated as the school is, almost in the shadow of the 

 walls of this famous institution, it has found the Academy a helpful neighbor. 

 Teachers and pupils have derived inspiration from its unique collections, from 

 the clear and comprehensive lectures arranged to meet the special interests of the 

 school, and from the willing aid received many times in the effort to solve difficult 

 problems connected with the work. 



May the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia flourish in the future 

 as it has in the past, may it continue in its honest devotion to the development 

 of science, in its attainment of end for the betterment of mankind, in its world- 

 wide reputation for members of sterling qualities and of great achievement. 



J. Eugene Baker, 



Principal, 

 Katherine E. Pinncheon, 



Assistant to Principal, 

 Ida A. Keller, 



Head of Department of Biology. 




cvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



PONTIFICIA ACCADEMIA ROMANA DEI NUOVI LlNCEI, ROMA. 



Palazzo della Cancelleria, Roma, 13 Febbraio, 1912. 

 Monsieur le President : 



J'ai l'honneur de vous exprimer au nom de l'Academie Pontificale des " Nuovi 

 Lincei" les sentiments de la plus vive et fraternelle sympathie pour votre 

 honorable Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia a l'occasion des fetes 

 centenaires qui auront lieu le mois prochain a Philadelphie. 



Nous souhaitons a votre glorieuse Institution un avenir digne du pass6, pour 

 le plus grand avantage des sciences que vous cultivez si noblement, et dont vous 

 vous intressez si largement du progress. 



Nous formons en meme temps les voeux les plus sinceres pour la prosperity 

 de tous les Academiciens. 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President, l'expression de ma haute consideration. 



Dr. Pierre de Sanctis, 

 Secretaire. 



M. le President de la Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cvii 



Die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg i. Pr. 



Konigsberg i. Pr., 6 Marz 1912. 



An der Centenarfeier der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 nimmt die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft zu Konigsberg i. Pr. der es 

 leider nicht moglich ist, einen Vertreter iiber den Ocean zu entsenden, herzlichen 

 Anteil und erlaubt sich, wenigstens schriftlich ihre besten Gluckwunsche darzu- 

 bringen. 



Wer die mit 1817 beginnende Reihe der Veroffentlichungen der Akademie 

 einsieht, stosst auf eine stattliche Zahl iiber Amerika hinaus bekannt gewordener 

 Namen, deren Arbeiten einen dauernden Gewinn fiir die Wissenschaft darstellen. 

 Wie aber zu einem Gebaude ausser den Grund- und Eckpfeilern viele grossere 

 und kleinere Bausteine notwendig sind und ohne solche ein Bau nicht errichtet 

 werden kann, so verhalt es sich auch mit der Wissenschaft, die ohne oft minutiose 

 Detailarbeit nicht bestehen kann. Auch hieran hat es der Academy nicht 

 gefehlt, und so bilden ihre bisherigen Leistungen das beste Prognosticon fiir die 



Zukunft. 



Die Physikalisch-oekonomische Gesellschaft 



Der Schriftfuhrer 

 M. Luhe 

 Der President 



M. Braun. 



Roemer Museum. 



Hildesheim, den 15. 2. 12. 

 Sehr geehrter Herr: 



Fiir die liebenswiirdige Einladung zu dem Hundertjahrigen Stiftungsfeste 

 der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia sagt der Vorstand des Roemer- 

 Museums ehrerbietig seinen Dank. Leider ist er nicht in der Lage einen 

 Delegierten zu senden, um seine herzlichen Gluckwunsche zu uberbringen. Er 

 hat mich beauftragt, diese Gluckwunsche hiermit Ihnen aus vollem Herzen 

 darzubringen : 



Vivat! Floreat! Crescat! Academia Scientia? Naturalis Philadelphia! 



In seterum! 



Mit ausgezeichneter Hochachtung 

 Prof. Dr. R. Hauthal. 




cviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Royal Society of Edinburgh. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Royal Society of Edinburgh takes with great pleasure the opportunity of 

 expressing to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, its congratu- 

 lations upon the celebration of the Academy's Centenary. 



Sharing as it does the proud duty of advancing and diffusing knowledge, the 

 Society recognises the debt due to those who, under the aegis of the Academy, 

 have so zealously and so successfully laboured with the same end in view, to the 

 benefit not of one country only but of mankind. 



The Society feels it a peculiar pleasure to convey upon so auspicious an oc- 

 casion, by the hands of its personal representatives, these sincere congratulations 

 to an Academy of a country with which Scotland has had such long and intimate 

 connections, and with cordial greetings expresses its confident hope for a continu- 

 ance of the Academy's distinguished career. 



Wm. Turner, 

 (Seal) President, 



C. G. Knott, 

 Secretary. 

 Edinburgh, March, 1912. 

 Beautifully printed on folio sheet 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cix 



Russkoje Entomologiceskoje Obscestvo. 



To the President, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



On the occasion of the Centennial Jubilee Celebration of The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia the Russian Entomological Society welcomes the 

 remembrance that the Academy has always paid much attention to entomology. 

 In order to appreciate the enormous significance of the part the Academy has 

 played in the study of the branch of zoology which is so dear to our Entomolog- 

 ical Society, it is sufficient to quote the names of the following famous savants, 

 whose works appeared in the publications of the Academy: B. Clemens, E. T. 

 Cresson, S. S. Haldeman, N. M. Hentz, G. H. Horn, J. Leconte, J. L. Leconte, 

 F. E. Melsheimer, Miss M. Morris, W. F. Rogers, Baron R. Von Osten-Sacken, 

 Th. Say, Ph. R. Uhler, D. Ziegler, and many others. 



The Russian Entomological Society presents its heartiest congratulations on 

 the Centennial Anniversary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 and wishes that it may continue in future its useful work and to flourish for 

 many years to come. 



P. Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, 



President. 

 Andrea Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, 



Vice President. 

 G. Jacobson, 

 Secretary. 

 O. John, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 




ex PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. 



Leipzig, den 8 Marz 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia spreche ich meinen warmen 

 und ehrerbietigen Dank fur die Einladung zur Teilnahme an der Feier des 100- 

 jahrigen Bestehens aus. 



Wenn ich auch nicht in der Lage bin, personlich an der Feier teilzunehmen, 

 so mochte ich doch nicht verfehlen, der Akademie meinen aufrichtigen Gliick- 

 wunsch darzubringen, und die Hoffnung auszusprechen, dass von ihr auch 

 weiterhin segensreiche wissenschaftliche Anregungen ausgehen mochten. 



Wenn ich an mein Spezialgebiet, die Zoologie, denke, so darf ich wohl darauf 

 hinweisen, dass der 1817 erschienene erste Band des Journal of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia eine Reihe ausgezeichneter zoologischer 

 Abhandlungen enthalt, von denen die erste keinen geringeren als LeSueur zum 

 Verfasser hat. 



Seit jener Zeit hat die Akademie eine solche Fiille ausgezeichneter Unter- 

 suchungen und hervorragender Entdeckungen auf dem Gebiete der beschrei- 

 benden Naturwissenschaften veroffentlicht, dass sie schon lange einen Ehren- 

 platz unter den wissenschaftlichen Vereinigungen der neuen und alten Welt 

 einnimmt. 



Vivat, crescat, floreat! 



Der Sekretar der mathem.-physischen Klasse: 



Carl Chun. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxi 



K. Sachsische Gesellschaft deb Wissenschaften. 



Leipzig, den 9. Marz 1912. 

 Die Koniglich Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften spricht der 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia ihren warmen Gliickwunsch aus 

 Anlass der lOOjahrigen Jubelfeier aus. 



Unter den wissenschaftlichen Vereinigungen Amerikas ist sie nicht nur eine 

 der altesten, sondern auch bis heute eine der angesehensten, deren segensreiche 

 Tatigkeit auf das geistige Leben der Vereinigten Staaten und des Auslandes einen 

 deutlich erkennbaren Einnuss ausiibte. Durchmustert man die Liste ihrer 

 Mitglieder, so findet man in ihr die stolzesten Namen amerikanischer Gelehrter: 

 begreiflich, dass man im Auslande es sich zur besonderen Ehre anrechnete, zu 

 der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia personliche Beziehungen zu 

 gewinnen. 



Seit dem Jahre 1817, in dem der erste Band des Journal of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia erschien, hat die Akademie eine solche Fiille 

 bedeutsamer Arbeiten und Entdeckungen veroffentlicht, dass ihre Publikation 

 an innerem Gehalt mit den ehrwurdigsten Zeitschriften der alten Welt wetteifern 

 kann . Ihr Leitmotiv waren die Worte von Montagu : " By withholding individual 

 information general knowledge is suspended. Science is materially advanced 

 by the promulgation of the sentiments of individuals, and poor indeed must be 

 the resources of those from whom nothing is to be learned." 



So erkennen wir denn mit der gesamten wissenschaftlichen Welt dankbar an, 

 dass der vor 100 Jahren in bescheidener Form gepflanzte Baum wissenschaftlicher 

 Erkenntnis herrliche Friichte getragen hat, und wtinschen der Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia auch weiterhin ein segensreiches Gedeihen. 

 Die Konigl. Sachs. Gesellschaft d. Wissenschaften. 



Der Sekretar d. mathem.-phys. Klasse: 



Carl Chun 

 Der Sekretar d. phil.-hist. Klasse: 

 Ernst Windisch. 




cxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



SCHWEIZERISCHE NaTURFORSCHENDE GESELLSCHAFT. 



Geneve, le 13 Mars 1912. 

 La Societe Helv6tique des Sciences Naturelles a The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Monsieur le President et tres Honore* Confrere: 



Par suite d'une erreur de l'Administration des Postes, l'invitation que vous 

 nous avez fait l'honneur de nous adresser pour nous faire representer aux belles 

 ceremonies par lesquelles vous celebrez le Centenaire de votre savante society, 

 nous parvient trop tard pour que nous puissions y prendre part. 



Nous tenons neanmoins a, venir vous exprimer les sentiments de vive admi- 

 ration que nous eprouvons a la pensee que votre savante Compagnie puisse 

 celebrer cette annee, le centieme anniversaire de sa fondation, et nous venons vous 

 prier d'agreer tous les voeux les plus sinceres que nous formons pour sa pros- 

 perity dans le second siecle d'activite* qui s'ouvre devant elle. 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le President et tres Honore Confrere, l'assurance 

 de notre consideration la plus distinguee. 



Pour Le Comite Central 



Le President 



Ed. Sarasin 

 La Secretaire 

 Ph. A. Guye. 



Smithsonian Institution. 



The Smithsonian Institution sends greetings and congratulations to The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on the occasion of the One hun- 

 redth Anniversary of its Foundation. 



Recognizing the importance of the influence which, for a century, the Academy 

 has exerted on the development of American science and the value of the contri- 

 butions which it has made to natural history, the Institution desires to express the 

 hope that its beneficent activities may long continue. 



Charles Walcott, 

 Secretary. 



March the Nineteenth, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Twelve. 



Exquisitely engrossed and illuminated. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxiii 



La Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales. 



La Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales en el primer decenio de su 

 existencia se congratula con la Academia de Ciencias Naturales de Filadelphia 

 en su Centenario 1812-1912. 



Seculari Academic Scientiarum Philadelphian^; Gratulatio. 



Ferte, leves venti, mea munera, ferte salutem 



Ad Philadelphinos fluctibus oceani. 

 En celebrat primum sapiens Academia seclum. 



Gaude, dumque volent tempora progredere. 



Colegio de Salvador Longin Navas, S.J. 



Csesarangustse, Febr. 1912. 



Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias. 



Malaga, Febrero 1912. 

 The Secretary the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



La Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias tributa a su homologa de Philadelphia 

 felicitation entusiasta al conmemorar esta su primer Centenario de brillante 

 existencia. 



Nos honrariamos concurriendo al certamen que vais a celebrar con tan fausto 

 motiva, mas ya que ello no nos sea posible, recibid nuestro saludo sincero y 

 nuestros fervientes votos por vuestra prosperidad creciente para bien de la 

 Ciencia y de la Humanidad. 



Al trasmitiros estos acuerdos os damos expresivas gracias por vuestra invi- 

 taci6n y nos ofrecemos vuestros afectuosos colegas. 



El Secretario, 

 El Presidente, 

 Z. Rodriques Spiteri. 



* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI PHILA.. VOL. XV 




cxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



SOCIETA DEI NATURALISTI E MaTEMATICI IN MODENA. 



Modena, 28 Febbrajo 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Un secolo di vita scientifica hanno dato alia Vostra Accademia tutto lo 



splendore che molte delle vostre Consorelle hanno raggiunto durante un tempo 



piu che doppiamente secolare; e accanto a Voi e per la vostra influenza esercitata 



.in mezzo alle attive e giovani popolazioni dell' America del Nord, vi sono cresciuti 



attorno sodalizi e istituzioni scientifiche largamente fruttuose. 



E con la piu sentita gioja intelletuale che noi prendiamo parte alle vostre 

 feste giubilari; il tempo e an che la distanza non permettono alia Societa dei 

 Naturalisti e Matematici di Modena di inviare un rappresentante alle vostre 

 adunanze solenni; ma lontani, saremo con Voi in quei giorni con l'animo nostro, 

 e vi auguriamo, non senza un certo egoismo scientifico che ormai i lavori dei 

 singoli sulla terra sono a benefizio di tutti, una indefettibile vita per la grandezza 

 del vostro Paese, per il benessere dell'umanita. 



il Presidente 

 Dante Pantanelli 

 il Segretario 

 Giacomo G. Bassoli. 



Societa Zoogical Italiana. 



Roma, li 23 Febbraio, 1912. 

 Illmo Signor Presidente: 



Riceviamo con piacere il cortese annunzio della prossima celebrazione del 

 Centenario di codesta illustre e benemerita Accademia scientifica. Dispiacenti 

 di non poter intervenire personalmente alia festa commemorativa, Vi preghiamo, 

 illustrissimo Signor Presidente, di voler rappresentare la nostra Societa Zoologica 

 Italiana. Vogliate accettare, da parte di tutti i membri di questa Societa, i 

 piu caldi e sinceri auguri affinche il vostro Istituto possa continuare per l'awenire 

 nel suo nobile compito, cosi degnamente e felicemente adempito finora, di giovare 

 al progresso delle scienze naturali, che e anche progresso della civilta dei popoli. 



Con devozione e stima 



II Presidente 

 Prof. Antonio Carruccio 



II Segretario 

 Prof. Giuseppe Lepri 

 All' ill. Sig. Presidente dell'Accademia di Scienze Naturali in Filadelfia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxv 



Regia Societas Scientiarum Bohemica. 



Prag am 5 Marz 1912. 

 An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Die Koniglich Bohmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften in Prag hat mit 

 innigstem Dank die Einladung zu Festtagen empfangen, an welchen die Acad- 

 emy of Natural Sciences ihr hundertjahriges Bestehen zu feiern gedenkt, be- 

 dauert jedoch, dass es ihr nicht moglich ist, ihren Vertreter zur Feier selbst 

 entsenden zu konnen. 



Die Gesellschaft schliesst sich jedoch mit Freuden alien jenen an, die nah und 

 fern in diesen Tagen des ruhmreichen, dem Fortschritte der Wissenschaft 

 gewidmeten hundertjahrigen Wirkens der Academy mit Dank gedenken und 

 entbietet der Academy ihre schlichten, aber aufrichtigen Worte der Bewunderung 

 fiir all die bisher der Wissenschaft geleisteten Dienste und die besten Gliick- 

 wiinsche fiir ihre Fortsetzung in den kommenden Jahrhunderten. Academia 

 scientiarum naturalium Philadelphiensis vivat, floreat, crescat! 



Fiir das Presidium der Koniglich Bohmischen Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften 



K. Vrba 

 Prasident, 

 Josef Zubaty 

 General-Sekretar. 



SOCIETE BOTANIQUE DE FRANCE. 



Rue de Grenelle, 84, a Paris (VII. e ) Paris, le 4 Mars 1912. 

 A Monsieur le President et a Messieurs les Membres de l'Academie des Sciences 

 naturelles de Philadelphie : 

 Messieurs : 



Au moment ou votre savante Academie celebre le 100 e anniversaire de sa 

 fondation, la Soci^te Botanique de France tient a vous exprimer ses plus vives 

 felicitations. 



Vos importants travaux ont assure a l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de 

 Philadelphie une place d'honneur parmi les socieies savantes d'Amenque. 



Nous formons le voeu que votre activite scientifique, tou jours en eveil, 

 continue a enrichir l'histoire naturelle d'importantes decouvertes qui contri- 

 bueront heureusement a illustrer a la fois, votre Academie et la science americaine. 



Le President de la Societe Botanique de France, 



R. Zeiller. 




cxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Southern California Academy of Sciences. 



Los Angeles. 

 The Southern California Academy of Science gratefully acknowledges the 

 invitation to attend the celebration of the One-hundredth year of the establish- 

 ment of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



We extend to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia our most 

 hearty congratulations for its phenomenal success, and for the many discoveries 

 in the several branches of science which have been made through its encourage- 

 ment and liberality, and which have tended to the advancement of the human 

 race during the last one hundred years. 



We, upon this distant Pacific Coast, a very young sister Academy, born but 

 twenty-one years ago, are glad to be able to place upon record, at this auspicious 

 event, our appreciation of the work of The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia and the good that has resulted from its labors. 



W. A. Spalding, 



President. 

 Holdridge 0. Collins, 

 Secretary. 



State of California 



; ss. 



County of Los Angeles 



} 



I, Holdridge Ozro Collins, Secretary of the Southern California Academy of 

 Sciences, do hereby certify that at the regular meeting of said Academy, held in 

 the City of Los Angeles, County and State aforesaid, on the 29th day of February, 

 1912, the foregoing Memorial was unanimously adopted. 



Witness my hand and the Seal of said Academy at said City of Los Angeles, 

 this fourth day of March, 1912. 



Holdridge Ozro Collins, 

 Secretary. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxvii 

 Stockholms Hogskola. 



To the President of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The University of Stockholm Stockholm's Hogskola wishes to send to The 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on its Centenary Anniversary, the 



most hearty congratulations on the admirable evolution of Natural Science in 



North America, which has taken place during the past seculum, and in which 



your Academy has taken such an active part. 



Having unfortunately no opportunity of accepting your kind invitation to 



send a representative, we must confine ourselves to send you in this way our very 



best wishes. 



On behalf of the Senate of the University of Stockholm, 



Ivar Bendixson. 

 Stockholm 11/3/1912. 



SvENSKA SXLLSKAPET FOR ANTROPOLOGI OCH GEOGRAFI. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Swedish Anthropological and Geographical Society begs to acknowledge 

 the receipt of your invitation to the Centenary Celebration of the founding of 

 your Academy. 



We very heartily rejoice at the occasion for congratulating your Academy, the 

 oldest institution of its kind in America for the pursuit of natural history re- 

 searches. We send this message to you with all the more eagerness and ardour 

 from the circumstance that your society originated and has flourished in a district 

 of America where fellow-countrymen of ours of an earlier day were among those 

 who first sowed the seeds of civilization. 



Emil Ekhoff. 

 J. G. Andersson E. W. Dahlgren Gerard DeGeer 



E. Nordenskiold Edw. Jaderin Axel Lagrelius 



Oscar Montelius A. G. Nathorst Sven Hedin 



Louis Palander Bernhard Salin Henrik Santesson 



Axel Wallen Gunnar Andersson. 



Stockholm, February 22, 1912. 



In a beautiful blue crushed levant ornamented portfolio. 




cxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



K. Svenska Vetenskapsakademien. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



On the occasion of your esteemed Academy celebrating the One Hundredth 

 Anniversary of her existence, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences desires to 

 join the various other scientific societies both in the New World and the Old, 

 who just now direct their congratulation to you. 



The connection of scientific interests which exists between your country and 

 our own dates back into the past. Peter Kalm, a pupil of the great Linnaeus and 

 a member of our Academy, devoted his researches to the virgin fields, which the 

 people of the United States have converted into one of the world's richest civilized 

 countries. Our published transactions and our archives contain many contri- 

 butions giving us information concerning the natural productions and conditions 

 of America. Among the thousands of emigrants which our country send you, 

 not a few have made themselves known as scientific students and have thus in 

 their adopted country done credit to the education they have received in the 

 homeland. 



The work of American scientists has, here in Sweden, always been studied 

 and appreciated, and has had a most beneficial effect on Swedish scientific work. 



For the part your Academy has taken in our efforts we, therefore, desire to 

 express our gratitude, and to wish you continued success in the great field of 

 natural science from which modern culture has reaped such rich harvests. 



E. W. Dahlgren, 



President. 

 Chr. Aurivillius, 



Secretary. 



Stockholm, 28th February, 1912. 



Superbly printed on folio sheet. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxix 



TSENTRALNAIA FlZICHESKAIA OBSERVATORIA NlCOLAS. 



To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Central Physical Observatory of Nicolas at St. Petersburg begs The 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to accept the sincerest congratu- 

 lations of the Observatory on the occasion of the completion of one hundred j r ears 

 of most active devotion to the cultivation of the natural sciences, one branch of 

 which forms the task of the Observatory. 



We wish most heartily that the Academy, the oldest institution of the United 

 States for the study of the natural sciences, which has so much contributed to 

 the progress of these sciences, may in the next centuries of activity continue its 

 work with the same success. 



Director : 



M. Rykatchew 

 Vice Director: 



Ed. Stelling 

 Scientific Secretary: 

 E. Heintz. 

 St. Petersburg, 19 March, 1912. 



Tokyo Geographical Society. 



Tokyo, March 9th, 1912. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



We return our hearty thanks for your kind letter, inviting us to send a delegate 

 to attend the glorious celebration of the Centenary Anniversary of your Academy. 

 Your Academy, born as it was in the days when Geography was in its cradle, 

 has ever since rendered great services to the progress of the natural sciences in 

 the world. As the celebration assumes the double importance on that account, 

 we should feel very anxious to be present at the celebration if we could. We, 

 however, greatly regret to have to inform that various circumstances hinder us 

 from sending you a delegate of our own. 



Again with many thanks for your kind invitation and with our heartfelt 

 wishes that the celebration will prove a great success, 



We have the honour to remain, Sir, 



KlNOSUKE INOUYE, 



General Secretary. 




cxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



R. Universita degli Studi, Bologna. 



Universitas Litterarum et Artium Bononiensis Academiae Disciplinarum 

 Naturalium quse abhine Annos C Philadelphia condita est, in urbe prseclara 

 cuius ipsum nomen et gentes hominum et doctrinas de sororio vinculo monere 

 videtur, modo felicem ilium natalem est rite celebratura de expletis ante muneri- 

 bus partaque laude gratulatur, uberrimos industrial fructus in posterum exoptat. 



Leo Pesci 

 Rector Universitatis. 

 X. Kal. Mart. MCMXII. 

 Superbly engrossed and decorated on folio parchment sheet. 



Universita di Torino. 



Torino, Addi I Marzo, 1912. 

 Illmo Signor Presidente: 



Ho ricevuto il gentile invito da cotesta Accademia di Scienze naturali rivolto 

 alia nostra Universita di farsi rappresentare alle Feste che avranno luogo prossi- 

 mamente in Filadelfia nella ricorrenza del Centenario della fondazione della 

 Accademia stessa. 



A nome anche del corpo insegnante di questo Ateneo, che ho l'onore di 

 presiedere, ringrazio vivamente per cosi delicato pensiero la gloriosa Accademia 

 di Filadelfia, la quale, assai apprezzata anche in Italia, giustamente si propone 

 di celebrare, con la maggiore solemnity, la sua secolare esistenza, tuta dedicata 

 al progresso delle Scienze Naturali. 



Ma poiche, per la grande distanza, non sara possibile inviare uno speciale 

 delegato, prego la cortesia della S. V. Illma di voler rappresentare a tali Feste 

 la R. Universita di Torino. 



Con il maggiore ossesquio 



II Rettore 

 N. Ruffini 



All' Illmo Signor Presidente dell'Accademia di Scienze Naturali Filadelfia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxi 



Universitat Heidelberg. 



Heidelberg, den 7, Marz 1912. 

 Fur die freundliche Einladung zu Ihrer Jubelfeier sagen wir herzlichen Dank. 

 Es ist uns zu unsrem lebhaften Bedauern nicht moglich, einen Vertreter unsrer 

 Hochschule zur Ueberbringung unsrer Gltickwunsche zu entsenden. So ent- 

 bietet die alteste Universitat des Deutschen Reiches, die Ruperto-Carola, der 

 altehrwtirdigen Akademie der Naturwissenschaften zur Feier des hundert- 

 jahrigen Bestehens hiermit die besten Wunsche: Moge es der Akademie ver- 

 gonnt sein, wie im abgelaufenen Jahrhundert so auch fernerhin die Naturwissen- 

 schaften zu pflegen und zu fordern. 



Namens der Universitat Heidelberg 



v. Duhn 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



d. Zt. Prorektor. 



K. K. Universitat, Wien. 



Akademischeb Senat 



der K. K. Universitat 



Wien 



Z. 884 ex 1911/12. 



Wien, am 23. Februar 1912. 

 Euer Hochwohlgeboren hatten die Freundlichkeit, die Universitat Wien zur 

 Teilnahme an der am 19., 20. und 21 Marz 1912 stattfindenden hundertjahrigen 

 Bestandfeier der Akademie einzuladen. 



Leider ist infolge anderweitiger bereits ubernommener Verpflichtungen der 

 in Betracht kommenden Personlichkeiten die Entsendung eines Vertreters zu 

 dem Feste unmoglich ge word en und ich muss mich daher begniigen, auf diesem 

 Wege zugleich mit dem Danke der Wiener Universitat fiir die freundliche Ein- 

 ladung auch die besten Gliickwunsche zu dieser Feier zu ubermitteln. 



Der Rektor k. k. Universitat: 



Redlich 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




cxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Universitat, Zurich. 



Zurich, den 1. Marz 1912. 

 Das Rektorat der Hochschule Zurich an die Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia: 



Empfangen Sie verbindlichen Dank des unterzeichneten Rektors und des 

 Senates der Universitat Zurich fiir die freundliche Einladung zu dem bevor- 

 stehenden lOOjahrigen Jubelfest Ihrer Academie. 



Leider ist es uns nicht vergonnt, uns durch eine personliche Abordnung an 

 dem Feste vertreten zu lassen; um so mehr drangt es uns, Ihnen unsere besten 

 Gluckwtinsche darzubringen fiir die Anerkennung, welche Ihre Academie durch 

 ihre wissenschaftliche und erzieherische Wirksamkeit sich erworben hat. Wir 

 verbinden damit den Ausdruck unseres herzlichen Wunsches und unserer zuver- 

 sichtlichen Hoffnung, dass Ihre Academie in gesegneter Weise weiter wirken moge 

 fiir die Erkenntnis der Wahrheit und fiir das Wohl des Volkes. 



In diesem Streben wissen wir uns mit Ihnen verbunden zu einer von den 

 nationalen Grenzen nicht gehemmten Einheit des Geistes. 



Zugleich wiinschen wir Ihrem Feste einen gliicklichen Verlauf . 

 Im Namen der Universitat Zurich 



i. A. Der z. Rektor: 

 Arnold Meyer 

 Prof. publ. ordin. S.S. Theologise Doctor. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxiii 



University Catholique de Louvain. 



Lou vain, le 24 fevrier 1912. 

 Monsieur le Secretaire: 



Je suis charge 1 d'exprimer a l'Academie des Sciences naturelles de Phila- 

 delphie, les remerciments de l'Universite de Louvain, pour sa gracieuse invita- 

 tion aux fetes du Centenaire de cet illustre Corps savant. 



L'Universite de Louvain regrette vivement que l'epoque choisie pour la 

 celebration de ces fetes ne permette pas a ses professeurs de s'absenter, et forme 

 ainsi obstacle a l'envoi d'un delegue\ Force lui est done de se borner a s'associer 

 de loin, mais de tout cceur, aux felicitations et aux vceux qui, en ces jours, 

 seront addresses a l'Academie de Philadelphie. 



Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Secretaire, l'assurance de ma haute consideration. 



Pour le Conseil Rectoral 



Le Secretaire 

 J. Van Biervliet 

 A Monsieur le Secretaire de l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie. 



University de Lyon. 



Lyon, le 27 Fevrier 1912. 

 La jeune Universite de Lyon est heureuse d'adresser par dela l'Atlantique 

 son salut le plus cordial a l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles de Philadelphie et 

 d'exprimer a sa sceur aine Americaine ses sentiments d'affectuese confraternity 

 et ses felicitations les plus vives a l'occasion des fetes du Centenaire de cette 

 illustre Compagnie. 



Tous les naturalistes d'Europe qui ont visite la grande cite de Philadelphie 

 connaissent, pour les avoir longuement admirees la magnifique bibliotheque de 

 l'Academie des Sciences Naturelles et ses remarquables collections dues a l'initi- 

 ative et aux travaux de deux savants illustres entre tous dans les annales de la 

 science paieontologique, Jos. Leidy et Edw. Cope. C'est sous les auspices de ces 

 deux hommes eminents que l'Universite de Lyon desire placer cette adresse 

 destinee a apporter aux naturalistes de Pennsylvanie, a defaut d'un representant 

 attitre l'hommage de sa sincere admiration, et de sa plus profonde sympathie. 



Le Recteur, 

 President du Conseil de l'Universite, 



P. Joubin. 




cxxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



R. Universiteit, Leiden. 



Academiae Disciplinarum Physicarum Philadelphiensi S. p. d. Universitatis 



Lugduno-Batavae Rector et Senatus. 



Quod nos ad ferias saeculares mense Martio Vobis celebrandas invitatis 

 insigni nos a Vobis affectos honore penitus sentimus. Quo magis dolemus quod 

 magnum terrarum mariumque spatium quominus humanissima ilia invitatione 

 utamur obstat. Sed quamquam lactis illis diebus e nostro munero nemo istuc 

 legari poterit, tamen omnes mente animoque tunc Vobiscum gaudebimus. Et 

 iam nunc pro illustri Vestra Academia ex animi sententia vota suscipimus 

 solemnia. 



Vivat, crescat, floreat et facem humanitatis praeferre omnibus pergat quibus 

 bonae artes cordi sunt ! 



Lugd. Batav. die XXVII Menis Februarri MCMXII 



F. PlJPER 



Rector magnificus. 



B. D. Erdmans, 



Actuarius. 

 On folio sheet with seal of University. 



University of Cambridge. 



Registry of the University of Cambridge, England, 14 March, 1912. 

 To the President of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Sir: 



I have the honor to inform you that the Senate of the University at a 

 congregation held this day in the Senate House appointed Ernest William 

 Brown, Doctor of Science, formerly Fellow of Christ's College, Professor of 

 Mathematics in the University of Yale, to represent the University at the 

 Centenary Anniversary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia in 

 March, 1912. 



I have the honor to be, Sir, 



Your obedient Servant 



John Neville Keynes, 



Registrary. 

 Seal. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxv 



University of Cincinnati. 



Office of the President. 



The President and Faculties of the University of Cincinnati acknowledge, 

 with much appreciation, the invitation to be represented at the celebration of 

 the One hundredth Anniversary of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. They regret that it is not possible to send a delegate to convey to the 

 members of the Academy their hearty congratulations upon the completion of 

 one hundred years of noble service, and their cordial good wishes for the successful 

 continuation of its important work. 



The twentieth of March, Nineteen Hundred and Twelve. 



University op Colorado. 



The University of Colorado begs to convey to The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia its most sincere congratulations on the occasion of the 

 Centenary of the Academy. At a time when our State was a wilderness 

 unvisited by scientific men, the Academy was laying the foundations of 

 American Biological Science. During the past century its unceasing activities 

 have contributed enormously to the knowledge of the fauna and flora of the West. 

 We hope that the Academy will enjoy even greater prosperity in the future than 

 it has in the past, and that the coming century will see active cooperation between 

 it and our developing western institutions. 



Beautifully engrossed. 




cxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



University of Edinburgh. 



20th March, 1912. 

 Dear Sir: 



On behalf of the Senatus Academicus of the University of Edinburgh, I beg 

 to convey cordial thanks to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 for the invitation to be represented at the Celebration of the Academy's Cen- 

 tenary Anniversary. I am to say that the Senatus greatly regret that the invi- 

 tation did not reach them in sufficient time to enable them to arrange for the 

 attendance of Delegates. 



The Senatus send their warm congratulations to the Academy on the auspi- 

 cious occasion and their best wishes for the Academy's future prosperity, and 

 they trust the Celebrations are being carried through with the greatest success. 



Yours faithfully, 



L. J. Grant, 

 Sec. Sen. Acad. 

 Corresponding Secretary, The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxvii 



University of Notre Dame. 



Notre Dame, Indiana, June 1, 1912. 

 To the Secretary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Sir: The Centenary of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 offers an appropriate and most welcome occasion to express the admiration 

 which the University of Notre Dame has always entertained for the work of that 

 distinguished body. The history of its activities during the hundred years of 

 its existence shows its connection with so many of the great achievements and 

 its services to individuals and causes have been so great and so many that the 

 story of the Academy must have an important place in any history of scientific 

 development in the nineteenth century. 



Its work has been done unselfishly and in a spirit of high devotion to the 

 advancement of learning and the profit of humanity. For this reason the world 

 of learning acclaims it in its centenary year and wishes it continued power in its 

 beneficent mission. 



The University of Notre Dame feels it an honor to associate itself with the 

 great schools that pay tribute to this venerable Academy. 



Very truly yours, 



John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., 

 President. 




cxxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



University of Pennsylvania. 



The Provost, Trustees, and Faculties of the University of Pennsylvania 

 cordially congratulate The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia on its 

 Centennial Celebration to be held upon March 19th to 21st, and extend their 

 best wishes upon this auspicious occasion. 



The Provost has commissioned Josiah Harmar Penniman, Ph.D., LL.D., 

 the Vice Provost of the University, to represent it at the ceremonies and to be 

 the personal bearer of its congratulations. 



(Seal) Edward Robins, 



Secretary to the Board of Trustees. 



Philadelphia, Pa., March 19th, 1912. 



University of Pittsburgh. 



The University of Pittsburgh extends its greetings and congratulations to the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia upon the completion of one hundred 

 years of its honorable and useful career and expresses its best wishes for greater 

 prosperity and an enlarged sphere of achievement during the coming years in the 

 important field which it occupies. 



Samuel Black McCormick, Chancellor, William Jacob Holland, former 

 Chancellor, and George Hubbard Clapp, President of the Board of Trustees, are 

 appointed delegates of the University at the Centennial Anniversary and are 

 authorized to present these greetings. 



Samuel Black McCormick, 



Chancellor. 

 S. B. Linhart, 



Secretary. 

 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, March Eighteenth, Nineteen Hundred and 

 Twelve. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxix 



University of Virginia. 



University of Virginia, March 12, 1912. 

 The President and Faculty of the University of Virginia desire to present to 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia their hearty congratulations 

 on the completion of a century of scientific activity and achievement. Founded 

 at a time when the study of nature in this country was followed by but few 

 students, and organized societies for the advancement of such study were in 

 existence at but two or three widely separated points, the Academy has held an 

 honorable place and has contributed largely to the results of scientific research in 

 America. May the second century of its existence be marked by as vigorous 

 and fruitful life as that which closes so auspiciously. 



Edwin A. Alderman, 

 President. 



9* JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA.. VOL XV 




cxxx PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



C. K. Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka i Lemberg. 



The Rector and the Senate of the Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka I 

 in Lemberg have the honor hereby to transmit their sincere congratulations and 

 the expressions of highest esteem and respectful friendship to The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, on the day when the Academy is celebrating 

 the joyful event of its Centenary Anniversary. 



The University of Lemberg is one of the only two surviving Polish universities, 

 while the places of learning in other parts of Poland have been destroyed by 

 foreign tyrannic force and oppression. 



The University sympathizes deeply with the Academy, as one of the most 

 ancient and most renowned scientific institutions of the New World, not only 

 because of the common bond of affinity, uniting the learned societies and insti- 

 tutions of all countries and all nations, but also because the Academy is a repre- 

 sentative of the Country of Freedom. 



May the Academy continue the scientific work which has made famous its 

 name all over the world, and may Science contribute towards raising of mankind 

 from tyrannic barbarism to real humanity. 



Lemberg, March 10th, 1912. 



L. FlNKEL, 



Rector of University. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxxi 



Verein fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg. 



Stuttgart, den 16 Februar 1912. 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Indem ich fur die ehrenvolle und freundliche Einladung zur 100-Jahrfeier 

 Ihrer Gesellschaft meinen verbindlichsten Dank ausspreche, mochte ich mir 

 erlauben, namens des Vereins fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg 

 Ihrer Akademie die warmsten Gltickwunsche zu dieser Feier auszudriicken. 

 Mit Stolz kann Ihre Akademie auf die hundertjahrige Tatigkeit zuriickblicken, 

 in welcher sie fur die wissenschaftliche Durchforschung der Vereinigten Staaten 

 so Ausserordentliches geleistet hat. Seien Sie iiberzeugt, dass auch unsere 

 Gesellschaft Ihre Bestrebungen im vollsten Maasse anerkennt und Sie zu Ihren 

 Erfolgen begliickwunscht. 



Leider ist es mir nicht moglich, personlich unsere Gluckwiinsche zu uber- 

 bringen, und ich bitte deshalb, dieselben auf diesem Wege anzunehmen. 



Mit dem Ausdruck vorzuglicher Hochachtung Der Vorsitzende des Vereins 

 fur vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wurttemberg 



Professor Dr. E. Fraas. 



Verein zur Verbreitung Naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse 



IN WlEN. 



IV., k. k. teclmische Hochschule. 

 An die Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



Der Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher Kenntnisse in Wien 

 sendet The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia zur 100 Jahrfeier die 

 besten Gltickwunsche. 



In den ersten Jahrzehnten des Bestandes der Vereinigten Staaten, als erste 

 naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft daselbst gegriindet, hat The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia bis heute in ausgedehntem Masse die natur- 

 wissenschaftliche Erkenntnis in ihrem Vaterlande gefordert und sich dadurch 

 grosse Verdienste erworben. Dass diese bedeutende Tatigkeit der Academie 

 noch recht lange andauern moge, wunscht unser Verein aufrichtigst. 



Hofr. Prof. Dr. Franz Toula, 

 1st Vice Prasident. 

 Wien, am 23. Februar 1912. 




cxxxii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, Philadelphia. 



To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology extends its felicitations and 

 congratulations to The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and, owing 

 to the close affiliation which exists between the two institutions, joins with 

 special satisfaction in the celebration of the Centenary Anniversary. 



On this occasion, The Wistar Institute delegates its Director as the Repre- 

 sentative to take part in these festivities. 



Edgar F. Smith, 



President 

 Milton J. Greenman, 

 Secretary. 

 March 19, 1912. 



K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft, Wien. 



111/3, Mechelgasse Nr. 2. 

 To The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia: 



The K. K. Zoologisch-Botanische Gesellschaft sends by the present her cordial 

 congratulations for the honourable commemoration to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



On this occasion she thinks thankfully on the great merits which the Academy 

 has acquired for the advancement of the science in general and the organization 

 of scientifical works in North America and joins in the sincere wishes for the 

 future and begs of continuation of the cordial relations. 

 Vienna, the 8th March, 1912. 

 Das Prasidium der K. K. Zoologisch-Botanischen Gesellschaft. 



Prof. Dr. R. v. Wettstein, 



Praesident. 

 Dr. Franz Ostermeyer 



Vice Praesident. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxxiii 

 Zoologische Gesellschaft, Hamburg. 



Hamburg, den 15 Febr. 1912. 

 Mit dem Ausdruck verbindlichsten Dankes bestatigt die Zoologische Gesell- 

 schaft in Hamburg die Einladung zur Beteiligung an der Feier des hundert- 

 jahrigen Jubilaeums der Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Die 

 Zoologische Gesellschaft wird leider nicht in der Lage sein durch einen Vertreter 

 an diesem Ehrentage teilzunehmen und der Jubilarin ihre aufrichtigsten Gliick- 

 wiinsche zu ubermitteln. Sie bittet dies zu entschuldigen und auf diesem Weg 

 die Versicherung entgegenzunehmen, dass ihre besten Wunsche fur ein ferneres 

 Bliihen und Gedeihen die Academy in das zweite Jahrhundert ihres Bestehens 

 begleiten. 



Die Zoologische Gesellschaft in Hamburg. Der Vorstand. 



Prof. Dr. F. Vosseler. 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



K. Zoologisches und Anthropologisch-Ethnographisches Museum. 



Dresden A, Zwinger, 13 Februar 1912. 



An die Academy of Natural Sciences Philadelphia: 



Mit Interesse habe ich davon Kenntnis genommen, dass die Academy, eine 

 der altesten Pflanzstatten der Naturwissenschaften in der Neuen Welt, dem- 

 nachst die Feier ihres lOOjahrigen Bestandes begehen wird. Wenn ich auch 

 nicht in der Lage bin, die Gluckwunsche der von mir geleiteten Anstalt selbst 

 zu iiberbringen, so benutze ich doch die mir giitigst ubermittelte Einladung dazu, 

 um Ihrer Korperschaft meine Freude uber die Vollendung jenes Zeitabschnittes 

 auszusprechen, zugleich mit dem Ausdrucke meiner wahren Verehrung fur die 

 wahrenddem von ihr zutage geforderten grossen Leistung auf unserem gemein- 

 samen Arbeitsgebiete. Ich kniipfe daran den aufrichtigen Wunsch, dass die 

 weitere Entwicklung der Academy ihr jederzeit erlauben moge, ihren selbstge- 

 steckten Zielen mit gleicher Tatkraft und mit denselben schonen Erfolgen 

 nachzustreben, wie es im verflossenen Jahrhundert der Fall war. 



In aller Hochschatzung 



A. Jacobi 

 Direktor. 




cxxxiv PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 

 Other letters were received from the following : 



R. ACADEMIA DE ClENCIAS Y ARTES DE BARCELONA. Louis M. Vidal, 



President. 



Academia Nacional de Historia, Bogota. Pedro M. Haiier. 

 Acadeimie d'Arras. G. Acrement, President. 



ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES INSCRIPTIONS ET BELLES-LETTRES DE TOULOUSE. 



Henri Dumeril, Secretaire perp^tuel. 



R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici, Siena. Prof. Dominico Barduzzi, President. 



Accademia Scientifica Veneto-Trentino-Istriana, Padova. Prof. G. 

 Dal Piaz, President. 



R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Charles Sedgwick Minot. 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Modena. Francesco Nicoli, 

 President. 



American Academy op Arts and Sciences, Boston. Edwin H. Hall, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



American Physiological Society. S. J. Meltzer, President; A. J. Carlson, 

 Secretary. 



K. Anatomisches Institut, Halle a S. W. Roux. 



Anthropological Society of Bombay. Jivanji Jamshedji Modi, Hon. 

 Secretary. 



Archaeological Institute of America, Pennsylvania Society. George 

 Barton, Secretary. 



Asiatic Society of Bengal, Calcutta. G. H. Tipper, Hon. Secretary. 



Lord Avebury, London. 



Ayers, Howard, Cincinnati. 



Baltzer, A., Bern. 



Barrois, Charles, Paris. 



Bataafsh Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke Wijsbegeerte te 

 Rotterdam. Dr. R. H. van Dorsten, 1st Secretary. 



K. Bayer. Julius-Maximilians-Universitat, Wurzburg. Karl Bernhard 

 Lehman, Rector. 



K. Bayer. Oberbergamt, Munchen. Ludwig v. Ammon. 



Bedel, L., Paris. 



Berliner Entomologischer Verein. Paul Schulz, Secretary. 



Biltmore Herbarium. C. D. Beadle, Director. 



Biologische Versuchsanstalt in Wien. H. Przibram, Director. 



R. Botanic Garden, Calcutta. A. T. Gage, Superintendent. 



R. Botanic Gardens, Kew. D. Prain, Director. 



R. Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, Ceylon. 



Boulenger, G. A., London. 



Brady, Dr. G. S., Sheffield. 



Branner, John Casper, Stanford University. 



Britton, N. L., New York. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxxv 



Brown University, Providence. W. H. P. Faunce, President. 



Brunton, Sir Lauder, London. 



Bureau of Science, Manilla. Richard P. Strong. 



California State Mining Bureau, San Francisco. W. H. Storms, State 

 Mineralogist. 



Capellini, Prof. Giovanni, Bologna. 



Cardiff Naturalists' Society. William Sheen, President. 



Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh. W. N. Frew, President; S. H. Church, 

 Secretary. 



Carnegie Institution of Washington, Station for Experimental Evo- 

 lution, Cold Spring Harbor. 



Cartailhac, Emile, Toulouse. 



Centro de Sciencias, Letras e Artes, Campinas. 



Chantre, Ernest, Fontville, par Ecully, Rhone. 



Club Alpin de Crimee et du Caucase, Odessa. E. Molthanoff, Vice- 

 President; A. Alexejev, Secretary. 



Club Alpin Suisse. Charles Maerky, Secretary. 



Cockerell, Theo. D. A., Boulder, Colorado. 



Collett, R., Christiania. 



Colorado College, Colorado Springs. Jonathan A. Rorer, Ph.D. 



Cooke, M. C, London. 



Danische Laboratorium fur Susswasser Biologie. D. Wesenburg- 

 Lund, Director. 



Dansk Botansk Forening, Kobenhavn. L. Kolderup Rosenvinge, 

 President. 



Danske Biologisk Station, Kobenhavn. C. G. Joh. Petersen. 



K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Kobenhavn. H. G. Zeuthen, 

 Hon. Secretary. 



Davenport Academy of Sciences. J. H. Paarman, Secretary. 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Samuel C. Palmer, Sec. pro tern. 



Department of Agriculture, Cape Town. 



Department of Agriculture, Kingston. H. H. Cousins, Director. 



Department of Agriculture, Trinidad and Tobago. W. G. Freeman, 

 Asst. Director. 



Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of Fisheries, Washing- 

 ton, D. C. George M. Bowers, Commissioner. 



Department of Commerce and Labor, Coast and Geodetic Survey, 

 Washington, D. C. O. H. Tittmann, Superintendent. 



Department of Mines, Perth. H. L. King, Secretary. 



Deutsche Mikrologische Gesellschaft, Munchen. Rl. France. 



Deutscher Verein zum Schutze der Vogelwelt, Gera-Reuss. Dr. 

 Hennicke. 



Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein, Wien. Dr. Duges. 




cxxxvi PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Ecole Nationale d 'Agriculture de Montpellier. Paul Ferrouillat, 

 Director. 



Entomological Society of Ontario. F. M. Webster. 



Essex Institute, Salem. George Francis Dow, Secretary. 



Field Naturalists' Club, Brisbane. C. W. Holland, Hon. Secretary. 



Forel, Dr. A., Yvorne. 



Friedrich Wilhelms-Universitat, Berlin. M. Lenz, Rector. 



Fiirbringer, Max., Heidelberg. 



Geikie, Archibald, London. 



Geological Society of South Africa, Johannesburg. W. W. R. Jags, 

 Asst. Secretary. 



Geological Society of Tokyo. N. Yamasaki, Hon. Secretary. 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta. 



R. Geologisch-Mineralogisch Museum, Leiden. K. Martin. 



Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde, Berlin. Alb. Penck, Vorsitzender. 



Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde zu Leipzig. Herm. Reishauer, Secretary. 



Gesellschaft von Freunden der Naturwissenschaften, Gera-R. Fr. 

 Moos, Anton Renz, With. Israel, Franz Weise, Ernst Kretschmer, Alfred 

 Auerbach. 



Gesellschaft fur Morphologie und Physiologie, Munchen. Ludwig 

 Neumayer, M.D., President. 



Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde zu Dresden. Prof. Dr. 

 Rietschel, Secretary. 



Gesellschaft fur Voelker- und Erdkunde zu Stetten. G. Buschan, 

 President. 



Gill, Dr. Theo. N., Washington, D. C. 



Godman, F. D., Horsham. 



Goteborgs Museum. Carl Lagerburg, Director. 



Goldschmid, V., Heidelberg. 



Gosselet, J., Lille. 



Government Fisheries Bureau, Tuticorin. James Hornell, Superin- 

 tendent. 



Government Museum, Madras. 



Graff, L. v., Graz. 



Grant, Sir James, Ottawa. 



Guernsey Society of Natural Science. T. W. M. de Guerin, President. 



Haeckel, Ernst, Jena. 



Herculais, Jules Kiinckel d\ 



Hertwig, Richard, Munchen. 



Hirase, Y., Kyoto. 



Hirnanatomisches Institut, Zurich. Constantin v. Monakow, Director. 



Hochstetter, A., Wien. 



Hoernes, Moritz, Wien. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxxvii 



Hoyle, William Evans, Cardiff. 



Hubrecht, A. A. W., Utrecht. 



Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, D. C. John F. Anderson, Director. 



Indian Museum, Calcutta. N. Annandale, Secretary. 



Institut General Psychologique, Paris. 



Institut National Genevois. B. P. C. Hochreutiner, Secretary. 



Institute of Jamaica, Kingston. Frank Cundall, Secretary. 



Instituto Geologico de Mexico. Jose 1 G. Aguilera, Director. 



Instituts Solvay, Bruxelles. Emile Wexweiler, Director. 



Institutul Geologic al Romaniei, Bucuresti. V. Popovici-Hatzeg, 

 Director. 



Iowa Academy of Science, Des Moines. 



R. Irish Academy, Dublin. 



Jardin Imperial de Botanique de St. Petersbourg. A. Fischer de 

 Waldheim, Director. 



Judd, John W., Kew. 



Jugoslavenske Akademije Znanosti i Umjetnosti, Zagreb. Dr. A. 

 Music, Secretary. 



K. k. Karl Franzens-Universitat, Graz. Franz Hauke, Rector. 



Kjobenhavns Universitet. F. Buhl, Rector. 



Lang, Arnold, Zurich. 



Lankester, Sir Ray, London. 



K. Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie der Naturfor- 

 scher, Halle. A. Wangerin, President. 



Libbey, William, Princeton. 



Lunds Universitet, Lund. Axel Koch, Principal. 



K. Lyzeum Hosianum zu Braunsberg. Jos. Kolberg, Rector. 



A. Magyar Nemzeti Muzeum Igazgat6saga, Budapest, v. Szdlay 

 Imre, Director. 



A. M. Nemzeti Muzeum, Zoological Section. Geza Horvath, Director. 



Kir. Magyar Tudomany-Egyetem, Budapest. I. Frohlich, Rector. 



Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society. R. F. Hinson, Asst. 

 Sec. 



Marlborough College Natural History Society. Edward Meyrich, 

 President. 



Martin, K., Leiden. 



Mineralogical Society, London. George T. Prior, Hon. General Secre- 

 tary. 



Miramichi Natural History Association, Chatham, N. B. J. Baxter, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



Monterosato, Marchese de, Palermo. 



Montgomery, Thomas L., Harrisburg. 



Morgan, C. Lloyd, Bristol. 




cxxxviii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Musee du Congo Belge. 



Musee d'Histoire Naturelle, Geneve. Maurice Bedot, Director. 



Museo de la Plata. Samuel A. Lafone Quevedo. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology, Cambridge, Mass. Samuel Henshaw, 

 Curator. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Marseille. G. Vasseur, Director. 



K. Museum fur Naturkunde, Berlin. A. Brauer, Director. 



Nansen, Fridtjof, Lysaker. 



Natural History Society of British Columbia, Victoria. L. Napier 

 Denison, Hon. Secretary. 



Natural History Society of Northumberland, Durham, and New- 

 castle-upon-Tyne. C. E. Robson, Hon. Secretary. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Basel. H. Veillon, President. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Emden. C. Hermann, Director; Wil- 

 helm Hahn, Secretary. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Freiburg i. Br. A. Kuhn. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle a. d. Saale. Rudolph Bencke, 

 President. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich. C. Schroter, President. 



Naturforschender Verein, Brunn. Anton Rzehak, Secretary. 



Naturhistorisches Landesmuseum von Karnten. Dr. Latzel, President; 

 Ernst v. Kiesewetter, Secretary. 



Naturhistorischer Verein der Preuss. Rheinlande u. Westfalens, 

 Bonn. G. Borchers, President; W. Voigt, Secretary. 



Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis zu Bautzen. F. A. Dr. 

 Med. Monnenmacher, Secretary. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Landshut i. B. Prosinger, President. 



Northamptonshire Natural History Society and Field Club, North- 

 ampton. H. N. Dixon, Hon. Secretary. 



North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club, Stone. W. Wells 

 Bladen, Hon. Secretary. 



Nova Scotian Institute of Science, Halifax. Harry Piers, Rec. Secre- 

 tary. 



Oberhessische Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde. Naturwis- 

 senschaftliche Abteilung, Giessen. Er. Kaiser, President. 



Oberlin College. Henry Churchill King, President. 



Obschestvo Ispytatelei Priody pri Imper. Kharkofskom Univer- 

 sitetie. L. Reinhard, President; M. Alexenko, Secretary. 



R. Orto Botanico di Modena. G. B. De Toni, Director. 



Osier, Sir William, Oxford. 



Physikalischer Verein zu Frankfurt a. M. Dr. Freund. 



Phytopathologisch Laboratorium "Willie Commelin Scholten," Am- 

 sterdam. Joh'a. Westerdijk, Directress. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxxxix 



Poulton, Edward B., Oxford. 



Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen, 

 Utrecht. J. L. Hoorweg, Secretary. 



Putnam, Fred'k W., Cambridge, Mass. 



Queensland Museum, Brisbane. R. Hamlyn-Harris, Director. 



Reid, Harry Fielding, Baltimore. 



Retzius, Gustav, Stockholm. 



Riviere, Emile, Paris. 



Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New York. 



Rothschild, Hon. Walter, Tring. 



Roux, W., Halle a. S. 



Royal Society of Canada, Ottawa. Duncan C. Scott, Hon. Secretary. 



Royal Society of New South Wales. J. H. Maiden, Hon. Secretary. 



Royal Society of Victoria. T. S. Hall. 



Sachs. (Grossherzogl. und Herzogl.) Gesamt-Universitat, Jena. Bis- 

 wanger, Prorektor. 



Sachsisch-Thuringischer Verein fur Erdkunde zu Halle a. S. A. 

 Schenck, Secretary. 



San Diego Society of Natural History. Ford A. Carpenter, Secretary. 



Sarawak Museum. 



Sars, G. O., Christiania. 



Sauvage, H. E., Boulogne-sur-Mer. 



Scharff, Robert F., Dublin. 



SCHLESISCHE GESELLSCHAFT FUR VATERLANDISCHE CULTUR, BrESLAU. 



Foerster. 



R. Scuola Superiore di Agricoltura in Milano. Costantino Gorini, 

 Director. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt a. M. 

 O. zur Strassen, Director. 



Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali, Milano. Marco de Marchi, 

 President. 



Society de Biologie, Paris. A. Pettit. 



Societe Botanique et d'Etudes Scientifiques du Limousin. Ch. Le 

 Gendre, President. 



Society Entomologique de France. J. de Gaulle, President. 



Societe francaise de Mineralogie, Paris. A. de Gramont, President. 



Societe Linneenne de Lyon. Paul Buy, Secretary. 



Societe des Naturalistes Luxembourgeois. F. Heuertz, Secretary. 



Societe Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles. Eug. Mayor, Presi- 

 dent. 



Society Royale des Sciences de Liege. J. Fairon, Secretary. 



Societe des Sciences de Nancy. 




cxl PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Societe des Sciences, des Aets et des Lettres du Hainaut. Paul 

 Faider, Secretary. 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles et Arch^ologiques de la Creuse, 

 Gueret. Delannoy, President. 



Societe Vaudoise d'Histoire et d'Archeologie, Lausanne. Charles 

 Gilliard, Secretary. 



Societe Royale Zoologique et Malacologique de Belgique, Bruxelles. 

 Francis J. Ball, President. 



Stadisches Museum fur Natur- und Heimatkunde, Magdeburg. Prof. 

 Dr. Martens, Director. 



State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, Col. Charles A. Lory, 

 President. 



State Natural History Museum, Springfield, III. A. R. Crook. 



Stav anger Museum, Stav anger. A. E. Ericksen, Director. 



Sternberg, Geo. M., Washington, D. C. 



Stirling Natural History and Archaeological Society. David B. Morris. 



Strasburger, E., Bonn. 



Suess, E., Wien. 



Teylers Stichting, Harlem. 



Thomas, 0., London. 



Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frauenfeld. Schmid, 

 President. 



Toula, Dr. Franz, Wien. 



Tromso Museum. L. A. Stav, Chairman. 



Trondhjems Biologiske Station. 0. Nordgaard, Director. 



Universidade do P6rto. F. Gomez Teixeira, Rector. 



R. Universita degli Studi di Padova. Vittorio Rossi, Rector. 



R. Universita di Pisa. D. Supino, Rector. 



R. Universita degli Studi di Siena. D. Barduzzi, Rector. 



K. Universitat Marburg. F. Schenek, Rector. 



Universite Egyptienne, Cairo. Prince Ahmed Fouad Pacha, President. 



Universite Laval, Quebec. A. E. Gosselin, Rector. 



Universite libre de Bruxelles. A. Lavachery, Secretary. 



Universite de Toulouse. A. Tapie, Rector. 



R. Universiteit, Groningen. G. C. Nijhoff, Rector. J. H. Kern, Secretary. 



R. Universiteit te Utrecht. C. Eijkman, Secretary. 



University of Athens. Sp. Lambros, Rector. 



University of London. Henry A. Miers, Principal. 



University of Montana, Missoula. C. A. Duniway, President. 



University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. Francis Venables, Presi- 

 dent. 



University of North Dakota, Grand Forks. Frank L. McVey, President. 



University of Oxford. Charles Sedgwick Minot. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. cxli 



Vejdovsky, F., Prag. 



Verein fur Erdkunde zu Dresden. B. Pattenhausen, President; Dr. 

 Rolle, Secretary. 



Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenberg, Rostock 

 i. M. Eugen Geinitz. 



Verein fur Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der Baar und der 

 angrenzenden Landesteile, Donaueschingen. Dr. Tumbult, President. 



Verein fur Naturkunde zu Cassel. B. Schaefer, Director. 



Verein fur naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung, Hamburg. M. 

 Beyle, Secretary. 



Vereinigte Friedrichs-Universitat Halle-Wittenberg. I. Veit, Rector. 



Vries, Hugo de, Amsterdam. 



Washington Academy of Sciences. Arthur L. Day, Corresponding 

 Secretary. 



Wiedersheim, Dr. R., Freiburg. 



Wijhe, J. W. van, Groningen. 



Wilder, Burt G., Brookline. 



Wilson, Edmund B., New York. 



Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft in Strassburg. H. Bresslau, President. 



Zoologisches Institut der Universitat, Marburg i. H. E. Korschelt. 



Cablegrams were received from the following: 



R. Accademia dei Lincei, Rome. Pietro Blaserna, President. 



K. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien. Boehm von Bawerk, President; 

 Friedrich Becke, Secretary. 



I. Akademija Nauk, St. Petersburg. S. F. Oldenburg, Secretary. 



K. Alexanders-Universetet i Finland, Helsingfors. Donner, Rector. 



Comite geologique de Russie, St. Petersburg. Tschernychew, Director. 



K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Copenhagen. Vilh. Thomsen, 

 President. 



Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft, Berlin. 



dorpater naturforscher-gesellschaft. 



R. Dublin Society. Ardilaun, President. 



Finska Vetenskaps Societeten, Helsingfors. Holsti, President; Anders 

 S. Donner, Secretary. 



Kaiser- Wilhelms Universitat, Strassburg. A. Ehrhard, Rector. 



Karpinsky, Alexander Petrovic, St Petersburg. 



Imp. Mineralogiceskoje Obscestvo, St. Petersburg. Karpinsky, 

 Director; Tschernychew, Secretary. 



Museu Paulista, Sao Paulo. H. von Ihering, Director. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Danzig. 



Polskiego Towarzystera Przyrodnikow im Kopernika. 



K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften, Berlin. Arthor Auwers, 

 Secretary. 




cxlii PROCEEDINGS OF THE CENTENARY MEETING. 



Imp. Russkoje Geograficeskoje Obscestvo, St. Petersburg. Seme- 

 nov-Tjan-Shanskij, Vice-President; Dostoievsky, Secretary. 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Frankfurt a. M. 



Societa Italiana per il Progresso delle Scienze, Rome. 



r. societas scientiarum upsaliensis. 



K. Universitetet i Upsala. 



Imp. University of Tokyo. 



Zoologische Station, Naples. 



Acknowledgment of these communications was made as follows, embodying 

 the action of the Academy taken at the meeting of April 16, 1912: 



Resolved: That The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 

 finds much encouragement and stimulus in the expressions of cordial congratula- 

 tion and recognition of its labors that reached it on the occasion of the celebra- 

 tion of the Centenary Anniversary of its Foundation. 



Resolved: That the Corresponding Secretary be instructed to convey to corre- 

 sponding institutions and members an expression of the Academy's warm 

 gratitude for their appreciation and courtesy. 



Samuel G. Dixon, 



President. 

 J. Percy Moore, 



Corresponding Secretary. 

 Edward J. Nolan, 

 Recording Secretary. 




INDEX. 



R. Academia de Ciencias y Artes de Barcelona, 

 letter, cxxxiv 



Academia Nacional de Historia, Bogota, letter, 



cxxxiv 



R. Accademia dei Fisiocritici, Siena, letter, 



cxxxiv 



Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali in Ca- 

 tania, delegate, ..... xliv 



R. Accademia dei Lincei, cablegram, . . cxli 



Accademia Scientifica Veneto-Trentino-Istriana, 

 letter, cxxxiv 



Accademia della Scienze di Torino, delegate, 



xlvii; 

 letter, ...... cxxxiv 



Accademia della Scienze fisiche e matematiche di 

 Napoli, delegate, ..... xliv 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Modena, 

 letter, cxxxiv 



R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti in 

 Padova, letter, liii 



I. R. Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli 



Agiati, Rovereto, delegate, . . xliv 



letter, liv 



Accademia di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti degli 

 Zelanti di Acireale, delegate, ... 1 



Acad6mie d' Arras, letter, . . . cxxxiv 



Acade'mie des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles 

 Lettres de Toulouse, letter, . . cxxxiv 



Acad^mie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des 

 Beaux Arts de Belgique, letter, . . lii 



Adams, Frank Dawson, delegate, . . xliii 



Adams, John W., delegate, .... xliii 



Aguilera, Jose 1 G., letter, . . . cxxxvii 



Ahmed Fouad Pacha, letter, . . . cxi 



AkademiaUmiejetnosci wKrakowie, letter . lv 



K. Akademie van Wetenschappen te Amsterdam, 

 letter, lvi 



K. k. Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien, 

 cablegram cxli 



I. Akademija Naiik, St. Petersburg, cablegram, 



cxli 



Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat, Freiburg i. Br., let- 

 ter, lvii 



K. Albertus-Universitat zu Konigsberg i. Pr., 

 letter, lviii 



Alderman, Edwin A., letter, . . cxxix 



K. Alexanders-Universetet i Finland, cablegram, 



cxli 



Alexejev, A., letter, .... cxxxv 



American Academy of Arts and Sciences, delegate, 



xlix 

 letter cxxxiv 



American Anthropological Association, delegates, 



xlv, xlvii 



American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, delegates, .... xlvi, xlvii 



American Association of Anatomists, delegate, 



xlvi 



American Association of Economic Entomologists, 

 delegate xlvi 



American Association of Economic Entomologists, 



letter, lix 



American Entomological Society, delegate, . xliv 

 American Geographical Society, delegate, . xlvii 

 American Institute of Mining Engineers, dele- 

 gates, xliii, xliv, xlvi 



American Microscopical Society, delegates, 



xlviii 



letter lx 



American Museum of Natural History, delegate, 



xlvii 



letter, lx 



American Ornithologists' Union, delegate, . xlv 

 American Philosophical Society, delegates, 



xlv, xlviii 

 . lxi 

 delegates, 

 xlvi, xlvii 

 cxxxiv 

 . xlvi 

 . xliii 

 . xliii 

 cxxxiv 

 letter, 

 cxxxiv 

 Anders, James M., committee on meetings and 



addresses, 

 Anderson, John F., letter, . 

 Anderson, Gunnar, letter, . 

 Andersson, J. G., letter, 

 Announcement of celebration, 

 Anthropological Society of 



letter 

 American 



Physiological Society, 



letter, 



American Society of Naturalists, delegate, 



Ames, Herman V., delegate, 



Amherst College, delegate, . 



Ammon, Ludwig v., letter, 



K. Anatomisches Institut, Halle a S., 



Bombay, 



vn 

 cxxxvii 

 . cxvii 

 . cxvii 

 viii 

 letter, 

 cxxxiv 



Appalachian Mountain Club, delegate, . xlix 

 Archaeological Institute of America, delegate, xliii 

 Archaeological Institute of America, Pennsylvania 

 Society, letter, .... cxxxiv 



Ardilaun, Lord, cablegram, . . . cxli 



Arnaud, A., letter, xciii 



"Ash of smooth muscle," E. B. Meigs and L. A. 



Ryan, xxiii 



Ashton, Thomas G., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 arranges for banquet, . 

 Asiatic Society of Bengal, letter, 

 Ateneo Veneto, delegate, 



letter, .... 

 Auerbach, Alfred, letter, 

 Aurivillius, Chr., letter, 

 Auwers, Arthur, cablegram, 

 Avebury, Lord, letter, 

 Ayers, Howard, letter, 

 Baily, William L., "Methods 



ING WILD BIRDS," 



Baker, J. Eugene, letter, 

 Balch, Edwin S., delegate, . 

 Ball, Francis J., letter, 

 Baltzer, A., letter, 

 Banquet, .... 

 Barduzzi, Dominico, letters, 



IX 



cxxxiv 

 . xlvi 

 . lxi 

 cxxxvi 

 cxviii 

 . cxli 

 cxxxiv 

 cxxxiv 



OF PHOTOGRAPH- 



. xxiv 



cv 



. xliii 



cxl 



cxxxiv 



. xxvi-xlii 



. cxl, cxxxiv 



cxliii 




cxliv 



INDEX. 



Barringer, Daniel M., committee on entertain- 

 ment, viii 



Barrois, Charles, letter, . . . cxxxiv 

 Barton, George A., delegate, . . . xliii 



letter, cxxxiv 



Bassoli, Giacomo G., letter, . . . cxiv 

 Bataafsch Genootschap der Proefondervindelijke 



Wijsbegeerte te Rotterdam, letter, . cxxxiv 

 Bawerk, Boehm von, cablegram, . . cxli 

 Baxter, J., letter, .... cxxxvii 

 K. Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften, 



letter, lxii 



K. Bayer. Julius-Maximilians-Universitat, letter, 



cxxxiv 

 K. Bayer. Oberbergamt, letter, 

 Beadle, C. D., letter, . 

 Becquerel, Jean, letter, 

 Bedel, L., letter, 

 Bedot, Maurice, letter, 

 Bela, Lengyel, letter, . 

 Bencke, Rudolph, letter, 

 Bendixson, Ivar, letter, 

 Berliner Entomologischer Verein, letter, 

 Berzeviczy, A., letter, 

 Beyle, M., letter, 

 Beyschlag (F.), letter, 

 Biltmore Herbarium, letter, 

 Biologische Versuchsanstalt, in Wien, 



cxxxiv 

 cxxxiv 

 . xciii 

 cxxxiv 



cxxxviii 

 xc 



cxxxviii 

 . cxvii 

 cxxxiv 

 xc 

 . cxli 

 . lxxxi 

 cxxxiv 

 letter, 

 cxxxiv 

 . xliii 

 cxxxix 



cxxxviii 

 . xliii 



Birkenbine, John, delegate, 

 Biswanger, letter, 

 Bladen, W. Wells, letter, . 

 Blaisdell, James Arnold, delegate, 

 Blankenburg, Hon. Rudolph, present at meet- 

 ing ix 



Address of welcome, . . . . x, xi 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



Remarks at banquet, . . . xxviii 



Blaserna Pietro, cablegram, . . . cxli 



Boehm, Walter M., delegate, . . . xliii 



Bond, Francis E., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 Boston Society of Natural History, delegates, 



xlvi, xlix 

 R. Botanic Garden, Calcutta, letter, . cxxxiv 

 R. Botanic Garden, Kew, letter, . cxxxiv 



R. Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya, letter, cxxxiv 

 Botanical Society of America, delegate, xlvii 



Botanical Society of Washington, delegates, 



xlvii, xlix 

 Botanischer Verein der Provinz Brandenburg, 



letter, lxiii 



xciii 



cxxxiv 



xciii 



cxxxiv 



cxxxiv 



cxxxiv 



cxxxviii 



cvii 



cxli 



Ixx 



lxiv 



xliii 



cxxxiv 



xliii 



Boule, Marcellin, letter, 



Boulenger, G. A., letter, 



Bouvier, L. E., letter, 



Bowers, George M., letter, 



Brady, G. S., letter, 



Branner, J. C., letter, 



Brauer, A., letter, . 



Braun, M., letter, . 



Bresslau, H., letter, 



Briquet, John, letter, 



British Museum of Natural History, letter, 



Britton, N. L., delegate, 



letter, . 

 Brown, Ernest William, delegate, 



Brown University, letter, . . . cxxxv 

 Brubaker, Albert P., committee on entertain- 

 ment, viii 



Brunton, Sir Lauder, letter, . . . cxxxv 

 Bryant, Henry Grier, preliminary committee, 



vii 



committee on finance, . . . viii 



"Governmental agencies in the advance- 

 ment op geographical knowledge in 

 the United States," . . . xxv 



present at banquet xxvi 



delegate, xliii 



Bryn, Hon. Helmar, delegate, . . xliii 



Bryn Mawr College, delegate, . . 1 



Buffalo Society of Natural Sciences, letter, lxv 



Buhl, F., letter, cxxxvii 



Bureau of American Ethnology, delegate, xlvi 

 Bureau of Animal Industry, delegate, . xlvii 

 Bureau of Entomology, delegate, . . xlviii 



letter, lxv 



Bureau of Plant Industry (U. S. Dept. Agric), 



delegate xlv 



Bureau of Science, Manila, letter, . . cxxxv 

 Burrill, Thomas J., delegate, . . . xliii 



Buy, Paul, letter, cxxxix 



Cadwalader, Hon. John, committee on invita- 

 tions, ...... vii 



committee on finance, . . . viii 



present at meeting, .... ix 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



California State Mining Bureau, letter, . cxxxv 



Calkins, Gary N., delegate, . . . xliii 



Calvert, Philip P., committee on printing and 



publication, vii 



delegate, xliii 



Campbell, William, delegate, . . . xliii 

 Canadian Institute, delegate, . . . xlv 



letter, lxvi 



Capellini, Giovanni, letter, . . . cxxxv 



Car, L., letter, lxxxiv 



Cardiff Naturalists' Society, letter,. . cxxxv 

 Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg, delegates, 



xliv, xlvi 



letter, ...... cxxxv 



Carnegie Institution of Washington, delegate, 1 



letter, lxvi 



Carnegie Institution of Washington, Station for 

 Experimental Evolution, Cold Spring Harbor, 



letter, cxxxv 



Carnegie Museum, Pittsburg, delegates, 



xliv, xlvi 



letter, lxvii 



Carpenter, Ford A., letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Carruccio, Antonio, letter, . . . cxiv 

 Cartailhac, Emile, letter, . . . cxxxv 

 Cathcart, E. P., delegate, . . . xliv 

 Catholic University of America, letter, . lxvii 



delegate, xlvi 



Cavanaugh, Rev. John, C.S.C., letter, . cxxvii 



Cech, J., letter, lxix 



Celakovsky, J., letter, .... lxix 

 Centro de Sciencias, Letras e Artes, Campinas, 



letter, cxxxv 



Ceska Akademie Cfoafe Frantiska Josefa pro 

 vedy, slovesnost a umeni, letter, . Ixviii 




INDEX. 



cxlv 



Karlo-Ferdinandova v 

 lxix 



C. K. Ceskd Universita 



Praze, letter, 

 Chantre, Ernest, letter, . 

 Chauveau, A., letter, 

 Chemical Society of London, delegate, 

 Chun, Carl, letters, 

 Church, S. H., letter, 

 Cincinnati Society of Naturai History, 



Clapp, George Hubbard, delegate, . 



letter, ..... 

 Clark, William Bullock, delegate, . 

 Cleeman, Richard A., delegate, 



letter, 



Club Alpin de Crim^e et du Caucase 



letter, 



Club Alpin Suisse, letter, 

 Cockerell, Theo. D. A., letter, 

 College of Physicians of Philadelphia 



letter, 



Collctt, R., letter 



Collins, Holdridge 0., letter, . 

 Colorado College, delegate, 



letter, ..... 



cxxxv 



xciii 



xlvii 



ex, cxi 



cxxxv 



letter, 



lxix 



xliv 



lxvii 



xliv 



xliv 



lxx 



Odessa, 



cxxxv 



cxxxv 



cxxxv 



delegates, 



xliv, xlvii 



lxx 



cxxxv 



cxvi 



xlix 



cxxxv 



K. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, letter, cxxxv 

 cablegram, ...... cxli 



Davenport Academy of Sciences, letter, . cxxxv 

 Davenport, Charles B., delegate, 



VI 1 



xlvi 

 xliv 

 cxli 

 xliv 



IX 

 AND 



xxii 

 xxvi 



Colton, H. Sellers, committee on invitations, 

 Columbia University, delegate, 



Colville, F. V., delegate 



Comit6 G^ologique de Russie, cablegram, 



Comstock, John H., delegate, 



Conklin Edwin G., committee on meetings, and 



addresses. ..... vii 



present at meeting 



"Experimental studies of nuclear 

 cell division," .... 



present at banquet,. 



Remarks as toastmaster, 



xxvi, xxxi, xxxv, xxxvii, xxxix, xliii 

 Connecticut Academy of Sciences, delegate, xlix 

 Connecticut Experimental Station, delegate, xliv 

 Conservatoire et Jardins Botanique (Herbier 

 Delessert), letter, .... lxx 



"Contribution to the paleontolggy of Trini- 

 dad," C. J. Maury, 

 Cook, Melville T., delegate, 

 Cooke, M. C, letter, 

 Coplin, W. M. C, delegate, 



letter, 

 Cornell University, delegate, 

 Costantin, J., . 

 Cousins, H. H., letter, 

 Crescini, V., letter, . 

 Cresson, Ezra T., delegate, 

 Crook, A. R., letter, 

 Cross, Whitman, delegate, 

 Cundall, Frank, letter, . 

 Curtin, Roland G., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 Dahlgren, E. W., letters, . . cxvii, cxviii 



Dal Piaz, G., letter cxxxiv 



Dall, William Healt, "Mollusk fauna of 



Northwest America,' ' . . . xxv 



Danische Laboratorium fur Susswasser Biologie, 



letter, cxxxv 



Dansk Botansk Forening, letter, . . cxxxv 

 Danske Biologisk Station, letter, . . cxxxv 



W JOURN. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA., VOL. XV 



XX111 



xliv 



cxxxv 



xliv 



civ 



xlviii 



xciii 



cxxxv 



liii 



xliv 



cxl 



xliv 



cxxxvii 



xliv 

 " David Alter, the first discoverer of spec- 



xxiii 

 xliv 

 xliv 

 xliv 

 cxli 

 cxvii 



xci 

 xliv 



cxl 



trum analysis," William J. Holland, 

 Davis, William L., delegate, . 

 Davis, William Morris, delegate, . 

 Davison, Alvin, delegate, 

 Day, Arthur L., letter, . 

 De Geer, Gerard, letter, 

 Deinega, V., letter .... 

 D'Invilliers, Edward, delegate, . 



Delannoy, letter 



Delaware County Institute of Science, delegate, 



xlviii 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, delegate, 



xlix 



letter, cxxxv 



Denison, L. Napier, letter, . . cxxxviii 

 Department of Agriculture (Cape Town) . cxxxv 

 Department of Agriculture, Kingston, . cxxxv 

 Department of Agriculture, Trinidad and Tobago, 



letter, cxxxv 



Department of Commerce and Labor, Bureau of 

 Fisheries, letter, ..... cxxxv 

 Department of Commerce and Labor, Coast and 

 Geodetic Survey, letter, . . . cxxxv 



Department of Mines, Perth, letter, . . cxxxv 

 Dercum, Francis X., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 de Schweinitz, George, committee on invitations, 



vii 

 Deutsche Botanische Gesellschaft, cablegram, 



cxli 

 Deutsche Geologische Gesellschaft, letter,. lxxi 

 Deutsche Mikrologische Gesellschaft, letter, cxxxv 

 Deutscher Naturwissenschaftlich-medizinischer 

 Verein fur Bohmen Lotos, letter, . . lxxii 

 Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein, 



letter, cxxxv 



Deutscher Verein zum Schutze der Vogelwelt, 



letter, cxxxv 



Ditmars, Raymond L., delegate, . . xliv 



Dixon, Edwin S., committee on finance, . viii 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



Dixon, H. N., letter, .... cxxxviii 



Dixon, Hon. Samuel G., chairman of centenary 



committee, ..... vii 



chairman of committee on finance, . viii 



forwards preparations, . . . ix 



present at meeting ix 



Introduction of the Mayor, . . x 



Address, ...... x-xx 



Remarks of acknowledgment, . . xxv 

 presides at banquet, .... xxvi 



Remarks at banquet, . . . xxxv 



delegate, xliv 



acknowledgment, .... cxlii 



Dixon, Samuel G., Mrs. Dixon, Miss Dixon, 



reception given by, .... ix 



Dodge, James Mapes, delegate, . . xlv 



Donaldson, Henry Herbert, "The history 



and zoological position of the albino 



rat," xxiii 



delegate, xlv 



Donner, Anders A., cablegram, . . . cxli 




cxlvi 



INDEX. 



Doolittle, Charles L., delegate, . . . xlv 

 Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft, cablegram, 



cxli 

 Dorsten, R. H. van., letter, . . . cxxxiv 

 Dow, George Francis, letter, , . . cxxxvi 

 Drinker, Henry Sturgis, delegate, . . xlv 



letter, ..... lxxxviii 



Duges, Dr., letter, cxxxv 



Duhn, v., letter cxxi 



Dumril, Henry, letter, .... cxxxiv 

 Duniway, C. A., letter, cxl 



Durrant, Jno. Hartley, letter, . . . lxxiii 



Dury, Chas., letter, lxix 



Dwight, Jonathan, delegate, . . . xlv 

 Ecole d'Anthropologie de Paris, delegate, xlvii 

 Ecole nationale d'Agriculture de Montpellier, 



letter, cxxxvi 



Ecole Polytechnique, delegate, . . . xlviii 



Ehlers, E., letter, Ixxxiii 



Ehrhard, A., cablegram, .... cxli 



Eijkman, C, letter, cxl 



Ekengren, W. A. F., delegate, . . . xlv 



Ekhoff, letter, cxvii 



Elistrator, A., letter, . . . . . xcii 

 Engineers' Society of Western Pennsylvania, 



delegate xlv 



Entomological Society of America, delegates, 



xliii, xlv, xlvi, 1 



letter, lxxiii 



Entomological Society of London, delegates, 



xliv, xlv 



letter, lxxiii 



Entomological Society of Ontario, delegate, 1 



letter, ...... cxxxvi 



Entomological Society of Washington, delegate, 1 



letter, Ixxiv 



Entomological Society of Western Pennsylvania, 



delegate, xlvi 



Erdmans, B. D., letter, .... cxxiv 

 Ericksen, A. E., letter, .... cxl 

 Essex Institute, letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Evans, John W., letter, .... lxxx 



Exhibitions, xxv 



"Experimental studies of nuclear and cell 



division," E. G. Conklin, . . . xxii 



"Experiments on adaptation of animals to 



higher temperatures," J. Loeb, . . xxiv 



Fabricius, letter, lvii 



Faider, Paul, letter, cxl 



Fairchild, David G., delegate, . . . xlv 

 Fairchild, H. L., letter, .... lxxix 



Fairon, J., letter, cxxxix 



Farlow, William Gibson, delegate, . . xlv 



Faull, Joseph Horace, delegate, . . . xlv 



"Fauna and flora of the New Jersey pine 



barrens," W. Stone, .... xxv 



" FAUNAL DIVISIONS OF EASTERN NORTH AMERICA 

 IN RELATION TO VEGETATION," S. Trotter, Xxiv 



Faunce, W. H. P., letter, .... cxxxv 

 Felt, Ephraim P., delegate, . . . xlv 

 Fenton, Thos. H., preliminary committee, vii 

 committee on meetings and addresses, vii 

 Fernald, Charles H., delegate, . . .xlv 

 Ferrouillat, Paul, letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Fewkes, J. Walter, delegate, . . . xlv 

 Field Naturalists' Club, Brisbane, letter, . cxxxvi 



Finkel, L., letter, cxxx 



Finska Vetenskaps Societeten, cablegram, . cxli 



Fletcher, L., letter, lxiv 



Foerster, letter, cxxxix 



Forbes, Stephen A., delegate, . . . xlv 



Forel, A., letter, cxxxvi 



Fox, Herbert, committee on entertainment, viii 

 Fox, William J., committee on printing and 



publication, 

 Fraas, E., letter, .... 



France^ Rl., letter, .... 

 Franklin Institute, delegate, 



letter, ...... 



Freeman, W. G., letter, 

 French, Howard B., delegate, 



letter, 



Freund, Dr., letter, .... 

 Freund, L., letter, .... 

 K. Frederiks Universitet, Kristiania, 



vn 

 . cxxxi 

 . cxxxv 

 . xliii 

 . lxxv 

 .cxxxv 



xlv 



ciii 



cxxxviii 



. lxxii 



delegate, 



xliii 



. lxxvi 



cxxxvi 



.cxxxv 



cxxxvii 



cxxxvi 



cxxxiv 



xlv 

 lxxix 



! x 

 cxxxix 



cxxxvi 



. cxli 



letter, 



Friederich Wilhelms-Universitet, letter, 

 Frew, W. N., letter, . 

 Frohlich, I., letter, 

 Furbringer, Max, letter, 

 Gage, A. T., letter, 

 Gager, Charles Stuart, delegate, 

 Gallina, Dr., letter, 

 Galloway, T. W., letter, 

 Gaulle, J. de, letter, 

 Geikie, Archibald, letter, 

 Geinitz, Eugen, letter, . 

 R. Geographical Society of London, delegate, 



xliii 



letter, lxxvii 



Geographical Society of Philadelphia, delegate, 



xliii 



letter, . .... lxxviii 



K. k. Geographische Gesellschaft, Wien, letter, 



lxxix 

 Geologists' Association of London, delegate, xliv 



letter lxxx 



Geological Society of America, delegate, xlix 



letter, lxxix 



Geological Society of London, delegates, 



xliii, xliv, xlix 

 Geological Society of South Africa, letter, cxxxvi 

 Geological Society of Tokio, letter, . cxxxvi 



Geological Society of Washington, delegates, 



xlvii, 1 

 Geological Survey of India, letter, . cxxxvi 



K. Geologische Landesanstalt, Berlin, letter, 



lxxxi 

 K. Geologisch-mineralogisch Museum, Leiden, 



letter, cxxxvi 



K. k. Geologische Reichsanstalt, letter, . lxxx 

 Georg-August-Universitat, Gottingen, . Ixxxii 

 Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde, Berlin, letter, cxxxvi 

 Gesellschaft f tir Erdkunde, Leipzig, letter, cxxxvi 

 Gesellschaft von Freunden der Naturwissen- 

 schaften, Gera-R., letter, . . . cxxxvi 

 Gesellschaft fur Morphologie und Physiologie, 



Munchen, letter, cxxxvi 



Gesellschaft fur Natur- und Heilkunde zu Dres- 

 den, letter, cxxxvi 



Gesellschaft fur Voelker- und Erdkunde zu 

 Stettin, letter cxxxvi 




INDEX. 



cxlvii 



K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, 



letter, lxxxiii 



Gill, Theodore N., present at banquet, xxvi 

 Remarks at banquet . . . xxxvi 



delegate, xlv 



letter, ...... cxxxvi 



Gilliard, Charles, letter, .... cxl 



Godman, F. D., letter, .... cxxxvi 



Goldschmid, V., letter, .... cxxxvi 



Gorini, Costantino, letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Goteborgs Museum, letter, . . . cxxxvi 

 Gordon, Clarence McC, delegate, . . xlv 



Gosselet, J., letter cxxxvi 



Gosselin, A. E., letter, .... cxl 



Government Fisheries Bureau, Tuticorin, letter, 



cxxxvi 



Government Museums, Madras, letter, . cxxxvi 



" Government agencies in the advancement 



op geographical knowledge in the United 



States," H. G. Bryant, . . . xxv 



Graff, L. v., letter, cxxxvi 



Gramont, A. de, letter, .... cxxxix 

 Grant, Sir James, present at meeting, . ix 



delegate, xlv 



letter, cxxxvi 



Grant, L. J., letter, cxxvi 



Greenman, Milton, J., committee on printing and 



publication, vii 



delegate, xlv 



letter, cxxxii 



Giirich, G., letter, xcix 



Guerin-Ganivet, F., letter, . . . lxxxviii 

 Guernsey Society of Natural Sciences, letter, 



cxxxvi 



Guye, Ph. A., letter cxii 



Haeckel, Ernst, letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Hahn, Wilhelm, letter, .... cxxxviii 

 Hall, T. S., letter, . .... cxxxix 



Harris, A. W., letter, .... cii 



Harrison, Charles Custis, present at banquet, xxvi 

 Harrison, Ross G., delegate, . . . xlvi 

 Harshberger, John William, " The vegetation 

 of the banana holes of Florida," . xxiii 

 Harvard University, delegate . . . xlvi 

 Haiir, Pedro M., letter, .... cxxxiv 

 Hauke, Franz, letter, .... cxxxvii 

 Hauthal, R., letter, .... cvii 



Haverford College, delegates, . xlviii, xlix 



Hays, I. Minis, letter, .... lxii 



Hedin, Sven, letter, .... cxvii 



Heidelberger Akademie der Wissenschaften-Stif- 



tung Henry Lang, letter, 

 Heigel, Dr. von, letter, . 

 Heintz, E., letter, . 

 Hensen V., letter, . 

 Henshaw, Samuel, delegate, 

 Hermann, C, letter, 

 Hertwig, Richard, letter, 

 Heuertz, F., letter, . 

 Hiers, Harry, letter, 

 Higgins, Rev. William J., C.S 

 Hinson, R. J., letter, 

 Hirase, Y., letter, . 

 Hirnanatomisches Institut, Zurich, letter, cxxxvi 

 "History and position of the albino rat," H. 



H. Donaldson, xxiii 



Hochreutiner, B. P. C, letter, . . cxxxvii 



lxxxiv 



lxii 



cxix 



xcix 



xlvi 



. cxxxviii 



cxxxvi 



cxxxix 



. cxxxviii 



., delegate, xlvi 



. cxxxvii 



cxxxvi 



Hock, P. P. C, letter c 



Hockstetter, A., letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Hodge, Frederick W., delegate, . . xlvi 



Hoernes, Moritz, letter, .... cxxxvi 



Holland, C. W., letter cxxxvi 



Holland, James W., delegate, . . xlvi 



Holland, William J., "David Alter, the first 



discoverer of spectrum analysis," xxiii 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



Remarks at banquet, . . . xxxvii 



delegate xlvi 



letter lxvii 



Holsti, cablegram, ..... cxli 



Hoorweg, J. L., letter cxxxix 



Horst, R., letter, c 



Horstmann, Walter, committee on entertainment, 



viii 



committee on finance, . . . viii 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



Horv&th, Geza, letter, .... cxxxvii 



Houston, Edwin J., " How the natural sciences 



can be made attractive to the young," xxiv 



Hovey, Edmund Otis, delegate, . . xlvi 



letters, lxxix, ci 



" HOW THE NATURAL SCIENCES CAN BE MADE ATTRAC- 

 TIVE to the young," E. J. Houston, . xxiv 

 Howard, Leland 0., delegate, . . . xlvi 



letters, lix, lxv 



Howe, Marshall Avery, "Reef-building and 

 land-forming sea-weeds," . . xxiv 



delegate xlvi 



Howell, W. H., delegate, . . . xlvi 



Ho wland, Henry R., letter, . . . -lxv 

 Howson, Henry, letter, .... lxxv 

 Hoyle, William Evans, letter, . . . cxxxvii 

 Hrvatsko Naravoslovno Driistvo, letter, lxxxiv 

 Hubrecht, A. A. W., letter, . . . cxxxvii 

 Humphrey, George S., delegate, . . xlvi 



Hunter, W. D., letter, .... lix 



Hygienic Laboratory, Washington, letter, cxxxvii 

 Ihering, H. von, cablegram, . . cxli 



Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History, 



delegate, xlv 



Indian Museum, Calcutta, letter, . . cxxxvii 

 Inouye, Kinosuke, letter, . . cxix 



Institut general Psychologique, Paris, letter, 



cxxxvii 

 Institut Geologic al Romaniel, letter, . cxxxvii 

 Institut National Genevois, letter, . . cxxxvii 

 Institut Oc6anographique, letter, . . Ixxxv 



Institut Pasteur, letter Ixxxv 



Institute of Jamaica, letter, . . . cxxxvii 

 Instituto Geologico de Mexico, letter, . cxxxvii 

 Instituts Solvay, letter, .... cxxxvii 

 Iowa Academy of Sciences, letter, . . cxxxvii 

 Israel, With., letter, .... cxxxvi 

 R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere, dele- 

 gate, xlvii 



Jacobs, MerkelH., " Physiological characters 



of species," xxiv 



Jaderin, Edw., letter cxvii 



Jags, W. W. R., letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Jardin Imp6rial de Botanique de St. Pdtersbourg, 



letter, cxxxvi 



Jefferson Medical College, delegate, . xlvi 



Jennings, Herbert S., delegate, . . xlvi 



Jentink, F. A., letter, .... xciv 




cxlviii 



INDEX. 



u 



xliv 

 xlvi 

 xlvi 

 lxxviii 

 lxxiii 

 xciii 

 cxxiii 

 . cxxxvii 

 mjetnosti, 

 cxxxvii 

 xcviii 

 cxxxviii 

 g, cable- 

 cxli 

 xlix 

 lxxxvi 

 cxxxvii 

 cxli 

 lxxvii 



Johns Hopkins University, delegate, 

 Johnson, Charles W., delegate, 

 Johnson, Emory R., delegate, 



letter - 

 Jones, Hugh Albert, letter, . 

 Joubin, L., letter, . 

 Joubin, P., letter, . 

 Judd, John W., letter, . 

 Jugoslavenske Akademie Znanosti 1 

 letter .** 

 Jungersen, Hector F. E., letter, 



Kaiser, Er., letter, . . . 

 Kaiser-Wilhelms Universitat, Strassbur 



gram, . 

 Kansas Academy of Science, delegate, 



letter, . 



K k Karl Franzens-Umversitat, letter, 

 Karpinsky, Alex. Petrovic, cablegrams, 

 Kedleston, Curzon of, letter, . 

 Keeley, Frank J., committee on meetings and 



addresses, . . .*.,.* 

 Keen, W. W., committee on invitations, 



letter 



Keller, Ida A., letter, . 

 Keller, W., letter, . 

 Kemp, James Furman, delegate, 

 Kern, J. H., letter, . . 

 Keynes, John Neville, letter, . 

 Kiesewetter, Ernst, 



letter, . 

 King, H. L., letter, . 

 King, Henry Churchill, letter, 

 Kjobenhavns Universitet, letter, 

 Knott, C. G., letter, 

 Koch, Axel, letter, . 

 Koehne, Emil, letter, 

 Koenigsberger, Leo, letter, 

 Kolberg, Jos., letter, 

 Korschelt, E., letter, . . 

 Kosmos Gesellschaft der Naturfreunde, 



letter * 



Kraepel'in, (K.), letter, . 

 Krauske, letter, 

 Kretschmer, Ernst, letter, 

 Krmpoticu, Ivanu, letter, 

 Kiihn, A., letter, . . 

 Ktinckel d'Herculais, Jules, letter, 

 Kiispert, Dr., letter, 

 Laboratoire Maritime de Concarneau, 



letter, 



La Crois, A., letter, 

 Lafayette College, delegate, . 

 Lagerburg, Carl, letter, . 

 Lagrelius, Axel, letter, . 

 Lambros, Sp., letter, 

 Lang, Arnold, letter, 

 Lankester, Sir Ray, letter, 

 Lapicque, Louis, letter, . 

 Lathrop, William A., delegate, 

 Latzel, Dr., letter, . 

 Lavachery, A., letter, 

 LeComte, H., letter, 

 Le Conte, Robert G., committee 

 ment, . 

 arranges for banquet, 

 Lee, Frederick S., delegate, . 



LeGendre, Ch., letter, . xxix 



Lehigh University, delegate, . xlv 



f etter lxxxvni 



Lehman, Karl Bernhard, letter, . exxxiv 

 Leland Stanford Junior University, delegate, xlix 

 K Leopoldinisch-Carolinische Deutsche Akademie 

 der Naturforscher, letters, . lxxxix, cxxxvii 



vil 



. vii 

 . lxi 



. cv 



lxxxvii 



xlvi 



. cxl 



exxiv 



. V 



cxxxviii 



exxxv 

 cxxxviii 

 cxxxvii 

 cviii 

 cxxxvii 

 .lxii 

 lxxxiv 

 cxxxvii 

 cxli 

 Stuttgart, 

 lxxxvii 

 xcvii 

 lviii 

 exxxvi 

 lxxxiv 

 cxxxviii 

 exxxvi 

 xevi 

 Finistere, 

 lxxxviii 

 xciii 

 xliv, xlv, 1 

 exxxvi 

 cxvii 

 .cxl 

 cxxxvii 

 cxxxvii 

 xciii 

 xlvi 

 cxxxviii 

 cxl 

 xciii 

 on entertain- 

 viii 

 ix 

 xlvi 



cxiv 

 xlvii 

 xci, xcii 

 xlvii 

 cxxxvii 

 xlvii 

 exxviii 

 delegate, xlv 



xlv 



Lepri, Giuseppe, letter, 

 Lewton, F. L., delegate, . 

 Leyst, E., letters, . 

 Libbey, William, delegate, 



letter, 

 Lindgren, Waldemar, delegate. 

 Linhart, S. B., letter, 

 Linnsean Society of New York, 

 Linnean Society of London, delegate, 

 Lucas, Frederick A., delegate, 

 Loeb, Jacques, "Experiments on adaptation of 



ANIMALS TO HIGHER TEMPERATURES, 



delegate, . 

 Long, Brita, delegate, 

 Lorentz, H. A., letter, 

 Lory, Charles A., letter, 

 Lubanesky, M., letter, 

 Liihe, M., letter, . 

 Lunds Universitet, letter, 

 K Lyceum Hosianum zu Braunsberg, 



xxiv 

 xlvii 

 xlvii 

 lvi 

 cxl 

 xcii 

 cvii 

 cxxxvii 

 letter, 

 cxxxvii 

 Lyman, Benjamin Smith, "Natural history 



MORALITY," XM X 



McClellan, George, committee on invitations, vii 

 McCormick, Samuel Black, delegate, . xlvii 



letter, exxviii 



MacCurdy, George G., delegate, . . xlvn 

 Macfarlane, John Muirhead, "The relation 



OF PROTOPLASM TO ITS ENVIRONMENT, XXV 



delegate, . . . 

 McGill University, delegate, 

 McKenzie, R. Tait, delegate, 

 McMillan, Emerson, letter, 

 McVey, Frank L., letter, 

 Maerky, Charles, letter, . 

 Magyar Nemzeti Museum, delegate, 

 A Magyar Nemzeti Museum, Zoological Section, 



'letter cxxxvl 



A Ma'evar Nemzeti Muzeum Igazgat6saga, 



'letter cxxxvii 



K. Magyar Termeszettudomanyi Tarsulat, letter, 



K Magyar Tudomany-Egyetem, letter, . cxxxvii 

 Magyar' TudomanvosAkademia, letter, ; . xc 

 Maiden, J. H., letter, . . cxxxix 



Majoni, J. C, delegate * vii 



Mallet, John W., delegate, . xlvn 

 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, 



letter, cxxxvii 



Mangin' Louis, letter, . . _ . xcm 

 Mann Camillus MacMahon, minute defining date 



xlvii 



xlvii 



ci 



cxl 



exxxv 



xlix 



of foundation, 

 Maquenne, L., letter, 

 Marchal, Edmond, letter, 

 Marchi, Marco di, letter, 

 Marine Biological Association 



Kingdom, delegate, . 

 Marine Biological Laboratory, 



delegate, 



xxi 



xciii 



Hi 



exxxix 



the United 



li 



Wood's Hole, 

 xlviii 



of 




INDEX. 



cxlix 



Martens, Dr., letter cxl 



Martin, K., letter, . . . cxxxvi, cxxxvii 



Marlborough College Natural History Society, 



letter, ....... cxxxvii 



Maury, Carlotta J., "A contribution to the 



PALEONTOLOGY OP TRINIDAD," . . Xxiii 



Mayor, Eug., letter, .... cxxxix 



Mayor's address of welcome, . . x, xi 

 Medin, A., letter, ...... liii 



Morris, David B., letter, . . . cxl 



Meigs, Edward Browning, "The ash of smooth 



muscle," ...... xxiii 



Meltzer, Samuel J., delegate, . . . xlvii 

 " Methods of photographing wild birds," W. L. 



Baily, xxiv 



Meunier, Stanislas, letter, . . . xciii 

 Meyer, Arnold, letter, .... cxxii 

 Meyer, Willy, letter, .... xcv 



Meyrich, Edward, letter, . . . cxxxvii 



R. Microscopical Society, delegate, . . 1 



Miers, Henry A., letter, cxl 



Miller, John Anthony, delegate, . . xlvii 

 "Mimicry in butterflies," H. Skinner, xxiv 

 Mineralogical Society, London, letter, . cxxxvii 

 Imp. Mineralogiceskoje Obseestvo, cablegram, 



cxli 

 Minot, Charles Sedgwick, delegate, . xlvi 



letters, cxl, cxxxiv 



Miramichi Natural History Association, letter, 



cxxxvii 

 Missouri Botanical Garden, delegate, . xlviii 

 Mitchell, S. Weir, delegate, . . . xlvii 

 Mocenigo, Filippo Nani, letter, . . . lxi 

 Modi, Jivanji Jamshedji, letter, . . cxxxiv 

 Mohler, John R., delegate, . . . xlvii 

 "Mollusk fauna of Northwest America," W. 



H. Dall 



Molthanoff, C, letter, . 

 Monakow, Constantin v., letter, 

 Monnenmacher, F. A., letter, . 

 Montelius, Oscar, letter, . 

 Monterosato, Marchese de, letter, 

 Montgomery, Thomas H., Jr., 

 invitations, . 

 announcement of death of, ix, 

 delegate, .... . xlviii 



Montgomery, Thomas L., committee on meetings 

 and addresses, .... vii 



delegate, ...... xlviii 



letter, . .... cxxxvii 



Moore, George T., delegate, . . . xlviii 



Moore, H. F., delegate xlviii 



Moore, J. Percy, committee on invitations, vii 

 announcement of celebration, . . viii 



present at meeting, .... ix 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



delegate, ...... xlviii 



acknowledgment, .... cxlii 



Moos, Fr., letter, cxxxvi 



Morgan, C. Lloyd, letter, . . . cxxxvii 

 Morgenstierne, Bredo, letter, . . . lxxvi 

 Morice, Francis David, letter, . . . lxxiii 

 Morris, Charles S., committee on finance, viii 



xxv 



cxxxv 



cxxxvi 



. cxxxviii 



cxvii 



. cxxxvii 



committee on 



vii 



xxi 



I. Moskofskoie Obshchestvo Iestestvo-Ispyta- 



telei, letter, xci 



I. Moskovskij Universitet, letter, . . xcii 



Musee de Congo, letter, 



Muse d'Histoire Naturelle, Geneve, letter, cxxxviii 

 Museo de la Plata, letter, . . . cxxxviii 

 Museu Paulista, cablegram, . . . cxli 



Museum of Comparative Zoology, delegate, xlvi 



letter cxxxviii 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle, Marseille, letter, 



cxxxviii 



Museum National Franchise d'Histoire Naturelle, 



letter, ...... xciii 



K. Museum fur Naturkunde, Berlin, letter, 



cxxxviii 

 R. Museum van Natuurlijke Historie, Leiden, letter, 



xciv 

 Music, A., letter, cxxxvii 



Nachtrieb, Henry F., letter, . . . xcv 



Nansen, Fridtjof, letter, .... cxxxviii 

 Nathorst, A. G., letter, .... cxvii 

 National Academy of Sciences, delegate, xliv 



"Natural history morality," B. S. Lyman, xxiv 

 Natural History Society of British Columbia, 



letter, cxxxviii 



Natural History Survey of Minnesota, letter, xcv 



Natural History Society of Northumberland, 



Durham and Newcastle-upon-Tyne, letter, 



cxxxviii 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Basel, letter, 



cxxxviii 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Danzig, cablegram, 



cxli 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft, Emden, letter, 



cxxxviii 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Freiburg i Br., 



letter, cxxxviii 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Gorlitz, letter, 



xcv 

 Naturforschende Gesellschaft zu Halle a. d. 



Saale, letter, cxxxviii 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft in Zurich, letter, 



cxxxviii 

 Naturforschender Verein, Briinn, letter, cxxxviii 

 Naturhistorische Gesellschaft, Niirnberg, letter, 



xcvi 

 K. k. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum, Wien, letter, 



xcvii 



Naturhistorisches Landesmuseum von Karnten, 



letter, ....... cxxxviii 



Naturhistorisch-medizinischer Verein, Heidelberg, 

 letter, ....... xcviii 



Naturhistorischer Verein der P. Rheiulande u. 

 Westfalens, letter, .... cxxxviii 



Naturhistorisches Museum zu Hamburg, letter, 



xcvii 

 Naturhistoriske Forening, Kobenhavn, letter, 



xcviii 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis zu Baut- 

 zen, letter, cxxxviii 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Hamburg, letter, 



xcix 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Landshut i. B., 



letter, ....... cxxxviii 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fur Schleswig- 

 Holstein, letter, ..... xcix 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Steiermark 



in Graz, letter, c 



Navds, Longin, S. J., letter, . . . cxiii 

 Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeuiging, letter, c 




cl 



INDEX. 



Nederlandsche Entomologische Vereeniging, let- 

 ter, ci 



Nehmann, E., letter, .... lxxxvii 



Neumayer, Ludwig, letter, . . . cxxxvi 



"New species of Delphinodon," F. W. True, xxiii 



New York Academy of Sciences, delegate, xlvi; 



letter, ........ ci 



New York Aquarium, delegate, ... 1 

 New York Botanic Garden, delegate, . xlvi 

 New York Zoological Society, delegate, . xliv 



Nichols, Edward L., delegate, . . xlviii 



Nicoli, Francesco, letter, . . . cxxxiv 



Nieuwland, Julius A., delegate, . . xlviii 



Nijhoff, G. C., letter, cxl 



Nolan, Edward J., introduction, . . vii-ix 

 preliminary committee, . . . . vii 

 centenary committee, . . . .vii 

 committee on printing and publication, vii 



present at meeting, ix 



"Reminiscences," . . . .xxi-xxiii 



present at banquet, .... xxvi 



Remarks at banquet, . . . xxxix 

 acknowledgment, .... cxli 



Nordenskiold, E., letter, .... cxvii 



Nordgaard, 0., letter, ..... cxl 



Northamptonshire Natural History Society and 

 Field Club, letter, .... cxxxviii 



North Staffordshire Naturalists' Field Club, 

 letter, ....... cxxxviii 



Northwestern University, letter, . . . c ii 

 Nova Scotian Institute of Science, letter, cxxxv:':? 

 Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Hei I- 

 kunde. Naturwissenschaftliche Abteilung, let- 

 ter, cxxxviii 



Oberhummer, Eugen, letter, . . . lxxix 



Oberlin College, letter, .... cxxxviii 



Obschestvo Ispytatelei Prirody pri Imp. Kharkofs- 



kom Universitetie, letter, . . . cxxxviii 



Ogden, C. Edgar, delegate, . . . xlviii 



Oldenburgh, S. F., cablegram, . . cxli 



Orland, Ch., Aug., letter, . . . lxxvi 



"Orthopteran inhabitants of the Sonoran 



creosote bush," J. A. Rehn, . . xxiv 



Osborn, Henry Fairfield, "Tetraplast, or law 



of the four inseparable factors of evo- 



Petersen, C. G. Joh., letter, . . . cxxxv 

 Pettit, A., letter, . ... cxxxix 



Philadelphia College of Pharmacy, delegate, xlv 



letter, ciii 



Philadelphia Commercial Museums, delegate, li 

 Philadelphia High School for Girls, delegates, 



xlvii, 1 



letter, cv 



Philadelphia Pathological Society, letter, . civ 



delegates, .... xlviii, xlix 



Phillips, Everett F., delegate, . . . xlviii 

 Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft zu Ko- 

 nigsberg i. P., letter, .... cvii 



Physikalischer Verein zu Frankfurt a/M., letter, 



cxxxviii 

 " Physiological characters of species," M. H. 



Jacobs, xxiv 



Phytopathologisch Laboratorium "Willie Com- 



melin Scholten," letter, . . . cxxxviii 



Pijper, F., letter, ..... cxxiv 



Pilsbry, Henry A., committee on printing and 



publication, vii 



" Onthe tropical element in the molluscan 

 fauna of Florida," . . . xxiv 

 Pinncheon, Katherjne E., letter, . . cv 



Polevoy, H. Vladimir P., delegate, . . xlviii 

 Pollard, Charles L., delegate, . . . xlviii 

 Polskiego Towarzystwa Przyrodnikow im. Koper- 

 nika, cablegram, ..... cxli 



Pomona College, delegate, . . . xliii 

 Pontificia Accademia Romana die Nuovi Lincei, 



Roma, letter, cvi 



Popovici-Hatzeg, V., letter, . . . cxxxvii 



Postinger, letter, liv 



Poulton, Edward B., letter, . . . cxxxix 



Prain, D., letter, cxxxiv 



Pratt, Henry S., delegate, . . . xlviii 

 Preobrashensky, S., letter, . . . xcii 



President's address, .... x-xx 

 K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften, 



cablegram, cxli 



Princeton University, delegate, . . xlix 



Probizer, Dr., letter, .... liv 



Proceedings of the sessions, . . x-cxlii 



Prosinger, letter, cxxxviii 



Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten 

 en Wetenschappen, letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Przibram, H., letter, .... cxxxiv 

 Publications in connection with celebration, viii 

 Pulligny, Jean de, present at banquet, . xxvi 

 Remarks at banquet, . . . xxxi 



delegate, xlviii 



Putnam, F. W., letter, .... cxxxix 



Quaintaince, A. L., letter, . . . lxxiv 

 Queensland Museum, letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Quevedo, Samuel A. Lafone, letter, . . cxxxviii 



Randa, A., letter, lxviii 



"Rate of growth of stony corals," T. W. 



Vaughan xxiv 



Rathbun, Richard, delegate, . . . xlviii 



Redlich, letter, cxxi 



"Reef-building and Land-forming seaweeds," 



M. A. Howe, xxiv 



Rehn, James A. G., "The orthopteran inhabi- 

 tants of the Sonoran creosote bush," xxiv 

 Reid, Harry Fielding, letter, . . . cxxxix 




INDEX. 



cli 



Reinhard, L., letter cxxxviii 



Reishauer, Herm, letter, .... cxxxvi 

 " Relation of protoplasm to its environment," 

 J. M. Macfarlane, .... xxv 



"Reminiscences" of the Librarian, . xxi-xxiii 

 Renz, Anton, letter, .... cxxxvi 

 Retzius, Gustav, letter, .... cxxxix 

 Rhoads, Samuel N., delegate, . . . xlix 



Richard, J., letter, lxxxv 



Richards, Theodore W., delegate, . . xlix 



Riesman, David, delegate, . . . xlviii 



letter civ 



Riviere, Emile, letter, .... cxxxix 



Robins, E., letter, cxxviii 



Robson, C. E., letter, .... cxxxviii 



Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, 



delegate, xlvii 



letter, ...... cxxxix 



Roemer Museum, letter, .... cvii 



Rohwer, S. A., letter, .... lxxiv 



Rolle, Dr., letter, cxli 



Rorer, J. T., delegate, .... xlix 



Rosenvinge, L. Kolderup, letter, . . cxxxv 

 Rossi, Vittorio, letter, ..... cxl 



Rotch, Abbott Lawrence, delegate, . xlix 



Rothermel, John G., delegate, . . xlix 



Rothschild, Hon. Walter, letter, . . cxxxix 



Roule, Louis, letter xciii 



Roux, E., letter, lxxxv 



Roux, W., letter, ..... cxxxix 

 Royal Dublin Society, cablegram, . . cxli 



Royal Irish Academy, letter, . . . cxxxvii 

 Royal Society of Canada, delegate, . xlv 



letter, ... . . cxxxix 



Royal Society of Edinburgh, delegates, . xlvii, 1 



letter, cviii 



Royal Society of London, delegate. . xliii 

 Royal Society of New South Wales, letter, cxxxix 

 Royal Society of Victoria, letter, . . cxxxix 



Ruffini, N., letter, cxx 



Russkoje Entomologiceskoje Obscestvo, . cix 

 Imp. Russkoje Geograficeskoje Obscestvo, cable- 

 gram, cxlii 



Ryan, Leon Alonzo, "The ash of smooth 



muscle," xxiii 



Rykatchew, M., letter cxix 



Sachs. (Grossherzogl. und Herzogl.) Gesamt-Uni- 



versitat, letter, cxxxix 



Sachsisch-Thiiringischer Verein fur Erdkunde 



zu Halle a. S., letter, .... cxxxix 



K. Sachsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, 



letters, ex, cxi 



Safford, William E., delegate, . . . xlix 



St. Louis Academy of Sciences, delegate, . xlviii 



Salin, Bernhard, letter, .... 



Salomon, Wilhelm, letter, 



Sanctis, Pierre de, letter, 



San Diego Society of Natural History, 



Santesson, Henrik, letter, 

 Sarasin, Ed., letter, . 

 Sarawak Museum, letter, 

 Sars, G. 0., letter, . 

 Sauvage, H. E., letter, 

 Sayre, L. E., delegate, 



letter, 

 Schaefer, B., letter, . 



cxvn 



xcviii 



cvi 



letter, 



cxxxix 



cxvii 



cxii 



cxxxix 



cxxxix 



cxxxix 



xlix 



Ixxxvi 



cxli 



Schantz, H. L., delegate, .... xlix 



Scharff, Robert F., letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Schenck, A., letter, ..... cxxxix 



Schenck, F., letter, cxl 



Schlesische Gesellschaft fur vaterlandische Cultur, 



letter, cxxxix 



Schmid, letter, cxl 



Schuchert, Charles, delegate, . . . xlix 

 Schulz, Paul, letter, .... exxxiv 

 Schweizerische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, let- 

 ter cxii 



Scott, Duncan C, letter, . . . cxxxix 

 Scott, William Berryman, delegate, . xlix 



R. Scuola Superiore di Agricoltura in Milano, 



letter, cxxxix 



R. Scuola Superiore di Agricultura in Portici, 



delegate, xliv 



Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, Andrea, letter, . cix 



cablegram, . ... cxlii 



Semenov-Tjan-Shanskij, P., letter, . . cix 



Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 



letter, cxxxix 



cablegram cxlii 



"Sensory appropriation as illustrated in the 

 organs of taste Invertebrates," G. H. Parker, 



xxv 

 Shahan, Rev. Thomas J., letter, . . lxvii 

 Sharpless, Isaac, delegate, . . . xlix 



Simpson, Edwin I., committee on entertainment, 



viii 



assistance rendered, . ... ix 



Skinner, Henry, preliminary committee, vii 



committee on printing and publication, vii 



" Mimicry in butterflies," . . xxiv 



delegate, xlix 



Smith, Alexander, delegate, . . . xlix 



Smith, Allen J., delegate, . . xlix 



letter, civ 



Smith, Edgar Fahs, delegate, . . . xlix 



letter, exxii 



Smithsonian Institution, delegates, . xlv, xlviii, 1 



letter, cxii 



Sociedad Aragonesa de Ciencias Naturales, dele- 

 gate, xliii 



letter, cxiii 



Sociedad Cientifica Antonio Alzate, delegate, 



xlvi 

 Sociedad Malaguena de Ciencias, letter, . cxiii 

 Societa Geografica Italiana, delegate, . xlvii 

 Societa Italiana per il Progresso delle Scienze, 



cablegram, cxlii 



Societa Italiana di Scienze Naturali, Milano, 



letter, cxxxix 



Societa di Lettere e Conversazione scientifiche, 

 Genova, delegate, .... xliv 



Societa dei Naturalisti e Matematici in Modena, 

 letter, ....... cxiv 



Societa Zoologica Italiana, letter, . . cxiv 

 R. Societas Scientiarum Bohemica, letter, cxv 

 R. Societas Scientiarum Upsaliensis, cablegram, 



cxlii 



Socidte' de Biologie, letter, . . . cxxxix 



Soci6t6 Botanique et d'Etudes scientifiques du 



Limousin, letter, ..... cxxxix 



Soci6t6 Botanique de France, delegate, . 1 



letter, cxv 




clii 



INDEX. 



Soctete' Entomologique de France, delegate, xlvi 



letter, cxxxix 



Soci6t6 f rancaise de Min6ralogie, letter, . cxxxix 

 Soci^te" Linn^enne de Lyon, letter, . . cxxxix 

 SociSte" des Naturalistes Luxembourgeois, letter, 



cxxxix 

 SociiSte' Imp. des Naturalistes de Moscow, letter, 



xci 

 Soci^te" Neuchateloise des Sciences Naturelles, 



letter, cxxxix 



Sociele" Royale des Sciences de Liege, letter, 



cxxxix 

 Soci6t6 des Sciences de Nancy, letter, . cxxxix 

 Soci6t6 des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du 



Hainaut, letter, cxl 



Soci6t6 des Sciences Naturelles et Arch6ologiques 



de la Creuse, letter, .... cxl 



Soci^te" Vaudoise d'Histoire et d'ArchSologie, 



letter, cxl 



Soci6t6 Zoologique de France, delegates, 



xliii, xliv, xlviii 

 Soci^te" Royale Zoologique et Malacologique de 



Belgique, letter cxl 



Society of American Zoologists, delegate, li 



Society for the Development of Experimental 

 Sciences, Moscow, delegate, . . xlviii 



South African Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, delegate, . . . . li 



Southern California Academy of Sciences, letter, 



cxvi 

 Spalding, W. A., letter, .... cxvi 



Spitaler, R., letter lxxii 



Spiteri, Z. Rodriques, letter, . . . cxiii 



Stadtisches Museum fiir Natur- und Heimatkunde, 



Magdeburg, letter, .... cxl 



State Agricultural College, Fort Collins, letter, 



cxl 

 State Natural History Museum, Springfield, 111., 



letter, cxl 



State University of Iowa, delegate, . . xliii 



Staten Island Association of Arts and Sciences, 



delegates, .... xliv, xlvi, xlviii 



Stav, L. A., lettre, cxl 



Stavanger Museum, letter, ... cxl 



Steindachner, Franz, letter, . . . xcvii 

 Stejneger, Leonhard, delegate, . xlix 



Stelling, Ed., letter, .... cxix 



Sterling Natural History and Archaeological 



Society, letter, cxl 



Sternberg, Geo., M. letter, ... cxl 

 Stevens, Nettie M., delegate, . . . xlix 

 Stevenson, J. J., delegate, . . xlix 

 Stockholms Hogskola, letter, . . . cxvii 

 Stone, Witmer, committee on printing and publi- 

 cation, vii 



committee on entertainment, . . viii 



"Fauna and flora op the New Jersey pine 



barrens," xxv 



Strasburger, E., letter, .... cxl 



Sudworth, George B., delegate, . . xlix 



Suess, E., letter, cxl 



Supino, D., letter, cxl 



Surgeon-General's Office, delegate, . . li 



K. Svenska Vetenskapsakademien, letter, cxviii 

 Sveuska Sallskapet for Antropologi och Geografi, 



delegate xlv 



letter, cxvii 



1 



xlvii, 1 



1 



cxxxvii 



cxl 



lv 



cxl 



Swain, Joseph, delegate, . 

 Swarthmore College delegates, 

 Swingle, Walter T., delegate, . 

 Szalay, Invre v., letter, . 



Tapie, A., letter, 

 Tarnowski, St., letter, 

 Teixeira, Gomez, letter, . 



"TETRAPLASY, OR LAW OF THE FOUR INSEPARABLE 



factors of evolution," H. F. Osborn, XXV 

 Texas Academy of Sciences, delegate, . xlviii 

 Teylers Stichting, letter, .... cxl 



Thomas 0., letter, cxl 



Thomsen, Vilh., cablegram, . . . cxli 

 Thornburg, C. L., letter, .... lxxxviii 

 Thurgauische Naturforschende Gesellschaft, let- 

 ter, cxl 



Tietze, Emil, letter, lxxx 



Tittmann, 0. H., letter, .... cxxxv 

 Tokyo Geographical Society, letter, . cxix 

 Torrey Botanical Club, delegate, . . xlv 

 Toula, Franz, letters, . . . cxl.cxxxi 

 Tower, Hon. Charlemagne, committee on enter- 

 tainment, vni 



Townsend, Charles H., delegate, . . 1 



Tromso Museum, letter, .... cxl 



Trondhjems Biologiske Station, letter, . cxl 



"Tropical element in the molluscan fauna of 

 Florida," H. A. Pilsbry, . . _ xxiv 

 Trotter, Spencer, committee on meetings and 



addresses, vii 



"The faunal divisions of eastern North 

 America in relation to vegetation, 



xxiv 



Trouessart, E., letter, .... xciii 



True, Frederick William, " A new species of 



Delphinodon," .... xxiii 



delegate, ..._ ' 



Tryon, Charles Z., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 Tscherychew, F. N., cablegrams, . . cxli 



Tsentralnaia Fizicheskaia Observatoria Nicolas, 



letter, cxix 



Tucker, Henry, committee on entertainment, 



vii 

 arranges for banquet, 

 Tumbult, Dr., letter, 

 Turner, Wm., letter, 

 Tyrrell, J. B., letter, 

 Ulanowski, letter, . 

 Umoff, N., letter, . 

 United States Bureau of Fisheries, 



United States Forest Service, delegate, 

 United States National Museum, 



IX 



cxli 

 cviii 

 lxvi 



lv 



xci 



delegate, 



xlviii 



xlix 



delegate, 



xlix 



cxl 



cxl 



Universidade do Porto, lettr, . 

 R. Universita di Pisa, letter, . 

 R. Universita degli Studi in Bologna, letter, 



cxx 

 R. Universita degli Studi in Padova, letter, 



cxl 

 R. Universita degli Studi di Siena, letter, 



cxl 

 Universita di Torino, delegate, . . xliv 



letter, cxx 



Universitat Heidelberg, letter, . . cxxi 




INDEX. 



cliii 



K. Universitiit Marburg, letter, 



K. k. Universitat, Wien, letter, 



Universitat, Zurich, letter, 



Universite Catholique de Louvain, letter, 



Universite Egyptienne, letter, . 



University Laval, letter, . 



Universite libre de Bruxclles, letter, . 



University de Lyon, letter, 



University de Toulouse, letter, . 



R. Universiteit, Groningen, letter, . 



R. Universiteit, Leiden, letter, 



R. Universiteit te Utrecht, letter, . 



K. Universitetet i Upsala, cablegram, 



University of Athens, letter, . 



University of California, delegate, . 



University of Cambridge, delegate, 



letter, 



University of Chicago, delegate, 

 University of Cincinnati, letter, 

 University of Colorado, delegate, . 



letter, ..... 

 University of Durham Philosophical 



delegate, 



University of Edinburgh, letter, 

 University of Glasgow, delegate, 

 University of Illinois, delegate, 

 University of Indiana, delegate, 

 University of London, letter, . 

 University of Michigan, delegate, . 

 University of Minnesota, delegate, . 

 University of Missouri, delegate, . 

 University of Montana, letter, 

 University of North Carolina, letter, 

 University of North Dakota, letter, 

 University of Notre Dame, delegat 



letter, 

 University of Oxford, delegate, 



letter, .... 

 Pennsylvania, 



University of 



letter, 

 University 



cxl 



cxxi 



cxxii 



cxxiii 



cxl 



cxl 



cxl 



cxxiii 



cxl 



cxl 



cxxiv 



cxl 



cxli 



cxl 



xlvii 



xliii 



cxxiv 



xlv 



cxxv 



1 



cxxv 



Society, 



xliii 



cxxvi 



xliv 



xliii 



xlviii 



cxl 



xlv 



xliii 



xlv 



cxl 



cxl 



cxl 



e, xlviii 



cxxvii 



xlvii, xlix 



cxl 



delegates, 



xlviii, xlix, 1 

 cxxviii 



of Pittsburg, delegates, 



xliv, xlvi, xlvii 



letter, ...... cxxviii 



University of Texas, delegate, . . . xlviii 

 Imp. University of Tokio, cablegram, . cxli 



University of Virginia, delegate, . . xlvii 



letter, cxxix 



University of Wisconsin, delegate, . . xlvi 



C. k. Universytet imienia cesarza Franciszka I 

 Lemberg, letter, ..... cxxx 

 Van Biervliet, J., letter, .... cxxi 

 Van der Hoop, D., letter, ... cj 



Van Tieghem, Ph., letter, . . . xciij 



Vasseuer, G., letter cxxxviii 



Vauclain, Samuel M., delegate, . . 1 



Vaughan, T. Wayland, "Rate of growth of 



STONY CORALS," .... XXiv 



delegate, _ 1 



Vaux, George, Jr., preliminary committee, vii 



committee on meetings and addresses, vii 



committee on finance, . . viii 



"Vegetation of the banana holes of Florida," 



J. W. Harshberger, .... xxiii 



Veillon, H., letter, cxxxviii 



Veit, I., letter, cxli 



Vejdovsky, F., letter, .... cxli 



Venables, Francis, letter, .... cxl 



Verein fur Erdkunde zu Dresden, letter, cxli 



Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Meck- 

 lenberg, letter, .... cxli 



Verein ftir Geschichte und Naturgeschichte der 

 Baar und der angrenzenden Landesteile, letter, 



cxli 

 Verein fur Naturkunde zu Cassel, letter, cxli 

 Verein fiir naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung, 

 letter, . . cxli 



in Wi'irt- 

 cxxxi 



Verein fiir vaterliindische Naturkunde 



temberg, letter, .... 

 Verein zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher 



cxxxi 



cxli 



Kenntnisse in Wien, letter, 

 Vereinigte Friedrichs-Universitat, letter 

 Verneau, Ren<, letter, 

 Verrie, Madeline, delegate, 

 K. Vetenskaps Akademien, delegate 

 Vidal, Louis M., letter, . 

 Videnskab Selskabet i Kristiania, delegate, 

 Viereck, Henry L., delegate, . 

 Virginia Geological Survey, delegate, 



Voigt, letter, 



Vosseler, F., letter, .... 

 Vrba, C, letter, .... 

 Vrba, K., letter, .... 

 Vries, Hugo de, letter, . 

 Waals, J. D. van der, letter, . 

 Wagner Free Institute of Science, delegate, 

 Wahnschaffe, F., letter, . 

 Walcott, Charles D., delegate, 



letter, .... 

 Waldheim, A. Fischer de, letter, 

 Walker, James J., letter, . 

 Wallace, John F., delegate, . 

 Walkin, Axel, letter, 

 Wangerin, A., letters, 

 Ward, R. M., delegate, . 

 Warfield, Ethelbert D., delegate, 

 Warren, Joseph W., delegate, . 

 Washington Academy of Sciences, delegate, 



letter, ..... 

 Washington, Henry S., delegate, . 

 Watson, Thomas L., delegate, 

 Weber, L., letter, .... 

 Webster, Francis M., delegate, 



letter, 



Wedderburn, J. H. M., delegate, . 



Weideman, C. A., letter, . 



Weise, Franz, letter, 



Wesenburg-Lund, D., letter, . 



Westerdijk, Joh'a, letter, 



Western Society of Engineers, delegate 



Wettstein, R. v., letter, . 



Wexweiler, Emile, letter, 



Wheeler, George, letter, . 



Wheeler, William M., delegate, 



Whitaker, Milton C, delegate, 



Wiedersheim, R., letter, . 



Wijhe, J. W. van, letter, . 



Wilder, Burt G., letter, . 



Wildman, Edward E., delegate, 



Willcox, Joseph, delegate, 



Willey, Arthur, delegate, 



Williams, Allie W., delegate, . 



Williams, Gardner F., delegate, 



xlv 



cxxxiv 



xlix 



1 



1 



lxxxii 



cxxxiii 



cxxv 



cxv 



cxli 



lvi 



xlix 



lxxi 



1 



cxii 



cxxxvi 



lxxiii 



1 



cxvii 



lxxxix, cxxxvii 



1 



1 



1 



xliv 



cxli 



1 



1 



xcix 



1 



cxxxvi 



1 



ciii 



cxxxvi 



cxxxv 



cxxxviii 



1 



cxxxii 



cxxxvii 



lxxiii 



1 



1 



cxli 



cxli 



cxli 



1 



li 



li 



li 



li 




cliv 



INDEX. 



Wilson, Edmund B., delegate, . . li 



letter, cxli 



Wilson, William P., delegate, ... li 



Windisch, Ernest, letter, .... cxi 



Winsor, Henry, committee on entertainment, viii 

 Winsor, William D., committee on entertainment, 



viii 

 Wissenschaftliche Gesellschaft in Strassburg, 



letter, cxli 



Wistar Institute of Anatomy and Biology, dele- 

 gate xlv 



letter, . .... cxxxii 



Woodward, Robert S., letter, . . . lxvi 



Wyoming Historical and Geological Society of 



Wilkesbarre, delegate, .... xlviii 



Yale University Museum, delegate, . xlix 



Yamasaki, N., letter, .... cxxxvi 



Zeiller, R., letter, cxv 



Zeuthen, H. G., letter, .... cxxxv 

 K. k. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft, Wien, 



cxxxii 

 Zoologische Gesellschaft, Hamburg, letter, cxxxiii 

 Zoologische Station, Naples, cablegram, . cxlii 

 K. Zoologisches und Anthropologisch-ethno- 



graphisches Museum, letter, . . cxxxiii 

 Zoologisches Institut der Universitat, Marburg, 



letter, cxli 



Zubaty, Josef, letter cxv 



Zur Strassen, 0., letter, .... cxxxix 








MM WHOI I.1KKAKY 



flSC c 





















