
} 






PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Natural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LXV1II 



1916 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1916 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



January 15, 1917. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1916 were 

 mailed as follows: — 



Pages 1-32 March 7, 1916. 



33-64 March 15, 1916. 



65-84 March 31, 1916. 



85-196 May 9, 1916. 



197-314 May 23, 1916. 



315-378 June 21, 1916. 



379-426 August 14, 1916. 



427-474 August 30, 1916. 



475-538 .' November 21, 1916. 



539-602 December 7, 1916. 



603-618 January 29, 1917. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 

 The President, Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., ex-oficio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



///'/£ 




< : o N T E N T S. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



Alexander, Charles P. New or little-known crane-flies 



from the United States and Canada: Tipulidse, Ptychop- 



teridae, Dipt era. Part 3 (Plates XXV-XXXI) 480 



Banks, Nathan. Revision of Cayuga Lake spiders (Plates 



X, XI) 68 



Barringer, Daniel M. A possible partial explanation of the 



visibility and brilliancy of comets. With an addendum 



by Elihu Thomson. 472 



Berry, S. Stillman. Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands 



(Plates VI, VII, VIII, IX) 45 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Some bees from Australia, Tasmania, 



and the New Hebrides 360 



Colton, Harold, S. On some varieties of Thais lapillus in 



the Mount Desert region, a study of individual ecology 440 



Crawley, Howard. The sexual evolution of Sarcocystis muris 



(Plates I, II, III, IV) 3 



The zoological position of Sarcosporidia 379 



Dall, William H. A new species of Onchidiopsis from 



Bering Sea 370 



Daniels, L. E. See Henderson, Junius. 



Fowler, Henry W. Cold-blooded vertebrates from Costa 



Rica and the Canal Zone 389 



Notes on fishes of the orders Haplomi and Mycrocyprini 415 



Heath, Harold. The nervous system of Crepidula adunca 



and its developments ... 479 



Hebard, Morgan. See Rehn, James A. G. 



Henderson, Junius, and L. E. Daniels. Hunting Mollusca 



in Utah and Idaho (Plates XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII) 315 



Jacobs, Merkel H., Ph.D. Temperature and the activities 



of animals 85 




IV CONTENTS. 



PAGE 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix, 

 with a catalogue of the species (Plates XIX, XX, XXI, 

 XXII) 340 



IIkiin. . I ames A. G., and Morgan Hebard. Studies in the 

 Dermaptera and Orthoptera of the Coastal Plain and 

 Piedmont Section of the southeastern United Stales 

 (Plates XII, XIII, XIV) 87 



Thomson, Elihu. See Barringer, D. M. 



Viereck, Henry L. New species of North American bees of 

 the genus Andrena from west of the 100th Meridian 

 contained in the collections of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia 550 



Wade, Bruce. New genera and species of Gastropoda from 



the Upper Cretaceous (Plates XXIII, XXIV) 455 




PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



|OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1916. 



January 18. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-six persons present. 



The death of Daniel Giraud Elliot, a member, December 22, 1915, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee announced the presentation of papers 

 under the following titles: 



"Revision of Cayuga Lake spiders," by Nathan Banks, December 

 2, 1915. 



"Studies in the Dermaptera and Orthoptera of the Coastal Plains 

 and Piedmont Region of the southeastern United States," by James 

 A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, January 17. 



"Fossil birds' eggs," by Dr. R. W. Shufeldt, January 18. 



Prof. William P. Magie and Daniel Moreau Barringer made 

 communications on the Meteor Crater of Arizona, illustrated by 

 lantern slides. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 

 Walter Sonneberg. 

 William S. Huntington. 

 Samuel T. Bodine. 

 David Wilbur Horn, Ph.D. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



THE SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS MUEIS. 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



A number of years ago, at the University of Pennsylvania, an 

 investigation of the early stages of the evolution of Sarcocystis maris 

 in the intestinal cells of the mouse was undertaken. This investiga- 

 tion was interrupted for several years, but was resumed at the 

 laboratory of the Zoological Division of the Bureau of Animal 

 Industry, Washington, D. C, and the first definite results obtained 

 were outlined in a preliminary note published in 1914 (Crawley, 1914). 



In this note it was shown that following ingestion of the so-called 

 spores of this parasite, penetration of the intestinal cells of the mouse 

 was effected within about two hours. Once within the cells the 

 spores rapidly underwent profound changes and after the lapse of 

 about nine hours they had separated into two categories, which were 

 interpreted to represent males and females. In the case of the 

 supposed males, development took the form of a loss of most if not 

 all of the cytoplasm, so that the parasite became reduced to a nucleus . 

 which, however, was of considerably larger size than that of the 

 original spore. Later, the chromatin of this nucleus became col- 

 lected into a number of small rounded masses placed at the periphery. 

 These masses, at first granular, later became solid and eventually 

 transformed themselves into elongated, thread-like bodies, which 

 were interpreted to be microgametes. This evolution was completed 

 at the end of 18 hours. 



Meanwhile others of the original spores went through a wholly 

 different course of development, which was not at the time considered 

 in detail. It was evident, however, that these elements retained 

 their cytoplasm and eventually transformed themselves into oval 

 cells, with rather dense cytoplasm and a vesicular nucleus containing 

 a large karyosome. These, which were interpreted to be females, 

 also reached the end of their development within 18 hours. 



Finally, appearances suggesting fertilization were noted. 



At the time when this preliminary notice was prepared, my material 

 for the later stages, from 12 to 18 hours, was abundant and the 

 conclusions as published were based on the findings in a number of 

 mice. On the other hand, for the early stages only three mice were 




191(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3 



available, these representing, respectively, the 2 to 2\ hour, the 

 3 to 3| hour, and the 3 and (5 hour stages, the last being a mouse 

 given two infecting U'^U between which was an interval of 3 hours, 

 and killed 3 hours after the second meal. It was therefore con- 

 sidered desirable to obtain more material for these earlier stage-, 

 and the results to be set forth herein are based upon the examination 

 of a number of mice killed at periods of from one hour onward. 



Material and Methods. 



A list of the mice used, with appropriate explanatory matter, is 

 placed at the end of the present section. During the entire course 

 of the studies on sarcosporidiosis, every mouse obtained in whatsoever 

 manner was given a number. In many cases these were trapped 

 gray mice, or else white mice which had never been inoculated. 

 Hence those used for the microscopical study of the evolution of the 

 parasites in the cells represent but a portion of the entire series. 

 It has been considered better, how T ever, to retain the numbers origin- 

 ally given, since no confusion can possibly arise from such a procedure. 



In the list appended the time in hours elapsing between the infect- 

 ing meal and the death of the mouse has been placed immediately 

 after the number of the mouse, since this is the most important 

 datum. After this the fixing fluid is noted, and finally a statement 

 with reference to the quantity of infectious material which the 

 mouse ate is appended. The omission of these data in a number 

 of cases indicates a failure to keep the record complete. 



The list as given includes"38 mice, and the conclusions as set forth 

 herein are thus based on this number of experimental animals. It 

 is desired to lay emphasis on this point on account of the possibility 

 of confusion with other intestinal Protozoa, such as Coccidia. 



Erdmann (1914) endeavored to obtain mice in which the possi- 

 bility of extraneous infection was excluded. The procedure was to 

 raise mice from birth under as sterile conditions as possible. This, 

 of course, is the ideal method, but, as Erdmann states, it is tedious 

 and difficult. The other method is to use a large series of mice, 

 which will presumably yield results that cannot be questioned. 

 Thus, if, after feeding, parasites are found in the cells which are 

 evidently Sarcocystis spores and if, as time passes, these intracellular 

 elements undergo serial changes it would seem to be hypercritical 

 to question their identity as stages in the evolution of Sarcocystis 

 muris. For it would be necessary to assume that each experimental 

 mouse harbored Coccidia in addition to the Sarcosporidia and that 




4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



in each and every case the Coccidia happened to be in precisely such 

 a stage as to resemble the Sarcosporidia. The mathematical proba- 

 bility of this taking place diminishes with the number of mice used 

 and when this number is large becomes a vanishing quantity. 



Of course, since protozoan infections naturally tend to assume the 

 epizootic form, if one or two mice from a given cage were found to be 

 infected with Coccidia, the surmise would be warranted that many 

 or all of the others were so infected. But in the case of the series 

 upon which the present studies were based, the mice were obtained 

 from various sources and from various places and in many cases had 

 never been in contact. It is therefore believed that the results as 

 stated are valid, so far as concerns the possibility of confusion with 

 Coccidia. 



The mice selected for inoculation were deprived of food for 24 

 hours. This served a two-fold purpose. It rendered them more 

 prone to eat the infectious material when given and it served to free 

 the intestine of half-digested vegetable food, the presence of which 

 interferes with sectioning. For the short periods, up to 18 hours 

 or so, the mice were given a piece of infected muscle of what was 

 regarded as an appropriate size. This was larger or smaller, according 

 to the number of cysts it contained; and when these were abundant 

 the portion given had a weight of the order of one-tenth of a gram. 



When the mouse is given its infecting meal, any one of several 

 things may happen. Some mice positively refuse to touch the 

 meat, while others merely play with it for a time and then abandon 

 it. More usually, however, the mous£ feeds, and the customary 

 method is for it to hold the food in its forepaws and nibble at it 

 until it is all consumed. This procedure, however, may be inter- 

 rupted by delays, but if the entire time required to finish the meal 

 is short in comparison with that to elapse between feeding and 

 death, the mouse may be used. Finally, in some cases the meal was 

 bolted in the manner in which a dog feeds. 



At the end of the proper period the mouse was chloroformed, 

 opened, and the alimentary canal removed. In nearly all cases it 

 was placed in the killing fluid entire, being neither cut into pieces 

 nor slit open. The intestine of a mouse has such thin walls that the 

 fluids have no difficulty in penetrating, and this procedure does away 

 with the rough handling necessary in slitting the intestine. It more- 

 over retained the intestinal contents, an obvious advantage, and a 

 comparison with slit intestines showed that the fixation was equally 

 accurate. The only disadvantage was that at times the penetration- 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



of the fluids from the muscularis toward the epithelium resulted in 

 the latter being torn loose from the underlying connective tissue. 

 At least this phenomenon was not infrequently manifesl and is 

 presumably to be credited to the direction of entrance of the fluids. 



Following fixation, each intestine was cut into piece- of a con- 

 venient length for embedding in paraffin. In general, the small 

 intestine was cut into 25 to 30 pieces which were numbered, as a 

 rule, from the anterior to the posterior end. Thus, int. 1 of a given 

 mouse indicated the piece immediately following the stomach, the 

 highest or last number that piece immediately in front of the csecum. 

 Sometimes, however, this process was reversed, the last piece of the 

 intestine being designated as int. — 1; the next to the last, int. — 2, 

 and so on, the negative sign's serving to distinguish such cases from 

 the more usual procedure. This, as already noted, is applicable to 

 the small intestine alone, the caecum and large intestine being given 

 other designations. The procedure as outlined above was not, 

 however, always followed. 



The fixing fluids used were: 



1. Hermann's fluid, stronger formula. 



2. Zenker's fluid. 



3. Picro-acetic acid, made by reducing a saturated aqueous 

 solution of picric acid to one-half strength with water, and adding 

 1 per cent, glacial acetic acid. 



4. An alcoholic-corrosive-acetic mixture, designated in the text 

 as A. C. A. The formula for this is as follows: 



Saturated aqueous solution of mercuric chloride 50 parts. 



Alcohol, 95 percent 50 parts. 



Glacial acetic acid '5 parts. 



Of these, Hermann's fluid and the picro-acetic mixture, the latter 

 despite Lee's strictures, gave the most delicate fixation. Zenker's 

 fluid is not to be recommended, since it leaves the tissues in poor 

 condition for staining and is at best a mediocre fixative. 



The A. C. A. fluid, while scarcely so accurate as Hermann's fluid, 

 is none the less a very good fixative. It is, moreover, very con- 

 venient, since the tissues can be passed directly from it into alcohol, 

 and it leaves the material in excellent condition for staining. 



The material was stained both in bulk and on the slide. While 

 t here is a prejudice against the former method for delicate cytological 

 work. Delafield's hematoxylin counterstained on the slide with 

 alcoholic eosin or acid fuchsin dissolved in 95 per cent, alcohol, gives 




6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



results not far short of the best slide staining. The use of counter- 

 stains in alcohol is a great time-saving device, since the preparation 

 has but to be passed from xylol, to absolute alcohol, to 95 per cent, 

 alcohol, to the stain and back again to be ready for the Canada bal- 

 sam. Moreover, if acid fuchsin be used, one quick dip in the stain is 

 sufficient. 



For slide staining, iron hsematoxylin, Wright's and Giemsa stains 

 and thionin were used either with or without counterstains. The 

 blood stains used alone are unsatisfactory, since only the blue ingre- 

 dients seem to take hold of the tissues. Wright's stain, counter- 

 stained with alcoholic eosin, however, gave very good results. The 

 technique was as follows: The slide holding the sections was first 

 treated as a blood smear and allowed to lie with the mixture of 

 stain and water upon it for 10 to 15 minutes. It was then washed 

 first in water and then in 95 per cent, alcohol until all of the pre- 

 cipitated stain had dissolved. It was then stained with eosin dis- 

 solved in absolute alcohol, next passed into clean absolute alcohol, 

 and finally into xylol. Wright's stain comes out very rapidly in 

 alcohol, but the whole procedure as above outlined can be completed 

 in a very short time. 



Thionin preparations counterstained in either alcoholic eosin or 

 acid fuchsin in alcohol were largely used and gave in some respects 

 the best results. Preparations so stained display beautifully sharp 

 and clear-cut pictures, and they are very good when it is a question 

 of bringing out the chemical qualities of different parts of the para- 

 sites. On the other hand, thionin fails to bring out certain granules 

 in these Sarcosporidia which are perhaps significant, and slides 

 stained in thionin are not permanent. 



Accordingly, most of the slides were stained with iron hsematoxylin. 

 With material fixed in Hermann's fluid, a counterstain is not neces- 

 sary, although it was often used. With the other fixatives a 

 counterstain was necessary, and acid fuchsin was the one most 

 generally employed. 



The list of mice used follows: 



Mouse 77 15 hours. 



99 3 and 6 hours. 



106 ... 9hours A. C. A Heavymeal. 



120 . 10i and 17 hours Heavymeal. 



121 10| and 17 hours Heavymeal. 



L25 2J hours Hermann's fluid. 



128 3f hours Picro-acetic. 



132 .... 8J hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal. 



133 9 hours Hermann's fluid Heavy meal. 



145 llfhours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 




I'.UG.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 'i 



1 Mi Hi hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



147 'J 1 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



IIS IShours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



! I!) 24 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



!.">() 24 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



152 18 hours. Hermann's fluid. 



153 24hours Hermann's fluid Heavy meal. 



1.">I 24 hours. 



175 12'. hours Hermann's flui 



17(1 i:».l hours Hermann's fluid. 



177 14 -J- hours Hermann's fluid. 



178 I."), 1 , hours Hermann's fluid. 



179 16| hours Hermann's fluid/ 



180 17'. hours Hermann's fluid. 



lsi ISA hours Hermann's fluid. 



182 IShours Hermann's fluid. 



246 1 hour A. C. A Lightmeal. 



247 4 hours r..A. C. A Heavy meal. 



'_MS 2 hours A. C. A Moderate meal. 



•_'|o 3hours A. C. A Moderate meal. 



'-'.">(> ."> hours. A. C. A Heavymeal. 



•_'.")1 1 * hours A. C. A Very light meal. 



252 2\ hours A. C. A Very light meal. 



253 6hours A. C. A Heavy meal. 



•_'.")7 3 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



258 4 hours A. C. A Moderate meal. 



261. 4 hours Hermann's fluid Heavymeal. 



262 5 hours Hermann's fluid Moderate meal. 



Prior to taking up the description of the findings in the cells, it is 

 desirable to call attention to a phenomenon first signalized by Erd- 

 mann (1910). This is the exfoliation of the intestinal epithelium 

 which appears to follow ingestion of the spores of Sarcocystis. The 

 natural inference would be that this was due to the invasion and 

 subsequent destruction of the cells by the parasites, and such was 

 my original idea (Crawley, 1913). No doubt a certain amount of 

 exfoliation is to be accounted for in this way, but other factors are 

 involved. Thus Erdmann found that the ingestion of an extract of 

 Sarcocystis cysts, from which the spores themselves had been removed, 

 was followed by exfoliation, and data that I shall now give show 

 that the exfoliation takes place before any extensive invasion of the 

 cells. 



The intestines of a series of mice, all of which had been killed 

 within 6 hours after feeding, were examined and the conditions 

 presented by the epithelium in various parts of the intestine noted. 

 The results of this examination are tabulated below. Where no 

 exfoliation was demonstrable, the condition is indicated by the word 

 "none." Where, however, it is in evidence it is designated as 

 •-lie lit," "moderate," or "severe," according to its degree. 




8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Mouse 246, 1-hour Stage. 



Int. 1 Exfoliation slight. 



3 Exfoliation moderate. 



5 Exfoliation none. 



7 Exfoliation slight. 



9 Exfoliation slight. 



11 Exfoliation modern te. 



13 Exfoliation severe. 



15 Exfoliation severe. 



17 Exfoliation slight. 



19 Exfoliation none. 



21 Exfoliation severe. 



23 Exfoliation slight, 



25 Exfoliation none. 



Mouse 251, 1§-hour Stage. 



Int. 1 Exfoliation none. 



3 ". Exfoliation none. 



7 Exfoliation none. 



9 Exfoliation none. 



Mouse 248, 2-hour Stage. 



Int. 3 Exfoliation slight. 



8 Exfoliation none. 



9 Exfoliation none. 



15 Exfoliation slight, 



21 Exfoliation slight, 



26 Exfoliation none. 



27 Exfoliation none. 



28 Exfoliation none. 



30 Exfoliation very slight. 



32 Exfoliation very slight, 



Mouse 249, 3-hour Stage. 



Int. 2 Exfoliation moderate. 



6 Exfoliation none. 



8 Exfoliation none. 



10 Exfoliation none. 



12 Exfoliation none. 



17 Exf oliat ion moderate. 



18 Exfoliation slight. 



19 Exfoliation slight, 



20 Exf oliat ion very slight . 



22 Exf oliat ion none. 



24 Exfoliation none. 



29 Exfoliation slight, 



30 Exfoliation none. 



31 Exfoliation none. 



Mouse 261, 4-hour Stage. 



Int. — 1 Exf oliat ion none. 



— 3 Exfoliation slight, 



— 5 Exfoliation slight. 



Mouse 247, 4-hour Stage. 



Int. 12 Exfoliation none. 



14 Exfoliation none. 




19K).| NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



16 Exfoliation slighl . 



Is Exfoliation slight. 



19.. Exfolial ion slighl . 



30 Exfoliation slight. 



31 Exfolial ion very slighl . 



Mouse 262, 5 to 3-hour Stack. 



Int. — 1 Exfoliation none. 



— 2 Exfoliation slight. 



—3 Exfoliation slight. 



—4 Exfoliation severe. 



—5 '. Exfolial ion moderate. 



—6 Exfoliation mode rate. 



Mouse 250, 5-hour Stage. 



Int . 21 Exfoliation none. 



22 Exfoliation none. 



30 Exfoliation moderate. 



31 Exfoliation moderate. 



32 Exfoliation slight. 



33 Exfoliation moderate. 



Mouse 253, 6-hour Stage. 



Int. 10 Exfoliation slight. 



15 Exfoliation slight. 



16 Exfoliation none. 



19 Exfoliation questionable. 



25 Exfoliation slight. 



27 Exfoliation none. 



28 Exf oliat ion none. 



29 Exfoliation none. 



As already stated, as a result of the method of fixing the mouse 

 intestine, the epithelial row was at times torn loose from the sub- 

 epithelial connective tissue. It thus results that in some cases the 

 material presented a decidedly battered appearance. While, how- 

 ever, the epithelial row itself might thus be torn loose and more or 

 less broken, the individual cells were not thereby injured and their 

 appearance indicated an accurate fixation. 



On the other hand, it was frequently possible to see that the cells 

 at the tips of the villi were abnormal, this abnormality expressing 

 itself in a loss of staining capacity on the part of the cytoplasm and 

 an obvious degeneracy of the nuclei. This degeneracy, at first 

 affecting only the cells at the tips of the villi, passes into a condition 

 in which these cells have disappeared, while those lying along the 

 sides of the villi are affected. This condition, in its turn, passes 

 into one 'in which the villi are represented merely by stumps of 

 connective tissue, the epithelium being present only in the regions 

 between the bases of the villi. Finally a stage is reached in which 

 the intestine is wholly denuded of epithelium. In the lists given 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the term "slight" defines those conditions in which epithelial degen- 

 eration is just beginning to be manifest, and "moderate" conditions 

 where the tips of the villi are seriously affected, and "severe" con- 

 ditions where the destructive influence has gone further. 



The data given in the above lists seem to establish the fact that 

 exfoliation of the epithelium is correlated with ingestion of the 

 spores of Sarcosporidia, but they are not consistent amongst them- 

 selves. Thus, mouse 248, a 2-hour stage, is not so badly affected 

 as mouse 246, killed only one hour after feeding, whereas mouse 251, 

 a H-hour stage, shows no exfoliation at all, although in this last case 

 observations were confined to only a small part of the intestine. 



In the cases of Nos. 249 and 261, both 3-hour stages, and No. 247, 

 4-hour, exfoliation is not extensive, while No. 262, 5- to 3-hour, 

 shows a considerable amount near the posterior end of the intestine, 

 as does also No. 250, 5-hour. On the other hand, mouse 253, killed 

 6 hours after feeding, is but slightly affected. In view of the rather 

 contradictory nature of the data, it is impossible to attempt any 

 explanation of the modus operandi of loss of the epithelium. 



Erdmann suggested that the destruction of the epithelium was an 

 adaptation having for its purpose the easier penetration of the 

 spores into the tissues of the mouse. Presumably this destruction 

 is correlated with ingestion of the parasites, but if it be of any value 

 to host or parasite it seems more plausible to regard it as a defensive 

 move on the part of the former. In their attack upon the mouse 

 the parasites first invade the epithelial cells and this they do within 

 the first two or three hours. Obviously, then, the destruction of 

 this epithelium, either before or after penetration by the parasites 

 can only work to their disadvantage. Hence, while it is possible 

 to look upon this exfoliation as an adaptation on the part of the 

 host, there seems no good reason for so doing. It is a matter of 

 observation that exfoliation follows the ingestion of sarcosporidian 

 cysts, but it is also a matter of observation that such ingestion is 

 practically always followed by infection of the muscles. Hence, 

 the exfoliation is obviously not protective. 



The matter is, however, one of minor importance and the data 

 are merely given for what they are worth. 



Evolution of the Parasites in the Cells. . 



The account of the findings in the cells may appropriately be 

 begun with mouse 246, killed one hour after feeding. As indicated 

 in the table on p. 8, slides were prepared from the alternate pieces 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 1 



of the intestine from one end to the other. The anterior portions, 

 Nos. 1 to 11, were wholly negative, there being no spores cither in 

 the lumen or in the cells. Beginning with int. 13, however, spores 



were present in the lumen, and they were seen in the cells in int. 

 19, 23, and 25. Their absence from int. 21 is to he credited to the 

 severe exfoliation there present. 



From int. 13, where the spores were first seen in the lumen, there 

 was a rapid increase in their numbers in each successive piece, and 

 in the lumina of int. 23 and 25 they were present in enormous numbers. 

 From this it is evident that it requires but one hour for the ingested 

 spores to reach the extreme posterior end of the small intestine, and 

 as shown both by this and other mice, apparently the great majority 

 of them reach this situation very quickly. While they have also 

 been found in the caecum in very early stages, they evidently do not 

 pass from the small intestine into the caecum as readily as they 

 pass along the small intestine itself. This is evidenced by the fact 

 that in the earlier stages — up to 9 hours or thereabouts — the lasl 

 two or three centimeters of the small intestine always harbor spores 

 free in the lumen. 



There is thus brought about a state of affairs of some interest 

 when the earlier stages of the evolution of the parasites is under 

 consideration. It is evident that the spores pass along the small 

 intestine very rapidly until the posterior end is reached. The 

 length of time required for this stream of spores to pass a given point 

 will obviously vary in the different mice. In those cases where, as 

 a result of prolonged nibbling, the ingested meat reaches the stomach 

 thoroughly comminuted, we may presume that its stay in the stomach 

 is shortened and its movement along the small intestine more rapid. 

 On the other hand, when the meal is swallowed in large pieces, the 

 presumption is that it will remain in the stomach until it is softened 

 and disintegrated, and in consequence its progress along the small 

 intestine will be delayed. Nevertheless, digestion in mice of purely 

 animal matter is rapid, and in general at the end of a few hours spores 

 are scarce in the lumen of the upper and middle portions of the 

 small intestine. If, as a pure guess, we may assume that the stream 

 of spores requires one hour to pass a given point, then the spores 

 within the cells in any particular part of the intestine (except the 

 posterior end) will all have entered the cells within an hour of one 

 another. On the other hand, as we have seen, great numbers of the 

 spores reach the posterior part of the intestine within one hour, and 

 remain there for several hours, as is shown by finding them in this 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



situation in 9-hour stages. During the whole of this time it cannot 

 be questioned that individuals are constantly penetrating the cells. 



Therefore it seems reasonable to assume that within certain limits, 

 the intracellular spores in a given section of the upper or middle 

 parts of the intestine will be in somewhat the same developmental 

 stage. On the contrary, in the posterior part of the intestine, the 

 intracellular spores will represent a series in the development, covering 

 the greater part of the period of time elapsing between feeding and 

 the death of the mouse. Thus, in a 9-hour mouse, the parasites in 

 the cells of this extreme posterior part of the intestine might represent 

 forms which had been in the cells from only a few minutes up to 

 seven or eight hours, and in Nos. 132 and 133 it was evident that 

 this was the case. 



It further follows that in these posterior portions many more cells 

 are parasitized than elsewhere, since there is here maintained for 

 several hours a large supply of extracellular spores. 



Returning to the conditions as found in mouse 246, intracellular 

 spores in small numbers were found in int. 19, 23, and 25. These, 

 of course, represented the very earliest stages in the development 

 and in the main were not to be distinguished from those in the 

 lumen. In some cases, however, development had begun, thus 

 demonstrating the extreme rapidity with which these parasites go 

 through with their evolution. The mounted material of this mouse, 

 however, was prepared with a view of getting a general survey of 

 the conditions rather than for detailed cytologicaL study. Hence, 

 no figures of the parasites as found here have been made. 



Mouse 251. — Mouse 251 was killed 1| hours after feeding. 

 According to the observations made at the time of the infecting 

 teed, it received "a very light meal," but when the stomach and 

 intestine were prepared for study the findings suggested that whereas 

 relatively the meal may have been very light, positively such a 

 definition seemed scarcely appropriate. In the stomach, from 

 which the epithelium had largely disappeared, there were abundant 

 cysts of the parasite, many of which were more or less intact and 

 contained the greater number of the spores. In int. 1, 3, 5, and 7 

 there were abundant spores in the lumen, and in int. 9 they were 

 present both in the lumen and in the cells. 



Comparing the conditions found here with those in mouse 246, 

 it is to be noted that in the latter the spores were further back toward 

 the end of the intestine. In No. 246 the upper portions of the 

 intestine were free of spores, whereas in 251 these same portions 




l'JIO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



contained them in considerable abundance. These differences are. 

 as already suggested, probably to be accredited to differences in the 

 manner in which the two mice led. 



Taking up now the evolution of the spores within the intestine of 

 the mouse, we may advantageously use as a point of departure the 

 -pore as it occurs free in the lumen, for it is evident that development 

 lu 'gins here. 



Plate I, fig. 2, portrays such a spore and may be taken as the 

 point of departure, although in all the early stages the spores in the 

 lumen are identical with many of those in the cells. This particular 

 case is from mouse 248, a 2-hour stage, but it is valid for any of the 

 early stages. 



The characteristics of this stage are as follows: The contours of 

 the cell are sharp and clear cut, and there is a distinct bounding line 

 or periplast. The cytoplasm, while obviously alveolar, is dense and 

 ordinarily stains well. Granules may or may not be present. The 

 nucleus, which is conspicuous, is round and gives the appearance as 

 though in life it were turgid with nuclear sap. There is a distinct 

 nuclear membrane and a more or less distinct nuclear net is always 

 present. 



With regard to its shape, the spore in the lumen may be a smooth 

 oval, as, for examples, are the intracellular spores shown in Plate I, 

 figs. 3 and 4, or it may have the sides more or less bulged out in the 

 region of the nucleus. This latter phenomenon is due to the increase 

 in size of the nucleus, a process initiated very shortly after the spore 

 reaches the alimentary canal of the mouse. 



The appearance of the spores in the intestine, whether they be 

 in the lumen or in the cells, offers a considerable contrast to that of 

 spores removed from the cysts. . With regard to these latter, a 

 description is herewith given, although they are familiar objects 

 in the literature and have been described and figured a number of 

 times. 



Such spores are shown in Plate I, fig. 1. As is here indicated, one 

 end of the spore is broader, the other end narrower, and the nucleus 

 lies nearer the narrow end. 



The internal structure is obscure. The nucleus is a clear-cut 

 vesicle, and to all appearances is provided with a definitive mem- 

 brane. Xo internal structure can be made out, and the staining 

 reaction is feeble. In Giemsa preparation- it stains a pale reddish 

 color. 



The cytoplasm with Giemsa stains a dense blue. Its structure can 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



scarcely be determined, but it may be inferred that it is alveolar. 

 It is densest in the immediate vicinity of the nucleus. The broad 

 end of the spore is frequently much less dense than elsewhere and 

 at times shows a more or less well defined oval area. This appear- 

 ance, however, is probably due merely to the fact that here the 

 cytoplasm has a lower affinity for the stain than elsewhere. 



The same phenomenon is shown by the spores of Sarcocystis 

 leporum (Crawley, 1914). In the case of the rabbit parasite, as I 

 have endeavored to show, one end of the spore seems to be differen- 

 tiated into a sort of rostrum, the cytoplasm of which does not stain 

 as densely as does that of the balance of the spore. We are probably 

 dealing with the same thing in the case of Sarcocystis muris, but in 

 this parasite the differentiation of the rostrum is not so sharp. It 

 may furthermore be suggested that it is this clearer region in the 

 spore which has given rise to the belief, expressed by some authors, 

 that the sarcosporidian spore possesses a polar capsule. 



Comparing the spores taken directly from a cyst with those in the 

 intestine, the latter are broader, more oval bodies, and, although 

 this is not shown by the figures, there has been a loss of the granules 

 which are such a characteristic feature of the former. The most 

 noteworthy change, however, concerns the nucleus, which has 

 become larger, apparently much more turgid, and begins to show a 

 nuclear net. 



It is thus evident that evolution begins as soon as the spore reaches 

 the intestine of the mouse, and apparently the most important step 

 is a great increase in activity of the nucleus. This evolution, however, 

 does not appear to be carried far unless the spore gains a resting place 

 within a cell of the host. 



The cells invaded are the cylinder cells. At least this is so in the 

 vast majority of cases. Now and then, however, parasites are to be 

 found in mucous cells, but since the presence of a parasite in a cell 

 may result in mucoid degeneration, it is difficult to diagnose such 

 instances. The parasite may have invaded a mucous cell or it may 

 have caused mucoid degeneration of a cylinder cell. This question, 

 however, appears to be of no great importance. 



It is also well to emphasize the point that the spore is a naked 

 mass of protoplasm and that the only differentiation displayed by 

 the cytoplasm is the peripheral condensation into a periplastic layer. 

 Statements to the effect that the spore opens and releases an amcebula 

 are wholly without warrant, and polar filaments, either coiled up 

 within one end of the cell or discharged, do not exist. Claims of 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L5 



this sort, which have appeared in the literature from time to time, 

 seem to be due to an unfortunate desire to correlate the Sarcospo- 

 ridia with the Myxosporidia. These two groups may of course be 



closely related, bu1 as yet there is no conclusive evidence on hand 

 to show that they are. 



Plate I. figs. 3 and 1 show spores in the cells of int. 9 of mouse 2.51, 

 a l|-hour stage. It is to be noted that each of these lies in a vacuole. 

 Probably they have not been in the cells for more than an hour. 

 In both of them the cytoplasm is dense, compact, and deeply staining. 

 In both of them, also, the nucleus has enlarged and is separated from 

 the periplast only by very narrow strips of cytoplasm. 



There is, however, a difference in the nature of the net in these 

 two nuclei. In the case of fig. 3, the meshes in the centre are solidly 

 filled with chromatin, whereas in that of fig. 4 the chromatin is divided 

 into separate masses. In all of these early stages the chromatin has 

 a low affinity for stains, and, following the rule which seems to hold 

 generally true in Protozoa, takes the acid rather than the basic 

 -i a ins. On this account it results that these nuclei are rather difficult 

 microscopical objects, and seen with powers of less than 1,000 diame- 

 ters, a nucleus like that of fig. 3 looks like a vesicle containing only a 

 central granule. But with a magnification of 1,500 to 2,000, and an 

 intense artificial light, the structure as shown in the figure is brought 

 out. As will be shown later, fig. 3 represents the more primitive 

 condition, in which the chromatin is concentrated into a single mass, 

 within which, however, the meshes of the nuclear net can be traced. 

 In the case of fig. 4, the chromatin occurs in separate masses and the 

 central meshes of the net are largely clear. Nuclei precisely like 

 either of these may be seen in spores in the lumen. 



Mouse 24S. — Mouse 248 was killed two hours after feeding. Its 

 intestine was cut into 32 pieces, int. 32 representing the extreme 

 posterior portion. Observations were made on int. 3, 9, 15, 21, 27, 

 and 32. In the upper portions there were scattered spores in the 

 lumen and occasional specimens in the cells, but, following the 

 general rule, parasitization was not extensive until the more posterior 

 parts were reached. 



Plate I, fig. 5, from int. 27, shows a parasite lying in the usual vacuole 

 close to the free edge of the epithelium. The cytoplasm is dense, 

 while the nucleus shows very distinctly a nuclear net supporting 

 scattered chromatin granules. The nucleus, in this case, lies near 

 one end of the cell. Fig. 6, from int. 30, also represents what is 

 clearly a very early stage. The cytoplasm is dense and compact. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the cell contours are sharp and a periplast can be seen. The nucleus, 

 however, shows merely as a faintly stained vacuole containing some 

 formed substance, the details of which could not be made out. It 

 may here be remarked that in most of the cell parasites the nucleus 

 appears as a vesicle containing a nuclear net, and that in general 

 this nuclear net is the only part of the nucleus that stains. Hence 

 the net appears as though projected against a clear background. 

 On the other hand, it is frequently to be observed in the spores free 

 in the lumen, and much less frequently in those in the cells, that the 

 nuclear sap as well as the nuclear net has taken the stain, thus 

 obscuring the details of the latter. This condition is illustrated by 

 %. 6. 



In the preliminary note it was stated that at least a portion of the 

 intracellular spores rapidly underwent a change which expressed 

 itself in a reduction of the cytoplasm and an increase in the size of 

 the nucleus, the ultimate result of which was the production of a 

 body which was apparently only the enlarged original nucleus, the 

 cytoplasm having apparently all disappeared. This, it was stated, 

 was interpreted to be the male form. 



This evolution is illustrated in Plate I, figs. 7 to 11. Fig. 7 shows the 

 nuclear enlargement with no great amount of cytoplasmic reduction. 

 The nucleus is large and turgid, it causes the sides of the parasite to 

 bulge and shows a distinct net. This net consists of a central aggre- 

 gation from which strands run to the periphery. As already indicated 

 in the discussion of figs. 3 and 4, whereas the appearance of this 

 central aggregation differs considerably in the different specimens, 

 its structure appears to be fundamentally the same throughout. It 

 seems to lie merely the close-meshed central part of the nuclear net, 

 with the interspaces sometimes empty and sometimes filled in with 

 faintly staining chromatin. The latter is the more primitive 

 condition. 



The parasite shown in fig. 7 was from int. 15, or about the middle 

 of the intestine, and hence is presumably that of a parasite which 

 has been within the cell for some little time. Except, however, for 

 the notable enlargement of the nucleus, it has all the characteristics 

 of a very early stage. 



Fig. 8, from int. 30, represents a condition in which there has been 

 as yet no great amount of nuclear enlargement, but a slight degree of 

 cytoplasmic degeneration. In fig. 9 there is shown nuclear enlarge- 

 ment accompanied by a consiclerable degree of cytoplasmic degenera- 

 tion, as is evidenced by the vacuolization and rough contours of the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



cell. In fig. 10 the nucleus projects out from the sides of the cell, 

 while the cytoplasm is reduced and shows uneven contours. In 

 fig. 11 there is seen both nuclear enlargement and cytoplasmic 

 reduction. 



The initial steps in the evolution of the male element are illustrated 

 by the figures just described. The details of this evolution vary 

 greatly, and it is doubtless true that this variation in detail is the 

 result not only of variations in the actual biological process itself, 

 but is also dependent on the technique. Thus, in iron hsematoxylin 

 preparations there are always associated with the nucleus one or more 

 intensely black granules which are either not visible at all or only 

 faintly visible in Delaficld or thionin preparations. Furthermore, 

 in material stained in thionin the cytoplasm is frequently seen to be 

 separated into two portions, as shown in Plate I, figs. 12, 13, and 14. 

 Here the cytoplasm is broken up into a number of lumps or streaks 

 either lying embedded in a faintly staining ground substance (figs. 12 

 and 14) or apparently lying free in the vacuole which the parasite always 

 produces in the mouse cell (fig. 13). It is evident that one of these 

 conditions is readily derivable from the other. Thus, in figs. 12 and 



14, the cytoplasm has separated into a chromophil substance lying 

 within an almost achromatic substance. This latter gradually 

 di-appears, producing the condition shown in fig. 13. 



A high affinity for chromatin stains is characteristic of the by- 

 products of protoplasm, and is especially well brought out by thionin. 

 Thus, in material so stained, both degenerate nuclei and mucus are 

 deeply stained. In the former case we are dealing with a patho- 

 logical, in the latter with a physiological process, but in both with 

 protoplasmic by-products. In the case of these Sarcosporidia, the 

 great increase in the size of the nucleus seems to predicate a supply 

 of pabulum, and the suggestion is at least permissible that this 

 pabulum is supplied by the cytoplasm. If this were so, the presump- 

 tion would be that the densely staining flecks, as noted in figs. 12, 

 13, and 14, represent the cytoplasmic debris remaining after the 

 nucleus has robbed the cytoplasm of a part of its substance. It is 

 of course to be understood that the above is put forth merely as a 

 possibility, the matter being one scarcely open to a rigid demon- 

 stration. 



Mouse 125. — As noted in the list given on p. 6, this mouse repre- 

 sents the conditions from 2 to 2| hours after feeding. These are in 

 all essentials the same as those of mouse 248, as is evidenced by figs. 



15, 16, and 17. In the case of fig. 17, Plate II, it is to be noted that 



2 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



the cytoplasm is greatly reduced in quantity and is vacuolated, while 

 in all three the nucleus is enlarged and shows the usual nuclear net. 



Mouse 249. — This animal was killed three hours after feeding. Its 

 intestine was cut into 31 pieces numbered from 1 to 31. Observa- 

 tions were made upon the stomach and upon int. 2, 6, 8, 10, 12, 18, 

 20, 22, 30, and 31. The stomach and the first five pieces of the 

 intestine examined were negative. In int. 18 spores were present 

 in the lumen; in int. 20, 22, 30, and 31 they were found both in the 

 lumen and in the cells. 



It has already been shown (p. 11) that in some of the mice the 

 spores move along the intestine very rapidly, yet it is always to be 

 remembered that the failure to find them in a few selected slides is 

 not proof of their absence from the particular portions of the intestine 

 from which these slides were made. In this mouse it seems unlikely 

 that so much of the intestine was actually negative. 



It is in mouse 249 that the differentiation into males and females 

 first begins to be noticeable. In the case of the males, in which the 

 characteristic changes consist of a great enlargement of the nucleus 

 and a reduction of the cytoplasm, there is no confusion, since these 

 changes are conspicuous and readily detected. 



Thus, Plate II, figs. 18, 19, and 20 are all obviously males, since they all 

 show nuclear enlargement and cytoplasmic reduction. A particularly 

 good earmark of the males is the fact that the nucleus is not sur- 

 rounded by cytoplasm, the parasites consisting (fig. 18) of an enlarged 

 nucleus provided with two tongue- or cap-shaped masses of cyto- 

 plasm. The 'conspicuous black granule, mentioned above as 

 appearing in iron hematoxylin stains, is to be seen in fig. 20, whereas 

 fig. 19 shows a stage wherein the cytoplasm is nearly gone and the 

 nucleus has reached a size equal to that of many of the entire para- 

 sites. 



On the other hand, the differences between the female and the 

 original spore are by no means so striking. The female is relatively 

 shorter and broader, while the nucleus is sometimes larger and, 

 as a rule, shows the chromatin concentrated into a single large 

 karyosome. There is, however, no loss of cytoplasm. Moreover, 

 with an exception to be noted below, the female undergoes no such 

 conspicuous changes in the course of its evolution as does the male. 

 In consequence, in these early stages it is always difficult and some- 

 times impossible to say whether a given parasite is a female or merely 

 one which has been in the cell a short time. 



Hence, it is only with much reserve that fig. 21 , Plate II, may be pro- 




191G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



nounced that of a female. It possesses, however, the rather densely 

 staining cytoplasm characteristic for the females and the nucleus is 

 too small for a male. The deeply staining granules present in iron 

 hematoxylin material are here in evidence. 



Fig. 22 probably also represents a female since it is a smoothly 

 oval cell with dense cytoplasm, and the nucleus, while large, does 

 not cause any protrusion of the sides of the cell. The radiate nuclear 

 structure in this parasite is peculiar for such an early stage, and may 

 represent a very precocious case of maturation (see p. 30). 



Mouse 126. — This mouse was given the flesh of an infected animal 

 at a stated time and required one-half an hour to complete its meal. 

 It was killed three hours later and in consequence 1 represents the 

 conditions 3 to 3h hours after inoculation. Figs. 23 and 24, Plate II, 

 .ii-e from this mouse and show early male stages, as evidenced by the 

 enlarged nuclei and the scanty quantity of cytoplasm present. 



Mouse 261. — Mouse 261 was given a piece of infected muscle at 

 10 A.M. (Feb. 15, 1915). It began to eat at once and consumed a 

 considerable quantity of the infected material, but did not then 

 complete the meal. At 2 P.M. the mouse was chloroformed, the 

 infected muscle having been eaten in the interim. Hence, it repre- 

 sents the conditions from 4 hours down to some shorter period. The 

 only portions of the intestine examined in this case were int. --1 to 

 int. — 5, or the last five pieces. The intestine of this mouse was slit 

 open prior to fixation and in consequence the spores in the lumen 

 were lost. 



Since the study here was confined to the last few centimeters of 

 the intestine, a given intracellular spore might have been in its place 

 anywhere from a few minutes to three hours or more, and hence it 

 is impossible to pick out the early female stages with any degree of 

 certainty. Thus, fig. 25 might be either that of an early female 

 stage or of a parasite which had been in the cell for only a short time. 

 It is perhaps the same with fig. 26 which represents a form difficult 

 to classify satisfactorily. On the other hand, fig. 27 is an evident 

 early male, and both this and fig. 26 are of interest in showing very 

 clearly the nuclear structure. 



In a few cases, in mouse 261, males were found in which the lo- 

 ot cytoplasm was complete 1 . 



MouS( '.',7. — This mouse was killed four hours after feeding. It- 

 intestine was cut into 34 pieces, from int. 1 to 34, and observations 

 were made on int. 12, 14, 16, 19, 30, and 33. 



The differentiation into males and females is here carried ;i little 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



further, although it is still difficult to get forms that can positively 

 be diagnosed as females. 



An evident female, however, is shown in fig. 28, Plate II. This is taken 

 to be a female on account of its shape, its retention of the cytoplasm, 

 and the character of its nucleus. This latter element, as is shown 

 by the figure, is vesicular, with a sharply defined nuclear membrane 

 and a central mass of chromatin from which strands radiate to the 

 periphery. Fig. 29 shows another female. This figure is diagram- 

 matic, but is essentially like fig. 28. Both of these figures were 

 obtained from int. 14 of the mouse; that is, from the anterior half 

 of the intestine, and hence the presumption is that both of the 

 parasites drawn had been in the cells for some considerable time. 



Fig. 30, from int. 19, may also be that of a female, although here 

 the diagnosis is more doubtful, since the form rather suggests a 

 parasite which has been in the cell for only a short time. 



In addition to the females, characteristic early males were seen 

 in the cells of this mouse. 



Mouse 250. — This mouse was killed five hours after feeding. Its 

 intestine was cut into 34 pieces, numbered from 1 to 34, and observa- 

 tions were made on int. 21, 22, and 32. 



In this mouse it is much easier to distinguish between the males 

 and females, since the two lines of development have become well 

 separated. Thus, figs. 31 and 32, Plate II, represent males which have 

 reached what might be termed the nuclear stage; that is, the stage 

 in which the cytoplasm has nearly or quite disappeared. 



Thus, in fig. 31, the cytoplasm has all disappeared except for a 

 cap of degenerate-looking material at one end of the nucleus. The 

 nucleus itself shows the usual net, associated with which are several 

 black granules. Centrally there is an irregular mass of acidophil 

 chromatin in which lies a large black granule. This probably 

 represents the karyosome. 



Fig. 32 also represents a male. There is here to be seen a well- 

 defined net of rather broad strands and a number of black granules. 

 The meshes of the net are in some places filled with faintly staining 

 material. A karyosome does not appear to be present, although the 

 large black granule may perhaps represent it. The crescent of 

 staining substance at one end of the nucleus may represent the 

 remnant of the spore cytoplasm, but more probably is a crescent of 

 host tissue which not infrequently forms at the end of the vacuole 

 in which the parasite normally lies. Its actual detachment from the 

 parasite suggests it is the latter, and if this be so the cytoplasm of 




191f>.| NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



the parasite lias wholly disappeared and the vacuole in which the 

 nucleus lies is the vacuole originally formed by the parasite. 



Fig. 33, Plate II. represents a parasite from the same slide and same 

 section of the intestine as figs. 31 and32. It is clearly a female. The 



entire parasite is sharply outlined, and the cytoplasm is dense, 

 although showing several vacuole-. The nucleus is clear cut and 

 contains a large, rather faintly staining karyosome, together with 

 two black granules. * me of these granules lies within the karyosome. 

 the other appears to be in the space between the karyosome and 

 membrane, but it is possible that it actually lay upon the membrane 

 itself. In this particular case, strands connecting the karyosome 

 with the nuclear membrane could not be detected. 



Fig. 34 was also obtained from the same slide as figs. 31, 32, and 

 33, but not from the same section. The parasite was clearly outlined. 

 The cytoplasm, while not suggesting degeneration, was not homo- 

 geneous, but appeared to consist of a matrix in which were a number 

 of poorly defined denser areas. This is an appearance frequently 

 to be noted in the early female stages, but it has not been possible 

 to work out its significance. The nucleus of this parasite was clear 

 cut and contained a large, faintly staining karyosome. Little 

 strands radiated from the karyosome, but these could not be traced 

 to the nuclear membrane. Two black granules were present, one 

 within or upon the karyosome, the other on the nuclear membrane. 



The four parasites here figured and described typify conditions as 

 found in mouse 250. They appear to furnish satisfactory evidence 

 that the spores, after their invasion of the cells, separate into two 

 groups, the later evolution of which indicates that they are to be 

 regarded as males and females. This evolution, moreover, proceeds 

 at such a rate that at the end of five hours at least a considerable 

 number of the parasites can be separated into males and females. 

 It is also believed that the cases herewith considered are the more 

 convincing in that they were all taken from exactly the same place 

 in the intestine. This was the twenty-second piece of an intestine 

 cut into 34 pieces and therefore only two-thirds the way from the 

 anterior end. This permits of the presumption that these four 

 parasites had all entered the cells at somewhat the same time, and 

 that this was perhaps four hours prior to the death of the mouse. 



It is of course to be understood that in the whole intestine up to 

 6 hours, and in its extreme posterior portions up to 9 hours, the 

 parasites are in general in all sorts of conditions and that only a 

 portion are differentiated into males and females. Furthermore, 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



it is to be understood that the figures are, as is usual in such cases, 

 more or less diagrammatic, since it is impossible to reproduce the 

 exact appearances as found under the microscope. 



Mouse 253. — This mouse was killed 6 hours after feeding and its 

 intestine cut into 29 pieces, numbered from 1 to 29. Observations 

 were made on int. 15, 19, 25, 27, and 29. 



The conditions here are, of course, very much like those of mouse 

 250, the cells showing evident males and females along with a number 

 of others which had not evolved far enough to permit of their being 

 determined. Characteristic females are shown in figs. 35, 36, and, 

 Plate III, 37. A male is shown in fig. 38, which was taken from int. 16. 

 This, while differing somewhat from figs. 31 and 32, is nevertheless 

 obviously a male, since the cytoplasm has wholly disappeared and 

 the parasite consists of nothing more than the enlarged nucleus of 

 the original spore. 



Mouse 99. — This mouse was given two infective feeds separated 

 by an interval of 3 hours and killed 3 hours after the second. It 

 therefore represents the conditions at both 3 and 6 hours after 

 inoculation and it is usually possible, in the case of any given parasite, 

 to say to which of the two inoculations it belongs. Thus, fig. 39 is 

 obviously that of a male and no doubt belongs to the 6-hour stage. 



The Later Stages. 



The Male. — The early stages of the evolution of S. muris have, 

 as far as possible, been traced step by step as they occurred in mice 

 killed from 1 to 6 hours after inoculation. At the outset the spores 

 are apparently all alike, although it is possible that the dimorphism 

 may be in evidence even for the spores in the cysts, as appears to be 

 the case for the spores of Sarcocystis colli (Fantham, 1913). But 

 whether this be so or not, by the end of 6 hours at least a considerable 

 proportion of the parasites present are clearly separated into two 

 categories. 



For the later stages it is more convenient to follow these two lines 

 of development separately, instead of considering what is found at 

 the end of increasingly longer periods of time. For after the first 

 eight or ten hours the time factor ceases to be of value, and both 

 9- and 18-hour mice, for instance, may show identical stages of 

 evolution. The development of the male will first be considered. 



As we have already seen, in the first few hours the male parasites 

 lose most if not all of their cytoplasm and become reduced to an 

 element which is obviously only the enlarged nucleus of the original 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



spore. Eventually the chromatin of'these elements collects into a 

 number of small aggregates which arrange themselves around the 

 periphery of the parasite and transform themselves into what are 

 evidently the microgametes. It may be assumed that the evolution 

 of the male element, or niicrogametocyte, proceeds in an orderly 

 manner, and hence it should be possible to obtain an orderly series from 

 some such stage as that of fig. 31 (Plate II) to that of fig. 75 (Plate V). 

 It is not, however, possible to give all of the steps of this evolution. The 

 parasites are themselves small, ranging around 8." in diameter and in 

 consequence the details of their structure require the highest powers 

 of the microscope. There is not a great deal of staining material 

 within them, and the picture is confused by the fact that they lie 

 embedded within the cells of the mouse in sectioned material. It is 

 believed that in order to work out this evolution with precision it 

 would be necessary to develop a technique which would permit of 

 obtaining the parasites isolated, an end which could be gained either 

 by cultural methods or by devising some means of getting the para- 

 sites out of the cells in which they had developed. The few attempts 

 which have been'made along these lines have as yet not met with any 

 success. It is therefore to be understood that the details of the 

 evolution of the niicrogametocyte as here set forth are presented 

 with some reserve. 



Taking up now this development of the male from the stage found 

 in the 5- and 6-hour mice to that found at the end of 18 hours, the 

 earlier phases of it are illustrated by figs. 40 to 53 (Plate III). As it 

 happens, most of these are from mice 106 and 120, both of which 

 gave especially favorable material. What is seen here, however, is 

 confirmed by the findings in other mice of the same periods. 



Evidently what is found in the 2- to 6-hour mice will represent 

 conditions earlier than those found in mice killed 9 hours or more 

 after feeding, and in these former the nuclear net is coarse and has a 

 low affinity for chromatin stains (see figures of these stages). It is 

 a matter of common knowledge that the chemical nature of chromatin 

 varies with the physiological condition of the nucleus and that this is 

 manifested by a varying staining reaction. Thus, in the so-called 

 resting nuclei the chromatin has a relatively low percentage of 

 nucleic acid, and this is indicated by a relatively low affinity for 

 chromatin stains. On the other hand, as the nucleus prepares to 

 divide, the percentage of nucleic acid increases, and as this takes 

 place the chromatin displays a greater and greater affinity for chroma- 

 tin stains. The percentage of nucleic acid is greatest at the time 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



when the chromatin is divided into chromosomes, and this is also 

 the time when it stains most intensely. 



In the case of Protozoa, the resting, or better the trophic, nucleus 

 takes the plasma rather than the chromatin stains, a fact which 

 may be ascribed to an extremely low content in nucleic acid at such 

 times rather than to a fundamental difference between the chemistry 

 of protozoan and metazoan nuclei. But when in division, the 

 protozoan nucleus stains as does that of the Metazoa, and this 

 same staining reaction is also displayed by certain of the products of 

 this division, such as microgametes. 



It is therefore permissible to suppose that in these early male forms 

 of Sarcocystis muris, the coarseness of the threads of the nuclear net 

 is due to the fact that the achromatic filaments are bearing a quantity 

 of chromatin poor in nucleic acid. Besides being distributed along 

 the achromatic filaments and upon the inner surface of the nuclear 

 membrane, the chromatin may also occur in lumps, in masses which 

 fill up the meshes of the net, and there is apparently normally present 

 a larger mass or karyosome. 



In the course of several hours, however, this type of nucleus trans- 

 forms itself into a body such as is shown in figs. 66 and 67 (Plate IV) . 

 This is an oval element containing some achromatic stringy substance 

 and showing around the periphery a series of granular clusters. 

 The granules composing these clusters are extremely minute, but 

 intensely chromophil, staining as do the chromosomes of a dividing 

 metazoan cell. In spite of their minute size they are readily resolved. 



We thus start with a nucleus having a considerable bulk of chro- 

 matin which has a low affinity for chromatin stains. Morpho- 

 logically, this chromatin occurs as granules, irregular masses and 

 bands, borne either by the nuclear net or upon the inner surface of 

 the nuclear membrane. There is also usually present a central mass 

 or karyosome. After several hours, however, the chromatin has 

 diminished in bulk, has an intense affinity for chromatin stains, and 

 is placed around the periphery in the form of clusters of minute 

 granules. The conspicuous changes then consist in the taking on 

 of a high affinity for basic stains, subdivision into minute granules 

 and migration to the periphery. 



The desire is to show the several steps in this transformation. 



The earlier conditions are shown by figs. 31, 32, 38, and 39. Figs. 

 31 and 32 are from mouse 250, a 5-hour stage; fig. 38 from mouse 

 253 (6 hours), and fig. 39 from mouse 99 and presumably represents 

 the 6-hour stage. These four figures show very distinctly the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



variations with regard to what is interpreted to be the karyosome. 

 In fig. 32 it is either absent or represented by the large black granule. 

 In fig. 31 the irregular central mass provided with a Mack grannie 

 presumably represents this element. In fig. 38 it is a large irregular 

 body, while in fig. 39 it is a large oval deeply staining granule, splil 

 nearly into two by a cleft. To some extent these differences are 

 due to the technique employed, but in the main they represent actual 

 differences in the morphology of the parasite itself. 



Passing now to mouse 106, a 9-hour stage which yielded highly fav< >r- 

 able material, we have figs. 40and41 (Plate III). Fig. 41 is very much 

 like fig. 39, except for the staining reaction of the karyosome. Fig. 

 40 bears a general resemblance to figs. 31, 32, and 38. It is therefore 

 apparent that figs. 40 and 41 represent the earlier of the stages 

 present in mouse 106 and hence the starting point from which a 

 number of these have arisen. For the parasites in a 9-hour mouse 

 may have been in the cells anywhere from a very short time up to 

 perhaps 8 hours. Hence, in passing from mouse 99, 250, or 253 to 

 mouse 106, it is not necessary and would, indeed, be a mistake to 

 assume that we had also passed over 3 or 4 hours of time spent in 

 development. The period elapsing between the inoculation and 

 death of the mouse, at least as far as concerns the periods up to 9 or 

 10 hours, is of value only as a high limit. A parasite of mouse 253 

 cannot be more than 6 hours old; one of mouse 106 cannot be more 

 than 9 hours, and this is all that can be stated with absolute cer- 

 tainty. Nevertheless, the parasites of mouse 106 will in general be 

 older than those of mouse 253, even though they will in a number of 

 cases represent the same stages of development. It is therefore 

 permissible to use parasites such as are shown in figs. 31, 32, 38, and 

 39, as well as figs. 40 and 41, in tracing the later stages as found in 

 mouse 106. 



It is easy to pick out conditions readily derivable from these. 

 Thus, fig. 42 (upper cell) is a good deal like fig. 41. Fig. 43 is also 

 very much like fig. 41, except for the strip of basophil chromatin 

 which runs across the nucleus. Fig. 44 also displays a general 

 resemblance to the earlier stages, but has developed a greater quan- 

 tity of basophil chromatin present in the form of scattered granules. 

 A similar state of affairs is seen in fig. 45, in which the somewhat 

 quadrangular mass of acidophil chromatin situated in the centre 

 may represent the karyosome. In figs. 46 and 47, we have parasites 

 in which the chromatin is all basophil and occurs in a rather finely 

 divided state. In the case of the two parasites shown in fig. 42. 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



while they are not wholly unlike morphologically, the chromatin of 

 the one is acidophil, of the other basophil, and the fact that they lie 

 side by side seems to preclude ascribing this difference to irregular 

 action of the stain. 



It is to be observed that all of the changes noted above point toward 

 the production of finely divided and highly basophil chromatin. 



As pointed out above, in the early stages, a karyosome may or 

 may not be present. When it is present, its evolution appears to 

 take place as follows) In figs. 31, 38, 40, 44, and 48 the karyosome 

 is composed of acidophil chromatin, associated with which are one 

 or more basophil granules. A karyosome of the type shown in 

 figs. 40 and 48, consisting of a rounded acidophil mass bearing several 

 sharply basophil granules, was quite common. In fig. 47 there is a 

 ring of basophil granules, and figs. 46 and 49 show somewhat similar 

 phenomena. We seem here to be dealing with the conversion of 

 the karyosome from an acidophil mass into a group of basophil 

 granules. 



Resuming the account of the evolution of the entire parasite, 

 fig. 53, from mouse 120, shows two parasites lying side by side. 

 In the upper one the central body appears to represent the karyosome, 

 here partly basophil and partly acidophil. In addition to this, the 

 organism contains some acidophil material of irregular form together 

 with a number of basophil granules, some of which are placed at the 

 periphery. The lower parasite shows a central basophil mass and 

 a number of basophil granules extending out from it. These para- 

 sites, from int. 8 of mouse 120, should represent later rather than 

 earlier conditions, and they can be derived from, what is shown in 

 figs. 45, 47, and 48. The lower of the two, also, is very much like 

 fig. 49. 



It is always to be kept in mind that we are endeavoring to trace 

 the development of a structure showing a typical nuclear net, and 

 displaying both acidophil and basophil chromatin throughout its 

 entire extent to one in which all the chromatin present is intensely 

 basophil and occurs as clusters of minute granules around the periph- 

 ery of the parasite. Biological processes never proceed with mathe- 

 matical precision, and hence we cannot look to find these three 

 processes taking place side by side. But it is entirely reasonable to 

 assume that if we compare any two parasites and find one of them 

 more advanced with reference to one or more of these three con- 

 ditions that it represents the later stage. Thus the lower parasite 

 of fig. 42 is older than the upper, and the same thing may be said of 




lt> 16.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



fig. 53. Figs. 46, 47. and 49 represent later stages than figs. 40, 

 44, and 45. On the other hand, in figs. 44 and 48, while the chromatin 



is in part in the form of small basophil granules, the balance of it is 

 acidophil. Hence, it would not be possible to say whether these 

 represent older or younger stages than the lower parasite of fig. 42 

 Again, as between figs. 49 and 53, upper parasite, the chromatin, of 

 the former is all basophil, while that of the latter is showing a greater 

 disposition to assemble at the periphery. The cases last given 

 illustrate the irregularity with which the evolution proceeds. 



Fig. 54 (Plate IV) is from mouse 120. It shows a parasite with an 

 irregular central mass from which prolongations run toward the pe- 

 riphery. The staining reaction is partly basophil and partly acidophil . 

 The basophil substance is partly in the form of granules and partly 

 occurs as streaks and bands, but it is not improbable that these 

 latter are composed of closely compacted granules, as is evidently 

 the case, for instance, in the large aggregation of fig. 49. The 

 central mass as shown in fig. 54 could have been derived from a karyo- 

 some of the type shown in fig. 44. Finally, in addition to the central 

 mass shown here (fig. 54), there are four more or less well-defined 

 clusters of chromatin granules, in two of which the granules are very 

 minute. 



The conditions shown in fig. 54 appear to be followed by those 

 shown in figs.. 55 and 56. In these latter there is a central mass 

 sending out prolongations toward the periphery, but the chromatin 

 is more completely basophil and more completely separated into 

 granules. There is also the same tendency, at least in fig. 55, for 

 the granules to be disposed in clusters. In these two parasites 

 (figs. 55 and 56) there is very little achromatic material remaining, 

 and this is in part only the fragments of the linin network. The 

 parasite shown in fig. 57 appears also to belong to this stage of the 

 evolution. 



The development is carried further in the organisms shown in 

 figs. 58 and-59. In these the arrangement of the chromatin granules 

 into aggregates is more obvious. A comparison of figs. 54 and 55 

 with fig. 59 suggests that at least in some cases the modus operandi 

 is for the chromatin to assume the form of a very irregular dendritic 

 mass which later breaks up into smaller masses. Thus, in fig. 59 

 six of these small masses have already become individualized, and 

 one more seems about to become free. In fig. 58, although the 

 granules are very small, only three such masses have become 

 independent. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



The parasites shown in figs. 63 and 64 may belong in the above 

 cycle. Although the central mass of fig. 64 is larger than that of 

 fig. 54, its arrangement is not wholly different. Fig. 63, however, 

 cannot very well be placed. 



Figs. 60 and 61, from mouse 179, give slightly later stages than 

 figs. 58 and 59. At least the central dendritic mass has disappeared 

 and the chromatin is distributed throughout the entire nucleus, 

 either in clusters or as separate granules. Furthermore, there is a 

 marked disposition for the clusters to assume a peripheral position, 

 especially well marked in fig. 61. The smaller size of the granular 

 clusters in figs. 60 and 61 than in figs. 58 and 59 suggests that in 

 these last the clusters are destined to subdivide before reaching a 

 peripheral position, a suggestion supported by what is seen in figs. 

 62, 65, 66, and 67. 



In figs. 60 and 61 all of the chromatin which could be seen by 

 raising and lowering the focus was drawn, and hence some of the 

 chromatin apparently central was actually peripheral. In fig. 62, 

 only an optical section of the parasite is drawn. Here evolution 

 has reached the stage where all of the chromatin is in the form of 

 minute granules assembled in clusters that lie around the periphery. 

 It is to be noted, however, that they are irregularly placed. The 

 next stage is shown in fig. 66, where the clusters have come to lie in 

 regular order around the periphery. Fig. 65 no doubt represents 

 the same stage, but apparently shows only a part of the organism. 

 In fig. 67 the clusters, which are the future microgametes or their 

 nuclei, have begun to solidify. The further steps in this process 

 are shown in figs. 68, 69, and 70, the last showing that the nuclei 

 finally become rounded solid balls of highly basophil chromatin. 

 Fig. 71 shows a condition intermediate between figs. 69 and 70. 



Fig. 52 (Plate III) shows a parasite in which the chromatin is present 

 in the form of solid balls more or less strung together. The form and 

 solidity of the chromatin masses suggest the later stages such as 

 are pictured in figs. 70 and 71, whereas their arrangement as well as 

 the elongated oval form of the parasite recalls earlier conditions. 

 At times, however, the parasite reaches the end of its development 

 while still retaining this oval form (fig. 74, Plate V). 



The final stages of the evolution of the microgametocyte are 

 given in figs. 72 to 76 (Plate V). In fig. 72 the solid rounded elements 

 are seen to be elongating, and this elongation is carried further in the 

 case of fig. 73. Figs. 74 to 76 portray the microgametes. They always 

 lie on the periphery, and fig. 76 gives the aspect as viewed in optical 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



section, whereas in the other two figures more than an optical section 

 is shown. Figs. 75 and 7ti are the more typical; in fig. 71 the para- 

 site is unusually small for this stage, but is characteristic in showing 

 very clearly the arrangement of the microgametes around the 

 periphery. 



The fully evolved male element or microgametocyte is a rounded 

 or oval body, showing a stringy or amorphous residual mass and a 

 -tries of microgametes disposed around the periphery. These latter 

 are bodies about 2 to 2.5 microns long, broader at one end than the 

 other and apparently composed wholly of intensely basophil chro- 

 matin. This is at least their appearance in sectioned material, it 

 is not impossible that in life, or in material otherwise prepared, 

 they may show more than is here evident. Analogy would lead us 

 to suspect the existence of flagella. 



This stage is apparently of short duration. Mouse 152, killed 

 18 hours after feeding, was heavily parasitized, but the exact stage 

 shown in fig. 75 was comparatively scarce. This, however, is much 

 as might be expected. The presumption is that the microgametes 

 are motile elements, and once they 'are fully ripe they doubtless 

 quickly abandon the situation in which they evolved, and without 

 them the residuum would scarcely be recognizable. 



In number they varj-, following the counts made, from 13 to 17. 

 Allowing both for an actual- variation and for the practical difficulties 

 in making an accurate determination, the supposition is plausible 

 that the typical number is sixteen. It is a familiar biological 

 phenomenon that in those cases where the number of elements 

 ultimately produced is some power of two, we are dealing with the 

 results of the repeated division of some one original element. In 

 this case, however, the end appears to lie attained in a less regular 

 manner. 



In the description of the later stages of the e\ r olution of the male 

 element, reference was confined to the conditions as found in mice 

 106, 120, 152, and 179, respectively, 9, 10| and 17, 18 and 16| hour-. 

 The first three of these gave particularly favorable material, all of them 

 being heavily parasitized and none showing much destruction of 

 the cells. The conditions seen here, however, were duplicated in 

 other mice. Thus, Nos. 113, 132, and 133, all either Sh- or 9-hour 

 periods, showed many of the same stages as were seen in mouse 106, 

 while the later stages in the evolution of the microgametes were seen 

 in mice 121, 175, 177, 178, 180, and 182, representing periods ranging 

 from 10| to 18 hours. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



The Female. — It has already been shown that the female, in the 

 5- and 6-hour mice, is an oval cell with rather compact cytoplasm 

 and a vesicular nucleus with a large central body, the karyosome. 

 It is illustrated in figs. 33 to 37. The nuclear structure is com- 

 paratively simple and is portrayed well enough by the figures. The 

 nuclear membrane is usually clear cut, and there is always present 

 a large karyosome which takes the acid rather than the basic stain. 

 The karyosome frequently has associated with it one or more sharply 

 basophil granules, and may or may not show strands extending out 

 toward the nuclear membrane. 



It is difficult, however, to show the cytoplasm as it actually occurs, 

 and in the main this has been done in the figures in a purely conven- 

 tional maimer. Its fundamental structure appears to be alveolar 

 with the alveoles quite small and frequently tending to be variable 

 in size. The picture, however, is greatly confused by the fact that 

 in general both spongioplasm and hyaloplasm stain with much the 

 same degree of intensity and both have a rather high affinity for 

 plasma stains. Figs. 35, 77, 78, and 81 are attempts to show the 

 conditions as they actually occur. In fig. 35 (Plate II) the alveolar 

 structure is evident, although somewhat obscured, while it is seen 

 much more clearly in fig. 81 (Plate V) . Parasites in which the alveolar , 

 structure was as obvious as in fig. 81 could be found, but they were 

 rare. Figs. 34, 77, and 78 show the cytoplasm to consist of an aggrega- 

 tion of poorly defined rounded bodies lying in a paler matrix. This was 

 a frequent appearance. The black granules seen in some of the figures 

 represent the black granules usually to be seen in material stained 

 with iron hematoxylin. Frequently,' also, the cytoplasm is vacuolated. 



The general appearance here described does not undergo any great 

 change. Thus, figs. 28 (mouse 247) and 79 (mouse 113), respectively 

 4- and 9-hour stages, are much alike, as are figs. 77 and 78, respect- 

 ively, from 6- and 9-hour mice. 



There is, however, one phenomenon presented which appears to 

 he of interest. One phase of this is shown in figs. 81 and 82. In 

 each of these the nucleus presents somewhat the appearance of a 

 wheel. There is in each case a central acidophil karyosome which 

 si mis out strands to the periphery. Around the periphery are a 

 number of basophil granules. This condition was not at all infrequent 

 and appeared to be especially characteristic of the intermediate 

 periods of 9 or 10 hours. It was, however, seen in mouse 77, a 

 15-hour stage. We also have the condition illustrated in fig. 83, 

 where there is some basophil material outside of the nucleus. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



The appearances suggest maturation, a suggestion which is 

 strengthened by what is seen in figs. 84 to 87. In these the nucleus 

 is the typical vesicle with its central karyosome, while the cytoplasm 

 is more or less liberally provided with sharply staining granules. 

 It seems permissible to suppose that we are here dealing with later 

 stages in which the rejected chromatin has passed out into the cyto- 

 plasm. 



Here it is apparently absorbed, since the fully mature macrogamete 

 shows no indications of it. This phase of the life history of S. muris 

 is protrayed by figs. 88 to 91, from mice 120, 145, and 152. The 

 second of these was killed 11 \ hours after inoculation, and hence the 

 macrogamete may reach the end of its development within this 

 period of time. 



Fertilization. 



The earlier stages of the parasite are passed while within a cylinder 

 cell of the intestinal epithelium in its proper place in the epithelial 

 row. The parasite, however, has a deleterious influence on the cell 

 it invades and apparently always destroys it in the end. It would 

 then necessarily follow that the remnant of the cell, with its con- 

 tained parasite, would, by pressure, be thrust out of its place in the 

 epithelial row. In so far as the mechanics of the process are con- 

 cerned, there does not seem to be any choice as to whether the dead 

 cell would be pushed out into the lumen or beneath the row into the 

 subepithelial tissue. It looks as though one contingency would be 

 as likely to occur as the other. 



Nevertheless, as early as 9 hours, but more particularly later, a 

 considerable number of the parasites are to be found beneath the 

 epithelium. This is more particularly the case with the macro- 

 gametes, which is further in accord with the probabilities. For the 

 macrogametocyte is a rather compact, solid-looking element and 

 presumably will retain its integrity even though subjected to mechani- 

 cal stress. On the contrary, the microgametocyte, the bulk of which 

 is obviously merely decadent residual matter, would presumably 

 readily yield and break tip if acted upon by pressure. 



Here and there in the epithelium a ripe male cell occurs in which 

 the microgametes appear to be streaming out into the subepithelial 

 tissue. Conditions such as these may, of course, be interpreted in 

 two ways: the microgametes may have reached their places 

 beneath the epithelium either actively or passively. An examination 

 of fixed material clearly sheds no light on such a question, but anal- 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



favors the view that such a movement is the result of an actual 

 motility, of the microgametes themselves. It may also be that in 

 life the macrogametes are amoeboid and gain their subepithelial 

 situation through their own motility, but here the probabilities are 

 the other way. Analogy is not in favor of a belief that the macro- 

 gamete is motile, nor do the macrogametes ever show amoeboid 

 outlines in the fixed material. 



As to the actual situation of the parasites which occur beneath 

 the epithelium, the fixed material does not give wholly conclusive 

 evidence. They appear, however, to occur rather between the row 

 of cells and the stroma than in the stroma itself. 



We thus have obvious male elements and obvious female elements 

 occurring beneath the row of epithelium cells. The production of 

 male and female cells necessarily involves their union, and the 

 environment in which they both occur offers no obstacle to such a 

 procedure. It is evident that the proper demonstration of such a 

 process should be made upon living material, since, in a situation 

 such as has been indicated, the identification of a minute fragment 

 of highly basophil matter as a microgamete is largely a matter of 

 guess-work. It is easy enough to identify the thread-like bodies 

 of figs. 75 or 76 as microgametes, since here their relationships with 

 their surroundings can be established. But it is clear that an isolated 

 microgamete cannot be identified when it occurs in a region pre- 

 senting such a confused picture as does the subepithelial tissue of 

 the mammalian intestine. 



Nevertheless, when the macrogametes as they occurred in the 

 subepithelial tissues of mouse 152 were studied, it was possible to 

 separate them into two categories. A certain number were as 

 figs. 88 to 91. Others were as fig. 93. These differ only that in the 

 latter there was present in the cytoplasm a sharply basophil body. 

 Also, conditions such as are illustrated in fig. 92 were found, where 

 two elongated sharply basophil bodies are seen either lying upon or 

 partly within the cytoplasm of a macrogamete. In consideration 

 of the fact that it is axiomatic that the development of males and 

 females involves fertilization, the indirect evidence here offered as 

 1o the actuality of the process seems satisfactory. Fig. 92 shows 

 two supposed microgametes associated with the macrogamete, but 

 it is safe to conclude that only one would have been successful in 

 effecting union. 



The three cells shown in fig. 93 have somewhat irregular outlines, 

 this being the condition as found. Assuming that this is not an 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



artifact, it indicates that they arc in no sense encysted, but are 

 rather naked masses of cytoplasm. This irregularity of outline, 

 however, is not necessarily associated with the supposed fertilization, 

 since many of the macrogametes which showed the conspicuous 

 chromatin body had maintained their smooth and regularly curved 

 contours. 



Discussion. 



If the evolution of the macro- and microgametocytes of S. muris, 

 as outlined above, be compared with that of Coccidium schubergi, as 

 worked out by Schaudinn (1900) it will be seen that there is a very 

 close resemblance. Thus, in both, the chromatin of the micro- 

 gametocyte becomes divided into very small particles which collect 

 in masses at the periphery and there condense to form the micro- 

 gametes. This mode of division is designated by Minchin (1912) 

 as chromidial fragmentation, the minute granules themselves being 

 the familiar chromidia. Similarly, in both the sarcosporidian and 

 the coccidian, the nucleus of the macrogametocyte discharges chro- 

 matic granules into the cytoplasm where they are apparently 

 absorbed. 



On the other hand, there are many marked differences. In the 

 first place, in S. muris the male cell loses most if not all of its cyto- 

 plasm, the formation of the microgametes taking place in what is 

 morphologically the nucleus. Hence, there is not only no increase 

 in size of the parasite after it gains an entrance into a host cell, but 

 actually a loss of substance. It is somewhat the same with the 

 female cell which, while it gains in bulk, does so to a rather limited 

 extent. This is in marked contrast to the phenomena displayed by 

 Coccidium schubergi, in which the macro- and microgametocytes are 

 many times bulkier than the -merozoites from which they took origin. 



The sarcosporidian runs through its sexual development within 

 from 9 to 18 hours, while judging from the data given by Schaudinn 

 (p. 217), the coccidian requires about two days. 



The resemblances and differences between these two parasitic 

 Protozoa are here merely pointed out. The resemblances are 

 certainly very striking, but it seems premature to assign any signifi- 

 cance to them. It is conceivable that they indicate a genetic rela- 

 tionship between the Sarcosporidia and Coccidia, but it is just as 

 likely that we are dealing with phenomena broader than those 

 suitable for connecting groups of the value of the Coccidia and 

 Sarcosporidia. The problem is one that requires more evidence 

 before any far-reaching conclusions are warranted. 

 3 




3-4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan.. 



Some of the features presented by the evolution of S. muris, 

 however, when considered wholly by themselves, are worthy of 

 attention. One of the most striking of these is the loss of cytoplasm 

 displayed by the microgametocyte. So far as I am aware, no other 

 protozoan displays a mode of development at all like this. Yet it 

 is perhaps not so different from the usual procedure as it may at 

 first seem. In all cases of the evolution of microgametes in Sporozoa 

 the cytoplasm is largely or wholly inert. Thus, in the case used for 

 comparison, that of Coccidium schubergi, the nuclear membrane 

 dissolves and the chromidia collect in the cytoplasm where they 

 eventually produce the microgametes. But there is nothing to 

 show that the cytoplasm takes any active part in this development. 

 It may function merely as a mechanical support for the micro- 

 gametes. Furthermore, at the end of development the microgametes 

 abandon the cytoplasmic mass, which is merely left behind. 



This, indeed, is generally true. Throughout the entire group of 

 the Sporozoa the fully developed microgametocyte consists of a 

 number of microgametes associated with a residuum that represents 

 unused cytoplasm. This residuum is always abandoned, and, so 

 far as it is possible to see, it is always about equal in bulk to that of 

 the original cytoplasmic mass. It may therefore be suggested that 

 in the case of *S. muris, the discarding of the cytoplasm merely takes 

 place before the microgametes are developed instead of afterward. 



The next peculiarity is the fact that there is either only a slight 

 gain of substance, as in the females, or an actual loss, as in the males. 

 This is probably correlated with the speed with which the develop- 

 ment is effected. In general, parasitic Protozoa that live in cells 

 enter these cells as very minute bodies which increase in size for a 

 longer or shorter period, growing at the expense of the cell, and it is 

 only after they have reached a certain size that they divide. That 

 is, the host cells are the dwelling places of these parasites. 



But in the case of »S. muris in the intestinal epithelium of the 

 mouse, the host cell appears to be used merely as a temporary lodging 

 place. The parasites, although they appear usually to destroy the 

 cells they invade, do not seem to feed upon them. No sooner do 

 they come to rest than they proceed forthwith to evolve into the 

 mature sexual stages, which are produced within 18 hours or less. 

 It is apparent that the so-called spore possesses enough energy at 

 the outset to carry on this development, and it seems much more 

 plausible to look upon the granules which the spores contain as 

 reserve food than as the so-called sarcocystin. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



My studies do not extend beyond the formation of the zygote. 

 In mice killed one to two days after feeding, oval cells resembling 

 the zygotes, hut larger, are quite frequent. These are most abundant 

 in the villi beneath the epithelial row, but they also occur in the cells 

 and occasionally free in the lumen. Their ultimate fate has not 

 been followed, but Erdmann (1914) describes what seems to be 

 schizogony in the cells and subepithelial tissues of mice killed several 

 days after feeding, and it is not at all unlikely that the oval bodies 

 mentioned above are schizonts. 



One fact stands out clearly: the banana-shaped body of the Sar- 

 cosporidia is not a spore 1 . There was never any reason to suppose 

 that it was, even though this misleading designation has been used 

 exclusively in the literature during recent years. Labbe (1899) 

 designated it as a sporozoite, which, in view of its form, is far more 

 plausible, and may indeed be a correct designation, so far as it is 

 allowable to apply terms based on the conditions in the Telosporidia 

 to stages of Sarcosporidia. For if the oval bodies occurring in one- 

 and two-day mice give rise to the schizonts described by Erdmann, 

 and if the products of this schizogony give origin to the familiar 

 muscle cysts, then apparently the banana-shaped body is in some 

 respects at least the analogue of the coccidian sporozoite. 



As against this interpretation is the fact that in ( Joccidia, where 

 there is both schizogony and sporogony, the sporonts are derived 

 from merozoites. This would suggest that the banana-shaped 

 sarcosporidian element is a merozoite. Obviously, however, the 

 evidence at hand is not sufficient to warrant a conclusion. Accord- 

 ingly, it has been considered best to follow recent custom and to 

 retain the term spore, despite the fact that it is incorrect, for it is 

 believed that this procedure is less confusing than to adopt a 

 different designation which future discovery might show to be 



equally incorrect. 



Summary. 



(1) The spores of Sarcocystis muris, ingested by a mouse, may 

 reach the posterior part of the small intestine within one hour. 



(2) Invasion of the epithelium cells of the intestine may also take 

 place within the same time. 



(3) Upon reaching the lumen of the intestine, the spore rapidly 

 undergoes changes. The nucleus becomes larger and more con- 

 spicuous, and a distinct nuclear net becomes evident. The granules 

 characteristic of the spore as it occurs in the cyst either disappear 

 or become much less evident. Further changes, however, do not 

 take place unless the spore gains an intracellular situation. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



(4) The spores are sexually differentiated, but it does not appear 

 to be possible, at the outset, to distinguish between the males and 

 females. 



(5) Within the mouse cells the changes undergone by the males, 

 or microgametocytes, begin to be evident at the end of H to 2 hours. 



(6) These changes are, first, a further increase in the size of the 

 nucleus accompanied by a further development of the nuclear net, 

 and, second, degeneration and ultimate disappearance of the cyto- 

 plasm. The cell contours become rough and irregular, vacuolization 

 occurs, the cytoplasm becomes reduced to two masses of debris 

 lying at the ends of the nucleus. These finally disappear, the entire 

 process usually being completed at the end of 6 hours. The micro- 

 gametocyte is thus reduced to its original nucleus, which, however, 

 is of approximately the same size as the original spore. 



(7) Conspicuous internal changes next take place, which modify 

 both the morphology and chemistry of the parasite. They may be 

 considered under three headings, but they all take place more or less 

 simultaneously. 



(a) The chromatin appears to suffer a loss in actual bulk, but 

 alters in staining reaction from acidophil to basophil. 



(b) From occurring in large irregular masses or distributed along 

 the threads of the linin net in strips or bands, the chromatin is 

 reduced to granules which become progressively smaller and smaller 

 and at the same time display a greater and greater affinity for chro- 

 matin stains. 



(c) These granules finally assemble in clusters around the periphery 

 of the organism. 



(8) The next step is the solidification of these granular clusters 

 into rounded, solid balls. These balls next elongate and become 

 minute, thread-like bodies, which are the microgametes. This stage 

 may be found in mice killed from 9 to 18 hours after inoculation. 

 It is very rare in the shorter of these two periods, but has apparently 

 passed its acme at the end of 18 hours. 



(9) The females go through with their development side bj r side 

 with the males, but there are no such conspicuous changes and the 

 early female stages are much like the spore which has just entered 

 the cell. 



(10) In the course of a few hours, however, the females can be 

 picked out, appearing as broadly oval cells, relatively shorter and 

 broader than the original spores. The cytoplasm is all retained and 

 assumes a rather dense alveolar texture. The nucleus shows no 




L916-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



evidenl increase in size. The unclear net does not develop as it does 

 in the male parasite, luii the chromatin concentrates into a single 

 large karyosome which maintains an acidophil rather than a basophil 

 staining reaction. 



(11) In the 6- to 15-hour periods, phenomena are seen which seem 

 besl interpreted by regarding them as maturation. Irregular 

 chromatin granules appear in close association with the nuclear 

 membrane. Later these granules pass out into the cytoplasm, and 

 finally disappear. 



(12) The mature female, or macrogamete, may be found in mice 

 killed from 11 to 18 hours after inoculation. 



(13) Finally, in the 18-hour stages, macrogametes may be found 

 which in some cases show minute, thread-like bodies upon their 

 surfaces, and in others contain within their substances small solid 

 chromatic bodies, one in each case. These appearances are regarded 

 as warranting the interpretation that fertilization takes place. 



Explanation of Plates I, II, III, IV, V. 



The original figures wore made by the author and later copied in ink by Mr. 

 Haines, artist of the Bureau of Animal Industry. The greater number are 

 from camera outlines, made on the table with a 2 mm. apoehromatic objective 

 and Xo. 18 eyepiece. This method yields a magnification of about 3,530 diame- 

 ters. The remaining drawings are free-hand sketches of approximately the same 

 enlargement. In reproduction, the drawings have been reduced in the ratio 

 of 3 to 2, and hence are about 2,350 times larger than the objects themselves. 



In order to show the relationships between the parasites and the cells, the 

 latter have in some cases been drawn in outline. It was not, however, considered 

 necessary to do this throughout. 



Plate I. — Fig. 1. — Camera outline. Giemsa stain. Spores taken directly from 

 a cyst. The cytoplasm stains a dense blue; the nucleus is a reddish vesicle 

 with little or no internal structure. The spores are broader at one end 

 than the other. 



Fig. 2. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Spore free in lumen. Cell outlines clear cut; a periplast present; 

 cytoplasm shows no signs of degeneracy. The nucleus shows a nuclear 

 net and is somewhat enlarged, causing the cell edges to bulge. 



Fig. 3. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 251, 1§ hours, 

 int. 9. Cytoplasm slightly degenerate, but staining deeply. Nucleus 

 enlarged, about to cause bulging of the sides of the cell and showing a central 

 mass joined to the nuclear membrane with strands. 



Fig. 4. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 251, 1J hours, 

 int. 9. Cytoplasm dense and staining deeply. Nucleus enlarged, with 

 the central mass separated into granules. 



Fig. 5. — Camera outline. Delafield. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 27. Cytoplasm 

 dense with occasional clear spaces. Nucleus not enlarged. Chromatin in 

 the form of small granules distributed throughout the net. 



Fig. 6. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Cytoplasm very solid, staining deeply with the thionin and showing 

 no signs of degeneracy. Nucleus is a vacuole which stains more or less 

 homogeneously, apparently due to the fact that the nuclear sap has stained 

 as well as the nuclear net and thus the latter is obscured. This is a frequent 

 appearance, especially in parasites free in the lumen. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Fig. 7.— Camera outline. Delafield. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 15. Typical 

 early male form. Nucleus greatly enlarged; cytoplasm reduced to two 

 separate masses, one at each end of the parasite. Nuclear net distinct. 



Fig. 8. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Early male stage. Cytoplasm beginning to show irregular out- 

 lines and to become vacuolated. Nucleus not greatly enlarged, but otherwise 

 typical. 



Fig. 9. — Camera out line. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage. Shows very clearly the degeneration of the cytoplasm, 

 evidenced by the rough outlines and vacuolization. Nucleus enlarged, with 

 a distinct nuclear net. 



Fig. 10.— Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage. Cytoplasm degenerate. Nucleus elongated transversely, 

 a frequent appearance in the early stages. Nuclear net showing a single 

 large central mass, in which is a vacuity. 



Fig. 11. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, 

 int. 30. Early stage of male. Cytoplasm reduced in amount and degenerate 

 in appearance. Nucleus greatly enlarged with a central aggregation differen- 

 tiated into an acidophil mass beset with basophil granules. 



Fig. 12. — Free-hand drawing. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male. Shows a method of degeneration of the cytoplasm frequently 

 observed. The cytoplasm consists of a number of basophil masses lying 

 in a faintly staining matrix. The nucleus was typical. 



Fig. 13. — Free-hand drawing. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage. Shows mode of degeneration of cytoplasm, which at one 

 end of the parasite is broken up into a mass of basophil lumps, apparently 

 lying free in the host tissue. The nucleus was typical. 



Fig. 14. — Camera outline. Thionin and eosin. Mouse 248, 2 hours, int. 30. 

 Early male stage, probably slightly earlier than the form shown in fig. 13. 

 The cytoplasm has separated into a number of denser masses, taking the 

 thionin, which lie in an almost achromatic ground substance. The nucleus 

 is typical. 



Fig. 15. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 125, 2 to 2§ hours. Early 

 male stage, showing nuclear enlargement. 



Fig. 16. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 125, 2 to 2\ hours. 

 Early male stage. 



Plate II. — Fig. 17. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 125, 



2 to 2\ hours. Early male stage. Cytoplasm greatly reduced and degener- 

 ate. Nucleus much enlarged with a very distinct nuclear net. 



Fig. 18. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hours, 

 int. 22. Two early males, both lying in the same vacuole. In both the 

 nuclei are enlarged, and although the cytoplasm is reduced, it still retains 

 its smooth outlines and is not vacuolated. Nuclei typical. 



Fig. 19. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hours, 

 int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm reduced to a small cap at either end of the 

 parasite. Nucleus greatly enlarged and showing the usual structure. 



P'ig. 20. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 



3 hours, int. 30. Early male stage. Cytoplasm somewhat reduced in quan- 

 tity and showing signs of degeneration. Nucleus shows a net of the usual 

 character and is provided with one large conspicuous granule. This kind 

 of granule appears to require iron hsematoxylin for its demonstration. The 

 parasite lies in a partly emptied mucous cell. 



Fig. 21. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 

 3 hours, int. 30. Possibly an early female stage. Cytoplasm dense; 

 nucleus clear cut with a central mass and three black granules on periphery. 



Fig. 22. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 249, 3 hours, 

 int. 22. Probably an early female stage. Cytoplasm sharply delimited 

 and dense. Nucleus enlarged, but not sufficiently so as to cause bulging of 

 the cell boundaries. Within the nucleus is a round red body from which 

 blue rays extend to the nuclear membrane. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Fig. 23. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse L26, 3 to '-<\ hours. Early 

 male form. The cytoplasm has nearly disappeared. The nucleus is typical. 



Fig. 24. — Camera outline. Mouse L26, 3 to 3^ hours. Early male stage. 

 Cytoplasm greatly reduced. Nucleus very large with a well-developed 



nuclear iii -I , 

 Fig. 2"). — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin. Mouse 261, I hours/ int. —'■'>. 



Early stage of doubtful sex. Cytoplasm sharply delimited and dense. 

 Nuclear net obscured. A large black granule present. 



Fig. 26. Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin . Mouse 2fd , 4 hours, int. —3. 

 Parasite lies in what seems to be a mucous cell. Cytoplasm dense and 

 nearly homogeneous. Nucleus clear cut, showing a sharply marked karyo- 

 some and two conspicuous black granules. This parasite might be either 

 a male or a female. 



Fig. 27. — Camera outline. Thionin. Mouse 261, -4 hours, int. —3. Early male 

 stage. Consists of an enlarged nucleus surrounded by a narrow strip of 

 cytoplasm, with a quantity of degenerate material lying on one side. The 

 parasite is probably cut obliquely. The nuclear net is well developed. 



Fig. 28. — Free-hand drawing. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 247, 4 hours, 

 int. 14. Early female stage. Cell outlines smooth and cytoplasm appar- 

 ently not degenerate. Nucleus rather small with a clear-cut membrane 

 and a central karyosome. 



Fig. 29. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 247, 



4 hours, int. 14. Early female stage. Cell boundaries sharp. The 

 cytoplasm is neither degenerate nor has it suffered any loss in quantity. 

 The nucleus does not cause any protrusion of the sides of the cell. A large, 

 distinct karyosome is present. Figure diagrammatic. 



Fig. 30. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 247, 4 hours, 

 int. 19. Form difficult to classify. The cytoplasm shows a distinct external 

 boundary and, while vacuolated, is apparently not degenerate. Nucleus 

 is a vesicle with a very large central mass. 



Fig. 31. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 



5 hours, int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm has disappeared, except for a cres- 

 centic mass at one end. The nucleus is greatly enlarged and shows a well- 

 developed net. The net itself is acidophil, the granules associated with it 

 are basophil. 



Fig. 32. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 

 5 hours, int. 22. Male. Cytoplasm has apparently wholly disappeared. 

 The nucleus is very large and shows an acidophil net beset with a number 

 of sharply basophil granules. 



Fig. 33. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 



5 hours, int. 22. Female. Cytoplasm dense and, while vacuolated, shows 

 no signs of degeneration. Nucleus a vesicle with a large karyosome and 

 two intensely black granules. Strands joining the karyosome with the 

 nuclear membrane could not be made out. 



Fig. 34. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 250, 

 4 hours, int. 22. Female. Cytoplasm shows no signs of degeneracy. It 

 consists of a lighter ground substance in which are a number of poorly 

 defined darker bodies. Nucleus a vesicle in which is a large karyosome. 

 Little strands extend out from the karyosome, but they could not be traced 

 the whole distance to the nuclear membrane. Two black granules present. 



Fig. 35. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 253, 6 hours, 

 int. 19. Female. In this figure an attempt is made to indicate the alveolar 

 character of the cytoplasm of the females. Nucleus a vesicle containing a 

 large karyosome. 



Fig. 36. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 253, 6 hours, 

 int. 19. Female. Cytoplasm rather dense, but liberally vacuolated. 

 Nucleus a vesicle with a large karyosome. 



Plate III. — Fig. 37. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 253, 



6 hours, int. 19. The figure shows two females which have invaded the 

 same cell and developed side by side. 



1 See the annotation with regard to mouse 261, on p. 19. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Fig. 38. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 253, 6 hours, 



int. 16. Male. Parasite reduced to its nucleus which shows the nuclear 



net and a large central mass of chromatin. 

 Fig. 39. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 99, 



3 and 6 hours. Male. The parasite, reduced to the nucleus, shows a 



well-developed nuclear net and a basophil karyosome nearly cut into two 



by a cleft,. 

 Fig. 40. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. Parasite reduced to its nucleus, which shows the typical 



net and a large central aggregation in which are five basophil granules. 

 Fig. 41. — Camera outline. Delafield and eosin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. Typical 



male parasite. 

 Fig. 42. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. 



The figure shows two male parasites lying in adjacent cells of the mouse, 



and it is instructive in that a marked contrast in staining reaction is to be 



seen, the upper cell being acidophil, the lower basophil. 

 Fig. 43. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 99, 



3 and 6 hours. Male, doubtless belonging to the 6-hour period. The 



nuclear net is in the main acidophil, but a portion of it has taken on a sharply 



basophil staining reaction. 

 Fig. 44. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. Shows a typical nuclear net, a large acidophil karyosome 



and a number of basophil granules. 

 Fig. 45. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. The nuclear material is partly acidophil, partly basophil. 

 Fig. 46.— Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. The chromatin is basophil and finely divided. 

 Fig. 47. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. The chromatin is basophil, and occurs as minute granules, 



except for the cluster of larger granules which is presumably derived from 



the karyosome. 

 Fig. 48. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Male. The chromatin is partly acidophil, partly basophil. 



Fig. 49. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. The chromatin is basophil and in a state of fine subdivision, 

 except for the central mass which is probably derived from the karyosome. 



Fig. 50. — Camera outline. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. 

 Male. The parasite shows a delicate net provided here and there with 

 basophil granules. 



Fig. 51. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. Male. The parasite shows a delicate net provided with minute 

 chromatin granules. 



Fig. 52. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120> 

 IO5 and 17 hours. Male. The chromatin is extremely basophil and the 

 bulk of it is concentrated into round balls. It is impossible to say to which 

 of the two infective feeds this parasite belongs. 



Fig. 53. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 10J 

 and 17 hours. Shows two male parasites lying side by side. Instructive on 

 account of the marked difference in staining reaction. 



Plate IV. — Fig. 54. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. 

 Mouse 120, 10§ and 17 hours. Male. The central aggregation consists of 

 sharply basophil substance between which is acidophil material. In the 

 former rounded granules can be distinguished. This central mass is throwing 

 out extensions into the balance of the nucleus where there are aggregates 

 composed partly of sharply black granules and partly of acidophil material. 



Fig. 55. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 

 IO5 and 17 hours. Male. The chromatin is black in the iron hematoxylin 

 and occurs as minute granules. The general mass is showing a tendency 

 both to form small clusters and to assemble upon the periphery. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Fig. 56.— Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 

 lo' and 17 liours. Male. The chromatin occur- as small granules which 

 appear to be migrating toward the periphery. 



Fig. . r )7. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 146, 111 liours. Male. 

 There is a large, irregular mass consisting of acidophil material which is 

 liberally provided with puhctiform basophil granules, ami. in addition, a 

 number of sharply staining elongated granules. It is difficull to determine 



just where in the development of the male parasite a form like this belongs. 



Fig. 58. Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. 



Male. The chromatin is in the form of minute basophil granules. There 



is a large irregular mass of these, and three rounded clusters near the 



periphery. 



Fig. 59. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. Male. The chromatin is aggregated into clusters of 6ne granules, 

 all of which are sharply basophil. Some of these clusters are wholly independ- 

 ent of one another; others are still united by strips of acidophil substance. 



Fig. til). -Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 179, 

 16j hours, int. —1. Male. The chromatin occurs as minute basophil granules, 

 either scattered or aggregated into clusters. A marked tendency toward 

 the assumption of a peripheral situation is to be noted. The remnant of 

 the linin network is omitted in the drawing. 



Fig. 61. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 179, 

 lti'. hours, int. —1. The chromatin is in the form of minute basophil granules 

 which occur in clusters, most of which are peripheral. The remnant of 

 the linin network is omitted from the drawing. 



Fig. 62. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 179, 

 I65 hours, int. —1. Male. This figure portrays much the same conditions 

 as are shown in fig. 61, but only an optical section of the parasite is shown. 

 The granular clusters are thus seen to be exclusively peripheral. 



Fig. 63. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 10t and 



17 hours. Form supposed to be a male. 



Fig. 64. — Free-hand sketch. Iron ha'matoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 

 IO5 and 17 hours. Supposed male. 



Fig. 65. — Camera outline. Iron haematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. Male. The chromatin occurs as clusters of minute granules. 



Fig. 66. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, IS hours. 

 Male. Optical section. The chromatin is in the form of minute, intensely 

 basophil granules, aggregated in clusters that are arranged in a regular man- 

 ner around the periphery. 



P'ig. 67. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, IS hours, 

 int. —2. Male. Optical section. The granular clusters, the forerunners of 

 the microgametes, are seen to be arranged in a regular manner around the 

 periphery. They are slightly more compact than in fig. 66. 



Fig. 68. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, IS hours, 

 int. —2. Optical section. The clusters are becoming more and more solid. 



Fig. 69. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. The microgamete nuclei have still further solidified. It is worthy 

 of note that fig. 69, from a 9-hour mouse, represents later conditions than 

 fig. 68, an 18-hour stage. 



Fig. 70. — Camera outline. Iron haematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 

 9 hours. Optical section. The microgamete nuclei have become round 

 solid balls. 



Fig. 71. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 100, 

 9 hours. Male. Condition intermediate between those shown in figs. 09 

 and 70. 



Plate V. — Fig. 72. — Camera outline. Wright's stain anil eosin. Mouse 152, 



18 hours, int. —2. Male. The solid nuclei are elongating to form the micro- 

 gametes. 



Fig. 73. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, IS hours, 

 int. —2. The elongation continues. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Fig. 74. — Camera outline. Iron hematoxylin and eosin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. 



Male. Stage showing microgametes. The parasite is unusually small. 



This stage is very rare in periods as short as 9 hours. 

 Fig. 75. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 152, 18 hours. Male. 



Stage showing microgametes. 

 Fig. 76. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, int. —1. 



Optical section of the same stage of development as shown in fig. 75. 

 Fig. 77. — Free-hand sketch. Thionin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 247, 4 hours, 



int. 14. Female, typical early stage. 

 Fig. 78. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Female. Cytoplasm mottled. Karyosome shows several black 



granules. This is possibly a very early stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 79. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin. Mouse 113, 9 hours. Typical 



female. 

 Fig. 80. — Free-hand sketch. Iron hsematoxylin. Mouse 113, 9 hours. Female. 

 Fig. 81. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Female. Cytoplasm shows the alveolar structure which can 



frequently be made out in the females. Nucleus shows a ring of deeply 



staining granules lying around the membrane. These are taken to represent 



that part of the chromatin which is rejected during maturation. 

 Pig. 82. — Camera outline. Delafield and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 9 hours. 



Female, same phase as shown in fig. 83. The granules lying in the mouse 



cell are not believed to have anything to do with the parasite. 

 Fig. 83. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 106, 



9 hours. Female. Later stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 84. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 145, 



11 j hours, int. — 1. Female. Late stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 85. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 146, 11? hours, int. — 1. 



Female. Late stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 86. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 



10! and 17 hours. Female, late stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 87. — Camera outline. Wright's stain. Mouse 146, 11! hours, int. — 1. 



Female, late stage of maturation. 

 Fig. 88. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 



int. —2. Mature female or macrogamete. 

 Fig. 89. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 120, 



10| and 17 hours. Macrogamete. 

 Fig. 90. — Camera outline. Iron hsematoxylin and acid fuchsin. Mouse 145, 



Hi hours, int. — 1. Macrogamete. 

 Fig. 91. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 



int. —2. Macrogamete. 

 Fig. 92. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 



int. —2. Two microgametes are seeking to fertilize a macrogamete. 

 Fig. 93. — Camera outline. Wright's stain and eosin. Mouse 152, 18 hours, 



int. —2. Three mae.rogamet.es are shown, in each of which is a conspicuous 



chromatic element, taken to be the microgamete. 



Bibliography. 



Crawley, Howard. 1913. Initial stages of Sarcocystis infection. [Note 



presented before Helminthol. Soc. Wash., D. C, Feb. 6.] <Science, N. Y., 



n. s. (952), v. 37, Mar. 28, p. 498. 

 - 1914. Two new Sarcosporidia. <Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., v. 66 (1), 



Jan.-Mar., pp. 214-218, 1 fig. 

 — 1914. The evolution of Sarcocystis muris in the intestinal cells of the mouse. 



(Preliminary note.) <Proc. Acad. Nat, Sc. Phila., v. 66 (2), Apr.-Aug., 



pp. 432-436, pi. 15, figs. 1-12. 

 Ekdmann, Hii. H)10. Die Entwicklung der Sarcocystis muris in der Musku- 



latur. <Sitzungsb. d. (lesellsch. naturf. Fr. zu Berl. (9), Nov., pp. 377-387," 



figs. A-E, pis. 18-19, figs. 1-14. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE I. 



CRAWLEY: SLXUAL INVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191H. 



PLATE II. 



21 



o 



! 



25 



20 



piuuiiiu 



22 



jUUiJUMJIlL 



y/i 



23 



24 



s 



27 



28 



' ■'/ 



29 



30 



31 



-y*^ 



32 



33 



34 



35 



/- 



36 



CRAWLEY: SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191C. 



PLATE III. 



CRAWLEY: SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE IV. 



CRAWLEY: SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 1916 



PLATE V. 



78 



79 



CRAWLEY: SEXUAL EVOLUTION OF SARCOCYSTIS. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



1914. Zu einigen strittigen Punkten der Sarkosporidienforschung. 



<Arch. de zool. exper. et gen., Par., v. 53 (9), juin, pp. 579 596, pis, 17 is, 



figs. 1-10. 

 Fantham, 11. B. 1913. Sarcoci/xtis colii, n. sp., a sarcosporidian occurring in 



the red-faced African mouse bird, Colius erythromelon. <Proc. Cambridge 



[Eng.j Phil. Soc, v. 17 (3), Sept. s, pp. 221-221. pi. 5. 

 Labbe, Ai.imionsi-:. 1899. Sporozoa. 8°. Berlin. (Das Tierreich, Berl., .">. 



Lief., xx + 180 pp., 190 figs.) 

 MiNCHIN, K. A. 1912. An introduction to the study of the Protozoa, with 



special reference to the parasitic forms. xi + 517pp., I94figs. 8°. London. 

 Schaudinn, Fritz. 1900. Untersuchungen iiber den Generationswechsel bei 



Coecidien. <Zool. Jahrb., Jena, Abt. f. Anat., v. 13 (2), 22. Jan., pp. 



197-292, pis. 13-16, figs. 1-108. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF^THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



February 15. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Fifty-nine persons present. 



The Chair announced the deaths of Joseph R. Rhoads, March 7, 

 1915, and of Lincoln Godfrey, February 8, 1916, members. 



The Publication Committee reported the presentation of papers 

 under the following titles as contributions to the Proceedings: 



"Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho," by Junius Henderson 

 and L. E. Daniels (January 19). 



"Notes on the anatomy of Oreohelix, with a catalogue of species," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry (January 19). 



Witmer Stone, Sc.D., made an illustrated communication on 

 western birds and their haunts, being wayside observations on a 

 journey across the continent. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT) 



cephalopoda of the kermadec islands. 



by s. stillman berry. 



Introduction. 



The Kermadec Islands comprise a small archipelago of volcanic 

 origin, situated in the South Pacific Ocean northeast of New Zealand, 

 to which politically they belong. Being off the beaten path of 

 commerce, they have been rarely visited, and it is only very recently, 

 through the activity of various antipodean investigators, that we arc 

 beginning to gain any extended knowledge of their fauna. 



So far as cephalopods are concerned, the only species of the fauna 

 known until the last year or two are the three octopods which the 

 Challenger dredged from very deep water in the neighborhood in 

 1874, and which were therefore reported upon by Hoyle in 1885- '86. 



In the spring of 1913 the present writer received from Mr. W. R. B. 

 Oliver, of Auckland, a small, but what proved to be a very well- 

 worth-while collection of cephalopods taken on Sunday Island, the 

 most important member of the group, by Mr. Oliver himself, Mr. Tom 

 Iredale, and Mr. R. S. Bell, in 1908 and 1910. At the request of the 

 sender this collection was "worked up" and reported upon in the 

 Transactions of the New Zealand Institute for June, 1914, but owing 

 to certain exigencies of preparing and publishing the paper, it proved 

 impossible to provide illustrations adequate to the material described. 



Some months later and too late to be reported upon simultaneously 

 with the earlier specimens, Mr. Oliver forwarded me another small 

 vial of cephalopods, collected as were some of the most unusual 

 species in the first lot, by Mr. R. S. Bell, in 1910. Being exceedingly 

 anxious to secure additional material of the practically unique 

 Nematolampas regalis and Abraliopsis astrolineata for further investi- 

 gation, I overhauled the new specimens with eagerness. Though in 

 this particular my quest was not fulfilled, the disappointment was 

 more than tempered by finding two species of genera not represented 

 in the first collection. In fact, the collections supplement one another 

 in such an interesting way that a report upon the second necessarily 

 involves a greater or less consideration of the first. The present 

 paper, therefore, is practically a monograph of the cephalopod fauna 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



of the Kermadec Islands as known to date. I have so indicated in 

 the title. At the same time the opportunity appears propitious for 

 publishing a few sketches and other illustrations additional to those 

 given in my earlier paper, and I trust the delay has not robbed 

 them of value. 



The new material reported comprises thirteen specimens, which I 

 find to be referable to seven species and the same number of genera 

 and families, as follows: 



1 Argonauta species (young). 



2 Polypus species (young). 



1 Onychoteuthis banksii (Leach) (young). 



1 Lampadioteuthis megaleia new genus and species. 



1 Abraliopsis ? (young). 



6 Eucleoteuthis species (young). 



1 Megalocranchia pardus, new species. 



The two species thus added to the previous list appear to be new 

 to science. One of them is so divergent from anything we know 

 that it is being made the type of a new genus and family. It 

 is somewhat surprising to find this form similar in many superficial 

 peculiarities to the wonderful Nematolampas regalis previously 

 described from Mr. Oliver's material, and scarcely inferior in interest 

 to its predecessor, even though the actual relationship of the two 

 does not appear an especially close one. For further observations 

 on these species of a somewhat general interest, I would refer the 

 reader to the concluding remarks offered in connection with the 

 description of L. 'megaleia. 



Altogether the results of the exploration of the Sunday Island 

 beaches by Messrs. Oliver, Iredale, and Bell have been without 

 precedent, so far as the littoral capture of cephalopods is concerned, 

 and inevitably causes one to ponder what ultimate harvest this 

 wonderful region holds in store for the teuthologist, that a mere 

 glimpse of wave-bound wrack from a single beach should prove so 

 astonishing. 



A complete list of all the cephalopods thus far known from the 

 waters of the Kermadec Islands, with the number of specimens 

 reported on, is given in the following table: 



Synopsis of the Cephalopoda of the Kermadec Islands. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



17 



Tiie fauna outlined in the table may conveniently be summarized 

 as follows: 



Total 12 



15 



18 




48 proceedings of the academy of [feb., 



New Terms Proposed. 



The following taxonomic terms are used for the first time in the 

 present paper: 



Moschites challengeri, new name (for Eledone verrucosa Hoyle, 1886, 



in part, not of Verrill, 1881). 

 Lampadioteuihidm, new family. 

 Lampadioteuthis megaleia, new genus and species. 

 Eucleoteuthis, new genus (for Symplectoteuthis luminosa Sasaki, 1915). 

 Megalocranchia /tardus, new species. 

 Verrilliteuthis, new genus (for Desmoteuthis Verrill, December, 1881, 



in part, not of Verrill, February, 1881). 



Systematic Review of the Species. 

 Order DIBRANCHIATA. 



Suborder OCTOPODA. 



Family CIRROTEUTHIDiE. 



Genus STAUROTEUTHIS Verrill, 1879. 



1. Stauroteuthis meangensis (Hoyle, 1885). 



188"). Cirroteuthis meangensis Hovle, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), 15, 



].. 234. 

 188"). Cirroteuthis meangensis Hoyle, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 13, p. 111. 

 1880. Cirroteuthis meangensis Hoyle, Challenger Rep., p. 63, pi. 9, figs. 



12, 13: pi. 11, figs. 1.2; pi. 13, figs. 5, 6. 

 1904. Stauroteuthis meangensis Hoyle, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 43, p. 5. 



One young specimen was taken by the Challenger in 600 fathoms, 

 north of the Kermadec Islands. 



Family AMPHITRETID^E. 

 Genus AMPHITRETUS Hoyle, 1885. 



2. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, 1885. 



1885. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), 15, p. 235. 



1885. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Narrative Chall. Exp., 1, p. 271, fig. 106. 



1885. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb., 13, p. 113, fig. 



1886. Amphitretus pelagicus Hoyle, Challenger Rep., p. 67, pi. 9, figs. 7-9. 



The type locality of this species is 29° 55' S. Lat., 178° 14' W. 

 Long., off the Kermadec Islands. Here one specimen was dredged 

 by the Challenger in 520 fathoms. 



Family ARGONAUTID^]. 

 Genus ARGONAUTA Linne\ 1758. 



3. Argonauta argo I.irme. 1758. 



1758. Argonauta Argo Linne, Syst. Nat., ed. X, p. 70S. 



1010. Argonauta argo lredale, Proc. Malac. Soc, 9, pp. 70, 72. 



1915. Argonauta argo Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 47, p. 560. 



lredale and Oliver record a few shells of this species washed up on 

 the beaches of Sunday Island. Comparison should probably be 

 made with .1. pacifica Dall and A. grand if ormis Perry. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



4. Argonauta nodosa Solander, 17m; 



1.786. Argonauta nodosa Solandcr. Portland Cat., p. 96, No. 2120. 

 I'.Ui). Argonauta nodosa [redale, Proc. Malac. Soc, 9, pp. 70, 72, 

 L915. Argonauta nodosa Oliver, Trans. X. Z. Inst., 17, p. 560. 



Both [redale and Oliver state that animals and shells of this species 

 are occasionally washed to land at Sunday Esland. 



Argonauta species. PI. VI, fig. I. 



L914. Argonauta sp. Berry, Trans. X. Z. Inst, 46, p. 135. 



A very small female without a shell fS. S. B. 420] collected by 

 Bell in 1910 is presumably the same species as the specimens already 

 reported in the paper cited. A photograph of one of the former 

 specimens, showing the hectocotylus in situ within the mantle 

 cavity of the female, is now given as fig. 1 on Plate VI. 



Oliver (1915, p. 500) suggests that these specimens are to be 

 referred to .1. nodosa Solandcr. 



Family POLYPODIDiE. 

 Genus POLYPUS Schneider, 1784. 



5. Polypus oliveri Berry, 1914. PI. VI, fig. 2. 



1914. Polypus oliveri Berry, Trans. X. Z. Inst.. 40. p. 136. 



1915. Polypus oliveri Oliver, Trans. X. Z. Inst., 47, pp. 560, 564. 



As this species has not been figured, the matter is remedied by the 

 photograph reproduced in the accompanying plate. 



6. Polypus kermadecensis Berry, 1914. 



1914. Polypus kermadecensis Berry, Trans. X'. Z. Inst., 46, p. 138, pis. 7, 8. 



Polypus species (Young). 



Two very juvenile Polypi in the second collection cannot yet be 

 determined [S. S. B. 434]. 



Genus MOSCHITES Schneider, 17s4. 



7. Moschites challengeri new name. 



1SS6. EUxlone verrucosa Hovle, in part. Challenger "Rep., p. 104 (not of 

 Yen-ill. Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 8, p. 105). 



One specimen was dredged off the Kermadecs in 630 fathoms by 

 the Challenger, and reported by Hoyle as the Atlantic M. verrucosa 

 (Verrill). I have long felt grave doubt- as to the correctness of 

 Hoyle's determination. The Kermadec Islands and the eastern 

 coast of the United States are localities so extremely remote and 

 isolated from one another, that such an anomalous distribution for 

 a crawling, bottom-loving species of this sort seems " priori at leasl 

 doubtful. Fortunately we have Hoyle's express statemenl that the 



Challenger specimen "has the extremity of the hectocotylized arm 

 4 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



formed like that of an Octopus rather than like that of an Eledone, 

 as shown in Verrill's figure." In the light of our present knowledge 

 that even relatively slight differences in the structure of the hecto- 

 cotylus are important in distinguishing species, there is evidently 

 available here a sufficient diagnostic character to separate the two 

 forms. A new name therefore seems expedient for the Kermadec 

 species. 



Suborder DECAPODA. 

 Division MYOPSIDA. 

 Family SPIRULID^L 



Genus SPIRULA Lamarck, 1799. 



8. Spirula spirula (Linne, 1-758). 



1758. Nautilus spirula Linne, Syst. Nat., ed. X, p. 710. 

 1910. Spirula spirula Iredale, Proc. Malac. Soc, y, pp. 70, 72. 

 1915. Spirula spirula Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 47, .p. 558. 



Oliver states that dead shells are abundant on the Sunday Island 

 beaches, occasionally with portions of the. animal. 



Division (EGOPSIDA. 



Family ONYCHOTEUTHID^E. 



Genus ONYCHOTEUTHIS Lichtenstein, 1818. 



9. Onychoteuthis banksii (Leach, 1817). 



1817. Loligo Banskii Leach, Zool. Misc., 3, p. 141. 



1826. Onychoteuthis Banskii Ferussac, Annates Sci. Nat., (1), 7, p. 151. 



1914. Onychoteuthis banksii Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 46, p. 139. 



A young specimen of this species is in the present collection 

 [S. S. B. 422]. 



Family LYCOTEUTHIDiE. 



Genus NEMATOLAMPAS Berry, 1913. 



10. Nematolampas regalis Berry, 1913. PI. VII; PI. VIII. fig. 5. 



1913. Nematolampas regalis Berry, Biol. Bull., 25, p. 20S, text fig. 1. 



1914. Nematolampas regalis Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 46, p. 140, text tie's. 

 1-4, PL IX. 



Sketches are now given of one of the curious hood-shaped suckers 

 which appear along the distal regions of the arms, and also of a 

 portion of the gladius (figs. 1-3). 



The gladius of this species, as shown by a few fragments extracted 

 from the poorly preserved paratype (S. S. B. 410), is exceedingly 

 slender and consists of little but the narrow rhachis. The wings 

 are narrow and set very obliquely, so that the ventral concavity is 

 unusually narrow and deep. They finally terminate in a very 

 small, delicate, spoon-shaped cone, which is supported by a small, 




I'.Hii.l 



NATURAL S( IKN( KS OF l'HILADKLl'll I A. 



.51 



solid, distinctly bulbous swelling at the extreme base of the slender 

 rluichis (figs. 2, 3). 



Fig. 1. 



Fig. 2. 



Fig. 3. 



Fig. 1. — Nematolampas regalis, camera sketch of sucker from distal portion of 



right third arm [-409], from mount in balsam, X 70. 

 Fig. 2. — Nematolampas regalis, oblique ventral view of posterior extremity of 



gladius [410], camera drawing, X 20. 

 Fig. 3. — Oblique dorsal view of. same, same scale. 



Family LAMPADIOTEUTHID^ new family. 



Squids of small size, with terminal, sagittate fins. Arms with 

 two rows of suckers. Tentacle clubs with four rows of suckers. 

 No hooks present on either arms or tentacles. Buccal membrane 

 eight-pointed. Gladius with lateral wings, but no terminal cone. 

 Luminous organs present in the pallial chamber, on the eyeball, 

 along the stalk of the tentacles, and at the base of the tentacles. 



For the present the characters of the new family must be drawn 

 from those of the type genus alone, so no doubt important emenda- 

 tion must later take place. 



I would tentatively place the Lampadioteuthidce between the 

 Lycoteuthidce on the one hand and the Enoploteuthidce on the other. 

 The group cannot be referred to the Lycoteuthidce on account of the 

 entirely different construction of the gladii. Some teuthologists 

 may prefer to place it with the Enoploteuthidce, but it seems to me 

 that the complete lack of hooks or modified suckers on either tenta- 

 cles or arms produces an anomaly fatal to this arrangement. Of 

 course a fuller knowledge of the anatomy of all these forms than is 

 now possible is as likely as not to bring about an entirely different 

 classification, but I think the one adopted is for the meanwhile the 

 most reasonable. 




52 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



Genus LAMPADIOTEUTHIS new genus. 



Body loliginiform. Fins broad, subsagittate, terminal; slightly 

 surpassing the body posteriorly. 



Arms with two rows of minute suckers, but no hooks. Tentacle 

 clubs not expanded; armed with four rows of smaM suckers. 



Buccal membrane eight-pointed, pale in color, but dotted with 

 numerous dark chromatophores between the trabecular. 



Photogenic organs richly developed; their distribution being as 

 follows: 1. One at the extreme base of each tentacle and four 

 along the stalk. 2. A longitudinal series of three large organs on 

 the ventral side of the eyeball (of which the median is notably the 



smallest) and a single similar organ on the 

 eyelid just back of the opening. 3. Five in- 

 trapallial organs, including 2 anal, 2 branchial 

 (very large), and 1 abdominal organ. No 

 luminous organs have been identified any- 

 where in the outer integument of the arms, 

 head, or mantle. 



Gladius comprising a rapidly tapering rha- 

 chis, free in front, but with delicate, somewhat 

 broadly angular wings along its posterior two- 

 thirds. 



Type. — The following species. 

 11. Lampadioteuthis megaleia new species. PI. VIII, figs. 1-4. 

 Animal small. Mantle firm, fleshy, cylindro- 

 conic in outline; in front rather flaring, 

 thence tapering quickly to a point. Fins 

 large and fairly thick in proportion to the 

 small size of the body; slightly more than 

 half as long as the mantle; each fin about a 

 fifth longer than wide; strongly united in the 

 median line posteriorly, where they extend 

 slightly past the tip of the mantle; triangular, 

 the posterior margins nearly straight and 

 converging to a very obtuse point; anterior 

 margins almost straight on the outward edges, 

 but somewhat squarely arcuate in front, and 

 thence descending toward the body so as to 

 form small lobes. 



Head large, almost as wide as the flaring 

 mantle opening, and wider than the body is 



Fig. 4. — Lampadioteu- 

 this megaleia, semi- 

 diagrammatic repre- 

 sentation of cut ire 

 animal from the ven- 

 tral aspect, to show 

 the distribution of 

 the photocgeni or- 

 gans, about natural 

 size. 




M»16.] 



NATURAL SCIK.WKS OF I'll 1 L ADELPHIA. 



53 



near the middle; strongly compressed; flattened above, somewhat de- 

 pressed below between the large, rounded eyes. Funnel broad, 

 rather flat and short, not extending to the middle of the eyes; valved, 

 the valve appearing as a very delicate, crescentic, pocket-like mem- 

 brane on the inner dorsal wall a little way behind the aperture. 

 Funnel organ not easily made out in the material available, although 

 the A-shaped median organ of the dorsal wall is evident (fig. 6). 



Funnel locking cartilage straight, simple, pointed anteriorly, but 

 rounded truncate at the other end, and otherwise of nearly even 

 width; grooves shallow, simple, straight; margins raised and reflexed 

 (fig. 7). Slender ridges on the mantle correspond as usual. 



Fig. 6. 



Fig. 7. 



Fig. 6. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, outline sketch of the funnel region [416], 

 X 2§; an., anus; phot., anal photophores; v., valve; v.o., median pad 

 of funnel organ. 



Fig. 7 .—Lampadioteuthis megaleia, camera outline of left funnel cartilage [416], 

 X 8. 



Sessile arms little attenuate, the longest over two-thirds as long as 

 the mantle; unequal; somewhat mutilated in the specimen at hand, 

 but the formula of relative length apparently 3 = 2, 4, 1; dorsal arms 

 notably shorter and less robust than the remainder. Outer margin 

 of ventral and third arms keeled, the second pair more obscurely so, 

 and the dorsal pair merely angled. On all the arms except the 

 dorsal pair the keel terminates in a very delicate, transparent carina 

 of membrane. The third arms in particular bear a strongly trabecu- 

 late hyaline membrane along their ventral margins, though all the 

 arms possess well-developed swimming membranes homologous with 

 these. Sucker-bearing portion of arms compressed; the suckers 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



in two rows, minute on all the arms, but excessively so on the ventral 

 pair. On a horny ring from one of the distal suckers of the left 

 third arm, I count seven teeth along the upper margin, the central 

 ones especially being long, slender, closely spaced, and rather bluntly 

 pointed. 



Tentacles cylindrical, over twice as long as the arms; robust at 

 base, thence tapering rapidly to the slender club, which is scarcely 

 or not at all expanded (PL VIII, fig. 3). Suckers of club in four much 

 compressed rows; minute; basin-shaped; the horny rings of the 

 largest armed with 9-13 slender acute teeth along the upper semi- 

 circumference (figs. 8, 9). 



Fig. 8. 



Fig. 9. 



Fig. 10. 



Fig. 8. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, oral view of a median sucker from the left 



tentacle club of the type [416], X 70, camera outline from a mount 



in balsam. 

 Fig. 9. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, nearly apical view of a similar sucker [4161, 



X 70, camera outline from a mount in balsam. 

 Fig. 10. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, optical section of second photophore from 



base of left tentacle of type [416], camera sketch from mount in 



balsam, X 15. 



Buccal membrane eight-pointed; the lappets light colored, but 

 the delicate intervening membranes dotted on the outside with dark, 

 wine-colored to brownish chromatophores. 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 11. 



Fig. 5. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, left eyeball, seen from below in outline, 



showing position of photophores, X 1§. 

 Fig. 11. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, basal photophore from left tentacle of type 



[416], seen in optical section, X 15, camera sketch from mount in balsam ; 



chr., chromatophores; phot., photogenic organ; st., stalk of same. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF I'll 1 1. \ D 1 ;i.l'l 1 1 A ." 



.i.i 



Subocular photophores large, circular in outline, whitish; four 



in number on each eye; three, of which the median is somewhat the 

 smallest, occupy the usual situs on the ventral periphery; the fourth 

 is larger than any of these, and situated just within the boundary 

 of the pupil, at a point almost exactly behind the centre of the lens 

 (fig.5). 



A series of four large ovoid photophores appears embedded in the 

 stalk of each tentacle below the club, the three proximal ones occupy- 

 ing the proximal half of the tentacle, the distal one somewhat isolated 

 from the others and near the club. At the extreme base of the 

 tentacle borne on a short stalk on its outer side appears a spherical 

 photophore, which is almost wholly concealed in preserved specimens 

 by the tentacular sheath. It is distinctly larger than even the most 

 proximal of the organs just described, and judging from its outward 

 appearance only I think it will prove to be entirely different in 

 structure text fig. 11 (PI. VIII, fig. 4). 



V 



Fig. 12. 



Fig. 13. 



Fig. 14. 



Fig. 12. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, camera drawing of gladius of type [416], 



dorsal aspect, x 3. 

 Fig. 13. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia, ventral view of posterior extremity of 



gladius [416], X 18, camera sketch. 

 Fig. 14. — Dorsal view of same, same scale. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



In addition to the above are the following intrapallial luminous 

 organs: 1. A roundish, swollen, brownish organ on each side of 

 the cavity, a little behind the anus. 2. A very large, elongate- 

 pyriform, bright, silvery organ at the base of each gill, near the 

 middle of the cavity. 3. A bright silvery tubercle, larger than the 

 anal organs, but very much smaller than the branchial, situated 

 behind the viscera in the medio-ventral line nearly at the tip of the 

 body (fig. 4). 



Gladius of simple Enoploteuthid structure, the rhachis free in 

 front and broadest at the apex; thence tapering quite rapidly to a 

 narrow point; wings thin and delicate, sharply angled in front of 

 their middle, where each is about three times as wide as is the stem 

 at the same level; they extend along the posterior two-thirds of the 

 gladius, terminating around the point of the rhachis to form a slight 

 posterior concavity, which is hardly spoon shaped, and is certainly 

 not to be called a cone (figs. 12-14). 



Color in alcohol: mantle brownish white, dotted with pale chro- 

 matophores; head and ventral aspect of the funnel darker, due to 

 the more numerous dark chromatophores; eyes dark slate color, 

 the lenses pearly white; arms and tentacles pale like the mantle. 



Type. — A rather poorly preserved female (?) [S. S. B. 416]. It 

 is minus one tentacle, and a little macerated, but is in good enough 

 condition to be described as above. 



Type Locality. — A beach on Sunday Island, where the single 

 specimen was picked up by Mr. R. S. Bell in 1910. 



Measurements. 



mm. 



Total length 85 



Length of mantle, dorsal 30 



Tip of body to base of dorsal arms 39 



Length of fins, extreme 17 



Width of fin 14 



Width across fins 30 



Anterior width of mantle 15 



Width of neck 7 



Width across eyes 14 



Length of head 10 



Length of funnel 9 



Length of right dorsal arm 17 



Length of left dorsal arm 15 + 



Length of right second arm 13 + 



Length of left second arm 20 + 



Length of right third arm 16 + 



Length of left third arm 21 + 



Length of right ventral arm 22 



Length of left ventral arm 22 



Length of right tentacle 24 + 



Length of left tentacle 47 



Length of club of left tentacle i 7 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



Remarks. — In spite of its wholly dissimilar gladius, this Little 



species reminds one more strongly of the two Lycoteuthid genera, 



Lycoteuthis and Nematolampas, than any other group, and this is 



probably due to the one fact, more than any other, thai the photo- 



genic complexes are so strikingly similar. That of the L. megaleia 



is accordingly summed up in the accompanying table, which also 



repeats the figures for L. diadema and N. regalis given in my earlier 



paper. 



L. 

 Position of Photophores. diadema. 



< »m ryes: 



Ventral periphery 10 



Lateral 



( )n arms: 



Tips of dorsal arms 



Tips of dorso-lateral arms 



Ventrolateral arms 



( hi tentacles: 



At base 



Along the stalk i 



Within pallia! chamber: 



Anal 2 



Branchial 2 



Abdominal 1 4 



Posterior extremity of body 



Total 22 90+ 23 



Although in each of the three species subocular, tentacular, and 

 intrapallial organs are well developed, the table helps to emphasize 

 differences which may be more important than the similarities. 

 Then again, although I have not yet had opportunity to work out 

 the histology of any of these structures in Lampadioteuthis, the 

 external appearance of its tentacular photophores is not at all like 

 the deep-seated organs of the Lycoteuthids, while the curious organs 

 protruding from the base of the tentacles fail to resemble anything 

 known to me. The single pair of enormous silvery photophores at 

 the base of the gills is also distinctive as contrasted with the belt of 

 five smaller organs possessed by the Lycoteuthid genera. 



The occasion is very tempting to add a little generalizing on the 

 possible significance of such striking differences in the luminous 

 pattern of cephalopods, especially since the constituent organs are 

 so evidently polyphyletic in origin, but this had best be reserved 

 for some future opportunity. 



1 I have followed prevailing usage in classifying the series of three organs 

 situated between the branchial pair in Lycoteuthis and Nematolampas as abdomi- 

 nal, though it seems to me more rational to consider them in relation with the 

 branchial organs than with the isolated posterior organ. 




58 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



At any rate it is remarkable that the Sunday Island beaches 

 should yield so extensive a series of bizarre types, and that with 



the exception of an ommastre- 

 phid every squid collected 

 there is the possessor of sys- 

 tems of dermal organs which 

 we must assume are photo- 

 genic. 



%> 



Fig. 16. — Abralia 

 astrolineata, lat- 

 eral view of third 

 hook from base of 

 right t e n t a c 1 e 

 club [408], X 30, 

 camera drawing 

 from mount in 

 balsam. 



Fig. 15. — Abralia 

 astrolineata, inner 

 face of right ten- 

 tacle club of tvpe 

 [408], X 8, mainly 

 a camera draw- 

 ing. 



Family ENOPLOTEUTHIDiE. 



Genus ABRALIA Gray, 1849. 

 12. Abralia astrolineata Berry, 1914. 



1914. Abralia astrolineata 

 Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 46, 

 p. 145, pi. 10. 



An illustration of the ten- 

 tacle club of this species is 

 supplied in fig. 15, and of a hook therefrom in fig. 

 16. 



The statement on p. 145 of the original de- 

 scription regarding the discrepancy in the num- 

 ber of hooks on the two tentacle clubs of the 

 type specimen is just reversed; the right club 

 shows a fifth hook, the left, only the four large 

 ones. 



Genus ABRALIOPSIS Joubin, 1896. 



13. I Abraliopsis hoylei (Pfeffer, 1884). Pi. IX, fig. l. 



?1884. EnophtevMs Hoylei Pfeffer, Ceph. Hamburg Mus., p. 17, fig. 22-22b. 

 ?1896. Abraliopsis Hoylei Joubin, Bull. Soc. Sci. Ouest, 5, p. 33, etc. 

 1914. 1 Abraliopsis hoylei Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst,, 46, p. 148. 



The specimen previously recorded [S. S. B. 400] is now figured 

 on PI. IX, fig. 1. 



Abraliopsis C?) species. PI. IX, fig. 3. 



A small abralioid in the second collection offers some interesting 

 peculiarities [S. S. B. 419], and I am not certain that it represents 

 the same species as the preceding, though this will quite likely prove 

 to be the case in the end. 



The only doubtful character is that each arm of the ventral pair 

 appears to terminate in a slender filament instead of the usual 

 beaded photophores, but these filaments are quite badly damaged 

 in the specimen so that their exact nature is difficult to make out. 

 The two rows of hooks on the ventral arms persist even onto the 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



4 



Fig. IS. Muni ii, p- 



sis (?), late r a I 

 V i e w of 1 a r g e 



hook from left 

 tent a c 1 e club 

 [419], X 30, cam- 

 era drawing from 

 mount in balsam. 



base of the filaments. Otherwise the specimen is a fairly typical 

 Abraliopsis. 



The tentacle club much resembles that of the preceding, as de- 

 scribed in my former paper. 

 There are four large slender 

 hooks in the ventral row, ami 

 three (or four?) small ones in 

 the dorsal row, the latter being 

 succeeded proximally by two 

 minute 1 suckers. The distal 

 portion of the club is occupied 

 by the usual four rows of small 

 suckers. I can make out only 

 two suckers in the fixing ap- 

 paratus (figs. 17, 18). 



The photogenic organs of the mantle are dis- 

 tributed longitudinally in bands and lines. There 

 is a conspicuous, clearly defined space free of 

 photophores along the medio-ventral line. Bound- 

 ing this on either side is a roughly triserial, 

 band-like aggregation of photogenic organs, the 

 central members of which tend to be larger 

 than the lateral ones. This band is succeeded 

 laterally by a single series of large and small 

 photophores, more or less in alternation. A 

 weak series of small organs is then followed by 

 a very distinct single line of photophores, beyond 

 which the organs are scattering and less regular. 

 There are eight rows on the ventral aspect of 

 the head, and the rudiments of perhaps as many 

 on the funnel. Each central arm bears two rows. 

 The two terminal photophores of the subocular group are con- 

 spicuously larger than the three median ones, and of the latter the 

 central organ is in its turn a little the largest. 



Fig. 17. — Abraliop- 

 sis (?), inner face 

 of righl tentacle 

 club of young 

 specimen [-419], 

 X 15, free-hand 

 sketch from 

 mount in balsam. 

 The arrangement 

 and number of 

 the distal suckers 

 is only approxi- 

 mated. 



Family OMMASTREPHID^E. 

 Genus STHENOTEUTHIS Verrill, 1880. 

 14. Sthenoteuthis bartramii (Lesueur, 1821). 



1X21. Loligo bartramii Lesueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2, p. 90, pi. 7 

 lssii. Sthenoteuthis Bartramii Verriil, Trans. Conn. Acad. Sci.j •">, p. 223. 

 1914. Sthenoteuthis bartramii Berry, Trans. X. Z. Inst.. 46, p. 148. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Genus SYMPLECTOTEUTHIS Pfeffer, 1900. 

 [Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis (Lesson, 1830).] 

 1830. Loligo oualaniensis Lesson, Zool. Voy. Coquille, p. 240, pi. 1, fig. 2. 

 1900. Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Pfeffer, Synops. (Egops. Ceph., p. 180. 



It now appears that my reference of certain of the Kermadec 

 squids to this species was premature (see further note below), despite 

 the fact that the islands lie well within its probable range. 



Genus EUCLEOTEUTHIS new genus.2 

 15. Eucleoteuthis species (young ?). 



1914. Symplectoteuthis oualaniensis Berry, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 46, p. 148 

 (not Loligo oualaniensis Lesson, 1830). 



With the exception of the smallest, which may prove to be a 

 genuine Symplectoteuthis, six quite small and rather poorly preserved 

 Ommastrephids in the second collection sent me [S. S. B. 421] are 

 apparently referable here. A reexamination of the similar specimens 

 previously reported as S. oualaniensis, in the light of Sasaki's recent 

 work (see appended footnote), shows that these likewise should be 

 included in the newer genus. On all, with the single exception noted, 

 the supposed photogenic tissue is evident as a pair of narrow whitish 

 bands running along the ventral aspect of the body, much as in 

 E. luminosa, though apparently not interrupted as in that species. 

 In some of the specimens a pale oval macula may be made out near 

 the mantle margin and just outside the line of the bands, but in no 

 case have the maculae at the base of the ventral arms been identified. 

 Numerous other differences in the outline of the photogenic organs, 

 their distribution, the shape of the fins and body, and the proportions 



2 In a recent paper ("On three interesting new cegopsids from the Bay of 

 Sagami, " Jour. Coll. Agric, Tohoku Imper. Univ., Sapporo, v. 6, pp. 131-150, 

 pi. 4), Madoka Sasaki describes and beautifully illustrates a very remarkable 

 luminous squid from 700 fathoms, off Misaki, Japan, to which he attaches the 

 name Symplectoteuthis luminosa. The creature is absolutely unique among 

 described cephalopods in the fact that the principal photogenic organs, instead 

 of being small spherical or ovoid cysts as in most cegopsids, take the form of a 

 pair of narrow, zone-like bands, extending with but two interruptions along the 

 ventral aspect, of the mantle for nearly its entire length. A pair of smaller 

 maculse of similar character lie outside the terminal segments of the bands near 

 the anterior margin, and a larger, ovoid, transverse organ appears at the base 

 of each ventral arm. While the photogenic property of these curious structures 

 does not appear to have been observed in the living animal, Sasaki infers such a 

 function from their histology. It seems to me that these characters, coupled 

 with several minor features, among which may be noted the unidentate horny 

 rings of the larger tentacular suckers, are sufficient to quite preclude the proper 

 reference of this species to Symplectoteuthis, a genus not known to possess any 

 luminous properties, and in which the larger tentacular rings are multidentate. 

 Having conveyed these opinions to Prof. Sasaki and ascertained that he has no 

 present intention of altering his original disposition of the species, I now propose, 

 with his courteous permission, the new genus Eucleoteuthis, with S. luminosa, 

 Sasaki as type. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. til 



of the arms arc evident, so thai il seems possible thai an undescribed 

 species of the genus is before us. The largest of the specimens, 

 however, has a mantle length of only 41 mm., and since we know 

 nothing of the younger stages of E. liuninosa, while the condition of 

 our own material leaves much to be desired, a more detailed con- 

 sideration of the speciology will best be deferred for the present. 



Family CftANCHIID^E. 

 Genus MEGALOCRANCHIA Pfeffer, 1884. 

 16. Megalocranchia pardus new species. PI IX, fig. 2. 



Small: elongate cask-shaped. Mantle thin, smooth, saccular, 

 membranous, much inflated; its greatest circumference near the 

 middle, thence tapering slightly anteriorly and more so behind, 

 where it comes to an acute point between the fins; maximum width 

 of mantle distinctly less thai! half the length. Fins small, about 

 three-tenths as long as the body; thin; semicircular; barely con- 

 tinuous around the point of the mantle, which they exceed for about 

 a third of their length ; posterior cleft deep and very narrow. Anterior 

 margin of the mantle trilobate, being conspicuously indented (almost 

 cleft) in the dorso-median line, as well as to a less degree at either 

 side of the funnel, the clefts marking the three points where the 

 mantle is firmly attached to the head and funnel. 



Head very short and broad, the length contained in the width 

 (measured to include the eyes) nearly four times; width of head 

 between the eyes less than the depth of the eyeball. Eyes very 

 large and protruding; elevated on short, massive, slightly movable 

 stalks; eyeball ovate in outline, projecting obliquely downward; 

 lid opening of fair size, not puckered. The ventral surface of the 

 eyeball is occupied by a large, semicircular, photogenic organ, which 

 forms a bluntly conical projection toward one side; another smaller 

 organ of crescentic outline lies within the concavity of the latter 



(fig. 19). 



Funnel large, thin-walled; broad at base, extending well past the 

 base of the ventral arms, and entirely covering the ventral surface 

 of the head between the eyes; aperture ample. Funnel organ well 

 developed; the large hepatiform medio-dorsal organ bears on each 

 lobe a finger-like papilla, which bends inward at the base so that it 

 lies ahno-T transversely; the two -mailer lateral organs are roughly 

 circular, and each has a slight indentation on the front inner margin 

 (fig. 20 j. 



Arm- short, robust, the longest but little more than a quarter as 




62 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Feb., 



long as the mantle; unequal, the order of length distinctly 3, 4, 2, 1. 

 Umbrella wanting. Ventral arms with a frill-like keel on the outer 

 angle; keel of third arms confined to distal portion, and obscure or 



o 



Fig. 19. 



Fig. 20. 



Fig. 19. — Megalocranchia pardus, part camera outline of right eye of type [415], 



ventral aspect, X 5J; phot. 1 , phot. 2 , photogenic organs. 

 Fig.. 20. — Megalocranchia pardus, outline of funnel organ [415], much enlarged. 



wanting on the two dorsal pairs. All the arms have a delicate 

 trabeculate swimming membrane on either margin of the sucker- 

 bearing area, but this attains much its best development on the 

 third pair. Suckers biserial, closely placed in each row, but the 

 series slightly separated from one another on all but the ventral 

 arms, where they are relatively close together; number of suckers 

 varying from 14 pairs on one of the dorsal arms to 16| pairs on the 

 ventral arms. Sucker apertures wide, the horny rings weakly den- 

 tate on the upper semicircumference and with only rudiments of 

 teeth below; even at their best, the denticles appear rather as 

 strong crenulations than teeth; about 18 were counted on a ring 

 from one of the larger suckers of the right third arm (fig. 21). 



Tentacles short, stout, the longer about a third again as long as 

 the longest arms, or about two-fifths the length of the mantle; 

 larger and thicker than any of the arms. Clubs slightly expanded; 

 armed with four crowded rows of suckers, largest near the middle, 

 but diminishing in size both distally and proximally, where they 

 continue down the stalk a little more than half way to the base. 

 A horny ring from one of the largest suckers on the club shows about 

 26 conical, round-pointed, sometimes curved teeth, which are smallest 

 on the inferior margin (fig. 22). 



Color of preserved specimen brownish cream; chromatophores 

 brown; eyes bluish black; subocular photophores bronze, sur- 

 rounded by a bluish ring. Chromatophores large, scattered, elongate 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



63 



oval in outline, conspicuously spotting the entire mantle, though 

 somewhat paler ventrally than dorsally; an underlying bilateral 

 arrangement is evident, particularly in the case of the larger chro- 



Fig. 21. 



Fig. 22. 



Fig. 21. — Megalocranchia pardus, sucker from right third arm of type [41")], 



X 28, camera outline from mount in balsam. 

 Fig. 22. — Megalocranchia pardus, one of the larger suckers from the right tentacle 



club of the type [415], X 60, camera drawing from a mount in balsam. 



matophores ; there also seems to be a certain tendency to an arrange- 

 ment in zigzag lines in a transverse direction, most apparent on the 

 ventral aspect. There is a single series of chromatophores along 

 the medio-dorsal line, exactly overlying the gladius, which appears as 

 a translucent line beneath; 21 of the organs can be counted to the 

 point where the translucent area expands. 



Type. — The unique type [S. S. B. 415] is in an excellent state of 

 preservation. 



Type Locality. — A beach on Sunday Island, Kermadec Group 

 (R. S. Bell, 1910). 



Measurements. 



nun. 



Total length 75 



Length of mantle, dorsal 50 



Extreme length of fins 14 



Maximum width of mantle 22 



Width across fins 13 



Width across eyes 15 



Length of head 4 



Length of funnel '. 13 



Length of right dorsal arm 7 



Length of left dorsal arm 7.5 



Length of right second arm 9 



Length of left second arm 9 



Length of right third arm 13 



Length of left third arm 13 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



mm. 



Length of right ventral arm 10 



Length of left ventral arm 10 



Length of right tentacle 21 



Length of right tentacle club 5 



Length of left tentacle 16 



Length of left tentacle club 5 



Remarks. — The elucidation of the compact little group of squids, 

 of Avhich M. pardus is a typical example, has been for me one of the 

 most difficult taxonomic problems encountered in the study of the 

 cephalopoda. All the species are represented in collections by such 

 scanty material, are so similar to one another, and the characters 

 which separate them appear of such a trivial nature, that the de- 

 scribed forms are in sore need of careful checking up by someone 

 having access to the type specimens of the older species. At the 

 same time, the species are quite well set apart from other Cran- 

 chiids, so that a synopsis of the genus would include only the 

 following : 3 



1. Megalocranchia maxima Pfeffer 1884. 



2. Taonius abyssicola Goodrich 1896. 



3. Helicocranchia fisheri Berry 1909. 



4. Desmoteuthis pelludda Chun 1910. 



5. Megalocranchia pardus Berry 1915. 



The second of these is little known, is unique in several respects, 

 and may eventually prove to belong elsewhere. On the other hand, 

 the first, third, and fourth are apparently not strongly differentiated, 

 and it is with these that the present species requires special com- 

 parison to justify its separate recognition. The specimen most 

 certainly represents a species different from M. fisheri, the only 

 other Megalocranchia with which I have had opportunity for com- 

 paring it, but to Chun's pelludda it seems exceedingly close. The 

 description and figures of the latter are not now available to me, 

 but from my notes made therefrom a few years ago, I feel that the 

 differences, though so slight, are nevertheless too great for uniting 

 the species. In reaching this conclusion I place reliance upon the 

 almost stalked eyes of M. pardus, the immense development of the 

 funnel, and the denticulation of the horny rings. 



3 The species described as Desmoteuthis tenera Verrill {Trans. Conn. Acad. Sri., 

 5, p. 412) now seems to me to be improperly grouped with the cask-shaped, 

 round-finned forms cited above. As I have shown in a former paper (Science, 

 X. S., 36, pp. 643-646), the genus Desmoteuthis falls into the absolute synonymy 

 of Taonius, so can no longer be used here. I would therefore propose for the 

 reception of D. tenera the new genus Verrilliteuthis. To name the group for 

 the master of American teuthologists requires no excuse save posibly an 

 apology for the resulting barbarism. 




1910. J \ \TIRAL SClKNt KS OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



Order TETRABRANCHIATA. 

 Suborder NAUTILOIDEA. 



Family NAUTILID^. 



Genus NAUTILUS I.inne, 1758. 



IT. Nautilus pompilius Linn6, L758. 



L758. Nautilus Pompilius Linne, Syst. Nat., ed. X, No. 283, p. 709. 

 1910. \autilux pompilius [redale, Proc. Malac. Soc, ( .t, p. 72. 

 1915. Nautilus pompilius Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 17, p. 558. 



Oliver reports a broken shell washed up on the beach at Sunday 



Island. 



18. Nautilus macromphalus Sowerby, 1848. 



is is. Nautilus macromphalus Sowerby, Thes. Conch., p. 164, pi. 98, figs. 4, 5. 

 1910. Nautilus macromphalus [redale, Proc. Malac. Soc., 9, p. 72. 

 1915. Nautilus macromphalus Oliver, Trans. N. Z. Inst., 47, p. 558. 



Oliver reports a broken shell washed up on the beach at Sunday 

 Island. 



Bibliography of Kermadec Island Cephalopods. 



Berry, S. Stillman. 1913. Nematolampas, a remarkable new cephalopod 

 from the South Pacific. Biological Bulletin, Vol. 25, pp. 208-212, 1 text 

 fig., August, 1913. (Nematolampas regalis, new genus and species.) 



1914. Notes on a collection of cephalopods from the Kermadec Islands. 



Transactions New Zealand Institute, Vol. 46, pp. 134-149, text figs. 1-4, 

 pis. 7-10. June, 1914. (Gives notes on 9 species, including Polypus oliveri, 

 P. kermadecensis, and Abralia astrolineata, new species.) 



Hoyle, William E. 1885. Diagnoses of new species of Cephalopoda collected 

 during the cruise of H. M. S. "Challenger."— Part I. The Octopoda. 

 Annals and Magazine of Natural History (5), Vol. 15, pp. 222-236, March, 

 1885. (Antphitn his pelagicus, new genus and species.) 



1885a. Brief notice of the •'Challenger" Cephalopoda. Narrative 

 Challenger Expedition, Vol. 1, pp. 269-274, [1-7], figs. 106-109, 1885. (Figure 

 of A mphitrelus p< lagicus. ) 



1885b. Preliminary report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. 

 "Challenger." Part' I. The Octopoda. Proceedings Royal Society of 

 Edinburgh, Vol. 13, pp. 94-114, cuts, August, 1885. 



1886. Report on the Cephalopoda collected by H. M. S. "Challenger" 

 during the years 1873-1876. Voyage of the Challenger, Vol. 16, pp. i-vi, 

 1-246, 9 figs, in text, pis. 1-33, 1886. (Three species, Cirroteuthis mt angt nsis, 

 Amphitretus pelagicus, and Eledone verrucosa, reported from near the 

 Kermadecs.) 



[redale, Tom. 1910. On marine Mollusca from the Kermadec Islands and 

 on the Sinusigera apex. Proceedings Malacological Society, London. 

 Vol. 9, pp. 68-79, March 1910. (List reprinted in Proc. N. Z. [nst., 1910, 

 p. 57, f«l< Oliver: five species of shell-bearing cephalopods listed.. 



Oliver, W. R. B. 1911. Notes on reptiles and mammals in the Kermadec 

 [slands. Transactions New Zealand Institute, Vol. 43, 1910. pp. 535-539, 

 July, 1911. (Mentions a fragment of an undetermined giant squid c 

 up on the beach, p. 536. 



1915. The Mollusca of the Kermadec Islands. Transactions New 

 Zealand Institute, Vol. 47, pp. 509-568, pis. 9-12, July, 1915. Gives a 

 re'sume' of previous records, the cephalopods on pp. .V>s-560.) 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Feb., 



Explanation of Plates VI, VII, VIII, IX. 



Plate VI. — Fig. 1. — Argonauta species, female. Mantle laid open to show the 

 male hectocotylus in situ within the cavity [S. S. B. 403] (X 1\). 

 Fig. 2. — Polypus oliveri Berry, female. Dorsal aspect of type [S. S. B. 405], 

 about natural size. 



Plate VII. — Fig. 1. — Nematolampas regalis Berry. Distal portion of right 



third arm of type [S. S. B. 409], photographed by reflected light from a 



mount in balsam (X 2). 

 Fig. 2. — Nematolampas regalis. Proximal portion of same preparation 



(X 8J). 

 Fig. 3. — Nematolampas regalis. Median portion of the terminal filament 



of the right third arm (X 8|), photographed from the same preparation. 



Plate VIII. — Fig. 1. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia Berry. Dorsal aspect of type 



[S. S.B. 416] (X U). 

 Fig. 2. — Ventral aspect of same, same scale. 

 Fig. 3. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia. Tentacle club of type, from mount in 



balsam (X 7). 

 Fig. 4. — Lampadioteuthis megaleia. Base of tentacle from same preparation 



(X 7), showing the two basal photophores. 

 Fig. 5. — Nematolampas regalis Berry. Subocular photophores from right 



eye of paratype [S. S. B. 410] (X 7); photograph of inner surface from 



mount in balsam. 



Plate IX. — Fig. l.—Abraliopsis hoylei Pfeffer ?. Ventral aspect of immature 

 female [S. S. B. 400] (X 2). 



Fig. 2. — Megalocranchia pardus Berry. Ventral aspect of type [S. S. B. 415] 

 (X2). 



Fig. 3. — Abraliopsis (?), species. Ventral integument of very young speci- 

 men [S. S. B. 419], showing the distribution of the photogenic organs; 

 photographed by reflected light from a mount in balsam, stained with 

 Delafield's hematoxylin (X 6). 



Note. — I am indebted to my friends, Edward A. Cornwall and Leroy Childs, 

 for most of the photographs used in the accompanying plates. Thanks are like- 

 wise due to both Messrs. Iredale and Oliver for many incidental favors. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1910. 



PLATE VI. 



. 



BERRY: CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 19i<3. 



PLATE Vlt. 



e 



"i 



v 



s 



. 



1 





BERRY: CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS 





PPOC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHlLA. 19 Ki. 



PLATE VIII. 





1 



r 



g^ 



BERRY: CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE IX. 



• • • , 



............ 



. . . ? • • ki **•• v • 



• • * * •. • '\ • * 



, , ••• .•*•.-.• . 



# • • ; • • . * • 



'v. .> . • 



BERRY: CEPHALOPODA OF THE KERMADEC ISLANDS. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



March 21. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the chair. 



Seventy-eight persons present. 



The death of John Thomson, A.M., a member, February 23, 1916, 

 was announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers under 

 the following titles as contributions to the Proceedings: 



" The Germ Layers of Bdellodrilus," by George W. Tannreuther 



(February 23). 



'Some Bees from Australia, Tasmania, and the New Hebrides," 

 by T. D. A. Cockerell (March 6). 



"A New Species of Onchidiopsis from Bering Sea," by William 

 H. Dall (March 16). 



" Evidence of a Saturation Point in Evolution," by Walter Sonne- 

 berg (March 20) 



Dr. Edwin G. Conklin made an illustrated communication on 

 his impressions and experiences during a trip to New Zealand and 

 Australia. 



The following was ordered to be printed: 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



revision of cayuga lake spiders, 

 by nathan banks. 



In The Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia for 1892, pp. 11-81, 1 gave a list of spiders collected 

 in the vicinity of Ithaca, N. Y. It was the first important local 

 list published in this country. Twenty-five years have passed since 

 its preparation, and twenty-five years in any department of natural 

 history produces many changes. A number of the new species 

 have proved to be synonyms, a number have been redescribed by 

 others since, and many species have had either their generic or 

 specific name, or even both, changed since then. 



It is the purpose of this paper to briefly review these changes and 

 to give a few notes and figures of such forms as seem to have escaped 

 collection in recent years. 



The arrangement is the same as in the original work. Species not 

 mentioned are unchanged. 



DRASSID^E. 

 Micaria formicoides. 



This is a dark specimen of M. longipes, with the femora darker 

 than usual. 



Prosthesima rufula. 



Goes in Zelotes. 



Prosthesima frigida. 



Goes in genus Zelotes. 



Prosthesima immaculata = Zelotes rufula Bks. 

 Prosthesima blanda. 



Belongs to genus Zelotes. 

 Prosthesima atra. 



Belongs in Zelotes. 

 Prosthesima depressa. 



Belongs in Zelotes. 

 Prosthesima ecclesiastica. 



Belongs in Herpyllus. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 69 



Prosthesima minima = Zelotes blanda Bks. 

 An immature specimen. 



Poecilochroa bilineata. 



Belongs iii Cesonia. 



Gnaphosa brumahs. 



This is immature and evidently G. conspersa Thor. 



Gnaphosa humilis = Gnaphosa brumalis Thor. 



No1 quite mature. 



Drassus saccatus. 



Now known as D. neglectus Keys. 



Drassus humilis = D. neglectus Keys. 



CLUBIONID^E. 



Thargalia agilis = Castianeira cingulata Koch. 

 Thargalia perplexa = Castianeira longipalpis Htz. 

 Thargalia fallax = Castianeira descripta Htz. 

 Thargalia bivittata. 



Is known as Castianeira cingulata Koch. 



Thargalia crocata. 



Is Castianeira descripta; the true T. crocata is a southern form. 



Clubiona obesa. 



This is C. crassipalpis Keys., but I believe also Hentz's species. 



Clubiona crassipalpis. 



The female whose vulva is figured is C. canadensis Emer. 



Clubiona canadensis. 



These are young of C. obesa Htz. 



Clubiona pygmaea. 



Appears to be the female of C. minuta Emer., this name, however, 

 is preoccupied by Xicolet for a Chilian species. 



Clubiona rubra = C abbottii. 

 Clubiona lenta. 



Related to C. pygmaza, but I think distinct, the head and mandibles 

 are not as dark as in that species; the eye region is broad as in 



C. latifrons Emer. I have seen another specimen from Washington, 



D. C, but do not yet know the male. 



Clubiona americana = C. riparia Koch. 



C. americana given to replace the preoccupied C. ornata Emer. 



Clubiona excepta = C. pallens Htz. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March , 



Anyphsena incerta. 



Now known as Gayenna celer Hte. 

 Anyphsena saltabunda. 



Belongs to Gayenna. 



Phrurolithus palustris = P. alarius Hentz (non Emer.). 

 Phrurolithus alarius (Bks. det.) = P. borealis Emer. 

 Agrceca ornata. 



A. repens Emer. is a synonym. 



AGALENID^E. 

 Coelotes medioinalis. 



Now placed in genus Coras. 

 Coelotes fidelis. 



This is related to C. urbanus Keys., but in male palpi the patella 

 is not so prolonged at tip, and with two (instead of one) teeth; a 

 figure is given (PI. X, fig. 8). 



Coelotes longitarsus. 



Is now called C. calcaratus Keys. 



Coelotes altilis. 



These large females may be the females of C. hybridus Emer., 

 otherwise they are new; a new figure of the epigynum is given (PI. 

 XI, fig. 24). 



Coelotes lineatus. 



Based on an immature male, and doubtless belongs to one of the 

 other forms, quite probably C. calcaratus Keys. 



Coelotes gnavus. 



This may be the same as the female C. longitarsus Emer., but his 

 male is another form (C. calcaratus); it, however, is much larger than 

 Cicurinia arcuata, more heavily marked, more geniculate mandibles; 

 the epigynum is figured (PI. XI, fig. 22). 



Cicurina complicata. 



Is C. arcuata Keys., a large female. 



Cicurina creber = C. brevis Emer. 



The latter was described as a Tegenaria. 



Cicurina placida. 



Related to C. brevis, but a size larger; the posterior middle portion 

 of the vulva is more narrow than in C. brevis; a figure is given (PL 

 XI, fig. 26). 



Hahnia bimaoulata = H. agilis Keys. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



DICTYNID^J. 

 Dictyna frondea. 



An immature female, probably of D. foliaced. 



Diotyna oruciata? 



One female, does not now show any differences in markings from 

 D. foliacca, but the vulvar openings are very much farther apart. 



Diotyna minuta. 



Two males, scarcely two millimeters long, belong here. 

 Dictyna foxii. 



Belongs in genus Prodalia. 



Dictyna volupis = D. foliacea Hentz. 

 Dictyna maxima. 



Based on one female, whose large size and dorsal markings do not 

 fit any other described form. Later I took males that appear to 

 belong here; they are three millimeters long, and the tibia of palpus 

 is long, curved, and with a very short projection at base as in figure 

 (PLX, fig. 15). 



Dictyna decorata. 



Only females, which, although more strongly marked than usual, 

 are probably D. foliacea (D. volupis); at least I have seen no males 

 that might indicate another species. 



Dictyna dubia = D. frondea Emer. 

 Amaurobius silvestris. 



I consider it is A. bennetti Blk. 



THERIDIIDJE. 



Mimetus epeiroides = M. interfector Htz. 



Steatoda marmorata. 

 Belongs in Enoplognatha. 



Steatoda guttata. 



Belongs in Crustulina. 



Steatoda triangulosa. 



Belongs in Teutana. 



Pholcomma hirsuta. 



Belongs to Ancylorrhanis. 



Ceratinella similis = C. emertoni Cb. 

 Ceratinella atriceps. 



The only specimen I now have is the Exechophysis plumalis Crosby. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Ceratinella moesta. 



This belongs to the restricted genus Lophocarenum. 



Ceratinella placida. 



This is related to C. emertoni, but I believe distinct, the tibial 

 process is much more slender, the style longer. I give figures of 

 other views of the palpus (PI. X, figs. 6, 11). 

 Ceratinella formosa. 



This is peculiar in the position of the shield, and for it I later 

 made the genus Idionella; it belongs to the true Theridiidae. 



Ceratinella annulipes. 



I made a new genus, Cerati?iops, for this, it belongs to the true 

 Theridiidae. I have seen it also from Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 



Ceratinopsis interpres. 



Now placed in a separate genus, Notionella. 

 Ceratinopsis nigriceps. 



Not nigriceps, but the species Emerton later described as C. 

 auriculatus. 



Ceratinopsis frontatus. 



Belongs to the genus Maso, and a description and figures are 

 given by Emerton under name of Caseola herbicola. 



Grammonota ornata. 



Probably correct, but the abdomen is shrunken now, and does 

 not show the markings. 

 Grammonota venusta. 



Probably the female of Tmeticus tridentatus, but the epigynum 

 (PI. XI, fig. 18) shows the ridges more divaricate than usual; possibly 

 the female of some allied species. 

 Spiropalpus spiralis. 



Now considered to belong to genus Cornicularia. 



Cornicularia communis. 



Probably correct, but the epigynum does not project quite as 

 far as in other specimens. 



Cornicularia pallida. 



An immature female, which agrees in markings and structure 

 with adults from other localities. 



Cornicularia formosa = Gonatium rubena Blk. 

 Cornicularia placida. 



A female Cornicularia, and probably the female of some described 

 species; the figure I gave of the epigynum is not broad enough, 




19K).J NATURAL SCIEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



I give a new one (PI. XI, fig. 19). The posterior median eyes are 

 scarcely their diameter apart, and as close to the plainly larger 

 posterior side eye-. 



Lophomma cristata. 



A female, may belong to this species or to a Lophocarenum; the 

 vulva (PI. XI, fig. 29) is a broad opening, some distance in front of 

 the rima. Sternum triangular, the hind coxse separated by less than 

 their diameter; tarsi 1 a little shorter than metatarsi; P. M. E. scarcely 

 diameter apart, much further from the subequal P. S. E. 

 Lophocarenum castaneum. 



Is a Diplocephalus, I think; the head shows no trace of elevation 

 in these females ; the sternum is broad, and the hind coxae separated 

 by more than width, tarsi I much shorter than metatarsi I; eyes of 

 posterior row subequal, and less than diameter apart (PL XI, fig. 28). 

 Lophocarenum tristis. 



Female of some species probably known in male, and may be 

 L. castaneum: the eyes of posterior row are subequal, the P. M. E. 

 about diameter apart, and a little further from the S. E.; sternum 

 as broad as long, hind coxae separated by less than their diameter. 

 Lophocarenum florens. 



Belongs to Hypselistes. 



Lophocarenum unimaculatum. 



Evidently related to L. florens, which is now placed in Hypselistes; 

 I have seen no further specimens, but the peculiar marking will 

 distinguish it. 

 Lophocarenum miniatum. 



This is a Cornicularia and apparently a dark female of < '. di recta Cb. 

 (PI. XI, fig. 23). 



Lophocarenum venustum = Gonalium rubens Blk. 

 Lophocarenum montiferum. 



Determination correct; it now goes in Diplocephalus. 



Lophocarenum parvum. 



Is L. erigonoides Emer. ; as in L. formosum the tibial process has a 

 deep incision near base not shown in Emerton's figures; it is also 

 probably Erigom percisa Keys; it belongs to genus Diplocephalus. 



Lophocarenum exiguum. 



Is a Diplocephalus, and Emerton has given a description and 

 figures in 1911 from a New England specimen. 



Lophocarenum spiniferum. 



Determination correct, but now placed in Diplocephalus. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Lophocarenum crenatum. 



Determination correct, it now goes in Diplocephalus. 



Lophocarenum crenatoideum. 



Is Diplocephalus crenatum, a d" not fully colored, and apparently 

 longer cephalothorax. 

 Lophocarenum erigonoides. 



Is a Diplocephalus; the male is an immature specimen, and the 

 female is also probably not mature or else belongs to a different 

 species. 



Lophocarenum formosum. 



This is L. erigonoides, I believe, although the palpal organ does 

 not fit Emerton's figure in some parts. I think it is also the Erigone 

 percisa of Keyserling, his figure of palpus is not quite right, but the 

 epigynum is the same as I have figured for formosum (PI. X, fig. 4). 



Lophocarenum arvensis = Comicularia communis Emer. 

 Lophocarenum longior. 



This is apparently a female Comicularia and probably of C. directa; 

 at least I find no differences. 



Tmeticus unicorn. 



This will go in the genus Delorrhipis, but is very different from 

 D. monoceros. A new description is given by Crosby. 



Tmeticus trilobatus. 



Goes in Gonglydiuni. 

 Tmeticus obscurus. 



The tarsi of palpi gone, but from the tibiae it is quite probably 

 T. phlmosus, which has since been taken near Ithaca. 



Tmeticus flaveolus. 



Unchanged; a description, with figures, is given by Emerton in 

 1909 from New England material. 



Tmeticus luxuosus. 



This belongs to Ceratinopsis and is the species described by Emer- 

 ton in 1909 as C. alternatus. 

 Tmeticus rusticus. 



I cannot identify with any described form ; I figure the long slender 

 hook (PL X, fig. 10). 



Tmeticus pallidus. 



Unchanged, but goes in Gonglylidium. 

 Tmeticus humilis = T. plumosus Emer. 



Now in the genus Gonglyidium. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



TmeticuS moestUS = Gonglydium trilobatus Enicr. 

 Tmeticus debilis. 



Unchanged; a description, with figures, is given by Emerton in 



1909 from New England specimens. 



Tmeticus palustris = Gongylidium trilobatus Em. 

 Tmeticus distinctus. 



I give a new figure of the epigynum (PI. XI, fig. 27); this shows a 

 great resemblance to that of T. bidentatum Emer. which Emerton 

 figures in 1909, and probably it is that species. Crosby gives some 

 notes under the genus Tapinocyba. 



Tmeticus maculatus. 



Crosby has given some notes on it; probably the female of T. 

 probatus; Emerton in 1909 gave a new figure of the epigynum which 

 shows two lobes as in my figure. 



Tmeticus minutus. 



Crosby has given notes under the genus Gongylidiellum, a new 

 figure of palpus is here given (PI. X, fig. 5). 



Tmeticus gnavus. 



Xew figures are given of the palpus (PI. X, figs. 3, 7); it is in the 

 trilobatus group. 



Erigone longipalpis. 



More properly placed under E. persimilis Cb. 

 Linyphia communis. 



I place this in Frontinella Cambr. 



Linyphia clathrata. 



This belongs to Neriene. 



Linyphia phrygiana var. annulipes. 



This variation in color is hardly worthy of a name. 



Linyphia variabilis. 



Belongs to Neriene. 



Linyphia conferta. 



Belongs to Neriene, Emerton considers the true conferta to be a 

 southern form, and has described this as Linyphia maculata. 

 Stemonyphantes bucculentus. 



Is the type of the genus Bolyphantes. 

 Diplostyla pallida. 



This is a very pale specimen of nigrina. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Diplostyla alboventris. 



Unchanged; I figure the hook (PI. XI, fig. 21). 



Helophora insignis. 



Is considered to be a true Linyphia. 



Bathyphantes minuta. 



Belongs to Lepthyphantes. 



Bathyphantes nebulosa. 



Belongs to Lepthyphantes. 

 Bathyphantes alpina. 



These are B. zebra, not so strongly colored as normal. 

 Bathyphantes subalpina. 



Determination correct. 



Bathyphantes decorata. 



Very similar to B. zebra, but smaller, paler, and few if any silvery 

 spots on the basal part of the dorsum of abdomen; the male palpus 

 differs a little in the hook and in shape of the outer process which 

 is long and pointed, and with a comb of long hairs above; a new 

 figure is given (PL X, fig. 13). 



Bathyphantes argenteomaculata. 



These are B. zebra, not quite mature. 

 Bathyphantes pallida. 



I cannot place these females; the prominent epigynum is even 

 more protuberant than figured, possibly near to Tmeticus brunneus, 

 but more than one-half smaller. 

 Bathyphantes sabulosa. 



These are B. zebra. 

 Bathyphantes umbratilis. 



Not quite mature female, possibly of Microneta olivacea since the 

 palpi are enlarged. 



Bathyphantes complicata. 



Not this species, but from the male palpus I cannot place it with 

 any described form, though it may be near Microneta longitubus. 



Bathyphantes unimaculata. 



Related to B. complicata; the palpus has a broad band obliquely 

 across as in that species, but the tube is slender and sharp. 



Bathyphantes inornata. 



The palpus figured is B. angulata, but others in lot are B. uni- 

 maculata. 




19K1.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Bathyphantes tristis. 



The median rounded part of the epigynum shows two cavities on 

 the posterior edge. Probably the female of some described Micro- 

 neta or Bathyphantes (PI. XI, fig. 17). 



Microneta latens = !/• quinquedentata Emer. 

 Microneta palustris. 



This is a Pedanostethus; I give a figure of the other side of palpus 

 (PI. XI. fig. 16) ; this docs not seem to agree with any described species; 

 the epigynum of the females (PL XI, fig. '25) (collected after descrip- 

 tion was made) agrees very well with one of Emerton's figures of 

 riparius. 



Microneta luteola. 



I give a figure of other side of palpus (PI. X, fig. 2), it were prob- 

 ably better in Bathyphantes, and related to B.calcaratus Emer.; there 

 are, however, no marks on the basal part of the abdomen, but several 

 taint, whitish, transverse spots toward tip. 



Microneta flaveola. 



This is probably only a form of Bathyphantes angulata; the hook, 

 however, is not as heavy as in that species, and there are several 

 structures not shown on Emerton's figure. In the original figure 

 a part of the median bilobed process was mistaken for a continuation 

 of the upper limb of the hook (PL X, fig. 9). 



Microneta complicata. 



A figure is given of the back of the palpus (PL X, fig. 14); it is 

 related probably to Bathyphantes intricata Emer., but distinct. 



Microneta minutissima. 



The size given was a little too small; it is about 1.1 mm. long (PL 

 X, fig. 12). 



Microneta frontata. 



This is a Pedanostethus, and it agrees well in size, color, and epigy- 

 num with what Emerton figures as his female P. pumilus, and I 

 believe it is the same. 



Microneta gigantea. 



This appears to be Tmeticus brunneus Emer., the female of which 

 was figured in 1909. The low, broad head and small A. M. E. would 

 seem to indicate a special genu-. 



Microneta distincta. 



Perhaps better placed in Tmeticus. I give new figures (PL X, 



fig. 1) of the palpus; apparently not otherwise known. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



EPEIRIDiE. 



Epeira cinerea = E. cavatica Keys. 

 Epeira sclopetaria. 



Is same as E. sericata CI. which has page precedence. 



Epeira patagiata. 



Is same as E. ocellata CI. which has page precedence. 



Epeira strix. 



Has older name in E. foliata Koch. 



Epeira marmorea. 



Is the same as E. gigas Leach. 



Epeira insularis = E. gigas Leach. 

 Epeira labyrinthea. 



Is considered to form a separate genus, Metepeira. 



Epeira placida. 



Belongs to genus Mangora. 



Epeira gibberosa. 



Belongs to genus Mangora. 

 Epeira parvula = E. prompta Htz. 

 Epeira stellata. 



Belongs in genus Plectana. 



Epeira ithaca. 



Is young of E. gigas Leach. 



Singa maculata. 



Name preoccupied, changed to S. truncata. 



Acrosoma rugosa = A. gracilis Walck. 

 Argiope riparia = A. aurantia Lucas. 

 Argiope transversa = A. trifasciata. 

 Argyroepeira hortorum. 



Goes in genus Leucauge. 



TBTRAGNATHID^E. 

 Tetragnatha vermiformis. 



In genus Eugnatha. 



Tetragnatha straminea. 



In genus Eugnatha. 



Tetragnatha caudata. 



Belongs in genus Eucta. 

 Tetragnatha pallida. 



The specific name was preoccupied and changed by F. 0. P. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



Cambridge to pallescens. McCook has published a description; 

 it goes in genus Eugnatha. 



Pachygnatha brevis. 



This is the real P. xanthostoma of Koch. 



Pachygnatha xanthostoma. 



This is the P. xanthostoma of McCook, but not of Koch; I propose 

 to call it P. mccooki n.n. 



THOMISID^J. 

 Xysticus stomachosus. 



Probably is X. ferox Htz. 



Xysticus feroculus = X. trigultatus Keys. 

 Xysticus distinctus. 



This is apparently a specimen of X. stomachosus, recently trans- 

 formed, in which the parts of the vulva show more distinctly than 

 usual. 

 Xysticus brunneus. 



This is the female of the true X. limbatus Keys. 



Xysticus crudelis = X. brunneus Bks. 

 Xysticus transversus = X. stomachosus Keys. 

 Xysticus lentus. 



This is the male of gulosus, previously not described. 



Xysticus nervosus. 



Unchanged; Emerton has given additional description and figures. 



Xysticus formosus- 



Unchanged, Emerton has given additional description and figures. 



Xysticus limbatus. 



Unchanged; it is a male of the true limbatus of Keyserling; not 

 the limbatus of Emerton. 

 Xysticus quadrilineatus = X. luctans Koch. 

 Xysticus maculatus. 



Immature specimens, probably of X. stomachosus. 



Oxyptila georgiana = O. americana Bks. 

 Oxyptila conspurcata. 



Unchanged; the 0. georgiana Keys, is the same species. 



Misumena rosea = Misumessus asperatus Htz. 

 Misumena georgiana. 



I consider this to be the M. celer of Hentz. 



Misumena foliata = Misumessus asperatus Htz. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Misumena placida = Misumessus asperatus Htz. 

 Philodromus vulgaris = P. pernix Blk. 

 Philodromus prselustris 



Immature specimens of P. pernix Blk. 



Philodromus signifer. 



This, I believe, is the same as Ph. expositus of Keyserling (Ph. 

 maculatus Blk.). 

 Philodromus gracilis = Ph. pernix Blk. 

 Philodromus unicolor = P. infuscatus Keys. 

 Philodromus ornatus. 



Unchanged, Emerton has given a description and figures. 



Philodromus placidus. 



Unchanged; related to Ph. ornatus. 



Philodromus minutus. 



In well-marked specimens the legs are lined behind with black, 

 the hind pair on front edge; I think that Ph. brevis Emer. is the male 

 of this species; I have taken P. brevis at Ithaca. 



Philodromus minusculus. 



This closely resembles Ph. ornatus and it is probably that species; 

 but its very much smaller size induced me to describe it; I have 

 no other specimens as small. 

 Philodromus exilis. 



This differs from the other small species of the genus in elongate 

 abdomen; I believe the Ph. bidentatus Emer. is the male of this 

 species. 



Philodromus rufus. 



Unchanged; Emerton gives figures and description under name 

 of P. pictus. 



Philodromus laticeps. 



This immature male is Ph. pernix Blk. 

 Philodromus aureolus. 



These are young specimens; in appearance they agree with Ph. 

 lineatus. Emer., but one cannot be sure without adults. 



LYCOSID./E 

 Lycosa nidicola = L. helluo Walck. 

 Lycosa communis = L. avida Walck. 

 Lycosa nigroventris. 



This is the male of L. frondicola. 



Lycosa similis = L. pratensis Emer. 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



Lycosa rufiventris = /-. avara Kej - 

 Lycosa humilis Schvsogyna gracilis Bks. 

 Lycosa polita = Trochosa rubicunda Keys. 

 Lycosa scutulata = L. rabida Walck. 

 Lycosa vulpina = L. aspersa Htz. 

 Lycosa crudelis = L. hdluo Walck. 

 Lycosa immaculata = L. aspersa Htz. 

 Lycosa exitiosa = L. aspersa Htz. cf- 

 Lycosa oblonga = L aspersa Htz. 

 Pardosa pallida. 



Name preoccupied and changed by Chamberlin to P. emertoni, 

 bu1 I think it is P. distincta Blackw. 



Pardosa annulata. 



Is the female of P. minima Keys. 



Pardosa venusta = P. lapidicina Emw. 



Pardosa brunnea. 



Is P. glacialis Thor., and I think is P. modica Blackw. 



Pardosa gracilis. 



This is a Schizogyna, Lycosa relucens of Montgomery is the same 

 form. 



Pardosa albopatella. 



Now known as P. minima Keys. 



Pardosa nigropalpis. 



Is P. flavipes Keys., and I think also P. canadensis Blackw. 



Pardosa montana = P. xerampelina Keys. 

 Pardosa moesta. 



Chamberlin has given a new description and figure in his Revision 

 of the Lycosidae. P. diffusa Em. is apparently the male of this 

 species. 



Pardosa obsoleta = P- lapidicina Enier. 

 Pirata montana. 



These females are not montana, but agree with aspirans Chamber. 



Pirata montanoides. 



Female runs out to P. aspirans, and probably is that species, but 

 the figure of the vulva of that species shows the tip flattened out 

 instead of bent down as normally the case, so it appears different. 

 P. humicoliis is also close, the darker colors are of no specific value. 

 at least not in allied P. minuta (PI. XI, fig. 20). 



Pirata agilis = montana Emer. 

 6 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Pirata exigua = P- minuta Emcr. 



A very dark female, with black-banded legs and dark sternum; 

 the vulva seems to be the same as in the pale form. 



Pirata minuta. 



A pale female with wholly pale, unbanded legs, and pale sternum. 



Aulonia aurantia. 



This is an immature Pardosa. 



Ocyale undata. 



Goes in the genus Pisaurina. 



Dolomedes sexpunctatus. 



Young specimens of D. tenebrosus. 



Dolomedes scriptus. 



Young specimens of D. tenebrosus. 



ATTIDiE. 

 Phidippus mystaceus = P. electus Koch, not Hcntz's myslaceus. 

 Phidippus albomaculatus = P- electus Koch. 

 Phidippus rauterbergi = P. audax Htz. 

 Phidippus mccooki = P. castrensis Koch. 

 Phidippus tripunctatus = P. audax Htz. 

 Phileeus princeps = Phidippus pvinami Peck. 

 Philaeus militaris. 



Belongs to genus Dendryphantes. 



Dendryphantes capitatus = D. ocfavus Htz. 

 Dendryphantes elegans. 



Belongs to genus Tutelina. 



Dendryphantes flavus. 



Specimens immature, but agree in markings with adults. 

 Dendryphantes insignis = D. octavus Htz. 

 Dendryphantes ornatus = D. octavus Htz. 

 Dendryphantes exiguus = D. flavipedes Peck. 



Specimens lack the dark mark on femora, normally present; the 

 female had not been described. 

 Icius formosus. 



Belongs to Marpissa, and is possibly the unknown male of M. binus. 



Icius albovittatus = Dendryphantes militaris. 

 Icius palmarum. 



Is now in the genus Wala. 



Icius mitratus. 



» 



Also belongs to Wala. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



Icius harti. 



Is /. fuliginous Blackw. 



Icius moestUS ^ l)i nilii/iihunles mililari. Htz. 



Icius elegans. 



A young specimen, probably of Wala. 



Eris octavus = Dendryphantes octants Htz. 

 Eris nervosus. 



Belongs in the genus Zygoballus. 



Hasarius hoyi = Pellenes falcata Clerck. 

 Habrocestum latens = Pellenes falcata CI. 

 Habrocestum coecatum = Pellenes boreal is Bks. 

 Habrocestum peregrinum. 



(iocs in the genus Pellenes. 



Habrocestum splendens = Pellenes decorus Blackw. 

 Saitis pulex. 



Is kept now in Habrocestum. 



Astia vittata. 



Now known as Mcevia niger. 



Epiblemum scenicum. 



Belongs in genus Salticus. 



Admestina wheeleri. 



I have elsewhere 1 shown this to be tibialis of Koch. 



Marptusa familiaris. 



I have elsewhere 1 shown this to be Marpissa undata De (leer. 



Marptusa rupicola. 



I believe it distinct from familiaris (undata); it also occurs at 

 Great Falls, Va., under pieces of rocks. 



Synageles picata. 



Is now placed in genus Peckhamia. 



Explanation of Plates X and XL 



Plate X. — Fig. 1. — Micronela diMncta, palpus. 

 Fig. 2. — Mi* rum la luteola, palpus. 

 Fig. 3. — Tmeticus gnavus, palpus. 

 Fig. 1. Lophocarenum formosum, palpus. 

 Fig. 5. -Tmeticus mi mil us, palpus. 

 Fig. <). — Ceratinella placida, top of palpus. 

 Fig. 7. — Tmeticus gnavus, palpus. 

 Fig. 8. Coelotes fidelis, tibia and patella. 

 Fig. '.'. Microneta flaveola, palpus. 



Ent. News, IX, 1 12, 1898. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Fig. 10. — Tmeticus rusticus, hook. 

 Fig. 11. — Ceratinella placida, palpus. 

 Fig. 12. — Microneta minutissima, palpus. 

 Fig. 13. — Bathyphantes decora, palpus. 

 Fig. 14. — Microneta complicate,, palpus. 

 Fig. 15. — Dictyna maxima, palpus. 



Plate XI. — Fig. 16. — Microneta palustris, palpus. 

 Fig. 17. — Bathyphantes tristis, head. 

 Fig. 18. — Grammonota venusta, vulva. 

 Fig. 19. — Cornicularia placida, vulva. 

 Fig. 20. — Pirata montanoides, two vulvae. 

 Fig. 21. — Diplostyla alboventris, hook. 

 Fig. 22. — Ccelotc* gnavus', vulva. 

 Fig. 23. — Lophocarenum miniatum, vulva. 

 Fig. 24. — Coelotes altilis, vulva. 

 Fig. 25. — Microneta palustris, vulva. 

 Fig. 26. — Cicurina placida, vulva. 

 Fig. 27. — Tmeticus distinctus, vulva. 

 Fig. 28. — Lophocarenum castaneum, vulva. 

 Fig. 29. — Lophomma cristata, vulva. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHI LA. 1916. 



PLATE X. 



BANKS: CAYUGA LAKE SPIDERS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XI. 



BANKS: CAYUGA LAKE SPIDERS. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



April 18. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-five persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Emlen Physick, March 21, 1916. 

 Charles Chauncey, April 3, 1916. 

 Norton Downs, April 15, 1916. 



The Publication Committee announced the presentation of a 

 paper entitled ' ' Contributions to the Anatomy of Python reticulatus 

 (Schneider)," by Joseph C. Thompson (April 8, 1916). 



Temperature and the Activities of Animals. — Merkel H. Jacobs, 

 Ph.D., remarked that the continued existence of living organisms 

 is possible within a range of temperature of the order of magnitude 

 of possibly one one-thousandth of that encountered in the universe. 

 The majority of the activities of organisms occur within the region 

 from slightly below 0° C. to about 45° C. For individual species the 

 range is usually less — sometimes as little as 15° or even 6° C. A 

 certain number of forms can exist for a short time in a more or less 

 inactive condition through a range of 350° C. or more. 



Even within the natural range for a species the effects of different 

 temperatures is very striking. A rise of 40° C. may cause at least 

 a 16-fold increase in the rate of most of the chemical reactions under- 

 lying the various manifestations of life. Since different processes 

 are accelerated unequally by such a rise and since the point of equi- 

 librium in reversible reactions is changed, the effect on the organism 

 a- a whole may be qualitative as well as quantitative. The use of 

 high temperatures has been a favorable means of securing striking- 

 modifications of existing forms of life. A possible case of a heritable 

 variation produced in this way is the three-vacuoled race of Parame- 

 cium which appeared sixteen months ago in the Zoological Laboratory 

 of the University of Pennsylvania and which has remained constant 

 ever since. 



Different organisms are differently situated with respect to the 

 daily and yearly changes of temperature they are called upon to 

 meet. Many marine forms are subject to an average change of less 

 than 1° C. a day and 2° or 3° a year. On the other hand, terrestrial 

 forms and those living in small bodies of fresh water frequently 

 endure a daily range of 30° C. or more. The rotifer Philodina roseola 

 is subjected to especially severe conditions. Living in small pools 

 7 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



whose temperature in the springtime may drop almost to the freezing 

 point at night and rise in the sunlight 10° C. above the air tempera- 

 ture, it frequently passes in the space of two or three hours from an 

 arctic to a tropical environment and vice versa. In general, the 

 forms that in their natural environment have to meet sudden tem- 

 perature changes show greater powers of acclimatization than those 

 living under more constant external conditions. A comparison of 

 the powers of rapid acclimatization to high temperature of 

 Paramecium or the tadpole which lives in fresh water pools, with 

 starfish larvae which live in the ocean, shows striking differences in 

 this respect. 



Many of the terrestrial animals have developed the power of main- 

 taining a constant body temperature under widely varying external 

 conditions. This power, however, is insufficient in most cases to 

 make possible a strictly world-wide distribution. Man is able to 

 supplement natural with artificial means of temperature control. 

 Even he, however, is considerably affected by external temperatures, 

 especially high ones. One factor in producing this result appears 

 to be the effect of such temperatures on the circulation. The prac- 

 tical result of a more complete control of temperature by man would 

 be the opening up of the enormously fertile tropical regions of the 

 earth. 



The following were ordered to be printed : 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



STUDIES IN THE DERMAPTERA AND ORTHOPTERA OF THE COASTAL PLAIN 

 AND PIEDMONT REGION OF THE SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES. 



BY JAMES A. G. REHN AND MORGAN HEBARD. 



In the summers of 1911 and 1913, the present authors made 

 extensive collections of, and field studies in, the Dermaptera and 

 Orthoptera found in the southeastern States. About the time we 

 were able to begin laboratory work on the first season's collecting, 

 other series from the same general region were placed in our hands, 

 since which time an increasing amount of data has become available 

 bearing on the same subject. We feel the most advisable method 

 of making available to workers the really great amount of distribu- 

 tional, synonymic and variational information now in hand, to be 

 the publication of this single large paper. The authors' time has 

 been given more or less regularly for a period of two years to the 

 preparation of this paper and others made necessary by collections 

 referred to herein. It should be borne in mind that the present paper 

 is not a final one, but instead a contribution based on available 

 material, although nearly all of the species known from the regions 

 studied are treated. 



In general, the geographic area covered by the collections here 

 studied is, the Coastal Plain and Piedmont regions from the Potomac 

 River south to north-central (non-peninsular) Florida, west to the 

 western boundary of Georgia. In addition a fair amount of material 

 from the higher elevations in Georgia, from certain localities in 

 central Florida and also from Maryland and other more northern 

 States has been included. Aside from the Georgia mountain region 

 records, which are geographically very important, those from outside 

 the main area covered by the paper have been included to place 

 on record the extreme geographic limits of certain species, or to cite 

 material used in the detailed discussion on the species. 



In the study of certain genera here treated we have found it not 

 only desirable, but necessary, to revise completely those groups as 

 found within North America, in the course of which work practically 

 all the available collections bearing on the subjects have been 

 examined. These revisions consumed much time and involved some 

 travel. The collections of the United States National Museum, the 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology and the Georgia State Collection 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



and the private series of Mr. W. T. Davis and Prof. A. P. Morse 

 have furnished a great amount of important data, although the 

 greater portion of our information has been derived from our own 

 collections. The genera which have required comprehensive revis- 

 ionary study are Cariblatta, Scudderia, Amblycorypha, Neocono- 

 cephalus, Orchelimum, Conocephalus, Atlanticus, Cycloptilum, Cryp- 

 toptilum, Gryllus and Miogryllus. 



Many data have been accumulated in the course of the studies 

 here presented, which show the necessity of revisionary work in a 

 number of other genera, but, unfortunately, either material or time 

 is lacking at present to consider properly or thoroughly these groups ; 

 we have, however, given summaries of such general conclusions as 

 we have reached in these cases, the contributions being presented as 

 abstracts of detailed studies we have in preparation or contempla- 

 tion, or as accumulations of important general conclusions for the 

 use of other workers. Such contributions will be found under 

 Nomotettix,Neotettix, Tettigidea, Pardalophora, Hippiscus, Schistocerca, 

 Melanoplus, and the Group Anaxiphites with particular reference to 

 Anaxipha. 



The total number of specimens from the area under consideration 

 examined in the preparation of this paper is 14,402, representing 

 251 species and geographic races, belonging to 100 genera. Of these 

 species nine are here described as new, but a number of other new 

 forms in the recently studied genera were based on material compris- 

 ing portions of the series here recorded. In the text of this paper 

 forty specific names and that of one genus have been placed in the 

 synonymy, the completeness of the present material, with the conse- 

 quent clearer appreciation of specific variation and character con- 

 stancy, making the sinking of these names necessary. No synonymy 

 has been established without several careful checkings of the evidence. 

 Of the specimens examined, 7,294, or about one-half, were collected 

 by the authors, chiefly in July, August and September, 1911 and 

 1913. The other principal sources of material, with the number of 

 specimens examined from each, are as follows: 



Collection of W. T. Davis 1,071 



Georgia State Collection 877. 



Collection of A. P. Morse 784 



United States National Museum Collection 703 



Cornell University Collection 636 



Hebard Collection (other than Rehn and Hebard collecting) 611 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia Collection 



(other than Rehn and Hebard collecting) 211 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Smaller series have also been examined belonging to the North 

 Carolina Department of Agriculture, the Museum of the Brooklyn 

 Institute of Arts and Sciences, the Pennsylvania State Department 

 of Zoology and the Museum of Comparative Zoology. The neces- 

 sity of seeing the historic Scudder Collection in the latter institution, 

 to which three visits were made while preparing the present paper, 

 is always very pressing in work on the North American species of the 

 Orthoptera. 



In order to reduce the length of our entries and yet give complete 

 data, we have used in the present paper, as in a number of previous 

 ones, standard abbreviations for the sources of the material, or, in 

 the case of the larger series which can be located by the collector's 

 name we have considered the latter sufficient to place the specimens. 



No location is given for material collected by Rehn and Hebard, 

 jointly or individually, as it is understood it is in the Philadelphia 

 collections, either the Academy of Natural Sciences or the Hebard 

 Collection. Material in the collection of Mr. W. T. Davis, of New 

 Brighton, New York, collected by himself, and that of Dr. A. P. Morse, 

 of Wellesley, Massachusetts, collected by the same individual, has 

 no location given for it, as it is understood such material is in their 

 respective collections unless otherwise specified. Material collected 

 by other individuals in the Davis and Morse- Collections, has the 

 location indicated by the abbreviations given below. No location 

 is given for material credited as collected by Dr. J. Chester Bradley, 

 it being understood that is in the Georgia State Collection at Atlanta 

 unless from localities in the Okeefenokee Swamp, in which case it is 

 in the collection of Cornell University. From each of these col- 

 lections a representation has been retained in the Philadelphia 

 collections in return for the work of identification. 



The abbreviations for the source of material used through the 

 present paper are as follows: 



A. N. S. P., for the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



B. I., for the Museum of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. 

 Cornell Univ., for the collection of Cornell University. 



Davis Cln., for the collection of Mr. W. T. Davis, of New Brighton, 



St aten Island, New York. 

 Ga. St. Cln., for the Georgia State Collection, located at Atlanta. 

 Hebard Cln., for the Hebard Collection, in Philadelphia. 

 M. C. Z., for the Museum of Comparative Zoology, at Cambridge, 



Massachusetts. 

 Morse Cln., for the collection of Prof. A. P. Morse, of Wellesley, 



Massachusetts. 




90 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



N. C. St. Dept. Agr., for the collection of the North Carolina State 



Department of Agriculture at Raleigh. 

 Pa. St. Dept. Zool. Cm., for the collection of the Pennsylvania State 



Department of Zoology at Harrisburg. 

 U. S. N. M., for the United States National Museum at Washington. 



In the references to the authors as collectors they are indicated 

 by the initials R. and H. 



Localities. 



To facilitate the placing of localities given in the body of the paper 

 we have tabulated alphabetically under States the localities repre- 

 sented by fair series. The elevations given have been taken from 

 Government topographical charts, official lists of elevations or our 

 own aneroid determinations. In a few cases we have been unable 

 to secure information on the elevation, in which case the fact is so 

 stated. In addition, localities at or very near the sea-level have no 

 elevation given. The dates given are those for the specimens 

 examined and the location is that of the ownership of the same. 



Virginia. ' 



Arlington, Alexandria County, eleva- 

 tion about 200 feet, VII, 9, 1914. 

 (H.) 



Falls Church, Fairfax County, eleva- 

 tion 364 feet. V, 25, 1913. (A. N. 

 Caudell.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Fredericksburg, Spotsylvania and 

 Stafford Counties, elevation about 

 10 to 250 feet. VII, 20, 1913. 

 (R. & H.) 



Lynchburg, Campbell County, eleva- 

 tion about 700 feet, VII, 22, 1913. 

 (R. & H.j 



Glencarlvn, Alexandria County, eleva- 

 tion 1S3 feet, IV, 27, 1913. (A. N. 

 Caudell.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Orange, Orange County, elevation 500 

 to 800 feet. VII, 21, 1913. 

 (R. &H.) 



Petersburg, Dinwiddie County, eleva- 

 tion about 100 feet, VII, 23, 1913. 

 (R. & H.) 



North Carolina. 



Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, eleva- 

 tion 670 to 750 feet, VII, 27, 1913. 

 (R. & H.) 



Fayetteville, Cumberland Countv, 

 elevation 100 to 150 feet, IX, 9, 

 1911. (R. & H.) 



Goldsboro, Wayne County, elevation 

 110 feet. VII, 25, 1913. (R. & H.) 



Greensboro, Guitford County, eleva- 

 tion 900 feet, VII, 26, 1913. 

 (R. & H.) 



Lake Waccamaw, Columbus Countv, 

 elevation 60 feet, IX, 8, 1911. 

 (R. & H.) 



Murphy, Cherokee County, elevation 

 1,540 feet. VII, 25, 1903. (Morse.) 

 [Morse Cln.] 



Raleigh, Wake County, elevation 350 

 feet, Various dates, collectors and 

 collections. 



Southern Pines, Moore County, eleva- 

 tion 519 feet, XI, 1908 and 1905. 

 (A. H. Manee.) [N. C. Dept. Agr.l 



Trvon, Polk County, elevation 1,090 

 feet, (W. F. Fiske.) [U. S. N. M.] 



Weldon, Halifax County, elevation 70 

 feet. VII, 24, 1913. (R. & H.) 



Wilmington, New Hanover County. 

 IX, 8, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Winter Park, New Hanover Countv. 

 IX, 7, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Wrightsville, New Hanover County. 

 IX, 7, 1911. (R. & H.) 



South Carolina. 



Ashlev Junction, Charleston Countv. 



VIII, 15, 1913. (R.) 

 Columbia, Richland County, elevation 



300 feet, VII, 28, 1913. (R. & H.) 

 Denmark, Bamberg Countv, elevation 



257 feet. VIII, 15, 1903. (Morse.) 



[Morse Cln.] 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



/ 





KL 



,— ' 



.• 



Fig. 1. — Outline map of the southeastern United States, showing the positions 

 of the principal localities, represented by series, in the collections studied 

 in connection with this paper. 




92 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Florence, Florence County, elevation 



138 feet, IX, 6, 1911. (R. & H.) 

 Isle of Palms, Charleston County. 



VIII, 15, 1913. (R.) 



Magnolia, Charleston County. IX, 5, 

 1911. (R. & H.) 



Manning, Clarendon County, eleva- 

 tion 91 feet V, 1914. (Witmer 



^ Stone.) [A. N. S. P.] 



Spartanburg, Spartanburg County, 

 elevation 875 feet. VIII, 6, 1913. 



Sullivan Island, Charleston County. 



IX, 5, 1911. (R. & H.j 

 Yemassee, Hampton and Beaufort 



Counties, elevation 18 to 40 feet. 

 IX, 4, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Georgia. 



Albany, Dougherty County, elevation 

 184 feet. VIII, 1, 1913. (R. & H.) 



Atlanta, Fulton County, elevation 

 900 to 1,050 feet. Numerous dates 

 and collectors. [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Augusta, Richmond County, elevation 

 140 to 200 feet. VII, 29, 1913. 

 (R. & H.) 



Austell, Cobb County, elevation 900 to 

 1,000 feet. VIII, 6, 1910. [Ga. 

 St. Cln.] 



Bainbridge, Decatur County, eleva- 

 tion 110 feet. Numerous dates. 

 (J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Billy's Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 

 Charlton County. V and VI, 1912, 

 IX and XII, 1913. (J. Chester 

 Bradley.) [Cornell University.] 



Black Rock Mountain, Rabun County, 

 elevation 2,000 to 3,500 feet. V, 20 

 to 25, 1911. [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Brunswick, Glynn County. II, 12, 

 1911. [Ga. St. Cln.] VII, 30, 1911. 

 (R. & H.) 



Buckhead, Fulton County, elevation 

 1,000 feet. IV, 16, 1911. [Ga. St. 

 Cln.] VIII, 2, 1913. (R. & H.) 



Burton, Rabun County, elevation 

 1,800 feet. V, 21, 1911. (J. Chester 

 Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Chase Prairie, Okeefenokee Swamp, 

 Charlton County. IX, 5, 1913. 

 (J. Chester Bradley.) [Cornell Univ.] 



Clayton, Rabun County, elevation 

 2,000 to 3,700 feet. VI. (Davis.) 

 [Davis Cln.] 



Columbus, Muscogee County, eleva- 

 tion 200 to 350 feet. VII, 16, 1913. 

 (J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Cornelia, Habersham Countv, eleva- 

 tion 1,500 feet. V, 28, 1906. [Ga. 

 St. Cln.] VII, 1910. (Davis.) 

 .[Davis Cln.] 



Cumberland Island, Camden County. 



^ VIII, 31, 1911. (R. & H.) 



Currahee Mountain, Stephens County, 

 elevation 1,700 feet. VIII, 5, 1913. 

 (H.) 



Dalton, Whitfield Count}', elevation 

 1,000 to 1,200 feet. VIII, 7, 1913. 



(R.). 

 De Witt, Mitchell County, elevation 



cannot be ascertained. VIII, 19, 

 ^ 1912. [Ga. St. Cln.] 

 Fargo, Clinch County, elevation 116 



feet. VIII, 31, 1913. (J. Chester 



Bradley.) [Cornell Univ.] 

 Groveland, Bryan County, elevation 



cannot be ascertained. VII, 28, 



1913. (J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. 



St. Cln.] 

 Hebardville, Ware Countv, elevation 



'about 150 feet. V, 15, 1915. (H.) 

 Homerville, Clinch County, elevation 



176 feet, VIII, 27, 1911. (R. & H.) 

 Honev Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Charlton County. VI, 1912. (J. 



Chester Bradley.) [Cornell Univ.] 

 Isle of Hope, Chatham County. IX, 



3,1911. (R. & H.) 

 Jesup, Wayne County, elevation 100 



to 125 feet. IX, 1, 1911. (R. & H.) 

 Jasper, Pickens Countv, elevation 



1,200 to 1,500 feet. VIII, 5, 1913. 



(R.) 



Macon, Bibb County, elevation 350 

 feet. VII, 30 to 31, 1913. (R. &H.) 



Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 

 Swamp, Charlton Countv. V, 16, 

 1915. (H.) 



Okeefenokee Swamp (general label), 

 Ware, Charlton and Clinch Counties: 

 V, 1911. (J. Chester Bradley.) 

 [Cornell Univ.] 



Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, eleva- 

 tion 4,100 feet. VIII, 20. 1913. 

 (J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Rabun Bald, Rabun Countv, elevation 

 4,000 to 4,800 feet, VIII, 21, 1913. 

 (J. Chester Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Sandfly, Chatham Countv. IX, 3, 

 1911. (R. & H.) 



Savannah, Chatham County. Various 

 dates, collectors and collections. 



Sharp Mountain, Pickens County, 

 elevation 1,800 to 2,000 feet (baro- 

 metric). 1 VIII, 6, 1913. (R.) 



1 This peak is about nine miles to the westward of Jasper and should not be 

 confused with Sharp-top Mountain near the same place. The latter peak is 

 higher than Sharp Mountain and is to the eastward of Jasper. Sharp-top 

 Mountain was visited by Morse in 1903. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



93 



Spring Creek, Decatur County, eleva- 

 tion about 110 feet. Numerous 

 dates. (J. Chester Bradlev.) [Ga. 

 St. Cln.] 



Stone Mountain, De Kalb County, 

 elevation 1,050 to 1,686 feet. Vicin- 

 itv of same, elevation 950 to 1,050 

 feet. VIII, 3, 1913. (R. A: H.) 



St. Simon's Island, Glvnn Count v, IV 

 to Y, 1011 and L912. (J. Chester 

 Bradlev.) [( la. St. Cln.] VIII, 30, 

 1911. (R. &H.) 



Suwanee Creek, Lot 328, 12th Dis- 

 trict, Okeefenokee Swamp, Charlton 

 County. VIII, 28, 1911. (R. &H.) 



Tallulah Falls, Rabun County, eleva- 

 tion 1,630 feet, VIII, 1887. [U. S. 

 N. M. and Bebard Cln.] VII, 1910. 

 (Davis.) [Davis Cln.] 



Thomasville, Thomas County, eleva- 

 tion 250 feet. Various dates. (H. 

 and R. & H.) 



Thompson's Mills, Jackson County, 

 elevation cannot be ascertained. 

 Various dates. (H. A. Allard.) 

 [U. S. N. M.] 



Tifton, Tift County, elevation 370 

 feet. IX, S, 1910." [Ga. St. Cln. J 



Toccoa, Stephens Coilntv, elevation 

 1,094 feet. VIII, 4, 191.3. (H.) 



Tuekoluge Creek, Rabun Count v, 

 elevation 1,600 to 2,600 feet. VII, 

 1910. (Davis.) [Davis Chi.] 



Tvbee Island, Chatham County. IX, 

 2,1911. (R. &H.) 



Warm Springs, Meriwether County, 

 elevation 850 to 1,200 feet. VIII, 

 9 to 10, 1913. (R.) 



VYavcross. Ware Countv, elevation bis 

 feet. VIII, 11, 1903. (Morse 

 [Morse Cln.] 



Wilson Gap, Mountain City, Rabun 

 County, elevation cannot be ascer- 

 tained! VI 11, 22, 1913. (J. Chestei 

 Bradley.) [Ga. St. Cln.] 



Florida. 



VIII. 



Atlantic Beach, Duval County. 



24 to 25, 1911. (R. & H.) 

 Fernandina, Nassau County. (W. H. 



Finn.) [U. S. X. M.] 

 Hastings, St. John Countv. Various 



dates. (A.J.Brown.) [Morse Cln.] 

 Indian River, Volusia and Brevard 



Counties. 1896. (T. J. Priddey.) 



[Hebard Cln.] 

 Jacksonville, Duval County. Various 



dates, collectors and collections. 



Examined by authors, VIII, 25, 191 1 . 

 Live Oak, Suwanee Countv, elevation 



100 to 120 feet. VIII, 26, 1911. 



(R. &H.) 

 Ortega, Duval County. IX, 6, 1913. 



(Davis.) [Davis Cln. 1 

 Pablo Beach, Duval Countv. IX, 5, 



1913. (Davis.) [Davis Cln.] 

 South Jacksonville, Duval County. 



IX, 7, 1913. (Davis.) [Davis Cln.] 

 St. Augustine, St. John County. XI, 



8, 1911. (G. P. Englehardt.) [B. I.] 



Distributional Summary. 

 Two important influences or sets of factors quite evidently control 

 the distribution of the Dermaptera and Orthoptera in the area 

 studied, these influences being the same which largely control the 

 character of the biota of any region. The two are: physiography 

 and immediate environment; temperature and climatic regions or 

 life-zones. The two influences share equally in controlling the 

 distribution of certain species, but in numerous cases one and not the 

 other is the governing factor. It seems best, therefore, to summarize 

 our distributional generalizations separately under each of the 

 main divisions. We must always bear in mind that a fauna is not 

 a fixture, but a complex constantly changing and modifying, either 

 through the evolution of its own living components or the modifica- 

 tion of its own limitations by readjustment of its physical or climatic 

 barriers. Of the first grouping the effect of immediate environment 

 is best studied in a relatively circumscribed area and, other things 

 being equal, the occurrence of the environment is controlled by the 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



more broadly influencing factor of the physiography of the land. 

 The physiographic divisions we here use are those which are cor- 

 related with the distribution of groups of species of the orders studied. 



Physiographic Regions. 

 The physiographic regions we find correlated with the distribution 

 of the species found in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, 

 Georgia and northern Florida are: 



a. High Appalachian summits. 



b. Lower summits of the Appalachian uplift and higher valleys of 



the same area. 



c. Piedmont. 



d. Coastal Plain. This is divisible into two sections which we have 



for convenience called the Upper Coastal and the Lower 

 Coastal. 



e. Maritime and estuarine region. 



These regions may be roughly delimited as follows: 



High Appalachian Summits. — Only the highest peaks of the North 

 Carolina and Virginia mountains are embraced in this term. Very 

 few Orthoptera have been taken in this region. 



Lower Summits and Valleys of the Appalachian Uplift. — Comprising 

 the greater (remaining) portion of the Southern Appalachian system 

 to its disappearance in Alabama, and the typical mountain valleys, 

 as opposed to the broad intrusive Piedmont valleys, are grouped 

 under this heading. The Georgia mountains, having in general a 

 lower elevation than the major portion of the North Carolina moun- 

 tain area, lack a number of the species found in the latter region, 

 and also on their lower portions shelter species more typical of the 

 Piedmont. Other species, which also occur in the Georgia mountains, 

 penetrate the valleys of the North Carolina mountains, but do not 

 frequent the main ridges in the latter State. 



Piedmont. — This division includes the area of the Piedmont pene- 

 plain, or the region from the base of the Appalachians down to the 

 fall-line, also embracing some of the larger and broader valleys 

 which penetrate into the mountainous region proper. The fall-line 

 extends in a curve from the vicinity of Washington, District of 

 Columbia, to Columbus, Georgia. 



Coastal Plain. — All the area situated below (i.e., coast ward of) 

 the fall-line is embraced in this grouping. It is, from the Orthopteran 

 evidence, distinctly divisible into two portions which may for con- 

 venience be called the Upper and Lower Coastal Plain regions. 

 The Upper region covers all the territory of the Coastal Plain situated 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



to the nortli and inland of a line drawn from the vicinity of Newbern, 

 North Carolina, to the vicinity of Albany, Georgia, passing a short 

 distance inland of Wilmington, North Carolina, Charleston, South 

 Carolina, and Savannah, Georgia. The territory on the coastal side 

 of this line, except the very limited section included in the next 



Fig. 2. — Outline map of the southeastern United States, showing the more 

 extensive physiographic regions here discussed. The limited areas treated 

 under "High Mountain Summits" and the very narrow "Sea-coast and 

 Estuarine" region are not indicated. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



area, we would consider the Lower Coastal Plain, which condition 

 passes southward into peninsular Florida. The western boundary of 

 the Lower Coastal Plain influence is not fixed as yet. 



Maritime and Estuarine Region. — We include under this, barrier 

 beach and coastal sand dunes, salt marshes and the extensive fresh 

 marshes of the larger estuaries. The region is limited to a distance 

 of a few miles from the coast-line, except in the case of the estuaries. 



The following tabulations of species have .been made on the basis 

 of their distribution in relation to the physiographic features of the 

 region studied. 



I. General. 



Labia minor (Probably introduced.) Blatta orientalis (Introduced.) 



Blattella germanica (Introduced.) Nemobius carolinus carolinus 



II. Appalachians (except high summits) to coast. 



Neotettix femoratus (Up to 5,500 feet Scudderia furcata furcata (Up to 3,S00 



elevation in North Carolina.) feet in North Carolina.) 



Paratettix cucullatus Conocephalus fasciatus 



Orphulella pelidna (Up to 5,000 feet in Conocephalus brevipennis 



North Carolina.) Ellipes minuta 



Arphia xanthoptera Myrmecophila pergandei 



Arphia sulphurea (Up to 5,700 feet in Gryllus assimilis (Up to 4,500 feet in 



North Carolina.) North Carolina.) 



Dissosteira Carolina (Up to 4,500 feet CEcanthus angustipennis (Up to 4,000 



in North Carolina.) feet in North Carolina.) 



Schistocerca serialis (Up to 5,700 feet (Ecardhus quadripunctatus (Up to 4,000 



in North Carolina.) feet in North Carolina.) 



III. Appalachian valleys and lower mountains in Georgia to coast. 



Oligonyx scudderi Trimerotropis citrina 



Tettigidea armata CEcanthus latipennis 



Truxalis brevicornis Neoxabea bipunctata 



Amblytropidia occidenlalis Phylloscyrtus pulcheUus 

 Pardalophora phatiicoptera 



IV. High Appalachian summits only. 



Nomotettix cristatus cristatus Melanoplus diver gens 



P.odisma glacialis variegata 



V. Mountains only (summits and adjacent valley localities) in 



southeastern States. 



Cryplocercus punctulatus Melanoplus sylvestris 



Diapheromera Carolina Melanoplus walshii 



Acrydium hancocki N eoconoce phalus ensiger (Northward 



Chorthippus curtipennis (Northward occurring Piedmont and Coastal.) 



occurring Piedmont and Coastal.) Conocephalus allardi 



Pardalophora apiculata Atlanticus monticola 



Paratylolropidia beutenmuelleri Ceuthophilus lapidicola 



Melanoplus similis CEcanthus nigricornis 

 Melanoplus deceptus 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



97 



VI. Mountains and Piedmont. 



Am somorpha ferruginea 



Acrydium arenosum angustum (North- 

 ward occurring Coastal.) 



Acrydium ornatum 



Neotettix proavus 



Eritettix simplex (Northward occurring 

 Coastal.) 



Orphuhlla spedosa (Northward occur- 

 ring Coastal.) 



Chlaaltis conspersa (Northward occur- 

 ring Coastal.) 



Encoptolophus sordidus (Northward 

 occurring Coastal.) 



Hesperotettix brevipennis (Northward 

 occurring Coastal.) 



Trimerotropis saxatilis 



Mclanoplus tribidus (Northward occur- 

 ring Coastal.) 



Melanoplus devius 



Melanoplus decoratus 



Melanoplus luridus luridus (North- 

 ward occurring Coastal.) 



Melanoplus punctulatus punctulatus 

 (Northward occurring Coastal.) 



Amblycorypha rolundifolia rotundi- 

 folia (Northward occurring Coastal, 

 passing at lower elevations in South- 

 eastern States toward A. r. parvi- 

 pennis.) 



PterophyUa camellifolia camellifolia 

 (Northward occurring Coastal.) 



Conocephalus nemoralis 



Atlanticus davisi 



Ceuthophilus uhleri (Northward occur- 

 ring Coastal.) 



Ceuthophilus gracilipes 



Nemobius fasciatus fasciatus (Occur- 

 ring Coastal northward.) 



Nemobius maculatus 



(Ecanthus niveus (Northward occurring 

 Coastal.) 



VII. Lower Mountains, Piedmont and Upper Coastal Plain. 



Nomotettix cristatus compressus 

 Chortophaga viridifasciata (To Sullivan 



Island, South Carolina.) 

 Melanoplus carnegiei (To Yemassee, 



South Carolina.) 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur- 



rubrum 

 Melanoplus fernoratus 

 Orchelimum vulgar e 

 Hapithus agitator agitator 



VIII. Lower Mountains and Piedmont Region south to southwestern 



Georgia and adjacent northern Florida, absent from all or 



most of Carolinian and low Georgian Coastal. 



Diapheromera femorata (To Monti- 

 cello, Florida.) 



Spharagemon bolli (To Tallahassee, 

 Florida.) 



Melanoplus scudderi scudderi (To Mon- 

 tieello, Florida.) 



Melanoplus atlanis (To Marianna, 

 Florida.) 



Melanoplus impudicus (To Spring 



Creek, Georgia.) 

 Conocephalus saltans (To Thomasville 



and Spring Creek, Georgia.) 

 Atlanticus americanus (To Tallahassee 



and River Junction, Florida.) 



IX. Piedmont Region. 



Doru aculeatum 



Ischnoptera pensylvanica pensylvanica 

 (Occurring Coastal northward.) 



Ischnoptera uhleriana uhleriana (Oc- 

 curring Coastal northward.) 



Ischnoptera insolita 



Schistocerca damnified damnifica (Oc- 

 curring Coastal northward.) 



Campylacantha olivacea (Macon, Geor- 

 gia, only. 



Melanoplus impiger (Augusta, Georgia, 

 only.) < 



Atlanticus testaceus (Occurring Coastal 

 northward.) 



Ceuthophilus latens 



Ceuthophilus spinosus (Occurring Coas- 

 tal northward.) 



Ceuthophilus negleclus (Occurring Coas- 

 tal northward.) 



Nemobius griseus funeralis (Macon, 

 Georgia, only.) 



Nemobius bruneri 



Nemobius confusus 



(Ecanthus exclamationis (Raleigh, North 

 Carolina, only.) 



(Ecanthus pini (Raleigh. North Caro- 

 lina, only.) 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



X. Piedmont and Coastal Plain only to extreme northern Florida. 



Acrydium arenosum arenosum 

 Melanoplus strumosus (To De Funiak 

 Springs, Florida.) 



Hadenoecus puteanus 

 Anaxipha exigua 

 Cyrtoxipha Columbiana 



XL Piedmont and Coastal Plain to peninsular Florida. 



Vostox brunneipennis 



Ischnoptera deropeltiformis 



Ischnoptera johnsoni 



Ischnoptera couloniana 



Ischnoptera borealis 



Ischnoptera bolliana (Northward only 



to Raleigh, North Carolina.) 

 Periplaneta americana 

 Chorisoneura texensis (Northward only 



to Tryon, North Carolina.) 

 Stagmoma ntis Carolina 

 Tettigidea lateralis lateralis (At higher 



elevations and northward in Coastal 



Plain passing into T. I. parvipennis.) 

 Mermiria alacris (Northward only to 



Newbern, North Carolina.) 

 Syrbula admirabilis 

 Dichromor pha viridis 

 Ronialea microplera (Northward only 



to central North Carolina.) 

 Leptysma marginicollis (Northward 



only to vicinity of Washington, 



District of Columbia.) 

 Melanoplus luridus keeleri (At higher 



elevations and northward passing 



into M. I. luridus.) 

 Paroxya clavuligera (Local in Pied- 

 mont.) 



(Coastal alone 



crepitans 

 and pass- 



Scudderia texensis 



Amblycorypha uhleri 

 northward.) 



Microcentrum rhombifolium 



Neoconocephalus robustus 

 (Northward Coastal only 

 ing into N. r. robustus.) 



Neoconocephalus triops 



Orchelimum agile 



Orchelimum minor (Northward Coastal 

 only.) 



Odontoxiphidium apterum (Extending 

 as high as Sand Mountain and Blue 

 Ridge, Georgia, but only north to 

 Fayetteville, North Carolina.) 



Camptonotus carolinensis 



Gryllotalpa hexadactyla 



Tridactylus apicalis (Data poor.) 



Cycloptilum squamosum (North Caro- 

 lina northward Coastal only.) 



Nemobius ambitiosus (North only to 

 Florence, South Carolina.) 



Anurogryllus muticus (Northward 

 Coastal only.) 



Gryllus domesticus 



Miogryllus verticalis 



Orocharis saltator (Northward Coastal 

 only.) 



XII. Piedmont and Coastal Plain in northern area of Southeastern 



States only. 



Melanoplus confusus (South to Have- 

 lock, North Carolina.) 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia (South to 

 Weldon, North Carolina, and Chat- 

 tanooga, Tennessee.) 



Amblycorypha floridana carinata (South 

 of fall line in South Carolina and 

 Georgia passing into A. f. floridana; 

 northward Coastal only.) 



Conocephalus strict us (South to Raleigh 

 and Newbern, North Carolina.) 



Atlanticus pachymerus (South to Have- 

 lock, North Carolina, and "South 

 Carolina.") 



Nemobius palustris (Only Coastal in 

 region, south to Wilmington, North 

 Carolina; Piedmont northward.) 



XIII. Coastal Plain to peninsular Florida. 



Anisolabis annulipes 

 Labidura bidens 

 Prolabia unidentata 

 Ischnoptera divisa 



Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens (North 

 only to southeastern Virginia.) 



Cariblatta lutea lutea (North only to 



northern North Carolina.) 

 Manomera tenuescens (North only to 



northern North Carolina.) 

 Neotettix bolteri 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



Paxilla olusa (North only to eastern 

 North Carolina. I 



Tettigidea prorsa (To northern Florida. ) 



Radinotatum brevipenne brevipenne 

 (North only to Yemassee, South 

 Carolina; straggler into Piedmont in 

 Georgia.) 



Clinocephalus elegans (Maritime only 

 northward.) 



Spharagi man coUare wyomingianum 



Scirtetica marmorata picta (In northern 

 North Carolina passing into S. m. 

 marmorata.) 



Psinidia f i m stralis 



Schistocerca obscura (North to Mary- 

 land; straggler in Piedmont.) 



Schistocerca nlutacca (In Tennessee 

 drainage in western North Caro- 

 lina.) 



Schistocerca damnifica calidior (Passing 

 at fall line and north of North Caro- 

 lina into S. d. damnified.) 



Eotettix pusillus (North only to North 

 Carolina: straggler into Piedmont 

 in Georgia.) 



Hesperotettix floridensis (North only 

 to Augusta, Georgia; straggler in 

 Piedmont in Georgia.) 



Melanoplus decorus (Limited distribu- 

 tion in North Carolina.) 



Melanoplus australis (Limited distri- 

 bution in South Carolina and 

 Georgia.) 



Melanoplus attenuatus (Limited distri- 

 bution, Georgia to North Carolina.) 



Melanoplus hebardi (Limited distribu- 

 tion in Georgia.) 



Melanoplus nubilus (Limited distribu- 

 tion in North Carolina.) 



Melanoplus mirus (Limited distribu- 

 tion in North Carolina.) 



Melanoplus stegocercus (Limited dis- 

 tribution in Georgia.) 



Melanoplus scapularis (Limited distri- 

 bution in Georgia.) 



Melanoplus nigrescens (Limited distri- 

 bution in North Carolina and 

 Georgia.) 



Mi lanoplu.s (pit rut us ( Limited distribu- 

 tion in Georgia.) 



Melanoplus clypeatus (Limited distri- 

 bution in Georgia. 



Melanoplus punctulatus arbort us (Pass- 

 ing in Georgia Piedmont and north- 

 ward in Coastal Plain into M. p. 

 punctulatus.) 



Paroxya atlantica atlantica 



Anthaca phalaugium (North only to 

 Augusta, Georgia.) 



Scudderia cuneata (North only to 

 Raleigh, North Carolina.) 



Symmetropleura modesta (North only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina.) 



Pterophylla camellifolia intermedia 

 (Passing in Georgia Piedmont and 

 northward in Coastal Plain into 

 P. c. camellifolia.) 



Pyrgocorypha uncinata (North only to 

 Raleigh, North Carolina.) 



Neoconocephalus exiliscanorus (Strag- 

 gler in Georgia Piedmont from L~pper 

 Coastal Plain.) 



Neoconocephalus caudellianus 



Neoco n ocepha I us pa I uslris 



Orchelimum glaberrimum 



Orchelimum laticanda (Straggler in 

 Georgia Piedmont.) 



Orchelimum militare 



Orchelimum superbum (Virginia and 

 New Jersey only.) 



Conocephalus stictomerus (South only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina.) 



Cryptoptilum antillarum (North only to 

 Alamance County, North Carolina.) 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum (North 

 onjy to Petersburg, Virginia; strag- 

 gler in Georgia Piedmont.) 



Nemobius fasciatus socius (North only 

 to Raleigh, North Carolina, north- 

 ward and in southern Piedmont 

 passing into .V. /. fasciatus.) 



Nemobius cubensis cubensis 



Anaxipha pulicaria (North only to 

 Raleigh, North Carolina.) 



Falcicula hebardi (Straggler in North 

 Carolina Piedmont.) 



XIV. Lower Coastal Plain in the Carolinas, Georgia and extreme 



northern Florida. 



Xamotettix cristalus arcuatus (Passing 

 northward and higher into N. c. 

 compressus and southward into .V. c. 

 f'nridanus.) 



Melanoplus furcatus (Georgia and 

 Florida only. I 



Scudderia curvicauda laticauda (Grad- 

 ually intergrading northward and 

 higher into aS'. c. curvicauda.) 



Orchelimum bradleyi (North to Wil- 

 mington, North Carolina.) 

 Atlanticus dorsalis (North to "South 



Carolina.") 

 Atlanticus calcaratus (Georgia and 



Florida only.) 

 Scapteriscus vicinus (Georgia only.) 

 Snipteriscus acletus (Georgia only.) 

 Xi mobius palustris aurantius (Georgia 

 only.) 




100 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



XV. Lower Coastal Plain into peninsular Florida. 



Ischnoptera nigricollis (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Ceratinoptera diaphana (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Eurycotis floridana (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Periplaneta australasiae (Not north of 



Florida.) 

 Periplaneta brunnea (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Not north 



of Florida.) 

 Gonatista grisea (North to South Caro- 

 lina.) 

 Thesprotia graminis (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Anisomorpha baprestoides (North to 



South Carolina.) 

 Paratettix rugosus (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Tettigidea spicata (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Mermiria bivitlata 

 Arphia gramdata 

 Chortophaga australior (North to 



Savannah, Georgia.) 

 Spharagemon crepitans (Not north of 



Georgia.) 

 Stenacris vitreipennis 

 Gymnoscirtetes pusillus (Not north of 



Georgia.) 



Melanoplus rotundipennis (Not north 

 of Georgia.) 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum propinquus 

 (Passing at the Georgia and South 

 Carolina fall line into M. f. femur- 

 rubrum; not typical north of Wil- 

 mington, North Carolina.) 



Aptenopedes sphenarioides sphenarioides 

 (Not north of Georgia.) 



Aptenopedes aptera (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Belocephalus subapterus (North 

 South Carolina.) 



Belocephalus davisi (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Neoconocephalus velox (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Atlanticus gibbosus (Straggler into 

 Georgia Piedmont.) 



Ceuthophilus latibuli (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Scapteriscus abbreviatus (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Anaxipha vittata (Not north 

 Georgia.) 



Hapithus agitator quadratus (Inland 

 and northward passing into H. a. 

 agitator.) 



Hapithus brevipennis (Not north of 

 Georgia.) 



of 



to 

 of 



of 



of 

 of 



of 



XVI. Maritime and Estuarine Element. 



Anisolabis maritima 

 Mermiria intertexta 

 Orphulella olivacea 



Orphulella halophila (Southern Flor- 

 ida.) 

 Trimerotropis maritima 



Orchelimum concinnum 

 Orchelimum fidicinium 

 Conocephalus aigialus 

 Conocephalus nigropleuroides 

 Conocephalus spartince 



In table II, we have given as a matter of information the elevation 

 of the upper limit of distribution, where this is exactly known. 

 Table III covers forms occurring in the larger Appalachian valleys, 

 as far north as North Carolina or the lower mountains in Georgia, 

 or both, to the coast, exclusive of the Maritime and Estuarine 

 Region. In table V appear species which considerably modify their 

 physiographic distribution elsewhere in the eastern United States, 

 and this fact is there, and in subsequent tables, indicated in paren- 

 theses. In table VIII, we have endeavored to express a peculiar 

 type of distribution : one covering the lower mountains and Piedmont 

 and, although absent from most or all of the Coastal Plain, extend- 

 ing south into southwestern Georgia or even into the adjacent 

 portion of northern Florida. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



The more interesting generalizations drawn from the physiographic 

 summaries are the following. Northward numerous species, charac- 

 teristic of the Piedmont in the area here treated, pass to the Coastal 

 Plain of that region, frequently, or rather generally, leaving the 

 Piedmont. The explanation of this is apparently temperature 

 control and the distribution is typical of the Upper Austral life-zone. 

 Toward the southern end of the Piedmont region numerous forms, 

 characteristic of this section in the Carolinas, enter the lower moun- 

 tains, doubtless as valley intrusions; this also can be explained by 

 temperature control and is zonal in character. Along the coastal 

 side of the Piedmont in Georgia, a number of Coastal Plain species 

 penetrate the Piedmont for considerable distances to points such 

 a- Warm Springs, vicinity of Stone Mountain, Thompson's Mills, 

 Toccoa and even to suitable situations on the slopes of Currahee 

 Mountain, an outlying knob near Toccoa. This is quite marked 

 in the case of Warm Springs, which has seven species of this category 

 occurring there. 2 The extending influence of the larger river valleys, 

 such as the Savannah, Oconee, Ocmulgee, Flint and Chattahoochee, 

 is doubtless responsible for these intrusions, for such they are is 

 evidenced by the known distribution of the species elsewhere and the 

 generic habitat. The division of the Coastal Plain into two areas 

 has abundant evidence in its favor in the Orthoptera, as the tabula- 

 tions show. It is significant also that quite a few of the forms 

 do not reach into peninsular Florida. Further studies on the dis- 

 tribution of central Florida forms of the orders will doubtless throw 

 much additional light on the fixity of these limitations. It is possible 

 that a lack of material may be partly responsible for the apparent 

 restriction of these ranges. In the case of the divisions of the Coastal 

 Plain, our material is sufficiently full to show the correlations very 

 clearly. 



Life Zones. 



The life zones represented in the area studied are the following: 



a. Boreal or Canadian. 



b. Transition or Alleghanian. 



€. Upper Austral or Carolinian. 



d. Lower Austral or Austroriparian. 



e. Basic Austral or Sabalian. 3 



2 These are: Cariblatta luleahdea (also Thompson's Mills), Radinotatum brevi- 

 penne brevipenne, Scirtetica marmorata picta, Eotettix pusillus, Hesperotettix 

 floridensis, Atlanticus gibbosus (also on Currahee Mountain) and Cryptoptilum 

 trigonipalpum (also vicinity of Stone Mountain). 



3 For remarks on this zone see p. 104. 



8 




102 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 









♦♦"MM* v+> 



Fig. 3. — Outline map of the southeastern United States, showing the extent of 

 the principal life zones. The circumscribed Boreal areas on the mountains 

 of North Carolina and Virginia have not been indicated. For comments 

 upon and definition of the Sabalian zone see the zonal distributional informa- 

 tion in the introductory portion of this paper. The extent of the Sabalian, 

 as well as the other zones to the west of the Georgia-Alabama line and the 

 Chattahoochee River, has not been determined by us. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



The zones may be briefly outlined as follows: 4 



Boreal or Canadian Zone. — This zone occupies the summits of the 

 higher mountains in North Carolina and Virginia, suck as the Black 

 Mountains, Koan Mountain, Grandfather Mountain, Mt. Pisgah, 

 Balsam Mountains, etc. This is the area of balsam forests within 

 the territory studied. We do not feel that the zone has been suf- 

 ficiently studied to consider the total number of species reported 

 from it as a fair index of the Orthoptera therein. 



Transition or Alleghanian Zone. — This zone comprises all the truly 

 mountainous country below the Boreal summits; in Georgia, how- 

 ever, being largely restricted to the elevations greater than 1,500 

 feet. Slope exposure is largely responsible for the presence or 

 absence of this element near its upper and lower margins. In North 

 Carolina, large valleys of tributary streams of the Tennessee carry 

 tongues of the Upper Austral for considerable distances into the 

 otherwise solidly Transition country. The same appears to be true 

 to a lesser degree in the Transition area of Georgia, which is in large 

 part much tinctured with Upper Austral elements. 



Upper Austral or Carolinian. — The area comprised in this zone 

 extends from the lower border of the Transition zoneTdown to a line 

 roughly drawn from a short distance up stream of the mouth of the 

 Potomac River, to Weldon, North Carolina, to Raleigh and Char- 

 lotte, North Carolina, traversing transversely the area between 

 Spartanburg and Columbia, South Carolina, and crossing the State 

 of Georgia- in a southwesterly direction to the vicinity of Warm 

 Springs, Georgia, then curving northwest into Alabama. As stated 

 above, pronounced valley intrusions of this fauna enter western 

 North Carolina from the Tennessee Valley, while in Georgia it 

 apparently pushes its way well into and even up the lower slopes 

 of the mountains, apparently in sharp competition with the 

 Transitions forms occurring in the same region. The two elements 

 will be governed in their distribution, at one of their points 

 of contact, by slope exposure; at another, by the normal cover or 

 by the burning-over of the land. As we have discussed above 

 under Physiography, a number of distinctly Lower Austral forms 

 occur within normally Upper Austral areas, at localities such as 

 Currahee Mountain, Toccoa, vicinity of Stone Mountain and Thomp- 

 son's Mills, and these extensions probably are, as suggested there, 

 due to the extending influence of large river valleys, which provide 



4 For a careful presentation of the life zones of North Carolina, see Brimley, 

 Journ. Elisha Mitchell Scient. Soc, XXIX, pp. 19 to 27, (1913). 




104 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



avenues of entrance to suitable environments in a region in general 

 characterized by a different fauna. The fact that these extensions 

 occur only, as far as known, at a few localities gives support to this 

 explanation. 



Lower Austral or Austroriparian. — This zone covers the area 

 situated below (i.e., in elevation) the Upper Austral, down to a line 

 extending from the southern portion of Pamlico Sound, North 

 Carolina, to Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina, to Yemassee, South 

 Carolina, then swinging in a curve to Albany, Georgia, and the 

 Chattahoochee River west of the last-mentioned locality. A few 

 forms, which we would consider more representative of the Upper 

 Austral zone, occur as stragglers within this area at localities such 

 as Goldsboro and Fayetteville, North Carolina, Sumter and Flor- 

 ence, South Carolina, Augusta and Macon, Georgia. It is possible 

 that future work may show these forms to be equally characteristic 

 of the Lower Austral; a very questionable possibility to our minds. 

 In these cases, the interdigitation which we have mentioned as 

 occurring at the upper limit of the Lower Austral is probably repeated 

 in the reverse direction, but physiographic control features are 

 probably responsible for these intrusions. 



Basic Austral or Sabalian.— -The present zone, which is co-extensive 

 with the physiographic area called Lower Coastal by us, we find is 

 so decidedly characterized by a considerable number of species, 

 which extend southward to southern or at least to central or north- 

 central Florida, that we have been compelled to give it a name. 

 We have found no term in the literature which we could use, so we 

 here propose the name Sabalian. The name has been derived from 

 the technical name of the cabbage palmetto (Sabal palmetto), 

 which is probably the most striking tree of the region named, and 

 whose distribution is co-extensive with that area. 



The Sabalian zone is characterized by at least six species, outside 

 of those occurring only in central and southern Florida, which are 

 also West Indian in distribution or extremely close to West Indian 

 species. 



The zone extends from the coast-line inland to the lower boundary 

 of the Lower Austral, given above in defining that region, north to 

 the region of Pamlico Sound and south into Florida. It is narrow 

 in the Carolinas, but becomes broad in Georgia and its exact extent 

 to the westward remains to be worked out. The exact line where 

 this same influence gives way to the Tropical in southern Florida 

 has not been critically mapped, owing to the need of more information 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



from the central and south-central portions of the peninsula. The 

 information from the Tropical area of southern Florida is relatively 

 full. 



The zonal distribution of the species treated in the present paper 

 is tabulated below. In some cases it is known that the species, in 

 certain regions of North America, occur in zones other than those 

 here checked, but, unless this has a distinct bearing on the possible 

 occurrence of the species in the same zone in the region here studied, 

 we have not indicated its presence other than as found in the south- 

 eastern States. In a few cases where species will in all probability 

 be found in a certain zone in the southeastern States, judging by 

 the analogy of other regions, or where the form is found in two 

 zones, but by defect of the record is not known from one situated 

 between these two, we have inserted a check for that life zone with 

 a brief qualification. 



Transi- Upper Lower 



DERMAPTERA. Boreal. tion. Austral. Austral. Sabalian. 



LABIDURIDJE. 



Anisolabis annulipes 1 (part) 1 



Anisolabis maritima 1 1 



Labidura bidens 1 1 



LABIID^J. 



Voslox brunneipennis Ill 



Labia minor Introduced-range nearly general. 



Prolabia unidentata 1 1 



FORFIOULID^. 



Doru aculeatum 1 



ORTHOPTERA. 



BLATTID^. 



Ischnoptera deropeltiformis 111 



1 schnoptera nigricollis 1 



Ischnoptera johnsoni Ill 



I schnoptera p. pensylvanica 1 1 



Ischnoptera divisa 1 (part) 1 



I schnoptera couloniana Ill 



Ischnoptera u. uhleriana 1 



Ischnoptera u. fulvescens 1 



I schnoptera borealis 1 1 



I schnoptera bolliana Ill 



Ischnoptera insolita 1 



Blattella germanica Introduced-range general. 



( 'tratinoptera diaphana 



Cariblatta I. lutea 1 



Eurycotis floridana 1 



Blatta orientalis Introduced-range general. 



Periplaneta americana 1 1 



Periplaneta australasiae... 1 




106 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 




191(5.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



107 



Boreal. 



Spharagcmon crepitans 



Spharagernon bolli 



Spharagernon collare unjo- 



mingianum 



Scirtetica marmorata picta.. 



Psinidia .'< m stralis 



Trimerotropis maritima 



Trimerotropis citrina 



Trimerotropis saxatilis 



Romalea micro ptera 



Stenacris vitrei pen nis 



Leptysma marginicollis 



Schistocerca obscura 



Schistocerca alutacea 



Schistocerca serialis 



Schistocerca d. damnified.... 



Schistocerca d. calidior 



Gym noscirtetes pusillus 



Campylacantha olivacea 



Eotettix pusillus 



Eotettix signatus 



Hesperotettix floridensis 



Hesperotettix b. brevipennis 

 Hesperotettix b. pratensis... 

 Paratylotropidia beuten- 



muelleri 



Melanoplus similis 



Melanoplus deceptus 



Melanoplus decorus 



Melanoplus australis 



Melanoplus attenuatus 



Mela no pi u s hebardi 



Melanoplus nubilus 



Melanoplus tribulus 



Melanoplus devius 



Melanolpus decoratus 



Melanoplus rotundipennis.. 



Melanoplus stegocercus 



Melanoplus minis 



Melanoplus scapularis 



Melanoplus strumosus 



Melanoplus sylvestris 



Mela noplus carnegiei 



Melanoplus s. scudderi 



Mela noplus walshii 



Melanoplus nigrescens 



Melanoplus querneus 



Melanoplus atlanis 1 



Melanoplus f. fernur-ru- 

 brum 1 



Melanoplus f. propinquus.. 



Melanoplus impudicus 



Mela noplus impiger 



Melanoplus confusus 



Melanoplus I. luridus 



Melanoplus I. keeleri 



Melanoplus femoratus 



Melanoplus furcatus 



Melanoplus clypeatus 



1 (location provisional) 

 1 



1 



1 

 I 



1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 (part) 



1 



1 



1 (part) 



1 (part) 

 1 (part) 

 1 (part) 



1 



1 



1 (part) 

 1 



1 (part) 

 1 (part) 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 (part) 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 



1 

 1 



1 (part) 



1 

 1 

 1 (part) 



1 (part) 

 1 



1 



1 




108 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 




1916.] 



NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Transi- Upper Lower 



Boreal. tion. Austral. Austral. Sabalian. 



Oecanthus pini 1 



Oecanthus latipennis 1 1 



Neoxabea bipundata 1 1 



Anaxipha exigua 1 1 



Anaxipha pulicaria 1 



Anaxipha vittata 



Falcicula hebardi 1 1 



Cyrtoxipha columbiana 1 1 



Phylloscyrtus pulchellus 1 1 



Hapithus a. agitator 1 (part) 1 (part) 



Hapithus a. quadratus 1 (part) 



Hapithus brevipennis 



Orocharis saltator 1 1 



(part) 



Physiographic and Zonal Factors Compared. 



When the physiographic and zonal correlations are contrasted, 

 we find that in Virginia the two factors are largely governed by the 

 same boundaries, the Lower Austral alone not extending up the 

 valley of the Potomac as far as the fall-line, which is the Piedmont- 

 Upper Coastal Plain line. In North Carolina, the increased tem- 

 perature effect of lower latitudes is evident, as the upper line of the 

 Lower Austral, after following the fall-line, crosses it and ascends 

 to higher country, this tendency increasing in Georgia, where the 

 upper boundary of the same zone is in places as high as a thousand 

 feet above sea level. Conversely, this crossing of the physiographic 

 boundaries by zonal boundaries is found to the northward of the 

 area here treated, where the entire Coastal Plain section of New 

 Jersey and all or at least the greater portion of the Coastal Plain 

 eastern peninsula of Virginia, Maryland and Delaware, is Upper 

 Austral. It has been found in the Middle Atlantic States that many 

 Upper Austral species are limited to southern New Jersey, not 

 occurring above the fall-line. This restriction is probably due to 

 the fact that the southern portion of New Jersey has a more equable 

 winter climate (and consequently a higher sum total annual tem- 

 perature) than the Piedmont of Pennsylvania, an Upper Austral 

 region. There is also in southern New Jersey an extension of certain 

 elsewhere Lower Austral species, although in the great majority of 

 the forms the region is clearly Carolinian. The control governing 

 the distribution of these species is probably environment, as the 

 sands and gravels of southern New Jersey are in general similar to 

 those of the Coastal Plain to the south. 



Origin of the Orthopterous Fauna of the Southeastern States. 

 We have made some tabulations bearing on the probable origin 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



of the Orthopterous fauna of the region studied. It is essential, 

 however, for a proper understanding of the subject, to have similar 

 data on the fauna of the Gulf Coast and Texas, in order to make 

 definite or conclusive generalizations. The material from which 

 such data can be obtained is now available, but it will be some years 

 before our studies will permit us to make the desired tabulations. 

 In consequence any expressions on the question of origin would be 

 premature and certainly require amplification, if not revision, 

 within a relatively short time, as the Gulf Coast can be expected to 

 supply much of the really vital information on origin and dispersal. 

 We propose, therefore, to discuss at a later date, as a whole, the 

 information on this subject for the Southern States. 



Systematic Treatment of Species. 



DERMAPTERA. 



LABIDURID^]. 



Anisolabis annulipes (Lucas). 



North Carolina. Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19 4 juv 9 

 Raleigh XI. 25 1904, (C. Pinkus), Alban ' y> yill, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



w • tl [ i, ty 7 iai ! m i*n^ Bainbridge, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 

 \\ nghtsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), BiUy > s Island; yi, 12, 1912, (J. C. 



1 cf, 1 9. Bradley), 19. 



Camden, II, 15 to 25, 1 cf, [M. C. Z.]. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), Florida. 



1 9 ; VIII, 16, 1903, (A. P. Morse), At i antic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



1 9. H.), 1 9. 



Charleston, 19, [M. C. Z.]. Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 1 d\ 



Georaia 19 ' t Hebard Cln -1; m - 1900 » 1 <?> 



ljeor 9 ia - [U. S. N. M.]. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), Indian River, 1896, (T. J. Priddev), 



1 juv. 9 . 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



AVe have before us a male specimen taken by the senior author 

 at Philadelphia, on August 9, 1902, in the back yard of the Academy; 

 there is also a female from Washington, District of Columbia, in the 

 National Museum without further data. The species is doubtless 

 widely distributed by commerce; it has in recent years been found 

 to have an extensive distribution throughout the Lower Austral and 

 Subtropical Zones of the southeastern United States. 



At two localities the species was found under signs, on oak 

 (Albany) and sweet gum (Augusta). The majority of the above 

 series was found under debris on the ground. 




112 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Anisolabis maritima (G6n6). 



Virginia. 



Fortress Monroe, 2 juv. 9 , [U. S. N. 

 M.]. 



North Carolina. 



Newbern, (A. S. Bickmore), 1 d\ 

 (M. C. Z.]. 



South Carolina. 

 Charleston, 1 9, [M. C. Z.]. 



Georgia. 

 St. Simon's Island, IV-V, 1911-12, 

 (J. C. Bradley), 3 9, 1 juv. 9; 

 VIII, 30, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Fernandina, (W. H. Finn), 1 juv. 9, 



[U. S. N. M.]. 

 Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddev), 1 juv. 9, 



[Hebard Cm.]. 

 St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 9 , 



1 juv. c\ [Morse Cln.]. 

 Crescent City, 1 juv. 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Cedar Keys, 1 juv. 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Indian River, 1896, (T. J. Priddev), 



1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Labidura bidens (Olivier). 



South Carolina. 



No further data, (A. Agassiz), 1 d\ 

 [M. C. Z.]. 



Georgia. 



Brunswick, V. 2, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 

 1 cf, 19. 



Bainbridge, IX-X, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 d\ 6 9, 3 juv. 9. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-22, 1911, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 juv. 9 ; VIII, 26-28, 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d 1 , 2 9. 



Florida. 



St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 juv. 

 9, [Morse Cln.]. 



LABIID^B. 



Vostox brunneipennis (Serville). 



Maryland. 

 Baltimore, 1 9, [M. C. Z.]. 



North Carolina. 



Tryon, (W. F. Fiske), 1 o\ [U. S. 



N. M.]. 



Georgia. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 cf . 

 Cave Spring, 1 juv. 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. 



Atlanta, VIII, 28, IX, 5, 1910, 2 d\ 



1 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. 

 Okeefenokee Swamp, V, 9, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



Florida. 



St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 2 9 , 



[Morse Cln.]. 

 Palatka, II, 1868, 1 d\ 1 juv. 9, [M. 



C Z 1 

 Ormond, 19,1 juv. 9 , ]M. C. Z.]. 



Savannah, (W. F. Fiske), 1 d\ [U. S. Enterprise, V, 17, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.j. 



N. M.]. 



The normal type in males of this species is one which has a single 

 inner tooth situated at the end of the proximal third of the forceps; 

 one of the males from Atlanta has the inner enlargement of the 

 forceps continued to a point a little distad of the middle, terminating 

 there in a double tooth. At Tryon and Savannah the species was 

 found on oak. 



Labia minor (Linn»us). 



Atlanta, Georgia, XI, 5, 1910, 2 d", [Ga. 

 State Cln.l. 



Unadilla, Ga., VI, 25, 1910, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 9 . 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



113 



Prolabia unidentata (Beauvois). 



North Carol in a. 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & II.), 



5 ',29. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 5 cf, 19, 1 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 

 Vienna, VI, 30, 19,1 juv. 9, [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 



Spring Creek, VI, 1911, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 9 : VIII, 26-28, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 3 cf . 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 <f, 5 9, 2 juv. 9; IX, 1-5, 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 cf , 4 9, 

 1 juv. cf ■ 



Brunswick, II, 12, 1911, 1 cf, 4 9 

 1 juv. 9, [Ga. State Cln.]; VIII. 

 30, 1911, (H.), 1 <f, 2 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, XI, 3, 1911, (W. '1'. 



Davis), 19. 

 Appalachicola, (Thaxter), 1 cf , [M. 



C. Z.]. 

 Volusia County, II, 10, 1869, (J, A. 



Allen), 4 cf, 2 9, [Scudder Cln.]. 

 Indian River, 1896, (T. J. Priddey), 



1 cf, 3 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Silver Springs, (G. P. Englehardt), 



1 cf , [B. I.]. 



In the series of males recorded above, we find nine having the 

 forceps with inner teeth both proximad and distad, three having 

 but one arm furnished with a proximal and no distal teeth, two 

 having both arms furnished with proximal but with no distal teeth 

 and one having no teeth whatever, the forceps of this latter specimen, 

 which is from Wilmington, being much like those of the female in 

 contour and curvature but much more slender. 



The previous North Carolina records for the species are Raleigh 

 and Boardman, these being the most northern localities at which 

 it has been found. Though usually found under the bark of pine 

 logs, the series from Lake Waccamaw was found under the bark of a 

 prostrate, decajung sweet gum trunk. 



FORFICULID^l. 



Doru aculeatum (Scudder). s 



North Carolina. 



Morganton, VII, 20, 1903, (A. P. 



.Morse), 19,3 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 



Austell, VIII, 6, 1910, 1 9 , [Ga. State 



Cln.]. 

 Silver Lake, VIII, 10, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 . 

 Atlanta, VII, 1 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. 

 Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), Buckhead, IV, 16, 1911, 1 cf , 2 9 



1 cf,79. 



Burton, V, 21, 1911, 1,800 feet, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 cf, 2 9. ' 



and 2 other adults, (damaged), [Ga. 

 State Cln.]; VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 19,1 juv. 9 . 



The only specimens we have taken (Buckhead) were beaten from 

 a heavy growth of high weeds growing along a wet depression. 



- e Rehn and Hebard, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XXII, pp. 93 to 95, figs. 5 and 7, 

 (1914). 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



ORTHOPTERA. 



BLATTID^J. 



Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner). 



South Carolina. Macon* VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 9. 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), Warm Springs, 850-1,200 ft., VIII, 



3 J uv - „ . 9-10, 1913, (R.), 1 9 . 



Georgia. gt. Simon's Island, VI, 8, 1911, 1 d", 

 Clayton, 2,000 ft., V, 18-26, 1911, (J. C. [Ga. State Cm.]; IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



Bradley), 2d 1 ; VI, 1909, (W. T. (J- C. Bradley), 1 cf. 



Davis), 1 d", 1 9 • Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 9 . 

 Cornelia, V, 28, 1906, 1 d\ [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 



The males of this species show considerable variation in size, 

 certain individuals examined since the previous minimum measure- 

 ments were given by us 6 being considerably smaller than those 

 cited. The two smallest males seen measure as follows: 



Length Length Greatest Length Greatest 



of of width of of width of 



body, pronotum. pronotum. tegmen. tegmen. 



Key West, Fla 12.2 mm. 3.2 mm. 4.0 mm. 12.6 mm. 3.7 mm. 



St. Simon's Island, Ga 11.8 " 3.2 " 4.1 " 13.2 " 4.0 " 



From an examination of fifty specimens of the species, the speci- 

 mens of minimum size appear to be found only in Florida and the 

 coastal region of Georgia, the individuals from higher elevations being 

 uniformly larger. Specimens of similar size to those found in the 

 more elevated regions of Georgia, Virginia and the Carolinas occur, 

 however, in the area where the minimum individuals are found. 

 All of the present adult individuals have pale femora. 



The above specimens taken by us were found under dead oak 

 leaves (Macon), running on the ground in pine and oak woods (Warm 

 Springs) and under debris in garden (Hebardville). 



Ischnoptera nigricollis Walker. 



Georgia. Florida. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. Sanford, (S. B. Fraser), 2 d\ [Hebard 

 Bradley), 19. Cln.]. 



The exact relationship of this form to /. deropeltiformis is still 

 somewhat problematical. It seems possible that it may be a "salta- 

 tion" from the deropeltiformis stock, developing in Florida and 

 southern Georgia, but apparently nowhere else. Whatever the origin 

 of nigricollis may be, its distinctive coloration almost always permits 

 its ready recognition. 



6 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 415, (1910). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



t 



The Spring Creek record is the first exact one for the species from 

 Georgia. 



Ischnoptera johnsoni Rehn. 



Virginia. Georgia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Rabun Count v, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 H.), 1 <?, 3 9. Davis), 2 9. 



Atlanta, VI, 23, 1910, 1 d\ [Ga. 

 Alabama. State On.]. 



Pvriton, Clay County, (H. G. Hub- St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 

 'bard), 1 o\ [U. S. N. M.]. (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



The remarks previously made by us 7 on the apparent decrease 

 in size southward in specimens of this species are not substantiated 

 by the more extensive series now available, the lack of sufficient 

 material in 1910, there suggested as a possibility, accounting for our 

 change of view. 



The species was taken from under damp dead leaves on the edge 

 of forest (Fredericksburg) and among dry leaves under live oaks 

 (St. Simon's Island). 



Ischnoptera pensylvanica pensylvanica (De Geer). 



Fredericksburg, Virginia, VII, 20, 1913, Clayton, Georgia, 2,000 ft,, V, 18-26, 

 (R. & H.), 1 9 . 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 2 o* ; VI, 1909, 



Pennington Gap, Va., 19, [M- C. Z.]. (W. T. Davis), 2 9 . 



Spartanburg, South Carolina, VIII, 6, 

 1913, (R. &H.),19,o juv. 



The evidence of the present collections strengthens our previously 

 formed conclusion regarding the distribution of this species and of 

 I. divisa. Apparently the areas occupied by the two are quite 

 distinct, only localities along the line of impingement being repre- 

 sented by both forms. The two Clayton males and one female 

 from the same locality are very deeply colored, but do not appre- 

 ciably approach /. pensylvanica incequalis. 



The above-listed material taken by us was found under signs on 

 trees (white oaks at Fredericksburg). 



Ischnoptera divisa Saussure and Zehntner. 



Virginia. Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), l J uv ' 



20 9, 11 juv., 4 oothecae. Georgia. 



North Carolina. ^I'j™' ^ m3 ' ^ & H °' 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 

 2 juv. 



The present form is clearly a derivative of the I. pensylvanica 

 stock, representing an adaptation of that type in the lower country 



7 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 419, (1910). 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of the southeastern States as I. pensylvanica incequalis is in the 

 central States. The difference is, however, that positive inter- 

 gradation is known to exist between pensylvanica and p. incequalis, 

 while divisa and pensylvanica do not intergrade as far as known, 

 both occurring in typical condition at localities where the ranges 

 meet. The northern and western limit of the known range of divisa 

 in the southeastern States can be represented by a line extending from 

 Anglesea, Cape May County, New Jersey, to Plummer's Island, Mary- 

 land, thence to Augusta and Albany, Georgia, and finally to Rives in 

 northwestern Tennessee. West of the Mississippi we know nothing 

 of the species beyond the North Mexico record of Saussure and 

 Zehntner. Apparently this form trespasses but little into the Pied- 

 mont region of the southeastern States and is a distinctly coastal type. 



The tegminal characters of the female of this species, previously 

 described by us, are typically represented in all the adult material, 

 although a few specimens have the tegminal apices more rounded 

 than in others. In all, however, the general form of the tegmina is 

 sublanceolate, and the three to five distal segments of the abdomen 

 are always exposed. The pronotal disk varies considerably in depth 

 of coloration in the Petersburg series, being hardly at all infuscate 

 in some specimens and again as solidly so as in pensylvanica in 

 others. The division of the disk color is more clearly marked in 

 some of the young than in the adults, and is obsolete in a large 

 proportion of the specimens. All of the adult specimens are within 

 the measurement extremes previously given by us. 8 



All of the above series were taken from under signs, on long-leaf 

 pine (Albany), short-leaf pine and sweet gum (Augusta) and red 

 oak and short-leaf pine (Petersburg) . At the latter locality immature 

 individuals were about as plentiful as adults; only one adult was 

 found on pine, the species, at that place at least, preferring the 

 red oak. 



Ischnoptera couloniana Saussure. 



North Carolina. South Carolina. 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), Spartanburg, VIII, 6. 1913, (H.), 2 9 . 



19. Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



19,ljuv. Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 juv. 



1 juv. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 9 juv. 



8 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 432, (1910). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Georgia. Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



^ State OnT S P rins Creek ' VI1 ' 1G ~ 29 ' 1912 > 



StSe MountS'viII, 16, 1913, (J. C. < J - C " Bradle ^ * *> 2 » ■ 



Bradlev), 19. ™ ., 



Egypt, (W. H. Finn), 19, [U. S. tlorida. 



X. M.]. Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



o 



29. 



The Spring Creek male has the disk of the pronotum decidedly 

 rufescent mesad and moderately infuscate laterad, well contrasted 

 with the clear ochraceous lateral sections of the pronotum. The 

 range of the species is now known to extend northward as far as 

 Anglesea, New Jersey (1 c? ; Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. Cln.), its limits in 

 that direction being much the same as those of /. divisa, but in the 

 southeastern States it apparently ranges higher, crossing the Pied- 

 mont region and entering the mountainous section (Clayton, Georgia, 

 Sulphur Springs and Tryon, North Carolina). 



The specimens listed above secured by the authors were taken 

 from under the bark of dead short-leaf pine (Goldsboro and Florence) 

 and sweet gum logs and stumps (Lake Waccamaw) and from under 

 signs on red oak (Charlotte). 



Ischnoptera uhleriana uhleriana Saussure. 



Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), Clayton, Georgia, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, 

 2 cf, 2 9 . 1909, (W. T. Davis), 2 d>. 



The Clayton specimens are typical uhleriana and the locality is 

 the most southern from which true uhleriana is known. This is also 

 the first record of typical uhleriana from Georgia. The Arlington 

 individuals were taken at night on road and resting on woods foliage. 



Ischnoptera uhleriana fulvescens Saussure and Zehntner. 



South Carolina. Honey Island, June 1, 1912, (J. C. 



Cotobia, VII, 28, 1918. (E. 4 H.), B 5g;^K &,e y ), 1 9 



-I- ¥ . o : r* l. itt t oo ■xttt ic on 



Georgia. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 2 9,1 juv. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, VII, 16-29, 

 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d\ 1 9 . 



Florida. 



Vienna, VI, 5 1910 1 d \ [Ga St .Cln ]. rtega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 

 Brunswick, \ III, 30, 1911, (R. & H.), i o 



c , l &• , t i ,-ttt oo ,«,, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, H ) x ^ 59 



R -!?. ,A tWvtvtt 1010 ,t r Pablo' Beach, IX, 5, 1913, (W. T. 

 Billys Island, M-\ II, 1912, (J. C. Davis) 2 9 2 juv. 



Bradley), 1 cf, 2 juv. 



The personally collected material listed above was secured from 

 under bark of a pine log (Brunswick), among dead leaves under 

 9 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



live oaks (St. Simon's Island), under same on edge of oak and short 

 leaf -pine woods (Macon) and from under refuse (Atlantic Beach). 



Ischnoptera borealis Brunner. 



Goldsboro, North Carolina. VII, 25, Rabun County, VII, 1910. (W. T. 



1913 (R & H ) 2 9 JDavis), 3 9 . 



' { j ' V - Atlanta, VII, 31, 1910, 1 d\ [Ga. St. 



Georgia. Cln.]. 



Clayton, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, 1909, 

 (W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 



These records are the first for the species from Georgia. At 

 Goldsboro it was found under debris in dead short-leaf pine needles. 



Ischnoptera bolliana Saussure and Zehntner. 



Clayton, Georgia, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, Rabun County, Ga., VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 1909, (W. T. Davis), 1 o\ Davis), 1 9 . 



Ischnoptera insolita Rehn and Hebard. 



Spartanburg, South Carolina, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 9 . 



This specimen is perfectly typical of this very rare and little-known 

 species. The tegmina surpass the apex of the abdomen by nearly 

 the pronotal length. Tryon, North Carolina and Spartanburg are 

 the only localities east of the Appalachians at which the species 

 has been taken. The present specimen was secured from under a 

 sign on a tree. 



Blattella germanica (Linnaeus). 



Atlanta, Georgia, IX, 5, 1910, I'd 1 , Waycross, Georgia, IX, 10, 1910, 19, 

 [Ga. St. Cln.]. " [Ga. St. Cln.]. 



Ceratinoptera diaphana (Fabricius). 



Billy's Island, Georgia, VII, 1912, Newberry, Florida, XI, 19, 1911, (W. T. 



(J. C. Bradlev), 1 juv. 9 . Davis), 1 juv.d% 1 juv. 9 . 



Flovd's Island, *Ga., XII, 27-30, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 19. 



The immature specimens are easily determinable, as the distinctive 

 color pattern of the young of this species makes recognition certain. 

 The Billy's Island individual is much more immature than the others, 

 being but little more than half their size. 



These records are the most northern ones for this beautiful type, 

 which was previously known from within the United States only 

 from Gainesville, Key West and Long Key, Florida. 



Cariblatta lutea lutea (Saussure and Zehntner). 



North Carolina. Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911. (R. & H.) r 



1 juv. 

 Roanoke Island, VII, 25, (G. P. Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 Englehardt), 1 9, [B. I.]. 1 juv. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



Georgia. St. Simon's Island, IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 9 . 



\\ arm Springs, \ III, 9-10, 1913, (R.), Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 



1 9 , 1 juv. i e y) 2 9 . 



Thompson's Mills, (H. A. Allard), Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



1 <?, ljuv. 9,[U. S. X. M.]. (R.&H.), 19. 



Macon, VII, 31, 1913, (R. & H.), 19. * , 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & II.), 1 9 . Florida. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 1 c?,3 9 r 



Bradley), 3 <?, 5 9 . [Hebard Cln.]. 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. &■ H.), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



19. H.), 1 juv. d\ 



The adults in this series exhibit considerable variation in the 

 length of the tegmina. Warm Springs is the highest elevation at 

 which this species has been taken. 



The insect was found hiding under dead oak leaves (Fayetteville 

 and Macon), under dead needles in long-leaf pine woods (Albany), 

 in wire grass (Suwannee Creek), under refuse (Atlantic Beach) and 

 was beaten from undergrowth in pine and oak woods (Warm Springs) . 



Eurycotis floridana (Walker). 



Georgia. Florida. 



St. Simon's Island, IX-X, 1910, Fernandina, (W. H. Finn), 19, 



[Ga. St. Cln.]; VIII, 30, 1911, (R. & [U. S. X. M.]. 



H.), 1 cf, 3 9, 1 juv. Jacksonville, XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. 



Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. Davis), 1 tf\ 1 juv. 



Bradley), 19. Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



St. Marys, III, 6 to IV, 18, 1896, 1 d\ 1 9, 5 juv. 



(O. Bangs), 2 d\ [M. C. Z.]. Inverness, Citrus County, 1892, (C. M. 



Weed), 1 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. 



The three Georgia records are the first from that State for the species, 

 these also constituting the most northern points from which the 

 species is known. In some of the young the pale lateral margins 

 of the pronotum and mesonotum are decided, but in all of the adults 

 these areas are of the general color. 



The present authors found the species under the dead bark of a 

 live oak tree on St. Simon's Island, while the Jacksonville specimens 

 are labelled "in log." 



Blatta orientalis Linnaeus. 



Washington, District of Columbia, Atlanta, Georgia, VII, 7, 1910, VIII, 

 (Caudell; Pratt), 1 <?, 19, [U. S. 30, 1913, 2 <?, 19, [Ga. St. Cln.]. 



X. M.]. 



Periplaneta americana (Linnaeus). 



Atlanta, Georgia, XI, 6, 1909, 1 d% [Ga. St. Cln.]. 



Periplaneta australasiae (Fabricius). 



Fernandina, Florida, (W. H. Finn), 1 Enterprise, Fla., V, 16, 1 juv., [U. S. 

 juv., [U. S. X. M.]. X. M.]. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Periplaneta brunnea Burmeister. 



Georgia. Florida. 



Brunswick, VIII, 31, 1911, (R. & H.), Fernandina, (W. H. Finn), 1 d 1 , 



2 9. [U. S. N. M.]. 



Billv's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 9 , 



lev), 1 9 . [Hebard Cln.]; IX, 28, 1913, (W. T. 



Thomasville, I, 3, 1908, (H.), 3d 1 , Davis), 1 9 . 



2 9,3 juv. 



• 



All of these specimens belong to " var. a. " of Saussure and Zehntner, 

 except the Billy's Island female, which approaches "var. c. " There 

 is, however, some variation in the depth of the castaneous general 

 coloring in several of the Thomasville specimens, this also being 

 present in series from other localities in the collections at hand, and 

 is not due to geographic or sexual difference. 



The northern limit of distribution of the present species as now 

 known is marked by Bainbridge, Thomasville, Billy's Island and 

 Brunswick, Georgia, but doubtless it is being constantly extended 

 northward by coastwise shipping. 



At Brunswick we found this form running on the hotel veranda 

 and at Thomasville it was taken from under signs on oaks. 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis (Linnaeus). 



Jacksonville, Florida, (T. J. Priddey), New Smyrna, Fla., Ill, 1905, (A. N. 



1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. Caudell; bred, adult XI, 1905), 1 9 , 



Cedar Keys, Fla., (E. Palmer), 1 juv. [U. S. N. M.]. 



[M. C. Z.]. 



Chorisoneura texensis Saussure and Zehntner. 



1904. Chorisoneura plocea Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 164. [Coast of South 

 Carolina.] 



North Carolina. Florida. 



Tryon, VI, 19, 2 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



o • H.), 1 cf, 19. 



„ „. , , L,e ° r 9 m - tt Orlando, VI, 7, 1907, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 St. Simon's Island, IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 

 (J. C.Bradley), 3 d\ 2 9 . 



Texan series compared with sixteen specimens now before us from 

 the southeastern United States show plocea to be a synonym 

 of texensis. Rehn, in the absence of Texan material, was led, by 

 ambiguity in the description of texensis and confusion hi the names 

 of the tegminal veins, to suppose the specimen before him to be 

 different. 



The above specimens were taken at light (Tryon), in nests of 

 webworm (Orlando) and beaten from bushes of bayberry, Myrica 

 cerifera, growing in and along the edge of pine woods (Atlantic 

 Beach). 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



121 



The Tryon record is the most northern as well as the most elevated 

 for the species. 



Cryptocercus punctulatus Scudder. 



Maryland. 



Meadow Mountain, Garrett County, 

 VIII, 1911, (W. Stone), 3 adults, 

 2 juv., [A. N. S. P.]. 



Virginia. 



Hint on, (W. P. Hay), 1 adult, [U. S. 



X. M.]. 

 Stone Mountain, (Pollock), 1 adult, 



[U. S. N. M.|. 

 Cumberland Mountains, Lee County, 



VIII, 1879, (H. G. Hubbard), 



1 adult, [M. C. Z.]. 



Georgia. 



Black Rock Mountain, 3,000 feet, V, 

 20-25, 1911, 1 juv., [Ga. St. Cln.]. 



Wilson Gap, Mountain City, VIII, 22, 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 6 aduli 



Clayton, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI. 1909, 

 (W. T. Davis), 4 adults, 2 juv. 



North Carolina. 



Pisgah Forest, VIII, 12, 1908,2 adults, 



1 juv., [U. S. N. M]. 

 Blowing Rock, VII, 19, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 5 adults, 1 juv.: VIII, 13, 



(G. P. Englehardt), 6 adults, [B. I.]. 

 Linville, VII, 18, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 adult, 10 juv. 

 Balsam, VII, 23, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 adult. 



The present records aid very materially in mapping the areal and 

 vertical distribution of this very interesting and peculiar genus and 

 species. The known data from the southeastern States show that it 

 descends as low as from 700 to 1,500 feet (vicinity of Rome, Georgia), 

 while it has been taken as high as 5,500 feet (Old Baldy Mountain, 

 North Carolina). 



MANTIDJE. 



Stagmomantis Carolina (Johansson}. 



1896. Bactromantis virga Scudder, Can. Ent., XXVIII, p. 213. [San- 

 ford, Florida.] 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 2 juv. cf. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 • 

 Newport News, IX, 16, 1907, (B. 



Long), 19, [A. N. S. P.]. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cT. 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. d\ 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



69. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. 9 . 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2o , ,19,l juv. 9. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 cf . 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. A: 



H.), 1 juv. 9. 



South Carolina. 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 d\ 



19,1 juv. d", 2 juv. 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, {R. & H.), 



1 juv. o\ 2 juv. 9. 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



5 juv. d\ 3 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX, -4, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 c? 



29. 



Georgia. 



Cornelia, VII, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 



1 juv. o 71 • 



Stone Mountain vie., VIII. 3, 1913, 



(R. A: H.), 1 juv. d>. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. <fe H.), 



2 juv. d". 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 1 juv. 9 . 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 3 



3 juv. 9- juv. cf, 2 juv. 9. 



Savannah, (A. Oemler),l 9, [U.S.N.M.]. _, ., 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), Florida. 



1 juv. 9. Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 1 cf, 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 19, [Hebard Cln.]; VIII, 25, 1911, 



juv. 9 . (R- & H.), 1 juv. 9 ; IX, 5-27, 1913, 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 1 cf . (W. T. Davis), 3 9,2 juv. 9 . 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



(R. & H.), 19,1 juv. C?. H.), 2 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 cf . Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 1 juv. c?. 



(R. &H.), 1 cf, 1 9. Sanford, (S. B. Frazer), 1 juv. cf, 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, type of Bactromantis virga Scudder, 



• (R. & H.), 1 juv. 9 . [Scudder Cln.]. 



It is surprising to find the unique type of Scudder's Bactromantis 

 virga merely a large immature individual of the present species and 

 of the usual type of coloration for its sex. There is no question 

 but that the specimen is Scudder's type, for it bears his label and 

 agrees perfectly with his description in size and coloration. The 

 glaring misstatement in the original description, "apterous female." 

 can only be attributed to carelessness involving the consequent 

 erection of another synonym. The specimen is indeed "apterous," 

 but the wing pads may be seen readily with the naked eye and the 

 most casual examination of the apex of the abdomen shows that it 

 is not a female. As virga is the type by monotypy of the genus 

 Bactromantis, that genus falls in the synonymy under Stagmomantis. 



In the above series we find the majority of immature males dark 

 in general coloration, but having the median and caudal limbs green, 

 only two immature examples of this sex are wholly green or greenish. 

 All of the immature females are of this latter phase of coloration. 



Gonatista grisea (Fabricius). 



Morris Island, Charleston Harbor, Fort George, Florida, (R. S. Turner), 



South Carolina, 1 cf , [Scudder Cln.]. 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Savannah, Georgia, (A. Oemler), 19, McDonald, Fla., IX, 6, 1905, (C. H. 



[U. S. N. M.]. Baker), 1 juv. 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



The specimen from McDonald was taken on a long-leaf pine. 

 The present species is found in moderate numbers throughout the 

 subtropical region of southern Florida and to a much less degree in 

 the Sabalian or Basic Austral zone of the southeastern United States; 

 records to the north of the limits of this zone are surely those of indi- 

 viduals accidentally introduced. 



Oligonyx scudderi Saussure. 



1877. Oligonyx uhleri Stal, Bih. till K. Svensk. Vet. Akad. Handl., IV, No. 

 10, p. 66. [Louisiana.] 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



South Carolina. Warm Springs, 900 feet, VIII, 10, 1913, 



Yemaasee, IX, 4, 1911, (H.), 1 juv. <f . X& Vffi f/ 1913, (R. <k H.), 1 9 . 



Gfo^". Waveross, VIII, 11, 1903, (A. P. 



Dalton, 1,200 feet, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), Morse), 1 juv. 9 . 



1, lost. „. ., 



Sharp Mountain, 1,900 feet, VIII, 6, tlonda. 



1913, (R.)> 1 juv. d\ Crescent City, 1 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), Punta Gorda, XI, 14, 1911, 1 cf, 



I juv. 9. [Davis CIn.]. 



A study of the literature on the genus Oligonyx has brought to 

 light several interesting features. In 1870, Saussure briefly de- 

 scribed Oligonyx scudderi, 9 giving North America as the locality; 

 this is explained by his remark the following year 10 under this species: 

 "Habite. Probablement l'Amerique meridionale (Etiquetee de 

 Georgie, sans doute par erreur)." Later knowledge of the species' 

 distribution shows conclusively that Saussure's type was very prob- 

 ably correctly labelled. In 1877, Stal recorded as this species speci- 

 mens from Texas, which belong to the western type discussed below, 

 and described Oligonyx uhleri from Louisiana as new, stating that 

 this species is "extremely near scudderi, something larger, tegmina 

 and wings more obscure, distinctly infuscated, limbs longer." None 

 of these characters are of sufficient importance in this insect to be con- 

 sidered of specific value, for the size and limb length are shown to be 

 variable in the series of 43 adult males before us, and the individuals 

 from the dryer western localities differ only from eastern examples 

 in having the tegmina and wings less darkened and in a few other 

 minor respects. Stal named the more eastern representative, and 

 hence his name falls as an absolute synonym of O. scudderi. Saussure 

 and Zehntner have described representatives from Dallas, Texas, 

 and Northern Mexico as Oligonyx bollianus, 11 hence the western 

 type, if sufficiently distinct to warrant racial separation, would be 

 called O. scudderi bollianus S. and Z. 



The species was found running on bare ground (Dalton, Sharp 

 Mountain), on ground in pine and oak woods (Warm Springs), 

 in oak woods (Buckhead), in swampy spot in short-leaf pine woods 

 (Yemassee) and was beaten from wire grass and undergrowth of 

 long-leaf pine woods (Albany). 



9 Mitt. Sclav. Eni. Gesellsch., Ill, p. 239, (1870). 

 "Mem. VHist. Nat. Mex., Mant. Amer., p. 121, (1871). 



II Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 173, (1894). 




124 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Thesprotia graminis (Scudder). 

 Georgia. 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. &H.),2 9, 1 juv. 9. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 1 cf, 3 9. 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IX, 28, 1913, XI, 3, 1911, 



(W. T. Davis), 3 juv. cf ; VIII, 25, 



1911, (R. & H.), 1 9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 1 cf, 4 9. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 10, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 cf , 3 juv.; VIII, 26, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 1 cf, 19. 

 Crescent City, 1 cf, 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Newberry, XI, 18, 1911, (\Y. T. Davis), 



19. 



The largest female before us, 52.4 mm. in length, is from Atlantic 

 Beach. This species is found generally distributed, but never in 

 numbers, in the undergrowth of the pine forests of Georgia and 

 Florida in decided Sabalian (see preface) surroundings. Isle of Hope 

 is the most northern locality recorded for the species, but it will 

 doubtless be found in southern South Carolina and as far northwest- 

 ward in Georgia as the limit of the Sabalian element. The male 

 from Live Oak was taken when flying through the pine woods, its 

 feeble fluttering flight resembling that of a myrmelion. At Atlantic 

 Beach several specimens were found in a tangle of raspberry vines and 

 other plants, under cabbage palmettoes in the "hammock." 



PHASMID^] 

 Diapheromera femorata (Say). 



Virginia. 

 Great Falls, IX, 28, 1913, (C. T 



Greene), 2 cf, 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 cf, 2 juv. 9. 



North Carolina. 



Topton, VIII, 21, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 cf. 



South Carolina. 



Greenville, 1887, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P..]. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf . 



Georgia. 



Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



2 juv. cf . 



Toccoa, VIII, 4, 1913, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 2 juv. 9 . 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. 

 Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 4 juv. cf , 



3 juv. 9 . 

 Sand Mountain, VIII, 26, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 cf , 1 juv. 9. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 . 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 3 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9, 1913, (R.), 



2 juv. 9. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 juv. cf, 2 juv. 9. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 cf , 



2 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9. 

 Lakeland, Decatur County, 1 cf , [Ga. 



St. Cln.]. 



Specimens from southern Georgia are very large, the largest male 

 (Albany) is 84.5 mm. in length; however, no racial characters exist. 

 The species has not been taken south of the fall line in the south- 

 eastern United States until extreme western Georgia and north- 




1916.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



western Florida is reached. The material recorded by us from the 

 above localities was all taken in the undergrowth of pine and oak 

 woods. 



Manomera tenuescens (Scudder). 



1913. Manomera orthostylus Caudell, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XLIV, p. 612, 

 fig. 27. [Orlando, Florida.] 



North Carolina. Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & II 



^'i'juv^ 1 ' ? ' 1903 ' (A ' P ' MOTSe) ' Cumberland Island. VIII, 31, 1911, 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), (B " & H-) ' 10 ^ ' 5 9- - 



3 9. Florida. 



S "" lh ' '" r " h ""- Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Denmark, VIII, 15, 1903, (A. P. 19. 



Morse), 19. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Georgia. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R.), 1 9 . 



Series before us of adults and immature examples of both this 

 species and M. brachypyga, 12 prove that M. orthostylus of Caudell, 

 the unique type of which is before us, is an absolute synonym of the 

 present insect, based on a male in the instar preceding maturity. 

 The relative proportions of the distal abdominal segments in both 

 sexes, which readily separate adults of tenuescens and brachypyga, 

 as readily separate immature individuals of the two species. Until 

 the adult condition is reached, the male cerci of both species are 

 straight, pilose and delicate in structure; those of tenuescens being 

 decidedly shorter than the disto-dorsal abdominal segment and 

 those of brachypyga slightly longer than that segment. 



In the clog fennel, Eupatorium compositifolium Walt., at" Cumber- 

 land Island, a climbing vine, Bradburya virginiana (L.) Kuntze, was 

 frequently encountered; the elongate green pods of this vine, resting 

 in the dog fennel, bore a remarkable resemblance to the bodies of 

 the female walking-sticks there found. 



The species is decidedly a Lower Austral and Sabalian type, 

 previously known only from Florida. The material before us was 

 found about a sink hole surrounded by a few gum trees in low weeds 

 and plants and scant grasses (Winter Park), in bunch grass in a sandy 

 scrub-oak area just above the fall line (Augusta), on dark wet ground 

 covered with low swamp plants (Homerville), in dog fennel in long- 

 leaf pine woods (Cumberland Island, Jacksonville) and in the low 

 undergrowth of the long-leaf pine woods (Live Oak). 



12 Proc. Acad.'Xat. Sci. Piiila., 1914, p. 384, figs. 1 to 4, (1914). 




126 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April. 



Anisomorpha buprestoides (Stoll). 

 South Carolina. 



Yernassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 1 o\ 1 9, 2 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 



19. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 



juv. 9 . 

 Billy's Island, V, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 



19; VI, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 



1 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9 ; IX, 1-5, 1913. 



(J. C. Bradley), 3 <f, 4 9 ; XII, 20, 



1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. cf . 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 cf , 



3 juv. cf, 13 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IX, 7, XI, 3, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 5^,8 9. 

 Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



1 cf,19. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 80 cf, 62 9, 15 juv. 9 . 

 St. Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 cf , 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Eustis, III, 1892, (H. J. Webber), 



1 cf, 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Volusia County, 1 cf, 19, [A. N. 



S. P.]. 

 Warrington, VIII, 4, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 2 cf, 1 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Alabama. 



Mobile, (Dr. Corson, Dr. Jackson), 



1 cf, 2 9, [A. N.S. P.]. 



The present species is peculiar to the Sabalian and Tropical Zones 

 of the southeastern United States where it is found, at times in 

 large numbers, in the forest undergrowth. The large series from 

 Atlantic Beach was taken in such surroundings on the edge of a 

 swamp; the entire series was found collected in two clusters in tall 

 weeds, the majority of the specimens in coitu; we have a pair from 

 this series still connected, of which the female is in the instar preceding 

 maturity. Immature individuals were found locally numerous in 

 tall weeds in the long-leaf pine woods along the river at Albany. 



The most northern, as well as the most western, definite records 

 for the species are given above. 



Anisomorpha ferruginea (Beauvois). 



South Carolina. 

 Aiken, 1 cf , [M. C. ZJ. 



Georgia. 



Wilson Gap, Mountain City, VIII, 

 22, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 12 cf , 1 9 , 

 9 juv. 9. 



Tallulah, VIII, 1887, 2 cf, 1 9, [U. S. 

 N. M. and Hebard Cln.l. 



Toccoa, VIII, 5, 1913, (H.), 1 juv. <f . 



Jasper, VII, 25, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 cf . 

 Stone Mountain, VII, 28, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 juv. cf . 

 Warm Springs, 850-1,200 feet, VIII, 



9-10, 1913, (R.), 2 cf , 2 juv. cf , 2 



juv. 9 . 



Louisiana. 



Arcadia, Bienville Parish, X, 15, 1885, 

 (L. Johnson), 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



The much smaller size, different facies, different and less striking 

 coloration and somewhat more slender and straighter limbs readily 

 separate adults of this species from adults of A. buprestoides; the 

 young of that species are, however, frequently obscurely colored 

 and often in these stages closely resemble the present insect. The 

 difficulty in ascertaining whether a specimen is adult increases the 




1916. 1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



perplexities of the student, and the records of ferruginea from Florida 

 are either due to a misconception of the present species or are 

 referable to the young of A. buprestoides. 



Caudell, in his paper on the Walkingsticks of the United States, 13 

 has given, among other State records, Florida and Pennsylvania for 

 the present insect. The first of these records applies to A. bupres- 

 toides, while the second is due to a mistake caused by a "Tallulah, 

 Ga.," label appearing to be "Tallulah, Pa." 



The present authors in an earlier study of A. buprestoides, 1 * con- 

 fused nearly mature and differently colored specimens of that species 

 with the present insect; at that time A. ferruginea was not repre- 

 sented in their collections, its definite distribution was quite unknown 

 and the early descriptions of the two species were and are by no 

 means convincing. 



The distribution of A. ferruginea apparently extends from just 

 north of the Ohio River south over the Mississippi Valley to the 

 Gulf States, west to extreme southeastern Nebraska and eastward 

 through the Appalachians in Virginia and in the high portions of 

 the Carolinas and Georgia. 



The series taken at Wilson Gap was found under the bark of a 

 single log. 



AORIDID^]. 



On the Races of Xomotettix cristatus (Scudder). 



A ^tudy of the series of over four hundred and fifty-eight specimens 

 of the present species before us from the eastern United States and 

 Canada offers convincing proof that but one known species of 

 Nomotettix exists in this portion of North America. This species is 

 divided into five geographic races which are typical over certain 

 areas, but which intergrade so gradually that series of specimens from 

 numerous localities between those where the typical forms are found 

 show intermediates of every degree. The following key gives char- 

 acters which are by no means decided ; it attempts to define racial 

 characters as found in typical series. 



A. — Vertex moderately projecting in front of eyes, angular excava- 

 tion beneath it moderately deep in lateral aspect. 

 (Vertex in lateral aspect blunt and very broadly 

 rotundato-acute-angulate, dorsal surface of head weakly 



13 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVI, p. 882, (1903). 

 14 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 284, (1907). 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



fossulate on either side of median carina of vertex which 

 is weakly elevated; eyes prominent; margins of median 

 femora very weakly sinuate; pronotum rugoso-scabrous, 

 cephalic margin of dorsum weakly produced over head, 

 median carina with height above humeral angles much 

 as in N. c. floridanus; antennae shorter than in the other 



races.) Nomotettix cristatus borealis E. M. Walker. 



A A. — Vertex strongly projecting in front of eyes, angular excavation 

 beneath it very deep in lateral aspect. 

 B.- — Vertex in lateral aspect broadly rotundato-acute-angulate, 

 dorsal surface of head moderately fossulate on either 

 side of median carina of vertex which is strongly 

 elevated; eyes moderately prominent; margins of 

 median femora with scarcely any sinuation; prono- 

 tum minutely scabrous. 

 C. — Pronotum with median carina less compressed, 

 moderately arcuate with that portion between 

 the humeral angles often distinctly flattened, 

 height above humeral angles 1.2 to 1.7 mm., 15 

 cephalic margin of dorsum moderately produced 

 over head with sides straight or weakly concave. 

 Nomotettix cristatus cristatus (Scudder). 

 CC— Pronotum with median carina strongly compressed, 

 strongly and usually evenly arcuate, height 

 above humeral angles 1.6 to 2 mm., cephalic 

 margin of dorsum more strongly produced over 

 head with sides more or less strongly concave. 

 Nomotettix cristatus compressus Morse. 

 BB. — Vertex in lateral aspect more sharply rotundato-acute- 

 angulate, dorsal surface of head more strongly 

 fossulate on either side of median carina of vertex 

 which is but moderately elevated; eyes very promi- 

 nent; margins of median femora weakly sinuate; 

 pronotum rugoso-scabrous. 

 C. — Other pronotal characters (see C and CC under B) 

 nearly intermediate between those of A r . c. crista- 

 tus and N. c. compressus, height of median carina 



above humeral angles 1.3 to 1.8 mm 



Nomotettix cristatus arcuatus Hancock. 



CC. — Other pronotal characters (see parentheses under A) 



of the V. c. borealis type, height of median carina 



above humeral angles 1. to 1.4 mm. 16 (The 



rugoso-scabrous condition of the pronotum more 



16 The males of the present species are usually somewhat smaller than the 

 females and, as would be expected, the majority of the sex measure nearer the 

 minimum of the dimension here given than do the females. 



16 The types of this race, from Port Orange and Enterprise, Florida, do not repre- 

 sent the extreme development and show decided tendencies toward A", c. arcuatus 

 Hancock. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



decided than in N. c. arcuatus, much as in N. c. 



borealis.) 



Nomotettix cristatus fioridanus Hancock. 



The race of the Middle States, N. c. compressus, shows the greatest 

 development of the vertex and its median carina, the median carina 

 of the pronotum, and the production of the cephalic margin of the 

 pronotum. The two races in distribution furthest removed from this 

 insect, .V. c. borealis in the north and N. c. floridanus in the south, 

 show the greatest divergence from this type, which divergence has 

 taken place along parallel lines in a number of characters (pronotal and 

 femoral) but in others separates these two races most widely of all. 



Nomotettix cristatus borealis E. M. Walker. 



Through Dr. Walker's great kindness, we have before us the type 

 (his figured 9 , here selected) and paratype ( 9 ) of this insect, the 

 only specimens known, which were taken at Diamond Lake, Tema- 

 gami District, Ontario, September 7, 1903, by Dr. Walker and were 

 described most satisfactorily by him. 17 



The difference given in the pronotal arcuation when compared 

 with -V. c. cristatus is of no value as a character, that insect exhibiting 

 frequently such irregularity as described. The present race, however, 

 is the most strongly denned and, as Dr. Walker suggests, the northern- 

 most of the races of the present species. 



Nomotettix cristatus cristatus (Scudder). 



1862. Batrachidea carinata Scudder, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 479. 

 [Massachusetts.] 



Ontario. Blue Hill, Suffolk Countv, (P. W. 



Go Home Bay, VI, 1908, (E. M. Whiting), 6 d\ 5 9 , [A. X. S. P. and 



Walker), 2 9, [Univ. Toronto Cln.]. , Hebard Clns.]. 



Mt. Holyoke, VI, 24, 1898, (F. Knab), 



New Hampshire. 1 cf, [U.S. X. M.]. 



Warren, (P. \V. Whiting), 4 d% 35 9, 1 Marion, VIII, 30, 1905, (H.), 19, 1 



juv. 9, [A. X.S. P. and Hebard Clns.]. J»v. o". 



Connecticut. 

 Massachusetts. 



HeLd Ch^.] 9 ' [A " N ' ^ R and ^w Haven, VI, 1, 1910, (H.), 1 *. 



North Saugus, VI, 16, 1906, (E. A. N y , 



Back), 2^19,[U. S. X. M.]. New * ork - 



Wellesley, (P. W. Whiting), 7 d\ 3 9, Forrest Park, L. I., VI, 15, 1902, 1 d\ 



[A. N. S. P. and Hebard Clns.]. [Hebard Cln.]. 



Forest Hills, V, 10 and 11, 1912 and Mosholu, VI, 22, 1902, 1 <f , [Hebard 



1913, (P. W. Whiting), Id", 19, Cln.]. 



[A. N. S. P. and Hebard Clns.]. 



17 Can. Ent., XLI, p. 173, pi. 7, figs. 1 and la, (1909). 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



New Jersey. . Laanna, Pike County, VIII, 31, 1906, 



lakehurst V 9fi ions 1 iuv <? (B. Long), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. (Long 



ihk J'ri l ' pronotum.) 



WhSgs IX I ;- 1 28, 1906, (B. Long), T f H ^ a ™ a ' 2 ' 000 feet > IX ' l ~ 3 > 1903 > 

 Pemberlon N V S 2 P 1913, (H. B. Scam- *%™£%> J\f 1907 ' ( B ' L °^> 



StaSrk 2 F'olge S Vni M -2 ] 6-31, 1907, T ^f'S ? ' * ** * ? ' ^ ^ ^ 



(R.), 19,1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9 ; IX, 16, ' ,J ' 



1905 (EL), 5^,49; IX, 31, 1908, Maryland. 



(R.), 1 & , 1 juv. 9. tf 



Parkdale, VII, 30, 1911, (R. & H.), Jennings, 2,000 feet, middle of VIII, 



1 cf. 1911, (W. Stone), 1 juv. 9, [A. N. 



Da Costa, V, 17, 1903, (E. Daecke,) S. P.]. 



1 cf, [Hebard Cln.]. NoHh CaroUna _ 



Pennsylvania. Mount Pisgah, 4,500 feet, X, 1, 1904, 



South Sterling, IX, 17, 1906, (B. (H.), 1 juv. 9. 



Long), 1 <?, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Scudder's name carinata is based upon the form of the present 

 insect having a long pronotum. 



This insect, the genotype of Nomotettix, is typical in Massachu- 

 setts; 18 south of that State individuals show a tendency toward 

 N. c. compressus, which in the series recorded above is strongest in 

 the specimens from New Jersey. 19 The specimens from Go Home 

 Bay, Ontario, are very similar to those from Lyme, Connecticut, 

 neither of which series is perfectly typical. 



We have found the species in the undergrowth of the pine barrens 

 of New Jersey, but have never taken it in numbers, possibly because 

 no examinations of this region have been made in June, during 

 which month N. c. compressus reaches its greatest abundance on 

 the barren serpentine outcrops near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 



Nomotettix cristatus compressus,Morse. 



1903. Nomotettix . cristatus atavus Blatchley, Orth. of Indiana, p. 219. 

 [No locality given.] 



New Jersey. Pennsylvania. 



Clementon, V, 6, 1905, 19, [A. N. Dauphin, VII, 4, Id 1 , 29, (Pa. St. 



S. P.]. Dept, Zool. Cln.]. 



North Woodbury, IX, 18, 1905, Rockville, (Fort Hunter P. O.), X, 



(H. L. Viereck), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 16, 19, [Pa. St. Dept. Zool. Cln.]. 



18 We have a typical series of this insect from numerous Massachusetts localities 

 (see above); other previously recorded material before us from New Haven, 

 Connecticut, and Atsion, New Jersey, shows tendencies toward N. e. compressus 

 Morse. 



19 In fact, although the series recorded above from Stafford's Forge, New Jersey, 

 certainly belongs here, as the majority of the specimens show much the closer 

 affinity to the present insect, there are two females in the series which are inter- 

 mediates individually closer to N. c. compressus Morse. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Enola, V, 5, 1 juv. c 1 , [Pa. St. Dept. District of Columbia. 



Zool. C3n.]. 



Brandsville, VII, 14, 1910, (H. B. Washington, IX, 1883, 19, [Hebard 



Kirk), 1 <j\ [Pa. St. Dept, Zool. Cln.]. 



Cln.]. Virginia. 

 Carlisle Junction, IV, 27, 1910, (W. R. 



Walton), 1 9, [Pa. St. Dept. Zool. Rosslyn, X, 22, 1900, (R.), 19. 



Cln.]. Falls Church, V, 25, 1913, (A. N. 



Pequea, VI, 9, 1 9 , [Pa. St. Dept, Zool. Caudell), 1 o", [U. S. N. M.]. 



Cln.]. 



Valley Forge, VI, 27, 1908, (H.), 1 9. North Carolina. 



Pink Hill, Newtown Square, VI-VII, _ 7 .. .. TT TT 



15, 1908-11, (R. & H), 31 cf, 26 9 , Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



4 juv 9 1 - ,uv - ? • 



Fern Hill, Chester County, IX, 19, Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1908 (R & H ) 1 o* 1 9 1 o\ 2 9, 1 juv. d\-3 juv. 9 . 



Germantown, V, 5,31, 1912-13, (E. R. Fayettevffle, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Casey), 3 o", 2 9 , [Casey Cln.]. 2 ? • 



Mount, Airy, IX, 15, 1903, (H.), 1 9 . Georgia. 



Collegeville, VIII, 28, 1913, (E. R. „. . „ . ,- . „ „ nn , 



Casey), 1 juv. <?, [Casev Cln:]. B ^ k ?°, C n, , Mo ? n A ain ) ' ' 3 Y? 0( \ feet ' V ' 



Penn Station, (Brugger), 1 <?, [A. N. 20 ~ 25 ' ^l}'^/ C - Bradley), 19. 



g P ] Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



Beatty,'v, 3, 1905, (Brugger), 19, _ {J ' C \ B I^ y l'liu * ioiq m, 

 [A. N. S. P.]. Jasper, 1,550 feet, Mil, 5, 1913, (R,), 



2 juv. 9 . 

 Ohio. Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, 



Cleveland, VII, 3, 1910, (H.), 1 o*. (H.), 1 juv. o". 



In the material before us, the series from eastern Pennsylvania 

 to Virginia shows the extreme, and what may be considered typical, 

 development of this race. It may be noted that this race is found 

 along the Delaware in New Jersey, while N. c. cristatus, though not 

 typical, is distributed over the northern portion of the State and 

 the pine barrens. But two specimens having the extremely long 

 pronotum are before us; both are females, one from Beatty, Penn- 

 sylvania, the other from Virginia; this form of the present race has 

 been named atavus by Blatchley. 



About Philadelphia this form is very occasional excepting upon 

 the barren serpentine outcrops, where in June adults may be found 

 in numbers. In July and September it was found very scarce in 

 the forest undergrowth of eastern North Carolina; at which former 

 time half of the specimens were in^the immature condition. 



Nomotettix cristatus arcuatus Hancock. 



1906. Nomotettix cristatus denticulatus Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 119. 

 [Caddo, Haileyville, South McAlester, Indian Territory; Denison, Texas.] 



North Carolina. South Carolina. 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. c\: H.), 8 



1 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9. juv. 9. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



2 o",l 9. 1 o", 1 juv. o",2 juv. 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.). 

 H.), 3 juv. 9. 9 a", 8 9, 5 juv. 9 . 




132 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 25 d\ 17 9, 3 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 19, 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Baldwin, III, 7, 1879, (E. A. Schwarz), 



19, [U. S. N. M.]. . 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 2 o*, 2 9. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 



Mississippi. 



Biloxi, IV, 23, (F. M. Jones), 19, 

 [A. N. S. P.]. 



Georgia. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 9 juv. 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 3 d\ 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 , 



2 juv. 9. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 19. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 21 tf, 



13 9 , 7 juv. 9 . 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 4 d\ 



3 9,2 juv. 9 . 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 3 tf", 19, 2 juv. 9. 

 Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 2 juv. <?, 1 juv. 9; VII, 1912, 

 (J. C. Bradley), 16 cT, 19 9,2 juv. 

 9 ; IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 

 1 cf, 1 juv. 9. 



A gradual diminution of the pronotal crest is noticeable in the 

 distribution from north to south of the present race, the other charac- 

 ters which distinguish this race becoming in like manner more 

 pronounced. The material from southern Georgia may be con- 

 sidered typical. The series of twenty-three specimens from San 

 Pablo, Pablo Beach and Gainesville, Florida, which we have recorded 

 as N. cristatus,- belong to the present race. 



This race is peculiar to the Sabalian and a portion of the Lower 

 Austral zones of the southeastern United States. It is widely 

 distributed and sometimes abundant in the undergrowth of the 

 long-leaf pine woods, particularly where the ground is low, sandy 

 and water-soaked (Yemassee, Homerville, Hebardville). It has 

 also been found abundant in low spots covered with short green 

 grasses in the midst of saw-palmetto flats (Brunswick). Our material 

 indicates that this race appears adult in the largest numbers later 

 in the season than do the more northern races of the species. 



We find Morse's N. cristatus denticulatus, 21 to be merely the western 

 development of the present race showing a decided tendency toward 

 N. c. compressus. The insects, however, though not typical, are 

 decidedly nearer the present race and we have consequently placed 

 Morse's name in the synonymy here. 



Nomotettix cristatus floridanus Hancock. 



Twelve specimens at hand, recorded by the authors 22 from Lake- 

 land, Fort Myers and La Belle, Florida, show the extreme develop- 



20 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 284, (1907). 



21 Morse questions the racial validity of this phase in his original description. 



22 Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XXII, p. 102, (1914). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



merit of the present type, which race is founded merely on an inten- 

 sification of the characters which constitute the race N. c. arcuatus. 



This geographic race is known only from central and southern 

 Florida, in the northern portion of its range gradually intergrading 

 with -V. c. arcuatus. 



Acrydium arenosum arenosum (Burmeister). 



North Carolina. Waycross, V, 8, 1911, 19, [Ga. St. 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 



:; ', 2 9, 1 juv. <?, 1 juv. 9. ley), 1 d". 



Wnghtsville, IX. 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Mi xon 's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



1 1 d\ 19,3 juv. Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 10 o" , 6 9 . 



Lak. \\ a.vamaw, IX, S, 1911, (R. & Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911; VII, 



H.), 10 cf, 9 9, 4 juv. 16-29, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 2 <f, 



4- 

 Georgia. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddev), 1 cf, 



Vienna, VI, 5, 1910, 2 o\ 2 9, [Ga. [Hebard Cln.]. 



St. Cln.].' 



Of this series but three of the adults are of the strongly abbreviate 

 pronotum phase, namely, a male from Lake Waccamaw, one from 

 Mixon's Hammock and the single Jacksonville specimen. All of the 

 other individuals have a more or less distinctly caudate pronotum. 

 In coloration we have five principal unit types of pattern, all varying 

 individually in tone and also in degree of combination. A large per- 

 centage of the specimens are of a uniform coloration of variable tone 

 without markings. 



From a study of the available material of this species group, it is 

 evident that A. arenosum, angustum and blatchleyi are merely geo- 

 graphic races, limited to definite areas and probably grading into 

 one another in equally definite areas. We have not evidence enough 

 to demonstrate this in regard to blatchleyi, but that it is merely an 

 exaggeration of the arenosum type is evident from an examination 

 of a female from Deep Lake, Florida, clearly referable to blatchleyi. 

 The intergradation of arenosum and angustum, however, is well estab- 

 lished by our material, specimens from Raleigh, North Carolina, pre- 

 viously referred by us to obscurum ( = angustum), 23 being intermediate 

 in character. The principal differences between the two forms have 

 already been set forth by Hancock, the more rugose and striate char- 

 acter of the dorsum of the pronotum of a. arenosum, however, being 

 more evident than any of the other differential features. 



From the evidence in hand we find that A . arenosum arenosum does 



m Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 022, (1911). 

 10 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



not exhibit the fluctuations in pronotal structure that A. arenosum 

 angustum does, there being no exact parallel to the type occurring 

 in the latter race to which Hancock gave the name gibbosus. There 

 is no valid reason for recognizing the latter condition by name, 

 unless one is naming what are at most but formative saltations. 



As a considerable portion of the references given for this form are 

 based wholly or in part on individuals of A. arenosum angustum, it is 

 at present quite difficult to mark off definitely from the literature 

 the areas occupied by the two forms, but from the material in hand 

 we can say that at least as far northward as Charlotte, Wrightsville 

 and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina, the specimens are arenosum 

 arenosum, the Raleigh individuals being intermediate, as is the case 

 with a female from Cedar Bluffs, Nebraska, while the Stone Moun- 

 tain representative shows a tendency toward A. a. angustum, although 

 nearer the southern form. 



The material collected by us was taken on sandy shores (Lake 

 Waccamaw), on a sandy spot at the edge of a bog (vicinity of Stone 

 Mountain), on wet clay along a "branch" in pine woods (Charlotte) 

 or on dry, sandy soil in open forest of short-leaf pine (Wrightsville). 



Acrydium arenosum angustum (Hancock). 



Maryland. North Carolina. 



Laurel, V, 6, 1911, (E. B. Marshall), Tr yon, V, 18, (W. F. Fisher), 19, 



1 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. [U. S. N. M.]. 



Plummer's Island, IX, 29, 1912, (H. L. Tennessee. 



Viereck), X, 13, 1912, (J. D. Hood), rjhrksvillp TTT 31 1909 IV «,nd 17 



1 <? , 1 9, [U. S. N. M. . S Voii'/c p n' u ' 



Washington D C ( \ N C udell) a 19H> (°. F. Crumb; on 



i^i m a m tu i ' ' a tobacco seed bed and hibernating 



Ltf, IU.B. IN. M.J. [HI) 19] in leaves)> 2 ^ g 9j 



Virginia. [U. S. N. M.]. 



Glencarlyn, IV, 27, 1913, (A. N. Georgia. 



Caudell), lcf, [U. S. N. M.]. Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



Washington, VI, 5, 1909, (A. K. (J. C. Bradlev), 2 <?. 



Fisher), 1 a\ [U. S. N. M.]. Black Rock Mountain, 2,000-3,500 



Luray, IX, 2. 1906, (F. Knab), 1 9, feet, V, 20-25, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 



[U. S. N. M.]. lcf. 



For comments on this form see above under Acrydium a. arenosum. 

 We are using the name angustum in place of the synonymic but gen- 

 erally used obscurum, as angustum has page priority. The above 

 north Georgia localities are the most southern from which we have 

 examined the race. In general character the Clayton and Black 

 Rock Mountain specimens are similar to Asheville individuals and 

 all have the pronotum caudate. The Tryon specimen is equally 

 typical of this race, but the Clarksville, Tennessee, individuals show 

 some little tendency toward arenosum arenosum. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



Acrydium ornatum (Say). 



Chevy Chase Lake, Maryland, IV, 7. 18, 1914, (A. N. Caudell), 1 d\ 1 9 , 



1904, (F. D. Conden), 19, [U. S. [U. S. N. M.]. 



X. M.]. Cranberry, North Corolina, X, 1, 1907, 



Washington, District of Columbia, IV, (F. Sherman), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



The Cranberry ♦specimen has the pronotum and wings of medium 

 length, i.e., but little exceeding the apices of the caudal femora. 



On the Southeastern Species of Neotettix. 



For the past four years the problems presented by the genus 

 Neotettix have been seriously considered by us, but previous to this 

 writing we never felt sufficiently well equipped with material to 

 make any final statements regarding the relationship of the "species" 

 which have been described under this genus. Before us at this 

 writing we have considerably over six hundred specimens from the 

 eastern States, or more properly from the region east of the Alle- 

 ghanies from New Jersey and Pennsylvania to Georgia and peninsular 

 Florida. The following "species" from the eastern United States 

 have been referred to or described in this genus: 



Tettix femoratus Scudder, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, II, p. 306, 



(1869). [Maryland.] 

 Neotettix bolivari Hancock, Entom. News, IX, p. 139, pi. VII, figs. 



2-2d, (1898). [Opelousas, Louisiana; Tifton, Georgia.] 

 Neotettix bolivari longipennis Hancock, Tettig. N. Amer., p. 165, 



(1902). [Columbus, Texas.] 

 Neotettix rotundifrons Hancock, Entom. News, IX, p. 139, pi. VIII, 



figs. 3, da-d, (1902). [Jacksonville, Florida.] 

 Neotettix variabilis Hancock, Tettig. N. Amer., p. 165, (1902). 



[Cocoanut Grove, Florida.] 

 Neotettix bolteri Hancock, Entom. News, IX, p. 139, pi. VIII, figs. 



1, la e, (1898). [Jacksonville, Florida.] 

 Neotettix coarctatus Hancock, Tettig. N. Amer., p. 165, (1902). [New 



Mexico (error for Dade County, Florida 24 ); Cocoanut Grove, 



Florida.] 

 Neotettix hancocki Blatchley, Orth. of Ind., p. 226, (1902). [Knox 



County, Indiana.] 

 Apotettix minutus Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



1905, p. 34, pi. I, figs. 3 and 4, (1905). [Miami, Florida.] 



Morse 25 first synonymized rotundifrons under bolivari and suggested 

 the probability of the latter being synonymous with femoratus. The 

 present authors described minutus in 1905, basing it on the then 



24 Vide Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 245, foot- 

 note, (1912). 



25 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 25, (1904). 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



unknown male of one of the forms of the present genus, but later, 26 

 after more study of the genus Apotettix, they placed minutus- in the 

 synonymy under coardatus, considering it to be the caudate type of 

 the male. In 1911, the present authors expressed their belief that 

 Morse was correct in his disposition of rotundifrons and also endorsed 

 the probability of bolivari and femoratus being the same, 27 the type 

 of the latter, which was unknown to Hancock, being before them. 

 In 1912, Relm and Hebard, 28 after examining the types of coardatus 

 and variabilis in the United States National Museum, stated that 

 coardatus was "very close to N. bolteri Hancock, being probably a 

 southern geographic race of the same," while of variabilis they 

 remarked that it is "very close to N. femoratus (Sc.)," and that 

 "more material may show this to be a geographic race of 

 N. femoratus." 



A very careful analysis has been made of the descriptions of the 

 "species" listed above and the following comments are also based 

 on exhaustive examinations of the large series before us, which, 

 representing as it does fifty-five localities, we feel is sufficient for 

 conclusive deductions. The possession of the type of femoratus (a 

 female from Maryland) enables us to speak with positiveness regard- 

 ing that species, which is the crux of the whole question, as Hancock, 

 who is chiefly responsible for the specific names listed above, was 

 entirely unacquainted with its identity. The synonymy of bolivari 

 and rotundifrons can be clearly demonstrated by the examination 

 of almost any extensive series from a single locality, the supposedly 

 differential characters being purely individual. A comparison of 

 Georgia and north Florida material, which is topotypic and in 

 character perfectly typical of "bolivari" and "rotundifrons," with 

 the type of femoratus shows they are certainly inseparable specifically 

 or even varietally, while the desirability or even advisability of 

 naming the long pronotum form of "bolivari" (b. longipennis 

 Hancock) is not at all evident to us, unless we intend in similar 

 fashion to multiply names by describing all of the color phases of 

 polychromatic species. 



Hancock's bolteri we find is a distinct species, typically very 

 different from femoratus, but peculiarly losing some of its definition 

 in central and southern Florida, individuals from which region are 

 often hard to separate from femoratus. Numerous comparisons have 



26 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 244, (1912). 



27 Ibid., 1910, p. 622, (1911). 



28 Ibid., 1912, p. 244, (1912)". 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



shown us that coarctatus is merely this southern bolteri somewhat 

 modified from the typical more northern material, but so slightly 

 that there now appears no valid reason for retaining the name, even 

 in a racial sense. Curiously enough, however, it is in south and 

 central Florida only that long-pronotum individuals of the bolteri 

 type have been taken. Hancock's variabilis we find is merely a very 

 faintly emphasized type of femoratus, certainly too poorly defined 

 to be entitled to a name. In the femoratus type in south and central 

 Florida we find the nearest approach seen in that species to the 

 bolteri series, the two lines seeming to vary toward one another in 

 'that area in a fashion not found in our series from northern Florida 

 northward. This fluctuation apparently expresses a certain amount 

 of instability of the forms in that region, a probable breaking up 

 along other lines being under way, but .as far as taxonomy is con- 

 cerned it is undesirable, and in fact impossible, to attempt to express 

 or define the minute shades of difference seen, although they can be 

 appreciated in certain specimens. From the sum total of specimens 

 examined it is evident that some few specimens of " coarctatus" and 

 u variabilis" stand out from bolteri and femoratus, respectively, with 

 some degree of distinction, but the vast majority, into which the 

 distinctive specimens blend, cannot be separated unless one sorts 

 by localities. In consequence of the fluctuations of these Florida 

 specimens, the construction of a key separating femoratus and bolteri 

 has not been easy. A character which we suggested as diagnostic 

 in 1912, 29 i.e., subscutellate or regularly diverging frontal forks, we 

 now find to be unstable in both forms, although diagnostic in the 

 greater proportion of the specimens. In consequence the present 

 key for separating femoratus and bolteri is almost entirely comparative, 

 but we feel it will serve the purpose of separating two species which 

 over by far the greater portion of their ranges are clearly defined. 



Of Blatchley's hancocki we now have, through the kindness of the 

 author, a topotype (9 ; Knox County, Indiana, VII, 1, 1913, W. S. 

 Blatchley) before us. This specimen shows that the species is 

 inseparable from A 7 , bolteri, the individual in hand being indistin- 

 guishable from east coast material, of which, it will be seen, we 

 have a sufficient quantity to realize the extent of intra-specific 

 variation. 



Quite apart from the relationship of the previously known forms 

 of this genus from the southeastern States, we find in the present 

 series five specimens referable to this genus which are quite note- 



29 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 244, (1912). 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



worthy in a number of ways. The first is, that, although the 

 median carina of the pronotum is as highly cristate as in the average 

 of the genus Nomotettix, they lack the characters of the fastigium 

 and of the frontal costa found in that genus. The second is, that 

 the frontal costa is more widely scutellate between the antennal 

 bases than in the other forms of Neotettix, the width of the same 

 being about one-half that of the very broad fastigium. The third and 

 most striking is, that while the specimens in general size and character 

 of integument are fully adult, they lack the usual bisinuate form 

 of the caudal margin of the lateral lobes of the pronotum of the 

 adult. That the material is adult is proven, however, by the presence * 

 of distinctly developed tegmina and wings in the female sex and wings 

 only in the male sex, entirely or partially hidden under the pronotum. 

 This very remarkable condition, i.e., the retention of an immature 

 pronotal type into the adult condition, has, however, been found to 

 exist in species of the genus Acrydium, for a discussion of which see 

 the comments of the senior author on the African A. dasynotum and 

 virunganum. 50 A similar condition in Acrydium kraussi, from 

 Sweden, has recently been described by Haij as variety paradoxa. 

 That this condition is deep seated in the subfamily is quite apparent, 

 and it is equally evident that it is characteristic of certain species 

 and again occurs as a variant in species normally of the usual type. 



Key to the Southeastern Species of Neotettix. 



A. — Lateral lobes of the pronotum with caudal margin unisinuate. 

 Tegmina absent (d 71 ) or present but almost entirely 

 hidden under the pronotum ( 9 ) . Pronotal median 

 carina strongly arcuate and sublamellate (much as in 



Nomotettix) proavus n. sp. 



A A. — Lateral lobes of the pronotum with usual bisinuate caudal 

 margin. Tegmina always present and entirely exposed. 

 Pronotal median carina not strongly arcuate or sublamel- 

 late. 

 B. — Form more slender. Dorsum of pronotum thickly and 

 finely granuloso-tuberculate and (occasionally) weakly 

 rugose, without distinct strumose rugae. Median 

 carina of pronotum fine, more distinct from the 

 dorsal surface of the pronotum. Caudal femora 

 with ridges of dorso-lateral face and external pagina 



less strumose femoratus (Scudder) . 



BB. — Form more robust. Dorsum of pronotum with elevato- 

 strumose ridges and "bosses," particularly between 



30 Wissensch. Ergeb. Deutsch. Zent.-Afr.-Exp., 1907-1908, V, p. 66, (1914). 




1916.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



the humeral angles, more pronounced in the female, 

 the protuberances usually paired and regular, but 

 occasionally varying in intensity. Median carina 

 of pronotum coarser, less distinct from the dorsal 

 surface of the pronotum. Caudal femora with ridges 

 of dorso-lateral face and external pagina more 

 strumose bolteri Hancock. 



Neotettix proavus new species. PI. XII, figs. 1, 2. 



The differential characters of this very striking species have been 

 summarized under the generic discussion and in the key for the 

 species. 



Type:9; Macon, Bibb County, Georgia. July 30-31, 1913. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 11.] 



Description of Type. — Size rather large (for the genus); form 

 compressed; surface ruguloso-tuberculate. Head with the greatest 

 transverse width through the cheeks; median carina of the occiput 

 and fastigium distinct but not high, regularly arcuate into the line 

 of the face when seen from the side, transverse carinae of the fastigium 

 moderately arcuate, the fastigium about twice as wide as one of the 

 eyes, moderately produced cephalad of the same, surface of the 

 fastigium distinctly fossulate on each side near the eye; outline of 

 the face when seen from the side regularly arcuate into the fastigial 

 outline dorsad, very faintly and broadly arcuate between the paired 

 and median ocelli; frontal costa with the forks strongly diverging 

 ventrad to the antennal bases, thence subparallel to the median 

 ocellus, the interspace very broad, nearly one-half that of the fas- 

 tigium, scutellate, sulcate, very strongly so dorsad (fig. 2); eyes 

 moderately prominent, very faintly flattened; antennae short, not 

 equal to the depth of the head, twelve jointed. Pronotum strongly 

 compressed, in section acute tectate with a sublamellate crest, in 

 profile the crest is well arcuate to the humeral region, thence mod- 

 erately and regularly subarcuate declivent to the caudal extremity 

 of the pronotum, height of crest above humeral angle very slightly 

 greater than the depth from that point to the ventral angle of the 

 lateral lobes; cephalic margin of the pronotal disk obtuse-angulate 

 with the arms of the angle concave, this angle reaching cephalad over 

 the head only to the middle of the eyes ; cephalic carinae very slightly 

 converging cephalad, humeral angles very obtuse, dorso-lateral carinae 

 distinct, arcuate dorsad, regularly converging to the blunt, weakly 

 emarginate caudal apex of the pronotum; surface of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum with indications of longitudinal elevated ridges between the 

 shoulders; lateral lobes of the pronotum having only the ventral sinus 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



indicated on the caudal margin, the tegminal sinus represented by only 

 a faint notch (fig. 1) . Tegmina reduced in size, vestigial, about as long 

 as the eye, normally hidden under the pronotum. Wings abbreviate, 

 reaching only to the caudal third of the pronotum. Ovipositor jaws 

 strongly compressed, decidedly dentate. Cephalic femora with the 

 dorsal margin entire, ventral margin weakly undulate. Median 

 femora with dorsal margin very faintly, and ventral margin weakly, 

 undulate. Caudal femora moderately robust, in length very slightly 

 more than two-thirds that of the pronotum, greatest width of the 

 femora contained slightly more than twice in the length, no distinct 

 genicular tooth indicated on dorsal margin, pattern of the pagina 

 of the dorso-lateral face well defined and moderately elevated; 

 caudal metatarsi distinctly exceeding the remaining tarsal joints 

 in length, distal metatarsal pul villus equal to the two proximal ones 

 in length. 



Allotype: cf ; Same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype. — Differing from the type in the following 

 features. Size somewhat less than in the female sex; form similar; 

 surface identical in character. Head with the fastigium very faintly 

 narrower than in the female, but otherwise similar. Pronotum as 

 in the female. Tegmina absent. Wings proportionately less 

 developed than in the female. Limbs as in the female. 



The coloration varies from a type of uniform fuscous black with 

 weakly indicated velvety black posthumeral triangles on the dorsal 

 surface of the pronotum (allotype), to an opposite extreme with 

 verona brown on the caudal half of the pronotum, greater portion 

 of lateral lobes of the pronotum and greater portion of dorsal and 

 lateral faces of the caudal femora, with a heavy saddle of fuscous 

 black covering the remainder of the pronotum, abdomen, limbs, 

 ventral surface and head (type). The Jasper male is similar to the 

 allotype but more fuscous and with the black triangles very faint, 

 while the Buckhead female approaches bone brown with distinct 

 triangles and a generally more mottled coloration. The sixth speci- 

 men examined, mentioned more fully below, is almost uniform natal 

 brown. The limbs are more or less variegated in the contrastingly 

 colored specimens, the caudal femora particularly so, the ventral 

 face of the latter, however, more solidly blackish than any other 

 aspect of the limbs. The antennal joints are narrowly annulate 

 with verona brown on fuscous black, the distal extremity largely 

 of the former color. The eyes vary from cameo brown to vandyke 

 brown, mottled. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Depth of 



Length Length pronotal Length of 



of of crest to caudal 



body. pronotum. humeral femur. 



angle. 



9 Macon, Georgia. Type 10.4 *..l 1.8 6. 



9 Buckhead, Georgia 9.9 8.6 1.9 6. 



Macon, Georgia. Allotype.. 8.1 7.3 1.5 5. 



c? Jasper, Georgia 8.2 7.5 1.6 5. 



c? Murphy, North Carolina.... 8.5 7.8 2. 5.3 



o* Unknown locality S.2 7.4 1.4 5.3 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us the speci- 

 mens measured above. The data for the Buckhead specimen is 

 August 2, 1913, (H.); for the Jasper individual, elevation 1,550 feet, 

 August 5, 1913, (R.); for the Murphy specimen, July 25, 1903, 

 (A. P. Morse). These three specimens can be considered paratypes. 

 The specimen without locality belongs to the Hebard Collection 

 ex Bruner and bears a label "Schaum's Collection." 



The males show no trace of tegmina, but the wings are developed 

 in all, though varying somewhat in length. In the two females, 

 however, the tegmina are evident, although mere pads. 



The specimens taken by us were all on the ground in woodland, 

 composed of short-leaf pine (Macon), mixed pine and oak (Jasper) 

 or oak alone (Buckhead). At Macon the species occurred among 

 pine needles and at Buckhead it was on quite sandy soil. 



Neotettix femoratus (Scudder). 



Neotettix bolivari Hancock. 

 Neotettix bolivari longipennis Hancock. 

 Neotettix rotundifrons Hancock. 

 Neotettix variabilis Hancock. 



Pennsylvania. River View, VI, 29, 1898, (F. C. Pratt . 



Willow Grove, Montgomery County, 1 ? > t u - s - N - M -l- 



V. 18, 1912, (E. R. Casey), 1 juv. 9 . 



[Casey Cln.] Virginia. 



Pink Hill, Delaware County, VI, 19, n „„„„„ VTT 01 , m ., /T> s u -. 



1908, (R. &H.), 19. Orange^^II, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



New Jersey. ' Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



Atsion, X, S, 1903, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . H ' ) ' 5 cf ' 4 9 ' 



Delaware. North Carolina. 



Millsboro, (B. Long), 1 o". [A. X. Hendersonville, VI, 1907, (F. Sher- 

 S. P.]. man), 19, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Maryland. °72?u% V*' 26 o 1913 ' (R " & H °' 



J 9 c?, 14 9, 1 juv. 9. 



No further data. 19, type, [A. X. Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.i. 



S. P.]. 1 cf,19. 



Plummer's Island, VI, 20, 1909, (W. L. Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



McAtee), 1 9 , [U. S. X. M.]. 9 <?, 3 9 . 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 4 d 1 , 19. 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 



South Carolina. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Manning, V, 23, 1914, (Witmer Stone), 



1 <?, [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



19. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



8 d, 8 9. 



Georgia. 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W- T. 



Davis), 10 cf, 10 9. 

 Rabun Bald, 4,000-4,800 feet, VIII, 



21, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 

 Black Rock Mountain, 3,500 feet, V, 



20-25, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 1 



juv. 9 . 

 Pinnacle Peak, VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradlev), 1 d". 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 1 9 . 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard), 2 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



5_cf, 49. 

 Vicinitv of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913', (R. & H.), 2 <?. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



.9 d% 19. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 d, 3 9, 1 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (R. & H.), 



14 cf, 7 9. 

 Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 9 . 

 Billy's Island, VI-VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 11 d", 49. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 1 cf . 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 17 d, 



4 9,2 juv. 9 . 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



6 d\ 119. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?, 



4 9,1 juv. cf. 

 Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, VII, 



16-29, 1912, VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 5 <?, 8 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IV, 1885, (Ashmead); 



VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 3(^,39. 

 St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



Engelhardt), 1 <? ■ 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



6 <?, 3 9, 3 juv. 9. 



The comments made in the prefatory remarks on this genus 

 explain the synonymy given above. An analysis of the present 

 material for the ratio of individuals with abbreviate and those with 

 caudate pronota shows the larger series, as a rule, contain a greater 

 percentage of the caudate type and that geographically the difference 

 has no significance. Morse 31 has noted that in a series of one hundred 

 and fifty-two specimens from Waycross, Georgia, the two phases were 

 present in "equal numbers; but the usual proportion of long-winged 

 examples is much lower, ranging from 5 to 20 per cent." The 

 largest series examined by us from the region under consideration 

 show the following: Sulphur Springs, N. C, 27 specimens, 7 caudate; 

 Thomasville, Ga., 24 specimens, 6 caudate; Hebardville, Ga., 21 

 specimens, 2 caudate; Brunswick, Ga., 21 specimens, 2 caudate; 

 Rabun County, Ga., 20 specimens, 2 caudate; Greensboro, N. C, 

 19 specimens, 1 caudate; Homerville, Ga., 17 specimens, 2 caudate; 

 Yemassee, S. C., 16 specimens, 1 caudate; Billy's Island, Ga., 15 

 specimens, 2 caudate. From these series it will be seen that Morse's 

 general figures hold true. Rather curiously, the nine specimens 



Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 25, (1904). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1 4v} 



from Live Oak, Florida, have six of their number with the pronotum 

 caudate. It is quite probable that immediate environment is the 

 governing factor in the production of the two types, and we have 

 here an interesting Held for experimental work. 



In size such variation as is found is, apparently, in the main 

 individual or environmental, while the rugosity of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum is another variable feature in all probability dependent 

 on environment. The fluctuations in the latter respect are con- 

 siderable, but in no case are they sufficient to cause confusion with 

 .V. bolti 



The variation in the form of the frontal costa is quite appreciable, 

 and of one hundred and ninety-six specimens examined for this 

 character, one hundred and fifty-six have the interantennal section 

 scutcllate or ''flask-shaped," nine show a slightly different type, 

 t \\ enty-three are more strongly divergent and three have the lateral 

 margin< of the costa regularly divergent ventrad as in the majority 

 of .V. bolteri. These three aberrant individuals are from widely 

 separated localities — Fredericksburg, Virginia; Homerville, Georgia, 

 and Live Oak, Florida — and in no other respect do they approach 

 bolteri. 



In coloration we find this species to be more uniform than most 

 of our common nearctic grouse-locusts, by far the greater portion 

 of the material being brownish, with or without triangular blackish 

 posthumeral areas. The variation consists of a more or less complete 

 "pepper and salt" effect, rarely a pale "saddle," a pale outline of 

 the median carina of the pronotum and very infrequently paired pale 

 areas on the dorsal surface of the caudal femora. In addition to 

 these rather infrequent differences, numerous specimens are strongly 

 infuscate, occasionally almost black, while quite rarely they are 

 almost uniform cinereous. The general tone is undoubtedly a 

 response to the environment, those from sandy or clayey soils, as at 

 Homerville, Live Oak, Greensboro and Fredericksburg, showing 

 the paler shades, but this is not absolute, as individuals from Jackson- 

 ville taken on bare white sandy soil are very dark. Apparently the 

 degree of moisture in the soil produces no response in color, as the 

 material from Augusta, which was taken in open, moderately dry 

 pine woods, averages darker than that from Homerville which was 

 taken on damp sandy ground. 



From the mapped distribution of this species it will be seen that 

 the northern boundary of its range is in the Upper Austral zone, 

 probably being the upper boundary of that area, southward the 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



form extending over the Lower Austral, Sabalian and Subtropical 

 zones and in the southern Alleghanies working up into the Transition, 

 where it occurs as high as 5,500 feet on Roan Mountain, North 

 Carolina, and 4,000-4,800 feet on Rabun Bald, Rabun County, 

 Georgia. In detail its known distribution extends from Staten 

 Island, New York, Jamesburg, New Jersey, and Willow Grove and 

 Pink Hill, Pennsylvania, south to southern Florida (Miami and Co- 

 coanut Grove), west to central Iowa (Ames), east-central Oklahoma 

 (South McAlester) and east-central Texas (Columbus). Ames, Iowa, 

 and Bloomington, Indiana, are the most northern known localities in 

 the Mississippi Valley region. 



The species is generally distributed in a variety of environments, 

 these varying from distinctly saturated soil to sandy loams and bare 

 white sand areas, from bare humus and sand to areas of short green 

 grasses, dry wire grass to low bushes and foot-high grasses. It also 

 occurs in open meadowy areas, palmetto flats and again under 

 long-leaf and short-leaf pines and gums. 



Neotettix bolteri Hancock. 



Neotettix hancocki Blatchley. 

 Neotettix coarctatus Hancock. 

 Apotettix minutus Rehn & Hebard. ' 



Virginia. Georgia. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 12 c?, 9 9. 19. 



North Carolina. St. Simon's Island, IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), (J- c - Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



6 cf , 4 9 . Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 J>. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



1 9. Bradley), 1 9 . 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Florida. 



2 *' South Carolina. Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Manning, V 23 1914, (Witmer Stone), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



1 c?, 1.9, [A. N. S. P.]. H) 39 



Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H.), Fort Reea \ IV, 20, 1876, 32 1 9 , [Hebard 



10 cf, 10 9, 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. Clnl 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 



The remarks made under the generic treatment will explain the 

 above synonymy. We find that none of the specimens of the species 

 taken from northern Florida northward are of the form with the 

 caudate pronotum, but that the series from south and central Florida 

 (Hancock's coarctatus) show about 20 per cent, of the caudate type. 



32 This specimen is labelled "Batrach. cristata Harris" on one of Scudder's 

 labels in his handwriting. Probably all of the material reported by Scudder 

 from that locality under that name {Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, p. 90, (1877).) 

 should be referred to bolteri. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



In the latter lot the proportionate difference in this respect between 

 the sexes is slight. Here, as in femoratus, it is possible that immediate 

 environment is the responsible factor for the development of the 

 caudate type or the alternative abbreviate one. 



In south and central Florida this species varies away from the 

 more northern type in the slightly more compressed form, the break- 

 ing up of the usually linear, strumose pronotal ridges into less elongate 

 scabrosities, while in the abbreviate individuals the caudal process 

 of the pronotum is more acute. The importance, even relatively, 

 of these differences is discounted when we examine the entire series 

 before us and find that specimens from Sullivan Island, South Carolina, 

 and Wrightsville, North Carolina, are as compressed as the south 

 Florida individuals, while representatives from other Carolina localities 

 are no more strongly strumose, and just as angulate caudad on the 

 pronotum, as in the south and central Florida material. The width 

 of the fastigium and the tegminal length and width vary so individu- 

 ally in a series from any locality, that no diagnostic weight can be placed 

 upon any of these features. In the strongly accentuated condition this 

 species occurs in northern Florida and southern Georgia, north and 

 south of which a certain portion of the material is less strikingly 

 marked, although a large part or the larger part is decidedly typical 

 of the species, but in all of the specimens examined the recognition 

 of the material is not difficult, except in the case of south and central 

 Florida individuals. With these, however, we feel that the characters 

 given in the key will enable the student to separate bolteri from 

 femoratus. Doubtless environment is responsible for most of the 

 differences mentioned above, as it probably is to a degree for size 

 difference, but in this there is much of an individual character, as 

 material from the same environment at the same locality shows. 



The variation in the form of the frontal costa found in femoratus 

 is parallelled in the present species, the regularly diverging type being 

 the normal form, the scutellate type the exception. The coloration 

 varies as in femoratus, but as a rule to a lesser degree. 



The range of this species in the southeastern States is now known 

 to extend from Petersburg, Virginia, south to Key West, Florida, west 

 to Pensacola Bay (Warrington and Fort Barrancas), Florida, and in- 

 land as far as Spring Creek, Georgia, and Fayetteville, North Carolina. 

 It is thus seen to be limited to the Lower Austral, Sabalian and Sub- 

 tropical zones, probably ranging to eastern Texas and certainly up 

 the Mississippi Valley as far as southwestern Indiana. Previous to 

 this writing bolteri was only known from Florida. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



This species occurs in as great a variety of habitats as femoratus, 

 having been taken in marshy sink holes, among grasses in marshy 

 spots near streams and lakes (Petersburg and Fayetteville), in wet 

 weedy spots and among low undergrowth in short-leaf pine woods 

 (Goldsboro and Yemassee), in heavy palmetto and live-oak jungle 

 (Atlantic Beach), among undergrowth on dunes and in bare spots 

 on barrier beaches (Tybee and Sullivan Islands and Wrightsville). 



Paratettix rugosus (Scudder). 



St. Simon's Island, Georgia, IV, 22-V, Jacksonville, Florida, (T. J. Priddey), 

 12, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 19. 3cf,49, [Hebard Cln.]. 



We have also examined a pair from Fort Reed, Florida, deter- 

 mined as this species by Scudder. All of the specimens of the 

 present series have the pronotum caudate. 



Tybee Island and St. Simon's Island are the most northern points 

 in the eastern States from which the species is known. 



Paratettix CUCUllatUS (Burmeister). 



Virginia. Tallulah Falls, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 cf . Davis), 19. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Toccoa, VIII, 22, 1909, 1 cf, [Ga. 

 H.), 8cf, 9 9,8juv. State CM.]. 



\ icinity of btone Mountain, \ 111, 6, 

 North Carolina. 1913" (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



Tryon, V, 21 to 31, (W. F. Fiske), Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 cf, 2 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 4d\-.3 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & Spring Creek, VI, 7-23. 1911; VII, 

 H) \ <? 19 16-29, 1912; VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 22 cf , 22 9 , 1 juv. 



Georgia. Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910: IX, 17-X, 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 19, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 2 cf, 5 9 , 



Davis), 2 cf, 3 9. 1 juv. 



From this material it is evident that cucullatus varies individually 

 quite a little in general size in both sexes, and also to an appreciable 

 degree in the rugosity of the dorsum of the pronotum. The general 

 color varies considerably in tone, through brownish blacks and 

 browns to dull ochre shades, with mottled individuals rather infre- 

 quent and " collared" specimens quite rare. The post humeral 

 paired triangular velvety black areas are not strongly indicated in 

 the greater proportion of the specimens and absent in a considerable 

 number. 



The Thomasville specimens previously recorded by us as texanus 33 

 we find on re-examination and comparison to be cucullatus. 



At Fredericksburg the species was found to be rather scarce along 

 the sandy edge of a stream near the Rappahannock River. At 



33 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 782, (1905). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Lake Waccamaw it occurred on the sandy shore of the lake and at 

 Albany on eroded limestones and sand bars along the Flint River, 

 at the former locality associated with Acrydium a. arenosum. 



Paxilla obesa (Scudder). 



North Carolina. Fargo, VIII, 31, 1913, 1 juv. 9, [Ga. 



Wilmington. IX, S, 1911, (R. & H.), „ St - ^J* TTTTT 



1 j llv - 9 ' ' Hornerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



South ( 'arolina. 6 o", 10 9 , 6 juv. cf , 13 juv. 9 . 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), Florida. 



20 cf, 17 9, 4 juv. cf, 8 juv. 9 . Jacksonville, IV, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 Georgia, mead), 2 9, (T. J. Priddey), 2 cf, 



H nil V 's C 'l.n % Toh { fL 2 f'' Bm^UL J^rown), 33 *, 38 9 



Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



It is interesting to note that at the two localities where large series 

 of the present insect were found by us, the only two large series of 

 Tettigidea prorsa were taken. The present species appears to be entirely 

 confined in distribution to the Sabalian and Tropical zones where it 

 is further restricted to low, blackish, water-soaked ground covered 

 with low bog plants (sun-dews, pitcher plants, etc.), in pine 

 woods (long-leaf pine at all of the localities except Yemassee, where 

 the forest was composed of the short-leaf species which is sometimes 

 found in this region near swamps), so that even in its limited range 

 its distribution is markedly discontinuous. This species has been 

 recorded northward as far as New Berne, North Carolina, and south- 

 ward to Detroit, Florida, while De Funiak Springs, Florida, is the 

 most westerly published record. 



All but two of the series taken at Hornerville were captured in 

 an area a few yards in diameter, where the peculiar vegetation 

 described above flourished, wide search through the swampy under- 

 growth of the pine woods elsewhere revealed only two young. 



Tettigidea prorsa Scudder. 



1895. Tettigidea prorsa elongata Morse, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 16. 

 [Georgia.] 



North Carolina. Georgia. 



Favetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



19. Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 cf. 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 

 2 juv. cf. H.), 1 cf. 



South Carolina. ^f ™*> 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



v ,y , ion ,r> x n ^ 6 o", / 9, 3 juv. 9. 



\emassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



27 cf, 9 9, 23 juv. 9. 



This aberrant species appears to be a primitive form, as immature 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



examples of T. lateralis showing a somewhat closer structural simi- 

 larity to this species than do adults of that insect. Morse's name 

 elongata was proposed for the individuals of this species having a 

 caudate pronotum; three males and one female from Yemassee, 

 South Carolina, are of this phase. 



The majority of the adults have the dorsal surface of the pronotum 

 somewhat lighter brown in coloration than the lateral lobes of the 

 same, only seven individuals are unicolorous and darker, while but 

 one female (Homerville) has the dorsal surface of the pronotum 

 unusually pale and tawny-olive in tone. 



The present insect has been found from Beach Haven, New Jersey, 

 to extreme southern Georgia. Its distribution is discontinuous, 

 though not to the degree of that of Paxilla obesa, for while it has 

 been found to prefer areas in the pine woods of low, blackish, water- 

 soaked ground covered with low bog plants (Wilmington, Yemas- 

 see, Homerville), it has also been taken in various low grasses near 

 " hammock" land (Augusta, Hebardville, Suwannee Creek, Homer- 

 ville) and in swamp grasses along a wooded stream (Fayetteville) . 

 The specimen from Augusta was taken just below the fall line among 

 long-leaf pines. 



Tettigidea spicata Morse. 



Florida. Alabama. 



Florida, (Morrison), 6 9, type, para- Alabama, (Morrison), 2 c? , 4 9, 



type and series taken with these, [Hebard Cln.]. 



[Hebard Cln.]. T ■ • 



Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 9, „ _. ^omstana ^ 



[Hebard Cln.]. ^* ew Orleans, (Coleman), 2 9 , [Hebard 



Pablo Beach, IV, 8, (P. Laurent), 1 9 , Cln -1- 



[Hebard Cln.]. 



Morse in his original description gives "intermediate in structure 

 of vertex between apiculata and armata, but. more nearly allied to 

 the latter." This is true in respect to the vertex, but in the total 

 of characters the relationship to apiculata is much more decided, 

 the present insect being apparently a less strongly developed form 

 of a common stock. The more arcuate character of the dorsum of 

 the pronotum in transverse section between the humeral angles is 

 one of the most apparent characters to distinguish this species from 

 T. armata, from which insect it further differs in the characters 

 given by Morse. 34 



Specimens referred to this species by the authors from the vicinity 



3i Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 108, (1895). 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



149 



of Thomasville, Georgia, are in the present paper correctly placed 

 under T. armata. 



A peculiar color type, in which the pronotum has a pale medio- 

 longitudinal marking which is narrowest between the shoulders, 

 l- found in the Pablo Beach specimen. This type of coloration is 

 not found in the races of T. lateralis. 



In the Sabalian zone the present insect is one of the scarcer species. 

 For the southeastern United States, "Georgia" was the most western 

 locality hitherto known. 



Tettigidea lateralis lateralis (Say). 



1838. T[etrix] polymorpha Burmeister, Handb. Entom., II, Abth. 2, Pt. 1, 



pp. 659-800. [South Carolina.] 

 1902. Tettigidea medialis Hancock, Tettig. X. Amer., p. 152. [Southern 



Illinois; Missouri; Tennessee; Louisiana.] 



New Jersey. 35 

 Ortley, IV, 10, 1903, (H. L. Viereck), 



1 d\ [A. N. S. P.]. 



Stafford's Forge, IX, 10, 1905, (H.), 



2 J, 49. 



Atsion, X. S, 1903, (H.j. 2 9. 



Ocean City, IV, 19, 1903, (H. L. 



Viereck), 3 9, [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Cape May, VII, 4, 1908, (H. L. 



Viereck), 1 cf, [A. X. S. P.]. 



Delaware. 

 Rehoboth, VI, 8, 1908, (B. Long), 

 1 cf , [A. X. S. P.]. 



Maryland. 

 Chestertown, VIII, 18, 24, 27, 1899, 



(E. G. Vanatta), lo",29,l juv. 9 , 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Hyattsville, VIII, 14, (A. X. Caudell), 



1 juv. 9, [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Washington, D. C, IV, IX, 1883-84, 



13 cf, 14 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Franklin City, VI, 24, 1907, (B. Long), 



5 cf , [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 5 cf, 4 9, 2 juv. cf, 3 juv. 9. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 



2 9,3 juv. 9 . 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 cf, 6 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Lvnchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 



Xorth Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 19. 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



7 cf, 3 9, 4 juv. 9. 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3^,29. 

 Favetteville, X, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 cf, 19, 3 juv. 9. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



39. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 <?, 19. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 <?. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 34 cf , 20 9 , 8 juv. cf , 8 juv. 9 . 



South Carolina. 



Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 cf . 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 <?. 



Manning, V, 23, 1914, (W. Stone), 



1 9 , [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H.), 



29. 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 1 cf, 19. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



10 cf, 6 9, 2 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 3 cf , 6 9 , 4 juv. <? , 5 juv. 9 . 

 Clavton, V, 18, 26, 1911, 2,000 feet, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 cf, 19. 

 Atlanta, V, 15, 1911, (J. C. Bradley . 



1 cf . 



35 The series of intermediates from Ortley, Atsion and Ocean City have been 

 recorded as T. parvipennis by Rehn, Ent. News, XV, p. 326, (1904). 



11 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF . [April, 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 19. 7 d\ 8 9, 5 juv. 9. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 d\ 



1913, (R. &H.),7 cf, 7 9, 1 juv. <?. 4 9. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), De Witt, VIII, 19, 1912, 19, [Ga. 



1 juv. cf . State Cln.]. 



Summerville, 1 9 , [Ga. State Cln.]. Bainbridge, VII, 15, 1912, (J. C. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), Bradley), 1 9. 



2 tf 1 , 1 9 . Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, VII, 16-29, 

 Columbus, VII, 16, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 1911-12, (J. C. Bradley), 5 d\ 5 9, 



ley), 1 juv. cf. 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 6 d\ „ ., 



3 9,1 juv. 9 . Florida. 

 Bruns'wick, VIII, 30, 1911, (R. & H.), Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 5 tf, 



2 d\ 4 9, 3 juv. 9. 10 9, [Hebard Cln.]; IX, 7, 1913, 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 2 rf 1 , (W. T. Davis), 1 d\ 



19. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, H.), 8 d\ 2 9 , 2 juv. 9 . 



(R. & H.), 2^,29. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 1 juv. 9 . 



Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 4 cf, 3 9, St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



1 juv. cf. Englehardt), 19, [B. I.]. 



Burmeister's name polymorpha has long been known to be a 

 synonym of Say's lateralis, but since he described two forms, the 

 caudate and abbreviate phases of the present insect, efforts have 

 been made to retain this name for one of these. The uselessness 

 of employing names for such phases has already been commented 

 upon in the present paper. 



Examination of extensive northern series of the present insect 

 convinces us that they belong to a valid geographic race, Tettigidea 

 lateralis parvipennis (Harris), 36 which is exceedingly close to the 

 southern insect, but typical material from northern New England 37 

 may be separated from typical material of T. lateralis lateralis, 

 described from Georgia and East Florida, by the following characters: 

 form more robust; antennae heavier, joints not more than twice 

 as long as broad; frontal costa heavier; outline of dorsum of prono- 

 tum more decidedly broken cephalad of humeral angles, these angles 

 more pronounced. Under this geographic race falls the name given 

 for its caudate phase T[ettigidea] parvipennis pennata Morse. 38 



The large series before us show conclusively that, as the races 

 approach one another in distribution, their differential characters 

 become less and less appreciable; the material before us from the 

 pine barrens and adjacent coastal strip of New Jersey, from Delaware, 

 Maryland and northern Virginia, the series which we have recorded 



36 Morse discusses this question in Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 109, (1895). 



37 Material from numerous localities in Pennsylvania and from the Delaware 

 River strip of New Jersey, now before us, is practically typical of the northern race. 



™Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 109, (1895). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



previously from Sulphur Springs (2,000 feet) and Mount Pisgah 

 (4,500 feet), North Carolina, and the high country of northern 

 Georgia, is all intermediate in character. Hancock has based his 

 "variety" Tettigidea medialis on such material from southern Illinois, 

 Missouri, Tennessee and Louisiana. We strongly question the 

 Louisiana material being intermediate, for the material before us 

 from that State is typical of T. lateralis lateralis. The uselessness 

 of a name for intermediates between weakly defined geographic 

 races does not require comment. 



Material taken in heavy forest near streams or in swampy places 

 shows a strong predominance of the abbreviate phase (Weldon and 

 Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Thomasville, Georgia 39 ). A female 

 before us from Charlotte, North Carolina, has the wings abnormally 

 produced, reaching 3.8 mm. beyond the caudate pronotum and 14 mm. 

 in total length. The present insect is distributed everywhere through 

 grasses and herbage of meadow, forest, swamp and marsh, usually 

 found most numerous in and about damp situations. Of typical series 

 before us 90.6% is caudate, this percentage excluding the three series 

 discussed at the beginning of the paragraph. Besides the 367 

 individuals of the present species recorded above, we have before 

 us 223 other specimens previously recorded from the southeastern 

 United States and from as far west as Louisiana. 



The largest series of intermediates before us (Washington, District 

 of Columbia; Asheville, North Carolina) include a majority of speci- 

 mens having the dorsal surface of the pronotum paler in coloration 

 than the lateral lobes, ranging in different specimens from snuff brown 

 and russet through clay color to cream color. Three of these speci- 

 mens have the caudal femora broadly banded, four have a large spot 

 in a similar position, while a number have the entire caudal femora 

 of the same shade of the dorsum of the pronotum. Nearly half of 

 the remaining large series of the present insect are unicolorous black- 

 ish brown, while almost all of the other specimens have the dorsum 

 of the pronotum only slightly paler, usually unicolorous but occasion- 

 ally somewhat mottled, and the caudal femora wholly uniform or 

 inconspicuously marked. All of the males have the face and ventral 

 portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum nearly or quite clear white. 



Tettigidea armata Mors?. PL XII. fi?3. 3, 4, 5. 



1895. Tettigidea armata deprcssa Morse, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, III, p. 107. 

 [Vigo County, Indiana; Jacksonville, St. John's River and Ft. Reed, 

 Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana]. 



39 Recorded in part by Hebard as Tettigidea lateralis form polymorpha. Ent. 

 News, XX, p. 115, (1909). 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1908. Tettigidea davisi Morse, Psyche, XV, p. 25. [Perth Amboy and 

 Jamesburg, New Jersey; Staten Island, New York.] 



New York. Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



Staten Island, IV, 4, VI, 5, IX, 1897- (J- °- Bradley) 1 d 



1900, (W. T. Davis), 2d, 2 9, Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 



paratypes of T. davisi Morse. nr-^ , TT i ™ <■ i 



va, a, jy Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



New Jersey. Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 3 d, 6 9 . 



2 d, [A. N. S. P.]. Waycross, V, 8, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 



Perth Amboy, V, 31, (W. T. Davis), i ^. 



Id, 19, paratypes of T. davisi Thomasville, II, 29, III, 29, IV, 1, 9, 



Morse. XII, 14, 1903-04, (H.), 6 d, 8 9 . 



North Carolina. Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), Bradley), 1 9 . 



I juv. 9 . Florida 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Jacksonville) ^ ^ (w< H Agh _ 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & mead), Id, paratype of T armata 



H.) 14 d 13 9 ., 2 juv. d, 4 juv. 9 . depressa Morse, [Hebard <^m.J. 



South Carolina. Louisiana. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), New Orleans, (Coleman), 4 9 , 1 para- 



II d, 9 9, 6 juv. d, 10 juv. 9 . type of T. armata depressa Morse ; 



Georgia. (Saltan), 2 d, 2 9 , [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d. 



As Tettigidea armata depressa is based solely on the abbreviate 

 form of armata, the name is placed in the synonymy here. 



Morse's Tettigidea davisi, referred to in his original description as 

 "an undescribed form or species of this genus, related to armata 

 Morse," was separated by "the customary lack of a cuspidate point 

 on the front margin of the pronotum .... occasionally showing 

 variations toward a cuspidate condition" and also slightly different 

 tegmina, in other respects being typical of armata. 



The series before us shows that the cuspidate condition of the 

 cephalic margin of the dorsum of the pronotum is variable in the 

 present insect; the following table of percentages gives the degree 

 in the larger series we have examined. 



Strongly Moderately Weakly Angulate, 

 cuspidate cuspidate cuspidate. no cusp 

 (fig. 5). (fig. 4). (fig. 3). 



New Jersey 6 94 



North Carolina 84 10 4 2 



South Carolina 76 18 2 4 



Georgia 70 28 2 



Louisiana 100 



The above figures show that, although there are indications of an 

 incipient division in the present species, no valid geographic race 

 yet exists. The table does not mean that four types of this species 

 occur, for every shade of intergradation exists and the four columns 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



are solely for the convenience of the student; thus in the Xew 

 Jersey scries noticeable variation toward a weakly cuspidate condition 

 is discernible, while in the material from Louisiana, though all are 

 of the strongly cuspidate condition, the degree differs individually. 

 Were it not for the fact that large series taken in restricted localities 

 show in several instances forms typical of both armata and davisi, 

 we would be led to consider the latter a valid geographic race. 

 The only other characters given for davisi, tegminal abbreviation 

 and size of the tegminal spot, are even more variable in the present 

 species than the character discussed above, and we are consequently 

 obliged to place davisi in the synonymy under the present species. 



The abbreviate condition in the present species is more common 

 than the caudate phase; this is constant throughout the insect's 

 distribution and is very probably clue to immediate environment. 

 The degree of cuspidation of the cephalic margin of the pronotum 

 is found to vary least in caudate individuals, none of these lacking 

 the usual cuspidation. 



The species has been found in scant swamp-grasses along "branch" 

 (Fayetteville), common on bare, black swamp soil (Lake Waccamaw), 

 occasional on grassy edges of swamp (Lake Waccamaw), in low, wet, 

 sandy spots along streams (Florence, Wrightsville, Thomasville) 

 and occasional on sandy soil covered with scant grasses and dead 

 oak leaves (Mixon's Hammock). This insect prefers much more 

 swampy situations than does T. lateralis, and the larger series here 

 recorded were only secured by long and careful search in favorable 

 and always much restricted areas. At Florence the following field 

 note was made: "The Tettigidese would often jump into the water 

 and drift down with the current, quite motionless until they would 

 strike a twig or root to which they would cling. Their appearance 

 was exactly like a bit of twig or bark floating down stream. " The 

 species has been recorded from Staten Island, New York, south to ex- 

 treme southern Florida and westward as far as Riverside, Illinois; 

 Howe, Oklahoma, and Dallas, Texas. 



Radinotatum brevipenne brevipenne (Thomas). 



South Carolina. Macon, V, 1 d\ 1'9, [U. 8. N. M.]; 



Yemassee IX 4 1911 (R & H ) V1I > 30 ' 1913 ' (R " & H) ' 1 <?> 



" iuv % 4 iuv 9 2 jUV - <*•' 2 J uv - 9 • 



- JUV - <?, * Juv. 9. Igle of Hope; IX 3j 1911> (R & H); 



r, 4 juv. d\ 



heor S ia - Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), juv. d". 



5 juv. d\ 3 juv. 9 . Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.i, 2 juv. d\ 



Warm Springs, 850-1,200 feet, VIII, 1 juv. 9 ; XII, 1908, (H.), 1 juv. J 1 , 



9-10, 1913, (R.), 5 juv. d% 9 juv. 9 . 1 juv. 9 . 




154 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.) 



2 juv. d\ 5 juv. 9. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 6 <? , 



79. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 2 juv. tf, 2 juv. 9 

 Billy's Island, VI, VII, 1912, 2 <?; 



IX, 1-5, 1913, 1 juv. d 1 , (all J. C. 



Bradley). 

 Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 9. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. c\ 4 juv. 9 . 

 Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, V, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 mead), 19, [Hebard Cln.]; VIII, 

 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 juv. d\ 1 

 juv. 9; XI, 3, 5, 1913, (W. T. 

 Davis), 19,1 juv. d", 1 juv. 9 . 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 2 juv. <?. 



Pablo Beach, XI, 4, 1911, (W. T. 

 Davis), 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 few very small juv. seen. 



Cedar Keys, VI, 1 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. 



The immature examples before us taken in August and September 

 are almost all in the instar in which females are 17-18 mm. in length, 

 excepting those from Augusta, Warm Springs, Macon and Albany, 

 Georgia, in which series females average 13 mm. and five from Au- 

 gusta and Albany average 8 mm. The majority of young from Georgia 

 and northern Florida taken in November and December show little 

 increase in size over those taken in August, females measuring 

 20-21 mm. in length, though the following instars are also represented 

 by females measuring 26 and 32 mm., respectively. It is in these 

 later stages of development that the insects remain, and are active 

 except on the coldest days, throughout the winter in southern Georgia 

 and northern Florida, adults beginning to appear toward the middle 

 of April. The presence in the series of an adult female taken in 

 November shows that occasional mature individuals continue even 

 into the early winter, but evidence shown by past and present study 

 gives convincing proof that the species appears adult over the greater 

 part of its range in late April and mature individuals have become 

 scarce as early as August. In central Florida, however, the species 

 passes the winter in the adult condition. 



An interesting feature in the development of the male subgenital 

 plate is demonstrated by the present series. Immature males, 

 until they have reached a length of 12.5 mm., have this plate very 

 short, not projecting beyond the apex of the abdomen, with caudal 

 margin acute-angulate emarginate; in the following instar (length 

 18 mm.) the attenuate and greatly produced subgenital plate of the 

 type of the adult insect appears. 



In the large series of immature examples before us, those of the 

 brown color phase are somewhat more numerous than those marked 

 with green. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



155 



The species within its range is widely distributed throughout the 

 undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forests and has sometimes been 

 observed to frequent somewhat damp situations. It has also been 

 found in short grass of waste land (below fall line, Augusta), in 

 sandy tract of scrub oaks (just above fall line, Augusta), in mixed 

 oak and pine woods suggesting New Jersey pine barrens (Warm 

 Springs) and in sandy field of short grass (Atlantic Beach). In 

 central Florida the species intergrades with its geographic race 

 R. brevipenne peninsulare; north of that State the previous known 

 records for the species were Savannah, Waycross and Thomasville, 

 Georgia, and Greenville, Alabama. 



Tryxalis brevicornis (Linnaeus). 



Maryland. 

 Chestertown, VIII, 16-27, 1899-1902, 

 (E. G. Vanatta), 4 cf , 9 9, [A. N. 

 S. P.]. 

 Queen Anne County, VIII, 7, 1902, 

 i:. G. Vanatta). 1 cf, [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Washington, D. C, IX, 1883, 2 cf , 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 2 cf, 2 juv. cf. 

 Natural Bridge, IX, 12-13, 1907, 



(B. Long), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & EL), 



1 juv. 9 . 



North Carolina. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 1 cf, 29. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. 9 . 



South Carolina. 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 



1 juv, cf . 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 cf . 



Georgia. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (\V. T. 



Davis), 1 cf , 1 juv. cf . 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1908-09, (H. A. 



Allard), 2 cf, 2 9, [U. S.N. M.]. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 1 cf, 29. 

 Atlanta, VII, 29, 1910, 1 cf , [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Silver Lake, VIII, 10, 1913, 1 juv. 9 , 



[Ga. State Cln.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 

 Savannah, VIII, 7, 1878, (Grote), 



1 cf , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Columbus, VII, 16, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), lc? : . 

 Chase Prairie, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



IX, 5, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 cf • 



Alabama. 

 Decatur, (Shimek), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



Florida. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 4cf. 



Material from the Atlantic coast shows a slight increase in size 

 southward, the more robust individuals from southern Georgia and 

 from Florida have somewhat larger eyes and a broader vertex. 

 Males measure in length as follows: Anglesea, New Jersey, 19-22 

 mm.; Asheville, North Carolina (2,000 feet), 19.7-22.8; near Atlanta, 

 Georgia (1,000 feet), 19.2-21.6; Florence, South Carolina, 21.7-23; 

 Atlantic Beach, Florida, 24.3-25.3 mm. 



Five specimens are in the brown phase, two males and two young 

 from Fredericksburg and one female from Fayetteville; all of the 

 other specimens are of the more usual coloration. 




156 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



The present insect is very locally distributed in marshland. At 

 Fredericksburg it was found in high wet grasses in an upland depres- 

 sion. The species has been recorded from Long Island, New York, 

 and Point Pelee, Ontario, south to the Argentine Republic. 



Mermiria alacris Scudder. 



North Carolina. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.; 



scarce in gallberry and wire-grass 



under scattered short-leaf pines), 



5cT. 

 Southern Pines, early XI, 1908, (A. H. 



Manee), 1 d\ 19; 1905, 2 d\ 19, 



[all N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.; 



in long-leaf pine woods), 1<?. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.; 



common in pine woods), 11 d\ 12 9 . 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.; 



in grasses in short-leaf pine woods), 



1 d\ 19. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H.; in short-leaf pine woods under- 

 growth), 1 cf. 



South Carolina. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 in grass bunches on bare area), 



2 juv. 9 . 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.; 

 in tall brush in long-leaf pine woods), 



1<F. 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.; in 

 undergrowth in short-leaf pine 

 woods), Id 1 . 



Georgia. 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.; in 



grass, vines and oak sprouts in 



clearing), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.; in 



grasses in sandy scrub-oak area and 



in short grasses in old overgrown 



fields), 1 d\ 8 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



4 juv. d\ 4 juv. 9. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.; in pine 



woods undergrowth), 4 d 1 - 

 Billy's Island, VI and VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d\ 5 juv. d% 3 juv. 9 . 

 Albany, IX, 1910, 1 9 , [Ga. State 



Cln.]; VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.; in 



undergrowth of pine woods), 2 <j\ 

 Bainbridge, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d", [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 d\ 3 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 , 



[Ga. State Cln.]. 



Florida . 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.; 

 in undergrowth of pine and among 

 scrub oak on very sandy soil), 20 d 71 , 

 7 9; (T. J. Priddey), 1 d\ [Hebard 

 Cln.]; VIII, 1885 and 1886, (W. H. 

 Ashmead), 1 d\ 2 9 , [Hebard Cln.]; 

 IX, 28, 1913, (W. T. Davis), Id* 

 and 1 9 in coitu, [Davis Cln.]. 



Titusville, XI, 8, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 

 1 9 , [Davis Cln.]. 



We have examined, in the Scudder Collection, two males and three 

 females of the original series of two males and four females on which 

 Scudder founded his Mermiria vigilans. In consequence we can 

 fully endorse Morse's synonymy of vigilans under the present species. 40 

 At a later date we will speak in more detail of the variability of this 

 interesting dry-land form. 



The known distribution of alacris in the eastern States extends 

 from east-central and central (Salisbury, on the basis of immature 

 individuals not seen by us) North Carolina and northern Georgia 

 (Toccoa), south to central Florida (Cedar Keys, Sanford and Titus- 

 ville). 



"Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. 68, p. 27, (1907). 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



L57 



Mermiria intertexta Scudder. 



Virginia. 

 Ocean View, VIII. 9, (A. X. Caudell), 



4 d\ 19, [U. S. X. M.]. 



JVoWA Carolina. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (K. cV- H.; 



in salt marsh vegetation), 1 cf . 

 Smith Island, X, 1906, (F. Sherman), 



2 9, [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 



Smith < 'arolina. 



Coast of South Carolina, 1 cf. [Hebard 



Cln.]. 

 Isle of Palms VIII, 15, 1913, (R.; in 



shin oak, bayberrv, palmetto and 



briar thickets anions dunes), 1 cf, 



19. 



Georgia. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.; 

 fairly plentiful in high grasses 



growing in water on edge of sail 

 marsh i. 27 o\ 12 9; VII, 26, 1913, 

 1 juv. 9, [Ga. State CL 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 5 cf, 2 9, [Davis 



Cln.]. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.; fairly common in high saw grass 



and reeds in marsh), 11 cf , 8 9 . 

 Pablo Beach, IX, 3-17, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 7 cf, 5 9, [Davis Cln.]. 

 Long Boat, Sarasota Key, 1 cf, [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Useppa Island, Charlotte Harbor, V, 



17-19, 1915, (H), 1 juv. c% [Hebard 



Cln.l. 



This is the species recorded by us from Pablo Beach and Cedar 

 Keys, Florida, as vigilans. 41 It is distinctly a hygrophilous species, 

 found in both fresh and salt marsh situations, but occasionally stray- 

 ing into adjacent dune vegetation. 



Mermiria bivittata Serville. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, VII, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 19, [A. X. S. P.]. 



In addition to this specimen, we have before us six males and two 

 females labelled, "Georgia. H. K. Morrison," from the Scudder 

 Collection and that of the United States National Museum, those 

 from the former having been correctly determined as this species by 

 Scudder. The male from Fort Barrancas, Florida, correctly recorded 

 by Morse. 42 is also before us. The single male specimen from Pablo 

 Beach, Florida, recorded by the present authors as i?itertexla, i3 belongs 

 to this species, the exact relationship of which has never been clearly 

 determined. In the near future we intend to critically study this 

 genus in its entirety. 



The present species is only known in the southeastern States, 

 i.e., east of Alabama, from the localities mentioned above and from 

 Havelock, North Carolina (Sherman and Brimley). 



Syrbula admirabilis (Uhler). 



Virginia. 

 Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H), 1 juv. cf . 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H), 1 cf, 1 juv. cf, 4 juv. 9. 



( )range. VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H), 1 cf , 



19, 2 juv. cf. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 cf , 1 juv. cf , 2 juv. 9 . 



41 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 286, (1907). 



42 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. 18, p. 29, (1904). 



43 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1907 p. 286, (1907). 




158 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. <?. 

 ViBginia Beach, IX, 15, 1907, (B. 



Long), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 5 d\ 



19,1 juv. d\ 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. d\ 3 juv. 9. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d" , 1 juv. <?, 2 juv. 9. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d% 2 juv. 9. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 39. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



29. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 



South Carolina. 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 d\ 



1 juv. d". 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 8 d\ 



29. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf , 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 29. 



Georgia . 



Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 2 juv. 9 . 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 3 d\ 



19. 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.), 1 d\ 2 9. 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard),2 d\ [U.S. N. M.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 19, 1 juv. 9. 



A decided increase in size is found in the southward distribution 

 of the present species. A female from North Woodbury, New Jersey, 

 is exceptionally large for material from that State. Length of females : 

 West Creek, New Jersey, 32.7-33.4; North Woodbury, N. J., 40.4; 

 Asheville, N. C. (2,000 feet), 32.5-35; Fayetteville, N. C, 37.5-39; 

 Jacksonville, Fla., 38.5-40; Miami, Fla., 45.2 mm. 



In the entire series of this species nearly all the adult males are 

 in the brown phase, very few showing any trace of green or 

 greenish coloration. In these few specimens this color is obscure 

 and confined to the head and lateral lobes of the pronotum. Of 

 the adult females before us, eleven are of the brown phase, the paler 

 tegminal markings alone suffused with greenish in several of these, 

 ten are intermediate between the brown and green phases, while 

 sixty-eight are of the green phase. It is interesting to note that in 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 

 1913, (Bradlev, R. & H.), 4 d% 1 9 . 



Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. & 

 H.), 1 d\ 19. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.>, 

 2 d\ 5 juv. cf. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



1 <?. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



8 d\ 3 9, 2 juv. 9. 

 Columbus, VII 16, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 <?. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 



29. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 &. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 49. 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



8 <?. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 1 d\ 

 Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d\ 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 cf, 19,2 juv. 9. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 17-X, 19, 1910, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 cT. 

 Spring Creek, VI, VII, VIII, 1911-13, 



(J. C. Bradley), 10 . d", 6 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 10 d\ 89; IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 

 Davis), 2 d". 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 4 d 1 , 19. 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



the present series of young, twenty-five are of the green phase and 

 fourteen are of the brown, irrespective of sex. 



The species was found most abundant on sandy soil overgrown 

 with wire-grass and other low plants in areas of scrub oak and pine 

 (Jacksonville), but was also found widely distributed through the 

 undergrowth of pine and mixed forests and in fields and weedy 

 areas, particularly in somewhat damp situations. The insect is known 

 on the Atlantic coast from Medford, New Jersey, south to Miami, 

 Florida, and is found in the Appalachian valleys as high as 2,000 feet; 

 north of Maryland the species is decidedly scarce, and it is known 

 from southern Florida from but a single specimen. 



Eritettix simplex (Scudder). 



Maryland. North Carolina. 



Laurel, V, 14, VI, 4, 1911, (Marshall), Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



21 o\ 9 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 3 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9 . 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 19. Black Mountain, VI, 1912, (W. Beu- 



Pineypoint, VI, 17, (Pergande), 19, tenmiiller), 19, [Davis Cln.]. 



[U. S. X. M.l. 



South Carolina. 



Virginia. Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 1 J uv - <?. 



H.), 3 juv. <?, 1 juv. 9. Georgia. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



3 juv. cf. 1 cT. 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), Thompson's Mills, IV, 1910, (H. A. 



'2 juv. o\ 1 juv. 9 • Allard), 2 d\ 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 2 juv. cT. 2 juv. o\ 2 juv. 9 . 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



The series of young from Fredericksburg, Orange and Petersburg 

 average about 0.5 mm. in length, those from Lynchburg and Greens- 

 boro 7.2, w r hile the remainder average about 8.4 mm. In such very 

 early stages w r e find supplementary carinse weakly indicated on the 

 pronotum in five of the seventeen smallest specimens, and somewhat 

 more strongly but to varying degrees in five of the seven larger young, 

 while one of the latter has these carinse very weakly continued on the 

 head. All of these immature examples are of the more normal color 

 forms, excepting one male from Atlanta which has the dorsal surface of 

 head and pronotum uniformly black. These young individuals 

 have the median pronotal stripe present in the specimens which 

 have indications of supplementary carina?; examination of the series of 

 one hundred and fifty-nine adults of the present species in the col- 

 lections before us shows that the individuals having a strongly 

 defined median stripe have strongly defined supplementary carinse, 

 while those having the dorsum of the pronotum unicolorous wholly 

 lack supplementary carinse. 




160 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



The present series of very small young all have short, flattened 

 antennae with apices weakly clavate. 



The southeastern limits of the known distribution of the species 

 are defined by some of the records given above. 



The present material was taken in campestral surroundings; in 

 short grasses, usually on uplands, but on the flat country just below 

 the fall line at Augusta. The young were abundant at Greensboro, 

 elsewhere they were occasional or very scarce. 



Macneillia obscura Scudder. 



Live Oak, Florida, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9,2 juv. tf. 

 Gotha, Fla., 1 <? , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Both of the above females are Vandyke brown in general coloration, 

 one has the dorsal median section of the pronotum between the 

 supplementary carina? (which in this specimen are distinct) and the 

 corresponding portion of the head clay color; the other specimen 

 is unicolorous, the lateral carina? alone outlined in clay color, and 

 has no indication whatever of supplementary carina?. 44 Study of 

 the series of forty-five adults and young of this rare species in the col- 

 lections before us, shows that the supplementary carina?, when present, 

 become more decided as a median stripe becomes more prominent. 

 Specimens having a wholly unicolorous dorsum of the pronotum 

 entirely lack supplementary carina?; we find this to be likewise true 

 in the species of the genus Eritettix. 



The specimens from Live Oak, the most northern locality at which 

 this insect has been found, were taken on the side of a depression 

 near a sink hole, where the deforested ground was covered with wire- 

 grass and clumps of a dwarf oak growing knee-high. 



Amblytropidia occidentalis (Saussure). 



North Carolina. 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R, & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. a", 3 juv. 9 . 



Lake Ellis, V, 14, 1906, 1 d", [U. S. 



N. M.]. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 juv. 9 . 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 1 juv. 9. 



South Carolina. 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 o\ 2 juv. <?, 7 juv. 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 • 

 Manning, V, 28, 1914, (W. Stone), 



3 <?, 19, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



9 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 juv. o% 1 juv. 9 . 



44 Unfortunately the authors in speaking of such unicolorous specimens used 

 "lateral carina}" where "supplementary carinse" was meant. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912. p. 251, (1912). " 




11)10.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



161 



Hebardville, V. 15, L915, (H.), 1 <?. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



(R. & II.), 2 juv.9. 

 Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



Swamp, V, It), 1915, (H.), 1 9. 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 4 cf, 2 9. 



Honey Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 3 o", 3 9. 



Finn, I, i. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 mead), 3 juv. o", 2 juv.9, [Hebard 

 Cln.]. 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 1 juv. cf. 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. 9. 



Daytona, XI, 11, 1911, (G. P. Engle- 

 hardt), 2 9 , [B. I.]. 



Georgia. 



Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 4-5, 1913, 



II.). 2 juv.9. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, 1,000 feet, 



VIII, 3, 1913, (K. & 11.), 1 juv. 

 \ 1 juv. 9. 

 Macon, VII. 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. 9. 

 Warm Springs, 850-1,200 feet, VII, 9- 



10, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. cT, 1 juv. 9. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



4 juv. 9 . 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. 9 . 

 [sle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. _■", 2 juv. 9. 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. o", 2 juv. 9 • 

 Jesup, IX, 1,1911, (R. &H.), 1 juv.o"; 



XII, 1908, (H.), 1 d\ 29. 

 Honierville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. <?. 



There is little individual and almost no geographic variation in 

 size in the adults of the above series, the specimens from Billy's and 

 Honey Islands being of similar dimensions to individuals from 

 Raleigh, North Carolina. 



The usual polychromatism is noticed in the adults. The 

 smaller young show both green and brown phases, the presence of 

 the former phase, which is never found in the adult condition, appar- 

 ently pointing to the greater primitiveness of this type of coloration. 

 In the earlier stages immature examples show a decided multilineate 

 coloration accompanied by an infuscation of the face, which is quite 

 distinctive, little suggestive, however, of the coloration of the adult. 

 As growth progresses the browns become more evident, and in the 

 third instar preceding maturity the greens have largely disappeared. 

 In the second instar preceding maturity such peculiarities as the 

 black edgings of the median carina of the pronotum, occasionally 

 found in adults, become evident. 



While generally taken in grass and brush in pine or pine and oak 

 woods, the young of this species are occasionally found in oak groves. 



Orphulella pelidna (Burmeister). 



Maryland. 

 Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 1 o*. 



Virginia. 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 14 cf, 16 9. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



5 d\ 39. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 5 cf, 5 9. 



North Carolina. 

 VVeldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 <?, 49. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



5 o",3 9. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 (7,29. 




162 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H)., 



2 d\ 49. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



10 cf, 10 9. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



29. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 1 d\ 4 9. 



South Carolina. 



Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 19. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 3 9. 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 d", 7 9. 



Sumter, V, 30, 1914, (W. Stone), 



19, [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Manning, V, 23 to 30, 1914, (W. 



Stone), 1 J, 19,4 juv. 9 , [A. N. 



5 P 1 



Isle' of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



3^,39. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



12 c?, 12 9. 



Georgia. 



Clayton, 2,000-3,700 feet, VII, 1910, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 3 d\ 



29. 

 Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 5, 



1913, (H.), 1 d\ 19. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 1 d\ 



1 juv. 9 • 

 Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 2 d\ 2 9 . 

 Austell, VIII, 6, 1910, 1 tf 1 , [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Atlanta, VI, 26, 1913, 1 d\ 1 9, [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 c?,19. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 4 d% 5 9. 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard), 2 d\ 8 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



6 d\ 7 9. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



4 d\ 119. 



Monticello, VIII, 2, 1905, (Titus), 



1 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



2 d\ 7 9. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



5 <?, 89. 



Tifton, IX, 8, 1910, 1 9 , [Ga. State 



Cln.]. 

 Bainbridge, VII, 15, 1912; IX, 3-7, 



IX, 17-X, 19, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 



6 d\ 79. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, VII, 



16-29, 1912, VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 18 d\ 20 9 . 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



13 d 1 , 6 9. 

 Waycross, V, 11, 1910, 1 d*, [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 d\ 



19. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 5 d\ 4 9. 

 Billy's Island, V, 28-VII, 1912, IX, 



1-5, 1913, (J. C. Bradlev), 56 d\ 



37 9, 2 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 

 Jordans, Billy's Island, VIII, 31, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 d\ 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 

 Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d\ 1 9, 1 juv. 9 . 

 Mixon's Hammock, VI, 16, 1912, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 c?. 

 Fargo, VIII, 31, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 3 d\ 



79. 

 Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 d% 29. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 d\ 39. 

 Sandfly, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 d\ 



29. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 d\ 19. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. & H), 7^,89. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 7 d\ 3 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911," (R. & 



H.), 6 d\ 49; XI, 3 and 5, 1911, 



(W. T. Davis), 2^,49. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 6 d", 19 9. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 d 1 , 69. 

 Lakeland, V, 4, 1912, XI, 8, 1911, 



(W. T. Davis), 5 d\ 5 9. 

 Punta Gorda, XI, 11-16, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 3 d\ 5 9. 

 Fort Myers, III, 30 and IV, 24, 1912, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 d\ 19. 

 La Belle, IV, 27, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 



19. 

 South Bay, Lake Okeechobee, V, 1 



and 2, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 1 d\ 



1 9. 

 Everglade, IV, 5, 1912, (W. T. Davis), 



19. 

 Deep Lake, IV, 13, 1912, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d\ 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



The present series of five hundred and thirty-five specimens 

 exhibits the almost endless variation in size, the numerous structural 

 and proportional modifications and all the pure and compound color 

 phases found in this extremely plastic species. In the matter of 

 wing length we find both one of the most abbreviate females and 

 the most macropterous one of the same sex in the Lynchburg series. 

 The macropterous one of these measures 22.5 mm. in length of body 

 and 21.5 mm. in length of tegmen, while the abbreviate one has the 

 same proportions, 21.5 and 17.4, respectively. The only noteworthy 

 color modification is seen in the Isle of Palms series, which, taken 

 among the dunes of a barrier beach, is prevailingly grayish, two 

 of the females having almost no distinct markings, in this respect 

 much resembling 0. olivacea, with which this species was there 

 associated. 



Certain specimens from Punta Gorda, Florida, particularly one 

 female, show a tendency toward the new 0. halophila occurring in 

 the same general region, but this is purely one of general resemblance 

 and not of close affinity. This apparent divergence from the basic 

 type is not true of all the individuals from that locality, as others 

 are perfectly typical of pelidna. 



As to the synonymy of Orphulella pratorum Scudder with the 

 present species, it seems only necessary to say that the more material 

 seen by us the more certain are we of the correctness of the association. 

 This specie's was found over the whole region treated in the present 

 paper, frequenting the greatest variety of habitats, from salt marsh 

 grass (in company with olivacea at Tybee Island and Wrightsville) , 

 to barren hillsides (Fredericksburg) and mountain slopes under 

 timber in a luxuriant undergrowth of grasses, vines and oak sprouts 

 (Currahee Mountain). The undergrowth in pine woods, i.e., gall- 

 berry, bunch and wire-grass, seems to be more preferred than cam- 

 pestrian situations. At Isle of Palms this species and olivacea were 

 found in the dry hollows of dunes among vegetation composed of 

 bayberry, Myrica cerifera, scrubby oak, briars and cabbage palmetto, 

 Sabal palmetto. 



Orphulella olivacea (Morse). 



Virginia. South Carolina. 



Franklin, Accomac County, IX, 22, Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 

 1907, (B. Long), 1 9 , [A. X. 8. P.]. 1 <?. 



Georgia. 



North Carolina. Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 14 cf, 18 9. 



2 9 . Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Florida.** Texas. 



Pablo Beach, VIII, 12, 1905, (R. &H.), Galveston, VII, 19-21, 1912, (H.), 



I cf. 11 <?, 59. 



Cedar Keys, VIII, 15, 1905, (R. & H.), Virginia Point, VII, 21, 1912, (H.), 



II cf, 12 9. 8 c?, 12 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Corpus Christi, VII, 29, 1912, (H.), 

 29. 



The study of the present series of this and the following species, 

 as well as material of olivacea from New England and New Jersey- 

 brings out three points of interest. First, that olivacea increases 

 in size southward, the Tybee Island and Cedar Keys specimens being 

 appreciably larger than New England and New Jersey individuals. 

 Second, the range of this species covers the coastal marshes and 

 portions of the beaches from southern New England (Norwich, Con- 

 necticut) south to north Florida (Pablo 'Beach), also along the Gulf 

 coast from Cedar Keys, Florida, to Texas, as far south as Corpus 

 Christi, the two portions of the range being completely separated. 

 Third, that in similar environment in south-central and southern 

 Florida and southern Texas, north to Corpus Christi, olivacea is 

 replaced by an allied species, which does not intergrade with the more 

 northern form and is found associated with it at Corpus Christi. 



A critical examination of all of our material from fifteen localities 



extending from Connecticut to Texas shows a regular size increase 



in both sexes as one proceeds -southward to northern Florida, the 



size increase being accompanied by a broadening and blunting of the 



fastigium, specimens from Greenwich, Connecticut, and Cedar Keys, 



Florida, being quite different in the latter feature. Considering the 



Texan material, it is seen that the beach specimens (Galveston and 



Corpus Christi) are somewhat smaller than individuals taken in 



the salt marsh of the bays (Virginia Point), the series from the 



latter place averaging as large as the Cedar Keys specimens taken 



in the same environment. Measurements (in millimeters) of 



average individuals and pairs from a number of localities are as 



follows: 



Greenwich, Conn. Atlantic City, Franklin City, 

 (Paratypes). N. J. Va. 



cf 9 c? 9 9 



Lengthofbody 17. 21.5 17.8 24.3 26 5 



Length of pronotum 3.2 3.9 3.7 4.3 5. 



Length of tegmen 14.6 16.8 15. 19.8 21.4 



45 These specimens have been recorded by the authors (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1907, p. 287, (1907)) as O. pelidna? These individuals are extremely 

 large olivacea, differing also, as here shown, from northern specimens of the 

 species in having the fastigium somewhat aberrant. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



\Y rights ville, Esle of Palms, Tybcc Island, 



N.C. S. C. Ga. 



9 <? o* 9 



Length of body 27.8 17.4 19.3 26.2 



Length of pronotum I '.» 3.4 4. ">. 



Length of tegmen..' 21.9 15.7 It). 7 21.5 



Pablo Beach, Cedar Keys, Galveston, 



Fla. Fla. ' Tex. 



c? o". 9 o" 9 



Length of body 20.3 20. 27. 18.5 23.7 



Length of pronotum 4.1 4.1 5. 3.8 4.5 



Length of tegmen 18.1 16.9 22.8 . 16.3 18.6 



Virginia Point, Corpus Christi, 

 Tex. Tex. 



<7 9 9 



Length of body 21.1 27.5 26.8 



Length of pronotum 5.2 5.3 5. 



Length of tegmen '. 17.5 23.4 20.8 



The Isle of Palms male was taken among the dunes of a barrier 

 beach, entirely away from the true salt-marsh habitat, which may 

 account for the small size of the specimen. The specimens from the 

 vicinity of salt pans with Salicomia and similar vegetation, a type of 

 situation where the species occurred at Galveston and Corpus Christi, 

 exhibit, as the measurements above show, a somewhat depauperate 

 form when compared with specimens from the salt marsh, which is 

 the typical habitat of the species. Apparently the action of environ- 

 ment is seen in these beach specimens in the reduction of wing length 

 and to a certain degree in the coloration, both of which are similar 

 to the condition found in the allied 0. halophila, which as far as 

 known invariably frequents the vicinity of salt pans. Tegminal 

 length as a general thing is a somewhat variable factor in 0. olivacea, 

 the Tybee series showing one female with a body length of 33.3 mm. 

 and a tegminal length of 25, while in this respect almost as much 

 variation either way from the measured specimen is found in the 

 same sex in the Virginia Point series. The general bulk and pronotal 

 length, however, follow the rule laid down above, the influence of a 

 somewhat changed environment on the beaches and flats resulting 

 there in a general size reduction, accompanied by a tegminal abbre- 

 viation much as in 0. halophila which frequents the same habitat. 



The range of this species, so far as known, does not extend south 



of Cedar Keys, Florida, and Corpus Christi, Texas, at the latter locality 



the species occurring with 0. halophila (see below), which replaces 



it southward. Texan olivacea are inseparable from eastern coast 



specimens, and similarly south Florida and south Texas halophila 



are inseparable. 

 12 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



At Wrightsville, Tybee Island, Sandfly and Virginia Point, this 

 species was found in salt marsh, associated with 0. pelidna at the 

 first two localities, while at Galveston and Corpus Christi it fre- 

 quented the flats and pans with Salicornia and similar vegetation. 



Orphulella halophila new species. PL XII, figs. 6, 7, 8. 



1912. Orphulella pelidna Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1912, p. 253. (In part.) [Records from Key West, Boot Key and Key 

 Vaca refer in part to halophila.] 



Allied to 0. olivacea (Morse), but differing in the more robust 

 form, the never strongly elongate tegmina, the shorter pronotum, 

 the more arcuate lateral carina of the pronotum and more inflated 

 caudal femora. 



Type: 9 ; Key West, Monroe County, Florida. July 3-7, 1912. 

 (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 31.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium; form moderately robust, 

 subcompressed. Head with occiput and interocular region regularly 

 arcuate when seen from the side, width of the interocular space 

 hardly narrower than the greatest fastigial width; fastigium much 

 broader than long (from cephalic margin of eyes), rectangulate in 

 outline, moderately impressed in a rather narrow subarcuate area 

 but little removed from the margin (fig. 7) ; when seen from the side 

 the fastigio-facial angle is moderately rounded, lateral foveolse very 

 elongate trigonal, well impressed; facial outline regularly though 

 but moderately oblique; frontal costa narrow at juncture with 

 fastigium, regularly widening ventrad, weakly sulcate dorsad of the 

 median ocellus; eyes one and one-half times as deep as the infra- 

 ocular sulcus is long, subovoid in shape, but moderately prominent 

 when seen from the dorsum; antennae slightly depressed proximad, 

 faintly tapering distad, considerably shorter than the head and 

 pronotum together. Pronotum with the greatest width across 

 ventral portion of the lateral lobes subequal to the greatest dorsal 

 length of the disk; lateral carinae moderately converging caiidad to 

 the second transverse sulcus, thence diverging caudad, both sections 

 slightly arcuate (fig. 7) ; cephalic margin of disk subtruncate, caudal 

 margin of disk obtusely arcuate; median carina of pronotum well 

 and evenly elevated, severed by the principal transverse sulcus 

 slightly caudad of the middle. Tegmina just reaching the tips of 

 the caudal femora, apex broadly rounded, when seen from the 

 lateral aspect and in repose the costal margin and the dorsal line of 

 the tegmen subparallel except for the slight proximal lobe; ulnar area 

 completely divided in two by a longitudinal spurious vein and in 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. L67 



consequence with a double scries of cells; discoidal area faintly 

 narrowing distad, with irregularly arranged small cells and showing 

 but faint indications of an intercalary vein. Interspace between 

 the mesosternal lobes quadrate, slightly longitudinal; interspace 

 between the metasternal lobes smalj, narrowed caudad, subcuneate. 

 Caudal femora moderately robust, the greatest depth contained 

 four times in the length; caudal tibiae with eleven spines on the 

 external margin. 



Allotype: d" ; same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype. — Differing from the description of the type 

 in the following particulars, aside from the usual sexual differences. 

 Size small. Head with impressed area of the fastigium more extensive 

 caudad; fastigio-facial angle more obtuse-angulate, facial outline 

 when seen from lateral aspect slightly more oblique; frontal costa 

 nearly subequal in width between the antennal bases and the median 

 ocellus, sulcate throughout, but more distinctly so dorsad; eyes 

 nearly twice as deep as the infra-ocular sulcus is long, while prominent, 

 still slightly compressed when seen from the dorsum; antennae in 

 length very faintly exceeding that of the head and pronotum together. 

 Pronotum very slightly narrower; lateral carinae subobliterated 

 between the first and second transverse sulci. Tegmina slightly 

 surpassing the tips of the caudal femora; ulnar area with large but 

 irregular cells, without a distinct spurious vein; discoidal area as 

 in female. Interspace between mesosternal lobes distinctly longitu- 

 dinal; metasternal lobes attingent caudad. Caudal femora with 

 the greatest depth contained three and one-half times in the length; 

 caudal tibiae with eleven spines on the external margin. 



The coloration of this species runs through the whole gamut of 

 units or phases found in certain other members of the genus, as 

 0. pelidna, showing much greater diversity than in the more closely 

 allied 0. olivacea. It seems unnecessary to more than summarize 

 the more striking of these units, between all of which there seem to 

 be regular intermediates. The males are much more uniform in 

 their coloration than is the case in the female sex. The green extreme 

 unit has the base color clear dull green-yellow (Ridgway) to chal- 

 cedony yellow, running to apple green and even rejane green, the 

 discoidal area of the tegmina with quadrate maculations of fuscous, 

 a distinct postocular suffusion present on head, dorsal portion of 

 lateral lobes and caudo-lateral portions of pronotal disk, the ventral 

 portions of the lateral lobes with or without fuscous linings and 

 hoary tints, the accessory lines on the occiput and femoral bars also 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



variable in presence or absence and solidarity. The brown extreme 

 is heavily mottled and suffused fuscous on a tawny-olive ground, 

 the dark markings around the lateral carinae of the pronotum strik- 

 ingly velvety black, the markings of the lateral lobes, tegmina and 

 femora not pronounced. Between these two extremes runs a series 

 of about five phases, each sufficiently distinct to the eye to be readily 

 recognizable. In one the color is uniform honey-yellow with almost 

 no markings, another is similar with the dark markings around the 

 lateral carinae velvety black and a narrow postocular bar fuscous, 

 with faint indications of tegminal maculations and a faint greenish 

 wash on the dorsum of the pronotum. Another has the whole pat- 

 tern, i.e., femoral markings, linings on lobes and pleura, dark areas 

 about carinae and very weak occipital lines and tegminal maculations, 

 indicated, but also entirely washed with ochraceous-salmon. 

 Another phase, apparently unusual, as it is seen only in males from 

 Point Isabel and a female from Boot Key, has the markings similar, 

 but is unsuffused and the base color is quite pale, in fact light buff. 

 The last of these phases is near the brown extreme, but it has the 

 tegminal markings decided and the base color somewhat paler. 

 In addition there crops out in three of the phases that peculiar wash- 

 ing of all or parts of the tegmina, and occasionally part or all of the 

 pronotum, with rich purple seen in a number of the species of this 

 very variable group. The type belongs to the green extreme and 

 the allotype is of a brownish phase which predominates in the' male 

 sex. 



Correlating the material by locality for possible color relation to 

 environment is productive of little positive data, as the more extreme 

 color phases are usually from localities represented by uniques or 

 very small series, while the extensive Key West series (thirty-four 

 specimens) shows very great diversity in itself. The pale markings 

 on the lateral carinae of the pronotum, frequently broken mesad, are 

 the most striking constant color feature of the species. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



Length of Length of Length of 



cf body. pronotum. tegmen. 



Key West, Fla., Allotype 17.5 3.5 13.4 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 18.7 3.7 15. 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 19. 3.5 14.2 



Key West, Fla. , Paratype 18. 3.5 14.4 



Corpus Christi, Tex 18.8 3.8 15.5 



Corpus Christi, Tex 17.5 3.5 15. 



Corpus Christi, Tex 18.2 3.5 14.3 



Length of 

 caudal 

 femur. 



9 



10. 

 10. 

 10. 

 11. 

 11. 



11.5 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1G9 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



9 body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Key WVm, Fla., Type 24.5 4.7 18. 13.9 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 24.3 4.5 16.9 12.9 



Key West, Fla., Paratype 21.5 4.5 17. 13. 



K«v West, Fla., Paratvpe 25.6 4.8 20. L4.2 



Corpus Christi, Tex 23.3 4.3 19.2 14.1 



Corpus Christi, Tex 26.3 5.1 20.7 15.5 



Corpus Christi, Tex 26. 4.8 20. 15.2 



It will be seen from the above measurements that the Texan 

 material has slightly longer femora in both sexes, but the difference 

 is extremely slight. The fastigium varies considerably in the degree 

 of angulation, particularly in the male sex, occasionally being dis- 

 tinctly acute-angulate in that sex, while in the female it sometimes 

 is faintly obtuse-angulate. The lateral carinse of the pronotum vary 

 much as they do in 0. olivacea, being more inbowed in some specimens 

 than in others, in fact almost subparallel cephalad in occasional 

 individuals, while very frequently in the males and less frequently 

 in the females they are distinctly subobsolete between the first and 

 second transverse sulcus. The individual variation in tegminal 

 length is less than usual in the present genus. 



We have before us a series of seventy-one specimens of this inter- 

 esting species. The localities represented and data on the material 

 are as follows : 



Punta Gorda, Florida, XI, 16, 1911, Key West, Fla., I, 20, 1904, (H.); 



(W. T. Davis), 1 9 . Ill, 15-16, 1910, (H.); VII, 3-7, 



Marco, Fla., IV, 17 and 20, 1912, 1912, (R. & H.), 12 c?\ 22 9, type, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 cf, 3 9 . allotype and paratvpes. 



Key Vaca, Fla., Ill, 14, 1910, (H.), Corpus Christi, Texas, VII, 29, 1912, 



1 o". (H.), 9 <?, 12 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Boot Key, Fla., Ill, 14, 1910, (H.), Point Isabel, Tex., VIII, 2, 1912, 



1 d\ 19. (H.), 3 o". 



Big Pine Key, Fla., VII, 6, 1912, Tampico, Tamaulipas, Mexico, XII, 



(R. & H.), 1 o". 1906, 1 o", 2 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 



The above localities show that the range of this species is dis- 

 continuous, the two regions in which it occurs being separated by an 

 area, i.e., the greater portion of the Gulf coast of the United States, 

 where O. olivacea replaces it in the same environment. We can 

 only speculate as to the centre in which the species originated, but 

 in view of the accumulating evidence bearing on the Mexican origin 

 of certain south Florida Orthoptera it is not at all impossible that 

 this species in the past reached the eastern portion of its present 

 distribution from Mexico, and possibly by way of Yucatan. 



It is evident from the data in hand that the species occurs through- 

 out the entire year, material being before us taken every month in 

 the year except February, May, June, September and October. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



It seems probable to us that the present species is the one referred 

 to as 0. zapoteca (Saussure) by Scudder, 46 his specimens having been 

 from Corpus Christi Bay, Texas; Mexico; Venis Mecas, Mexico; 

 San Mateo del Mar, Tehuantepec, Mexico; Guatemala, and Realejo, 

 Nicaragua. Our material runs to this species in his key and the 

 three exact localities given by him with which we are familiar, or 

 can locate, are in the maritime region frequented by this species. 

 The use of Saussure's name, however, does not appear warranted, as, 

 while the description is brief, it appears to apply more satisfactorily 

 to one of the peculiarly Mexican forms of the genus. 



The habitats frequented by the species were all quite similar; at 

 Key West individuals being common in Salicornia and other halo- 

 phytes growing on almost bare coral rock in the mangrove region 

 at the east end of the island, on Big Pine Key the species was taken 

 among mangroves, while on Key Vaca and Boot Key it occurred 

 under much the same conditions as at Key West. At Corpus 

 Christi and Point Isabel the species frequented saline adobe flats 

 with low halophytic vegetation. 



Orphulella speciosa (Scudder). 



Glen Echo, Maryland, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 2 d\ 2 9 . 

 District of Columbia, VIII, 11, 1883, 1 <?, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Fredericksburg, Virginia., VII, 20, 1913, (R. & H.), IS &, 31 9. 



At Fredericksburg this northern type was fairly abundant and 

 widely distributed, especially in short grasses on the uplands bor- 

 dering the valley of the Rappahannock. These are portions of the 

 rounded escarpment of the Piedmont region, and it seems probable 

 that in Virginia this species does not occur on the coastal plain. The 

 present form is more distinctly a species of short-grass areas than 

 0. pelidna. 



Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). 



Virginia. Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), 2 juv. cf . „ 2 <f » 19 ' U^V^oi j uv ; w 9 ' . „ * 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



H.), 9 J 89. 4o% 39. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 d% La T ke Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



3 9,1 juv. 9. H -)> 3 cf, 3 9. 



Petersburg, VII, 23 1913, (R. & H.), ^ Car(Mna 



Cf ' ' JU Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf. 



North Carolina. Manning, V, 23 and 30, 1914, (W. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), Stone), 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 , [A. N. 



2 d\ 19. S. P.]. 



46 Can. Ent., XXXI, p. 180, (1899). 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



Yemassee, IX. 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 2 cf, 3 9. 



Georgia. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 19, 1 juv. 9. 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & B.), 



l 

 Columbus, VII, 16, 1913, 1 d\ [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Oglethorpe, Macon County, VII, 1 



and 31, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d\ 



19. 

 Albanv, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 5 9, 



1 juv. 9. 

 'niton. IX, S, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 



1 o". 



Spring Creek. VIII, 26-28, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 19. 

 Bainbridge, V, 31-VI, 1, 1911; VII, 



15, 1912; IX. 17-X, 19, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 3 o", 69. 

 Hoinerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 d 1 , 49. 



Billy's [sland, VI-VII, 1912; IX, 1-5, 

 XII, 20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 8 d\ 

 10 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



.Ionian's, Billy's [sland, VIII, 31, 1913, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 d". 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 d\ 



59; XII, (II.), 1 9. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, ill.), 19. 

 St. Simon's Island. VIII. 30, L911, 



(R. & II.), 19; IX-X, 1910, 1 d\ 



1 9, IGa. State Cln.]. 

 Cumberland Island. VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & H), 4 d", 2 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25. 1911, (R. & EL), 

 19; VIII, 1885, (W. H. Ashmead), 

 10 d\ 89, [Hebard Cln.]; XI, 5, 



1911, (W. T. Davis i, Id 1 , 29. 

 South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 d 1 , 2 9. 

 Ortega, Duval County, IX, 6, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 d 1 . 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 8 d 1 , 12 9. 

 Pablo Beach, IX, 5 and 27, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 5 d\ 79. 

 Live Oak, VII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 o*. 



An examination of the above series and material from the north- 

 eastern States shows that as a rule the fastigium is blunter in the 

 more southern specimens, particularly in the female sex. Occasional 

 individuals from Georgia localities have the angle of this same region 

 similar to that found in Pennsylvania and New Jersey specimens, 

 but by far the majority show a distinct broadening of the fastigium. 

 The size varies individually in any considerable series and there 

 appears to be no geographic tendency in this feature. 



There is a slight preponderance of the green phase, while the 

 brown individuals show a maculate, a simply punctulate and a 

 plain form. The green phase males show a decided amount of 

 variation in the infuscation of the lateral aspect, this being almost 

 blackish in certain specimens (Oglethorpe, Billy's Island, Pablo 

 Beach and Atlantic Beach), paling until, in two Lake Waccamaw 

 males, there is no infuscation except the carinal lines and their 

 tegminal continuations. 



In the present series no specimens are macropterous, the tegmina 

 falling short of the apex of the abdomen in all. 



The species is a lover of weedy spots, grassy fields and damp 

 overgrown depressions, occurring frequently in abundance. It is 

 occasionally found in grasses in pine woods (Weldon, Goldsboro 

 and Jacksonville). 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Clinocephalus elegans Morse. 



1905. Clinocephalus pulcher Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1905, p. 36. [Miami, Florida.] 



Maryland. Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 d\ 



Piney Point, VIII, 12, 1880, 19, „ 1 9 • 



[Hebard Cln 1 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



v 'J r ,. (R.&H.),1 juv.9. 



North Carolina. JesuP) IX , l, 1911, (R. & H.), 21 <?, 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 9 9. 



lie?, 3 9. Billy's Island, VII, 1912; IX, 1-5, 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 9,2 juv. 9 . 



H.), 11 c?, 7 9 , 1 juv. 9 . Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), H.), 2 <?, 2 9. 



11 c?, 5 9 . Hebardville, VIII, 28, 1911, (H.), 1 9 . 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



27 c?, 30 9. 22 c?, 7 9, 1 juv.9. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), FlorUa 



South Carolina. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 c?, 29, 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 



3 cf, 2 juv. 9. Davis), 3 d\ 1 9. 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



23 c?, 35 9 . (R. & H.), 12 c?, 12 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Georgia. Texas. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), Webster, Harris County, VII, 19, 1912, 



9 c?, 99. (H.), 2 c?. 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 11 c?, Dickinson, Galveston Countv, VII, 



59. 20, 1912, (H.), 3 c?. 



A critical examination of this material shows that in the southern 

 part of its range the species varies away from the more northern 

 type, much as do Orphulella olivacea and Chortophaga viridifasciata, 

 the general size, as a rule, increasing southward and the fastigium 

 there becoming appreciably broader and blunter. Material from 

 Miami, Florida, has been separated from true elegans by the authors, 

 who first considered it to represent a full species, Clinocephalus 

 pulcher, and later regarded it as a geographic race of elegans. 47 

 Specimens from as far north as St. Simon's Island, Georgia, were con- 

 sidered representative of pulcher, the characters of which were also 

 analyzed on the basis of Florida material. 48 In the light of the 

 additional collections now available, it seems best to place this 

 name unreservedly in synonymy. The characters are not decided 

 or constant enough in our opinion to justify the retention of the 

 name, the recognition of a geographic race requiring, it appears 

 to us, more uniformity in, and more significance to, its differential 

 characters over at least the greater portion of its range. The gradual 

 increase in size and the broadening and bluntening of the fastigium 



47 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 588, (1911). 



48 Ibid., 1907, p. 287, (1907). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



southward are features shared by a number of species, which differ- 

 ences, uncorrected with other characters, we do not feel are suf- 

 ficiently clear cut to constitute racial criteria, the two extremes in 

 this case grading gradually into one another instead of showing 

 uniformity over definite areas and intergradation over relatively 

 smaller ones. 



The previous analysis of the characters of pulcher covered the 

 supposedly diagnostic features, i.e., size, tegminal length, fastigial 

 form, frontal costa and color. A re-examination of these features 

 shows that the general size as a rule follows the usual increase in 

 size southward, but that in the series from Lake Waccamaw, Winter 

 Park, Yemassee, Jesup, Tybee Island and Sandfly we find individ- 

 uals of both sexes which are similar in this respect to New Jersey, 

 and others to southern Florida, specimens. Regarding the relative 

 length of the tegmina, we find no specimens in the present material 

 with tegmina as long as south Florida representatives, but each 

 series shows a considerable degree of individual variation in this 

 respect in both sexes. The four females from Jacksonville all 

 have the tegmina very short, not surpassing the middle of the third 

 abdominal segment, lanceolate and acute. The form of the fastigium 

 shows a general uniform broadening southward, but, like the length 

 measurement, occasional individuals of both sexes have it as narrow 

 and as much angulate as in New Jersey specimens. The sulcation 

 of the frontal costa varies greatly in degree, to a certain extent 

 geographically, but to a greater one individually. 



As we have said before, the more southern specimens exhibit color 

 patterns not observed in more northern individuals. This statement 

 holds true in the light of the present material, the extreme trilineate 

 form being suggested in but a few individuals, these from southern 

 Georgia, although blackish or largely blackish specimens are present 

 in the Wilmington, Lake Waccamaw, Yemassee, Sandfly, Homer- 

 ville, Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach series. These blackish speci- 

 mens are females and without exception they were taken on wet 

 black ground in swampy situations. 



The Texas specimens are inseparable from Georgia individuals 

 and the range of the species is considerably extended by these 

 records. In the southern States the species is found at greater 

 distances from the coast line than is the case to the northward, but 

 nowhere has the species been found above the fall line; Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, being the farthest inland locality from which it is 

 known. The range extends from western Long Island, New York 




174 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



(Ravenswood), south to Key West, Florida, west to eastern Texas 

 (Webster and Dickinson), extending inland as far as Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, Homerville, Georgia, and Flomaton, Alabama. 



The species always occurs in moist areas, and in the region here 

 treated often in woodland, generally among bracken, reeds or grasses, 

 but occasionally on black water-soaked ground covered with low 

 swamp plants. The vicinity of a wet depression or the tangled border 

 of a swampy tract of pine or cypress is particularly frequented. 



Chloealtis conspersa Harris. 



Glen Echo, Maryland, VII, 10, 1914, Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, (H.; 



(H.; luxuriant grasses and other veg- area of Andropogon and other 



etation on hill slopes covered with low grasses), 1 d, 19. 

 scattered pines), 6 d, 6 9. 



The present records extend considerably the known range of this 

 northern species southward near the Atlantic Coast; in the Appalach- 

 ians it is found at high elevations as far south as North Carolina. 

 The series here considered is composed of large individuals and the 

 females are all of the normal condition with greatly reduced tegmina 

 and wings. 



Arphia xanthoptera (Burmeister). 



District of Columbia. 

 Washington, IX, 23, 1883, 1 9 , [Hebard 



Cln._ 



Virginia. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.) 



2 juv. d. 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.) 



1 juv. 9 . 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.) 



3 juv. 9 . 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.) 



2 juv. cf, 19. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.) 



1 juv. cf. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.) 



1 d, 1 juv. d, 1 juv. 9. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.) 



1 juv. d . 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R.&H.), 2 d 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.) 



1 cf, 29. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.) 



5(^,39. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.) 



2 d. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.) 



5 d, 29. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.) 



3 d, 1 juv. 9. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



1 d. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 d, 5 9. 



Georgia. 



Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 



2 juv. d- 



Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 2 



juv. d, 1 juv. 9. 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.), 2 juv. 9. 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard), 2 d, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 • 



Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. & 



H.), Id; IX, 12, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. &H.), 1 juv. d, 1 juv. 9. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



4o , ,4 juv. d, 3 juv. 9. 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 d, 1 juv. d, 2 juv. 9. 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



1 a", 19, 1 juv. 9. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 d. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 d, 



39; XII, 1908, (H.), 19, 1 juv d. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 3 d. 




1910.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



L75 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



K. & II.), 1 9. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (K. & H.), 



1 d\ 19. 

 Bainbridge, IX. 3-7, 1910, (J. C, 



Bradley), 1 <?. 

 Spring Creek, VI. VII, 1911-12, 



(.1. ('. Bradley), loM?. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 4 d\ 59. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 2 d\ 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 



Scarcely any size variation is apparent over the distribution of 

 the present species. Males in the series before us range in length 

 from 21.5 to 27 mm., females from 31.5 to 40 mm. Several specimen- 

 from southern Georgia show a considerable reduction in the pronotal 

 crest, which might, confuse them with A. granulata, were other 

 differential characters, which separate these two distinct species, not 

 carefully observed. The height of this crest, measured vertically 

 from the dorso-caudal angle of the pronotum, is variable in all of 

 the series now under consideration, extremes measuring as follows: 

 males, 2 to 2.7 mm., females, 2.3 to 3.4 mm. The great majority of 

 specimens approach more closely the maximum in this measurement . 



The specimens of palest coloration have the ventral surface of the 

 body very dark, which portion of the body is almost black in the 

 normal type of this insect; in A. granulata, this surface is normally 

 very pale, only occasionally weakly suffused with brown. 



The present species was found in dry situations, particularly in 

 more open woodlands (long-leaf and short-leaf pine, pine and oak or 

 only deciduous trees), in fields along the edge of forests and occa- 

 sionally in grassy fields; on Stone Mountain, Georgia, a single speci- 

 men was found on the bare granite rock surface at the summit. 



South of northern Florida, the species is known from but one 

 record, Orange City Junction, Florida. 



Arphia granulata Saussure. 



South Carol i na. 



Sumter, V, 30, 11)14, (W. Stone), 2 <?, 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Manning, V, 28, 1914, (\V. Stone), 1 d\ 



[A. N. S. P.]. 



Georgia. 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. <v H.), 6 cf, 5 9. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 2 cf , 



39. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 2 cT, 2 9. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 5 <?, 



39; VIII, 28, 1911, (H.), 2 9. 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.) 



1 d% 19. 

 Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 cf • 

 Billy's Island, VI, IX, 1-5, 1912-13. 



(J. C. Bradley), 7 d\ 5 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf; (T. J. Priddev), So 1 , 2 9, 



[Hebard Cln.]. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 3 9. 

 Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 1 d". 

 Indian River, (T. J. Priddev), 1 o\ 



[Hebard Cln.]. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



In the present species the height of the pronotal crest, measured 

 vertically from the dorso-caudal angle of the pronotum, is moderately 

 variable in all of the material in our collections, the extremes measur- 

 ing as follows; males 1.4-2 mm., females 1.5-2 mm. The minimum 

 of this measurement is approached by the majority of specimens. 



The present species is widely distributed through the pine woods 

 of Florida and extreme southern Georgia and is an inhabitant of low, 

 flat country. On Mixon's Hammock a specimen was taken on the 

 edge of an oak grove. The insect is known from localities extending 

 from Wilmington, North Carolina, and Waynesville, Georgia, west- 

 ward as far as Thomasville, Georgia, and south to Key West, Florida. 



Arphia sulphurea (Fabrieius). 



Maryland. Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Chesapeake Beach, 1 cf, [Davis CIn.]. -* 9 • _. ... ' _, _. 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.),ld%l 9. Lake Toxaway, V, (Mrs. A. T. blos- 



Washington, D. C, VIII, 1883, 2 tf, son )> 1 9 > t Davls Cln -1- 



[Hebard Cln.]. South Carolina. 



Virginia. Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 



Gr DavisM S 9 YI ' 26 ' 1914 ' (W ' T ' 1JUV ' 9 ' Geor ° ia - 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Clayton, 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



H.), 19,l]uv. c?. . ( J - C - Bradley), 2^; VI, VII, 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 19, 1909-10, (W. T. Davis), 3 <?, 5 9 . 



! ju V ' 9 . Pinnacle Peak, VII, 21, 1910, (W. T. 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), ^Davis), la*. . 



I o Black Rock Mountain, 3,500 feet, V, 



North Carolina 20_25 ' 1911 ' (J - C - Bradle >')> 1 <?■ 



North Carolina. Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, VII, 



Manteo, V and VI, 1903, 1 tf, 19, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 cf. 



[Davis Cln.]. Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 



Weldon, IV, 20, 1908, (B. Long), 1 tf, 1 tf. 



[A. N. S. P.]; VII, 24, 1913, (R. & Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 



H.), 19. 5, 1913 (H.), 19. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. 9. 2 d\ 



Mature individuals of the present insect appear in the early spring, 

 while the above records show that desultory adults are still present 

 as late as early August. 



The most southern definite record for the species is Leon County, 

 Florida, near the Georgia State line. 



Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer). 



Maryland. Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 1 d\ * <?» 1 J uv - £> l J uv \ 9 - rrr . 



Montgomery Count v, 4 9 , [Hebard 

 Virginia. Cln.]. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



H.), 2 d% 2 9 , 2 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9 . 2^, 19. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 &. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



North Carolina. Tuckoluge ('reck, Rabun County, VII, 



Weldon, VII, 24, 15)13, (R. & H.), T 1910 > W- T. Dayis), 3 9 . 



1 ', 19, ] juv. d". Jasper, 1,550 feet, Mil, 5, 1913, (R.), 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), „, 1 <?• , TrTTT 



19,1 juv. oV 1 juv. 9 . Toceoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 4, 1913, (H.), 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 19- 



1 j uv 9 ■ ( urranee Mountain, v III, 5, 1913, 



Fayettevffl'e, IX. 9, 1911, (R. & H.), ( H -)> 1 <f- „.„ . _ ft ,,, 



Ij 19 1 hoinpson s Mills, spring 1909, (Al- 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), lard )> I <?> * 9 - l r - S - N - M -l- 



1 - Rome, VIII, 21, 1910, 1 cf, 19, 



South Carolina. [Ga. State Cln.]. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), Bx \ ck [ 1Q % d X VK'vV 913, (R " & H ' } ' 

 j-ijo i a , - v , - juv. ci • 



Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H.), ^iS^^^)^ feet ' VU1 ' 3 ' 



r Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



, 9 : r 1913, (R. & H.), 1 cT, 1 9 . 



Clayton 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, Gainesville, IV, 12, 1911, (J. C. Brad- 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 <?; VI, 1909, j ey ) 19 



(W. T. Davis), ,5 cf, 49. Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Pinnacle Peak. VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. 3*^ 79 2 juv c?. 



Bradley), 2 d>. Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Black Rock Mountain, 3,000 and 3,500 q j eg 1 hiv Q 



feet, V, 20-25, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), ° ° - ° ¥ > J 



I oM9. 



In the series before us a perceptible increase in robustness is found 

 southward in the distribution at low elevations of the present species ; 

 this is accompanied by an appreciable reduction in the pronotal 

 crest and a moderate broadening of the vertex. Material from 

 altitudes of 3,000 feet or over in the mountains of North Carolina 

 and Georgia is quite similar to material from Massachusetts, but 

 the pair before us from elevations of 3,000 and 3,500 feet on Black 

 Rock Mountain, Georgia, are very large, more attenuate, with higher 

 crest and more compressed vertex, the dorsal surface of which is 

 excavate. 



Although material of the present species from the country adjacent 

 to that in which C. australior is found shows certain characters more 

 like those found in that species, no intergradation whatever exists, 

 and C. australior shows definitely a more recent common ancestry 

 with C. cubensis, as has already been observed. The southeastern 

 limits of the present insect's distribution define sharply the north- 

 western limits of the range of C. australior, which throughout its 

 range appears to wholly supplant C. viridifasciata. 



Male immature examples in the earliest instars have the subgenital 

 plate scoop-shaped, in the larger young this plate is much as in the 

 adult condition. In the above series there are very small young 

 from Lynchburg, Virginia; Greensboro and Charlotte, North Carolina, 

 and Augusta, Georgia, which afford decided evidence that the insect 




178 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



is particularly a spring species over the entire portion of its range 

 treated in the present paper, as adults are usually found to be scarce 

 as early as the middle of July. At about this time the young were 

 found quite numerous in Virginia and North Carolina. 



We have never seen specimens of the present insect showing any 

 indication of a reddish suffusion, which is so striking in occasional 

 specimens, particularly those in the green phase, of C. australior. 

 In the present series eighteen males and nine females are of the brown 

 phase, seven males and twenty-two females are of the green phase, 

 while one female is brown suffused with green. 



This species prefers upland surroundings where it thrives in the 

 open in areas of short grasses; it is also found along the borders of 

 woodlands (Weldon and Greensboro, North Carolina; Jasper, Georgia) 

 and was found scarce in bunch-grass growing on granite slopes (Stone 

 Mountain, Georgia). 



On the Atlantic coast the insect is known as far south as Sullivan 

 Island, South Carolina, inland the most southern records are Florence, 

 South Carolina; Augusta, Marshallville and West Point, Georgia, and 

 Flomaton, Alabama. 49 The species is found far south of this latitude 

 in Texas, and we have specimens before us from as far east on the 

 Gulf coast as Biloxi, Mississippi. 



Chortophaga australior Rehn and Hebard. 



Georgia. 

 Savannah, (A. Oemler), 1 d% [U. S. 



N. M.]. 

 Tybee Island, VII, 26, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradlev), 1 o\ 19; IX, 2, 1911, 



(H.), l"cf. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9 . 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 3 cf, 9 9, 1 juv. &. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 cf , 



19. 

 Cumberland Island, IV, 29, 19, 



[Ga. State Cm.]; VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. &H.), la 1 ,!?. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 cf . 

 Billy's Island, VI, VII, IX, 1912-13, 



(J. C. Bradley), 8^,6?. 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 tf, 



19,1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 

 Tifton, IX, 8, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 



1 <?, 19. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 3-X, 19, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradlev), 3 tf, 6 9. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-VIII, 28, 1911, 13, 

 (J. C. Bradley), 8 d\ 6 9 . 



Florida. 



Fernandina, (Fenn), 1 &, [U. S. N. M.J. 

 Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 19,1 juv. cf ; IX, 7, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 <?) XI, 5, 1911, 



(W. T. Davis), 2^,59. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 5 cf, 12 9, 1 juv. 9. 

 Pablo Beach, IX, 5, 27, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 3 cf, 4 9. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



39. 

 St. Vincent Island, XI, 1, 1910, 



(W. L. McAtee), 2 <?, 19, [U. S. 



N. M.]. 

 St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



Englehardt), 19, [B. I.]. 

 Cedar Keys, VI, 9, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Sanford, III, (A. N. Caudell), 1 9 , [U. S. 



N. M.J. 

 Indian River, 1896, (T. J. Priddey), 



1 d\ 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



49 See under C. australior, Morse's records of this insect which apply properly 

 to that species. 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Scarcely any geographic variation is found in the present species, 

 individuals from southern Florida are, however, as a rule slightly 

 more robust than those from Georgia. 



In the above series two males and eight females have a more or 

 less decided reddish suffusion on the dorsal surface of head, pronotum 

 and caudal femora. The series contains twenty-three males and 

 eleven females in the brown phase, and six males and twenty-eight 

 females in the green phase. As is true in C. viridifasciata, the 

 majority of males are of the former color phase, while the majority 

 of females are of the latter, a very much greater diversity in tone 

 and intensity of shade and marking is, however, found in the present 

 insect. 



The species is found abundant in colonies in very short grass of 

 fields, along roads and in uncultivated spots in and about towns. 

 When one specimen is flushed often a dozen or twenty will fly up, 

 then frequently others will not be seen for many yards. The flight 

 of this species is swift and is accompanied by quite a loud buzzing 

 sound. In sandy fields overgrown with short grasses on St. Simon's 

 Island, Georgia, and at Atlantic Beach, Florida., the insects were 

 present in great numbers. The species is known to be present in the 

 adult condition throughout the year over its entire range. 



The distribution of the present insect ranges from the Dry Tor- 

 tugas, Florida, northward to Savannah, Georgia, the most north- 

 western localities at which it has been found being Tifton, Albany 

 and Spring Creek, Georgia, and Ft. Barrancas, Florida. 50 



Encoptolophus sordidus (Burmeister). 



District of Columbia. Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Washington, IX, 1883, 1 <?, [Hebard 1 J uv - <?t l J uv - ? • 



Cl n -]- North Carolina. 



Virginia. Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.) r 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & colony of very small voung found. 



H.), 1 juv. 9. Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9. 



A very few immature examples are all the specimens of the present 

 species which were found by the authors in the southern Piedmont 

 region in late July; Morse secured but few examples of this insect 

 when working in this region in late August and early September. 

 Charlotte, North Carolina, is the most southern record for the present 

 insect, which is very scarce over all but the most northern portion of 



50 Morse's records of C. viridifasciata from Savannah, Tybee Island and Way-, 

 cros>. Georgia, and Carrabelle, Warrington and Fort Barrancas, Florida, are 

 properly referable to the present species. 




180 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



the territory at present under consideration. The distribution of the 

 present species is known to extend westward to the Great Plains 

 .in the latitude of Nebraska; south of this the most western records 

 are eastern Kentucky and Roan Mountain Station, Tennessee. Scud- 

 der's Florida record is based upon a misidentification of C. australior. 

 Saussure's records for Georgia and Florida likewise cannot be credited 

 to this species, while Coquillett's Californian record applies to a 

 western species. 



Pardalophora 51 phoenicoptera (Burmeister). 



1892. Hippiscus (H[ippiscus]) texanus Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp .267, 286. 

 [Dallas and San Antonio, Texas.] 



Maryland. 



Queen Anne County, VIII, 15, 1902, 

 (E. G. Vanatta), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 6^,29. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 tf 1 . 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 &. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 <?. 



Suffolk, (C. W. Johnson), 19, [A. N. 

 S. P.]. 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H)., 



3 cT, 39. 



Hertford County, VI, 9, 1895, Id" 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 <?. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 & . 



South Carolina. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 tf 1 . 



Manning, V, 30, 1914, (W. Stone), 

 6 d\ [A. N. S. P.]. 



Georgia. 

 Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



4 cf, 29. 



Black Rock Mountain, V, 20-25, 1911, 

 (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 2 cf . 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.),19. 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 



19. 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 19. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913', (R. & H.), 2 9 . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 19. 



Warm Springs, VII, 18, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 ; VIII, 9-10, 1913, 



(R.), 1 cf. 

 Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9. 

 Cumberland Island, IV, 29, 1911, 1 <?, 



[Ga. State On.]. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 3 <?, 



3 9,1 juv. 9 . 



Billy's Island, IV, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 d% 1 9 . 



Bainbridge, V, 30-VI, 1, 1911, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 . 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-VII, 29, 1911. 

 (J. C. Bradley), 5^,29. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, V, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 mead), 2 9; (T. J. Priddey), 4 <?, 



4 9, [all Hebard On.]. 

 Enterprise, IV, 24, 1903, 1 juv. 9 , 



[U. S. N. M.]. 



An examination* of the material upon which Scudder based his 

 H. texanus shows that name to be an absolute synonym of the present 

 species. In Scudder's key that portion which separates these two 



81 In the resurrection of this name we follow Kirby, Synon. Catal. Orth., Ill, 

 p. 206, (1910). This genus offers more important characters to separate it from 

 true Hippiscus than is the case with numerous other recognized (Edipodine 

 genera. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



(e 1 and e 2 ) is diagnostically worthless; such variation as is noted in 

 tegminal markings is found everywhere in the eastern series before us 

 which belong unquestionably to the same species; it is impossible to 

 separate Scudder's series of texanus from the present insect by means 

 of tegminal contour, while the "sharp" and "not very sharp" lateral 

 carinse of the pronotum are intangible. The g 2 portion of the key 

 serves fully as well to separate phoenicopterus from haldemanii. 



Scarcely any geographic variation in size is found in the present 

 species over that portion of its range here considered; however, 

 material from the low-land portions of Georgia, from Florida and 

 Texas, shows a somewhat greater robustness of the caudal femora 

 accompanied by an appreciable increase in the lamellation of the 

 ventral margins of the same. The tegminal length in the present 

 series is variable irrespective of geographic distribution, extremes 

 of the present series measure as follows; males 27.5-32 mm., females 

 33-43 mm. The specimens from Texas are as large as the largest 

 specimens here recorded and have tegmina which, in the majority 

 of such specimens before us, very slightly exceed in length the maxi- 

 mum in the present series. 



In the present series are five males and two females with head, 

 pronotum and caudal femora greenish. Specimens from the low- 

 land of Georgia and from Florida are somewhat more brilliantly 

 colored and show a greater diversity of coloration than do those 

 which compose the remainder of the series; among these are several 

 females and one male with head, pronotum and caudal femora paler 

 than usual and almost immaculate, while the tegminal markings are 

 considerably reduced in number. A female from Augusta, Georgia, 

 is nearly immaculate, but darker in coloration than these specimens. 



The present insect appears adult in the early spring, and by the 

 first of August few survivors remain. South of the northern portion 

 of Florida the species is known from but four specimens, two males 

 captured at Lakeland, a female from Cleveland and an immature 

 female from Southside, Miami. 52 



Hippiscus rugosus (Scudder) 



1892. Hippiscus [H[ippiscus]) com pact us Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp. 268, 288. 



[Carolina; south shore of north Potomac, Maryland.] 

 1892. Hippiscus (H[ippiscus]) variegatus Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp. 268, 301. 



[Pennsylvania; Maryland; Washington, D. C; Georgia; Indiana; southern 



Illinois; Topeka, Kansas.] 



52 These specimens show a maximum development of the robustness of the 

 caudal femora and the increase in the lamellation of the ventral margins of the 

 same. 



13 




182 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



1892. Hippiscus (H[ippiscus\) suturalis Scudder, Psyche, VI, pp. 268, 301. 



[Moline, Illinois.] 

 1901. Hippiscus citrinus Scudder, Can. Ent., XXXIII, p. 88. [Alabama.] 

 1906. Hippiscus immaculatus Morse, Psyche, XIII, p. 119. [Clarendon, 



Texas.] 



Maryland. Georgia. 



Marshall Hall, VIII, 9, 1883, 1 9 , Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



[Hebard Cln.]. Allard), 3 a\ 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Washington, D. C, VIII, 1883, 1 9 , Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 2 juv. 9 . 



[Hebard Cln.]. Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



tt. • ■ juv. numerous. 



TTTT yiramm - Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. & 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), 1 juv. d 1 . g > ) > i j uv ^ 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 

 H.), 12 d\ 4 juv. tf>, 3 juv. 9 . 1913, (R. & h.), 1 tf>. 



Orange, VII 21 1914 ,(R .. &H.), 1 cf. Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 19,1 juv 9 . 



1 o*, 1 juv. 9. Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d*, 19, 3 juv. tf. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), l"^"'l 9 " 



vr^' 4 , 9 ' tv a ion m 1 t^ Bainbridge,' VII, 15-27, 1909, (J. C. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. <k H.), Bradley) 4 9 



m 1 f'l 9 i tv 7 ion m i tt. Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Bradley), 5^,19,1 juv. cf . 



6 d\ 109. • ' .' 



t loriaa. 

 South Carolina. Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 8 <?, 5 9. 



6 tf. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 <?, 19. 



Three of the species described by Scudder in 1892, H. compactus, 

 variegatus b3 and suturalis, are inseparable from H. rugosus; though 

 particularly based upon color pattern, not even sufficient color 

 differences exist to enable one to choose various color forms such as 

 are to be found in numerous other species of Orthoptera, where, how- 

 ever, names for these cannot be used owing to their multiplicity, inter- 

 gradations and lack of specific importance. Other characters given 

 to separate these "species" by Scudder are without exception worth- 

 less, this is due to their variability or to the fact that they are based 

 upon differences which are so slight as to be unappreciable. 



The specimen described, in 1901, by the same author as H. citrinus, 

 is merely a very dark specimen of the present species, no other 

 characters are given nor do any exist to further distinguish the 

 specimen. 



Morse has described a single male from Clarendon, Texas, as H. 

 immaculatus. This insect is but a very pale individual of the present 

 species. The normal tegminal marking of H. rugosus is absent, the 



53 This name has already been correctly svnonymized by Blatchley, Orth. of 

 Indiana, p. 270, (1903). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



only remaining maculations suggesting those of Pardalophora apiculata 

 (H. tuberculatus of authors), but much less distinct. This specimen, 

 which shows the greatest amount of recession in color pattern of any 

 individual of the present species we have seen, has in consequence, 

 as is often true in such cases, a decidedly different facies, since the 

 normal tegminal markings are all but obliterated. 



In the present species minor differences exist in every large series 

 in robustness, rugosity of the pronotum and angulation of the caudal 

 margin of the same, length of tegmina, number and size of tegminal 

 maculations and wing length. None of these differences are, however, 

 of any geographic importance. The extremes in tegminal length 

 of the material at present under consideration are as follows : males, 

 23.2 to 28 mm., females 28.8 to 35 mm. A number of th*e specimens 

 before us of the present species from Nebraska exceed the maximum 

 of these measurements, as is also true of western specimens of Par- 

 dalophora phoeni copter a. 



The specimens before us exhibit much variation in the number and 

 situation of the tegminal maculations, varying from a type in which 

 the tegmina are covered with small and more or less disconnected 

 maculations, to one in which these markings are much fused, forming 

 five or six broad irregular transverse bands. 



All of the adult specimens from above the fall line and north of 

 Winter Park, North Carolina, have the disk of the wings primrose 

 yellow, varying much less frequently to wax yellow. Southward 

 nearly one-half the specimens from localities below the fall line have 

 this portion of the wings peach red to orange pink, 54 while the re- 

 mainder vary from light orange yellow to citron yellow. As in the 

 last species treated, the width of the wing band varies considerably. 



This species begins to appear adult about the middle of July, and 

 by late August and early September is found mature in the largest 

 numbers over that portion of its range treated in the present paper. 

 The species is widely distributed and common through upland 

 fields (Virginia localities), in fields near woods and through the under- 

 growth, particularly of pine woods (other records), while at Stone 

 Mountain, Georgia, it was found in bunch-grass growing on other- 

 wise bare granite slopes. In southern Georgia and northern Florida 

 it is usually rather uncommon, only seldom being found abundant 

 locally (Spring Creek, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida). The records 

 given above are the most southern for the species in Florida. 



M These specimens are distributed through the present series as follows: Winter 

 Park, 4 cf , 5 9; Columbia, 1 <?; Bainbridge, 2 9; Spring Creek, 2 d"; Jackson- 

 ville, 5 <?, 1 9; Live Oak, 1 cT. 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Dissosteira Carolina (Linnaeus). 



Maryland. 

 Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 1 9 . 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 2 d\ 19, 1 juv. 9. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 <?. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



I'd 1 . 

 Montgomery County, (E. A. Smyth 



Jr.), 1 d\ [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



"common as usual in dusty places." 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1^,19. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 



South Carolina. 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 <?. 



No geographic variation appears to exist in the present series of 

 this very widely distributed and ubiquitous species. Extremes in 

 tegminal length are as follows: males, 29.3 to 33 mm., females, 

 32.5 to 40 mm. The species is everywhere to be found along dusty 

 roads and on more or less bare spots in waste land. It is not nearly 

 as abundant below the fall line south of central North Carolina, 

 however, as in the Piedmont region, and has not been taken anywhere 

 south of Enterprise, Florida. Sufficient work has been done in southern 

 Florida to warrant the statement that the species is not to be found 

 in that region. 



Spharagemon crepitans (Sauasure). PL XII, figs. 9, 10. 



Georgia. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 cf, 39. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



3 d\39. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 5 d\ 3 9. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 



fairly common. 

 Magnolia, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H.), 



occasional. 



Georgia. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d 1 , 2 9. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1911, (R.), 1 <?. 

 Thompson's Mills, (H. A. Allard), 1 d\ 



ITT Q T\T TV T 1 



Silver' Lake, VIII, 10, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d*. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. &H.), 19. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Billv's Island, XI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 2 d% 5 9. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 d", 2 9. 



Florida. 

 Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 9, 



[Hebard Cln. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (H.), 



4 cf . 

 Pablo Beach, VIII, 11, 12, 1905, 



(R. &H.), 2 cf, 49. 

 Cedar Keys, VIII, 15, 1905, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 19. 



The present insect may be separated from its nearest ally, S. bolli, 

 by the following characters: form more attenuate; cephalic margin 

 of pronotum more produced mesad and with margin of crest of pro- 

 zona usually straight and horizontal throughout; tegmina with 

 proximal lobe of costal margin more pronounced; wings with disk 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



usually a more obscure shade of yellow and with distal section more 

 generally, but nowhere as strongly, suffused; caudal tibiae with proxi- 

 mal whitish portion suffused with brown, adjacent black band not 

 as sharply defined, remaining distal portion uniform, but in different 

 specimens varying from cinnamon-buff to vinaceous-ruf ous ; general 

 coloration much more uniform (figs. 9 and 10). The present series 

 shows clearly that the caudal tibiae are never as highly colored as in 

 S. bolli, and are in the majority of specimens cinnamon-buff. 



The authors unfortunately once confused the species with S. bolli, 

 the last two records given above having been referred to that species. 55 



This beautiful insect was found abundant at Cumberland Island, 

 Georgia, on the sandy soil of a live oak "hammock" near the shore, 

 but a .thunder storm and limited time preventing the capture of a 

 large series; it was found very scarce in a similar environment at St. 

 Simon's Island and occasional at Brunswick, Georgia, and Atlantic 

 Beach, Florida. The specimens taken at Pablo Beach and Cedar 

 Keys, Florida, were found in open palmetto scrub and in palmetto 

 scrub in pine woods, respectively. 



The species has never been found far inland from the ocean (Davis 

 has recorded a specimen from Gainesville, Florida, in the Agricultural 

 Experiment Station Collection; in this case we feel sure that an 

 error has been made in labelling) ; it was described originally from 

 Georgia, and the only definite locality other than those given above at 

 which the species has been taken is Key West, Florida, though ex- 

 amination of the specimen, recorded as S. bolli from Carrabelle, 

 Florida, by Morse, shows it to be this species. 



Spharagemon bolli (Scudder). 

 Virginia. 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 3cf,59. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



5 tf, 2 9. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



one colony. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 cf, 19. 



North Carolina. 

 Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 d\ 59. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 c?,29. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 39. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 <?. 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 <?, 29. 

 Black Mountain, VII and VIII. 1912. 



(\Y. Beutenrnuller), 3 d", 6 9 , [Davis 



Cln.]. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 d 1 . 

 Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 



7 d\ 1 9, 1 juv. 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 a*. 

 Manning, V, 28, 1914, (W. Stone), 



3 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), occasional. 



55 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phtla., 1907, p. 290, (1907). 




186 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 2 d", 2 9. Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 



1 oV2 9. Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H., 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. Bradley), 8 cf, 5 9 . 



Davis), 2 cf, 2 9. Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, 



Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 2 cf. (R.), 4 tf, 7 9. 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, Maeon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



(H.), ld>, 19. 3 9. 

 Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Allard), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



No geographic variation is shown in the present material, but 

 individuals of many series vary greatly in size, tegminal length, 

 general coloration and intensity and recession of color pattern. The 

 extremes of tegminal length are as follows: males 22.6 to 28 mm., 

 females, 27.8 to 33 mm. 



The majority of specimens are of different shades of brown, mod- 

 erately maculate and with caudal femora weakly thrice banded with 

 a darker shade. A very few females are considerably paler, nearly 

 immaculate, with the bands on the caudal femora greatly obscured, 

 while a number of the males and two females are nearly black in 

 general dark coloration, but have the color pattern nearly always 

 decidedly intensified. None of these variations indicate any geo- 

 graphic significance, as all of the larger series include specimens of 

 the palest as well as darkest coloration. 



The present insect is widely distributed and abundant in upland 

 situations, particularly in and about oak or mixed oak and pine 

 woods of the Piedmont region. In the lower country it is found 

 common in pine and oak woods as far south as Weldon, North 

 Carolina; south of this in the lower country it is rarely met with 

 and always in very few numbers (Golclsboro and Fayetteville, N. C, 

 Florence, S. C, Thomasville, Ga.). The species has not been found 

 southeast of Florence and Denmark, South Carolina; Macon and 

 Thomasville, Georgia, and Tallahassee, Florida. 



Spharagemon collare wyomingianum (Thomas). 



Virginia. Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), Bradley), 19. 



1 <? 1 9 Spring Creek, VI-VII, 1911-12, (J. C. 



Georgia. Bradley), 1 cf, 1 9 . 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. Florida. 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (H.), 1 <?, 

 ley), '3 tf 1 . 19. 



Previously recorded specimens from Thomasville, Georgia, and Fer- 

 nandina and Gainesville, Florida, are inseparable from the present 

 series; this is also true of one male recorded by the authors as S. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



187 



cristatum 56 from Albany, Georgia. The latter specimen is, however, 

 somewhat larger, with longer tegmina and greater pronotal dimen- 

 sions than any other specimen in the present series. 



All of the material here studied belongs to one and the same 

 geographic race of S. collare, but agrees perfectly with none of the 

 known races as Morse has defined them. Taking Morse's differential 

 characters 57 the series falls under S. c. wyomingianum in having a 

 head which in facial aspect is nearly subequal in width, with more 

 prominent eyes and in the proximal fuscous bands on the inside of the 

 caudal femora being but faintly or not at all connected; in respect to 

 size, however, the series agrees with the larger S. c. scudderi; the pro- 

 notal crest is very high, suggesting a very strong tendency toward S. 

 crista turn. The increase in size of this series over New England 

 individuals of *S. c. wyomingianum, with accentuation of pronotal 

 cristation, may be due to geographic variation, but the specimens 

 before us from Virginia show no such variation, agreeing with 

 material from Florida. Study of the genus, with large series from 

 all portions of its distribution, can alone determine the validity and 

 distributional extent of the races of the present species. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Height Length 



Length Length of Length of 



c* of of pronotal of caudal 



body. pronotum. crest. tegmen. femur. 



Petersburg, Va 23.3* 6.9 2.4 26. 14.7 



Augusta, Ga 23.9 6.2 2.2 25.1 14.4 



Billy's Island, Ga 22.5-23.9 6.-6.2 2.1-2.3 24.-25.3 13.4-14. 



Albany, Ga 26.2 7.1 2.5 28. 14.7 



Thomasville, Ga 21.-23. 6.1-6.5 2.-2.2 21.2-25.4 11.6-14. 



Live Oak, Fla 23.2 6.6 2.1 24.7 14. 



9 



Petersburg, Va 30.5 7.3 2.5 28.8 16.3 



Thomasville, Ga 24.8-28.3 6.9-7.9 2.2-2.4 25.5-27. 15.-15.7 



Bainbridge, Ga. 58 28.2-29.9 7.4-8.3 2.5-2.9 27.8-29.3 15.3-16. 



Gainesville, Fla 26. 7.1 2.4 25.4 15.8 



The present ammophilous species was found very scarce in a sandy 

 field overgrown with scattered low weeds (Petersburg), only one 

 specimen was found in a sandy scrub oak area (Augusta), while a 

 pair were discovered in a sandy cotton field (Live Oak). 



56 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 593, (1911). 

 67 Psyche, VII, p. 295, (1895). 



58 As Spring Creek is but a few miles from Bainbridge, we have here included 

 the measurements of the female from that locality. 




188 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Seirtetica marmorata picta (Scudder). 

 North Carolina. 



Southern Pines, 1906, 19, [U. S. 



N. M.]. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 J. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



5 <?, 19. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



Georgia. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 <?, 2 juv. cf. 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 <?, 19. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 <?, 



19. 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 2 cf, 69. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 6 <?. 

 Cumberland Island, IV, 29, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 <?; VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 19. 

 Spring Creek, VI-VIII, 1911-13, (J. C. 



Bradley), 6 <?, 19. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, V, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 mead), 1 <?, [Hebard Cln.]; VIII, 

 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 d% 39; 

 IX, 5, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 2 cf. 



Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 19. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



5 a* 2 9. 

 Enterprise, V, 11, 1 d\ [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Gotha, 1 &, [U. S. N. M.]. 



The intergradation between this geographic race and S. m. marmorata, 

 shown by the material recorded above from southern North Carolina, 

 has recently been fully treated by the present authors. 59 



The general coloration in the present series ranges from clove 

 brown to ferruginous, often more or less strongly washed with gray. 



The present insect is also ammophilous and is found usually in 

 small colonies scattered through the woods in the more sandy situa- 

 tions. It was found above the fall line, but near its very edge at 

 Columbia, "on sand among black jack oaks," and at Augusta, 

 "in sandy tract covered with scrub oaks," at which localities long 

 search revealed but five specimens, of which four were immature. 

 These localities indicate the extreme northwestern distribution of the 

 insect, which is found in the largest numbers in the low country 

 through the more sandy portions of the pine forests, in which situa- 

 tions frequent scrub oaks are usually to be found as well. On the 

 Gulf of Mexico the insect has been taken as far west as Gulfport, 

 Mississippi. 



Psinidia fenestralis (Serville). 



Virginia. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 2 d\ 19, 1 juv. 9. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 

 Beaufort, end of VII, 1909, (F. Sher- 

 man Jr.), 1 c? , [N. C. Dept. Agr.]. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 3 9. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 cf, 39. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



H.),l cf, 19. 



69 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 254, (1912). See also Morse, Car- 

 negie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 37, (1904). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



South Carolina. St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 5 *, Cumberland Island! V, ->. 1911, 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), g^Sf^gf 2 4 ^ ;Vm ' 81 ' 19U ' 



Su^, V%0 1914, (W. Stone), 1 tf, ^ J^ ^ 1912 ' < J " C " Br; "'- 



IsleV Palms,' VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), °e le | h W,'viI, 1, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 



< m ' T~\ i t^~ - iftii /T> i -a \ I'nadilla, I \ |( la. State Cln. ]. 



Sulhvan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & H.), A]1)am . vm ^ 1913> (R & ^ j 9 

 \~hley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Bs f^ Ti f*> IX ' 1910 ' (J " Q Bradle y)> 



YemasIee'lX 4 1911 (R &H) Spring Creek, VI-VIII, 1911-13, (J. C. 

 lemassee^ 1A, 4, 1JII, (K. & a..), Bradley), 28 o", 31 9, 1 juv. 9. 



. . Florida. 



'" " rgia - Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.)„ 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 c?, 69; XI, 5, 1911, (W. T. 



1 <?, 19. Davis), 2 c?, 1 9 . 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



1 d\ 2 9. 2 cT, 19. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911. (R. & H.), 19; Pablo Beach, VI, 25, 1912, (J. C. 



XII, 1908, (H.), 1 d*. Bradley), 1 d\ 1 9 ; IX, 5, 1911, 



Offerman, IV, 22, 1911, 19, [Ga. XI, 4, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 1 cf , 



State Cln.]. 2 9 . 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 a*, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



19. H.), 10 d% 7 9. 



Much variability in size and wing length is shown by the above 

 material, but this has apparently no geographic significance. The 

 specimens from the Isle of Palms are as a whole large and show the 

 greatest variation of any series in tegminal length, the extremes in 

 that dimension measuring as follows: males, 19.5 to 23.6 mm.; 

 females, 22.4 to 26.8 mm. 



The species shows three pronounced types of alar disk coloration; 

 yellow, orange and pink. In the series of specimens from localities 

 south to New Jersey such coloration is found to be baryta yellow 

 (yellow value), light jasper red (pink value) and occasionally bitter- 

 sweet pink or pale yellow orange, showing that in this region the 

 yellow and pink color forms exist, while occasional specimens of 

 the two types are found with an orange tinge. The more southern 

 series above listed shows no specimens in which this coloration is 

 yellow, as in this series it is found to be light jasper red (pink value), 

 flame scarlet (orange value) and frequently bittersweet pink or 

 bittersweet orange, showing that in the southeastern United States 

 the pink and orange color forms with intergradients exist. We 

 have the pink type from as far south as the Isle of Palms, South 

 Carolina; all of the Georgia and Florida material belongs either to the 

 orange type or to that type with a slight pinkish suffusion. 



In the present series a great number of specimens have the distal 




190 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



portion of the wing beyond the wing-band heavily suffused, leaving 

 only a nearly circular hyaline spot; this varies to individuals which 

 have this portion of the wing wholly hyaline. In the paler series 

 the majority of specimens show this latter condition, but great 

 variation everywhere exists. 



In coloration the present material shows all phases of intensifica- 

 tion and recession of color pattern, tegmina ranging from those which 

 are nearly immaculate to a much mottled and speckled type, and 

 individuals which are in general coloration very pale to others which 

 are very dark. In the present species the color pattern is most 

 pronounced in dark individuals and is often almost obsolete in very 

 pale specimens. 



This ammophilous species is found everywhere in sandy situations 

 over the coastal plain of the southeastern United States ; it was taken 

 at the fall line (Petersburg, Weldon, Columbia, Augusta), but has not 

 been definitely recorded from the Piedmont plateau. The range 

 of the species extends far northward, and, south of the fall line, far 

 westward of the region treated in the present paper. 



Trimerotropis maritima (Harris). 



Plumpoint, Maryland, VIII, 10, 1913, 



(W. T. McAfee), 2 c?, 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 ; 



VII, 7, 1912, X, 18, 1912, 1 c?, 69, 

 [all U. S. N. M.]. 



Piney Point, Md., VII, 4, 1879, 1 9 ; 



VIII, 12, 1878, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Cedar Island, Virginia, VII, 13, 1914, 



(H. G. Dyar), 2 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 Fortress Monroe, Va., VI, 8, 1884, 



1 c?, [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Oceanview, Va., VIII, 9 and 10, 1904, 



(A. N. Caudell), 6 c?, 19, [U. S. 



N. M.l. 



Beaufort, North Carolina, end of VII, 

 1909, (F. Sherman Jr.), 2 c?, 19, 

 [N. C. Dept, Agr.j. 



Wilmington, N. C, VII, 1906, (R. S. 

 Wolgum), 4 c?, 19, [N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.]. 



Smith Island, N. C, X, 1906, (F. Sher- 

 man Jr.), 5 c?, 19, [N. C. Dept. 

 Agr.]. 



Atlantic Beach, Florida, VIII, 25, 1911, 

 (R. & H.; on strand), 1 c?, 1 9. 



As previously stated by the authors, two of the six females recorded 

 from Cape Henry, Virginia, have the caudal tibiae showing a pinkish 

 suffusion. No intergradation whatever with T. citrina is to be found, 

 the hypothesis that hybridization with that species occurred, 60 being 

 due to the fact that it was not recognized that both red and yellow 

 tibiae are found in maritima. It is true that over the greater portion 

 of the range of the present insect, individuals of the species have yel- 

 low tibiae, but from Cape May, New Jersey, southward, specimens are 

 sometimes met with having reddish tibiae. Of the series here recorded 

 one male (Oceanview) and one female (Plumpoint) have the caudal 



60 Morse, Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 38, (1904). See also Rehn 

 and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 631, (1911). 




nut.. I 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



P.) I 



tibiae suffused with reddish. Numerous specimens from south of 

 Virginia have the wing-hand unusually broad and solid for the 

 speeies. reaching a maximum width on the radiate field of G mm. in 

 some males and 7 mm. in some females. 



This speeies is a native of the sand dunes and sandy strand of the 

 Atlantic coast ; it has, however, been found some distance inland in 

 areas of loose sand. It has been previously correctly recorded from 

 as far south as the coast of North Carolina. 



Trimerotropis citrina Seudder. 



Pennsylvania. 



Philadelphia Neck, VII, 29, (H. \Y. 



Wenzel), 1 9, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Maryland. 



Chesapeake Beach, IX, 17, 1914, 

 A. X. Caudell), 2 cf, 19, [U. S. 



\ M.|. 



Virginia. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 5 cf, 39. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24. 1913, (R. & H.), 19. 

 Favetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 4 cf, 2 9. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 29. 

 Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 1 cf, 19. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 cf, 19. 



Georgia . 



Clayton, 2,000 feet, VI, 1909, (W. T. 

 Davis), 1 9. 



Tallulah Falls, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 Davis), 1 cT. 



Thompson's Mills, (H. A. Allard), 2 9 , 

 [U. S. X. M.]. 



Atlanta. VIII, 30, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley). 19. 



Silver Lake. VIII, 10, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 cf • 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



l.cf. 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (J. C. Bradlev, R. & H.), 



3 cf, 19. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 29. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 1 cf . 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf . 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 

 (R. &H.), l(f,29. 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 3 9 . 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 

 (R. &H.), 4 cf, 119- 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



Billv's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 19. 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 c? . 



Thomasville, XII, 1908, (H.), 1 J*. 



Unadilla, VI, 25, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 

 2 cf, 29. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 

 19,1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9; IX, 1, 1910, 

 (J. C. Bradley), 19. 



Bainbridge, IX-X, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 4 cf , 5 9 . 



Spring Creek, VIII, 26-28, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 cf . 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 19; XI, 5, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 cf. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 4 cf, 19. 

 Pablo Beach, IX, 27, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 cf. 

 Davtona, XI, 11, 1911, (G. P. Engle- 



hardt), 1 cf , [B. I.]. 

 St. Vincent Island, XI, 1, 1910, (W. L. 



McAtee), 2 9, [U. S. X. M.J. 



Little variation of any kind is shown by the great majority 

 of specimens in the present series. Morse's supposition that 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



this insect hybridizes with T. maritima is explained under that 

 species. 61 



Although the present species is essentially a midsummer insect, 

 material from southern Georgia shows that adults are not scarce 

 in that region as late as October, and that battered individuals are 

 found there, though rarely, as late as December. This ammophilous 

 insect is found in sandy situations over its range, from the ocean 

 beaches (where, however, it is rarely found and in few numbers) to 

 the waste land and river borders of the southern mountain valleys 

 and Piedmont region and far west of the area treated in the present 

 paper. It is most abundant, however, in the low country south of 

 North Carolina, and is everywhere to be found in the sandy regions 

 of southern Georgia and northern Florida. In extreme southern 

 Florida the species is decidedly scarce, a few specimens having been 

 recorded only from Key West. The most northeastern localities 

 at which the species has been found are Philadelphia Neck, Penn- 

 sylvania, and Maryland, though the occurrence of the species north 

 of southern Virginia is very exceptional. 62 



Trimerotropis saxatilis McNeill. 



Highlands, North Carolina, IX, 1906, 1 a", 1 9 . 



2 d\ 2 9, [U. S. N. M.]. Stone Mountain, Georgia, 1,000-1,686 



Rabun Bald, Georgia, 4,000-4,800 feet, feet, VIII, 3, 1913, (Bradlev, R. & H.), 



VIII, 21, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 83 cf, 70 9 . 



The following notes were taken from observations made on Stone 

 Mountain, Georgia, a granitic knob rising abruptly 686 feet above the 

 surrounding Piedmont peneplain, which in this vicinity has a mean 

 elevation of 1,000 feet. U T. saxatilis found on bare granite slopes 

 where areas of lichens were the only vegetation to be found. The 

 northern face of the mountain is precipitous. The species was 

 plentiful about the gently rising slopes at the south base of the moun- 

 tain where the bare rock surfaces were first encountered, particularly 

 so in areas of rock fragments near the adjacent bunch grass vegeta- 

 tion. On ascending further the species was found less numerous, 

 becoming quite infrequent upon the bare rock areas on the slopes 

 clothed with open pine woods, but at the summit, where large bare rock 

 areas occupy the greater portion of the surface, the insect was again 



61 See Hebard, Ent. News, XXVI, p. 403, (1915). The south Florida species, 

 Trimerotropis acta, is there described and compared with maritima and citrina. 

 The misidentifications of that species, as maritima by Caudell, from Palm Beach, 

 and as citrina by Davis, in part, from Ocean Beach near Miami, are there cor- 

 rected. 



62 The record of this species from Lehigh Gap, Pennsylvania, applies to Sphar- 

 agemon saxatile planum Morse. See Rehn, Ent. News, XIII, p. 311, (1902). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



found in considerable numbers. The flight of the specie- is dis- 

 tinctive; taking wing with great rapidity, individuals Hy very low 

 for a short distance, but evince great wariness and often have to be 

 approached a number of times before it is possible to come within 

 striking distance. Only infrequently was the flight accompanied 

 by a sound, this being a faint clicking whirr like that occa- 

 sionally produced by individuals of the western T. cya7ieipennis. 

 The granite surfaces were for the greater part stained to a blackish 

 hue and the majority of specimens were exactly of this coloration, 

 a few were paler, matching similar areas of rock surface, while occa- 

 sional specimens were mottled with greenish and these exactly 

 blended with the lichenose areas of rock." 



The disk of the wings varies in the present species from light dull 

 green-yellow to the palest green-yellow. 



Except for the color variation mentioned above, little variation is 

 to be found in the present series. Extremes of tegminal length 

 measure as follows: males 18.6 to 21.4 mm., females 22.8 to 27.2 mm. 



In Georgia the species is known only from White Oak Gap and 

 Flat Rock on Sand Mountain, outside of the localities given above. 

 The distribution of this species is highly discontinuous, as it is con- 

 fined to bare rock surfaces; it has not been taken in the Appalachians 

 north of Highlands, North Carolina. 



Romalea microptera (Beauvoia). 



1S39. Romalea marci Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 623. [Near South 

 Carolina.] 



South Carolina. Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <? . IV. 



South Jacksonville, IX, 28, 1913, 

 Georgia. (W< T Davis); 1 ^_ 



Social Circle, X, 18, 1907, (J. F. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



Lewis), 1 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. H .), 2 <? . ■ 



Bainbndge, VI, 2, 1911, (J. C. Brad- St. Petersburg, IV, 10, 1908, 1 juv. <?, 



ley), ljuv. 9. [A. N. S. P.]. 



Waycross, V, 8, 1911, 1 juv. cf, 1 Rockledge, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



juv. 9, [Ga. State Chi.]. Melbourne, (A. C. Sirdefield), 19, 



Hebardville, late V, 1915, (Wm, [tj. g. n. M.j. 



Walker), 1 juv. cT, 2 juv. 9 , [Hebard Capron, 63 1 juv. 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



CSIn.]. Cocoanut Grove, VIII, 19, 1911, 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), (j. w. Harshberger), 19, [A. X. 



2 c?, 29. S.P.j. 



Florida. Turners, (G. W. Morrill), 1 <?, [U. S. 



Warrington, (A. H. Gale), 3 juv. 9 , N. M.]. 



[Hebard Cln.]. 



There can be no question but that Romalea marci of Serville is 



"This locality is the abandoned Fort Capron, situated near the present town 

 of Viking. 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



based on the melanistic color phase of this species. The name 

 should be synonymized, once and for all, under microptera. 



These specimens exhibit the usual amount of individual variation 

 in size. The Columbia and Social Circle males are typical of the 

 melanistic phase, while all of the Isle of Hope specimens and that 

 from South Jacksonville have decided tendencies in the same direc- 

 tion, the dorsum of the head, pronotum and abdomen, as well as the 

 tegmina and limbs, showing much more blackish than usual in the 

 yellow phase. 



The range of this species is now known to extend north in the 

 South Atlantic States as far as Cabarrus County, North Carolina 

 (Sherman and Brimley). 



The species was taken in pine woods undergrowth (Jacksonville 

 and Isle of Hope), in palmetto "hammock" (Atlantic Beach) and 

 in grass in waste field (Columbia). 



Having personally quite carefully examined the more austral 

 portions of both Carolinas, as well as the greater portion of the State 

 of Georgia, it seems very certain to us that the locality given by 

 Serville in his original description of Acridium coloratum 6i (Chrom- 

 acris colorata of present-day nomenclature) is erroneous. His remarks 

 are "Donne par M. Marc du Havre, qui l'a regu d'une partie de 

 l'Amerique, voisine de la Caroline du Sud." We are convinced 

 that the specimen he had did not come from the eastern United 

 States, but probably was of Mexican origin, as the species is so 

 striking, and so universally secured by collectors who encounter it, 

 that it must make itself quite in evidence in its native habitat. 



Stenacris vitreipennis (Marschall). 



North Carolina. Billy's Island, VII, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 Lake Ellis, V, 14, 1906, ltf, 19, r,^'], 9 :. TY , , 1K 1Q1Q 

 [U. S. N. M.]. Chase Prairie, IX, o and 15, 191.3. 

 Wilmington, VIII, 1, 1909, 2 <?, 2 9 , ( J - C - Bradley), 3 d\ 5 9 , 1 juv. tf 1 . 

 [R T 1 



Georgia. . Florida. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 <?.' Jacksonville, V and VIII, 1S85, (W. H. 



Blackshear, V, 10, 1911, 19, [Ga. Ashmead), 1 d\ 1 juv. d"; (T. J. 



State Cln.]. Priddey), 1 d\ [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Thalman, IV, 28, 1911, 19, [Ga. South Jacksonville, IX, 3, 1913, 



State Cln.]. (W. T. Davis), 1 d>. 



Mixon's Hammock, V, 16, 1915, (H.), Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



1 cf. H.), ld , ,19,l juv. 9. 



64 Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 675, (1839). 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



195 



Daytona, XI. 11, 1911, 1 o 1 , 19, 



[U. S. X. M.]. 

 Silver Spring, XI. 25, 1911, 1 <?, 



[V. 8. X. M.]. 



Enterprise, V, 13 and 15, 1 d\ 19, 



[U.S. X. M.]. 

 Kockledge, II, 5, 1880, 1 d% [U. S. 



X. M.j. 

 Melbourne, III, 1 d\ [A. X. S. P.]. 



Six specimens, the Jesup male, two males from Chase Prairie, a 

 Jacksonville male and the Atlantic Beach pair, have the pale lateral 

 line on the head, ventral margin of the lateral lobes and pleura 

 distinctly indicated, faint and incomplete traces of it existing in 

 several other specimens. The Jesup male is the only one having the 

 dorsal surface of the head, proriotum and tegmina faintly brownish, 

 the others, unless by evident discoloration, having this area at least 

 in part green. The three young all show a narrow dark medio- 

 longitudinal line on the head, pronotum and attingent edges of the 

 undeveloped tegmina and wings. The antennae in these are similar 

 in form to those of the adults. 



The range of this species is much more restricted than is the case 

 with the frequently associated Leptysma marginicollis. The most 

 northern record known is from Lake Ellis, North Carolina (Sherman 

 and Brimley), while southward it is unknown from any localities 

 more elevated than Waycross and Thomasville, Georgia. The species 

 is thus seen to extend over but a portion of the coastal plain and 

 southward it has been taken as far as Miami, Florida, the most 

 western known point of its occurrence being Appalachicola. 



All of the material taken by us was secured in high grasses or 

 rushes in or around swamp or marsh land, except in the Okeefenokee 

 Swamp where the species was everywhere to be found in the dense 

 green undergrowth of small saplings growing out of water in the 

 almost impenetrable swamp forest. 



Leptysma marginicollis (Serville). 



Maryland. 



Pinev Point, VIII, 9, 1913, (W. L. 



McAtee), 1 juv. d\ [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Washington, D. C, 1 juv. 9 , Hebard 



Cln.]. 



Virginia. 



Alexandria, V, 27, (G. S. Miller), 1 o", 



2 9, [U. 8. X. M.]. 

 Dismal Swamp, VII, 22, (G. P. Engle- 



hardt), 1 a\ [B. I.]. 



Xort/i Carolina. 



Roanoke Island, VII, 25, (G. P. 



Englehardt), 19, [B. I.]. 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. d\ 7 juv. 9 . 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 cf . 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 

 Lake Ellis, V, 16, 1906, 19, [U. S. 

 X. MJ. 



South Carolina. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



6 juv. d 71 , 7 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9 . 



Georgia. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 



19,1 juv. d\ 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Billy's Island, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 9 ; South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 



VI-VII, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d\ Davis), 1 9 . 



1 9 . Ortega, Duval County, IX, 6, 1913. 



Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. (W. T. Davis), 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Bradley), 1 9. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



Chase Prairie, IX, 5, 1913, (J. C. H.), 6 <?, 3 9, 1 juv. d\ 4 juv. 9 . 



Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . Pablo Beach, IX, 5, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 tf. 



Florida. Baldwin, III, 7, 1879, (E. A. Schwarz), 



Jacksonville, VIII, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 1 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. 



mead), 1 d\ (T. J. Priddey), 1 9, Enterprise, V, 24 and 25, 2 <?, [U. S. 



[all Hebard Cln.]. N. M.j. 



The usual increase in size southward is less marked in this species 

 than is generally the case, and then only in the female sex. In both 

 sexes any geographic size tendencies are discounted by the very 

 great individual size variation, the extreme males of the Atlantic 

 Beach series, for instance, measuring as follows: 



The angle of the fastigium, while individually variable, is as a 

 rule more acute in the more southern specimens than in the others, 

 say from Raleigh, North Carolina. The young from Ashley Junction 

 represent the four instars preceding maturity, while those from 

 Greensboro lack the last two stages. From the evidence in hand it 

 seems that, over at least a considerable portion of its range, this 

 species occurs in an adult condition throughout the year. 



The greenish color phase is more in evidence in the young than in 

 adults, but the Honey Island females are quite greenish, the Billy's 

 Island females similar, but to lesser degree. A medio-longitudinal 

 line of purplish or pinkish is indicated more or less distinctly in the 

 greater portion of the young. 



This marsh and swamp-loving species generally frequents tall 

 grasses and reeds in the situations preferred by it, but occasionally 

 has been taken (Wilmington) in high bushes on the edge of a gum 

 swamp.* The wet spots in pine woods are much frequented by it. 



Individual Variability and Dimorphism in Schistocerca alutacea and 



obscura. 



The authors have in their hands a series of over five hundred 

 specimens belonging to these two species as understood by them. 

 The form for which Scudder used the name obscura 65 is well separated 



65 Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., XXXV, p. 465, (1899). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



from alutacea, except in the case of brown-phase females, regarding 

 which see below under obsciwa. The other species has been the 

 cause of considerable difference of opinion, two names, alutacea 

 Harris and rubiginosa Scudder, the first based on striped individuals, 

 the other one on brown or reddish brown unstriped specimens, being 

 involved. The present authors have individually and collectively 

 expressed their opinions regarding the specific identity of these 

 forms, 66 and in the light of the present material we see no necessity 

 for changing, or in any way modifying, our former conclusions. 



In both species we find developed two color phases : one olivaceous 

 or deep wine color, having a medio-longitudinal yellow stripe on the 

 head, pronotum and anal area of the tegmina, the other being of a 

 more or less uniform brown or red brown color without any distinct 

 medio-longitudinal line. Correlated with these color differences 

 we usually find readily perceived structural differences in both 

 obscura and alutacea, the striped phase typically having the pronotum 

 more tectate, more compressed and appreciably narrowing cephalad, 

 and the head narrower with the fastigium more produced. The 

 brownish phase typically has the pronotum less tectate, more robust 

 and less narrowing cephalad, while the head is broader with the 

 fastigium blunted, broader and more declivent. The first of these 

 forms in alutacea is alutacea s.s., the second is rubiginosa, regarding 

 the distinctness of which Morse says, 67 "typically these two species 

 differ in color, structure and haunts." Later the same author 

 modifies his first statement, restricting it to New England material 68 

 as follows: "It is very probable that some so-called species are but 

 forms of one which varies greatly in color and structure. In New 

 England the two forms known as alutacea and rubiginosa seem to 

 be constantly different structurally, though rubiginosa has a color- 

 variety resembling alutacea. Southward and westward the structural 

 gap between the two seems to be bridged, and both vary much in 

 size, color, form, and proportions of parts." If we were called upon 

 to deal only with typical material, it would be an extremely simple 

 matter to consider the two phases as species, but unfortunately a 

 very considerable portion of our series is not typical, but apparently, 

 and when carefully studied actually, intermediate not only in color 

 but so, more rarely, however, in structure and proportions. The 



66 Ent. News, XIII, p. 89, (1902); Ibid., p. 312, (1902); Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1907, pp. 292, 293, (1907). 



"Carnegie Inst, Wash., Publ. 18, p. 39, (1904). 



68 Carnegie Inst, Wash., Publ. 68, pp. 43-44, (1907). 



14 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



yellow line narrows and finally dies out, the fastigium broadens out 

 and the pronotum and head become more robust toward the "rubi- 

 ginosa" type in the intermediates in certain extensive series. We 

 have such series of alutacea from a number of localities in New 

 Jersey, South Carolina and Georgia. The proportionate depth of 

 the caudal femora in general is greater in the rubiginosa type, but 

 this is by no means an absolute rule, as some series of that phase 

 show all sorts of variation in this respect. The "alutacea" phase, 

 however, is more uniform in having the femora more slender. The 

 number of scutes in the paginal pattern on the caudal femora also 

 varies greatly and without phase correlation. 



We have examined a number of New England specimens of 

 "alutacea" and " rubiginosa " determined by Morse, and the remarks 

 he has made about their differences hold true, but when material 

 from New Jersey southward is considered the inter-relation of the 

 two forms becomes so complicated that they cannot be separated 

 when large series are considered. 



Taking up the question from the standpoint of habitat, it is true 

 that as a rule the striped types prefer moist areas with bracken, etc., 

 while the brown forms are more at home in dry woods and brush, 

 old fields and among dune thickets, although numerous specimens 

 of each phase have been taken in the habitat preferred by the other. 

 It is highly probable that the near future will show similar environ- 

 mental preferences by other forms of this genus now considered of 

 specific rank, but doubtless of no more standing relatively than the 

 phases of obscura and alutacea. Sufficient field observations have 

 been made, outside of those in the eastern United States, to convince 

 us that in the genus Schistocerca color per se is, as a rule, a poor 

 specific criterion, while sufficient laboratory experience has been 

 had to convince us equally well that, in this genus, certain structural 

 features are quite plastic, and in consequence to be used with caution 

 and discrimination in diagnostic work. 



The principle of dimorphism, which plays such an important part 

 in the Orthoptera, satisfactorily explains to us the problem here 

 considered. In the present cases the color differences are quite 

 decided, with a fair number of non-typical specimens nearer one 

 type than the other and a relatively smaller number really interme- 

 diate. The structural differences, generally correlated with the 

 color differences, are typically quite appreciable, but their constancy 

 fluctuates in different localities. Color dimorphism is known to 

 exist in certain genera not distantly related to Schistocerca and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



structural dimorphism, aside from the subject of macropterism and 

 brachypterism, is found in certain Dermaptera and in the Orthoptera 

 in certain groups of Phasmidse, very frequently in the Acrydiinae, 



in certain Truxalina 1 (Eritettix, Macncillia, etc.) and in species of 

 Gryllus. 



The final word on this very perplexing question can be said only 

 alter careful breeding experiments have been made. As far as 

 examination of dry material and field observations are concerned, 

 we feel that little additional information, except purely statistical 

 data, can be secured. We have had this problem in mind for over 

 ten years and have utilized every opportunity to secure data bearing 

 upon it, with the results here summarized. 



Schistocerca obscura (Fabricius). 



Delaware. Ortega, Duval County, IX, 6, 1913, 



Dover, (Macomber), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. ( w - T - Davis), 19/ 



North Carolina. Georgia. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



5c^,59. Allard), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



8»dh Carolina. JSt^l} f NS^/t^V^ 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 *, **%$?' ^ *' 1913 ' ^ & H °' * *' 



v I, 9- t *■ vttt is ioiq ,T ^ ^ Savannah, VIII, 7, 1878, (Grote), 1 9 ; 

 Ashley Junction, Mil, 15, 1913, (R.), yni | 2 2, 1881, (Howard), 19, 



1 cf. [bothU. S. N. M.]. 



Florida. Tybee island, IX, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Atlantic Beach, Mil, 24, 1911, (R. & 2 d\ 4 9. 



H.), 1 9 . Sandfly; IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



South Jacksonville, IX, 7 and 28, 1913, Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 tf, 19. (R. & H.), 5 <?, 119. 



The different form of the subgenital plate of the male is a constant 

 and readily perceived diagnostic character for this species when 

 compared with alutacea, to which it is closely related. The presence 

 of dark bars on the dorsal surface of the caudal femora, and the 

 general dark purplish or blackish color of the caudal tibiae, we find 

 to be variable, the former, however, being generally distinctly 

 indicated in striped specimens of both sexes of this species and 

 frequently absent or very faint in brownish individuals. In conse- 

 quence brown females, having the femora without dark bars on the 

 dorsal surface, are with difficulty separated from similarly colored 

 females of alutacea, the greater size of obscura being the best means 

 of discrimination in such cases, as no constant differential structural 

 features exist, as far as we can determine. We have before us one 

 striped male from Wrightsville, North Carolina, which has the usual 

 femoral bars practically absent, while of the "rubiginosa" type we have 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



four females of which but two have distinct indications of these bars, 



which are entirely absent in one (Tybee Island). The color of the 



caudal tibiae varies in the extent to which olivaceous green replaces 



part of the blackish purple, in the "rubiginosa" specimens warm 



browns replacing the olivaceous green. All of the Wrightsville 



series is striped, as is the case with the material from Florence, 



Ashley Junction, Augusta, Albany, Sandfly, Atlantic Beach, South 



Jacksonville and Ortega; the series from Tybee Island includes one 



brownish female and that from Cumberland three brown females. 



The latter all have the tegmina more or less distinctly multi-maculate 



with fuscous, while the similar phase female from Tybee Island is 



almost entirely plain. 



The structural differences between the color phases follow the 



lines discussed in the preceding summary, while the extremes in 



size in the two sexes measure as follows: 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



cf Detroit, Fla 33.4 mm. 7.5 mm. 30.5 mm. 20.4 mm. 



c? Key Largo, Fla 42. " 8.8 " 37.5 " 22.1 " 



9 Tybee Island, Ga 49.5 " 10.2 " 44. " 27.8 " 



9 Tybee Island, Ga 61.3 " 12.9 " 49.3 " 32. 



It will be seen from this that such size variation as is found can 

 be considered purely individual and not geographic. All of the 

 measured specimens are in the extreme striped condition, except 

 the maximum male, which has the stripe stopping at the caudal 

 margin of the pronotum and the general color quite brownish. 



The range of this striking species in the southeastern States is 

 chiefly confined to the country below the fall line, i.e., the sands and 

 gravels of the coastal plain and peninsular Florida, as it is apparently 

 rare and local in the Piedmont region (Thompson's Mills, Georgia, 

 and Druid Hill Park, Baltimore, Maryland). 



On Tybee and Cumberland Islands and at Wrightsville the species 

 was found among strand bushes and the low oaks, palmettoes, etc., 

 there growing; at Florence, Augusta and Albany it frequented high 

 weeds in or near fields, generally of cotton, and at Ashley Junction 

 it occurred in long-leaf pine woods. It was common only occa- 

 sionally, being generally but few in number and very frequently 

 associated with alutacea. 



8chistocerca alutaoea (Harris). 



North Carolina. Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 10 d\ 8 9 . 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



8 d\ 19. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



South Carolina. Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), eJl£' 2 ^ 



1 ". 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (H. & II.), 8 d\ 

 1 9, 



Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), gt sim(m , s lsl;ui( , vm 3()) vm 



i ii ' t *■ vttt i- inn ro\ (R. & H.), I juv. <?. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Brunswick) V III, 30, 1911, (H.), 8 cf , 



10 O, 1" V , 1 JUV. Cr • in 



Yemassee IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), j,, SUI) , . X , 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 5 cf , 6 9 . 



14 tf ' ' v - Groveland, Cannoche River, VII, 28, 



Florida. 1..U3, (J. C. Bradley), 1 cf • 



Jacksonville, (Priddey; Ashmead), 2 Billy's Island VI-VII, 1912, IX. 1-5, 



cf, 3 9, [Hebard Chi.]; XI, 5, 1911, 1913 » ( J - C - Bradley), 10 cf, 69, 



W. T. Davis). 1 r; VIII, 25, 1911, 2 ray. c?, 2 juv. 9 . 



(R ^ H) 5 cf 1 4 9 Jordan s, Billys Island, \ 111, dl, 



Atlantic Beach, 'vni, 24-25, 1911, c 19!3, (J- C. Bradley), 3 c? , 2 9 . 



(R it H ) °8 cf 9 7 9 Suwannee Creek, v III, 28, 1911, 



Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), (R- & H.) 17 c? 1 , 2 9 



1 ^ Homervdle, Mil, 2i, 1911, (R. <k H.), 



(?eor ^ a - Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 3 cf , 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 19. 29. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



2 o\ Bradley), 8 cf , 7 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Regarding this species, it seems most desirable to give under 

 localities a summary of the color conditions, as well as the principal 

 uncorrelated variational features, found in the adults of this extensive 

 series. We have restricted ourselves to those features which bear 

 upon the supposed distinctness of alutacea and rubiginosa. 



Weldon. One, rubiginosa phase. 



Wilmington. Seven, alutacea phase. Two, rubiginosa phase. 

 Males. Considerable variation in head width in six alutacea phase, 

 this feature not typical in most, one specimen has head as wide as 

 similarly sized or even larger rubiginosa phase males. Frontal 

 costa width not typical in all striped specimens. 



Winter Park. Eighteen, all rubiginosa phase. Frontal costa and 

 head width very variable, as much as the extremes of the two phases. 

 One female has head and pronotum width typical of alutacea phase, 

 but frontal costa and caudal femora typical of rubiginosa phase. 



Columbia. One, rubiginosa phase. 



Isle of Palms. Two, rubiginosa phase, but with head and pronotum 

 decidedly (c?) or weakly (9) striped. 



Ashley Junction. Twenty-three, alutacea phase. Three, showing 

 rubiginosa tendencies. Two, rubiginosa phase. 



Yemassee. Eleven, alutacea phase. Two, practically intermediate 

 in color. Eight, rubiginosa phase; the males (six) show considerable 

 variation in head width, fastigium and frontal costa width and 

 depth of caudal femora. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Augusta. One, intermediate in color and structure. 



Tybee Island. Two, rubiginosa phase. 



Isle of Hope. One, alutacea phase. Three, intermediate in color. 

 Four, rubiginosa phase. The males (six) show no other structural 

 intermediates, but specimens intermediate in color have deep femora. 



Sandfly. Five, alutacea phase. Four, rubiginosa phase. 



Brunswick. Eleven, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea phase. 



Jesup. Seven, rubiginosa phase. Four, alutacea phase. Males 

 show little, and then connected, difference in fastigial width; costal 

 width variation very considerable, but connected. 



Groveland. One, rubiginosa phase. 



Billy's Island. Fourteen, rubiginosa phase. One, intermediate. 

 One, alutacea type. 



Jordan's. Four, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea phase. 



Suwannee Creek. Eighteen, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea 

 phase. The latter (cf ) has the frontal costa no narrower than in 

 numerous decided rubiginosa phase individuals. 



Homerville. Five, rubiginosa phase. One, alutacea phase. Struc- 

 tural differences in fastigium in these but little and connected, ex- 

 tremes decided, as in the case of femoral depth. 



Albany. Four, alutacea phase. One, rubiginosa phase. Males 

 (three) all alutacea, one has frontal costa typical, others have this 

 very much broader. 



Spring Creek. Fifteen, rubiginosa phase. 



Jacksonville. Eleven, rubiginosa phase. Four, alutacea phase. 

 Those collected by ourselves (seven rubiginosa, two alutacea) show no 

 marked structural differences in fastigium in striped and unicolorous 

 individuals. Head width little variable and apparently with extremes 

 connected. Femoral depth difference appreciable. 



Atlantic Beach. Thirty-two, rubiginosa phase. Two, inter- 

 mediate (maculate tegmina type). Twenty-one, alutacea phase. 

 Specimens of alutacea phase have the frontal costa of usual rubiginosa 

 width. 



Live Oak. One, alutacea phase. 



We also have before us from New Jersey alone, one hundred and 

 twenty-eight specimens collected in southern New Jersey by Dr. 

 Henry Fox, 69 a series of twenty-two from Stafford's Forge with exact 

 habitat data, another of twelve from Taunton and a considerable 



69 Recorded by that author as "S. alutacea (Typical race); S. rubiginosa 

 (= rubiginosa phase of alutacea), and S. sp. cf. obscura (= unicolorous phase of 

 obscura)." Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, pp. 507-509, (1914). 




19 10.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



number from the State secured by various collectors at numerous 

 localities. These all bear out our above-expressed general conclu- 

 sions. The Taunton series form a particularly interesting illustra- 

 tion of intergradation, which is also marked in the other lots where 

 the series are of sufficient size. The only exception to the latter 

 statement seems to be that the alutacea phase is very rare on the 

 barrier beach coastal dunes, as we have seen but one individual ( 9 ) 

 of that phase which was taken in a strand habitat (Seaside Park, 

 New Jersey). The Isle of Palms individuals also show a tendency 

 toward alutacea in the indication of an incomplete stripe. 



We have examined a series of Key West, Florida, individuals of 

 both sexes, all being rubiginosa phase, and these show great variation 

 in the width of the head. 



The generally greater size of the individuals from the barrier 

 beaches of New Jersey and longer tegmina of the same, when com- 

 pared with material from the interior pine-land of the State, a point 

 to which we have already called attention, 70 loses some of its 

 apparent significance when the large series from that State now 

 available are considered. The tegminal length is now known to be 

 individually variable in both the pine-land and beach specimens. 

 Southward the difference between the strand and more interior 

 material is less pronounced than in New Jersey, although the largest 

 individuals from a general region are, as a rule, from the beaches. 

 This is not invariable, as Winter Park, North Carolina; Yemassee, 

 South Carolina; Isle of Hope and Brunswick, Georgia, and Jackson- 

 ville, Florida, all localities removed from the strand proper, are 

 represented by very large individuals. The Isle of Palms specimens, 

 which are from typical strand situations, are of but average size. 



Measurements (in millimeters) of extremes of the series here 



examined are as follows : 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



cf Ashley Junction, S. C. 



{alutacea) 28.2 6.1 24.3 17. 



cf Brunswick, Ga. 



(rubiginosa) 28.3 6.7 25.5 16.1 



cf Albany, Ga. 



(alutacea) 27.5 6. 25.5 16.5 



cf Tybee Island, Ga. 



(rubiginosa) 36.2 8.4 32. 19.4 



cf Billy's Island, Ga. 



(rubiginosa) 36. 7.9 32.5 19.8 



70 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 293, (1907). 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



cf Atlantic Beach, Fla. 



(rubiginosa) 39.3 8.5 32.8 20.5 



9 Winter Park, N. C. 



(rubiginosa) 46.5 10. 35. 22.3 



9 Sandfly, Ga. 



(alutacea) 47.2 9.2 35.6 23. 



9 Live Oak, Fla. 



(alutacea) 45. 8.3 34.5 21.9 



9 Yemassee, S. C. 



(rubiginosa) 50.6 11.2 40.3 25.9 



9 Atlantic Beach, Fla. 



(rubiginosa) 60.8(abdomen 11.3 41.8 26.8 



9 Atlantic Beach, Fla. distended) 



(rubiginosa) 56. 11.1 43.8 25.8 



The Atlantic Beach and Jacksonville series average large, the 

 Ashley Junction series shows widely different extremes in size, but 

 the average is medium, while the Yemassee, Winter Park, Wilming- 

 ton and Brunswick representations are very variable individually 

 in this respect. The Billy's Island specimens average large but 

 vary greatly, particularly in the male sex. The Albany specimen 

 is average, while the two Tybee individuals (cf) are very large. 



In the southeastern States the range of this species does not extend 

 above the fall line except where the insect has penetrated a short 

 distance up a broad river valley or, in the western part of the States, 

 has pushed in from the Mississippi valley drainage by way of the 

 Tennessee valley. 



The species was taken in a variety of habitats : in hammock and in 

 marsh about edge of same (Atlantic Beach), also in pine woods at- 

 the same locality; in pine woods, both long- and short-leaf, (Jackson- 

 ville, Sandfly, Isle of Hope, Yemassee, Winter Park, Weldon, Ashley 

 Junction and Albany); along the edge of short-leaf pine woods 

 (Columbia) ; in marshy land on the edge of hammock (Homerville) ; 

 in high bushes and "bracken" along edge of swamp (Suwannee 

 Creek); in tidal marsh (Tybee Island); in high bushes on edge of 

 swampy depression filled with gums (Wilmington); in high bushes 

 along drain near pine woods (Augusta) and from dune vegetation, i.e., 

 bayberry, oak, briars and palmetto (Isle of Palms). By comparison 

 of these data with the information given above on the phases in each 

 series, evidence concerning the habitat association of the color forms 

 can be obtained. 



Schistooerca serialis (Thunberg).'i 



Schistocerca americana of authors. 



71 This name has already been discussed by Hebard, Ent. News, XXVI, p. 406. 

 (1915). 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



205 



Virginia. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 15)13, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 



North Carolina. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 9. 

 Winter Park, IX. 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 d*. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf. 



Manning, V, 27 and 30, 1914, (W. 



Stone), 2d 1 , 19, [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 J> . 



Georgia. 



Clayton, 2.000-3,700 feet, VI, 

 (W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 



1909, 



Thompson's Mills, spring, (H. A. 



Allard), 1 9, [U. S. X. M.J. 

 Buckhead,VIII,2, 1913, (R.A II.), Id". 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 3 juv. 9. • 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & II.;, 1 ?. 

 Billy's Island, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 tf 1 ; 



VI. 12, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 3 <?. 

 Jesup, IX. 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 9. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 

 Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 29. 

 Savannah, VIII, 7, 1878, (Grote), 



1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 2 d\ 



2 9, [Hebard Cln.]; IX, 3, 1911, 

 (W. T. Davis), 19. 



South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d\ 1 9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 19. 



Drury, in 1775, described and figured this species as Libell[ula\ 

 americanus; III. Nat. Hist., I, p. 128, PI. XLIX, fig. 2, name in index. 

 This is preoccupied by Libellula americana of Linnaeus; Syst. Nat., ed. 

 X, p. 545, (1758) . The next name to apply to Drury's L. americanus is 

 Gryllus serialis of Thunberg; Mem. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. Petersbourg, 

 V, p. 241, (1815); described from St. Bartholomew, British West 

 Indies, which name consequently must be used for this species. 



The present series shows considerable variation in size and some 

 in color, but both features are individual in this material. The 

 three immature females from Macon are in different instars, the 

 most developed having just started the ecdysis passing into the 

 imagal condition. The species was also seen but not taken at 

 Orange, Virginia, July 21, 1913. 



This ubiquitous species occurred in a variety of habitats, more 

 generally, however, in pine woods. At no point visited by us was 

 it present in sufficient numbers to be an economic menace. 



Schistocerca damnifica damnifica (Saussure). 



North Carolina. 



Maryland. 



Great Falls, II, 26, 1905, (H. Barber), 



1 d\ [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Washington, D. C., IX, 1883, 1 d\ 



[Hebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Glencarlvn, V, 6, 1903, (A. N. Caudell), 



1 d\ [U. S. X. M.]. 

 Virginia Beach, XI, 1907, (Hopkins), 



19, [U. S. X. M.]. 



Trvon, IV, 29, (Fiske), 1 9. [U. S. 

 N.M.]. 



Georgia . 



Clavton 2,000 feet, V, 18-26, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 <? . 

 ( iainesville, IV, 2, 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 



1 o". 




206 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



The Clayton male is similar to the Gainesville and Atlanta speci- 

 mens already commented upon by us. 72 



Schistoceroa damnifica oalidior Rehn and Hebard. 



North Carolina. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 d», 19. 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf . 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 <f . 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf . 

 Manning, V, 23, 1914, (W. Stone), 



1 d\ [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 7 cf , 



49. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, IV and VIII, 1885, 

 (W. H. Ashmead), 2 9, [Hebard 

 Cln.]; VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 cf ; XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 



2 cf, 19. 



South Jacksonville, IX, 7 and 28, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 2 cf, 19. 

 Fort George, Duval Countv, 1 cf , 



[U. S. N. M.]. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 19. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 cf . 

 Newberry, XI, 19, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 



1 cf. 

 Archer, III, 1882, 1 cf, 19. [Hebard 



Cln.l. 



Daytona, XI, 11, 1911, Id 1 , 19, 



[U. S. N. M.]. 

 Rockledge, II, 5, 1880, 19, [U. S. 



N. M.]. 



Georgia. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 <f . 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 cf . 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf . 

 St. Catharine's Island, XI, 1878, 



(Grote), 1 cf, 19, [U. S. N. M.]. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 3 cf ; IV, 22-V, 12, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 



1 juv. cf. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. &H.), 1 cf. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf , 



29; XII, 1906, (H.), 2 cf, 19. 

 Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 9 . 

 Billy's Island, V, 28-VI, 2, VII, 1912, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 9 . 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 1 cf . 

 De Witt, IV, 23, 1912, 1 9 , [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Bainbridge, IX, 17-X, 19, 1910, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 cf . 



The majority of the above records have been quoted as bare 

 localities under the description of the race. 73 



As previously stated, material from Raleigh, North Carolina, and 

 Atlanta, Georgia, is true damnifica with a tendency toward d. calidior, 

 while individuals from the region about Wilmington and Fayetteville, 

 North Carolina, and Florence, South Carolina, while representing d. 

 calidior, show decided tendencies toward the northern form. Speci- 

 mens from Chester and Albany, Georgia, are not fully typical of 

 calidior, although decidedly nearer it than d. damnifica. 



From the evidence in hand, this species, both typical and the race 

 calidior, occurs two-brooded throughout the greater portion of its 

 range, as material before us from New Jersey localities extends 

 in dates from April to mid-November, while we have it taken every 

 month in the year in southern Georgia. The material from Fayette- 



72 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 261,262, (1912). 

 73 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 261,262, (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



ville, North Carolina, taken September 9, was recorded in our field 

 notes as recently moulted, while the single specimen taken at Bruns- 

 wick, Georgia, on August 30, is not quite mature. 



The species occurred in pine woods among the wire-grass and 

 other dry carpeting vegetation (Jacksonville and Live Oak), in 

 mixed oak and pine woods (Winter Park), on sandy knolls and 

 slopes with scattered pines and low oaks (Yemassee), in brushy 

 clearings (Suwannee Creek) and in palmetto flats (Brunswick). 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus Scudder. 



Georgia. Chase Prairie, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 6 d\ IX > 5 > 1913 > ( J - C - Bradley), 19. 



8 9,2 juv. d", 3 juv. 9 Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 6 d\ le y)> 1 <?> l 9 - 

 ii '! , -,i ,- Florida. 



^^ iuv.'9 ' 1915 ' 1 JUV " Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, , ,}'' :• ' k 5 9 V. V nr oi ion <t> x 



(R. & H.), 20 >, 18 9, 2 juv. d\ Ai ^f% 5?ach, VIH ' 24 ' 1911 ' (R " & 



Honiervme, VIII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), Li ™ 6ak ' VlII >" 26 > 1911 > < R " & H )' 



23 cT, 28 9, 2 juv. cf, 3 juv. 9. 6 & ' 



The female specimens from Atlantic Beach are exceptionally 

 large, the series from that locality measures in length as follows: 

 males, 14. to 14.8 mm., females, 20.2 to 22.6 mm. The rest of the 

 very large series here recorded shows no unusual variation in size 

 or other characters. In length the males measure from 12.5 to 16. 

 mm., females from 17.3 to 19.4 mm. 



The larger series listed above w r ere captured by beating, and with 

 little difficulty, as in southeastern Georgia and northeastern Florida 

 the species is frequently exceedingly plentiful, locally in the heavier 

 undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forests (Jesup, Hebardville, 

 Jacksonville), in like surroundings everywhere where the ground is 

 very low (Suwannee Creek, Homerville). It was also found fairly 

 abundant in wire-grass and other low plants on palmetto flats (Bruns- 

 wick). 



The known northern boundaries of the present species are con- 

 siderably extended by the above records; in Florida it is known 

 from as far south as Lakeland and as far west as De Funiak Springs. 



Campylacantha olivacea Scudder. 



Macon, Georgia, VII, 31, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?, 14 juv. d 1 , 11 juv. 9. 



The previous most eastern records for this species are Fayetteville 

 and Van Buren, in northwestern Arkansas. The intrusion of this 

 essentially Sonoran genus as far east as central Georgia is of peculiar 

 interest. The present species will probably be found at numerous 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



localities between those given above, when the intervening territory 

 is carefully investigated. 



This insect was found occasional everywhere in the thick grasses 

 and weeds along the edge of the woods at the Idle Hour Club, a few 

 miles outside of Macon. Vigorous and long-continued search for 

 adults resulted in the taking of a single mature male, still soft from 

 its last* moult, and a considerable series of immature examples. 

 These latter could be readily distinguished from other Locustid 

 young by their striking whitish antennae annulate with dark brown; 

 these colors have greatly faded in the dried specimens. 



Eotettix signatus Scudder. 



Jacksonville, Florida, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 

 Atlantic Beach, Fla., VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & H.), 12 d\ 10 9 . 

 Pablo Beach, Fla., IX, 5, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 1 d\ 



The specimens recorded above from Atlantic Beach are very large, 

 their length measuring as follows: males, 18.8 to 21.4 mm.; females, 

 27. to 30.6 mm. Specimens of this species from southern Florida 

 show that an extreme reduction in size southward is to be found in 

 this insect. 74 



The species was found at Atlantic Beach to be moderately numerous 

 in marshy land on the edge of a "hammock," where high saw-grass 

 and reeds mingled with much low green marsh vegetation and occa- 

 sional cypress shoots. It is known from the above localities south- 

 ward to Lakeland and Homestead, Florida. 



Eotettix pusillus Morse. 



North Carolina. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (H.), 2 *. ^ 1 gj£ ^^ m ^ 



South Carolina. (J- c - Bradley), 2 tf", 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (H.), 1 9 . ^t^ J' o\l% 1915 ' (H ' } ' 2 *' 



Yemassee IX, 4, 1911, (H.), 1 . *■ , 1 9 , HomerviUe,' M, 27, 1911, (H.), 



£ JUV. V • j -, 



Georgia. Florida 



W tmV S ?R n f \ l S° Q ^ VHI ' 9 ~ 10 ' L^e Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



iyio, \ix.), i a. 1 o 1 1 9 



The present singularly striking insect is distinguished by its 

 compact and abbreviate form, with short pronotum, the dorsum of 

 which is distinctly convex in longitudinal aspect, and by its dis- 

 tinctive coloration; this latter is due to a peculiar metallic sheen 

 which suffuses the entire insect and is particularly striking in life. 



All of the immature specimens before us have the median carina 



7 < See Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 396, (1914)'. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



of the dorsum of the pronotum more strongly raised and arcuate 

 than in the adults. 



The immature examples before us range in size from a very early 

 stage of development to the instar preceding maturity. These 

 specimens are very singularly colored, being blackish overlaid with 

 mars orange, the latter color forming a pale stripe on the post-ocular 

 portion of the head and strongly indicated over the face and the 

 constricted distal portion of the caudal femora. One of these 

 specimens, which has apparently best retained its coloration, has 

 the face nopal red. In life these specimens have a striking metallic, 

 velvety lustre, which in the dried examples is still weakly indicated. 



A very slight increase in size southward in individuals of the 

 species is shown by the present series. Females from Fayetteville 

 are among the smallest before us (length 15.5 to 16. mm.), while the 

 specimen of that sex from Live Oak is the largest (length 20. mm.). 

 In the series from Spring Creek the female is rather large, but the 

 males are as small as any in the present series (length 10. to 11. mm.). 

 The majority of specimens of this species have the abdomen decidedly 

 upcurved, which makes the measurement for the insects shorter 

 than would otherwise be the case. 



We have noticed that this species is rather sluggish in its actions 

 and was found to cling tenaciously to the stems of wire-grass, for 

 which plant it showed a decided preference. The species was found 

 in this wire-grass in short-leaf pine and oak woods (Fayetteville, 

 Florence, Yemassee, Warm Springs), and in the same plant in moist 

 but not swampy places in long-leaf pine woods (Albany, Hebardville, 

 Homerville, Live' Oak), at the latter locality being found also in 

 wire-grass and oak sprouts on the sides of a sink which apparently had 

 been recently deforested. The six specimens taken at Fayetteville, 

 after long and diligent search in a restricted area', constitute the 

 only series from a single localrty we have yet been able to secure 

 of this rare insect, which was previously known only from Denmark, 

 South Carolina, and Waycross and Thomasville, Georgia. It is in- 

 teresting to note that its range is not confined to the coastal plain 

 and that it has not been found within the range of E. signatus. 



Hesperotettix floridensis .Morse. 



Georgia. Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), „ ( R - &£■),; 4cf ,- fj? ■ m 



Id 1 , 19, 1 juv.9. Homerville, Mil, 27. 1911, (R.), 1 d\ 



Warm Springs, VIII, 9, 1913, (R.), 1 9 . 



The present insect is much more nearly related to H. speciosus 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



than to any other species of the genus, the most striking difference 

 in this insect being the abbreviate, rotundate tegmina. 



Little variation is shown by the above series of this very rare 

 insect. In coloration the adults from Augusta and Warm Springs 

 differ from the others in having the median carina of the pronotum 

 outlined in pompeian red. 



This species acts in an unusual manner when pursued, hiding on 

 the underside of the leaves of small plants, with only feet, antennae 

 and eyes showing from above. It was taken among low plants, 

 huckleberry, strawberry and many other varieties, in a sandy scrub- 

 oak area just above the fall line (Augusta), in heavy tangled under- 

 growth of pine and oak woods (Warm Springs), on low open land 

 covered with wire-grass and many low bushes and saw palmettoes 

 on the edge of high bushes and bracken along the border of the 

 Okeefenokee Swamp (Suwannee Creek) and in a very similar situa- 

 tion to the last, where, however, a heather-like plant, Kalmia hirsuta, 

 was predominant (Homer ville). The discovery of this insect just 

 above the fall line at Augusta and on the Piedmont plateau at Warm 

 Springs was rather surprising, as it was hitherto known only from 

 Waycross, Georgia, and Pablo Beach, San Pablo and Hastings, Florida. 



Hesperotettix brevipennis brevipennis (Thomas). 



Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, (H.; asleep at night in Andropogon sp.), 1 9. 

 Currahee Mountain, Georgia, 1,200 to 1,700 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (H.), 5 d\ 4 9 . 



Occasional specimens of this species were found from the edge 

 of the pine woods on the upper portion of the lower gradual slopes 

 of Currahee Mountain, to its summit. The specimens were taken 

 in bunch-grass, Cyperus sp., particularly where this was plentiful on 

 open slopes, and in the luxuriant mountain undergrowth of grasses, 

 vines and oak sprouts, under a low forest, predominant in black-jack 

 oak. 



In the southeastern United States this species was previously known 

 only from Sand Mountain, Georgia, and Lookout and Chehawhaw 

 Mountain and its vicinity in Alabama. 



Hesperotettix brevipennis pratensis (Scudder). 



Live Oak, Florida, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 d", 3 9.. 



It seems impossible to consider this insect other than a western 

 geographic race of H. brevipennis. Material from the type locality. 

 Dallas, Texas, shows hardly any structural differences outside of wing- 

 length, and the present series is nearly intermediate between such 

 specimens and typical brevipennis. Such intermediates were found and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



so recorded by Morse from Magazine Mountain, Arkansas. 75 The 

 tegminal length of the present scries of intermediates is as follows: 

 male, 12.; females, 12.5 to 12.7 mm. For the series of H. brevipennis 

 s.s. from Currahee Mountain, (leorgia, the tegminal length is: males, 

 8.4 to 9.8; females, 10 to 11.3 mm. 



The present insect is known to be distributed eastward along the 

 Gulf Coast as far as Live Oak, Florida, though from the country inter- 

 vening between coast and mountains in Georgia and Alabama the 

 species has not been recorded, while in the southern mountains 

 typical H. brevipennis is found to intergrade with the present race 

 far to the westward of this longitude. The very local nature of its 

 distribution, and the scarcity of the species in the east, creates 

 considerable difficulty when efforts to define its exact range are 

 made. One of the specimens recorded above was taken on sandy 

 soil among wire-grass and other low plants, the three others were 

 found in a somewhat similar environment, but in small clumps of 

 oaks about two feet in height on the border of a sink. 



Paratylotropidia beutenmuelleri Morse. 



We have before us two topotypic females of this remarkable insect, 

 taken by W. Beutenmliller near Black Mountain, North Carolina, 

 July, 1912. These specimens are in the Davis Collection and that of 

 the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The Gracilis Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



We find that M. gracilis, sylvaticus, similis, viridipes and deceptus 

 form a group in the present genus which may be termed the Gracilis 

 Group, the species in relationship following the order given above, 

 of which gracilis is more widely separated from the others than they 

 are from each other. 



Scudder's placing of gracilis in his Plebejus Series and viridipes in 

 his Inornatus Series is wholly illogical. 



Melanoplus similis Morse. 



Bluemont, Virginia, VII, 1, 1914, (J. D. Rabun Bald, Rabun County, Ga., VII, 



^Hood), 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 &. 



Clayton, Rabun County, Georgia, VI, Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, Ga., 



1909, (W. T. Davis), 1^,19. VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 2 9. 



The present specimens agree very well with Morse's description, 

 the cerci are slightly more slender than in the drawing given by that 

 author. 76 One of the females taken on Tuckoluge Creek was found 

 in a bush. 



75 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 68, p, 45, (1907). 



76 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, p. 46, fig. 6, (1904). 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Melanoplus viridipes Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus juvencus Scudder, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, 

 p. 14. Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, pp. 1.29, 266, PI. XVIII, fig. 1. 

 [No locality for described type. 77 ] 



The above synonymy is due to a most unusual confusion of material. 

 Scudder, apparently by accident, placed a specimen of M. viridipes 

 without data in his series of M. puer. Later, finding it to be different 

 from that species, he had the specimen figured and described it as 

 M. juvencus. This specimen is now in the Scudder collection, marked • 

 Scudder's type M. juvencus and "drawn"; it has been selected as 

 the single type, for it is the specimen which furnished the original 

 description and figure of juvencus. It was necessary to select a 

 single type, for although, with the description Scudder figured and 

 described but one specimen, he derived the data given there, "Fort 

 Reed, Orange County, Florida, April 8; Comstock, " from another 

 male specimen of the type series of M . puer, which specimen he also 

 marked Scudder's type M. juvencus. His work was apparently 

 done carelessly and at different times, other explanation for such an 

 occurrence being incomprehensible. 



Melanoplus deceptus Morse. 



Black Mountain, North Carolina, VI, Clavton, Rabun Countv, Georgia, VI, 

 1912, (W. Beutenmiiller), 2 cf, 3 9, 1909, (W. T. Davis)," 1 d\ 



[Davis Cln.]. 



The Decorus Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



Five-species of this group are found in the Sabalian or Basic Austral 

 zone of the southeastern United States, which are all closely related 

 and are among the more formative elements of the plastic genus 

 Melanoplus. No intergradation between the forms is shown by the 

 material before us, but in every large series a certain slight amount 

 of variation often gives evidence of the derivation of the members 

 of the group. It is our opinion that five valid species exist in the 

 known material of the group and that no geographic races are 

 represented. 



Of these five species Scudder placed decorus in his Inornatus 

 Series, and attenuatus in his Fasciatus Series, both of which series 

 are anomalous aggregations of widely separated forms. The 

 senior author in describing hebardi placed it in the genus Eotettix, 

 since Scudder chiefly separated that genus from Melanoplus by the 

 male subgenital plate having a distinct subapical tubercle and the 

 pronotum having the median carina well developed and percurrent. 



77 This specimen has been fixed as single type by the present authors, Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 84, (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



These characters apply as well to the species of the Decorus Group 

 as they do to the semis Eotettix, which genus is, however, valid, as 

 it possesses other excellent characters. Morse correctly placed 

 auslralis beside attcnuatus, and the fifth species was hitherto unde- 

 scribed. Morse states that M. decoratus is closely related to M. 

 decorus and compares the two species in his original description; in 

 reality the two species belong to very distinct groups. 



The following analysis gives the important characters, found 

 principally in the male genitalia, of the present group. 



Important Color Characters. — The post-ocular fuscous stripe is 

 usually strongly, sometimes weakly continued, but always present 

 on the metazona in decorus, in the other species this stripe stops 

 abruptly at the principal sulcus. In the male sex of australis it is 

 very infrequently interrupted on the prozona by narrow oblique 

 faseise of the general color of the insect, 78 this species is the only one 

 of the group which has the sides of the abdomen wholly immaculate. 

 In nubilus the males have the dark markings on the sides of the 

 abdomen very large and the dorsum of the abdomen very dark. 



Furcula. — (Figured for all the species.) In decorus normally 

 widely divergent, slender, evenly tapering, acuminate and slightly 

 over one-third as long as supra-anal plate; in australis broad at base, 

 tapering to slender digitate tips which are due chiefly to an abrupt 

 mesal shoulder on the inner margins, one-third as long as supra-anal 

 plate and weakly divergent; in attenuatus weakly divergent, slender, 

 evenly tapering, acuminate and scarcely one-fourth as long as 

 supra-anal plate; in hebardi small knob-like plates with divergent 

 angulate apices, scarcely one-fifth as long as supra-anal plate; in 

 nubilus usually subparallel, scarcely tapering but very slender 

 fingers, less than one-third as long as the short supra-anal plate. 



Supra-anal Plate. — (Figured for all the species.) In decorus and 

 australis elongate, shield-shaped with sides meso-distad evenly 

 convex, the narrow percurrent median sulcus lying between sharp 

 but not high walls in the proximal portion of the plate, beyond 

 which are a pair of more distant, short, blunt ridges, which are evenly 

 convergent and almost join near the apex in decorus and at the apex 

 of the plate in australis, near the base of the plate on each margin 

 are very weak indications of a marginal plication. This plate is of 

 similar general structure in the other species, but shows the following 



78 Females of australis have this interruption almost always present, in sonic 

 specimen? it is very pronounced, leaving only traces of a fuscous band: such an 

 interruption is also found in this sex of .1/. nubilus. 



15 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



striking differences: in attenuates not as long, with sides in more than 



of the plate are how eve i ^ the late 



eha"s as given for the first two species of the group smnlar, but 



££> ventrtd, reaching a nt«e -^J^^fflS 

 S£ J"Jt^'S^VSS witn ape. very slightly 



r; r r^nC" entra. ,0, than J-^"" — 



cercus shows this latter condition and ^ the apex is we 



• x, i -c i ;« hehnrdi the emargmation of the aistai niaigm 



aP «T^ta/ Plata -In all of the species small, greatly tapering so 



apically, this tuberculation somewhat more deciaea 

 in <mv other of the latter species. 



We have not discussed the tegmina, for m every large senes of 




1916.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



these species they are found to vary in size, width, separation and 

 truncation, though always having their apices rounded. 



Melanoplus decorus Scudder. PI. XIII, figs. 1, 2. 



Wilmington, North Carolina, IX, S, 101 1, I R. & H.), 4S d\ 17 9 . . 

 Winter Park, X. (/.. IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 20 d", 12 9 . 

 Lake Waccamaw, N. C, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 26 cf, 89. 



The large scries before us shows no striking size or structural 

 variation, adhering closely to the characters given in the above 

 analysis. The four males previously recorded by the authors from 

 Newbern, North Carolina, have the furcula somewiiat broader in 

 varying degrees, and in two specimens considerably less divergent 

 than in the types or in the present series; they are otherwise 

 perfectly typical. 



In coloration individuals range from empire yellow through all 

 shades of that color to medal bronze, the females showing more 

 variation than the males which are usually more brightly colored. 

 A very few melanistic females are before us, in which specimens the 

 general coloration is bone brown much suffused with black. In all 

 of the specimens the post-ocular fuscous stripe is present on the 

 metazona, it is very pronounced in nearly all of the males, but in 

 some specimens of this sex and in numerous females it is much 

 weaker than on the prozona. The blackish coloration of the tubercle 

 of the subgenital plate of the male is confined to its dorsal surface. 

 In life the species is very brilliantly and strikingly colored, but, as 

 in the other species of this delicately colored group, the dried speci- 

 mens have the yellow tones much faded and discolored in the majority 

 of specimens. A great similarity to the brilliantly colored indi- 

 viduals of Paroxya atlantica from this region w T as noted. 



No great size variation is found in the material before us, the 

 extremes in length being as follows: males 17. to 20., females 20.5 to 

 25.3 mm. 



The species was found very locally distributed in low plants and 

 scant grasses about a swampy depression in pine woods in which w-ere 

 a few black gum trees (Winter Park), in heavy undergrowth of almost 

 swampy pine woods (Lake Waccamaw) and common in the wet mucky 

 border of a swampy tract which was covered thickly with grasses, bog 

 plants, such as pitcher-plants and venus' fly-traps, and dotted with 

 low bushes (Wilmington). 



Outside the above localities the species is known only from Pungo 

 Bluff and Newbern, North Carolina. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Melanoplus australis Morse. PI. XIII, figs. 3, 4. 



Yemassee, South Carolina, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 54 d% 6 9 . 

 Sandfly, Georgia, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 65 cf, 43 9. 

 Isle of Hope, Ga., IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 41 cf, 4 juv. 9 . 



The large series of the present species shows no striking structural 

 variation. The insect is larger and more attenuate than M. decorus 

 and probably very similar to M. attenuatus in this respect. The 

 extremes in length in the present series are as follows: males 16.4 to 

 22., females 23. to 27. mm. The males average in length about 19. mm. 



In coloration individuals range from lemon chrome, frequently 

 suffused with greenish or orange, to army brown, usually showing 

 traces of a yellowish suffusion. The species is the most brilliantly 

 colored of the group, individuals in life being very striking. The 

 distinctive differences in color pattern are discussed in the analysis 

 of the group. 



It was noted at Sandfly that the very brightly colored, yellow or 

 greenish yellow, individuals were taken on green plants, while the 

 dull yellow or brownish specimens were found among the yellowing 

 and brown fronds of the bracken. The males were active, but not 

 alert and were easy to capture ; the females were much less active and 

 were usually met with in the heavier undergrowth where much 

 greater concealment was afforded. Females from Isle of Hope are 

 represented by four immature individuals only, indicating that 

 adults of the species had been present but a very short time. 



The species was found not unusual through the low bushes, grasses 

 and low swamp-loving plants on low wet ground through the short- 

 leaf pine woods (Yemassee), very common in tall, rank, succulent 

 undergrowth in somewhat swampy gray-bark pine woods (Sandfly, 

 Isle of Hope) ; at the latter locality it was particularly numerous in 

 patches of yellow and brown bracken. 



The species was previously known from the single type specimen, 

 a male from Savannah, Georgia. 



Melanoplus attenuatus Scudder. PI. XIII, figs. 5, 6. 



Sullivan Island, South Carolina, IX, 5, Ashley Junction, S. C, VIII, 15, 1913, 



1911, (R. & H.), 1 tf\ (R.), 3 juv. o\ 3 juv. 9 . 



Magnolia, Charleston County, S. C, Augusta, Georgia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & 



IX, 5, 1911, (H.), 9 <?. H.), 3 juv. tf, 1 juv. 9 . 



The striking dentate plications on each side of the supra-anal 

 plate near its base, are more pronounced in the specimen from Sullivan 

 Island than in those from Magnolia. The extremes in length in the 

 adult males before us are 18.5 and 20.6 mm. 



In general coloration the insects are empire yellow much suffused 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



with brown. The post-ocular fuscous stripe is as heavy on the 

 prozona as in the most decidedly marked males of the series of 

 M. australis before us. 



A single specimen was found on the somewhat marshy, sandy 

 ground covered with low vegetation (Sullivan Island), but the species 

 was found fairly numerous in moist places in the pine woods in the 

 low heavy undergrowth of plants and scrub oaks less than a foot 

 in height (Magnolia). A thunder storm prevented the accumulation 

 of a large series at the latter locality. In mid-August the young 

 alone were to be found in a depression overgrown with tall grasses 

 in long-leaf pine woods (Ashley Junction), and in late July a few 

 small young were found in short grasses in a somewhat swampy 

 spot in similar woods of the flat country just below the fall line 

 (Augusta). 



The species was previously known from the three male type speci- 

 mens from Smithville, at the mouth of the Cape Fear River, in 

 extreme southeastern North Carolina, and from one male and three 

 young from Denmark, South Carolina. 



Melanoplus hebardi (Rehn). PI. XIII, figs. 7, 8. 



1906. Eotettix hebardi, Ent. News, XVII, p. 234. [Tyty Plantation, Thomas 

 County, Georgia.] 



Albany, Georgia, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 juv. d 1 , 2 juv. 9 . 



The most important characters which separate this species from 

 the others of the present group are given in the preceding analysis. 

 The figures of the genitalia, which accompany the original description, 

 are faulty and misleading. The type, which is 22 mm. in length, 

 is as large as the largest male of M. australis, which species averages 

 considerably less than this measurement. The type of the present 

 species remains the unique adult. 



The above series of about half-grown young was taken in the 

 heavy undergrowth of the long-leaf pine forest along the Flint River. 



Melanoplus nubilus new species. PI. XII, fig. 11; pi. XIII, figs. 9, 10. 



More closely related to M. australis, attenuatus and hebardi than 

 to M. decorus, differing decidedly in the characters given in the 

 analysis on pages 212 to 215. Females are scarcely separable from 

 dark females of M . decorus, though the males show wide differences 

 in the two species. 



Type: d"; Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina. Sep- 

 tember 9, 1911. (Rehn and Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type 

 No. 107.] 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Description of Type. — Size smaller than in M. attenuatus; form 

 slightly more attenuate, with pronotum less ample and head slightly 

 more prominent. Tegmina abbreviate, rotundate. 79 The important 

 genital characters, of which the form of the supra-anal plate (fig. 9) 

 and cercus (fig. 10) are the most decided, are given in the preceding 

 analysis, while the abdominal coloration, also given there, is dis- 

 tinctive in this sex. 



Allotype: 9 . Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — The vertex is found to be less depressed 

 mesad and the facial costa still more weakly sulcate than in females 

 of M . decorus, while the dorsum of the pronotum narrows even less 

 than in that species and has, in consequence, the cephalic and caudal 

 width nearly subequal. 



The usual variation found in the two species, however, makes it 

 often impossible to separate females by the above characters, and we 

 are obliged to admit that we are unable to find definite differential 

 characters for females of the two species. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



cT & 9 9 



type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 16 15.8-16.8 24.7 21.2-25* 



Length of pronotum 3.8 3.7-4.1 4.9 4.9-5.3 



Length of tegmen 2.9 2.6-3.8 4.4 3.8-4.5 



Greatest width of same 2 1.8-2.4 2.8 2.6-3 



Length of caudal femur 9.9 9.3-10.1 13 12.4-13.1 



Greatest width of same 2.2 2.2- 2.4 2.8 2.7- 3 



The furcula of the present insect vary somewhat from the normal 

 regular and parallel form to one in which the sides are less regular 

 and the fingers divergent, the cerci also show some individual varia- 

 tion, two of the males have the ventral expansion of the tip of the 

 cercus decidedly produced and sharply acute-angulate. 



In coloration the series of specimens before us is quite uniform, 

 much resembling dark individuals of M. decorus, except that the post- 

 ocular fuscous stripe is abruptly terminated on the lateral lobes of 

 the pronotum at the principal sulcus and the males have the dark 

 markings on the sMes of the abdomen much more pronounced with 

 the dorsum of the same very dark. Half of the females have the 

 post-ocular fuscous stripe on the prozona interrupted by narrow 

 oblique pale fasciae as in M. australis. The dark males have a 



9 The tegmina show almost as much individual variation in this species as in 

 the others of this group. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



lacquered appearance in which a brownish and greenish suffusion 

 is apparent, the females range in general coloration from pecan 

 brown to warm sepia with markings of a darker shade. 



All of the material before us was taken in short-leaf pine woods 

 around a mill pond at Fayetteville, North Carolina. The males were 

 occasional in gall-berry and other bushes and were found usually two 

 or three feet from the ground, "sitting up warily or jumping away," 

 while the females were decidedly less abundant and less active and 

 by hiding sometimes eluded pursuit. 



Specimens Examined. — 20; 13 males, 6 females and 1 immature 

 female. 



Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina, IX, 9, 1911, 

 (R. & H.), 13 o", 6 9, 1 juv. 9 , type, allotype and paratypes. 



The Tribulus Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



The present group contains M. obovatipennis, morsei, tepidus, 

 tribulus, tribidoides, devius and decoratus; the species in relationship 

 following the order given above, of which the first three species are 

 very closely related, the next three likewise, while the last species 

 is the most aberrant of the group. Scudder placed obovatipennis 

 in his anomalous Fasciatus Series, the relationships of the other 

 species, which are all more recent in description, have been correctly 

 though indefinitely given with the descriptions of the same, except- 

 ing M. decoratus, which species Morse considered more nearly related 

 to M. decorus. 



Melanoplus tribulus Morse. 



Pennsylvania. Georgia. 



Pink Hill, Newtown Square, VI, 19, Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 1 <?. 



1908, (R.), 1 cf; VII, 15, 1911, Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



(H.), 19. Davis), 1$. 



Maryland. Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 1 



B f fpS-W 2 ' (J - °- H ° 0d) ' DJtafvm, 7, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. cA 



"SKl'l ft f'^'uT' (A - K - Jasp^VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. *. 

 tisner), 19, LU. b. iV M.J. gharp Mountaill) V III, 6, 1913, (R.), 



Virginia. 3 cf, 1 juv. 9 . 



Green Dell Farm near Pohick, VIII, Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



25, 1912, (A. N. Caudell), 1 <?, 2mv cf, 1 juv.9. 



fU S N M 1 * lcinitv ot ©tone Mountain, \ 111, 3, 



' ',, _ ,. 1913, (H.), 1 juv. 9. 



horth Carolina. i >()St Mountain, Cobb County, VII, 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (H.), 1 tf. 13, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 19. 



Males of this insect are almost inseparable from males of M . devius, 

 for the characters which Morse gives in his original descriptions do 

 not hold. Females of the present species, however, differ greatly 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



from females of devius in being less robust, with narrower vertex 

 of the fastigium and narrower ovipositor jaws, and in having the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum less deep and the post-ocular fuscous 

 stripe there pronounced, narrow and sharply defined from the pale 

 ventral portion of the lateral lobes. 



The males and young recorded above from Georgia could not be 

 assigned to this species were it not quite certain that M. devius is 

 found in Georgia only at the highest elevations in the Appalachians. 



Specimens before us from New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania 

 are rather small and the males have the subgenital plate and preceding- 

 ventral abdominal segments wholly immaculate; this coloration is 

 found in but a single southern male which is from Clayton, Georgia. 



The northernmost specimens here recorded were taken along the 

 edge of a deciduous forest adjacent to a barren serpentine outcrop 

 (Pink Hill) and among low bushes on sandy soil (Beltsville). In 

 Georgia the species was found very locally in the undergrowth of 

 forests composed chiefly of deciduous trees, particularly on hillsides. 



The species was previously known from Staten Island, New York, 

 Stafford's Forge, New Jersey, and Sharptop Mountain, Georgia. 



Melanoplus devius Morse. 



Jefferson, North Carolina, VIII, 1907, Spartanburg, South Carolina, VIII, 6, 



(F. Sherman), 1 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. 1913, (H.), 1 9 , 12 juv. &, 11 juv. 9 . 



Charlotte, N. C, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & Wilson's Gap, Mountain City, Georgia, 



H.), 3 <?, 13 juv. cf, 13 juv. 9 . VIII, 22, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



The difficulty of separating males of this species from those of 

 M . tribulus is remarkable, considering that the females of the two 

 are very different, in devius being more robust, with broader fastigium 

 of the vertex and broader ovipositor jaws, with lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum deeper and the post-ocular fuscous stripe not sharply 

 outlined there, the lateral lobes being wholly infuscated with the 

 dorsal portion broadly darkened. 



The series from Charlotte and Spartanburg were found by careful 

 search in local areas of the rather scant undergrowth of the heavy 

 deciduous forest. The species was previously known from Wythe- 

 ville, Virginia, and Topton, Asheville and Mount Pisgah, North 

 Carolina. 



Melanoplus decoratus Morse. 



Orange, Virginia, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & Clayton, Georgia, VI, 1909, (W. T. 

 H.), 1 cf, 5 9 , 1 juv. d*. Davis), 1 d 1 . 



Macon, Ga., VII, 31, 1913, (H.), 1 9 . 



The present insect may be readily separated from its allies by the 

 very peculiar subgenital plate of the male, which has a greatly devel- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



oped apical tubercle, and by the very strongly protuberant vertex 

 in both sexes. 



Adults of the insect were found scarce in the undergrowth of a 

 heavy chesnut forest on Southwest Mountain (a hill near Orange), 

 and among oak sprouts in a tangle of other plants and vines in pine 

 woods (Macon). The above records extend the known range of the 

 species both northward and southward. 



The Puer Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



The following species belong to the present group, M. puer, rotundi- 

 pennis, stegocercus, mirus, scapularis and strumosus. In all of these 

 species both sexes have the prosternal spine prominent and very 

 broad, flattened cylindric with apex transversely excised, the sides 

 rounded; the caudal tibiae are glaucous, often more or less flavescent 

 at base and tip, with spines black or black-tipped. The species 

 are property associated as listed above, no one of them shows very 

 close affinity to any of the others, however, as each has one or several 

 decided and unusual characters peculiar to itself. 



Scudder's association of the then known species, puer and rotundi- 

 pennis, is of no value, the situation in regard to the latter is discussed 

 below. Morse, at the time he described strumosus, did not discuss 

 its relationship. 



Melanoplus rotundipennis Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus inops Scudder, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc, XXXVI, p. 16; 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, pp. 130, 329. [Florida.] 



Georgia. Thomasville, XI, 30, XII, 1, 1903, 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 2 9 . (H.), 29. 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, Metcalfe, IX, 17, 1903, (for Hebard). 



(R. &H.), 9 c?, 7 9, 1 juv.9. !?• _. . . 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R.), Florida. 



1 <?. Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



Billy's Island, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 d\ H.), 11 d", 6 9 ; IX, 7, 1913, XI, 5, 



3 juv. d\ 2 juv.9; VI, VII, IX, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 4 &. 



1912-13, (J. C. Bradley), 7^,89, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



1 juv.9. H.), 2 c?, 2 9. 



Boney Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.) 



ley), 4 C?, 4 9 . 9 d\ 9 9 . 



Examination of the types of M. rotundipennis and M . inops shows 

 that the two are absolutely synonymous. The figures of the type 

 of inops in Scudder's Revision are very poor, the furcula indeed 

 being wholly overlooked; the figure of rotundipennis is, however, 

 quite satisfactory, though the base of the cercus in lateral aspect is 

 drawn much too wide. 



Females of this species constitute the basis for Scudder's record 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of M. puer from Jacksonville, Florida, in his Revision. 80 A series of 

 sixty-nine specimens from northern Florida have been referred by 

 the present authors to the synonymous inops, while the three females 

 mentioned above from Thomasville and Metcalfe, Georgia, were unfor- 

 tunately recorded by us as M. sylvestris, 81 females of which species 

 may at once be roughly separated by their red caudal tibia?. 



Scudder's placing of the present species is most unsatisfactory, 

 as it is a development of the M. puer type; his opinion that the 

 synonymous inops belonged to a widely different group demonstrates 

 amply his own uncertainty in the matter. 



A certain amount of size variation is appreciable, the series from 

 the Okeefenokee Swamp and Jacksonville averaging larger than the 

 others. 



Measurements (in millimeters) of extremes. 



Least width between 

 Length of body. tegmina. 



&& 9 9 cTcf 9 9 



Cumberland Island, Ga... 13.6-16.7 17.8-20.5 .6-1 1.4-1.9 



Jacksonville, Fla 17-17.9 20.4-23.3 .8-1.1 1.1-1.7 



LiveOak, Fla 14-16.1 18-20.3 .9-1 1.3-1.7 



The greatest tegminal separation is shown in a Thomasville 

 female, where the least intervening width is 2.4 mm. 



The general coloration of the species varies from fuscous to orange 

 cinnamon. All of the males have the dorsal portion of the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum shining black, but more than half of the 

 females have this marking abruptly discontinued at the metazona. 

 The caudal femora range from an immaculate type of coloration to 

 one in which they are heavily twice banded with fuscous, the immacu- 

 late type being found more often in the males. 



The species was found, usually locally distributed, in the under- 

 growth of the long-leaf pine woods, but was also sometimes met 

 with in the undergrowth of mixed pine and oak woods (Live Oak), 

 and on palmetto flats (Brunswick). As Morse has noted, the differ- 

 ences in general coloration of specimens were found to correspond 

 with the color of the surrounding soil or dead leaves in which indi- 

 viduals were taken. 



The present species has a very limited distribution, northward being 

 known from Brunswick west to Thomasville in Georgia, and south- 

 ward as far as Lakeland in central Florida, in which latitude it appears 



80 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 253, (1898). 



81 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 791, (1905). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



to be very scarce. From the latter region, southward on the main- 

 land of peninsular Florida. M. puer replaces the present insect. 



Melanoplus stegocercus 82 new species. PI. XII, fig. 12; pi. XIII, figs. 11, 12, 13. 



Related to M. rotundipennis, but differing very greatly in the male 

 genitalia. The female sex is unknown. 



Type : cf ; Cannoche River at Groveland, Bryan County, Georgia. 

 July 28, 1913. (J. C. Bradley.) [Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., Type 

 No. 5273.] 



Description of Type, — Size and form similar to M . scapularis, but 

 somewhat heavier; cephalic and median femora somewhat swollen 

 as in M. rotundipennis, and with dorsum of pronotum having the 

 lateral carinse weakly and regularly diverging caudad as in that 

 species. Tegmina similar to those of scapularis, but not attingent 

 (least width between same 1 mm.). Extremity of abdomen broadly 

 and decidedly produced, tumid, but not at all upcurved; supra-anal 

 plate much as in scapularis, but with angles of lateral margins less 

 distal, furcula likewise absent (fig. 11); cerci broad at base, thence 

 expanding evenly to the truncate distal margin, dorsal margin weakly 

 arcuate to the scarcely evident disto-dorsal angle, ventral margin 

 straight to the sharply rounded subrectangulate disto-ventral angle, 

 the cereal shafts regularly flexed so that the disto-dorsal portion of 

 the cerci is horizontal (though its surface is swollen and uneven), 

 and the margins of the same when in normal position overlap in this 

 plane dorsad of the distal portion of the supra-anal plate (pi. XIII, fig. 

 12) ; disto-ventral abdominal segment with caudal margin very weakly 

 produced mesad, subgenital plate roundly and rather broadly pro- 

 duced (length 2 mm.), with proximal lateral portions of plate and 

 adjacent portion of preceding segment subcompressed, extending 

 beyond the apex of the supra-anal plate one-half the length of the 

 same (fig. 13). The soft integument between the supra-anal and 

 subgenital plates is almost wholly covered by the distal portions of 

 the cerci and does not rise above the dorsal margin of the subgenital 



plate. 



Measurements {in millimeters) of type. 



Length of body 17.5 Greatest width of tegmen 2.4 



Length of pronotum 3.9 Length of caudal femur 11.1 



Length of tegmen 3.1 Greatest width of caudal femur .. 3.1 



The specimen is larger than the type of scapularis, but not as much 

 so as the bod}' length would lead one to believe, the uncurved 



52 From ariyu, to cover closely, and Kep/coc; cercus. In allusion to the remark- 

 able cerci, which cover closely the caudal portion of the supra-anal plate. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



abdominal extremity adding to the length measurement of the present 

 insect. 



In coloration the specimen closely resembles the more brilliantly 

 colored males of rotundipennis and has the caudal femora heavily 

 twice banded with fuscous. The general coloration is orange cinna- 

 mon with dorsal surfaces of head and pronotum walnut brown. 

 The sides of the abdomen are marked with fuscous as in the males 

 of all the species of the present group. 



The type is unique. 



Melanoplus mirus 83 new species. PI. XII, fig. 13; pi. XIII, figs. 14, 15, 16. 



The present insect is a development of the M. puer type, showing a 

 very striking specialization of the male subgenital plate, which is 

 even more produced and compressed than in M. strumosus. Males 

 of the present species have, however, a very simple supra-anal plate, 

 much as in M . puer, while the pronotum, noticeably broader caudad 

 than cephalad, shows further affinity to that species and also to 

 M. rotundipennis. The entire absence of furcula is, however, found 

 elsewhere in the group only in M . stegocercus and M . scapidaris. 



Type: d 71 ; Weldon, Halifax County, North Carolina. July 24, 

 1913. (Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 110.] 



Description of Type. — Size and form similar to moderately large 

 south Florida males of M . puer. Limbs, absence of furcula and 

 character of supra-anal plate all agreeing with M. scapidaris. Teg- 

 mina much as in M . rotundipennis. , 84 Extremity of abdomen tumid, 

 greatly produced and upcurved; supra-anal plate simple as in 

 scapularis, but with lateral margins very weakly convex and con- 

 verging evenly caudad (fig. 14), furcula absent; cerci moderately 

 broad at base, narrowing sharply to half this width mesad, thence 

 after a sharp inward flexion of the shaft expanding distad to a width 

 as great as the base, from which point narrowing, again with an even 

 curvature, to the sharp disto-ventral apex, all of the narrowing and 

 widening is due to the curvature of the dorsal margin, the ventral 

 margin is almost straight, 85 the apices of the two cerci are attingent 

 just beyond the distal extremity of the supra-anal plate (fig. 15); 

 disto-ventral abdominal segment produced mesad in a very small 

 sharp point, subgenital plate greatly produced, compressed, stela- 



83 In allusion to the remarkable genitalia of the male sex. 



84 The size, shape and degree of separation of the tegmina vary considerably 

 in the present series. 



85 In consequence the outline of the distal enlargement of the cerci bears a 

 close resemblance to the outline of a duck's head. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



form conical, with apex sharply rounded (length 2.6 mm.) (fig. 16). 

 Allotype: 9; Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 

 Description of Allotype.- — Closely resembling in size and form 

 moderately large south Florida females of M. puer, but with principal 

 sulcus somewhat more decided on dorsum of pronotum; color 

 pattern and tegmina (though extremely variable) much as in M. 

 rotundipennis. When compared with this latter species the insect 

 is found to be smaller and much more compact with shorter and 

 more robust limbs. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



cfcf 9 9 



Type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratopes. 



Length of body 16.2 15.5 15.8 18.8 20 19.5 



Length of pronotum 3.6 3.7 3.8 4.2 4.1 4.7 



Length of tegmen 3.7 3 3.4 4.3 3.7 3.9 



Greatest width of same 2.3 2.2 2.4 2.9 2.8 2.9 



Length of caudal femur 9.7 9.4 9.8 10.8 10.6 11.2 



Greatest width of same 2.7 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.8 2.7 



The specimens have the caudal margin of the dorsum of the 

 pronotum extremely weakly emarginate mesad, so weak indeed as 

 to be scarcely appreciable to the naked eye except in one female. 

 This character is often found in species of the present group, but 

 nowhere as decided as in M. puer. 



A more or less noticeable truncation of the tegminal apex is present 

 in all of the material before us, with the exception of a single paratypic 

 male. 



In coloration the species generally resembles M. rotundipennis, 

 except that the males differ decidedly in having the ventral margins 

 of the caudal femora sharply pale and quite striking, this marking 

 broader proximad. The females are similarly marked, but to a much 

 less and usually inconspicuous degree. 



The species was found very scarce in scattered woods of low pines 

 and oaks, with a typical ammophytic undergrowth of huckleberry 

 and other low bushes and plants. The species was recognized as new 

 and several hours were spent in minute search before the six examples 

 were taken, all of these being found in an area not one hundred feet in 

 diameter. The insects were wary, but were found to hide constantly, 

 so that by careful approach and guarding with the net the majority 

 were picked up with ease. The species does not jump vigorously. 



Specimens Examined. — 6; 3 males and 3 females. 



Weldon, North Carolina, VII, 24, 1913, (H.), 3 c? , 3 9 , type, allotype 

 and paratypes. 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Melanoplus scapularis 86 new species. PI. XII, fig. 14; pi. XIII, figs. 17, 18. 



Closely related to M. rotundipennis, but differing very greatly in 

 the male genitalia. Females of the two species are very similar, but 

 those of the present insect are separable by the more nearly attingent 

 tegmina, which are also more ample and more nearly rotundate. 



Type: c? ; Jesup, Wayne County, Georgia. September 1, 1911. 

 (Rehn & Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 111.] 



Description of Type. — Size and form similar to M . rotundipennis, 

 but somewhat more compact; cephalic and median femora less 

 swollen, the caudal femora slightly shorter and a little deeper in 

 proportion to their length. Tegmina abbreviate, rotundate, but 

 very little longer than broad, attingent. The tegminal length much 

 more nearly approximates the breadth of the same than in rotundi- 

 pennis. Extremity of abdomen tumid, strongly upcurved; supra- 

 anal plate decidedly longer than in rotundipennis, but otherwise 

 similar (fig. 17), furcula absent; cerci broad at base, distal portion 

 broadly expanding into a lamellate plate resembling a scapula, 

 greatest width at distal extremity hardly greater than length of 

 cercus, dorso-distal angle rotundato-rectangulate, disto-ventral angle 

 acute angulate, distal margin obtusely emarginate (fig. 18). The soft 

 integument between the supra-anal and subgenital plates does not 

 rise above the dorsal margin of the latter plate in the present insect. 87 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as the type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Very similar to females of M. rotundipen- 

 nis, but may be separated by the tegminal characters given above. 

 (All of the females before us have the tegmina either attingent or 

 separated by the scantiest interspace, the extreme separation being- 

 shown by a female from Isle of Hope in which the least width 

 between the tegmina is .3 mm.) In structure scapularis is a little 

 more compact with shorter and heavier caudal femora. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



■ ? 9 9 



Type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 15 16-16.7 22.2 19.7-21 



Length of pronotum 3.9 3.8-3.9 5.1 4.8-4.9 



Length of tegmen 3 3-3.2 4.2 3.8-3.9 



Greatest width of same 2.4 2.2-2.6 3.1 2.9-3.1 



Length of caudal femur 10 9.7-10.2 12.5 11.6-11.9 



Greatest width of same 2.9 2.7-2.9 3.7 3-3.2 



86 In allusion to the scapuliform cerci. 



87 In M. rotundipennis this integument is produced upward in an acute pro- 

 tuberance, which rises conspicuously above the distal margin of the subgenital 

 plate. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



The other specimens of the species before us agree fully with the 

 above measurements. 



In coloration the present species closely resembles rotundipennis, 

 but the series before us is all rather dark and, in all but two females 

 from Isle of Hope, the dorsal portion of the lateral lobes of the prono- 

 tum including the metazona is blackish. 



The present species was found in a restricted area of a sandy tract 

 covered with various low bushy plants, such as Myrica pumila,Quercus 

 minima, gall-berry bushes and saw palmettoes (Jesup), and in scant 

 undergrowth of the slightly more elevated portions of the flat almost 

 swampy gray-bark pine woods (Sandfly, Isle of Hope). The species 

 was very scarce, long-continued and thorough search being made for 

 it at each locality where it was found. 



Specimens Examined. — 15; 5 males, 8 females and 2 immature 

 specimens. 



Sandfly, Chatham County, Georgia, IX, 3, 1911, (H.), 1 &, 1 9 , 

 (in coitu.) 



Isle of Hope, Chatham County, Ga., IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 49 , 

 1 juv. cf. 



Jesup, Wayne County, Ga., IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 d\ 39, 

 1 juv. 9 , type, allotype and paratypes. 



Melanoplus strumosus Morse. PL XIII, figs. 19, 20, 21. 



North Carolina. Georgia. 



Favetteville, IX, 6, 1911, (H.), 1$. Tallulah Falls, VIII, 5, 1909, (J. C. 



Ivanhoe, VII, 1907, (L. M. Smith), Bradley), 19. 



19, [U. S. N. M.l. Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



South Carolina. ■ ''' r, ', T "rr - . w in,, \-tt 



_ TT Spring Creek, VI, *-23, 1911, ^ II, 



Florence, IX, b, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9 . 26-28, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 9 . 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (H.), 1 a\ 1 9 . y 



This insect, which may be said to be the most aberrant of the Puer 

 Group, differs from all other species in this group in the shape of the 

 male supra-anal plate and furcula, which have been well figured and 

 described by Morse. 88 



A certain similarity to M. stegocercus in the form of the male sub- 

 genital plate is apparent, but in the present insect this plate distad 

 narrows considerably more and is also deflected dorsad, which gives 

 the apex of the abdomen a very different appearance (fig. 21). The 

 cerci suggest in contour those of M. minis, but are decidedly smaller, 

 less flexed and more simple in outline (fig. 20). It is interesting to 

 note that while stegocercus, minis and strumosus show a common an- 



88 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. No. 18, pp. 51-53, figs. 12, 13, (1904). 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



cestry, and all have a peculiar and very decided development of the 

 subgenital plate, stegocercus is particularly remarkable in cereal char- 

 acters, mirus in the greatest specialization of the subgenital plate 

 combined with very peculiar cerci, while strumosus has quite similar 

 cerci to mirus, though these are much smaller, but is very different 

 from all other members of the present group in the characters of the 

 supra-anal plate and furcula (fig. 19). 



The females of the present species would be almost indistinguishable 

 from females of M . rotundipennis, were it not for the fact that in the 

 latter species the cephalic width of the dorsum of the pronotum is less 

 than the caudal width of the same to a degree not found in the 

 present insect. 



The variation in size of the present species does not appear to be 

 geographically correlated in any way. The five Currahee Mountain 

 males range in length from 16 to 17 mm., while the largest females 

 are from Tallulah Falls and Spring Creek, 23.5 and 26.2 mm., respect- 

 ively. The smallest female before us is also from Spring Creek, in 

 length 20.1 mm. Though usually wide, the interspace between 

 the tegmina is decidedly variable in the present species. 



In coloration the majority of the series before us have the caudal 

 femora showing scarcely any traces of fuscous bars, one female from 

 Florence, however, has these bars weakly indicated, while the 

 Yemassee female and the two Spring Creek individuals of the same 

 sex have these bars heavy and very pronounced. 



The species was found very scarce on the ground among oak 

 sprouts (Fayetteville, Florence), in underbrush on higher ground, 

 just above where the short-leaf pines disappeared, and in oak sprouts 

 in long-leaf pine woods (Yemassee), while on Currahee Mountain 

 it was found very local on the mountain summit in the luxuriant 

 mountain undergrowth of grasses, vines and oak sprouts (particularly 

 about the latter), in a forest predominantly black-jack oak. 



The Mancus Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



Of the five species originally included in his "Mancus Series" by 

 Scudder, one only properly belongs to it, this being mancus. Scudderi 

 belongs to a group of which it is the best known representative, while 

 the other three species should be distributed over three other groups 

 which show natural relationships. With mancus, however, should be 

 associated M. islandicus Blatchley and celatus, sylvestris and divergens 

 Morse, the proper sequence apparently being divergens, mancus, 

 islandicus, celatus and sylvestris. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



229 



Melanoplus sylvestris Morse. 



North < '(irol i mi. 



Black Mountain, VII, 1912, (\V. 

 Beutenmuller), 2 9 , [Davis Cln.]. 



Georgia. 

 Clayton, 2, 000-3,700 feet, VI, 1909, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 cf. 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 9. 



Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, VII, 



1910, (W. T. Davis), 19. 

 Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, VIII, 



20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 9 . 

 Rabun Paid, Rabun County, 4,000- 



4,800 feet, VIII, 21, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



This form is clearly an offshoot of M. islandicus as stated by Morse, 

 probably being but a geographic race. The male here listed shows 

 an even greater elongation of the cercus than seen in the figure given 

 by Morse, but this is not surprising, the types being from central 

 western North Carolina. The Georgia material from a more extreme 

 geographic point could be expected to show a greater development 

 of the features which differentiate the form. 



The species is only known from the localities given above, and 

 Blowing Rock, Linville, Lovering's and Pineola, North Carolina 

 (Morse). 89 



The Scudderi Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



We have placed M. carnegiei and scudderi in a group which is easily 

 distinguished from the "Mancus Series" in which scudderi was 

 previously placed. 



Melanoplus carnegiei Morse. 



South Carolina. 



Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.), 1 cf , 



5 juv. cf , 10 juv. 9 . 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



IS d\ 14 9, 2 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 

 Pinnacle Peak, Rabun Countv, VIII, 



20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 4 cf. 

 Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 25 cf, 



3 juv. cA 10 juv. 9. 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.), 22 <?, 12 9 , 5 juv. cf , 2 juv. 9 . 



Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 2 cf , 



4 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 . 



Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 



8 cf, 6 9, 3 juv. 9. 

 Silver Lake, Fulton County, VIII, 10, 



1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 <j\ 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 c?, 5 juv. cf , 5 juv. 9 . 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 5 juv. cf , 4 juv. 9 . 

 Warm Springs, 850-1,200 feet, VIII, 



9-10, 1913, (R.), 7 cf , 19, 2 juv. 



cf, 5 juv. 9 • 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf , 11 juv. cf , 15 juv. 9 • 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf, 5 juv. cf , 5 juv. 9 • 



Available data show that carnegiei has a fairly extended range 

 through diverse conditions in the southeastern States, this extending 

 from Sulphur Springs, North Carolina, Pinnacle Peak and Blue Ridge, 



83 The record of this species from Thomasville and Metcalfe, Georgia, made' 

 by the authors (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 791, (1905)), is erroneous, 

 that reference instead relating to M. rotundipennis, a species then unknown 

 to them. 



16 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Georgia, south and east as far as Warm Springs and Macon, Georgia, 

 and Yemassee, South Carolina. The material shows a great amount 

 of individual variation in size, both sexes exhibiting this in material 

 from the same locality, collected in the same environment. Certain 

 individuals, particularly of the female sex, show a general lightening 

 of the entire coloration, while very rarely (one adult and certain 

 nymphs) the pronotum is washed with pinkish. The adult male 

 from Augusta is very pale and quite ochraceous, with the dorsal 

 femoral markings very decided, solid and regular. These markings 

 vary appreciably in individuals of relatively the same color depth. 

 There is some variation in both sexes in the form of the tegmina, the 

 distal section being more rounded and less subangulate in certain 

 specimens than in others. 



From the available evidence we find that the species occurs adult 

 as early as July 25 (Blue Ridge, Georgia; Morse) and as late as 

 October 7 (Sulphur Springs, North Carolina; Rehn & Hebard), few 

 adults having appeared as late as August 4 (Toccoa). 



This form is always sylvan in habitat, occurring on the ground 

 under oaks and in mixed oak and pine woods. On one occasion it was 

 found about low scrub oak scattered over a sandy area (Augusta). 



Melanoplus scudderi scudderi (Uhler). 



Virginia. Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. A 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), H.), 1 cf , 1 9 , 1 juv. 9 . 



1 juv. cf. South Carolina. 

 Lynchburg, VII, 22 1913, (R. & H.), Columbia, V II, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. cf, 2 juv. 9. o : \ q :'„ ' Q 



Natural Bridge IX, 12 and 13, 1907, p^nle, IX, 6 1911,(R. & H.), 8 cf , 



(a. Long), IV. ^ o fi ;,iv Q 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.). 6 v ' D JUV - v ' 



2 juv. cf . Georgia. 



Thompson's Mills, X, 1910, (H. A. 



North Carolina. Allard), [U. S. N. M.]. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), Austell, VIII, 27, 1911, 2 cf , [Ga. 



2 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 . State Cln.]. 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf. 6 juv. cf, 5 juv. 9. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), Bainbridge, IX, 7-X, 19, 1910, (J. C. 



17 cf , 4 9 , 1 juv. cf , 5 juv. 9 . Bradley), 1 9 . 



From a study of the material before us from the eastern and 

 southeastern States, it is evident that southwards both sexes show a 

 gradual broadening of the tegmina and rounding of the distal margin 

 of the same. This feature is similar to that found in the Texan 

 form, scudderi texensis Hart, of which we have typical material, but 

 that race also has the general form more compressed in both sexes, 

 the furcula longer, the subgenital plate less produced and some feat- 

 ures of the coloration different. The relationship of the material 




1«>16.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



seen from all of Georgia (Austell south to Thomasville) and from 

 the Carolinas is clearly with Middle States and New England s. 

 scudderi, although showing a parallelism to one of the feature's of 

 s. texensis, but representative of the typical form in all the other 

 characters. 



Individual size variation in this species is considerable, but there 

 is also an average southward increase in the general bulk. 



The earliest date we are acquainted with on which adults have 

 been taken in the southeastern States is August 24 (Chattanooga, 

 Tenn.; Morse), while we have secured material as late as December 

 14 (Thomasville, Ga.; Hebard). 



The species was taken in sylvan surroundings, the undergrowth of 

 pine and oak woods being its favorite situation. 



The Fasciatus Group of the Genus Melanoplus. 



A tentative study of the species which have been referred to this 

 division shows that a recasting of the whole aggregation is necessary, 

 but our collated information is not sufficiently extensive to say more 

 than that fasciatus, querneus, franciscanus, nigrescens and walshii 

 are certainly, and inconspicuus probably, members of this assemblage. 

 We can state definitely that attenuatus, borealis, cockerelli, obovati- 

 pennis, rotundipennis, morsei and tepidus are not to be included in 

 the same category. Of these attenuatus is a member of the Decorus 

 Group, obovatipennis, morsei and tepidus are members of the Tribulus 

 Group and rotundipennis belongs to the Puer Group, while amplectens 

 is a synonym of ivalshii and juvencus equals viridipes, a member of 

 the Gracilis Group. Scudder's saltator belongs to another category, 

 including ascensus and other species. 



The species of this group apparently form a transition to the 

 constantly long-winged forms of the genus, the relationship being 

 chiefly, however, with the short-winged forms. The sequence of 

 species known to belong to this division appears' to us to be as given 

 above. 



Melanoplus querneus new species. PI. XIV, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



1905. Melanoplus nigrescens Rehn and Hebard (not of Scudder), Proc. 

 Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 791. [Thomasville,' Georgia.] 



A member of the fasciatus group and more nearly related to .1/. 

 walshii and nigrescens than to any of the other members of the genus. 

 In general structure and coloration the new species is practically 

 identical with the two older forms, but it differs from both in the 

 slightly longer tegmina in both sexes, the broader sublamellate male 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



cerci, which are subconstricted mesad, and in the rounded and 

 hardly produced apical margin of the subgenital plate of the same 

 sex. The females of the three species are very similar, but the 

 constantly longer tegmina and slightly less bicolored character of 

 the same in querneus enable one to distinguish it. 



Type: cf ; Thomasville, Thomas County, Georgia. November 30, 

 1903. (Morgan Hebard.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 116.] 



Description of Type. — Size large; form moderately robust. Head 

 as in nigrescens except for the frontal costa failing to reach the 

 clypeal suture ; antennae very long, slightly longer than the pronotum 

 and tegmina together. Pronotum as in nigrescens. Tegmina almost 

 or quite reaching the region of the furcula when the abdomen is in 

 the usual somewhat recurved position, appreciably longer than in 

 nigrescens, considerably exceeding the combined length of the head 

 and pronotum, subacuminate, the apices narrowly rounded; sutural 

 margins moderately arcuate. Prosternal spine similar to that of 

 nigrescens; interspace between the mesosternal lobes slightly broader 

 and less decidedly longitudinal than in nigrescens; interspace between 

 the metasternal lobes subattingent, but not contiguous as in nigres- 

 cens. Abdomen subcompressed proximad, with a fairly distinct and 

 moderately elevated medio-longitudinal carina; furcula merely 

 the briefest of points projecting from the disto-dorsal abdominal 

 segment, poorly indicated on the surface of the segment as broad, 

 rounded areas, between which the segment is emarginate ; supra-anal 

 plate as in nigrescens, but the proximal medio-longitudinal sulcus 

 and its marginal carinas are more decided and the median transverse 

 carina is more strongly indicated (fig. 3); cerci broad, sublamellate, 

 the greatest distal width hardly more than half the length, broad 

 at base, somewhat narrowing to the middle, the whole dorsal margin 

 arcuato-emarginate, the disto-dorsal angle rotundato-rectangulate, 

 distal margin arcuato-truncate and gently rounding into an obliquely 

 truncate disto-ventral section, which latter passes by a very slight 

 angle into the ventral margin, distal section with surface faintly 

 tumid and separated from distal margin by an arcuate impression 

 (fig. 1); subgenital plate distinctly broader than long, the apical 

 margin semi-elliptical in shape when seen from the dorsum, when 

 seen from the side moderately emarginate with a faintly produced 

 extremity (fig. 2) . Cephalic and median limbs slightly more elongate 

 than in nigrescens. Caudal femora similar to those of nigrescens, 

 but dorsal outline more concave distad; caudal tibiae with external 

 spines ten to eleven in number. 




191(i.l NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as type but taken December 3, 1903. 

 [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Differing only from the same sex of 

 nigrescens in the average larger size, actually as well as proportion- 

 ately, longer antennae, longer tegmina and more robust and less 

 attenuate ventral valves of the ovipositor. The tegmina are dis- 

 tinctly longer than the head and pronotum together. The ventral 

 jaws of the ovipositor are well decurved at the apex and have the 

 proximal tooth strongly indicated, these being more slender, straighter 

 and with a weaker tooth in nigrescens, while in walshii the valves, 

 though nearly as straight as in nigrescens, are heavier and nearer in 

 form to those of querneus. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Thomasville, Ga. Length of 



Length Length of Length of caudal 



of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



■ XI, 30, 1903. Type 22.5 6.2 10 15.8 



<? XI, 12, 1902. Paratvpe 27.1 6.5 11.7 • 16.7 



9X11,3,1903. Allotype 32.2 6.7 11.6 17.3 



9 XII, 10, 1903. Paratype....32.8 7.9 12.5 18.3 



In size there is some little variation, particularly in the male sex, 

 the type and allotype being about the minimum for each sex, the 

 maximums being measured above. The males show practically no 

 individual variation at all in the form of the appendages, there being 

 but a scarcely perceptible amount in the relative depth of the cercus, 

 while the females show no noteworthy structural variation. 



Color Xotes. — Detailed color descriptions made from life have 

 already been published for this species (see above). In consequence 

 we will only comment on the differences noted from those descrip- 

 tions. The general coloration is diluted or brightened in certain 

 individuals, the pale tones becoming cinnamon buff on the dorsum 

 of the head, pronotum, anal field of tegmina, pleural streak and 

 caudal femora, while rarely the deepening of the coloration has 

 resulted in a general benzo brown to fuscous tone, with the dark 

 markings fuscous black to shining black. The caudal tibiae occa- 

 sionally show no trace of maroon or poppy red, but are largely dull 

 honey yellow with the usual proximal suffusion. The less bicolored 

 condition of the tegmina in this species, when compared with walshii 

 and nigrescens, is due to the more pronounced breaking up into small 

 maculations of the blackish fuscous of the discoidal and marginal 

 fields, while in nigrescens and walshii these areas are more uniformly 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



colored and consequently more contrasted with the almost invariably 

 paler anal area. We have but one specimen of querneus, a male, 

 which shows little or no contrast between the two sections of the 

 tegmina, this being the very dark individual mentioned above. 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us a series of 

 ten males and thirteen females, taken at Thomasville on dates 

 extending from November 30 to December 13, 1902-1903, all of 

 which may be considered paratypic. 



Before we were able to examine specimens of undoubted nigrescens 

 we referred to this species by that name, but now with Scudder's 

 species in hand it is quite evident that the two are distinct. 



This species was found frequenting the vicinity of scrub oaks in 

 the pine and oak woods. Extensive notes on the habits of the 

 species have been previously published {vide supra). 



Melanoplus nigrescens (Seudder). 



Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina, IX, St. Simon's Island, Georgia, VIII, 30. 

 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf. 1911, (R. & H.), 4 & , 11 9 . 



The above records, with those of Seudder from " Georgia ' ' and Smith- 

 yille. North Carolina, form all the information we have on the range of 

 this species, as the record of nigrescens from Thomasville, Georgia, made 

 by the authors 90 we now find to have been based on the allied but 

 distinct new species, M. querneus, which is described above. We 

 find on comparison that nigrescens is closely related to walshii, 

 differing chiefly in details of the dorsum of the pronotum, in the 

 peculiar offset or twist of the distal section of the male cercus and 

 in the more pronounced apex of the subgenital plate of the same 

 sex. The females are almost indistinguishable, the more delicate 

 median carina of the pronotum, the straighter ovipositor jaws 

 (particularly ventral) and the more subequal and less distinctly 

 tapering prosternal spine being about all the really tangible characters 

 in nigrescens to separate that sex from walshii. In coloration the two 

 species are almost identical, each varying to about the same degree 

 individually, although on the whole nigrescens has the dorsal aspect 

 generally paler. There can be no question but that both species are 

 members of the same species group. 



The size shows but little variation in the series and this is slightly 

 more pronounced in the female than in the male sex. 



From the records the species seems to be restricted to the lower 

 portion of the Coastal Plain within theSabalian or Basic Austral Zone. 



90 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1904, p. 791, (1905). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



The Lake Waccamaw .specimen was taken in heavy undergrowth 

 of bushes in short-leaf pine woods, while on St. Simon's Island the 

 species occurred in very few numbers among dead leaves under 

 live oaks. In the latter situations there was practically no ground 

 vegetation owing to the constant shade of the oak groves. A par- 

 ticular search was made for the species elsewhere as well as on St. 

 Simon's Island and all seen were secured. The date for the Smith- 

 ville record given by Scudder is November 22, so the species is seen 

 to be present, where found, from late August to the latter part of 

 November. 



Melanoplus walihii Scudder. 



1897. Melanoplus walshii Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 235, 

 pi. XV. fig. 10. 



1897. Melanoplus amplectens Scudder, ibid., p. 260, pi. XVII, fig. 7. 

 1897. Melanoplus blatchleyi Scudder, ibid., p. 322, pi. XXI, fig. 10. 



North Carolina. Currahee Mountain, 1,700 feet, VIII, 



Black Mountain, VII and VIII, 1912, 5, 1913, (H.), 9 cf , 4 9 . 



(\Y.Beutenmuller),4cf\ 11 9, [Davis Sharp Mountain, 1,800-2,000 feet, 



Cln] VIII. 6, 1913, (R.), 3 rf", 3 9. 



Georgia. Dalton, 850-1,200 feet, VIII, 7, 1913, 



Rabun Bald, Rabun County. ' VII, (R-), 1 9 . 



1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 cf, 19. 



The above synonymy is evident after examining all the typical 

 material involved, 91 the individual and to an extent geographic varia- 

 tion found in the species probably being responsible for Scudder's 

 confusion. The general size, form of the cerci, furcula, supra-anal 

 and subgenital plates, caudal femora and tegmina, as well as certain 

 features of the coloration, are found to be variable in the series of 

 eighty-one specimens from seventeen localities before us. The 

 largest specimens are from the Missouri valley region, but the 

 variation in this respect at any locality represented by a series is 

 seen to be very considerable. It is quite possible that the acquisition 

 of more material from the Mississippi and Missouri valleys will 

 show the desirability of recognizing two races of this species, one a 

 western one to which the name blatchleyi (proposed to replace Bruner's 

 preoccupied Pezotettix occidentalis, described from Omaha, Nebraska) 

 should be limited, and the other to which typical walshii, with 

 amplectens as a synonym, would be applied. There can be no 

 question but that these forms, if recognizable, are but races of one 

 species, for which the name walshii must be used. At present we 



91 Morse has already placed blatchleyi in the svnonvmv under amplectens. 

 Carnegie Inst. Wash., Publ. Xo. 18, p. 50, (1904). 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



lack sufficient material to enable us to test out satisfactorily the 

 geographic value of characters suggested by our series. 



We have before us the typical material on which Bruner's occi- 

 dentalis, the basis of blatchleyi, was founded and have examined all 

 the types of both walshii and amplectens, hence the above synonymy 

 has been established by reference to the basic material. 



That Scudder was in great difficulty with this variable species is 

 evidenced by his treatment of the synonymic names. The first , 

 walshii, he placed in his rusticus series, the second, amplectens, in 

 his fasciatus series and the third, blatchleyi, in his texanus series. 

 In our opinion the species clearly belongs to the Fasciatus Group; 

 that is, it should be placed in the general vicinity of fasciatus, for 

 while the genitalia are different in some respects, a number of other 

 features are very similar. 



The extremes in size in the present series are as follows: 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



cf Rabun Bald, Ga 19.1mm. 5 mm. 6.2 mm. 11.5 mm. 



c? Currahee Mtn., Ga 25.2 " 5.7 *" 7.2 " 14.2 " 



9 Rabun Bald, Ga 25.2 " 5.7 " 8 " 13.9 " 



9 Currahee Mtn., Ga 29.8 " 6.5 " 8.2 " 15.9 " 



The Currahee Mountain and Sharp Mountain series show con- 

 siderable individual variation in size, the minimum of the female 

 sex from Currahee Mountain being hardly larger than the minimum 

 measured above, while the Sharp Mountain lot shows even greater 

 variation in the male than is found in the same sex in the Currahee 

 Mountain representation. There is very little variation in color, 

 the most apparent being the degree of infuscation of the anal area of 

 the tegmina, the presence or absence of the pale spot proximo-dorsad 

 on the external pagina of the caudal femora and the absence or 

 presence, depth and extent of a dark pregenicular annulus on the 

 caudal tibiae. 



All of the specimens taken by us were secured in the normal 

 sylvan habitat of the species; on Currahee Mountain on the 

 upper slopes of the mountain, among the heavy undergrowth of 

 vines, oak sprouts and grasses in a forest composed chiefly of black- 

 jack oak, being only occasional on the slopes and fairly abundant 

 on the summit; on Sharp Mountain under similar conditions in 

 a forest of coniferous and deciduous trees and all seen were taken, 

 while at Dalton one was secured on a steep slope under deciduous 

 trees. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



237 



Long-winged Species of the genus Melanoplus 



Melanoplus atlanis (Riley). 

 Maryland. 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 1 d\ 



Virginia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 1 cA 4 9. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 <?, 



49. 

 Natural Bridge, IX, 12-13, 1907, 



(B. Long), 1 \ [A. X.S. P.]. 

 Lvnchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



29. 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



29. 



North Carolina. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 <?. 

 WVldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf , 1 9 . 

 Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf . 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (It. & 

 H.),29. 



South Carolina. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf. 

 Sumter, V, 30, 191 1, (\V. Stone), 1 v, 



[A. N. S. P.]. 

 Maiming, V, 23 to 30, 1914, (W. Stone), 



5 d", 49, 1 juv. 9, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Georgia. 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 2 d\ 5 9. 

 Clayton, 2,000-3,700 feet, VI, 1909, 



(W. T. Davis), 3 tf 1 . 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 cf . 



The present species is relatively infrequent in the Coastal Plain 

 south of North Carolina and the lower Gulf drainage of southern 

 Georgia, in addition having never been definitely recorded from 

 peninsular Florida. That from Thomasville (Rehn & Hebard) is 

 the only known south Georgia record and Marianna (Morse) is the 

 only definite Florida locality. 



The present representation shows considerable individual variation 

 in general size and in tegminal length, while the coloration shows 

 the usual variability of this plastic species. One of the Rabun 

 County males has the caudal tibiae pale glaucous clouded with 

 brownish proximad and distad. 



The above specimens secured by us were all taken in cultivated or 

 waste fields, being common nowhere except at Orange and Petersburg, 

 while generally very scarce. 



Melanoplus impudious Scudder. 

 South Carolina. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 19. 



Georgia. 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 

 (H.), 2 <?, 6 9 . 



Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 19. 

 Lost Mountain, Cobb County, VII, 



13, 1913, 1 d\ [Ga. State Cln.]. 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



29. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 19. 



The present material, when compared with a New Jersey series 

 before us, is found to have the tegmina and wings somewhat longer, 

 these slightly surpassing the tips of the caudal femora in the majority 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of southern specimens, while the coloration is more uniform and 

 much as in the least maculate of the New Jersey specimens. The 

 few specimens before us from Indiana agree perfectly with New 

 Jersey material, but are all of the less maculate type of coloration. 



Occasional small, dark and exceptionally compact females of 

 M . luridus, having abbreviate tegmina, might easily be confused with 

 examples of the same sex of the present species. Examination, 

 however, reveals the fact that the ovipositor jaws in that species are 

 longer, with their narrowed distal portions much longer and less 

 curved. Further examination shows that such examples of M. 

 luridus have larger, more protuberant and darker eyes, a less 

 trim pronotum, heavier limbs and other characters by which they 

 can be distinguished. Typical females of M. luridus are very 

 different, even in superficial appearance, from typical females of the 

 present species. 



The series here recorded was taken in a pine forest on a hillside 

 (Columbia), in a heavy tangle of pine and oak woods undergrowth 

 (Dalton, Warm Springs) and on Currahee Mountain very few were 

 found at the summit (1,700 feet) in the heavy mountain undergrowth 

 of a low forest predominantly black-jack oaks, while in the under- 

 growth of the pine woods at the upper limit of the gradual slopes 

 (1,300 feet) other specimens were taken. 



This insect is known to be an Austral species of localized dis- 

 tribution. It has been recorded from Jamesburg, southward at other 

 localities in the pine barrens of New Jersey; Murphy, North Caro- 

 lina; Denmark and Spartanburg, South Carolina; Blue Ridge, 

 Chickamauga and Sand Mountain, Georgia, and Monticello, Missis- 

 sippi. Further west it is known from numerous counties in north- 

 western Arkansas, and in the upper Mississippi valley region from 

 Gibson County, Indiana, and Havana and Ozark Ridge, Illinois. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur-rubrum (De Geer). 



Virginia. Georgia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



H.), 1 tf. Davis), 1 <?. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), Clayton, VII, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 9 . 



young. Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (R. & 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), H.), 3^,29,4 juv. a*. 



1 cf. Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (R. & H.), 1 juv. d", 3 juv. 9. 



Immature specimens of the species were found in great numbers 

 at all of the localities in Virginia listed above. The insect is very . 

 abundant everywhere in the upland grass-lands of Virginia, but south 

 of this region it is much less numerous and less generally distributed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



At Stone Mountain, Georgia, adults were occasional and the young 

 fairly abundant in the frequent areas of bunch-grass on the mountain. 



Specimens from high elevations in Georgia are typical of the 

 species. Those from Stone Mountain and its vicinity show a slight 

 approach toward the southeastern race. 



The present form is found southward on the Atlantic coast as 

 far as southern Virginia, south of this its southeastern distribution 

 does not extend down from the Appalachians as far as the fall line. 

 Its range probably extends eastward along the Gulf Coast from 

 Texas as far as Alabama, for in that State, Morse secured intermediates 

 between it and the southeastern race at Flomaton. Material 

 previously recorded by us from Newbern, North Carolina, 92 is really 

 intermediate and shows a closer affinity to the southeastern race. 



Melanoplus femur-rubrum propinquus Scudder. 



North Carolina. Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



Wrightsvflle, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), (R- & H.) f 4 <?, 1 9 . 



2 tf Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 cf. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R, & H.), Billy's Island, VI, VII, 1912, (J. C. 



2 ?, 30. Bradley), 7 cf, 18 9. 



Lske Waccamaw, IX. 8, 1911, (R. & Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



II ) 1 cf 5 cf, 4 9. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 cf . 

 South Carolina. Bainbridge, IX-X, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), ley), 1 9 . 



2 cf, 4 9. Spring Creek, VII, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), ley), 1 9 . 



3 c?;i9. Florida. 



Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. &H.), Jacksonville, V, VIII, 1885, (W. H. 



1 cf . Ashmead), 3 cf , 2 9 , [Hebard Cm.]; 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. cfc H.), LX, XI, 1911-13, (W. T. Davis), 



■* ^1 3$ - 12 cf, 17 9. 



Georgia. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911. 



Augusta, VII, 29. 1913, (R. & H.), (R. & H.), 2 cf, 1 9. 



2cf,2 9. St. Augustine, XI, 8, 1911, (G. P. 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (R. & H.), Englehardt), 1 9 , [B. I.]. 



~2 cf, 2 9. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H). 



Jesup. IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf , 1 cf, 19. 



19; XII, 1908, (H.). 19. Xewberrv, XI, 19, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 1 cf. 3 cf . 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, Tampa, I, 17, 1904, (H.), 1 9 . 



(R. & H.),3 cf. 



We find the specimens from Wright sville and Winter Park to be 

 intermediate between the present geographic race and M. femur- 

 rubrum. We have typical examples of the present insect from as 

 far north as Lake Waccamaw. Scudder includes specimens from 

 Pungo Bluff, North Carolina, in his typical material of the present 

 insect, but these specimens are intermediates. Differences in the male 



92 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 635, (1911). 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



genitalia, somewhat analogous to those found in A pteno pedes s. sphen- 

 arioides and A. s. clara, alone separate the present races. 



The coloration of the caudal tibiae of the present race normally 

 varies from carrot red to flesh color, three specimens in the series 

 before us have the reddish hue nearly obsolete (maize yellow, very 

 faintly suffused with pink dorsad), while a single unusually pale 

 specimen, taken in a weedy field near the strand on Cumberland 

 Island, has the caudal femora pale glaucous (light turtle green), 

 shading to pale chalcedony yellow on the proximal and distal por- 

 tions of the ventral surface. 



The insect has very similar habits to typical jemur-rubrum, being 

 found particularly in grassy and weedy spots in the open. This 

 geographic race is distributed over the southern coastal plain from 

 extreme southern North Carolina, through South Carolina and 

 Georgia, as far west as Flomaton, Alabama, and over entire peninsular 

 Florida, though scarce south of the central portion. 



Melanoplus impiger Scudder. 



Augusta, Georgia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 10 tf , 7 9 , 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



This is the first record of the species from east of Texas. The 



specimens here listed have been compared with the type and cotypes 



in the Hebard Collection ex Bruner and found to be identical. In 



size there is considerable individual variation, particularly in the male. 



the extremes from Augusta measuring (in millimeters) as follows: 



Length of 

 Length of Length of Length of caudal 



body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



c? 21.5 5.1 20.2 13.6 



'd> 28.3 6.2 22.2 15.8 



9 24.2 5.3 20.8 14.5 



9 26.8 6.1 22.7 16.5 



In coloration the Georgia individuals are less contrastingly colored 

 than Texan specimens, the pale colors being duller ochraceous and 

 the tegmina more fuscous, while the external paginse of the caudal 

 femora generally have the usual bars more or less fused into a blackish 

 fuscous area covering the dorsal section of the pagina. The color of 

 the caudal tibise ranges as dark as dark orient blue in the glaucous 

 condition and as decidedly red as nopal red in the other type. 



The species was found in moderate numbers in a sandy area 

 scatteringly covered with scrub oak. 



Melanoplus oonfusus Scudder. 



Melanoplus minor of authors. 



Fredericksburg, Virginia, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & H.), 5 a\ 2 9 . 

 Havelock, Craven Countv, North Carolina, late V, 1907, and VI, 19-24, 1905. 

 (F. Sherman), 4 d\ 2 9 , [N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



We find that Caloptenus minor of Scudder 93 {Melanoplus minor of 

 authors) is preoccupied by Caloptenus minor of Walker. 94 Seudder's 

 Melanoplus confusus, 95 described from Munson's Hill and New-port, 

 Kentucky, is, however, the same as his minor and the name 1 must be 

 used for the present species. Caudell, finding that Scudder's name 

 minor was preoccupied, but misquoting the original generic position 

 as Pezotettix, has recently proposed the name Melanoplus mutatus 96 

 for the present species; this name naturally falls in the synonymy 

 under Melanoplus confusus. 



The specimens from the latter locality listed above were kindly 

 loaned to us by Mr. Sherman, in response to our request to see 

 some of the material on which the record of this species from eastern 

 North Carolina was based. 97 These individuals are perfectly typical 

 of confusus, and Havelock is the most southern locality in the east 

 from which the species has been reported. 



At Fredericksburg the species was found in short grass on rather 

 barren hillsides bordering the valley of the Rappahannock on the south. 



Melanoplus luridus luridus (Dodge). 



Black Mountain, North Carolina, VIII, 7, 1912. (W. Beutenmuller), 1 <?, 



[Davis CSn.]. 

 Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, Georgia, VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 d\ 



3 9", 1 juv. a", 1 iuv. 9. 

 Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun County, Ga., VII, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 1 juv. 9 . 



The present insect is widely distributed over the northern United 

 States, extending in southward distribution along the Atlantic 

 coast at least as far as southern New Jersey. In the Appalachians, 

 however, the distribution of the insect is carried southward at con- 

 siderable altitudes to the most southern portion of these mountains, 

 as the material recorded above demonstrates. In size and robustness 

 the present individuals are much as in the average of material before 

 us from Connecticut. The junior author's record of M. deletor from 

 that State 98 applies wholly to the present insect, as do the senior 

 author's records of M. keeleri from New Jersey. 99 Both of these 



93 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 478, (1875). 

 ™Cat. Dermapt. Saltat. Br. Mas., IV, p. 699, (1870). 



nProc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 339, pi. XXII, fig. 10, (1898). We have 

 examined the male lectotype of confusus from Munson's Hill, Kentucky, and 

 find no valid character to separate it from minor of Scudder. The lectotype 

 and other material has shrivelled from immersion in alcohol and as a result, we 

 have differences in the form of the cerei due solely to distortion. 



96 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XLIX, p. 30, (1915). 



97 Sherman and Brimlev. Ent. News, XXII, p. 389, (1911). 

 ™En(. News, XXI, p. 184, (1910). 



J ' Rehn in Smith. Ins. of New Jersey, p. 1S4, (1910). 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



errors were due to the fact that in these portions of the range 

 of typical luridus, frequent females are met with which are larger 

 and decidedly heavier than specimens of the same sex from further 

 north. This must be attributed to variation in I. luridus, for the 

 southern race differs in all important respects from such material 

 quite as decidedly as it does from typical luridus. 



The great amount of variation in the present species is partially 

 shown by the following table of measurements of the extremes of 

 various series before us. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Caudal Length of 



Length width of Length of caudal 



cfcfi of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Aweme, Manitoba (2) 10 °1S-19. 1 2.5-2.8 16-16.4 10.8-11.1 



Pequaming, Michigan (1) 17 2.4 13.7 10 



Cape Cod, Massachusetts^) 17.4-18.3 2.5-2.6 12.4-13.1 10.2-10.5 



New Haven, Connecticut(S) 18.5-19.5 2.8-3.1 12.7-15.4 11.7-12 



Stafford's Forge, N. J (11)17-20 2.7-3 12.9-15 10.5-12 



Mount Pisgah, N. C (8) 18.5-18.8 2.7-2.8 13.8-14.6 10.7-11.6 



Pinnacle Peak, Ga (1) 19.2 3 14.9 12.3 



9 9 



Aweme, Manitoba (2) 20.2-21.7 3.2 16-16.3 11-11.7 



Pequaming, Mich (8) 19.6-20.3 3.1-3.4 15.9-17.8 10.8-11.6 



Cape Cod, Mass (2) 23.5-25 3.5-3.7 15.7-15.8 12.9-13.3 



New Haven, Conn (7) 23.7-27.4 3.5-4 15.2-17 13.2-15.3 



Stafford's Forge, N.J (8) 22.5-25.2 3.4-4 11-16 11.8-14 



Mount Pisgah, N. C (7) 22.4-24 3.4-4 13.4-16.9 12.5-13.2 



Pinnacle Peak, Ga (3) 24.8-25 3.4-3.8 16.7-18 14.3-15.3 



It would be difficult to imagine individuals, without even racial 

 significance, differing more greatly in general appearance than do 

 the long-winged slender examples from the northwestern portion of 

 this insect's range, from the heavy shorter-winged type which is often 

 found in Connecticut and New Jersey southward through the 

 Appalachians. This is particularly true of the female sex; north- 

 western material bearing a strong superficial resemblance to M. 

 atlanis, while the southeastern material is vastly heavier with a very 

 different general appearance. Intergradation between these types 

 is, however, almost everywhere to be found and no valid reason 

 exists for separating eastern and western material as geographic 

 races. 



Melanoplus luridus keeleri (Thomas). 



Virginia. North Carolina. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 1 juv. cf . 2 juv. <?, 3 juv. 9 . 



ioo The figures in parentheses indicate the number of specimens measured 

 from each locality. 




1916. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



243 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. '. 1 juv. 9. 

 FayettevUle, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 



19. 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



7 cf, 10 9, 1 juv. cf. 

 Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 



3 d\ 



Smith ( 'a nil i no. 



Florence, IX, ti, 1911, (R. & H.), 3 cf. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf , 3 juv. 9 . 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



2 cf, 1 9, 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 

 Yrmassee, IX, 4. 1911, (R. & H.), 



12 d\ 9 9. 



Georgia. 



Toccoa, VIII, 4, 1913, (H.), 3 juv. d\ 



2 juv. 9. 

 Currahee .Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.), 8 cf , 3 9 , 2 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 

 Sharp Mountain, VIII, 6, 1913, (R.), 



1 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. cf. 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. o\ 5 juv. 9 . 

 Macon, VII, 30-31. 1913, (R. & H.), 



3 cf , 4 juv. o"\ 4 juv. 9 . 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R ), 



3 cf , 3 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 



The present geographic race is the southern development of 

 M. luridus, and is found along the Atlantic coast as far north as 

 Petersburg, Virginia. In the extreme southern Appalachians it is met 

 with up to an elevation of about 2,000 feet, above which typical 

 luridus is found. 



This southern race is distinguished from luridus s.s. by its greater 

 size, more attenuate form and smoother structure, by the subgenital 

 plate of the male being longer in proportion to its width and by the 

 ventral valves of the ovipositor of the female having the distal 

 portions much longer and less curved, in fact nearly straight. 

 Scudder gave the character of the subgenital plate in his description 

 of keeleri, but wrongly contradicted himself in his key. 



A much greater amount of genital variation, particularly in the 

 shape of the cerci, is found in the present species than is usual in the 

 genus Melanoplus. There is also much variation in size and colora- 

 tion. The conclusion that the species increased regularly in size in 

 southward distribution 101 must be somewhat modified, for although 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 3 cf , 



29. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



14 cf, 3 9, 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9- 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 



39. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 4 cf , 



49. 

 Waynesville, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 6 cf . 



29. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911. 



(R. & H.), 5 cf, 3 9, 1 juv. 9. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



(R. & H.), 4 cf, 19. 

 Billy's Island, IX, XII, 23, 1911, 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 cf . 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf. 

 Spring Creek, VII, VIII, 1912-13, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 5 cf, 49; XI, 5, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 2 cf, 1 9. 

 Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 10 cf, 8 9. 

 Daytona, XI, 11, 1911, (G. P. Engle- 



hardt), 2 9, [B. I.]. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H), 



2 cf, 19. 



101 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 297, (1907). 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



this is true to a moderate degree, the large amount of material now 

 at hand shows that environmental differences have a more decided 

 effect. The table of measurements gives the normal dimensions 

 of material from different portions of the range of this race; certain 

 series before us are decidedly smaller than is usual, this differentia- 

 tion being apparently due to environmental conditions, this size reduc- 

 tion is shown by material from Macon, St. Simon's and Cumberland 

 Islands, Georgia, and to a less extent in the series from Tybee 

 Island, Georgia. In these series males average about 22 mm. and 

 females about 26 mm. in length. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Caudal Length of 



Length width of Length of caudal 



'<? cf of body. pronotum. tegmen. femur. 



Winter Park, N. C (6) 102 23.5-25.7 2.9-3 18-19.4 12.8-14.8 



Currahee Mountain, Ga. (8) 20.1-23.8 3-3.3 18-19.2 13.6-14 



Jesup, Ga (4) 22.3-23 2.8-3 18.2-19.9 13.7-14.3 



Atlantic Beach, Fla (10)19.4-27.2 2.8-3.4 18-21.4 13-15.1 



Miami, Fla (13)23-24.9 3.1-3.3 21.2-22.8 15-15.3 



Dallas, Texas (1) 25 3.3 20 15.2 



Houston, Tex (1) 25.6 3.3 19 14.8 



9 9 



Winter Park, N. C (11)28.2-32.5 3.8-4.1 20-22.3 15-17.7 



Currahee Mountain, Ga ..(3) 25.8-28.7 4-4.2 19.4-21.7 15.8-16.8 



Jesup, Ga (4) 26.3-30.3 3.8-4.6 20.4-24 15.4-17.4 



Atlantic Beach, Fla (8) 29-29.9 4-4.5 21.7-23 17.5-18.2 



Miami, Fla (13)29.6-35.5 4.1-4.4 23.5-26 17.3-18.8 



Houston, Tex (1) 30.7 4.3 21.4 16.9 



The synonymy of Scudder's M. deletor with the present insect has 

 been discussed and established by the authors. 103 



Many of the specimens here recorded are very dark in general 

 coloration, with the lighter areas of the caudal femora cinnamon color 

 and very striking; the series from Winter Park, North Carolina, 

 composed wholly of such specimens, is particularly brilliantly marked. 

 A few pale brown specimens have the markings of the caudal femora 

 subobsolete and suggest in appearance large and very heavy specimens 

 of M. femur-rubrum. 



Melanoplus furcatus Scudder. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, VI-VII, 1912; Jordan's, Billy's Island, Ga., VIII, 31, 

 IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 cf, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



4 9, 2 juv. <?. Honey Island, Ga., VI, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 juv. d". 



102 The figures in parentheses indicate the number of specimens measured 

 from each locality. 



103 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 296, (1907). 




L916-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



In addition to the above specimens we have before us the pre- 

 viously unique male and female, from Jacksonville, Florida, on which 

 the species was based. The Okeefenokee females are of similar 

 size to the Jacksonville one, but the single Billy's Island male is 

 somewhat smaller than the type, its measurements being: length 

 of body, 30 mm.; length of pronotum, 7.3; length of tegmen, 19.2; 

 length of caudal femur, 17.8. In coloration there is considerable 

 individual variation in the pale areas, one female having these more 

 ochraceous than the others, while one of the same sex has the same 

 areas appreciably rufous brown. The male and one of the females 

 from Billy's Island were 1 taken in coitu. The single immature 

 example from Billy's Island taken in June, and that from Honey Island 

 taken the same month, are in the same instar, while those from Billy's 

 Island taken in July and Jordan's, August 31, are in a more advanced 

 stage. The forking of the male cerci is indicated in all of the young, 

 although the difference between the two stages is in this respect 

 very appreciable. The July immature specimen is quite generally 

 blackish, but the June and August ones are oT a strongly contrasted 

 pattern with the pale areas on the dorsum of the head and pronotum 

 quite rufescent. 



Melanoplus clypeatus Scudder. 



Sandfly, Georgia, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2cf,29. 



This rare species was found in the heaviest undergrowth in gray- 

 bark pine woods, in more or less swampy situations. Specimens 

 were very scarce, even when thorough search was made for them. 

 The males, when disturbed, jumped or flew several feet, but the 

 females were more sluggish. 



In size the series before us, three males and five females, shows 

 little individual variation, while in color we find one condition much 

 paler and more ochraceous than another. This pale condition is 

 represented by one of the original "Georgia" males, now in the 

 Hebard Collection ex Bruner, a female from Thomasville, Georgia, 

 and one of the same sex from Sandfly. The degree of paleness of the 

 anal area of the tegmina is about equal in this species and furcatus, 

 varying somewhat in each. The females of these two species are 

 rather difficult to distinguish, but the more robust and less elongate 

 caudal femora of clypeatus will serve to separate the two. 



Sandfly and Thomasville, Georgia, are the only exact localities from 

 which the species is known, it originally having been described from 

 Georgia without more exact information. 

 17 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Melaiioplus femoratus (Burmeister). 



Maryland. Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Glen Echo, VII, 10, 1914, (H.), 1 <f . „ 2 9 -, 



Washington, D. C, VIII, 6, 1 cf, Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



[Hebard Cln.]. 2 tf 1 , 2 9 . 



Virginia. North Carolina. 



Arlington, VII, 9, 1914, (H.), 6 d". Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 2 9. 



H.), 2^,39. Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



19. 



The range of this species is now known to extend eastward to the 

 coast in Virginia (Virginia Beach), but in North Carolina it has not 

 been taken lower than Raleigh, while in Georgia it is only known 

 from elevated localities in the northern part of the State (Sand 

 Mountain and Blue Ridge). 



The species was scarce everywhere and was found in the moist 

 situations usually frequented, while at Fredericksburg it was also 

 encountered on rather barren hillsides. 



Melanoplus punctulatus punotulatus (Scudder). 



Maryland . Virginia . 



Cabin John Run, VIII, 1907, (W. Pal- Falls Church, X, 13, 1 a 1 , 1 9, [U. S. 



mer), 1 juv. <?, [U. S. N. M.]. N. M.]. 



Near Plummer's Island, X, 31, 1915, Georgia 



(W. Stone; in oak woods, few pines), Thompson > s MiIls> X) 1909) (H . A . All- 



w ?■' \ ' rv + ■ f (h i k- ty ard), 1 <?, [U. S. N. M.]. 



Washington, District of Columbia, IX, 



23, 1908, (A. N. Caudell), 1 <?, 



[U. S. N. M.]. 



Through the kindness of Mr. Franklin Sherman Jr., we have 

 been able to examine previously recorded material of this form from 

 Blantyre (IX, 1906; R. Woglum, 1 &) and Raleigh (X, 1907-XI, 1908; 

 F. Sherman Jr., 1 ci", 1 9 ), North Carolina. The Blantyre specimen 

 is perfectly typical punctulatus, while the Raleigh material shows a 

 faint approach toward punctulatus arbor eus in the slightly greater 

 thickening of the tubercle of the male subgenital plate. The Raleigh 

 specimens are, however, clearly true punctulatus. We have made a 

 careful study of all the available material of punctulatus and arbo- 

 reus, some thirty-five specimens in all, and are convinced that 

 Scudder's suggestion that arboreus might be only a geographic race 

 of punctulatus is correct. Aside from the larger size of the southern 

 specimens, the only constant, easily appreciated character which 

 we can find to separate the two forms is, that in p. punctulatus the 

 tubercle of the male subgenital plate is smaller, less produced and 

 thinner, while in p. arboreus the same structure is larger, more distinctly 

 produced and thicker and more inflated. The metazona of the pro- 




L916-] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



notuni. particularly in the male sex, is apparently more transverse 

 and less distinctly longitudinal in p. arboreus than in p. punctulatus, and 

 the caudal margin of the same area is more broadly obtuse-angulate. 

 The exact form of the male cerci shows so much variation in the 

 available males of punctulatus punctulatus, that we do not feel justified 

 in attempting to give the differences in this structure between the 

 series of the typical form and the very few male individuals of p. 

 arboreus. The form of the subgenital plate, however, is quite con- 

 stant as far as the material before us goes. 



The following measurements (in millimeters) show the regular 

 increase in size southward in typical punctulatus and the race arboreus: 



Length of 



Length of Length of Length of caudal 



.1/. p. punctulatus. body. pronotuni. tegmen. femur. 

 o* 



De Grassi Point, Ontario 18.5 4.6 16.4 11.3 



Bellasylva, Pennsylvania ... 21.5 5 18 12 



Blantyre, N. C ' 24.6 5.3 22 13.3 



Raleigh, N. C 24 5.5 17 13 



9 



De Grassi Point, Ont 29. 5 1M 5.6 18.8 11.9 



Bellasylva, Pa 27.6 5.5 19.3 12.8 



Stafford's Forge, New Jersey 29 6 20 14.4 



Virginia 6.3 21.3 14.8 



Raleigh, X. C 35.3 6.1 21.9 14.9 



M. p. arbon us. 

 o* 



Lake Drummond, Va 29.4 6.3 26.2 15.6 



Dallas, Texas 27.2 6.2 22.3 15 



9 



Lake Drummond, Va 27. 4 105 6.9 19.5 15.3 



Like Drummond. Va 36 8.9 30 19.3 



Southern Pines, N. C 38.7 8.5 26.6 18.5 



Walton County, Florida 35.5 8.2 26 18.4 



The distribution of typical punctulatus, in the east at least, seems 

 to be restricted to the Boreal, Transition and Upper Austral zones, 

 intergrading with p. arboreus, which is an Austroriparian form. 

 The Blantyre and Raleigh records are the most austral known to us 

 from the eastern State-. 



Melanoplus punctulatus arboreus Scudder. 



Virginia. 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 juv. 9 , [Heb- 



Lake Drummond, Dismal Swamp, X. ^d Cln.]. 



29, 1906, _4L S. Barber), 1 tf, 2 9, Florida. 



' . Walton County (taken from stomach 



(reorgia. of turkev killed in pine forest), 1 9, 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, [U. S. X. MJ. 



104 Abdomen greatly extended in this specimen. 



105 Abdomen greatly shrunken in this specimen. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



These records and that from Southern Pines, North Carolina, 

 given by Sherman and Brimley, 106 of which the material is now 

 before us, are the only ones known for the race from east of the 

 Mississippi. The Lake Drummond male is perfectly typical of the 

 form, one of the females is very small, in addition with its abdomen 

 greatly contracted, but we should consider it referable to p. arboreus, 

 while the other female is extremely large, in fact on the whole the 

 largest specimen from the east we have seen. It is possible that 

 difference of environment is responsible for the variation in these 

 two females, or the occasional instability of a form near the margin 

 of its range. The Dismal Swamp locality being so peculiar in itself, 

 representing nearly the extreme Austroriparian district in the east, as 

 well as a strongly marked accentuation of the same type of environ- 

 ment, we may find an explanation of this variation in the supposition 

 that the smaller individual would represent the normal-sized insect 

 for the geographic position of the locality, considering the regular 

 increase in size southward of the species, while the larger ones would 

 represent a decided response to the abnormally pronounced ten- 

 dencies of the region. 



The Stone Mountain individual is quite suffused with rufescent, 

 which strongly colors the pale areas. It was taken in a dusty road 

 bordered on each side by heavy pine woods. 



Paroxya atlantica atlantica Scudder. 



1898. Paroxya scudderi Blatchley, Can. Ent., XXX, p. 59. [Millers, Lake 

 County and Tolleston, Indiana.] 



North Carolina. Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 10 d\ S 9 . 



1 juv. 9 . . Georgia. 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H. , " 



1 9 Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 4 d", 



Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 9. _ 



1 9 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 o\ 



Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 ? • tt 



8 ^ 59 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 10 d\ 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & „ 2 ? I XII 1908, (H.), 1 tf. 



H ) 1 cf. Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 2 d% 



2 9. 



South Carolina. Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), (R. & H.), 2 tf, 1 9 . 



13 <?, 6 9 • Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



Sumter, V, 30, 1914, (W. Stone), 3 d\ H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



19,1 juv. d\ [A. N. S. P.]. Mixon's Hammock, Okeefenokee 



Manning, V, 23 and 28, 1914, (W. Swamp, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 1 tf, 1 9. 



Stone), 2 cf , 4 juv. <?, [A. N. S. P.]. Billy's Island, VI, VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Sullivan Island, IX, 5, 1911, (R. & Bradley), 5 c?, 4 9, 3 juv. j, 



H.), 1 d\ 19. 1 juv. 9. 



"*Ent. News, XXII, p. 389, (1911). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.) f Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, L911, (II. & 



4d\39. H.), 9cf, 29. 



Albany, VIII, 1. L913, (R. & II.), 1 d\ Pablo Beach, IX, 5, 27, L913, (W. T. 



1 9," 1 juv. d". Davis), 3 d\ 3 9. 



In. linn River, (T. J. Priddey), 1 9, 



Florida. [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Jacksonville, VIII. 25, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 I ';1X,7, 1913, XI, 5, 1911, (W. T. 

 Davis), 1 cf, 2 9. 



In conjunction with the above material, we have carefully studied 

 the very large series of the species already recorded and in our col- 

 lections, representing localities from Indiana and New Jersey to 

 extreme southern Florida. 



Examination of paratypes of P. scudderi and study of Blatchley's 

 original description of that insect show that the most important 

 characters given by Blatchley to separate scudderi from atlantica 

 are size, antenna! and cereal length and shape of the furcula. The 

 first three of these characters are shown by the appended table of 

 measurements to be decidedly variable in the species, and too unstable 

 to be considered of even racial significance, while the shape of the 

 furcula is shown by the material before us to afford no recognizable 

 differences. 



Blatchley's species consequently falls, for although the present 

 insect shows that other geographic races are probably in the process 

 of formation, none of these, excepting P. a. paroxyoides, has as j r et 

 reached a sufficient differential development to be conscientiously 

 recognized. An effort to describe the more pronounced of these 

 formative races would only create unnecessary confusion. Many 

 other species, among which are Clinocephalus elegans, Chortophaga 

 viridifasciata and PardalopJiora phmnicoptera, demonstrate incipient 

 racial development which has not as yet reached a stage where such 

 can be properly recognized and geographic races described. 



Measurements {in mi Hi meters) of extremes. 



Length Length of Length of Length of 



c? of body. antenna. pronotum. tegmen. 



Lake County, Indiana 17-17.4 8.5-8.8 4.2-4.6 11-12.2 



Stafford's Forge, New Jersey. 18. 8-19. 6 9.5-10 4.5-4.6 11-11.2 



Winter Park, N. C .... 20. 4-21. 7 10-13.2 4.7-5.1 13.2-14.7 



Jesup,Ga 21.8-24 10.7-11.5 4.9-5.6 14.5-17 1 



Atlantic Beach, Fla 21.2-25 11-12.8 5-5.8 15.3-18.3 



Miami, Fla 15.7-19 S.4-10 3.6-4.4 13-15.9 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Length of Width of 

 Width of caudal caudal Length of 



<? tegmen. femur. femur. cercus. 



Lake County, Indiana 2.2-2.3 10.8-11 2.4-2.5 1.6-1.8 



Stafford's Forge, New Jersey. 2. 2-2. 4 10.2-10.6 2.5-2.6 1.5-1.8 



Winter Park, N. C 2.7-3 11.7-14.7 2.9-3.3 1.7-1.8 



Jesup, Ga 3-3.2 12.5-14.2 3-3.4 1.9-2 



Atlantic Beach, Fla 2.S-3.5 12.9-14 3.3-3.4 1.8-2 



Miami, Fla 2.1-2.4 10.6-11.5 2.6-3 1.5-1.7 



The females show a similar variability, which demonstrates that 

 examples from the most northern localities in the distribution of the 

 insect are smaller, with shorter tegmina and wings, the increase in 

 size in the southward distribution reaching its maximum in southern 

 Georgia and northern Florida. Southward in Florida a considerable 

 decrease in size, accompanied by a general attenuation of form, is 

 found, specimens from the mainland of extreme southern Florida 

 being the smallest and most attenuate of any before us, with pro- 

 portionately the longest tegmina and wings. A well-defined geo- 

 graphic race, P. a. paroxyoides, occupies the Florida Keys. 



Although dark individuals are present in all of the series before us, 

 we find the material from the coast of the Carolinas and Georgia 

 to be more yellow in general coloration than is usual in specimens 

 from other portions of the range of the species. Such specimens 

 were noticed to be particularly brilliant in life, and showed a very 

 close parallelism in color and markings to Melanoplus australis, with 

 which insect the present species was often found. In life Melanoplus 

 australis is one of the most brilliantly colored species of that very 

 large genus. 



This insect prefers moist spots, usually in forest undergrowth 

 or on the margins of swamps and marshes. It was found common 

 in an open glade covered with grasses over a foot in height (Florence), 

 particularly in the drier portions of the salt-marsh margin (Tybee 

 Island), about the edges of a wet depression in pine woods (Winter 

 Park, Jesup), at the first of these localities associated with Melanoplus 

 decorus, and in a heavy tangle of vegetation in a cabbage palmetto 

 "hammock" (Atlantic Beach). The species was occasional in swamp 

 grasses along a heavily wooded "branch" (Fayetteville) and scarce 

 in strand plants (Cumberland Island), in low bog vegetation through 

 the long-leaf pine woods (Homerville), in low vegetation and 

 grasses near swamp (Mixon's Hammock) and in a cypress swamp 

 (Jacksonville). 



The present species is known on the Atlantic coast from Jamesburg 

 and Lakehurst, New Jersey, southward to the extreme southern por- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



tion of the mainland of Florida. Its westward distribution does not 

 extend as far inland as the fall line, hut south of this harrier in ( reorgia 

 and the Gulf States and along the Gulf coast it is found west of the 

 area treated in the present paper and has been taken in the Mississippi 

 valley region within half a mile of the shores of Lake Michigan. 

 Paroxya clavuliger (Serville). 



Paroxya florididna of Thomas ami authors. 



Washington, I). ('., XI II, 1883, 2 <?, Warm Springs, VII, 18, 1913, (J. C. 

 1 9, [Hebard Cln.]. Bradley), I tf. 



Virginia. T - v, '*; < ' Island > IX > 2 > 1911 > (H ->> 5 <?» 



Petersburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), Jesup - IX x 1911 (R . & H) l & 



1 juv cf, 1 juv. 9. g |UV-9 . 



Newport News IX 16, 1907, (B. Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 small 

 1 -""- • 19,[A.N.S.P.]. juv . cfj 2 small juv. 9. 



North Carolina. Mixon's Hammock, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), u -l small juv. £. 



3 i 29 Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), ley) - 19> „, ., 



._> r ;} q Florida. 



Georgia _ Jacksonville, IX, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. <fc H.), Atlantic" Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



2 c?, 2 juv. 9. H.), 2 c?, 89. 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R, & H.), Pablo Beach, IX, 27, 1913, (W. T. 

 1 juv. 9. Davis), 1 9. 



It is much to be regretted that Serville's description and figures 

 of Acridium claniliger 107 have so long been overlooked. There is 

 not the least doubt that the present insect is the species which he 

 described, and Thomas' Caloptenus floridianus, described in 1874, 108 

 has consequently been placed in the synonymy here. 



Blatchley did not compare his P. hoosieri with the present species, 

 to which it is very closely related. P. clavuliger differs in having the 

 furcula less heavy and usually more widely separated, and the sub- 

 genital plate with the lateral portions of the caudal margin decidedly 

 less elevated; still other differential characters appear to exist. 



The material here recorded fully bears out the authors' previous 

 assertion that the present species shows a marked increase in size 

 southward in its distribution. 109 The distribution of the species is, 

 to a certain degree, discontinuous, as it is scarcely ever met with 

 except in boggy, swampy or marshy surroundings; it is particularly 

 partial to such locations when situated in the open or along the 

 borders of woods. 



Hist. Nat. Ins., ( >rth., p. 676, pi. XIV, figs, lla-b, (1839). [North America.] 

 108 Bull. (J. S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. Terr., I. p. (is, (1874). [Florida.] 

 10j Pkoc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Piiji.a., 1907, p. 298, (1907). 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The insect is found everywhere in favorable situations on those 

 portions of the coastal plain treated in the present paper. It is 

 uncommon on the Piedmont plateau and in that region has been 

 found only at Appomattox, Virginia, and at Buckhead, Stone 

 Mountain and Warm Springs, Georgia. 



Aptenopedes sphenarioides sphenarioides Scudder. 



1877. Aptenopedes rufovittata Scudder, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XIX, 

 p. 85. (In part.) [Fort Reed, Florida.] 



Georgia. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf, R ? juv 9 . tv v loin n r n A 



19,1 juv. 9 ; XII, 1906, (H.), 3 tf, Bainbndge, IX-X, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 



2 9,ljuv. tf. ley), 19. 



Brunswick, VII, 30, 1911, (H.),6c?,3 9 . Florida. 



St. Simon's Island, VII, 30, 1911, Jacksonville, VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & 



(R. & H.), 1 juv. 9. H.), 4 c?, 19; VIII, 1885, (W. H. 



Cumberland Island, VII, 31, 1911, Ashmead), 3 o\ 2 9, 1 juv. 9, 



(R. & H.), 5 <?, 1 juv. &. ' [Hebard Cln.]; XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. 



Suwannee Creek, VII, 28, 1911, (R. & Davis), 7 <?, 6 9 . 



H.), 2 juv. 9 ■ Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- H.), 32 d\ 89, 1 juv. <?, 3 juv. 9 . 



lev), 3 d% 1 juv. 9 ; XI, 5. 1913, Pablo Beach, IX, 5, 1913, (W. T. 



(J. C. Bradley), 2 9, 1 juv. <?, Davis), 2 <?, 2 9 , 1 juv d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



2 juv. 9. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Jordan's, Okeefenokee Swamp, VIII, 19,1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 • 



31, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 19. Daytona, XI, 11, 1911, (G. P. Engle- 



Homerville, VII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), hardt), 1 d% 1 9, [B. I.]. 



1 d', 19, 1 juv. tf 1 , 1 juv. 9- 



Disassociation of the sexes caused Scudder to describe three, 

 instead of two, species at the time he erected the present genus. 

 After describing sphenarioides, he described rufovittata, and then 

 aptera from a single female. The second species is a combination 

 of four adult males of aptera and three immature females of sphena- 

 rioides. We here select as single type of A. rufovittata, the only 

 immature female of the type series of that species in the Scudder 

 Collection (the others, from the Cornell University, having also been 

 seen by us) , and in consequence we place rufovittata in the synonymy 

 under sphenarioides. 



The specimens from Pablo Beach are the largest we have seen of 

 the present form, being in length as follows: males 17-21.8, females 

 24.5-28 mm. This size is greatly exceeded in the southern race, 

 A. s. clara. The smallest individuals before us are from Brunswick 

 (male 15.4, female 20 mm.), the specimens from Jesup taken in 

 December are also unusually small. 



In the latitude of southern Georgia the species appears adult in 

 the largest numbers not earlier than late August, and is found numer- 

 ous in both adult and immature condition throughout the winter. 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



It is our opinion that although the majority of adults appear in the 



late fall, there arc young reaching maturity in every month of the year. 



The distribution of the present insect is known to extend from 



Savannah, Georgia, westward to Bainbridge, Georgia and De Funiak 



Springs, Florida, and southward to central Florida, where the southern 

 race, A. s. clara, takes its place. 



Aptenopedes aptera Scudder. 



Georgia. Florida. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 5 d\ Jacksonville, VIII, 25, mil, (R. & II. . 



6 9, 2 juv. 9. :: d\ 3 9, 4 juv. 9 ; VIII, 1885, 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 4 <?, (W. II. Ashmead), 1 cf,2 9, [Hebard 



2 9. Cln.]; XI, 5, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 19. 



(R. & H.), 1 juv. 9 . Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 25, 1911, 



Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & (R. & H.), 3 d 1 , 7 juv. 9 . 



H.), 2 o", 1 9, 1 juv. o", 4 juv. 9. Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Bomerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & 1 <?. 



H.), 4 cf, 7 juv. c?, 7 juv. 9 . Newberry, IX, 18, 1911, (W. T. Davis), 



St. Marys, III to IV, 1896, (O. Bancs), 1 9. 



1 9, [M. C. Z.|. Archer, 1882, 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



This insect appears earlier in the year than does A. sphenarioides, 

 though in different years its appearance seems to vary, as in mid- 

 August of 1905 adults were found numerous in northern Florida, 

 while in late August of 1911 adults were few but young numerous 

 in the same region. 



This species, like A. sphenarioides, is found widely distributed 

 throughout the pine woods over its entire range; in Georgia and 

 northern Florida these pines being usually of the long-leaf species, 

 while in southern Florida they are the antillean pine, Pinus caribcea. 

 At Brunswick it was found occasional in the adult condition on 

 palmetto flats, while at Homerville immature individuals were very 

 common but adults rare in a low area in the pine woods overgrown 

 with a low heather-like plant, Kalinin hirsuta. 



The present insect is known from Jesup to Homerville, Georgia, 

 southward over peninsular Florida and on the keys at Big Pine Key. 



TETTIGONIID^J. 

 Arethaea phalangium Scudder. 

 Hebardville, ' teorgia, V, 15, 1915, (H.; undergrowth in pine woods), 1 juv. 9 . 



This very scarce species is further represented in the series now 

 under consideration by a single male from Augusta, Georgia, which 

 specimen has recently been studied in a revisionary paper on the 



present genus. 110 



110 See Rehn and Hebard. Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XL, pp. 146, 1 17, 148, (191 1 . 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Stilpnochlora marginella (Serville). 



Sanford, Florida, XI, 28, 1911, (G. P. Englehardt), 19, [B. I.]. 



Fort Myers and Lake Worth, Florida, are the most northern local- 

 ities previously recorded for this species. 



SCUDDEEIA Stal. 



We have recently fully treated the material of this genus in the 

 present collections. 111 The localities for the collections here being 

 studied are as follows: 



Scudderia curvicauda laticauda Brunner. 



Typical material. Wilmington and Winter Park, North Carolina; 

 Yemassee, South Carolina; Mixon's Hammock, Billy's Island, Albany 

 and Spring Creek, Georgia, and Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach, 

 Florida. 



Material approaching S. curvicauda s.s. Petersburg and Orange, 

 Virginia; Weldon, Charlotte and Fayetteville, North Carolina; Spar- 

 tanburg and Columbia, South Carolina, and Jasper, Currahee Moun- 

 tain, vicinity of Stone Mountain, Warm Springs and Macon, Georgia. 



Scudderia texensis Saussure and Pictet. 



Wrightsville and Winter Park, North Carolina; Yemassee, South 

 Carolina; Tybee Island, Jesup, Billy's Island, Honey Island, Tifton, 

 Albany and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach 

 and Live Oak, Florida. 



In addition we now have 1 juv. cf , Manning, South Carolina, V, 

 28, 1914, (W. Stone), [A. N. S. P.]. 



Scudderia furcata furcata Brunner. 



Washington, District of Columbia; Fayetteville, Wrightsville and 

 Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Yemassee, South Carolina; Rome, 

 Stone Mountain, Isle of Hope, Albany and Spring Creek, Georgia, 

 and Jacksonville, Florida. 



A female of this species from Highlands, North Carolina, is now 

 before us, which specimen has been incorrectly recorded as S. cuneata 

 by Sherman and Brimley. 



Scudderia cuneata Morse. 



Fayetteville, Lake Waccamaw and Wrightsville, North Carolina; 

 Florence, South Carolina; Sandfly, Brunswick and Billy's Island, 

 Georgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



111 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XL, pp. 271-314, (1914). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Symmetropleura modesta Brunner. 



North Carolina. Florida. 



State record, 1 \ [Hebard Cln.]. Fernandina, (W. H. Finn), 1 d", 



Raleigh, VIII, 8, 1905, 19, [U. S. [U. S. N. M.]. 



X. M.J. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 25, 1911, 



G( orgia. 2 9 • 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- Crescent City, VI, I ■■?, jr. S. X M 



ley), 1 d"- ' Enterprise, \ , 25, 1 cf, [U- - s - N. M.J. 



Spring Creek, VI, 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 <?. 



Quite decided size variation is shown by the material of this very 

 scarce species now before us. The specimens from southeastern 

 Georgia and northwestern Florida are exceptionally large, a condition 

 which has been noted in material of numerous other species from that 

 region. 



The species was found in reeds in a marshy spot and was beaten 

 from bayberry bushes, Myrica cerifera, at Atlantic Beach, while the 

 specimen from Crescent City was found on orange trees. 



The known distribution of the species is considerably extended 

 by the above records. 



AMBLYCORYPHA St&l. 



The material of this genus found in the present collections has 

 recently been fully studied by the authors. 112 The localities for the 

 present collections are as follows: 



Amblycorypha oblongifolia (De Geer). 



Weldon, North Carolina. 



Amblycorypha floridana floridana Rehn and Hebard. 



Typical material. Jacksonville and Atlantic Beach, Florida. 



Material intermediate between floridana s.s. and floridana carinata. 

 Jacksonville, Florida; Billy's Island, Honey Island, Spring Creek and 

 Isle of Hope, Georgia, and Yemassee and Ashley Junction, South 

 Carolina. 



The following specimens now before us probably represent the 

 immature condition of such intermediates between the races of the 

 present species: 



Eebardville, Georgia, V, 15, 1915, (H.; undergrowth in pine woods), 

 1 juv. cf. 



Mixon's Hammock, Ga., V, 16, 1915, (H.; hammock undergrowth), 

 1 juv. 9 . 



Amblycorypha floridana carinata Rehn and Hebard. 



Petersburg, Virginia, and Silver bake, Georgia. 

 ™ Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XL. pp. 315-340, (1914). 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Amblycorypha uhleri Stal. 



Fredericksburg, Virginia; Weldon, Goldsboro and Lake Waccamaw, 

 North Carolina; Columbia and Yemassee, 'South Carolina; Currahee 

 Mountain, Toccoa, Jasper, Buckhead, Stone Mountain, Augusta, Isle 

 of Hope, Sandfly, Brunswick, Macon, Albany and Spring Creek> 

 Georgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



Amblycorypha rotundifolia rotundifolia (Scudder). 



Typical material. Spartanburg, South Carolina, and Tuckoluge 

 Creek in Rabun County, Toccoa and Currahee Mountain, Georgia. 



In addition we now have 1 d" , Black Mountain, North Carolina, 

 VII, 1912, (W. Beutenmuller), [Davis Cm.]. 



Intermediates between rotundifolia s.s. and rotundifolia parvipennis. 

 Winter Park, North Carolina, and Macon and Warm Springs, Georgia. 



Microcentrum rhombifolium (Saussure). 



Delaware. Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



Delaware, 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 1 &• 



Georgia . 



Austell, VIII, 27, 1910, 1 d\ [Ga. 

 Chestertown, VIII, 2-23, 1899-1909, g tat e Cln ] 



(KG. Vanatta), 6 c?, 5 9, [A. N. Is i e of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R.'& H.), 



Maryland. 

 own, 

 . Vai 

 S. P.]. 



1 o\ 19. 

 Virginia. Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



Near Washington, D. C., IX, 2-X, 1, (R. & H.), 1 d". 



1883, 1 d\ 19, [Hebard Cln.]. Spring Creek, (J. C. Bradley), 19, 



South Carolina. [Ga " State Cln ' ] - 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



At Florence this insect was taken in an open area covered with 

 grasses, while at Ashley Junction and Isle of Hope it was beaten 

 from heavy undergrowth in pine woods, and secured in the same 

 fashion from bayberry, Myrica cerifera, on Cumberland Island. 



Microcentrum retinerve (Burmeister). 



Maryland. Virginia. 



Plummer's Island, VIII, 28 to X, Near Washington, DC X, 13, 1883, 

 13, 1904 to 1906, (Caudell; McAtee; 1 <?> 1 ? » [Hebard Cln.]. 



Fisher), 19 tf, [U. S. N. M.]. Q ■ 



Washington, District of Columbia, IX, , , y ' 



24 to XI, 3, 1906 and 1907, (A. N. Thompson s Mills, X, 1910, (H. A. 

 Caudell), 3 cf , [U. S. N. M.]. Allard), 1 <?, [US. N. M.] 



Bainbridge, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 , 

 [Ga. State Cln.]. 



Pterophylla camellifolia camellifolia (Fabricius). 



( 'yrtophyllus perspicillatus of authors. 



1906. CyrtophyllMS elongatus Caudell, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XIV, figs. 

 37, 40. [Crawford and Fountain Counties, Indiana.] 




1916.] 



XATIKAL SCIKN'CKS Ol I'll 1 1. \ DKI.I'1 1 1 A. 



257 



Maryland. 

 Chestertown, VIII, 24, (E. G. Van- 



atta), 1 9, [A. X. S. P.]. 

 Plummer's [sland, VII, 16 to X, 1, 



1005 to 1015, (Barber; Schwarz; 



demons; Fisher; McAtee), &, 



09, [U. S. X. M.|. 



District of Columbia. 

 Washington, IX, 15, 1009, (H. E. 



Ausherman), 1 <?, [V. S. X. M.|. 

 Piney Branch, VIII, 15, 1005, (D. II. 



demons), 1 c\ [U. S. N. M.]. 



North Carolina. 113 

 Blowing Hock, 1002, (J. Willar), 19, 



[A. X. S. P.]; VIII, 1007, (F. Sher- 

 man, Jr.), 19, [N. C. State Dept. 



\ur.]. 

 Winston, \ III. 1000, (H. S. Wolgum), 



1 9, [X. C. State Dept.. Agr.J. 

 Alamance County, VII, 1005, (F. 



Sherman), 19, [X. C. State Dept. 



Agr.]. 



Georgia. 



Mountain City, VIII, 10, 1013, (J. C. 



Bradley), 2 <?. 

 Thompson's Mills, (II. A. Allard), 1 <?, 



[U.S. X. M.]. 



The name Pterophylla has been revived by AV. F. Kirby, 114 and an 

 examination of the original place of publication of the name 115 shows 

 that it was proposed by AV. Kirby for five species, one of which was 

 Locusta camellifolia. of Fabricius. 116 AV. F. Kirby has selected this 

 species as the type of the genus. 



The names camellifolia and perspicillata, one based on the female 

 sex and the other on the male sex, were proposed by Fabricius on the 

 same page, the former having line priority. In consequence it is 

 necessary to use the name standing first. 



Pterophylla camellifolia intermedia (Caudell). 

 Cyrtophyllus intermedins of Caudell. 



Examination of the types and a single male before us from South 

 Carolina leads us to believe that Caudell's intermedins is the southern 

 race of camellifolia. The specimen from South Carolina is nearly 

 intermediate in character between the two conditions, the ventral 

 fork of the cercus not being as short, and the mesal production not as 

 decided, as in the types of this race. In this specimen the tegmina 

 are long and the enlargement of the distal portion of the subgenital 

 plate is greater than in camellifolia s.s. (greatest width 2.6 mm.). 



In the heavily forested areas bordering the rivers of the southeastern 

 United States we have at night often heard a species of the present 

 genus. The song was much quicker and sharper than that of the 



113 Although all of the specimens from this State here recorded are females, 

 we have before us previously recorded males from Raleigh, which show the 

 material from this region, at least from above the fall line, to be typical camelli- 

 folia. 



"*Syn. Cat. Orth., II, p. 343, (1006). 



115 Kirby and Spence, Introd. Ent., II, p. 218, (1828). 



"• Syst. Ent., p. 283, (1775). 




258 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



northern insect, and these individuals probably belonged to the 

 present form. 117 



Belocephalus subapterus Scudder. 



South Carolina. Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 1 J uv - 9 ■ 



2 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . Thomasville, XII, 18, 1908, (H.), 2 <?. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Florida. 



Vemaiee,"lX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), Jacksonville VIII, 25 1911, (R & H ), 



4 ji o uv rf 7 iuv 9 l JUV - 9 ; XI ' b - 1911 ' Gl P - En " ! ''- 



*<?,* juv. cf, i juv. v . hardt), 1 9 , [B. I.]. 



Georgia. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



Savannah, VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P- H.), 2 cf, 2 9, 2 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9 . 



Morse), 1 juv. cf. Hastings, (A. J. Brown), 3 cf, 3 9, 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 



2 cf 39 1 juv 9 Williston, I, 9, 1S93, (M. H. Barton), 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 cf , 1 <?> [U. S. N. M.]. 



1 9 2 juv 9 Sanford, X, 24, 1889, (W. A. Gould), 



Jesup,' IX, 1, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 juv. <?. 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), Orlando, (A. Haden), 19, [Hebard 



1 juv. cf • Cln -1- 



Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, Fort Drum, 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



(R. & H.), 1 juv. cf . Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (H.), 1 9 . 



Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. Tallahassee, VIII, 8, 1903, (A. P. 



Bradley), 1 juv. cf ; XII, 23, 1913, Morse), 1 juv. cf. 



(J. C. Bradley), 8 cf . 



Measurements (in millimeters) of extremes. 



Produc- Ventral 



tion of length of 



vertex fastigium Length of 



Length of beyond of Length of caudal 



body. eye. vertex, pronotum. femur. 



Florence, S. C 25.3 2.9 1.9 6.9 14.7 



Yemassee, S. C 24.6-26.3 2.7-2.8 1.7-2 6.5-6.9 13.3-14.3 



Sandfly, Ga 27.4-29.7 3 -3.2 2.4-2.2 7-7.2 15-15.1 



Billy's Island, Ga 23.8-27.3 2.5-3 1.7-2.1 6.2-7.7 13.1-15.8 



Thomasville, Ga 24.5-24.7 2.4-2.6 1.6 6.3-7.3 13.5-15.1 



Atlantic Beach, Fla. 32.3-36.1 3.3-4 2.3-3.2 7.8-8.3 16.1-18.8 



9 



Live Oak, Fla 37.3 4 3.1 8.7 18.8 



These measurements show that scarcely any size variation may 

 be correlated with the northern and southern distribution of this 

 insect. Material from the region about Jacksonville (including 

 Atlantic Beach and Pablo Beach) is the largest we have ever seen; 

 this has been found to be true in the case of a number of other species 

 and is apparently due to environmental conditions. The series 

 from the not distant Billy's Island in the Okeefenokee Swamp 



117 Caudell records a specimen of what he considered elongatus, which we find 

 to be a synonym of camellifolia, as taken when stridulating "a higher quicker 

 note." The unquestionable status and full distribution of intermedia will only 

 be known when much larger collections of these insects have been made. 




1916.] NATURAL S( IKXCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



averages the smallest of any before us, the average being nearer 

 the minimum measurements given above. 



The material before us shows the vertex to be variable in the 

 presenl insect, both in degree of production and shape. The vertex 

 ranges from a produced form in which the apical spine is long and 

 nearly straight, to one in which the vertex is decidedly less produced 

 with the apical spine short and strongly uncinate. The former type 

 is most decided in material before us from Live Oak and the region 

 about Jacksonville, while the specimens from Thomasville represent 

 the most decided development of the latter type. 



The majority of specimens before us are, apparently irrespective 

 of sex, of the green color phase. In the brown color phase the 

 latero-dorsal lines of the pronotum are more pronounced. 



The present species is one of the latest to appear; in southern 

 Georgia adults are present in the greatest numbers probably early in 

 December, at which time the first killing frosts usually occur. Davis 

 has found the closely related B. rehni apparently hibernating in 

 winter in northeastern peninsular Florida. 



The above records considerably extend the known range of the 

 species both norttrward and southward. The material before us was 

 taken in an open spot in the pine woods covered w r ith high grass 

 (Florence), in wet spot in pine woods (Ashley Junction), in gray-bark 

 pine woods in heavy undergrowth of green plants and vines (Isle of 

 Hope and Sandfly), on a young cabbage palmetto (Thomasville), 

 in a palmetto "hammock," in a tangle of raspberry and grape vines 

 and other plants (Atlantic Beach), in a small clump of ground oak 

 on the side of a sink hole (Live Oak) and on pineapple (Orlando). 



Belocephalus davisi new species. 



The present species, which we take pleasure in naming after the 

 devoted student of this genus, Mr. William T. Davis, is related more 

 closely to B. sabalis and B. sleighti than to the other species of the 

 g< mis. It is a large insect, nearly as robust as the two species men- 

 tioned above, but agrees with the otherwise very different B. sub- 

 apU rus in having similar black markings on head, antennae and 

 pronotum. 



Nearest affinity to sabalis and sleighti is shown by the supra- 

 anal plate, which in these species only is very deeply emarginate 

 mesad. This deep emargination is usually constant in form and 

 distinctive in these species; in sabalis it has the sides straight with 

 angle acute, the lateral productions formed by this emargination 

 have evenly converging sides with acute apex situated mesad; 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in sleighti this emargination is extremely deep and has the sides 

 concave with angle not acute, but rather narrowly rounded, the 

 lateral productions thus formed have sharply acute apices, which, 

 however, are situated on their outer margins, due to the convexity of 

 their inner margins; in davisi the emargination is not quite as deep 

 as in sleighti, with the sides convex and angle very broadly rounded, 

 the lateral productions formed by this emargination have evenly 

 converging sides with blunt and sharply rounded apex situated mesad. 

 The supra-anal plate in the other species of the genus, with distal 

 margin very broadly and shallowly concave, is very distinct. 



Type: cf ; Billy's Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, Georgia. September 

 1-5, 1913. (J. C. Bradley.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 156.] 



Description of Type. — -Size large for the genus, form robust, but 

 not as decidedly robust as in sabalis and sleighti. Head in form 

 much as in those species, but with ventral portion not as broad; not 

 immaculate as in those species, but agreeing with the other species 

 of the genus in having the ventral margin of the face above the 

 clypeus broadly banded with black, and with the base of the antennae 

 margined ventrad, and the dorsal surface of the fastigium of the 

 vertex lined laterad, with the same color. Antennae with proximal 

 joints marked with black, these markings becoming fainter distad 

 and disappearing at the end of the proximal third. Pronotum with 

 dorsum more constricted than in sabalis and sleighti and striped 

 latero-dorsad with black. Tegmina as in those species. Supra-anal 

 plate deeply emarginate mesad with sides convex and angle broadly 

 rounded, the lateral productions formed by this emargination having 

 evenly converging sides, but with apex blunt and sharply rounded. 

 Cerci and subgenital plate as in sabalis and sleighti, limbs and arma- 

 ment of the same similar, but decidedly less robust; unlike in those 

 species the limbs are marked with fine black punctae on the more 

 exposed surfaces. 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as the type, but taken on December 28, 

 1913. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Size somewhat larger than type, form 

 similar. Head broader, more inflated than in females of subapterus: 

 antennae similar. Pronotum more inflated than in type, but, as in 

 the other species of the genus, the latero -dorsal stripes are in this 

 sex no further separated caudad than cephalad. Tegmina very 

 small and pad-like and wings not visible, as in females of the other 

 species of the genus. Supra-anal plate triangularly produced with 

 sides concave and apex acute. Ovipositor slightly shorter than 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



caudal femur, heavy proximad and tapering gently, and with a very 

 weak dorsad curvature, to the sharp, unarmed apex. Subgenital 

 plate large, lateral margins produced in long, slender spines which 

 are subparallel and lie along the shaft of the ovipositor. General 



color brown with black markings as in the type. 



Ten parat ypic males bearing the same data as the type are before us. 



Measurements {in millimeters). 



type. Paratypic Allotype. 



d 1 o" o* 9 



Length of body 34.3 32.9-40.3 36 



Length of vertex 3.8 3.7-4.5 4.1 



Vertex from tooth to apex 2.6 2.6-3.6 3.4 



Length of pronotum 8.3 7.9-8.9 8.1 



Length of tegmen 6 5.6-7.1 2.3 



Length of caudal femur 16.4 16.7-18.8 Is I 



Length of ovipositor 19.2 



As in the other species of the genus of which we have a number 

 of specimens, a considerable amount of size variation is present in 

 this insect. There is also a decided amount of variation in the shape 

 of the supra-anal plate in the above examples, though material of 

 sit ighti and sabalis is constant in this respect, and, although in none 

 of the paratypes is the median emargination as deep as in sleiejhti, 

 the form. of this emargination, and of the lateral productions thus 

 formed, is in one of the paratypes similar to the type found in that 

 species, and in several others is intermediate in character. 



Four male paratypes and the female allotype are of the brown color 

 phase, the other six specimens, male type and paratypes, are green. 



The males were taken at night by Dr. Bradley, when they 

 were found in numbers stridulating in the undergrowth of the pine 

 woods. 



Iii addition to this material we have before us a dried alcoholic 

 pair taken by R. A. Mills at Chuluota, Florida, and now in the United 

 States National Museum. 



Pyrgocorypha uncinata (Harris). 



Arkansas. Georgia. 



Bol Springs, IV, 1906, (C. S. Hebard), Thompson's Mills, IX, 1909, (H. A 

 1 <?, [Hebard Cln.]. Allan! >, 1 9 , [U. S. X. M.]. 



Bainbridge, (J. C. Bradley), 19. 



The specimen from Hot Springs was taken in a hotel where it had 

 been attracted by the lights at night, with it several examples of 

 \ i oconocephalus triops (mexicanas of most authors) were taken. 

 18 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



NEOCONOCEPHALUS Karny. 



The authors have recently studied the species of this genus found 

 in North America north of the Mexican boundary. 118 The material 

 from the region at present under consideration is there treated in 

 full. We give below the localities for this material. 



Neoconocephalus exiliscanorus (Davis). 



Washington, District of Columbia, and Rosslyn and Clarendon, 

 Virginia. 



The species has also been recorded in the region under consideration 

 from Raleigh, North Carolina, and Thompsons Mills, Georgia. 



Neoconocephalus melanorhinus (Rehn and Hebard). 



Ocean City, Maryland. 



Neoconocephalus robustus crepitans (Scudder). 



Chesapeake Beach, Somerset Heights, Plummer's Island, Maryland; 

 Washington, District of Columbia; Herndon, Clarendon, Oceanview 

 and Virginia Beach, Virginia; Tarboro, Raleigh, Salisbury, Southern 

 Pines and Wrightsville, North Carolina; Columbia and Denmark, 

 South Carolina; Atlanta, Augusta, Tybee Island and Albany, Georgia, 

 and Atlantic Beach and Hastings, Florida. 

 Neoconocephalus caudellianus (Davis). 



Yemassee, South Carolina, and Billy's Island, Georgia. 



Neoconocephalus velox Rehn and Hebard. 



Billy's Island, Georgia. 

 Neoconocephalus retusus (Scudder). 



Laurel and Plummer's Island, Maryland ; Washington and Anolostan 

 Island, District of Columbia; Rosslyn, Falls Church and Roanoke, 

 Virginia; Fayetteville, Wrightsville and Winter Park, North Caro- 

 lina; Florence, South Carolina; Atlanta, Albany, Bainbridge and 

 Fargo, Georgia, and South Jacksonville and Daytona, Florida. 



Neoconocephalus triops (Linnaeus). 



Conocephalus mexicanus and fusco-striatus of recent authors. 



Washington, District of Columbia; Hampton and Virginia Beach, 

 Virginia; Fayetteville, North Carolina; Florence and Yemassee, 

 South Carolina; Atlanta, Jesup, St. Simon's Island, Cumberland 

 Island, Billy's Island, Thomasville and Bainbridge, Georgia, and 

 Jacksonville, Hastings and Daytona, Florida. 



118 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XL, pp. 365-413, (1915). 




■» 



1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



Homorocoryphus malivolans (Scudder). 



Tappahannock, Virginia, VII, 13 to Wilmington, North Carolina, VIII, 1, 

 VIII, 18, 1915, (II. Fox), 29c?, (G. P. Englehardt), 19, UD [U.S. 



12 9, [Fox Cln.]. N. M.]. 



From the area covered by the present paper, the species has 

 previously been recorded only from the single specimen from Wil- 

 mington, North Carolina. It, however, probably occurs in the tidal 

 marshes of the Atlantic coast, from southern Florida northward as 

 far as the Virginia locality given above. 



This interesting species was found by Dr. Fox quite frequent in 

 the dense growth of tall reeds, Spartina cynosuroides, in a tidal marsh. 



ORCHELIMUM Serville. 



The material of this genus in the collections before us has recently 

 been fully treated by the present authors. 120 The localities from the 

 collections here being studied are as follows: 



Orchelimum agile (DeGeer). 



Chestertown, Cedar Point and Hyattsville, Maryland; Washington, 

 D. C; Rosslyn, Addison, Appomattox and Virginia Beach, Virginia; 

 Hamlet, Wilmington, Winter Park, Wrightsville and Lake Wacca- 

 maw, North Carolina; Yemassee, South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, 

 Stone Mountain, Savannah, Jesup, Tybee Island, Cumberland Island, 

 Hebardville and Albany, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jackson- 

 ville, Ortega, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Live Oak, Carrabelle, 

 Marianna, Quincy, Hastings and Sanford, Florida. 



Orchelimum glaberrimum (Burmeister). 



Virginia Beach and Cape Henry, Virginia; Raleigh, Goldsboro, Fay- 

 etteville, Smithville, Wilmington, Wrightsville and Lake Waccamaw, 

 North Carolina; Florence, Ashley Junction and Yemassee, South 

 Carolina; Macon, Savannah, Tybee Island, Groveland, Jesup, Billy's 

 Island, Homerville and Albany, Georgia, and South Jacksonville, 

 Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Hastings and La Grange, Florida. 



Orchelimum vulgare Harris. 



Chestertown, Maryland; Washington, D.C.; Falls Church, Dryden, 

 Norfolk and Wytheville, Virginia; Edenton, Raleigh, Blowing Rock, 

 Blantyre and Linville, North Carolina, and Thompson's Mills, Georgia. 



119 This specimen has been previously recorded, as the synonymous hoplomachus 

 Rehn and Hebard, bv Sherman and Brimley. 



120 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLI, pp. 11-83, (1915). 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Orchelimum laticauda Redtenbacher. 



Tolchester, Hyattsville, Plummer's Island and Montgomery County, 

 Maryland; Washington and Anolostan Island, D. C; Rosslyn and 

 Fredericksburg, Virginia; Weldon, Newbern and Lake Waccamaw, 

 North Carolina; Florence, South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Jesup 

 and Billy's Island, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jacksonville, 

 Ortega, Atlantic Beach and Sanford, Florida. 



Orchelimum minor Brunei-. 



Maryland opposite Plummer's Island; District of Columbia; 

 Raleigh and Sulphur Springs, North Carolina, and Thompson's Mills, 

 Hoschton and Thomasville, Georgia. 

 Orchelimum concinnum Seudder. 



Chestertown, Maryland; Oceanview and Virginia Beach, Virginia; 

 Wrightsville and Smith Island, North Carolina; Tybee Island, 

 Georgia, and Warrington and Fort Barrancas, Florida. 



Orchelimum fidicinium Rehn and Hebard. 



Oceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Carolina; coast of South 

 Carolina; Savannah, Tybee Island and Cumberland Island, Georgia. 



Orchelimum militare Rehn and Hebard. 



Winter Park and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence, 

 South Carolina; Jesup, Waycross, Jordan's on Billy's Island, Homer- 

 ville, Tifton and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic 

 Beach and Hastings, Florida. 



Orchelimum bradleyi Rehn and Hebard. 



Wilmington, North Carolina; Chase Prairie in Okeefenokee Swamp, 

 Georgia, and Jacksonville and Tallahassee, Florida. 



Orchelimum superbum Rehn and Hebard. 



Tappahannock, Essex County, Virginia, VII, 27 to 28, 1915, (H. Fox, in tidal 

 marsh on Scirpus americanus), 4 <?, [U. S. N. M.; A. N. S. P. and Fox Cln.]. 



Dr. Fox has kindly permitted us to include this record in the 

 present paper. The species was previously known only from south- 

 ern New Jersey. Two of the specimens have the outer genicular 

 lobe of the caudal femora bispinose. 



CONOCEPHALUS Thunberg. 



The American material of this genus in the collections before us 

 has also recently been fully treated by the present authors. 121 The 



121 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLI, pp. 155-224, (1915); ibid., pp. 225-290. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



localities represented in the collections here being considered, are 

 as follows: 



Conocephalus allardi (Caudell). 



Wytheville, Virginia, and Rabun County, Georgia. 



Conocephalus fasciatus fasoiatus (De Geer). 



Chestertown and Island Creek, Maryland; Washington, D. C; 

 Fredericksburg, Norfolk, Virginia Beach, Hickory, Appomattox and 

 Wytheville, Virginia; Eure, Selma, Winter Park, Lake Waccamaw, 

 Greensboro, Salisbury, Roan Mountain, Linville, Morganton, 

 Balsam, Governors Island and Topton, North Carolina; Denmark 

 and Yemassee, South Carolina; Trenton, Marietta, Atlanta, Augusta, 

 Savannah, Tybee Island, Isle of Hope, Jesup, St. Simon's Island, 

 Brunswick, Cumberland Island, Waycross, Billy's Island, Macon, 

 Wot point, Columbus, Albany and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Jack- 

 sonville, South Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, Live Oak, 

 Tallahassee, Marianna and Cedar Keys, Florida. 



In addition we have before us 1 9 , Daytona, Fla. XI, 11, 1911, 

 (G. P. Englehardt), [Bklyn. Inst, A. & S.]. 



Conocephalus brevipennis (Scudder). 



Plummer's Island, Cabin John and Marshall Hall, Maryland ; Wash- 

 ington and Anolostan Island, D. C; Rosslyn, Falls Church, Appo- 

 mattox, Wytheville, Cape Henry, Norfolk and Virginia Beach, Vir- 

 ginia; Fayetteville, Roan Mountain, Linville, Saluda, Governors 

 Island, Wilmington and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Spartan- 

 burg, Florence and Yemassee, South Carolina; Atlanta, Savannah, 

 Sandfly, Billy's Island and Homerville, Georgia, and South Jack- 

 sonville and Atlantic Beach, Florida. 



Conocephalus nemoralis (Scudder). 122 



Sharpsburg and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, D. C, 

 and Luray, Virginia. 



Conooephalus strictus (Scudder). 



Washington, D. C; Arlington, Falls Church, Norfolk, Virginia 

 Beach and Appomattox, Virginia, and Newbern, North Carolina, 



Conocephalus stictomerus Hehn and Hebard. 



Chestertown, Maryland; Churchland, Virginia, and Raleigh, North 

 Carolina. 



12 - A specimen from Bogota, Colombia, recently recorded as this species by 

 Bruner (Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 375, (1915)) is certainly not this form or is 

 erroneously labelled. 




266 



IEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



Conocephalus aigialus Rehn and Hebard. 



Cape Henry and Oceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Caro- 

 lina; Tybee Island, Georgia, and Jacksonville, South Jacksonville 

 and Pablo Beach, Florida. 



Conocephalus nigropleuroides (Fox). 



Oceanview, Virginia; Wrightsville, North Carolina; Cumberland 

 Island, Georgia, and Cedar Keys, Florida. 



Conocephalus spartinse (Fox). 



Oceanview and Virginia Beach, Virginia; Wrightsville, North 

 Carolina, and Tybee Island, Georgia. 



Conocephalus saltans (Scudder). 



Somerset Heights and Cabin John Run, Maryland; Washington, 

 D. C; Fayetteville, Wilmington, Winter Park, Wrightsville and Lake 

 Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence and Yemassee, South Caro- 

 lina; Atlanta, Stone Mountain and Spring Creek in Decatur County, 

 Georgia. 



Odontoxiphidium apterum (Morse). 



North Carolina. 

 Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (H.), 1 d 1 . 

 Winter Park, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 6 cf . 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (H.), 2 tf . 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



8o , ,4$,2 juv. 9. 

 Denmark, VIII, 15, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



6 c\89. 

 Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



13 tf", 6 9, 1 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 



Blue Ridge, VII, 25, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 juv. 9. 

 Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.), 19. 

 Sand Mountain, VIII, 25, 1903, 



(A. P. Morse), 3 d" , 1 juv. 9 . 

 Toccoa, VIII, 5, 1913, (H.), 19. 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.),7 c\ 19, 3 juv. 9. 

 Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 1913, (H.), 



1 cf . 

 Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1913, (H.), 19. 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



5 9,1 juv. d\ 2 juv. 9. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 9 <?, 4 9, 1 juv. d\ 3 juv. 9. 



Tifton, IX, 8, 1910, (J. C. Bradley), 

 4 d". 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 10 <?, 



6 9, 6 juv. 9. 



Bainbridge, IX, 3-7, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 cf . 

 Spring Creek, VII-VIII, 1912-13, 



(J. C. Bradley), 3 d\ 1 juv. 9 . 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.), 



2 d\ 19,4 juv. 9. 

 Savannah,VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



5 d\ 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 10 d\ 



59. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



21 cf, 16 9. 

 Groveland, VII, 28, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 cf. 

 Jesup, IX, 1, 1911*, (R. & H.), 7 d\ 



29. 

 Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, (H.), 10 d\ 



49. 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911. 



(R. &H.), 1 9. 

 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911. 



(R. &H.), 3 d\ 3 9. 

 Waycross, VIII, 11, 1903, (A.P.Morse), 



2^,2 juv. 9. 

 Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 juv d*. 

 Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (R. & 



H.), 3^,49. 

 Billy's Island, V, 16, 1915, (H.), 



1 juv. 9 ; VI, VII, IX, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 15 d\ 3 9. 

 Honey Island, VI, 1, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 adult. 

 Homerville, VIII, 27, 1911, (R. & H.), 



4 d\69, 2 juv.9. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



Florida. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24-25, 1911, 



. . n viit •,- ion ,p tw ^ <R. & H.), lOtf, 9 9. 



.Jacksonville. Mil, 2.), 1011, ( R. & H.), Pal) i Bl>a( . h LX f, K)13, (W T 



11 -. 20 9, 5 9 n.; XI, 3, 1911, Davis ) ) , ^ 19. 



U.I. Davis), 2 o\ 19. LiveO:ik,VlII,10, 1903, (A.P.Morse), 



South Jacksonville, IX, 7, 28, 1911, 5 d\ 6 9 ; VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



(W. '!'. Davis), 5 d", 4 9. 12 o", 7 9, 1 juv. 9. 



The material from the region about Jacksonville averages the 

 largest of any recorded above; there appears, however, to be little 

 size variation correlated with northern and southern distribution 

 in the present large series, and the specimens taken at Jacksonville 

 in November are as small as any examples we have seen. These 

 latter specimens, when compared with the largest from that locality, 

 give the following extremes of measurement: length of body, c? 

 9.9-14.3,9 12-16.3; length of ovipositor, 11.2-15.4 mm. 



The stridulation of this curious species is a very faint and inter- 

 mittent zip-zip-zee-zee-zee zip-zee-zee, etc. The males when stridu- 

 lating often climb high up in the undergrowth; we have frequently 

 found them three or four feet from the ground. 



Throughout the low country of the Carolinas, Georgia and Florida, 

 this is one of the most ubiquitous species in the undergrowth of the 

 pine woods and also on palmetto flats. At a number of localities the 

 insects were found particularly numerous about oak shoots in such 

 situations. In the high country of Georgia the species was found 

 scarce in level woods (Dalton), everywhere abundant in luxuriant 

 mountain vegetation of grasses, vines and oak sprouts under a forest 

 predominantly black-jack oak (Currahee Mountain), in a patch of 

 mint in a bunch-grass area under pines (on Stone Mountain) and 

 among oak shoots in undergrowth of mixed forest (Toccoa, vicinity 

 of Stone Mountain. Warm Springs). 



ATLANTIC-ITS Scudder. 



The species of this genus have recently been studied by the 

 authors. 123 A full treatment of the material from the region under 

 consideration is there presented. We here give the localities of the 

 material before us belonging to the eight species found in the area 

 at present treated. 



Atlanticus testaceus (Scudder). 



A. pachymerus of most authors. 



Plummer's Island, Cabin John Run and Glen Echo, Maryland; 

 Washington, D. C; Arlington, Virginia. 



123 Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, XLII, pp. 33-100, (1916). 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Atlanticus pachymerus (Burmeister). 



Greensboro, Raleigh, Goldsboro, Lake Ellis (Havelock) and 

 Southern Pines, North Carolina. 



Atlanticus davisi Rehn and Hebard. 



Meadow Mountain at 3,000 feet elevation, Conowingo, Laurel, 

 Beltsville and Glendale, Maryland; Rock Creek, D. C; Arlington, 

 Fairfax County, Great Falls, Falls Church, Green Dell Farm two miles 

 west of Pohick in Fairfax County, Orkney Springs, Stony Man 

 Mountain, Orange, Hot Springs and Addison, Virginia. 



Atlanticus monticola Davis. 



Washington County, Virginia; Linville, Black Mountains, Valley of 

 Black Mountains, Jones' Knob, Balsam Mountains and Lake Toxa- 

 way, North Carolina; Pinnacle Peak and Clayton, Georgia. 



Atlanticus americanus (Saussure). 

 A. dorsalis of most authors. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 D. C; Arlington, Clarendon, Falls Church, Seven Mile Ford, Orange 

 and Roanoke, Virginia; Greensboro, Sulphur Springs, Waynesville, 

 Lake Toxaway, Topton, Andrews and Murphy, North Carolina; 

 Clayton, Tuckoluge Creek, Rabun Bald, top of Pinnacle Peak, Tal- 

 lulah Falls, Sand Mountain, Jasper and Lost Mountain, Georgia. 



Atlanticus gibbosus Scudder. 



Florence and Magnolia, South Carolina; Currahee Mountain, Warm 

 Springs, Sandfly, Billy's Island and Spring Creek, Georgia; Crestview, 

 Lake City, Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach and Hastings, 

 Florida. 



Atlanticus dorsalis (Burmeister). 



Billy's Island and Thomasville, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida. 



Atlanticus calcaratus Rehn and Hebard. 



Billy's Island, Georgia, and Hastings, Florida. 



Camptonotus carolinensis (Gerstaecker). 



Delaware beaten from wild grape vines on 



Dover, (Miss Lillian Hall), 19, f°und in short-leaf pine woods), 



[A. N. S. P.]. l JUV - ^ • n 



Georgia. 



Virginia. Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 



Near Washington, D. C, X, 13, 18S3, Allard), 1 a\ [Hebard Cln.]. 



19, [Hebard Cln.]. Spring Creek, VI. 7-23, 1911, (J. C. 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.; Bradley), 1 juv. 9 . 



beaten from low herbage), 4 juv.c? . Florida. 



North Carolina, g t . Augustine, (C. W. Johnson), 1 d\ 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.; [A. N. S. P.]. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



Two consecutive instars arc represented in the four immature males 

 from Orange, both earlier than that exemplified by the Charlotte 

 specimen, which is in the instar preceding maturity. The records 

 from Sprint;' Creek and St. Augustine are the most southern known 

 for the species in the Atlantic coast States. 



Hadenoecus puteanus Scudder. 



'North Carolina. Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (II. A. 



Sunburst, laic May, 1912, (C. S. Allard), 2 cf, 69, 3 juv., [U. 9. 



Brimley), 2 iuv. 9, [Brimlev Cln.|. N. M. and Hebard Cln.]. 



Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. 



Georgia. C. Bradley), 2 o", [Cornell Univ.]. 

 Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 Davis), 2 juv. cf, 2 juv. 9. 



The immature females show that the dentations of the internal 

 valves of the ovipositor are not appreciably indicated until the adult 

 condition is reached. We have had before us for comparison a cotype 

 from North Carolina, received from Scudder by Bruner, in whose 

 series it was. 



The above Georgia localities in a measure connect up the two 

 previously known records of the species from the southern States, 

 i.e., North Carolina and Monticello, Mississippi. 



Ceuthophilus uhleri Scudder. 



Maryland. 



Cabin John Run, IX, 1911, (W. T. Clayton, VIII, IS, 1 juv. 9 , [Ga. 



Davis; trapped in molasses jar), State Cln.]. 



14 o" , 34 9 . Pinnacle Peak, VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. 



Georgia. Bradley), 1 juv. <?. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 

 Davis), 3 o 71 , 3 9 . 



We have examined authentic material of this species and of C. 

 blatchleyi Scudder and, apparently, the supposed differential features 

 are too variable for reliance. However, we do not care to synonymize 

 the latter name, as our material is not sufficiently conclusive to war- 

 rant such action at this time. 



This species varies greatly in size in both sexes, the extremes 

 (in millimeters) of undoubtedly adult material of both sexes from 



Cabin John Run being: 



^^99 



Length of pronotum i 8 6 5 5 .3 



Length of cephalic femur 6.5 8 6.5 7 



Length of caudal femur 14.3 18 14 14.5 



Length of caudal tibia 15.3 19.9 15.6 16.2 



Length of ovipositor 8.9 9.9 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The surface of the body is never polished in the male, always 

 being dull and at times almost velvety in appearance. In the 

 female sex this condition is present, but not as a rule, the majority 

 of the individuals of that sex having the surface weakly polished. 

 The males show a very appreciable amount of individual variation 

 in the lamellate development of the ventro-external margin of the 

 caudal femora, as well as in the number, disposition and size of the 

 spines on the same margin. 



The species is known to range from the vicinity of the city of 

 New York to northeastern Georgia; in addition to these given above, 

 the only definite record of its occurrence in the southeastern States 

 is that from Raleigh, North Carolina (Brimley). 



Ceuthophilus latibuli Scudder. 



1905. Ceuthophilus virgatipes Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1904, p. 798. [Thomasville, Georgia.] 



Bainbridge, Georgia, VII, 15-27, 1909, (J. C. Bradley), 1 tf. 



Clearwater, Florida, VI, 27, 1 iuv. 9 , [Cornell Univ.]. 



Jupiter, Fla., V, 2, 1903, (D. M. Castle), 1 cf , 10 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 



The species virgatipes, when described, was compared with secretus 

 and varicator, with which it has, however, no relationship. This 

 erroneous comparison was due to Scudder's key, which ran adults 

 to the vicinity of the above-mentioned species, while latibuli was 

 placed by him in another section, in which authentic material 

 examined by him at that time, and now before us, would not fall. 

 The type (male) of virgatipes is in the instar preceding maturity, 

 but the allotype (female) is fully adult. It is evident that the full 

 development of the caudal spurs and calcaria is not acquired until the 

 adult condition is reached, these being relatively shorter in the 

 nearly adult specimens than in the mature individuals. There is 

 also some individual variation in the length and development of the 

 spurs and in the length of the different calcaria. The more subdued 

 general coloration of the virgatipes material is in part due to dis- 

 coloration. The color pattern is seen to vary greatly in intensity 

 and consequently in the relative extent of the pale and dark areas. 



The species has been reported from "gopher" holes at Crescent 

 City and Enterprise, Florida, and from "Georgia, " in addition to the 

 localities mentioned above. 



Ceuthophilus gracilipes (Haldeman). 



1894. Ceuthophilus grandis Scudder, Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts and Sci., 



XXX, pp. 24, 38. [Chattanooga, Tennessee.] 

 1894. Ceuthophilus heros Scudder, ibid., pp. 26, 54. [North Carolina.] 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



Maryland. Davis; trapped in molasses jar), 



Garretl County, last week of July, H juv. 0*, 6 juv. 9. 



(W. Stone). 2 9, [A. N. S. P.]. North Carolina. 



Cabin John Run, IX, 1911, <VY. T. Black Mountain, IX, 6, 1 j\ [B. I.]. 

 Davis; trapped in molasses jar), 



7 o", 9 9, 3 juv. d*. Georgia. 



District of Columbia, VI, 1910,. (W. T. Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis; trapped in molasses jar), Davis), 2 o\ 4 juv. 9. 



1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9 • Wilson (Jap, Rabun County, VIII, 



... . . 22, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 3^,79. 



1 vrginm. Clayton, 2,000-3,000 feet, VI, 1909, 



Alexandria County, VI, 1910, (W. T. (W. T. Davis), 1 juv. 9 . 



We have carefully studied the original descriptions of the two 

 species here synonymized, and we are unable to separate them from 

 typical gracilipes by the presence of any invariable character or 

 characters. We have also had before us a paratype of hews, labelled 

 as such in Scudder's handwriting. 



The species gracilipes is a very variable one in certain features, 

 i.e., size, relative elongation and depth of the caudal femora and 

 spination of the same, character of the caudal tibiae and coloration. 

 The size variation, as seems to be the rule in the genus, is very con- 

 siderable, the extremes (in millimeters) of adults of both sexes from 

 Cabin John Run being: 



^^99 



Length of pronotum 5.1 6.7 6.2 7.2 



Length of cephalic femur 8.6 11.9 10 11.1 



Length of caudal femur 17.9 24.2 19.8 22.8 



Greatest depth of caudal femur 4.4 6.4 5 5.6 



Length of caudal tibia 20.6 26.4 22.2 25.2 



Length of ovipositor 10.2 14.2 



The caudal femora .seem to show some geographic correlation in 

 the variation of comparative depth to length, specimens from northern 

 Georgia showing the greatest relative depth, while more northern 

 individuals generally have the caudal femora distinctly more slender, 

 but this is by no means a rule, as northern specimens frequently have 

 as robust femora as more southern material. The male paratype of 

 heros from North Carolina has the caudal femora relatively quite 

 slender. The spination of the ventro-external margin of the caudal 

 femora of the male is extremely variable in character, ranging from 

 the relatively heavier, basally tumid, spines of typical grandis to the 

 weak and relative short type found in the paratype of heros. Between 

 those extremes we find all intermediates in the strength of the spines, 

 while the number of the same varies from as few as eight to as many 

 as sixteen. • 



The caudal tibia? are generally somewhat valgate proximad, but 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



are frequently straight. The exact thickness (i.e., section) of the 

 tibia varies somewhat, in one male from Blocton, Alabama (reported 

 by Scudder and determined by him as gracilipes, the locality, 

 however, being erroneously given as "Blocton, Florida"), being 

 greater than in any other individual seen. The depth of the general 

 body coloration varies appreciably, but there is generally an approxi- 

 mate uniformity in material from the same locality. As a rule, 

 northern adult material shows a more transverse disposition of the 

 color pattern and southern material a more longitudinal one. The 

 two tendencies are to be seen in many forms of this genus, sometimes 

 both the longitudinal and transverse being developed in the same 

 individual, in others one at the expense of the other and again a 

 general suffusion tones all to a deeper uniformity. The scalariform 

 pattern of the caudal femora is weaker in northern than in southern 

 specimens, as is also generally the case with the infuscation of the 

 distal femoral portions and the presence of the pale pregenicular 

 annulus on the caudal femora. These two latter features are rarely 

 indicated in northern adults, but distinct in all the southern specimens. 

 Immature specimens from all localities, however, have a decidedly 

 contrasted color pattern, made up of longitudinal and transverse 

 elements, much as in the southern States adults, with darkened 

 femoral apices and distinct pale pregenicular annuli on the caudal 

 femora. 



Ceuthophilus lapidicola (Burmeister). 



North Carolina. Sunburst, Haywood County, late May, 

 Grandfather Mountain, above 4,000 1912 » ( C - S - Brimley), 1 juv. tf, 



feet, VII, 21, 1904, (G. M. Bentley), 1 J uv - ? - [Brimley Cln.]. 



1 juv. d\ [N. C. State. Dept. Agr.]. Andrews, VIII, 19, 1904, (F. Sherman 

 Black Mountain, 19, [B. I.]. J 1 '-), 1 9 , [N. C. State Dept, Agr.]. 



We have also a pair of specimens labelled "North Carolina, 

 (Morrison)," determined and recorded as this species by Scudder. 

 At the present time it is not possible to determine the correctness 

 of Scudder's assignment of Burmeister's name to this species, the 

 description of which is quite inadequate to place positively the 

 name, but it seems quite probable that his action was correct. In 

 addition to this North Carolina material, we have before us quite a 

 few specimens from the northeastern States. Through the kindness 

 of Dr. E. M. Walker, we have been able to examine four male and 

 three female paratypes of that author's C. pallidipes, described from 

 five localities in Ontario. 124 This is the northern extreme of the 



124 Can. Ent., XXXVII, p. 115, pi. IV, figs. 2-2c, (1905). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



species for which we use the name lapidicola; the specimens 

 are much reduced in size, but inseparable from individuals from more 

 southern localities. The description of pallidipes, in its analysis of 

 the differential characters, is a decided aid to an understanding of 

 the species. 



The specimens recorded by Sherman and Brimley, 125 from Andrews 

 and Grandfather Mountain, North Carolina, as C. tenebrarum, belong 

 to this species, as an examination of the material shows. From 

 Andrews there is a small adult female, from Grandfather Mountain a 

 nearly adult quite small male minus the caudal limbs. The Southern 

 Pines record was based on a minute immature specimen which we 

 would not care to determine. At this writing we cannot make any 

 statement on the status of Scudder's tenebrarum. The Sunburst 

 pair recorded above is not quite mature, but clearly represents the 

 present species. 



The species was described from Virginia and South Carolina, but 

 previously we have had no exact record from the southeastern States. 



Ceuthophilus latens Scudder. 



Alexandria County, Virginia, VI, 1910 and 1914, (\Y. T. Davis; trapped in 

 molasses jar), 36 d\ 24 9 , 2 juv. 9 , [Davis Cln.]. 



We are using for comparison certain specimens from Ithaca, New 

 York, in the collection of Cornell University, and a female from Vigo 

 ( lounty, Indiana, in the Hebard Collection, which were determined as 

 this species by Scudder. The series here recorded is of considerable 

 interest, as it shows to what extent individual variation is present 

 in this striking and beautiful species. 



In size the usual amount of variation is present, the extremes 



(in millimeters) being: 



c? <? 9 9 



Length of pronotum 4.8 5.5 5 5.9 



Length of cephalic femur 5.8 6.8 5.4 6 



Length of caudal femur 12.9 14.7 12.1 14.9 



Length of caudal tibia 13.4 15.9 12.9 15.3 



Length of ovipositor 8.1 9.2 



The color pattern of this species is probably more uniformly 

 constant than in any other species of the genus of which we have 

 seen a considerable series. The broad pale dorsal line and the 

 broad bordering dark lines are always indicated on the thoracic 

 segments and their variation in width is relatively small, while the 

 abdominal markings and the clouding of the caudal femora are 

 characteristic of this species and lapidicola, and vary only in depth. 



125 E?it. News, XXII, p. 311, (1911). 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The pale base color is more orange-ochraceous in some individuals 

 than in others, the extremes being pale clay color and burnt sienna. 



This species and lapidicola are very closely related, the females 

 particularly being extremely hard to separate. Of the few differ- 

 ences shared by both sexes may be mentioned the narrower medio- 

 longitudinal pale bar in lapidicola, which also has a greater irregularity 

 of its margins, and a frequent breaking up of the dark lateral bars. 

 The males of the two species can, in addition, be separated by the 

 more robust caudal femora in the present species and the form of the 

 supra-anal plate, which has the distal margin submembranous in 

 latens and chitinous in lapidicola, the plate also more elevated disto- 

 dorsad in lapidicola than in latens. 



The immature specimens of latens listed above have the thoracic 

 pattern essentially as in the adults. 



Ceuthophilus sallei Scudder. 



De Funiak Springs, 126 Florida, 1 d\ 1 9, 1 juv. 9, [Cornell Univ.]. 



We have compared these specimens with a paratype from New 

 Orleans and find no important or constant differences. The color 

 pattern is seen to vary in intensity to such a degree that occasionally 

 (in the adult female) the thoracic pattern is obsolete, although the 

 abdominal section is weakly indicated and the femoral pattern 

 typical, but not very decided. 



The authors' C. peninsularis, 127 from southern Florida, is a close 

 relative of this species, but just how close cannot be determined 

 until the female sex of the more recent form is known. 



The distribution of the species is here extended somewhat to the 

 eastward of the type and only previously known locality — New Orleans. 



Ceuthophilus spinosus Scudder. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, IX, 1911, Arlington, Virginia, VII, 9, 1914, (H.; 



(W. T. Davis; trapped in molasses taken at night with light), 1 9 . 



jar), 19, [Davis Cln.]. Raleigh, North Carolina, II, 9, 1904, 



Washington, D. C, IV, 20, 19, (Brimley; under log in pine woods), 



[Hebard Cln. ex Bruner.]. 128 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 District of Columbia, VI, 1910, (W. T. . Atlanta, Georgia, VIII, IS, 1912, 3 9 , 



Davis; trapped in molasses jar), [Ga. State Cln.]. 



3 d\ 2 9, [Davis Cln.]. 



120 These specimens are merely labelled "Funiak, Fla. " but as there seems 

 to be no locality of that name, we feel little doubt of their reference to the well- 

 knOwn locality given above. 



127 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1914, p. 408, (1914). 



128 In Scudder's original series of C. neglectus, a specimen from Washington, 

 D. C, in the Bruner Collection, is listed. This record refers to the above speci- 

 men, which can be separated from the other paratypic females of neglectus from 

 the Bruner Collection, by the more slender caudal femora and the fewer (four 

 instead of five) teeth on the internal valves of the ovipositor. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



We have no authentic material of this striking species and our 



determination rests on the agreement of our very extensive series 

 with the original description. We have, in addition to the specimens 

 here listed, larger series from the northeastern States, which We 

 will treat in detail at a later date. 



This species appears to be typical of a distinctive group of the 

 genus, characterized in-the male sex by the broad linguiform produced 

 supra-anal plate. The form of the subgenital plate, which bears a 

 cordiform callose pattern, is quite peculiar, while the general type 

 of the caudal femora is different from that of any species of the 

 genus found in the eastern States with which we are acquainted. 

 There is a slight development of the fastigial ridge, less decided, 

 however, than in the uhleri group. The internal valves of the 

 ovipositor bear but four teeth, which are strongly developed, instead 

 of the more usual five or six teeth. The distal extremity of the 

 external ovipositor valves is obliquely truncate, with the spiniform 

 dorso-distal point very well developed and directed at an angle of 

 about fifty degrees to the longitudinal axis of the ovipositor. 



There is a great amount of individual variation in size and robust- 

 ness of the whole body, and in the male this variational feature of 

 the caudal femora is very pronounced, and rather disproportionately 

 so. The number of teeth on the ventro-external margin of the 

 caudal femora and the character of the same are quite variable in the 

 male sex.. At a later date we intend to give additional information 

 on these points from the other material we now have. 



In the southern States the species appears to be one of the Piedmont 

 region, the lowest elevation from which we have definite records 

 being Raleigh and Southern Pines (Sherman and Brimley), North 

 Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia. 



Ceuthophilus neglectus Scudder. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, IX, 1911, Alexandria County, Virginia, VI, 1910, 



(\V. T. Davis; trapped in molasses (W. T. Davis; trapped in molasses 



jar), 34 <?, 38 9, [Davis Cln.]. jar), 51 d>, 73 9, 9 juv. ef , [Davis 



District of Columbia, VI, 1910, (W. T. Cln.]. 



Davis; trapped in molasses jar), Orange, Ya., VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



22 & , 33 9, [Davis Cln.]. 3 juv. <?. 



We have before us three male and three female paratypes of 

 neglectus, one of the females of which, as we have already shown, 

 belongs to spinosus. We have also male and female paratypes of 

 terrestris, these being the pair recorded by Scudder from Chateaugay 

 Lake, Adirondack Mountains, New York. As stated by Walker, 129 



™Can. Ent., XXXVII, p. 118, (1905). 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



certain of the specimens considered to be terrestris by Scudder, in his 

 description of the latter, are really neglectus. This is true of the two 

 specimens from Chateaugay Lake, which, while quite small, are dis- 

 tinctly neglectus. Just how much of the original series of terrestris 

 belongs to neglectus we cannot say at the present writing, but, as 

 Walker has shown, the few adult males in the Scudder Collection 

 represent the latter species. 



As Walker has said in explanation of his figure of the subgenital 

 plate of the male of this species, 13u the type there shown is that of the 

 immature male. This portion of the adult male is different, having 

 no distal projections and with the free margin arcuato-truncate or 

 weakly emarginate, the plate entire or undivided, a median fold or 

 sulcus frequently present distad, but this is not a true division of 

 the plate. The supra-anal plate of the adult is elongate, trigonal- 

 linguiform, taken with the shape of the adjacent dorsal abdominal 

 segments and the subgenital plate being characteristic of the species. 



The ovipositor of the female bears five, or more rarely six, teeth on 

 the internal valves. 131 The individual size variation in adults of the 

 species is very great, so much so that the extremes might not be 

 recognized as the same species, as the larger specimens, by their 

 bulkiness, have a different general appearance. In the Alexandria 

 County series the extremes in size (in millimeters) are as follows : 



c? d* 9 9 



Length of pronotum 4.8 6 4.9 6 



Length of cephalic femur 5.6 6.9 5 5.6 



Length of caudal femur 12.5 16 10.4 13.6 



Length of caudal tibia 12.8 15.5 10.8 13.4 



Length of ovipositor 5.9 7.4 



The coloration is quite variable in the depth of the pattern, which 

 in the paler specimens has a decided medio-longitudinal pale line 

 on the thoracic segments, and a closely tessellate abdomen, 

 which in the darker individuals has the median line subobsolete 

 and the tessellations reduced in number, although but little in inten- 

 sity. The caudal femoral scalariform pattern, which is generally 

 moderately indicated, frequently strongly marked, is relatively poor 

 in contrast in the darker individuals. 



™Can. Ent.', XXXVII, p. 117, pi. V, figs. 3&-3c, (1905). 



131 In very rare instances, only two females from Alexandria County, Virginia, 

 out of one hundred and seventy-five examined for this character, we find but 

 four teeth present on these valves, but in these individuals the usual two distal 

 teeth are fused and the form of the caudal femora and margins of the same 

 correctly associate the specimens. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



The species appears to be one of the more abundant, if not the 

 most abundant, of the genus found in the eastern United States. 

 In the southeastern States it has, as far as known, a very limited 

 distribution, not having been taken south of Orange, Virginia. 



GRYLLIDiE. 



Gryllotalpa hexadactyla Perty. 



1838. Gr[yUotalpa] borealis Burmeister, Handb. Entom., II, Abth. II, pt. 1, 

 p. 740. [North America.] 



Maryland. Marietta, VII, 27, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



Bohemia Bridge, Cecil County, V, 30, } 9 - ,„ ,. Iir rtft ,„„ 



L914, (II. W . Fowler), 3 9, [A. X. Atlanta, \ I, 26 to VIII, 28, 190«.) to 



S. P.], brachypterous. 1912 > 3 9,1 juv., [Ga. State Cln.], 



2 brachypterous. 



District oj Columbia. Billy's Island, Okeefenokee Swamp, 



Washington, IV, 20, 19, [Hebard VI, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 19, 



Cln.], brachypterous. brachypterous. 



Georgia. Florida. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. Enterprise, IV, 17, (P. Laurent), 1 d\ 



Davis), 3 juv. 132 [Hebard Cln.], brachypterous. 



Lavender, 1 cr, [Ga. State Cln.], Lake City, 1 9, [Hebard Cln.], bra- 



brachypterous. chypterous. 



After careful examination of material from many localities in 

 America, extending from the United States southward to the southern 

 borders of tropical South America, we find that there is no valid 

 ground for separating Burmeister's borealis from hexadactyla of 

 Perty, described in 1832 from Almas Geraes, Brazil. 133 Few compari- 

 sons are to be found between these supposedly distinct forms, Saus- 

 sure and Scudder giving as differences the somewhat smaller size of 

 hexadactyla and the more rounded projection at the base of the second 

 lateral dactyl of the cephalic tibise. The series before us show that 

 the insect attains its greatest size development in the United States, 

 but that little constancy exists is also demonstrated, as specimens 

 from the same locality in several cases show almost the maximum 

 difference in size found in the entire series before us, which numbers 

 considerably over one hundred specimens. The rounded chitinous 

 projection at the base of the second lateral dactyl of the cephalic 

 tibise is normally rounded, but is often worn down to a more or less 

 angulate condition and is naturally valueless as a character in this 

 respect. No other differences exist between North and South 

 American examples, and borealis as a result falls into the above 



132 Two of these individuals are in the very early stages and the smallest of 

 these has three, instead of four, tibial dactyls. In three other specimens in the 

 same instar before us, this remarkable feature is also found. 



133 Delect. Ann,,. Art. Brasil., p. 119, pi. 23, fig. 9, (1830-34). 



19 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



synonymy. Previously the following names have been found to 

 be synonyms of borealis: americana Harris, 1835; brevipennis Ser- 

 ville, 1839; longipennis Scudder, 1862, and Columbia Scudder, 1869. 



In the present species some variation is shown in the shape of the 

 ocelli and in the tegminal venation. 



Material from Florida and southern Georgia averages somewhat 

 smaller than material from more northern points; the smallest adult 

 specimen of the species we have ever seen is that from Billy's Island, 

 Georgia, the measurements of which are : length of body 20.4, of pro- 

 notum 7.2, of tegmen 6.4, of caudal femur 6, and greatest width of 

 pronotum 5.7 mm. 



Females of the species have been taken much more frequently 

 than males and the brachypterous condition is more frequently 

 found in both sexes in the region at present under consideration. 



Scapteriscus vicinus Scudder. PI. XIV, figs. 4, 5, 0, 7. 



1869. Scapteriscus agassizii Scudder, Mem. Peabody Acad. Sci., I, p. 13. 

 [Switzerland (introduced from Central America?).] 



Georgia. Brunswick, II, 5, 1903, (S. W. Good- 



Waycross, X, 20, 1914, (W. Tatum, year), 3 cf, 1 9,1 juv [IT. S. N. M. 



Jr.), 1 juv., [U. S. N. M.l. and Hebard Cln ]; IV 18 1912, 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.; in sandy [W. V. Reed), 1 <?, 4 9, [U. S. 



soil in garden, associated with f- M.J; XI, 1907, 1 d\ [Ga. State 



S. acletus, but very scarce), 2 c?, 2 9. ^*'-, , T1 a vttt qi 1ft n 



St. Simon's Island, IV, 22 to IX, 8, Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



1909 to 1911, (J. C. Bradley), 3 tf, (H.; under log on strand) 1 juv 



4 9,4 juv.; (W. V. Reed), 9^,39, ^ hlt * °, ak > *&> a 1 ?£*i& S " Barn " 



1 juv., [Hebard Cln.]. well )> 1 <?> 1 U - & - N - M -l 

 St. Simon's, St. Simon's Island, III, 18, 

 1912, (W. V. Reed), 6 9 , [U.S. N. M.J. 



After careful consideration of very large series, representing every 

 species of the present genus, we are satisfied that the species found 

 abundantly in the southeastern United States, the West Indies 

 and portions of South America, and which has beeli frequently 

 recorded as S. didactylus, represents instead vicinus of Scudder. This 

 species is very closely related to didactylus of Latreille (described 

 from Surinam and found elsewhere in South America and northward 

 to Costa Rica), but is somewhat heavier, with the width of the 

 pronotum distinctly greater in proportion to its length and with 

 the basal width between the tibial dactyls averaging somewhat less. 

 The species is, however, not nearly as distinct as Scudder believed, 

 for the characters of the but little dissimilar ocelli, slightly different 

 terminal tarsal joints of the caudal tibiae and other differences which 

 he gives in the original description are practically valueless. 



The species, agassizii, described by that author on the following 




1!»16.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



page of the same work, is a synonym of vicinus, based on minor 

 differences in these characters, which in each of the many series 

 before us show some such slight differentiation. 



This species is a serious pest in portions of the State of Georgia; 

 at Darien, in 1906, the insects destroyed a great portion of the grass 

 on the golf course. 134 



Scapteriscus acletus 135 new species. PI. XIV, figs. 8, 9, 10, 11. 



Closely related to S. mexicanus, 136 differing 137 in the shorter dactyls 

 and spines of the limbs, normally fewer spines of the dorso-internal 

 margins of the caudal tibiae, 138 shorter limbs and much less com- 

 pressed terminal tarsal joints of the caudal tibiae (in this species no 

 wider than the caudal metatarsus, in mexicanus distinctly wider with 

 dorsal portion decidedly compressed). The present species and 

 mexicanus agree, however, in the wide separation of the tibial dactyls, 

 the elongate pronotum and decidedly elongate lateral ocelli, which 

 characters readily distinguish them from S. vicinus, from which 

 species the present insect also differs greatly in color pattern of the 

 pronotum, general coloration in life and narrower terminal tarsal 

 joint of caudal tibiae. 



Considering S. abbreviatus, the remaining species of the genus 

 found within the boundaries of the United States, we find it to be 

 readily distinguishable from vicinus, acletus and mexicanus by the 

 distinctive coloration (which gives the insect a strongly mottled 

 appearance), small round lateral ocelli arid extremely reduced teg- 

 mina and wings. The elongate and widely separated tibial dactyls, 

 and spatula with distal portion of ventral margin briefly chitinous 

 and with disto-ventral angle nearly rectangulate and sharply rounded 

 in abbreviatus, serve further to indicate that in linear arrangement 

 vicinus comes first, followed by didactylus, acletus, mexicanus and 

 abbreviatus. 



134 Noted by Hebard, Ent. News, XX, p. 179, (1909). 



us p rom a = not, and Kfa/rbc = welcome; in allusion to the destructive habits 

 of this insect. 



136 Described by Burmeister, Handb. Entom., II, Abth. II, pt. 1, p. 740, (1838). 

 [Alvafado, Mexico.] 



137 These comparisons are made with an apparently typical female of mexicanus 

 (pi. XIV, figs. 12, 13, 14 and 15) from Durango, Mexico, in the Hebard Collection, 

 (lie measurements (in millimeters) of which are: length of body, 36, of pronotum 



11.4, of tegmen 19.2, of wing 26.6, of longest tibial dactyl 5.1, of Caudal femur 



12.5, of terminal tarsal joint of caudal tibia 3.4; width of pronotum 8.3, of 

 terminal tarsal joint of caudal tibia 1.6. Two other similar females are before 

 us bearing only the data "Mexico." 



133 In mexicanus these spines are described as 5-5 in number, and this is true 

 for the specimens of that species before us. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Type: c? ; Hebardville, Ware County, Georgia. May 15, 1915. 

 (M. Hebarcl; in garden.) [Hebard Collection, Type No. 406.] 



Description of Type. — Size medium, form rather slender. Head 

 with lateral ocelli over twice as long as broad, in direction convergent 

 meso-distad, separated at nearest point by a space twice the length 

 of one ocellus. Eyes somewhat more elongate than in vicinus. 

 Tegmina similar to vicinus, but with veins not as heavy and cross- 

 veinlets fewer. Wings reaching slightly beyond apex of abdomen. 

 Limb proportions much as in vicinus. Dactyls of cephalic tibiae 

 separated by a space equal to basal width of one of these dactyls. 

 Spatula with distal half of ventral margin chitinous, straight, the 

 disto-ventral angle nearly rectangulate and sharply rounded. 

 Median tibiae armed interno-distad with four heavy spurs. Caudal 

 tibiae with ventro-internal margins each bearing four long spines, 

 the last situated very slightly proximad of the three long distal 

 spurs, disto-external margin armed with three short spurs, the dorsal 

 widely separated from the other two. Distal joint of caudal tarsus 

 slender, no wider than metatarsus, with dorsal margin not noticeably 

 compressed. Coloration distinctive. 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as type. [Hebard Collection.] 



Description of Allotype. — Similar to type in characters common to 

 both sexes. Tegmina similar to vicinus, but, as in male, with veins 

 not as heavy and cross-veinlets fewer. Wings reaching slightly 

 beyond apex of abdomen. 



In addition to the type and allotype, we have before us a series 

 bearing the same data and material taken at the same locality from 

 May 15 to 31, 1915, by William Walker; these specimens, 26 c? , 

 25 9 , may be considered paratypes. 



This paratypic series shows that the species exhibits considerable 

 size variation, the average of the majority of specimens, however, 

 approximates the types in this respect. Both intensive and recessive 

 color patterns are developed, and the tegminal veins and veinlets 

 are sometimes heavier than in the typical condition. Decided 

 uniformity is found in the shape of the lateral ocelli, length and 

 separation of the tibial dactyls and form of distal joint of caudal 

 tarsus. In eighty uninjured specimens the number of spines of the 

 dorso-internal margins of the caudal tibiae are as follows: 



Number of spines 3-4 4-4 4-5 5-5 



Number of specimens 1 66 8 5 



In one specimen having 5-5 spines, one of these spines is bifurcate. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Slight differences in ocellar form, occasional appearance of an 

 accessory spine on one or both of the dorso-internal margins of the 

 caudal tibia? and slight differences in the separation of the tibial 

 dactyls and in the width of the distal joint of the caudal tarsus, 

 cannot be used as features to separate species of this genus, as dis- 

 cussed above in the treatment of vicinus. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



c£_ 9_ 



type. Paratypes. Allotype. Paratypes. 



Length of body 28.7 26.4-34.4 29.7 26.5-35.5 



Length of pronotum 9.3 8.8-11.3 9.3 8.5-10.3 



Width of pronotum 189 7.3 6.4-8.9 7.1 6.6-8.3 



Length of tegmen 14.7 14. 6-17. 8 15.2 15-19.2 



Length of win- 19.6 19.6-24.3 21.7 20.5-26.1 



Longest tibial dactyl 3.6 3.3-4 3.1 140 3.1-4.1 



Length of caudal femur . 10.3 10-11.7 10.6 10.2-12 

 Length of terminal tarsal joint of 



caudal tibia 2.6 2.3-2.7 2.7 2.6-2.8 



Width of same 8 .7-1 .8 .8-. 9 



Coloration. — Normal condition (type, allotype). General colora- 

 tion pinkish buff. Head with occiput including raised portion of 

 inter-ocular space blackish brown, a brief space of the same color 

 back of the eyes, but separated from them by a narrow interval of the 

 pale general coloration. Pronotum with dorsum marked with an 

 oval of blackish brown, this interrupted cephalad and mesad by 

 rounded incursions from each side of the general pinkish buff colora- 

 tion, these cephalic indentations weakly connected, the margins of the 

 dark area concave in their caudal fifth. Tegmina and wings buffy 

 with veins darker. Caudal femora of general coloration, but with 

 all except the proximal fourth of dorso-external portion suffused with 

 a darker shade. Abdomen dark above, pale below (in life shining 

 grayish below, contrasting strongly with vicinus, which in life has this 

 portion of the body shining cinnamon buff). 



An intensive coloration is found in numerous specimens in which 

 the darker markings are all deeper and more extensive, the whole 

 dorsal surface of the pronotum being blackish brown, with the 

 exception of four small pale spots in apposition to the rounded 

 incursions of paler coloration as found in the normal condition. 



139 Owing to the impossibility of determining the lateral margins of the dorsum 

 of the pronotum in the present genus, this measurement indicates the absolute 

 width of the pronotum. 



140 The minimum measurements for these dactyls represent specimens in 

 which these claws are worn down and blunted by much use. This is true of the 

 present specimen. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



All gradations are found, however, to a recessive condition in which 

 the dark markings are much reduced, the incursions of pale coloration 

 being considerable, leaving only narrow projections of the dark 

 color laterad between them. 



The large series of immature examples taken with the typical 

 series are, with few exceptions, in the instars immediately preceding 

 maturity. In these the coloration averages slightly more recessive 

 than in the adults. 



Biological Notes. — At the type locality the species was found in 

 great numbers in sandy soil. Tunnels recently made were everywhere 

 apparent. Digging into these and the flooding of such areas revealed 

 few examples, but a row of lettuce in a dying condition was inves- 

 tigated, and beneath the wilted leaves, resting on the ground at the 

 base of these plants, many specimens were found. The roots of the 

 lettuce and other garden plants, such as tomatoes and beets, were 

 found to have been extensively damaged by the present insect, in 

 many cases all but the main tap root having been completely 

 devoured. 



When disturbed individuals always sought, if possible, to escape 

 under the ground, disappearing in the sandy soil with astonishing 

 rapidity; on the surface they could run very nimbly, occasionally 

 giving a short hop, but not attempting to fly. There is no doubt, 

 however, that both this species and vicinus can fly vigorously, and 

 during migrations, which undoubtedly occur, probably resort almost 

 wholly to this method of locomotion. 



At night the rich gutteral "grrrrr" of the insect could be heard on 

 all sides, but no individuals were found on the exposed surface of 

 the ground. 



Specimens Examined: 83; 28 males, 30 females and 25 immature 

 individuals. 



Jesup, Georgia, V, 15, 1915, (H.; in burrow under board in grassy 

 field), 19; X, 1, 1910, 1 9 , [Ga. State Cln.j. 



Hebardville, Ga., V, 15, 1915, (H.; in sandy soil of garden), 19 cf , 

 18 9, type, allotype, paratypes, 13 juv.; V, 15 to 31, 1915, (Wm. 

 Walker), 7 & , 99, paratypes, 12 juv., [all Hebard Cln.]. 



White Oak, Ga., Ill, 23 and IV, 1904, (A. S. Barnwell), 2^,19, 

 [U. S. N. M. and Hebard Cln.]. 



Scapteriscus abbreviates Scudder. PI. XIV, figs. 16, 17, 18, 19. 



White Oak, Georgia, IV, 1904, (A. S. Lemon City, Florida, (E. J. Brown), 

 Barnwell), 1 tf, 1 9, [U. S. N. M. 2 juv., [U. S. N. M.]. 



and Hebard Cln.]. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



The specimens from Georgia, in addition to three from the same 

 locality previously recorded by us, 141 constitute the only record of 

 this species from the United States outside of extreme southern 

 Florida. 



Tridactylus apicalis Say. 



1862. T[ridactylus] terminally Scudder, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., VII, p. 425. 

 [Cambridge, Massachusetts; Maryland; southern Illinois.] 



District of Columbia. Georgia. 



Washington. IX. 1NN3, 1 o\ [Hebard Bainbridgc, IX, 17 to X, 19, 1910, 



Cln.l. (J. C. Bradley), 1 cr. 



Rock Creek, 1 9, [U. S. N. M.]. Spring Creek, Decatur County, V. 7 



T/ . . ■ to 23, 1911, 19,3 juv.; VII, 16 to 



ygima. 29, 1912, 74 <?, 319, 5 juv.; VIII, 



Stafford ( ounty opposite Fredericks- 26 to 28, 1913, Id", 19, (all J. C. 



burg, \ II, 20, 1913, (R. & H. ; wetsand Bradley). 

 near Rappahannock River), 3 juv. 



We are convinced, after study of the literature and all of the 

 material in our collections, that tertninalis of Scudder is an absolute 

 synonym of the present species, based solely upon large specimens 

 of pale coloration. We are also satisfied that Scudder has correctly 

 synonymized under these two names the following: tibialis Guerin, 

 1844; Xya mixta Haldemann, 1853; iUinoiensis Thomas, 1863; 

 fissipes Saussure, 1874, and incertus Saussure, 1896. The great 

 variation in the form of the cephalic limbs in the males of the species 

 discussed by Morse has in part caused this multiplicity of synonyms. 



The large series of males before us from Spring Creek, Georgia, 

 shows the same variability of the cephalic tibiae which Morse has re- 

 marked, and we find every gradation between the extremes; roughly 

 grouped, sixteen have the tibiae of the normal ( 9 ) form, eight have 

 them very slightly cleft; sixteen have them decidedly and thirty-five 

 very strongly bifurcate. A further interesting feature is apparent in 

 this series, for with scarcely an exception the specimens having these 

 tibiae least specialized are the smallest (averaging in length 7 mm.), 

 and throughout the series a distinct size increase accompanies the 

 greater specialization of the tibiae to its maximum development 

 (these specimens averaging in length 9 mm.). 



When compared with the males, the females of this series are found 

 to average noticeably paler in general coloration. 



The material before us shows that the wings normally reach a 

 little beyond the apex of the abdomen; occasional series have the 

 wings falling slightly short of this point. 



"JProc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1912, p. 272, (1912). 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Ellipes minuta (Scudder). 



District of Columbia. South Carolina. 



Washington, (Aldrich), 3 9, [Hebard -Spartanburg , VIII, 10, 1903, (A. P. 

 Cin l Morse), 1 adult, 2 juv. 



Manning, V, 30, 1914, (W. Stone), 

 Virginia. 1^,19, [A. N. S. P.]. 



Stafford County opposite Fredericks- Georgia 



burg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & H.; wet Burt 18QQ f y 21 ml (J c 



sand near Rappahannock River), Bradley) 19 



1 d\ 2 9,ljuv. Rabun County,' VII, 1910, (W. T. 



North Carolina. JaSer?VII, 9 25, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



Weldon; VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.; on 1 adult. 



ground in heavy forest near stream), Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 



1 9 . 1913, (H.; few on damp sand at edge 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.; of bog at base of cliff), 1 juv. 



damp ground in short-leaf pine Waycross, VIII, 11, 1903, (A. P. 



woods), 1 c?. . Morse), 1 adult. 



Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.; Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.; 



on wet and almost bare clayey swampy spot on edge of Flint River), 



ground), 2 d\ 5 9 , 4 juv. 1 9 . 



Balsam, VII, 23, 1903, (A. P. Morse), Spring Creek, Decatur County, VII, 



2 adults. 16 to 29, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 2 d*. 



We are certain that Scudder has correctly synonymized Tridactylus 

 histrionicus and T. histrio of Saussure, 1896, under the present species. 

 All of the large series before us show the presence or absence of minute 

 subapical natatory lamellae on the dorsal margins of the caudal 

 tibiae to be due to individual variation. The maximum number of 

 these in the present species is two on the external and one on the 

 internal margin, a feature noted by Saussure in his description of 

 histrio, while his histrionicus represents material lacking these 

 rather rudimentary appendages ; minuta was at that time overlooked 

 by Saussure. 



But one specimen in the series here recorded, from Spring Creek, 

 Georgia, is macropterous; the larger series before us show occasional 

 specimens in this condition, some which are semi-macropterous, 

 while many, as in the present series, have the wings wholly concealed 

 by the tegmina. 



This insect is found on wet sand near water, often in great numbers, 

 over the entire territory at present under consideration. 



Myrmecophila pergandei Bruner. 



Retreat, North Carolina, VIII, 6, (H. 1 d\ 1 9 . 



G. Hubbard), 1 d% [C. B. N. M.]. Clayton, Georgia, VI, 1909, (W. T. 



Balsam, N. C, VII, 23, 1903, (A. P. Davis), 1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . 



Morse), Id",! juv. 9 ; 4,500 to 5,700 Crescent City, Florida, 1 juv d\ [He- 

 feet, VII, 24, 1903, (A. P. Morse), bard Cln.]. 



This species was described from the "Atlantic States, from Mary- 

 land southward," it has since been recorded from Washington, 

 District of Columbia, and Georgia, over the area here considered. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES- OF PHILADELPHIA. 



285 



The study of the present genus by Schimmer 142 is by far the most 

 complete work on the subject to be found in the literature. 



Paratypes from Washington were taken with Cremastogaster litieo- 

 lata Say and Formica pallidefulva Latreille. The specimens from 

 Balsam were with Camponotus herculeanus Linnaeus subspecies pennsyl- 

 vanicus De Geer, and those from Clayton with Cremastogaster lineolata 

 Say variety near pilosa Pergande. 143 



Cryptoptilum antillarum (Redtenbacher). 



Smith Carolina. 

 Isle of Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (It.; 

 beaten from bayberrv, Myrica cerif- 

 era), Id 1 , 19,2 juv. 9. 



Georgia. 



.Montgomery, VII, 27, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 d\ 



Tybee Island, VII, 26, 1913, (J. C. 



Bradley), 11 d\ 19, 1 juv. cf, 



1 juv. 9 . 

 St. Simon's Island, VIII, 5, 1912, 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 tf. 

 Billy's Island, V, 28 to VII, 2, 1912. 



(J. C. Bradley), 1 <?. 



This species has been fully treated by the present authors; 144 in 

 that paper the records from Miami (under bark of fallen trees) and 

 Lake Worth (on sand), Florida, 145 were overlooked. 



Cryptoptilum trigonipalpum Rohn and Hebard. 



Virginia. 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 undergrowth in heavy oak woods), 

 1 juv. cf. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. 9 . 



South Carolina. 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (H.; beaten 

 from heavy green undergrowth in 

 short-leaf pine forest on hillside), 

 1 juv. 9 . 



Georgia. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 

 1913, (R. & H.; beaten from tangled 

 undergrowth of short-leaf pine 

 forest), 2 juv. 9 . 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 beaten from undergrowth near 

 stream in flat short-leaf pine woods), 



3 juv. 9 . 

 Savannah, VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 d\ 39. 

 Warm Springs, 850 to 1,200 feet, VII. 

 9 and 10, 1913, (R.), 2 juv. <?, 



4 juv. 9 . 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 rather common in tangles of small 

 bushes and vines in open forest 

 along banks of Flint River), 

 4 juv. d\ 6 juv. 9 . 



Spring Creek, VIII, 26 to 28, 1913, 

 (J. C. Bradlev), 3 cf, 19. 



Billy's Island, IX, 1 to 5, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 2 9 . 



The known distribution of the present species is carried con- 

 siderably inland, westward and northward, by the above records. 



u "-ZeiUchr. Wiwnzch. Zool., XCIII, pp. 409-534, (1909). 



143 The identifications of the ant hosts given here have been most kindly fur- 

 nished by Professor Wm. M. Wheeler. Bruner. with the original description of 

 the present species, gives the ant hosts as Camponotus pennsylwnicus, Formica 

 rufa and Cremasbmjaster lineolata. His Formica rufa determination is based on 

 the specimens correctly recorded above as Formica pallidefulva. 



'"Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phii.a., 1912, pp. 190-201, figs. 5-8, (1912). 



Mrs. A. T. Slosson, as MogosopUstus slossoni. Ent. News, XII, p. 11. 

 1901). 




286 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



The insect reaches maturity about the middle of August over a large 

 portion of its range. 



Cycloptilum squamosum Scudder. 



North Carolina. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. 9 • 



South Carolina. 



Spartanburg, VIII, 6, 1913, (H.; 

 undergrowth of mixed deciduous and 

 pine forest), 2 juv. 9 ■ 



Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 immature individuals very abundant 

 among pine needles in long-leaf 

 pine woods), 1 jiiv. d", 2 juv. 9 . 



Georgia. 



Toccoa, 1,094 feet, VIII, 4-5, 1913, 

 (H.), 2 juv. 9 . 



Jasper, 1,550 feet, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.; 

 undergrowth of pine woods), 1 

 juv. 9. 



Vicinity of Stone Mountain, VIII, 3, 

 1913, (R. & H.; beaten from tangled 

 undergrowth of pine forest), 1 

 juv. cf. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 few immature individuals in oak 

 leaves on edge of oak and short -leaf 

 pine woods), 2 juv. d", 1 juv. 9 . 



Warm Springs, 850 to 1,200 feet, VIII, 

 9-10, 1913, (R.; beaten in pine and 

 oak woods), 1 d" , 3 9 , 2 juv. 9 . 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. dV 



This species has been fully treated by the present authors, 146, 

 it is now known to range northward to East Marion, Long Island,. 

 New York. 147 



NEMOBIUS Serville. 



The species of the present genus found in North America north 

 of the Isthmus of Panama have been fully treated by the present 

 junior author. 148 In that paper nearly all of the material in the 

 collections now before us, taken previous to 1913, was recorded. 

 The localities for these series are first given below, then the subse- 

 quent records are given in full with whatever comments appear of 

 interest. 



Nemobius fasciatus fasciatus (De Geer). 



Chestertown, Beltsville, Montgomery County, Plummer's Island 

 and Hyattsville, Maryland; Washington, District of Columbia; 

 Fairfax County, Falls Church, Rosslyn and Bayville, Virginia; 

 Jefferson, Cranberry, Grandfather Mountain, Blowing Rock, Black 

 Mountain, Asheville, Mount Pisgah, Balsam and Waynesville, North 

 Carolina, and Atlanta and Thompson's Mills, Georgia. 

 Virginia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 5 d\ 7 9, 2 juv. d\ 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. d". 



Lynchburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. d 1 . 

 Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 



146 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1912, pp. 209-214, figs. 17-19, (1912). 



147 Davis, Jour. N. Y. Ent. Soc, XXII, p. 171, (1914). 



148 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913, pp. 394-492, (1913). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2S , 



North Carolina. Georgia. 



Greensboro,- VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), Rabun County, VII, L910, (W. T. 



2 juv. cf. Davis), 1 juv. 9 . 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), Toccoa, VIII, 4 -:.. L913, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



1 cT, 19. Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 19, 



Sol,lh Carolina. J^ ( m ._, ;ui( , 6j 1913j (Bi . ;((1]( . v 



Spartanburg, Mil, G, 1913, (H.), andR.&H.), 3d". lo* macropterous. 



1 juv. 9 . 



In late July, 1913, immature individuals of the species were found 

 everywhere very numerous in fields in the Piedmont region of Virginia 

 and North Carolina. 



Immature individuals of the races of this species are easily separable 

 from those of other southeastern species of the genus, as they alone 

 have a medio-longitudinal dorsal dark stripe on the abdomen, down 

 the centre of which an often well-defined very narrow pale line is 

 usually found. In addition, the lateral lobes of the pronotum are 

 usually heavily marked with a broad dark band, which is often 

 continued on the sides of the abdomen. 

 Nemobius fasciatus socius Scudder. 



Raleigh, Newbern, Fayetteville, Hamlet, Lake Waccamaw, 

 "Wilmington, Winter Park, Southport and Smith Island, North Caro- 

 lina; north end of Sullivan Island and Yemassee, South Carolina; 

 Tybee Island, Brunswick, Cumberland Island, Billy's Island, Homer- 

 ville, Thomasville and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Atlantic Beach, 

 Pablo Beach and Jacksonville, Florida. 



■» 



Goldsboro, North Carolina, VII, 25, Macon, Ga., VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & 



1913, (R. & H.), 1 d\ 19. H.), 1 o", 49. 



Augusta, Georgia, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & Albany, Ga., VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



H.; common, unfilled field among 5 o", 2 9, 1 juv. o". Id 1 maerop- 



grasses), 3 9 . terous. 



Nemobius maculatus Blatchley. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 District of Columbia; Fairfax County, Alexandria County, Cherry- 

 dale and Dead Run, Virginia, and Raleigh, North Carolina. 



Cabin John Run, Maryland, IX, 1911, Weldon, North Carolina, VII, 24, 1913, 



(W. T. Davis), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. (R. & H.), 1 juv. <?. 



Fredericksburg, Virginia, MI, 20, 1913, Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, Georgia. 



(R. & H.), 1 juv. o", 2 juv. 9 . VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



Petersburg, Va., VII, 23, 1913, (R. & Vicinity of Stone Mountain, Ga., 



H.), 4 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9 . VIII, 3, 1913, (H.), 1 juv. 9 . 



Immature individuals of this species are readily separable from those 

 of other forms found in this territory. They are brownish, somewhat 

 mottled with a paler color, and have the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 occasionally darkened. Confusion with material of the early instars 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of N. carolinus would alone be possible, and the unequal dorsal pair 

 of distal spurs of the caudal tibiae readily separates them from these. 



The series recorded above was found scarce on banks of stream in 

 woods (Fredericksburg), not scarce in boggy spot of grasses in woods 

 (Petersburg), along stream in heavy forest (Weldon) and in bog at 

 foot of precipice (vicinity of Stone Mountain). 



The species was not previously correctly recorded 149 from the 

 southeastern United States south of the vicinity of Washington, 

 except from Raleigh, North Carolina. 



Nemobius griseus funeralis Hart. 



Macon, Georgia, VII, 30, 31, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 9 . 



It is with great satisfaction that we find a specimen of this dis- 

 tinctive insect, known previously from the unique female type taken 

 at College Station, Texas, in the material from Georgia before us. 

 We find, moreover, a male, taken at Winslow, Arkansas, September 

 3, 1905, by Morse, in the Morse Collection. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



Winslow, Macon, 



Ark. Ga. 



Length of body 8.9 9.2 



Length of pronotum 2 1.9 



Caudal width of pronotum 2.6 2.4 



Length of tegmen 5.8 3.8 



Length of caudal femur 6.6 6 



Greatest width of caudal femur 2.3 2 



Length of ovipositor 4.4 



Nemobius ambitiosus Scudder. 



Florence, South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Jesup, Spring Creek, 

 Thomasville, Homerville, Suwannee Creek, Billy's ' Island, Honey 

 Island, St. Simon's Island and Cumberland Island, Georgia, and 

 Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, San Pablo, Live Oak 

 and Georgia State Line of Leon County, Florida. 



Georaia Bih V s Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. 



" Bradley),2 9. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 5 d\ 



Davis), Id". 6 9 



Toccoa, VIII, 4-5, 1913, (H.), 2 Spring Creek, VIIJ, 26-28, 1913, (J. C. 



.i uv - cf . Bridlev) 2 r? 1 9 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 1 tf, -^clley], . cf, l V . 



1 9, 1 juv. cf. Florida. 



Mixon's Hammock, V, 16, 1915, (H.), Ortega, IX, 6, 1913, (W. T. Davis), 



19. 19. 



149 Specimens of N. fasdatus from Jefferson, North Carolina, now before us, 

 were incorrectly recorded by Sherman and Brimley as N. maculatus (Ent. News, 

 XXII, p. 391, (1911)). 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



A female from Billy's Island and one from Albany are black in 

 general coloration. Immature individuals arc brown in general 

 coloration, often tinged with reddish and flecked with darker brown; 

 the distinctive cephalic markings are as well defined as in the adult 

 condition. 



The series recorded above was found in the undergrowth of the 

 long-leaf pine woods (Hebardville, Albany), in dry leaves under live 

 oak (Mixon's Hammock) and immature individuals were found 

 occasional in oak leaves (Toccoa). 



Tin 1 records given above include the northernmost localities known 

 for the species. 



Nemobius bruneri Hebard. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 District of Columbia, and Glencarlyn, Virginia. 



Virginia. Orange, VII, 2Q, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Rosslyn, X, 14, (A. X. Caudell), 3 tf 1 , 2 J uv - <?■ 



[U. S. N. M.]. North Carolina. 



Arlington, \ II, 9, 1914, (H.), 1 juv. tf, Greenflboro> VIIj 26> 1913> (R . & H)> 



Fr HfffuT*& 2^ 1913 ' (R ' & ChJtottef VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.», 



Immature individuals of this species are very striking, being pale 

 reddish brown in general coloration speckled with much darker 

 brown, by which dark color the lateral lobes of the pronotum and 

 first and fifth abdominal segments are heavily suffused. These 

 latter markings give a distinctive barred appearance in very young- 

 individuals, which becomes less strongly defined in successive instars 

 to those preceding maturity, in which these markings are not strongly 

 indicated. 



The species was found abundant in damp leaves in and along the 

 border of a deciduous woodland on high ground near a stream 

 (Fredericksburg) and scarce in leaves on edge of a deciduous forest 

 (Orange). 



No other records, other than those given above, have been pub- 

 lished for the species in the territory at present under consideration. 



Nemobius cubensis cubensis Sauasure. 



Montgomery County, Maryland; Washington, District of Colum- 

 bia; Raleigh, North Carolina; Florence, South Carolina; Jesup, 

 Georgia, and Jacksonville, Florida. 



Albany, Georgia, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & Bainbridge, Ga., VII, 15-27, 1909, 

 H.J, 2 a\ 2 9 • All brachypterous. (J. C. Bradley), 1 c? . Macropterous. 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



The species was found occasional in swampy spots (Albany). 



The above records include all the localities known for the species 

 over the territory at present considered. The species has been found 

 as far north as Staten Island, New York, and southward appears to 

 reach its greatest abundance in the United States in peninsular Florida. 



Nemobius palustris palustris Blatchley. 



Washington, District of Columbia, and Fayetteville, Lake Wacca- 

 maw and Wilmington, North Carolina. 



These, the southernmost-known records for this insect, include 

 all the localities known for it over the area now being studied. 



Nemobius carolinus carolinus Scudder. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, 

 District of Columbia; Alexandria County, Dead Run, Rosslyn, 

 Fairfax County and Falls Church, Virginia; Raleigh, Blowing Rock, 

 Newton, Black Mountain, Balsam, Highlands, Fayetteville and Lake 

 Waccamaw, North Carolina; Florence, Swansea and north end of 

 Sullivan Island, South Carolina; Thompson's Mills, Brunswick, 

 Thomasville and Bainbridge, Georgia, and Daytona, Florida. 



Virginia. Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & n \j U J- ^\jU U o" K 9 - iniQ ,„ , „, 

 H , .> • _ % Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



n.;,-]uv. a. 2 d% 3 9. 



»t is, 7- Georgia. 



North Carolina. -p.. i r> i wttt , m .m, /T n 



Pinnacle Peak, VIII, 20, 1913, (J. C. 



Jefferson, IX, 1912, (F. Sherman), Bradley), 2 9. 



1 d\ [N. C. State Dept. Agr. Cln.]. Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. <?. 



Grandfather Mountain, 4,000-5,000 Billy's Island, IX, 1-5, 1913, (J. C. 



feet, IX, 1915, 1 <?, [Hebard Cln.]. Bradley), 1 c? • 



Blowing Rock, IX, 1915, (F. Sherman), Spring Creek, VII, 16 to VIII, 26, 1912 



1 d\ [N. C. State Dept. Agr. Cln.]. and 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 <?, 3 9 . 



Immature individuals of this species and of N. confusus are more 

 glabrous in general appearance than any others found in the area 

 here considered. The general color is dark brown, the four rows of 

 large pale spots on the dorsal abdominal segments first appearing 

 in the instars immediately preceding maturity. 



The present common insect is found everywhere over the region 

 now being studied. 



Nemobius confusus Blatchley. 



Cabin John Run and Plummer's Island, Maryland; Dead Run-, 

 Falls Church and Alexandria County, Virginia, and Raleigh, North 

 Carolina. 



Rabun County, Georgia, VII, 1910, Buckhead, Ga., VIII, 2, 1913, (H.; 

 (W. T. Davis), 2 juv. <f, 1 juv. 9 . undergrowth in mixed oak and pine 



forest), 1 juv. 9 . 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 291 



The very dark general coloration of immature examples of this 

 species and the hone white maxillary palpi, make them readily 

 separable from those of any other species found in the regions here 

 treated. 



In the southeastern United States the species was not previously 

 known except from Raleigh, North Carolina. 



A single immature specimen was found in woods of oak and pine 

 (Buckhead). 



Anurogryllus muticus (DeGeer).iso 



X, w J i rsey. Florida. 



Ocean View, VI, 11 and 17, 1911 and Jacksonville, IV, 1885, (W. H \>h- 



1912, (H. Fox), 2 <?, [A. N. S. P.]. mead), 1 ? , [Hebard Cln.]; winter of 



District of Columbia. [U^N V]^ "' Ashmead) ' * 9 ' 



Washington, (Chittenden), 2 9, [U. S. Lawteyj X, 12 and 28, 1886, (M. 



JN. .M.J. Venickerbocker), 2 juv. cf, 3 iuv. 9, 



1 «rgwua. [Tj. S. N. M.]. 



Clarendon, VI, 8, 1914, (H. A. Allard), Gulf Hammock, Levy County, IV, 7 



4 cf , [U. S. X. M.]. 1903, (P. Laurent), 3 juv. 9 .'[Hebard 



Falls Church, VIII, 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. Cln.]. 



Charlottesville, V, 26, 1914, (H. Fox), De Land, 2 juv. 9, [IT. S. N. M.l. 



1 cf, [Hebard Cln.]. . 7 , 



Alabama. 



North Carolina. Auburn, V, 6, 1911, (W. E. Hinds), 



Raleigh, V. 30, 1905, 1 cf, [U. S. 1 9 , [U. S. N. MJ. 



X. M.]; VI, 1911 to 1915, (C. S. Daphne, VI, 9, 1894, (L. Sauterre), 2 9 , 



Brimley), 4 cf , 19, [Brimley Cln. [U. S. N. M.]. 



and X. C. State Dept, Agr.]. T . . 



Louisiana. 

 South Carolina. Jen ^ La g alle Parishf y - lg87; 



Beech Island, V, 14, 1903, (Hammond), (M. Dempsey), 1 9 , [U. S. X. M.l 152 



19.ID.ftN.MJ- Texas 



Ge ° ra ™. Victoria, IV, 24, 1915, (J. D. Mitchell), 



Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 4 cf . 2 9,1 juv. 9, [U. S. X. M.]. 



This insect is one of the very plastic and widely distributed 

 American species of the group Gryllites. We find not only guade- 

 loupensis, angustulus and caribeus to be synonyms of this species, 

 as indicated by Kirby, 153 but also Gryllodes clarazianus of Saussure/ 54 

 which form was later placed in the present genus by its author. This 

 Argentinian variant, of which we have material before us, has been 



150 This species has twice been recorded by Caudell from the United States in 

 error as A. antiUarum. See footnote 152 and Proc. Entom. Soc. Wash., VI n 49 

 (1904), [Southern United States]. 



151 Correctly recorded by Hammond (Bull. 44, Bur. of Entom., U. S. Dent of 

 Agr., p. 94, (1904)). 



152 Recorded as ant ilia rum with Fl<>rid;i, South Carolina, Virginia and Alabama 

 state records by Caudell (Bull. 44, Bur. of Entom., U. S. Dept. of Wr n 88 

 (1904)). 1- ' 



153 5(/«. Cat. Ortk., II, p. 24, (1906). 



"< Miss. Sri. Max., Rech. Zool.. VI, p. 412, pi. VIII, fig. 31, (1874). [Bahia 

 Blanca, Argentina.] 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



separated from muticus as found in the Guianas, 155 by the head being- 

 marked with four pale longitudinal lines and the caudal metatarsus 

 being shorter and broader with dorsal margin more distinctly arcuate. 

 The head marking appears often, though usually not strongly defined, 

 being particularly apparent in immature examples or adults of pale 

 general coloration, over nearly the entire distribution of the species. 156 

 Various series show that the metatarsal length and heaviness is 

 extremely variable in the species, though often uniform in large 

 series from the same general region. 157 Variations in tegminal and 

 wing length, and in the caudal metatarsus, are principally the cause 

 of the above synonymy, though other variations, decidedly puzzling 

 without large series being available for comparison, also occur. 



Within the boundaries of the United States the species shows 

 appreciable differences from material from the Guianas; these 

 differences due, in our opinion, to an adaptation to the differences in 

 environment and climate, but, considering the plasticity of the 

 species, neither sufficiently constant or well marked to warrant the 

 recognition of a geographic race. The most noteworthy of these are : 

 the somewhat more evenly rounded and protuberant occiput; slightly 

 weaker inter-antennal protuberance; slightly less prominent eyes: 

 more nearly quadrate dorsum of the pronotum, with caudal margin 

 straight or weakly convex (never weakly bisinuate as in typical 

 muticus); color frequently decidedly paler, with the pale marking 

 at the ventro-cephalic angle of the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 (usually conspicuous in typical muticus) subobsolete. 



Along the Atlantic coast of the United States the species is usually 

 found to have the metatarsus very slightly longer than is typical, 

 but of similar proportions; specimens from Alabama westward, 

 however, have the metatarsus distinctly shorter and slightly 

 heavier. 



The examples from Victoria, Texas, have the occiput more dis- 

 tinctly striped than in any but Argentinian material before us. 

 Great variation in intensity of coloration is shown in the series here 

 recorded; although these specimens average decidedly paler than 

 tropical material of the species, the four adults from Hebardville, 



155 A large series now before us from British Guiana appears to be in every way 

 typical. 



156 This marking being less apparent in adults of intensive coloration, it is not 

 surprising to find few of these in tropical series which are usually dark in general 

 coloration. 



157 We are able to ascertain this fact from very large series now before us from 

 the West Indies, Central and South America. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHI \ . 293 



Georgia, are as dark as any specimens before us, but have the lateral 

 lobes of the pronotum entirely pale. 



In the United States the males have the tegmina reaching to, or 

 falling slightly short of, the apex of the abdomen; the females have 

 the tegmina never less than half the abdominal length, frequently 

 about two-thirds that length, though more variable than the males 

 in this feature. Of the above series two females (Washington) are 

 macropterous, one female (Victoria) has a single caudate but imper- 

 fect wing, while one female (Falls Church) has long tegmina but 

 aborted wings. 



It might seem that geographic races could be recognized, but 

 careful study, of this and much larger tropical American series, 

 shows that variation such as discussed above occurs in an endless 

 complexity, and that intermediates of every sort occur between 

 conditions which might easily be supposed, without sufficient material 

 for comparison, to represent geographic races or even closely related 

 species. The form of the male titillatores is the same in all of the 

 material of the species examined. 



In the United States adults of the species appear in April, May 

 and June, later than this individuals are scarcely ever encountered. 



The present insect has long been known to be very destructive in 

 the southeastern United States, damaging cotton, tobacco, sweet 

 and white potatoes, strawberries, peas and other farm products. 

 The series here recorded was taken: in fence corner and in truck 

 patch (Ocean View), in cotton field (Beech Island and Auburn), 

 on fences and walls of yard of bermuda grass, stridulating at dusk 

 (Hebardville) and injuring strawberries (Lawtey). 



The records given above define the known range of the species in 

 the United States. 



Gryllus assimilis Fabricius. 



Recent studies have shown this to be the only native representative 

 of the genus found in America. 158 Great variation, however, exists 

 and we have found the variants to be best represented by symbols. 109 

 Of these, the following four are found in the regions at present under 

 consideration : 



B, suffused Z, (normally d or e, w), (45 to 2, the latter weakly 0); 

 scudderianus. 



AU, (normally ax), 4; neglectus. 



158 Rehn and Hebard, Paoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, pp. 293-322, (1915). 

 150 S.-p Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1915, pp. 299, 300, (1915). 



20 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



AV, (normally a or b but ranging to f , x but often u) , 3 ; pennsyl- 

 vanicus. 



AW, (normally d but ranging from a to f , w but often u) , 3 ; luc- 

 tuosus. 



Of these, scudderianus is apparently an adaptation to an arenaceous 

 surrounding, it is found locally as far north as Indiana, at the more 

 northern points showing an average less robust form and smaller 

 size (such material constituting the bases of the names scudderianus, 

 rubens and arenaceus), while in southern Florida and on the Gulf 

 coast an average more robust form and larger size is developed 

 (upon such material firmus was in part founded). 



The other three variants intermingle more generally, though 

 individuals of each occasionally show the transition toward the 

 scudderianus variant. The darkest of these, neglectus, is found in 

 the north, only appearing well defined, in the area here considered, 

 in the Appalachian mountains south as far as their highest points 

 in north Georgia. Over the entire region pennsylvanicus appears 

 generally, but is the most frequent condition met with on the Pied- 

 mont plateau, while luctuosus is the normal condition everywhere on 

 the coastal plain in the regions here considered. 160 



Material can be grouped for convenience under these variant 

 designations, but in such treatment it must be remembered that 

 nearly every specimen of each series will show different degrees 

 of coloration, femoral and ovipositor length and every other feature, 

 excepting those diagnostic qualities common to all of the variants 

 of G. assimilis. 



In the paper in which these facts are fully treated, the exact con- 

 dition of the material from the collections at present being studied 

 is given, 161 the localities being: Chestertown, Glen Echo and 

 Jennings, Maryland; Washington, District of Columbia; Roslyn, 

 Virginia; Winter Park and Lake Waccamaw, North Carolina; Flor- 

 ence, Sullivan Island and Yemassee, South Carolina; Rabun Bald, 

 Black Rock Mountain, Tuckoluge Creek, Clayton, Atlanta, vicinity 

 of Stone Mountain, Augusta, Jesup, Waycross, Hebardville, Billy's 

 Island, St. Simon's Island, Cumberland Island, Fargo, Chester, Bain- 

 bridge and Spring Creek, Georgia, and Atlantic Beach, Pablo Beach, 

 Burnett's Lake and Live Oak, Florida. 



160 It is this condition which the present authors had frequently recorded as 

 G. rubens from the southeastern United States. 



161 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, pp. 305-307, (1915). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Gryllus domesticus Linnaeus. 



This species, accidentally introduced by man from Europe, has 

 been recently recorded by us 162 from "Carolina" and Roswell, Albany 

 and Thomasville, Georgia, within the territory at present under con- 

 sideration. 



Miogryllus verticalis (Serville). 



The American species of this genus have recently been fully 

 studied and reported upon by the junior author. 163 



Material from the present collections from College Park and 

 Plummer's Island, Maryland; Washington, District of Columbia; 

 Falls Church, Virginia; Raleigh and Goldsboro, North Carolina; 

 Columbia, South Carolina; Clayton, Sand Mountain, Trenton, Au- 

 gusta, Tybee Island, Mixon's Hammock in Okeefenokee Swamp and 

 Billy's Island, Georgia, and Jacksonville, Atlantic Beach and Mari- 

 anna, Florida, is treated in that paper. In addition we now have 

 the following specimens: 



Raleigh, North Carolina, late VI, 1911, Hebardville, Georgia, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 

 (C. S. Brimlev), 2 9,1 macropter- 1 juv. 9 , 1 very small juv. 9 . 



ous, 16 " [Brimlev Cln.]. Billv's Island, Ga., V, 16, 1915, (H.), 



' 1 juv. 9. 



Gryllodes sigillatus (Walker). 



Though not as yet known from Florida as far north as the region 

 treated in the present paper, this species is apparently rapidly 

 extending its distribution northward. 



It has been reported by Davis from as far north in Florida as 

 Lakeland, and recently the junior author found it widely distributed 

 in that town, particularly about grocery stores, where, on May 21, 

 1915, a single male was taken to verify tljis observation. 



(Ecanthus niveus (DeGeer). 



Cranberry, North Carolina, VIII, 1896, (H. Skinner), 1 o", [A. N. S. P.]. 



This species has been very widely discussed in past literature, 

 principally owing to its economic importance, but very general 

 confusion with both 0. exclamationis and 0. angustipennis prevents 

 the use of the majority of these records in distributional studies. 



162 Paoc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, pp. 320-322, (1915). 



163 Jour. X. Y. Ent. Soc, XXIII, pp. 101-121, (1915). 



164 This specimen is of particular interest in being the first macropterous 

 example of the species to be reported from temperate regions. Four other 

 macropterous specimens are known from the tropics, the type and three individ- 

 uals of the series of one hundred and twenty-two examples which were before 

 the junior author at the time the genus was revised. In the present example 

 the internal face of the cephalic tibiae bears a but weakly defined tympanum; 

 the measurements are: length of body 13.7, of pronotum 2.3, of tegmen 6, of 

 wing 16.7, of caudal femur 9, of ovipositor 10.3 mm. 




296 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



We know it to be found on the Atlantic coast as far north as Wind- 

 sor, Connecticut. Thompson's Mills, Georgia, is the only previous 

 definite record for the southeastern United States. The species is 

 both dendrophilous and thamnophilous, appearing usually in greatest 

 numbers in shrubs with pithy branches, in which the females deposit 

 their eggs. 



(Ecanthus angustipennis Fitch. 



North Carolina. 



Raleigh, X, 18, 1905, 1 9 ; XI, 2, 1904, 



(G. M. Bentley), 1 9, [both N. C. 



Dept. Agr. Cln.]. 

 Southern Pines, XI, 1908, (A. H. 



Manee), 2 9, [N. C. Dept. Agr. and 



Hebard Cln.]. 

 Mount Airy, XI, 16, 1904, (G. M. 



Bentley), 19, [N. C. Dept. Agr. 



Cln.]. 

 Saluda, VIII, 17, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 Balsam, about 4,000 feet, IX, 15-18, 



1908, (Z. P. Metcalf), 19, [N. C. 



State Dept. Agr. Cln.]. 



South Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.; in 

 forest foliage), 1 9 . 



Georgia. 



Pinnacle Peak, Rabun County, VIII, 

 20, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 

 (H.; beaten from luxuriant vegeta- 

 tion, vines, oak shoots, etc., in black- 

 jack woods), 1 juv. d 71 . 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf. 

 Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.; 



heavy undergrowth of gray-bark 



pine forest), 1 9 . 

 Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. 9 . 

 De Witt, VII, 25, 1912, 1 9 , [Ga. 



State Cln.]. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16-29, 1912, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 . 



Hartford, Connecticut, is the most northern location on the Atlantic 

 coast at which we know the species to occur. Past confusion with 

 other species makes distributional studies from the literature, in 

 almost every case, impossible. The species has been taken and 

 recorded by us from as far south as Lakeland, Florida. It has been 

 correctly recorded in the regions under consideration from Bayville, 

 Virginia; Raleigh and Asheville, North Carolina, and Toccoa and 

 Thompson's Mills, Georgia. Like O. niveus, the species is both den- 

 drophilous and thamnophilous. 



(Ecanthus quadripunctatns Beutenmiiller. 



Virginia. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.; occasional, especially juv., in 



weeds in open), 1 d% 19. 

 Cape Henry, VII, 2 and IX, 7, 1903, 



(A. P. Morse), 2 9 . 

 Virginia Beach, VII, 4, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 3 d". 

 Appomattox, IX, 6, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 19,3 juv. 9. 

 Wvtheville, IX, 5, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



39. 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 tf 1 . 

 Tarboro, VII, 7, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



3 tf,29. 

 Raleigh, VII, 9, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 <?, 5 9. 

 Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 o". 

 Jefferson, IX, 1912, (F. Sherman), 



1 9 , [N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. 

 Morgan ton, VII, 12, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 3 d", 2 9. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



297 



Saluda, VIII, 17, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



19. 

 Asheville, VII, 21, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



1 juv. 9. 



Balsam, 4,000 feet, IX, 15-18, 1908, 

 (Z. P. Met, -alt'i, 1 9, [N. C. State 

 Dept. Agr.]. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7. 1911, (R. & H.), 

 6 f, 3 9. 



Winter Park, IX, 7, Kill, <R. & II.), 



2 cf, 3 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & 

 H.), 1 o", 2 9. 



Tennessee. 

 Roan Mountain Station, IX, 3, 1903, 

 (A. P. Morse), 6 d", 19. 



Smith Carolina. 



Florence, IX, ti. 1911, (R. & II.), 1 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (R. & H.). 



2 d% 49. 



(leorgiu. 



Rabun County, VII, 1910, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 juv. cf. 

 Currahee Mountain, VIII, 5, 1913, 



(H.), 1 d\ 

 Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (R. & H.; 



waste field), 1 cr, 19. 

 Stone Mountain, VII, 28, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 juv. cr. 

 Bolton, VII, 29, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 



2 cT. 

 Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.), 1 juv. d\ 



1 juv. 9. 



Cbickamauga, VII, 10, 1898, (H. L. 

 Viereck), 1 d\ [A. N. S. P.], 



Trenton, VII, 10, 1905, (A. P. Morse), 

 1 o", 19. 



Macon, VII, 30-31, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 d\ 59. 



West Point, VII, 30, 1903, (A. P. 

 Morse), 1 J 1 . 



Oglethorpe, VII, 1, 1910, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 d\ 19. 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 191.1, (R. & H.), 



1 d\ 



Tybee Island, VII, 26, 1913, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 9 ; VIII, 13, 1903, 

 (A. P. Morse), 1 juv. d\ 



Billy's Island, VI, 1912, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 2 9 . 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 undergrowth in long-leaf pine forest), 



2 9. 



Bainbridge, IX to X, (J. C. Bradley), 

 19. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 d*. 

 Ortega, IX, 27-28, 1913, (W. T. 



Davis), 5 d* , 1 juv. cT. 

 Newberry, XI, 18, 1911, (W. T. 



Davis), 1 cf. 

 Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (R. & H.), 



1 d% 19. 

 Tallahassee, VIII, 8, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 d. 



This, the most abundant species of the present genus in the eastern 

 United States, is found almost everywhere over the regions here 

 considered, it has been correctly recorded from as far south in the 

 eastern United States as Fort Myers, Florida. The insect has been 

 frequently recorded in past literature as other species of the genus. 

 The species is more nearly terrestrial than any other of the genus 

 here considered ; it is usually found in the open, in weeds and grasses, 

 where it occurs frequently in considerable numbers. 



In the above series one specimen, from Live Oak, Florida, has the 

 inner antennal marking greatly reduced, while the outer markings 

 have disappeared. This is very unusual in this species, in which 

 these markings are normally well defined with outline sharp and even. 



(Ecanthus nigricornis Walker. 



Tnmessee. North Carolina. 



Roan Mountain Station, IX, 3, 1903, Jefferson, IX, 1912, (F. Sherman; 

 i A. P. Morse), 12 d*, 13 9. C. 1.. Metcalf), 2d, 19, [N. C. 



State Dept. Agr.]. 




298 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Blowing Rock, VIII, 1905-1906, (R. S. Linville, VIII, 28, 1906, (R. S. Wol- 



Wolgum; F. Sherman), 2 cf, 19, gum), 1 cf, [N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. 



[N. C. State Dept, Agr.]. Waynesville, IX, 14, 1909, (Z. R 



Grandfather Mountain, 4,000 feet, IX, Metcalf), 2 cf , [N. C. State Dept. 



11, 1908, (Z. P. Metcalf), 3 9, Agr. and Brimley Cln.]. 



[N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. Montreal, 3,000 feet, IX, 21-22, 1908, 



(Z. P. Metcalf), 19, [Brimley Cln.]. 



In addition to the normally very distinctive coloration of this 

 insect, it may be further distinguished from the allied O. quadri- 

 punctatus by the heavier pronotum, the greatest width of which 

 more closely approximates the length of the same than in that 

 species, while the head between the eyes is weakly but distinctly 

 depressed, a condition not at all or rarely very weakly indicated 

 in qaadripunctatus. 



Only a few specimens in the present series do not exhibit the very 

 strongly denned normal type of coloration, these have the dark 

 markings slightly paler, while in a single female the color pattern is 

 still more decidedly recessive and only in part indicated. 



We believe the present species to be confined to the Appalachian 

 portion of the regions at present under consideration. It is widely 

 distributed over the north-central and central-eastern portions of 

 the United States and is the most abundant species of the genus in 

 southern Ontario. Numerous records of nigricornis and the synony- 

 mous fasciatus are, however, erroneous. On the Atlantic coast it is 

 known to occur over but a comparatively limited area north of the 

 territory here studied. The insect is found in weeds and low plants 

 in the open, but particularly in tangles of raspberry vines; it is usually 

 locally distributed, but very abundant. 



(Ecanthus pini Beutenmiiller. 



1911. (Ecanthus nigricornis Rehn and Hebard, (not of Walker, 1869) f 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1910, p. 649. [Raleigh, North Carolina.] 



Raleigh, N. C, IX, 7 and 22, 1904, (C. S. Brimley; upland field and alders in 

 pine woods), 2 9 , [Hebard Cln.j. 



This species shows nearest relationship to O. nigricornis, but is 

 somewhat more robust, with coloration and color pattern distinctive 

 and wholly different, with pronotum normally slightly heavier and 

 more nearly quadrate, and with the head between the eyes even 

 more decidedly depressed. The antennal markings are much as in 

 specimens of that species in which such markings are apparent; 

 in O. quadripundatus these markings are very similar, but with 

 outline more abruptly and evenly defined. 



The present species, we believe, is wholly arboreal and only found 




1916.] 



NATURAL S< IKNVKS OF I'll ILADKLI'IflA. 



299 



in pine trees, except when moving from one to another. Its dis- 

 tribution is as yet very imperfectly known; the species was described 

 from [West Woodstock], Windham County, Connecticut. Other 

 records from Rivcrton and Anglesea, New Jersey; Chestertown, 

 Maryland, and Brownsville, Texas, do not apply to this species, but 

 several from the pine-barrens region of New Jersey we know to be 

 correct. 



(Ecanthus latipennis Riley. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 



H.; weeds in corner of field near 



deciduous forest), 2 juv. cf. 

 Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.; very 



scarce in undergrowth of chestnut 



woods), 1 juv. o 1 . 

 Petersburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.; 



scarce in undergrowth of pine 



woods), 2 juv. cf. 

 Appomattox, IX, 6, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 9 . 



North Carolina. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.; under- 

 growth in low pine woods), 2 juv. cf , 

 1 juv. 9 . 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.; 

 vegetation in damp places of short- 

 leaf pine woods), 2 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 



Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.; 

 beaten from low oaks in short-leaf 

 pine woods), 1 cf , 19. 



(Ireensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. cf. 



Saluda, VIII, 17, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 

 1 juv. <? . 



South. Carolina. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.; 

 scrub oaks in short-leaf pine forest), 

 3 cf, 5 9. 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.; 

 beaten from undergrowth in long- 

 leaf pine woods), 1 juv. cf . 



Georgia. 



Toccoa, VIII, 4, 1913, (H.; beaten 

 from heavy, low scrub oaks), 1 

 juv. cf . 



Jasper, VIII, 5, 1913, (R.; beaten from 

 scrub), 1 juv. 9 . 



Sharp Mountain near Jasper, VIII, 6, 

 1913, (R.; beaten from blackberry 

 and oak shoots), 1 juv. cf . 



Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R. & H.; oak 

 shoots in oak woods), 1 juv. cf , 



1 juv. 9 . 



Dalton, VIII, 7, 1913, (R.; beaten, 



on hillside), 1 juv. 9 . 

 Sand Mountain, VIII, 25, 1903, (A. P. 



Morse), 1 juv. cf, 1 juv. 9. 

 Warm Springs, VIII, 9-10, 1913, (R.), 



2 juv. cf , 1 juv. 9 . 



Augusta, VII, 29, 1913, (H.; oak 

 shoots in sand area, one seen), 

 1 juv. cf • 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 1 juv. 9 . 



Among the eastern representatives of the genus the present species 

 is distinctive in size, form of pronotum in the males, coloration, 

 color pattern and tegminal proportions; in the male the tegmina are 

 very wide for the genus. 



Over the area under consideration the present species has been 

 recorded only from Bayville, Virginia; Raleigh, North Carolina, and 

 Thompson's Mills, Georgia. It is, however, widely distributed, 

 though local, our experience having found it to prefer low oaks and 

 oak shoots in woodlands. Adults of the species are not present 

 until late in the season. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Neoxabea bipunctata (DeGeer). 



Chestertown, Maryland, VIII, 25, 1899. (E. G. Vanatta), 1 9 , [A. N. S. P.]. 

 Rabun County, Georgia., VII, 1910, (W. T. Davis), 2 juv. tf. 

 Billy's Island, Ga., VII, 1912, (J. C. Bradley), 1 9 . 



The remarkable proximal antennal joints, pronotum, callosities 

 of the dorsum of the male abdomen, caudal femora with margins 

 unarmed and supplied distad with two and two very small spurs, 

 cerci and subgenital plate in both sexes, constitute only in part the 

 distinctive characters of this extraordinary and, though scarce, widely 

 distributed species. 



On the Atlantic coast it is known from as far north as Portland, 

 Connecticut, the above records being the first for the regions at present 

 under consideration. The species is extremely retiring, living only 

 in the densest tangles of heavy forest undergrowth, where solitary 

 examples can be found only after long-continued and vigorous 

 beating. 



The Genera of the Group Anaxiphites. 



In 1873, 165 Brunner erected the genus Cyrtoxipha, but failed to 

 designate by name any species; the following year Saussure used the 

 name and placed in the genus five species, 166 one of which, gundlachi, 

 Kirby 167 has selected as genotype. The characters upon which 

 Saussure separated the genera Cyrtoxipha and Anaxipha 168 have been 

 proven invalid, 169 but we find that two species of the former, gundlachi 

 and columbiana, possess characters of generic value to separate them 

 from the other species which have been assigned to these genera. 

 We are consequently obliged to restrict the genus Cyrtoxipha to these 

 two species and to place all the other American forms, hitherto 

 included in this genus, in the genus Anaxipha. This latter genus 

 is as a result found to be very large, the species of which may be 

 divided into several well-marked groups, none of which, however, we 

 feel to be sufficiently differentiated to warrant at present the erection 

 of other genera or subgenera. The type of this genus is pulicaria 

 Burmeister as designated by Kirby, 170 who, however, is in error in 

 synonymizing cxigua and pulicaria. The former is a very distinct 



165 Mittheil. Schweiz. Ent. Gesellsch., IV, p. 168, (1873). 

 1M Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., VI, p. 373, (1874). 



167 Syn. Cat. Orth., II, p. 80, (1906). 



168 Described by that author in the same study. Miss. Sci. Mex., Rech. Zool., 

 VI, p. 370, (1874). 



169 Rehn and Hebard, Ent. News, XXIII, p. 411, (1912). 

 m Syn. Cat. Orlh., II, p. 86, (1906). 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



form and cannot be considered in the fixation of the type of the 

 genus Anaxipha as it was not one of the originally included species. 

 The genus Falcicula 17 * is monotypic and shows close relationship 

 to Anaxipha, hut it possesses very distinctive characters in the 

 complete absence of auditory foramina on the cephalic tibia 1 and in 

 the structure of the male tegmina. The ovipositor is similar to that 

 of certain species of Anaxipha and has the margins minutely serrulate 

 distad. This feature can scarcely be seen with a hand lens and was 

 missed in the original description. 



CYRTOXIPHA Saussure. 



Genotype: Cyrtoxipha gundlachi Saussure. 



Head longitudinal, dorsal surface from behind eyes to dorsal 

 apex of inter-antennal protuberance strongly flattened and but 

 little declivent. Eyes longitudinal, much longer than deep, with 

 dorsal margin not raised above plane of flattened portion, more 

 prominent distad than proximad. Last joint of maxillary palpi 

 not as long as penultimate joint, expanding very strongly distad 

 from base with distal truncation transverse, when flattened out 

 nearly forming an equilateral triangle. Cephalic tibiae with auditory 

 foramen open en both faces. (In the two species known, the color 

 is immaculate and delicate, pale green, but this fades almost inva- 

 riably in drying to a pale brown, which is the same as the general 

 coloration in a number of species of Anaxipha. The spines of the 

 dorsal margins of the caudal tibiae are in these species extremely 

 delicate and little longer than the spaces intervening between their 

 bases. A wingless condition apparently does not occur, the wing 

 length, however, is never more than one and one-half times the teg- 

 minal length.) 



ANAXIPHA Saussure. 



Genotype: Anaxipha [Gryllus] pulicaria (Burmeister). 



Head vertical, dorsal surface not strongly flattened, strongly 

 declivent from occiput to inter-antennal protuberance. Eyes 

 vertical, much deeper than long, evenly protuberant. Last joint of 

 maxillary palpi elongate, longer than penultimate joint, distal 

 truncation transverse or oblique. Cephalic tibiae with auditory 

 foramen open on both faces in winged individuals, in wingless 

 examples normally present, but rarely open, on outer face only, 

 as in winged material. (Distinctive color patterns are developed 



171 Rehn, Ent. News, XIV, p. 258, (1903). 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in numerous species. The spines of the caudal femora are shorter 

 than, to much longer than, the spaces intervening between their 

 bases. The majority of the species are winged, with wing length 

 more than twice the tegminal length. Numerous species, however, 

 develop a wingless condition, in several this being the normal state.) 



FALCICULA Rehm. 



Genotype: Falcicula hebardi Rehn. 



Agrees with Anaxipha, but the cephalic tibiae possess no auditory 

 foramen and the stridulating area of the male tegmina is minute. 

 (In the one species known the general coloration is uniform pale 

 brown, the size is very small to minute, a winged condition is never 

 developed and the caudal tibiae are more swollen than in any known 

 species of Anaxipha.) 



Anaxipha exigua (Say). 



Maryland. North Carolina. 



Rockville, VIII, 16, (F. Knab), 19, Weldon, VIII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



[U. S. N. M.]. 2 i uv - o". 



Hyattsville, VIII, 2, 1908, (F. Knab), R fe h ' ,J£ 16 *° % - 14 ,' \ 904 *> 



i _ti ttt t: at mi 1905, (hherman and Brimlev), o d\ 



1 6 , LU. b. W. M.J. 8 9 , [N. C. State Dept. Agr.]. 

 Plummer s Island, VIII, 16 to IX, 15, Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 3 9 . 



1907 to 1909, (Caudell, Fisher, Wilmington, IX, 8, 1911, (H.), 1 9 . 



Knab), 2 d\ 1 9, [U. S. N. M.j. Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (H.). lc?. 



Cabin John Run, VIII, 7, 1902, (T. „ , Carolina 



Pergande), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. n * outn Laroima - 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 a\ 



District of Columbia. 7 9 . 



Washington, VIII to X, 1878 to 1883, Georgia. 



2 J, 10 9, [Hebard Cln. and U. S. Toccoa, VIII, 28, 1909, (J. C. Brad- 

 N. M.]. le y)> 1 o". 



Virmnin Lavender, 1 d\ 1 9,-[Ga. State Cln.]. 



1 ir 9 l,na - Thompson's Mills, X, 1909, (H. A. 

 Glencarlyn, VIII, 12, (A. N. Caudell), Allard), 19, [U. S. N. M.]. 



1 o", [U. S. N. M.]. Savannah, VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. 

 Falls Church, IX, 4, 1906, (A. N. Morse), 1 d\ 3 9 • 



Caudell), 1 &, 2 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. Albany, VII, 31, 1913, (H.), 1 9 . 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & Florida. 



H.), juv. seen. Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 1 c% 



Petersburg, VII, 22, 1913, (H.), 1 d\ 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



The larger size, heavy facial markings and narrow but decided dark, 

 longitudinal stripe of the caudal femora readily distinguish this 

 species from any other found in the United States. 



Of the present series five females are long winged (Rockville, 

 Washington, Raleigh, Albany and Jacksonville). These and two 

 females with long tegmina and no wings (Virginia hear Washington 

 and Thompson's Mills) have the cephalic tibiae with open auditory 

 foramina on both faces, all of the others have this only on the external 




1016.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



face, though a few show a slight depression on the internal face. Con- 

 siderable size variation is shown, this having no geographic significance. 



The species is usually found in luxuriant grasses or weedy tangles, 

 particularly near water, and is often locally very abundant. It was 

 found immature in great numbers in weeds, both along the river 

 and streams in woods (Fredericksburg), very scarce in short grasses in 

 boggy spot in woods (Petersburg), in undergrowth near stream in 

 forest (Weldon), in rank weedy undergrowth on wet ground on edge 

 of pine forest (Fayetteville, Wilmington, Lake Waccamaw), com- 

 mon on or near the ground in low green vegetation growing on edge 

 of "branch" filled with deciduous trees (Florence) and attracted to 

 light in hotel room (Albany). 



This species is known on the Atlantic coast as far north as West- 

 brook, Connecticut; it has been correctly recorded westward to 

 Brownsville, Texas. Numerous records of pulicaria from as far north- 

 west as Cuming County, Nebraska, and the Mississippi River, 

 Minnesota, apply to this species. 



Anaxipha pulicaria (Burmeister). PI. XIV, fig. 20. 



North Carolina. Miami, 1887, (E. A. Schwarz), 19, 



Raleigh, VII, 8, 190:-!, (A. P. Morse), I 1 "- S. N. M.]; (Mrs. A. T. Slosson), 



1 cf", 1 9 . 1 <?> [M - L - Z - ] - 



South Carolina. Texas. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 19. Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, (H.), 1 tf, 



Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 19. 



1 <?, 2 9. Beaumont, VII, 23, 1912, (H.), 10 cf, 



Georgia. 4 9 . 



Tybee Island, IX, 2, 1911, (H.), 8 c?, Dickinson, VII, 20, 1911, (H.), 2 <?, 



-49 '29,2 juv. <?, 2 juv. 9. 



Thomasville, IV, 9, 1904, (H.), 1 dV 72 Brownsville VI, 23, 1908, (C. A. Hart: 



at light), 7 d\ 7 9, [111. State Lab. 



Florida-. X. H.]; VII, 31 to VIII, 5, 1912. 



Gainesville, VIII, 16, 1905, (R. & H.), (R. & H.), 2 tf , 1 9 ; XI, 21 and 23, 



1 d". 1 " 1910, (C. A. Hart), 1 cf, 2 9, [111. 



Fort Reed, IV, 23, 1S76, 1 9, type of State Lab. N. H.]. 

 Cyrtoxipha delicatula Scudder, 

 [M. C. Z.]. 



This species is smaller, more compact and robust than A. exigua, 

 and is immaculate pale brown in coloration. No cephalic markings 

 are found, except in the Brownsville series, where weakly defined 

 darker markings similar to those of exigua appear (figured). 



In this series, those from Fort Reed and Miami and the specimens 

 taken at Brownsville in June are long winged; these have open 



172 Misidentified as A. exigua bv Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1904, p. 801, (1905). 



173 Misidentified as .1. exigua by Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., 1907, p. 318, (1907). 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



auditory foramina on both faces of the cephalic tibiae, while all of 

 the other specimens have this organ only present on the external 

 face of these members. 



Wingless females of this species are very similar to the largest 

 females before us of Falcicula hebardi, but are readily distinguished 

 by the presence of auditory foramina on the external face of the 

 cephalic tibiae and, though distinctly more compact than exigua, 

 are not as compact as hebardi. Some variation in the propor- 

 tions of the caudal tibiae is found, and though the length appears 

 to vary chiefly with the size of the insect, long-winged individuals 

 indicate that in these this measurement proportionately averages 

 slightly greater. Extremes in length of caudal femora in material 

 before us: wingless, cf 4.1 to 5, 9 4 to 4.9; winged, d 71 4.7 to 5, 

 9 5 to 5.2 mm. 



This insect does not appear to climb up in high grasses and weeds 

 as much as exigua does, but prefers low grasses, particularly in wet 

 locations. It was taken in undergrowth near a "branch" (Florence), 

 in wet undergrowth of pine woods (Yemassee, Gainesville), in 

 moderate numbers in low grass on edge of salt marsh (Tybee Island) , 

 in "hammock" near stream (Thomasville), common on swampy 

 ground in tangles of low weeds and some raspberry vines, in woods 

 composed mainly of deciduous trees (Beaumont) and not common in 

 undergrowth of pine woods (Dickinson). 



The above records define the known limits 174 of the species' dis- 

 tribution in the United States. 175 Numerous records in the literature, 

 of this species from more northern localities, apply without exception 

 to exigua, which name was for a long time incorrectly referred to 

 the genus Nemobius. 



Anaxipha vittata (Bolivar). PI. XIV, fig. 21. 



Albany, Georgia, VIII, 1, 1913, (H.; Punta Gorda, Fla., (Mrs. A. T. Slos- 



forest undergrowth along edge of son), 19, [M. C. Z.]. 



Flint River), 1 $ . Key West, Fla., Ill, 15, 1910, (H.; 



Atlantic Beach, Florida, VIII, 24, ,1,911, in short, heavy grasses growing in 



(H.; in tangles of raspberry vines in open, on scant soil beside a wet 



jungle of cabbage palmetto and live depression in the Key West oolitic 



oak), Id 1 , limestone), 1 9 - 15 



174 The authors' previous record of a single specimen from Key West, Florida, 

 was based on the specimen here correctly recorded under A . vittata. 



175 We have thought best to record here all of the material of the species before 

 us from the United States, in order to correct and define as fully as possible the 

 distribution of the species in this country. 



176 Misidentified as A. pulicaria by Rehn and Hebard, Proc. Acad Nat. Scr. 

 Phila., 1912, p. 274, (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



This insect agrees with A. pulicaria in many respects, but is a 

 smaller, more delicate species. A distinctive color pattern is 

 developed which, when present, readily distinguishes the species. 177 

 This is strongly marked in the specimens from Atlantic Beach 

 (figured) and Punta Gorda, but very weakly indicated and only by 

 the marking of the occiput and dorsum of the pronotum in the 

 other two specimens. 



The specimens here recorded arc wingless, numerous long-winged 

 examples are present, hoAvever, in the exotic series before us. All 

 of the winged individuals have open auditory foramina on both 

 faces of the cephalic tibiae; in the wingless examples this organ is 

 missing on the inner face of these members. 



This tiny species was not previously known to exist within the 

 United States, a large series now before us shows it to be probably 

 the most abundant and widely distributed species of the genus in 

 Cuba and on the Gulf coast of Mexico. 



Falcicula hebardi Rehn. 



New Jersey. South Carolina. 



Reega, Atlantic County, VII, 31 and Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R.), 19. 

 VIII, 10, 1914, (H.), 4 9. Yemassee, IX, 4, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Maryland. 1 cf, 2 9. 



Near Plummer's Island, VI, 17, 1913, T , f n TV -1-- /T) « TT 



(W. L. McAtee), 1 9 , [U. S. N. M.]. Is \ e $ of Ho P e ' IX ' 3 > 1911 < < R - & H ->> 



Virginia. Hebardville, V, 15, 1915, (H.), 19, 



Near Washington, D. C, V, 30, 1883, f , 2 J uv - ? ■ , . „„ 



19, [Hebard Cln.]. Suwannee Creek, VIII, 28, 1911, (H.), 



Petersburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), _ l <f • , T , , „ 

 4939 Cumberland Island, VIII, 31, 1911, 



Cape Henry, VII, 2, 1903, (A. P. (R. & H.), 1 cf , 1 9 . 



Morse), 1 9 . Texas. 



North Carolina. Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, (H.), 2 o\ 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 2 9 ■ 



1 tfi, 49. Beaumont, VII, 23, 1912, (H.), 2 cf. 



Raleigh, VII, 8, 1903, (A. P. Morse), Dickinson, VII, 20, 1912, (H.), 22 cf , 



2o",89. 21 ?- 

 Greensboro, VII, 26, 1913, (H.), 1 cf . 



Individuals of this minute species are distinguishable from any 

 others of the Group Anaxiphites, not only by the absence of auditory 

 foramina on the cephalic tibiae, but also the remarkable reduction 



177 Large exotic series before us show that the species develops an unusual 

 complexity of markings. Certain examples, in the Mexican series, are excep- 

 tional in having the caudal femora suffused dorsad and narrowly banded mesad 

 on the outer face with very dark brown, while rare individuals have the dorsal 

 field of the tegmina fuscous. Other specimens have no dark markings whatever 

 and can only with difficulty be separated from small individuals of A. pulicaria, 

 which species is, however, appreciably more robust. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of the tegminal stridulating apparatus in the male sex. The general 

 coloration is immaculate pale yellowish brown, with no trace of 

 cephalic markings. The species does not appear ever to develop 

 wings and the tegmina have a more regularly convex contour than 

 in the species of the allied genera. 



The species is usually found in greatest numbers in the dry wire- 

 grass and dead needles of the pine woods. It has twice been found 

 in considerable numbers in such situations (Thomasville, Georgia; 

 Dickinson, Texas). The above series was found very rare in heavy 

 grasses of pine forest, Pinus rigida (Reega), occasional in grasses in 

 boggy opening in woods (Petersburg), few in number in dry grasses 

 under short-leaf pines, Pinus echinata (Goldsboro), in short grass on 

 edge of forest (Greensboro), undergrowth of pine woods (Yemassee), 

 undergrowth of gray-bark pine forest, Pinus sp. (Isle of Hope), in dry 

 wire -grass and dead pine needles of long-leaf pine woods, Pinus 

 palustris (Cumberland Island) and in heavy undergrowth of same 

 (Hebardville, Suwannee Creek). 



The present species has been previously correctly recorded only 

 from the type locality, Thomasville, Georgia, and from Gainesville, 

 Florida. 178 



Cyrtoxipha gundlachi Saussure. 



Silver Springs, Florida, XI, 25, 1911, (G. P. Englehardt), 1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 



This species is only known in the United States from peninsular 

 Florida and has not been previously correctly recorded north of 

 Punta Gorda; 179 it is widely distributed in the West Indies and is 

 known from Central and northern South America. 



The present specimen is no larger than the average individuals 

 from Key West, Florida. 



Cyrtoxipha columbiana Cauck-11. 



North Carolina. South Carolina. 



Stem, end of X, 1908, 19, [N. C. Florence > IX > 6 - 1911, (R. & H.), 1 tf. 



State Dept. Agr.]. ■ Georgia. 



Raleigh, VIII, 24, 1905, X, 3, 1908, Hpschton, VII, 26, 1909, (H. A. 

 (C. S. Brimley), 1 <?, 19, [Brimley Allard), 3 &, [U. S. N. M. and 



Cln.]. Hebard Cln.]. 



178 As the distribution of the species has been found to be so much more exten- 

 sive than was previously known, we have here recorded all of the material before 

 us in order to define as fully as possible its range. The records of this species 

 ( 9 ), and Anaxipha exigua (cf), from Cabanas, Cuba, are incorrect, the material 

 being properly referable to Anaxipha vittata. Rehn, 2d Rept. Cent. Exp. Sta. 

 Repub. Cuba, pp. 223, 224, (1909). 



179 Ashmead's record from Utica, Mississippi, applies properlv to C. columbiana. 

 Ins. Life, VI, p. 25, (1894). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Brunswick, VIII, 30, 1911, ill.), 1 9. Mississippi. 



De Witt, VII, 24, 1912, i.l. C. Brad- Battiesburg, VII, 17, L905, (A. P. 



ley), 3 cf. Morse), 1 9. 

 Spring Creek, VII, 16 to VIII, 28, 1912 



and 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 d*, 2 9 . 7 cxas - 



Dallas, (J. Boll), 2 9, [M. C. Z. and 



Florida. U. S. X. M.]. 



Atlantic Head., VIII, 25, 1911, (R. & Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, (H.), 2 <?, 



II.). 19. * 29- 



Tliis species is very closely related to C. gundlachi. It may be 

 distinguished by its greater size, more specialized and elongate 

 titillatores of the male, which normally extend well beyond the 

 distal margin of the subgenital plate, heavier and longer ovipositor 

 with heavier serrulations (in this character, however, only showing 

 a proportionate size increase in the larger species) and tegmina which 

 usually show a few weak and irregularly placed transverse veinlets. 

 The beautiful and brilliant, though pale, green coloration of both 

 these species in life, almost entirely disappears in dried material. 



In the series before us the following extremes in length are found: 

 tegmen, rf 1 5.6 to 6.8, 9 6.3 to 7; wing, & 7.3 to 9.2, 9 8.8 to 9.4; 

 caudal femur, d 71 5 to 5.7, 9 5.3 to 5.8; ovipositor 3.2 to 3.6 mm. 



The species is thamnophilous and dendrophilous and has never 

 been found in the least abundant. Its small size and retiring habits 

 make it a very difficult insect to collect. The present material was 

 taken in a deep forest of gum, sweet gum, etc. (Florence), beaten 

 from bayberry bushes, Myrica cerifera. near stream in forest (Bruns- 

 wick) and from the same on edge of pine woods (Atlantic Beach) , 

 and was found scarce in low bushes, particularly in shoots of sweet 

 gum, along stream in forest (Doucette). 



The insect was described from Washington, District of Columbia, 

 and Falls Church, Virginia, the northernmost localities from which it 

 is known, and has been previously recorded from Raleigh, North 

 Carolina, and Bainbridge, Georgia. The present records.considerably 

 extend the known range of the species westward. 180 



Phylloscyrtus pulchellus (Uhler). 



Maryland. North Carolina. 



Chestertown, VIII, 17 to 26, 1899, Alamance County, VII, 1905, (F. 



(E. G. Vanatta), Id", 49, [A. N. Sherman, Jr.), 1 juv. d\ [N. C. 



S. P.]. State Dept. Agr.]. 



.. Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. & H.), 



y ll 9 ima - 1 juv. o*. 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (H.), Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), 



1 juv. cf. 3 juv. 9 . 



Petersburg, VII, 22, 1913, (R. & H.), Fayetteville, IX, 9, 1911, (R. & H.), 



2 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 1 d\ 1 9. 



180 We have thought best to record here all of the material of this little-known 

 species before us. See additional record for species, footnote 179. 




308 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[April, 



South Carolina. 

 Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 



10 c?, 10 9. 

 Columbia, VII, 28, 1913, (H.), 1 <?. 

 Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 

 19. 



Georgia. 



Clayton, VI, 1909, (W. T. Davis), 



1 juv. 9 , [Davis Cln.]. 

 Lavender, VIII, 23, 1910, (J. C. 



Bradley), 1 9 . 

 Buckhead, VIII, 2, 1913, (R..& H.), 



1 juv. d\ 1 juv. 9. 

 Macon, VII, 30 and 31, 1913, (R. & 



H.), 1 <?. 



Columbus, VIII, 9, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 2 c?, 2 9. 



Savannah, VII, 31, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 

 ley), 1 9 ; VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. 

 Morse), 8 o", 14 9. 



Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (H.), 1 & , 1 9 . 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 

 1 cP, 19. 



Billy's Island, VI, 12, 1912, (J. C. 

 Bradley), 1 juv. d> ; IX, 1 to 5, 

 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 1 tf. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), 

 19 cf, 26 9, 3 juv. 9. 



Thomasville, VI, 29, 1903, (for 

 Hebard), 1 juv. cf, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Florida. 



Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 1 d", 



1 9 , [Hebard Cln.]. 

 Sanford, (G. B. Frazer), 1 d\ 



[M. C. Z.]. 



The large series before us shows little size variation. The majority 

 of specimens from the more southern points average darker in 

 coloration, with colors more intense and brilliant. In this species 

 the wings are always present and nearly as long as, but wholfy 

 concealed by, the tegmina. 



The material here studied was taken : in weeds near Rappahannock 

 River (Fredericksburg), in green undergrowth of heavy forest near 

 stream (Weldon), common in low green undergrowth of "branch" 

 and beaten from heavy green undergrowth in short-leaf pine forest 

 (Columbia) , beaten from undergrowth of long-leaf pine woods (Ashley 

 Junction), scarce in tall weeds near stream in oak and short-leaf 

 pine woods (Buckhead), in small clump of sweet gum shoots in gray- 

 bark pine forest (Sandfly), in heavy undergrowth of gray-bark pine 

 forest (Isle of Hope) and common in tangles of small bushes and 

 vines along Flint River (Albany). The species has been recorded 

 as far north on the Atlantic coast as Staten Island, New York; west- 

 ward its distribution extends far beyond the regions here under 

 consideration. 



Hapithus agitator agitator Uhler. 



District of Columbia. 



Washington, X, 1883, Id", 2 9, 

 [Hebard Cln.]. 



Virginia. 

 Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 

 H.; common in undergrowth of 

 deciduous forest), 2 juv. 9 . 



Orange, VII, 21, 1913, (R. & H.; very 

 scarce in undergrowth of deciduous 

 forest), 1 juv. d". 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (H.; in 

 vegetation of boggy spot near- 

 woods), 1 juv. 9 • 



Norfolk, IX, 8, 1903, (A. P. Morse), 

 1 cf, 3$. 



We have a large series of adults before us from more northern 

 points on the Atlantic coast, where the species has been recorded 

 as far north as Tottenville, Staten Island, New York. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



This geographic race is found to merge with the more southern 

 race, agitator quadratus, along the fall line in North Carolina, this 

 being shown by intermediate material before us from Raleigh. These 

 races show little definite differentiation, but typical agitator may be 

 said to differ from agitator quadratus in the average smaller size; 

 tegmina which normally do not quite reach the distal extremity of 

 the abdomen, in the male with speculum normally lacking a trans- 

 verse vein and with length of same more nearly approximating its 

 width, in the female with veins normally more irregular and not 

 affording a pattern as generally longitudinal; the caudal femora in 

 length also average proportionately slightly less. 



A large series before us from other points in the southeastern 

 United States, particularly those on the Piedmont plateau, are 

 immature, and we are consequently unable to assign the individuals 

 properly. We believe, however, that agitator agitator occurs on the 

 Piedmont plateau at least as far south as Atlanta, Georgia. This 

 race is known to occur as far westward as the timbered portions of 

 eastern Nebraska. 



Hapithus agitator quadratus Sruddor. 



North Carolina. Florida. 



Wrightsville, IX, 7, 1911, (R. & H.), Jacksonville, (T. J. Priddey), 4 cf , 



10 d\ 15 9 , 1 juv. cf . 19, [Hebard Cln.]. 



Wilmington, IX, S, 1911, (H.), 1 cf, Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24 and 25, 1911, 



19. (R. &H.), 4 cf, 5 9. 



Lake Waccamaw, IX, 8, 1911, (R. & Grant, VII, 189S, 1 cf, 19, [Davis 



H.), 4 d", 4 9, 1 juv. 9. Cln.]. 



South Carolina. M ?™'J^^ T " SlosSOn) ' X *> 



19, [M. C. Z.]. 



Texas. 



Florence, IX, 6, 1911, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 



2 9,1 juv. 9 . 



Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Doucette, VII, 24, 1912, (H.), 19. 



2 cf , 3 juv. cf , 5 juv. 9 . Dallas, (J. Boll), 1 cf , 1 9 , [M. C. Z.]. 



r . Kerrville, VIII, 17, 1912, (H.), 1 9 . 



uemaia - Flatonia, VIII, 20, 1912, (H.), 2 cf . 



Savannah, VIII, 14, 1903, (A. P. San Antonio, VIII, 16, 1912, (R. & 



Morse), 6 cf , 8 9 , 2 juv. 9 . H.), 2 cf • 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), Victoria, VII, 27, 1912, (H.), 8 cf , 



9 cf , 10 9 , 1 juv. cf , 2 juv. 9 . i 9 , 1 j uv . 9 . 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, Brownsville, VII, 31, 1912, (PL), 4 cf, 



(R. & H.), 2 cf , 5 9 . " 39. 



Albany, VIII, 1, 1913, (R. & H.), pj per Plantation, near Brownsville, 



1 juv. cf • VIII, 3, 1912, (R. & H.), 1 cf , 6 9 . 



We have recorded above all of the previously unrec orded material 

 of this ~eographic race from within the United States before us, in 

 order to define more fully its known distribution. 



There is considerable variation in the coloration of the form. 

 Occasional specimens have the caudal femora strongly infuscated 

 21 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



medio-longitudinally, the exposed portion of the limb below this 

 being very pale, often cream color; a similar condition is often 

 weakly indicated, while in many series the caudal femora are con- 

 colorous with the general coloration. The intermediate channel in 

 the tegmina is also occasionally strongly defined in yellowish white, 

 often this is weakly indicated, while many individuals have this 

 portion concolorous with the rest of the tegmen. 



The present material was found common in low vegetation under 

 live oaks on barrier beach (Wrightsville), on low wet ground in 

 undergrowth of pine woods (Wilmington, Yemassee), in green under- 

 growth of deep forest (Florence), young numerous, but few adults in 

 undergrowth of dry woods (Ashley Junction), common in heavy 

 undergrowth of gray-bark pine forest (Isle of Hope), scarce in tangle 

 of vines and bushes along Flint River (Albany), in heavy under- 

 growth of jungle "hammock" and in bayberry bushes (Atlantic 

 Beach), in stream bottom choked with deciduous trees (Kerrville, 

 Flatonia), young common, few adults, in scant undergrowth of mixed 

 pine and deciduous forest (Doucette), in rank, high green grasses 

 and nettles along wooded stream (San Antonio), in stream bottom 

 in tangles of vines growing in high weeds (Victoria), by beating tall 

 green weeds in river bottom tangles (Brownsville) and in low heavy 

 jungle tangles (Piper Plantation). 



We have found this race abundant in extreme southern Florida 

 and on the Florida Keys. 



Hapithus brevipennis Saussure. 



Georgia. Billy's Island, IX, 1 to 15 and XII, 



Savannah, VII, 31, 1913, (J. C. Brad- 23, 1913, (J. C. Bradley), 2 <?, 2 9, 



ley), 1 juv. 9 . 1 J uv - ? • 



Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), Florida. 



2 o\ 1 9. ' Jacksonville, VIII, 1885, (W. H. Ash- 

 Sandfly, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 2 J, mead), 1 d% 19; (T. J. Priddey), 



3 9. Id 1 , [all Hebard Cln.]. 



Jesup, IX, 1, 1911, (H.), 1 9. Atlantic Beach, VIII, 24, 1911, (R. & 



St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, H.), 1 cf, 19. 



(R. & H.), 1 d% 2 9 . Live Oak, VIII, 26, 1911, (H.), 1 <?. 



Some size variation, irrespective of geographic distribution, is 

 shown by the material before us. 



The material taken by us was beaten from luxuriant undergrowth 

 of gray-bark pine forest (Isle of Hope, Sandfly), found scarce under 

 live oaks in area of Helianthemum coralinianum (St. Simon's Island), 

 beaten from tangles of grape, raspberry and other vines in jungle 

 "hammock" (Atlantic Beach) and one found on sandy soil among 

 wire-grass (Live Oak). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



The type localities, Georgia and Louisiana, our previous records 

 from Thomasville, Georgia, and Pablo Beach, San Pablo and Gaines- 

 ville, Florida, with those given above, define the known distribution 

 of this beautiful and interest ing species. 



Orocharis saltator Uhler. 



Orocharis gryUodes Saussure (not Gryllus gryllodes Pallas, 1772). (In part.) 



Maryland. Ashley Junction, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), 



Point of Rocks, VIII, 10, 1883, 1 d\ 3 J uv - c?, 3 juv. 9 . 



[Hebard Cln.]. t Georgia. 



Washmgton.D C, X, 1883, 2 cf, 2 9, 1{;|hmi Count vn 191Q (W T 



[Hebard Uln.j. Davis), 4 juv. d\ 4 juv. 9. 



1 "'</"""■ Isle of Hope, IX, 3, 1911, (R. & H.), 



Fredericksburg, VII, 20, 1913, (R. & 1 juv. 9. 



H.), 1 juv. o*. Macon, VII, 31, 1913, (R. & H.), 



Petersburg, VII, 23, 1913, (R. & H.), 1 juv. <?, 1 juv. 9 . 



1 juv. 9. St. Simon's Island, VIII, 30, 1911, 



North Carolina. ( R -), 19- 



„. , . V1T 01 1Q1 o m . tt x Billv's Island, VI and VII, 1912, (J. C. 



Weldon, VII, 24, 1913, (R. cv H.), Bradley), 3 juv. cf. 



2 juv. 9 . • 



Goldsboro, VII, 25, 1913, (R. & H.), Florida. 



1 juv. cf. Jacksonville, (Priddey; Ashmead), 2 9 , 



Charlotte, VII, 27, 1913, (R. & H.), [He bard Cln.]; XI, 3, 1911, (W. T. 



1 Juv. 9. Davis), 1 juv. 9. 



South Carolina. Pabl ° .Beach, XI, 4, 1911, (W. T. 



r l T n w' l v'tt 6 ' ^Vqi? ,!? 1 9 i h ^ Silve^SpHngs', XI, 25, 1911, (G. P. 

 Columbia, MI, 28, 1913, (R. A: H.), Eng i e £ardt); 2 c? , 19, [B. I. and 



Isle 1 tf Palms, VIII, 15, 1913, (R.), Hebard Cln.]. 



1 juv. 9. 



West Indian material before us and study of the literature has 

 shown that Orocharis saulcyi (Guerin) is a synonym of Orocharis 

 gryllodes (Pallas) ; 181 that West Indian form is known in the United 

 States only from extreme southern Florida. 



The present species was in part correctly recorded by Saussure, 

 but material from the southern States was referred by him'to gryllodes. 

 We have now sufficient material before us to determine that saltator 

 and, in part, gryllodes of Saussure 182 (but not of Pallas) are conspecific. 



It is true that material of the present species from the southern 

 Tinted States often shows a somewhat heavier development with 

 pronotum proportionately more ample, and in such specimens the 

 mediastine vein of the tegmina frequently bears a greater number 

 of branches. These features are, however, by no means constant, 



1 ' Sec [lebarcl, Ent. News, XXVI, p. 168, (1915). 



"Bgee Saussure, Mtiang. Orth., II. p. 75."), (1878). That author has evidently 

 also placed West Indian specimens of the group to which vaginalis belongs (which 

 group probably merits generic distinction) under this name. The present species 

 never develops a green phase as described by that author. 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in specimens from the same locality a remarkable difference in 

 pronotal amplitude in the same sex is often present, 183 while the 

 branching of the mediastine vein is extremely irregular and cannot 

 be relied upon as in any way diagnostic. 184 



The normal coloration of this insect is p^.j and immaculate reddish 

 brown. Some specimens have the occiput, post-ocular portions of 

 the gense and dorsal portions of the lateral lobes of the pronotum 

 infuscated; in others these markings are very dark and the dorsum 

 of the pronotum and the tegmina and limbs are mottled and speckled 

 with the same shade. Frequently in such maculate individuals the 

 general coloration is grayish. 



The species is known on the Atlantic coast as far north as Matawan, 

 New Jersey; it is found far westward of the regions here considered. 



Of the present series we found the young common in undergrowth 

 of deciduous forest (Fredericksburg), young in undergrowth of pine 

 woods (Petersburg), few immature examples in green undergrowth 

 of heavy forest near stream (Weldon), few young in green grasses 

 and weeds in short-leaf pine woods (Goldsboro), on green sprouts in 

 "branch" filled chiefly with gums (Florence), young beaten from 

 bayberry (Isle of Palms), young numerous in undergrowth of dry 

 pine woods (Ashley Junction), young in luxuriant undergrowth of 

 gray-bark pine woods (Isle of Hope) and in bushes apparently killed 

 by a remarkable hymenopterous parasite, Rhopalosonia poeyi Cresson 

 (St. Simon's Island). 



183 In material before us we find the following contrasts in these dimensions : 

 Silver Springs, d", 2.3 by 3.4 and 2.7 by 3.9; Thomasville, Georgia, 9 , 2.4 by 3.6 

 and 2.9 by 3.8 mm. 



184 All or part of the free veins of the lateral field of the tegmina sometimes 

 merge with the mediastine vein at its base, and can then scarcely be distinguished 

 from the normal branches of that vein. The branches of the mediastine vein 

 also bifurcate, though rarely, while distad the vein itself frequently assumes 

 abnormal positions which, in themselves, bring about further differences in the 

 number of branches. The branches of this vein Saussure gives: for saltator, 

 cf 7 to 8, 9 4 to 6; for gryllodes, d" 10 to 11, 9 7 to 10. In our series are males 

 showing 8-9, 9-9 and 8-10 and females showing 5-7 and 6-7 of these branches, 

 such material not being from areas where intergradation would be likely to 

 occur, were geographic races present. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Explanation of Plates XII, XIII, XIV. 



Plate XII. — Fig. 1. — Neotettix proavus new species. Macon, Georgia. Female 

 (type). Lateral outline. (X 5) 



Pig. 2. Same. Female (type). Cephalic outline of head. (X 5) 



Fig. 3. -Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Male. Out- 

 line of cephalic margi' >f dorsum of pronotum (no cusp). (Greatly 

 enlarged.) 



Fig. 4.— Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Male. 

 ( hitline of cephalic margin of dorsum of pronotum (moderately cuspidate). 

 (Greatly enlarged, i 



Fig. 5. — Tettigidea armata Morse. Florence, South Carolina. Male. Out- 

 line of cephalic margin of dorsum of pronotum (strongly cuspidate). 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. (i. — Orphulella halophila new species. Key West, Florida. Female 

 (type). Lateral figure. (X 2) 



Fig. 7. — Same. Female (type). Dorsal outline of head and pronotum. 

 .(X2) 



Fig. 8. — Same. Male (allotype). Dorsal outline of head and pronotum. 

 .(X2) 



Fig. 9. — Spharagemon crepitans (Saussure). St. Simon's Island, Georgia. 

 Male. Dorsal figure. (X 2) 



Fig. 10. — Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Male. Lateral figure. 

 (X2) 



Fig. 11. — Melanoplus nubilus new species. Fayctteville, North Carolina. 

 Male (type). Lateral outline. (X 2) 



Fig. 12. — Melanoplus stegocercus new species. Cannoche River at Grove- 

 land, Georgia. Male (type). Lateral outline. (X 2) 



Fig. 13. — Melanoplus minis new species. Weldon, North Carolina. Male 

 (type). Lateral outline. (X 2) 



Fig. 1-4. — Melanoplus scapularis new species. Jesup, Georgia. Male (type). 

 Lateral outline. (X 2) 



Plate XIII. — The enlargement of the supra-anal plates is about 10 times, of 

 the cerci about 25 times and of the subgenital plates about 10 times. 



Fig. 1. — M elanoplus decorus Scudder. Winter Park, North Carolina. Male. 



Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 2. — Same. Winter Park, North Carolina. Male. Lateral outline 



of cercus. 

 Fig. 3. — Melanoplus australis Morse. Isle of Hope, Georgia. Male. 



Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 4. — Same. Isle of Hope, Georgia. Male. Lateral outline of cercus. 

 Fig. 5. — Melanoplus att< nuatus Scudder. Magnolia, South Carolina. Male. 



Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 6. — Same. Magnolia, South Carolina. Male. Lateral outline of 



cercus. 

 Fig. 7. — Melanoplus hebardi (Rehn). Tyty Plantation, Thomas County, 



Georgia. Male (type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 8. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus. 

 Fig. 9. — Melanoplus nubilus new species. Fayctteville, North Carolina. 



Male (type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 10. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus. 

 Fig. 11. — Melanoplus stegocercus new species. Cannoche River at Grove- 

 land, Georgia. Male (type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate. 

 Fig. 12. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus. 

 Fig. 13. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of subgenital plate. 

 Fig. 14. — Melauii/ilus mints new species. Weldon, North Carolina. Male 



(type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate. 

 Fig. 15. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus. 

 Fig. 16. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of subgenital plate. 

 Fig. 17. — Melanoplus scapularis new species. Jesup, Georgia. Male 



(type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Fig. 18. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus. 



Fig. 19. — Melanoplus strumosus Morse. Currahee Mountain, Georgia. 



Male. Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate and furcula. 

 Fig. 20. — Same. Currahee Mountain, Georgia. Male. Lateral outline 



of cercus. 

 Fig. 21. — Same. Currahee Mountain, Georgia. Male. Lateral outline 



of subgenital plate. _ 



Plate XIV. — Fig. 1. — Melanoplus quemeus new species. Thomasville, Georgia. 



Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus (X 5) 

 Fig. 2. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline of cercus and subgenital 



plate. (XU) 

 Fig. 3. — Same. Male (type). Dorsal figure of supra-anal plate. (X 5) 

 Fig. 4. — Scapteriseus vicinus Scudder. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. 



Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X 4§) 

 Fig. 5. — Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. Dorsal figure of 



pronotum. (X 2) 

 Fig. 6. — Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. Lateral outline 



(external) of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 

 Fig. 7. — Same. St. Simon's Island, Georgia. Female. Lateral outline 



(internal) of spatula. ( X 4|) 

 Fig. 8. — Scapteriseus acletus new species. Hebardville, Georgia. Male 



(type). Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X 4|) 

 Fig. 9. — Same. Male (type). Dorsal figure. (X 2) 

 Fig. 10. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline (external) of distal joint 



of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 

 Fig. 11. — Same. Male (type). Lateral outline (internal) of spatula. 



(X4|) 

 Fig. 12. — SrapUriscusmexicanus (Burmeister). Durango, Mexico. Female. 



Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X 4 \) 

 Fig. 13. — Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Dorsal figure of pronotum. 



(X2) 

 Fig. 14. — Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Lateral outline (external) 



of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 

 Fig. 15. — Same. Durango, Mexico. Female. Lateral outline (internal) 



of spatula. (X 4|) 

 Fig. 16. — Scapteriseus abbreviatus Scudder. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. 



Female. Lateral outline (internal) of dactyls of cephalic tibia. (X 4-i) 

 Fig. 17. — Same. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. Female. Dorsal figure 



of pronotum. (X 2) 

 Fig. 18. — Same. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. Female. Lateral out- 

 line (external) of distal joint of caudal tarsus and claws. (X 4) 

 'Fig. 19. — Same. Musa Isle near Miami, Florida. Female. Lateral out- 

 line (internal) of spatula. (X 4|) 

 Fig. 20. — Anaxipha pulicaria (Burmeister). Beaumont, Texas. Male. 



Cephalic figure of head. (Nearly X 5) 

 Fig. 21. — Anaxipha vitlata (Bolivar). Atlantic Beach, Florida. Male. 



Cephalic figure of head. (Nearly X 5) 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XII. 



REHN and HEBARD: STUDIES IN DERMAPTERA AND ORTHOPTERA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XIII. 



REHN and HEBARD: STUDIES IN DERMAFTERA AND ORTHOPTERA 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191G. 



PLATE XIV 



REHN AND HEBARD: STUDIES IN DERMAPTERA AND ORTHOPTERA. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



HUNTING MOLLUSCA IN UTAH AND IDAHO. 

 BY JUNIUS HENDERSON AND L. E. DANIELS. 



The investigations of Hemphill prior to 1890 in Idaho and north- 

 eastern Utah, made that region classic ground in western American 

 conchology. ( >wing to the existence of many small mountain ranges, 

 in most instances conchologically unexplored, isolated by great 

 expanses of arid territory wholly unfavorable to the larger land 

 snails, in western Utah, Idaho, and Nevada, that area is an attractive 

 field, and some of us have viewed it with longing. It is likely that 

 every range not yet explored will yield one form or more of Oreohelix 

 new to science. Indeed, we found a very interesting new form very 

 close to one of Hemphill's localities, and in the same range. Probably 

 Utah is approximately the center of distribution of the genus 

 Oreohelix, and a thorough understanding of its forms and their 

 distribution and habits may throw considerable light upon general 

 problems of distribution of plants and animals in the Rocky Moun- 

 tains and Great Basin, a thing devoutly to be wished. Before 

 beginning serious work upon the unexplored ranges, it seemed to us 

 important to clear up" some of the many difficulties arising from a 

 critical study of Hemphill's records and collections, in order to reach 

 a better understanding of his species and varieties. He explored 

 particularly the western edge of the Wasatch mountains and their 

 spurs bordering the Great Salt Lake Basin on the east, thence north- 

 ward into Idaho and southwestward to the Oquirrh Mountains, 

 which extend southward from the southern end of Salt Lake. His 

 published localities are exceedingly indefinite, as applied to snails 

 of a genus whose colonies are usually of very limited extent and 

 whose varieties are in many instances limited in their known range 

 to the type locality. They were found to be even more indefinite 

 in the field than they looked on paper. In the collections he dis- 

 tributed the labels are still more vague and sometimes misleading. 

 However, we obtained material from somewhere near some of his 

 stations, at least. 



Inconsistencies in the descriptions and figures of material collected 



by Hemphill render the determination of some of the snails of the 



region difficult. We have been greatly assisted in this work by the 



loan to the University of Colorado, by Dr. Geo. H. Clapp, of his two 



22 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



fine series of Hemphill's varieties, which have been critically examined 

 by one of the authors. The other author has some of Hemphill's 

 material in his own collection. 



One of Mr. Clapp's collections was formerly owned by Mrs. Geo. 

 Andrews. The shells in this series are mounted on 57 blue cards 

 bearing the printed legend "Genus Pyramidula. Group of Pyra- 

 midula alternata." White printed slips pasted below the specimens, 

 use the generic name Helix instead of Pyramidula, and all of the 

 Oreohelices are labelled as varieties of P. alternata. All of the printed 

 labels for the Utah material give the localities merely as "near Salt 

 Lake," evidently meaning the lake itself, not the city of that name. 

 Included in that vague locality are shells that undoubtedly came 

 from as widely separated areas as the Oquirrh mountains on the 

 south and Franklin, Idaho, on the north. This collection seems to 

 have been made up during or after 1890, as it includes forms described 

 that year. The other series was purchased by Dr. Clapp directly 

 from Hemphill in 1896, at 25c per lot, 153 trays of two specimens 

 each. The printed labels in this series designate all the Oreohelices 

 as varieties of Helix strigosa, and the locality stated for all the Utah 

 material is simply "Utah," but in most instances more definite 

 localities, such as "Box Elder Co.," "near Ogden" and "near Salt 

 Lake," have been added with pen and ink. 1 



The soft anatomy of each lot of Oreohelix collected alive, with a 

 few exceptions, has been studied by Dr. Pilsbry, whose comments 

 may be found in a separate paper prepared by him. We are also 

 greatly indebted to him for aid in identification of some of our 

 material, and for advice in clearing up difficulties in nomenclature 

 and the literature of the subject. 



The authors met, by appointment, at Eureka, Utah, on August 

 26, 1915, and worked northward into the edge of Idaho, finishing the 

 field work on September 17. Mr. Daniels had visited Stations 

 1, 1§, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on his way down from Montana to the rendezvous, 

 but we both afterwards visited No. 5, dividing it into three stations, 

 namely 30, 31 and 32, besides visiting others in the same vicinity. 

 The main object of the expedition was to study the Oreohelices, and 

 as our time was limited, but little of it was spent in the search for 

 other genera. 



1 Some of the earlier sets sent out by Hemphill, such as that in the museum 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, have practically the same 

 data on the labels that were given by him in Binney's Supplement and The 

 Nautilus; most of the labels being printed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 317 



Limestone is common at almost every locality visited, this being 

 a favorable condition for Oreohelix. The edges of coarse, angular 

 limestone talus protected from rapid evaporation by overhanging 



1 tushes, formed the cover for some of the finest colonies we have seen, 

 the snails occupying crevices among the rocks. At other localities 

 they were abundant under vegetation on limestone slopes totally 

 devoid of talus, and in a few instances they were found in talus where 

 no limestone was observed, though it is almost certain that the soil 

 or rock must have contained a fair percentage of lime in such cases. 

 As some forms were discovered at but one or two stations, we could 

 not determine whether each form chooses definitely a particular 

 kind of cover, but the widely-distributed depressa is found 

 indifferently under either rock or vegetative cover. The kind of 

 vegetation did not seem to be important except as affecting its value 

 as a cover to protect the snails from the sun's rays. 



In the lots obtained after the first few days of September very 

 few embryos were found. This is unfortunate, as the sculpture 

 and shape of the embryonic whorls are important in classification 

 and they are often much worn in adults. The summer was hot and 

 extremely dry and snails of course were dormant — over ninety days 

 without measurable rain. After the rains commenced on September 



2 they became active and filled with water, and large numbers were 

 found in copulation. 



A very noticeable feature of the season's catch is the great difference 

 in the color banding of various colonies of what would otherwise be 

 considered the same form. The protean 0. peripherica (Ancey) is a 

 remarkable example, but scarcely less noteworthy than 0. s. depressa 

 (Ckll.) and some others. The important fact is that where the 

 banding is weak or wanting on some specimens and strong on others 

 from the same colony, the faintness or absence of bands is most pro- 

 nounced on the last whorl. This would be interpreted, under the 

 recapitulation theory, to indicate that the color banding is an ancient 

 character of this genus and is in process of disappearing. 



The question of recognizing subspecies, varieties and color forms 

 is an ever-recurring one in this genus, many of whose species vary 

 greatly in color, form and sculpture. The practice in American 

 ornithology and mammalogy is to give subspecific rank to geographic 

 races where the great majority of examples in one area differ in the 

 same direction and degree from those of another area. The presence 

 of a smaller number of intergrading forms within the range of either 

 and especially along the common border prohibits specific rank, 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the constancy or lack of constancy of characters determining the 

 rank. This method, though requiring a zoological map for the 

 identification of some individuals, seems the most satisfactory way 

 to deal with such cases, where most of the examples from a given 

 area clearly fall into a given subspecies, comparatively few failing 

 to conform; but where mere average characters are used for the 

 separation of such forms, and especially where abnormal specimens 

 are selected and named, it is surely objectionable unless some term 

 is used to indicate a rank lower than subspecies. Professor Cockerell 

 some time ago 2 suggested the use of the term "mutation" to designate 

 sporadic variations from modification of the germ-plasm, "form" 

 for variations resulting from the immediate effect of environment 

 upon the individual, and "variety" for all other variations of lower 

 rank than subspecies. Such use of the terms "mutant" and "form" 

 would imply much greater knowledge of causes of variation than we 

 usually possess. It involves too much guessing as to the cause of a 

 particular variation in a particular case, and in most cases it is 

 impracticable to solve the problem by careful experimentation; 

 indeed, sometimes perhaps impossible. On the other hand, the 

 term "variety" is very confusing because it is so variously used. 

 As is pointed out in the article just refrered to, well-known naturalists 

 use it as an exact synonym of "subspecies" and also as a synonym 

 of "form" and "mutant." This was true of Hemphill and Binney, 

 but we should have progressed since their time. Some forms desig- 

 nated varieties by those gentlemen are so distinct that nowadays no 

 naturalist would hesitate to give them full specific rank. On the 

 other hand, however, Hemphill in several cases selected abnormal 

 specimens from a colony and gave them several varietal names, 

 and was not always even consistent in the use of such names in 

 sorting his material for distribution. Had he made it clear in just 

 what instances his varieties were so selected, and in what cases they 

 were really from quite distinct colonies and fairly represented the 

 colonies, it would be easier for us now. If, for example, his oquir- 

 rhensis and gabbiana were from separate colonies as indicated by his 

 notes and partially confirmed by our material, most of the material 

 from one colony conforming to one type and most of it from the 

 other colony conforming to the other type, we should be justified 

 in con?idering them two subspecies, notwithstanding intergrading 

 examples in either colony. In some cases we can only determine the 



"-Nautilus, XX, 58-60. 




1.916,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



question by additional field work, and that is rendered more difficult 

 by the vagueness of his locality data. Sometimes we arc aided by a 

 careful reading of all the text of his descriptions. Thus, in reading 

 the descriptions of his 0. subcarinata, bicolor and lacteal one without 

 access to his material might well suppose that he was describing 

 really distinct subspecies from separate colonies in the same region, 

 but to his description of lactea he added a note to the effect that 

 "the above varieties represent a colony of the largest specimens of 

 the strigosa group," etc. From an examination of some of Hemp- 

 hill's material one of the present authors decided that they were not 

 separable before lie noticed that note, and Hemphill was certainly 

 not consistent in sorting these "varieties" for distribution. One 

 might be pardoned, then, for suspecting that his jugalis and intersum, 

 both from the "banks of the Salmon River," represent a similar 

 instance, but an examination of a small amount of material under 

 those names in Clapp's Hemphill collection indicates that they may 

 be distinct and from different colonies. 



In dealing with land snails of the semi-arid region, with their limited 

 locomotive powers and prohibitive environmental barriers between 

 colonies, a colony may be the equivalent of a geographic race or 

 subspecies in other classes of animals. The fact that we do not 

 perceive environmental differences in different colonies which would 

 result in geographic races, may merely represent our ignorance of 

 certain factors or of their importance in snail life. Some perfectly 

 good species and subspecies are known from only one locality. It 

 follows, then, from the foregoing remarks, that if nearly all of the 

 members of a colony or group of colonies vary in the same direction 

 and approximately to the same degree from other colonies occupied 

 by the nearest known relatives, but sporadic individuals of the one 

 are found with the other, then one may perhaps be justified in 

 considering them different subspecies. When not fully satisfied 

 that the difference is of a kind or sufficient in degree to be entitled 

 to specific or subspecific rank, the varietal name may be preceded 

 by the word "form," to distinguish it from a subspecies. There are 

 certain characters which are of doubtful value at all times as sub- 

 specific characters, unless accompanied by other differences. Such, 

 for example, is size, which may be greatly influenced in one or more 

 colonies or portions of colonies by exceptionally favorable or unfavor- 

 able conditions, as where examples from the midst of a dense thicket 



Nautilus, III, 133-134. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



are larger than those from the edge of the thicket where cover is 

 poor and periods of activity and growth fewer or shorter. A great 

 many, if not all, mere color variations may fall into the same class, 

 though sometimes color differences may be correlated with other 

 undiscovered differences. As for selecting abnormal specimens 

 which completely grade into the typical form in the same colony 

 and giving to them varietal names, as was done by Hemphill and is 

 now being done by various authors, the value to science of such a 

 practice is doubtful. 



Colton, 4 in discussing the genus Lymncea, protests against its 

 generic subdivision, but adds: "Species and minor groups on the 

 other hand cannot be too much subdivided. It is an advance to 

 describe every variation that can be distinguished." Probably no 

 one would object to the describing of all distinguishable variations, 

 but there is room for grave difference of opinion as to the advisability 

 of naming all such variations, which Colton seems to advocate in 

 quoting with apparent approval the following from Bateson: "They 

 will serve science best by giving names freely and by describing 

 everything to which their successors may possibly want to refer and 

 generally by subdividing their material into as many species as they 

 can induce any responsible society or journal to publish." It is 

 quite possible to carry the naming of species and varieties altogether 

 too far, especially in such a genus as Oreohelix. One may easily, 

 by taking averages of color, form and size, make a score of colonies 

 of 0. strigosa depressa into as many distinct varieties, which, when 

 seen in the mass and compared with each other, could be vaguely 

 distinguished, but when compared with all the colonies from which 

 we have collections would be quite indistinguishable, and not at all 

 distinguishable from each other with only a few specimens in hand. 

 Of such is Hemphill's "var. carnea." 



A nearly complete suite of the material upon which this report is 

 based has been placed in the cabinet of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. 



The Tintic Mountains. 



This is a range of irregular outlines covering considerable territory 

 just west of central Utah. It was hitherto conchologically unex- 

 plored, and as we spent but one afternoon collecting here and made 

 but one station, it would doubtless well repay further exploration, 



4 Nautilus, XXVIII, 118. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



especially the western spurs, which we did not visit, and which are 

 further from territory thus far explored. Tintic folio, U. S. Geol. 

 Surv., covers the Eureka district. 



Oreohelix oooperi (W. G. B.) 



Sta. 6, on north side of Godiva Mountain, in Eureka, Utah, on a 

 slope of Paleozoic limestone, under shrubs and other vegetation, a 

 few under angular blocks of limestone, no good rock slides exposed. 

 A small form of this species is abundant here. We at first thought 

 it might prove to be new, but it differs from typical cooperi of other 

 localities only in its size, and, in average examples, a more nearly 

 pure white ground color. The latter character, however, is quite 

 variable here, but the size is unusually uniform, averaging about 

 14.5 mm., and varying scarcely a millimeter therefrom, one way or 

 the other. 



Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis new subspecies. PL XV, figs. 7, 8. 



Shell small, sublenticular; spire slightly elevated; whorls 4§ to 

 4|, strongly carinated at the periphery, the carina having a tendency 

 to disappear toward the aperture of adults; whorls rounded above, 

 sloping roundly in to the suture so as to form an excavated suture, 

 and on the other hand sloping flatly to the periphery; transverse 

 sculpture well marked, irregular; spiral sculpture consists, in the 

 type, of 6 minute, beaded lines below the periphery, with very indis- 

 tinct lines in the interspaces and in the edge of the umbilicus; similar 

 sculpture above, but not so well defined nor so plainly of two grades; 

 on the cotypes the lines are not so well defined and not so plainly 

 of two grades below; umbilicus wide, exhibiting all the volutions; 

 apical whorls brown, very dark brown in the type, changing to dirty 

 white on the last whorl; two very obscure dark spiral bands, one 

 above, the other barely below the periphery. Type, in Univ. of 

 Colo. Museum, greater diam. 9.7, lesser 8.8, alt. 5.5. Cotype, in 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., greater diam. 9.3, lesser 8.5, alt. 6.5. 



Type locality, Sta. 6, Eureka, Utah, 7 specimens, all dead shells, 

 associated with 0. cooperi. The type and cotype are adults, and 

 one specimen in L. E. Daniels' collection probably fully adult but 

 with the peristome partly broken away. These specimens were all 

 submitted to Dr. Pilsbry, who writes as follows: "I at first thought 

 your little species from Eureka was 0. carinifera, but on further study 

 I am wholly of the opinion that it is a small subspecies of 0. hemphilli. 

 It differs chiefly by its smaller size and fewer whorls, the sculpture, 

 color and degree of carination being practically identical. 0. hemp- 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



hilli has the last embryonic whorl a trifle concave near the periphery, 

 where yours is only flattened, but the difference is not great. 0. 

 carinifera has the embryonic whorls well rounded throughout, above; 

 it is more depressed and the keel is decidedly pinched out on the last 

 whorl. It may turn out to be another subspecies of hemphilli, 

 but with present collections I hardly think so. I do not know what 

 form Binney identified as hemphilli from Colorado. My comparisons 

 were with the figured type and a young one of the original lot. " 



The Oquirrh Mountains. 



This range extends southward from the southern end of Great 

 Salt Lake. Hemphill visited the west side of the range, 5 and reported 

 a very interesting series of finds, with 0. utahensis at the foot of the 

 mountains, 0. oquirrhensis a short distance up the mountain side, 

 then along the mountain side across a ravine the typical haydeni and 

 gabbiana, and near the summit a few haydeni and two cooperi. We 

 searched the canyons around Tooele without finding any of these 

 forms. Then we proceeded to Garfield and worked southward along 

 the west side of the range for many miles and only found one species, 

 at stations 14 and 15. Material labelled haydeni in Clapp's Hemphill 

 collection does not appear to belong to that species. 



Station 11, cottonwood grove at picnic grounds just within mouth 

 of gulch southeast of Tooele from which gulch the town obtains its 

 water supply. 



Paludesirina longinqua (Gould), abundant in water-cress. 



Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pils.. 14 specimens. 



Euconulus sp., 1 juvenile. 



Vitrina alaskana Dall, 2 dead shells. 



Zonitoides arborea Say, 3 specimens. 



Pupilla blandi Morse, 1 specimen. 



Station 12, up the canyon a short distance above Station 11, in 

 rock slide, mostly quartzitic sandstone. 



Vitrina alaskana Dall, 3 specimens. 



Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pils., 3 specimens. 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata (Ckll.), 12 specimens. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) common. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 12 (see above) ; Sta. 13, about a mile above Sta. 12, on south 

 side, under mountain maple leaves. These two lots are typical in 



6 Binney's 2nd Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., pp. 29-34. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



form, sculpture, color and size, as compared with average examples 

 from Colorado, with two strong color bands, one barely below the 

 periphery, the other well above. Probably all or nearly all of 

 Hemphill's Utah records of 0. strigosa (Gould) should be referred to 

 this subspecies. This is true of the material labelled strigosa in 

 Clapp's Hemphill collection. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa, form tooelensis new form. 



This form differs from depressa chiefly in the color, which is almost 

 invariably a dead, chalky white, in all the material from three 

 colonies northeast of Tooele, Utah, giving the specimens the appear- 

 ance of dead, weathered shells, in this respect quite unlike the colonies 

 of depressa from southeast of Tooele and elsewhere. Shell depressed 

 (in a few examples quite elevated); whorls 5 to 5f, convex; suture 

 well impressed; spiral stria? minute; transverse sculpture slightly 

 less pronounced than in typical depressa, especially below; color 

 bands narrow, sometimes strongly marked, but usually rather faint 

 or wanting, one barely below and the other well above the periphery, 

 strong on immature examples; first embryonic whorl smooth, second 

 anil third minutely transversely striate, with numerous spiral stria? 

 rippling the transverse sculpture above and below and increasing in 

 strength with the growth of the whorls. Type, in the University 

 of Colorado Museum, greater diam. 19 mm., lesser 16.5 mm., alt. 

 11.5 mm. Co-type, in Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 greater diam. 19.6 mm., lesser 17.2 mm., alt. 11.4 mm. Co-type, in 

 L. E. Daniels' collection, greater diam. 23 mm., lesser 20 mm., alt. 

 13.5 mm. This form also slightly differs from typical depressa in 

 anatomy, according to Dr. Pilsbry, but this is a variable feature. 

 The presence sporadically of white examples in depressa and other 

 colonies of Oreohelix belonging to the strigosa group, even though 

 not the dead white which characterizes this form, makes it inadvisable 

 to give this subspecific rank, notwithstanding the fact that the 

 color in these colonies is constant, unless other differences are found 

 which are also constant. Abundant at stations 7, 8, 9 and 10, in 

 the small gulches about six miles northeast of Tooele, north of the 

 smelter, under grass and other vegetation about limestone ledges. 

 Four sinistral specimens were found. 



Oreohelix haydeni gabbiana (Hemphill). PI. XVI, fig. 3. 



Patula strigosa var. gabbiana Hemphill, per Binnev, 2nd Suppl. to 5th 

 Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., pp. 30, 34, PI. II, fig. 9, 1886. 



St a. 14, mountain side southwest of Garfield (southeast of Black 

 Rock) west side of Oquirrh Mts., under bushes, on limestone. The 




324 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



locality had been burned over some years ago, and though the 

 shrubbery had re-established itself, we found no live snails. The 

 "bones" had been long dead. A more thorough search would 

 likely disclose live ones in the neighborhood, as fires usually leave 

 "islands" where such species may be preserved alive. Dead shells 

 were fairly plentiful. A careful conchological survey of this whole 

 range would probably prove profitable. Especially should Hemp- 

 hill's "haydeni," oquirrhensis and utahensis from this vicinity be 

 investigated. 



Sta. 15, south side of a gulch south of Sta. 14, nearly east of Morris, 

 under shrubbery and other vegetation about limestone ledges, 

 not under rocks. This locality had been very recently burned over 

 and the fire was still raging to the southward. We found numerous 

 examples of this species on the burned ground, in a crumbly con- 

 dition owing to the heat, but in a few small patches of brush 

 untouched by the fire we found about thirty live ones. It is not 

 improbable that the gulch where the fire was burning is the Hemp- 

 hill locality. 



The examples from Sta. 14 are old and much weathered, so that 

 the sculpture is obscure on most of them, but where preserved it is 

 the same as in those from Sta. 15, though the carina is not so pro- 

 nounced on the average, and they vary more in size and altitude. 

 This is a strongly carinated form, otherwise resembling Hemphill's 

 variety hydrida, from Logan. In the best specimens the revolving 

 riblets may be seen with the naked eye, with revolving threads 

 in the interspaces visible under a lens, the intersections of these rib- 

 lets and threads with the irregular transverse riblets, give to it a 

 knobbed appearance as seen under a lens. This sculpture is charac- 

 teristic of the haydeni group. The primary revolving riblets, six 

 or eight in number, are rather regularly spaced, especially below. 

 Most of our specimens are under 16 mm. in diameter, but the largest 

 one measured is 22 mm., and has two rather strong color bands, 

 one barely below and the other well above the periphery. 



The Provo District. 



Provo is south of Salt Lake City and at the base of the same range 

 of mountains, hence it is not surprising to find the same species 

 common here. Hemphill reported "typical strigosa and cooperi, 

 large and small," from this locality. Doubtless his strigosa was 

 depressa. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 44, visited by Daniels only, Rock Canyon, due east of Provo, 

 in limestone slides bordered by oak brush. Many examples with 

 the color bands faint or wanting, a few strongly banded. Two 

 sinistral shells were found. Shows same anatomical peculiarity as 

 at Tooele. St a. 7. 



Sta. 45, visited by Daniels only, Slate Canyon, first one south of 

 Sta. 44, limestone slides bordered by scrub oak brush. Banding 

 even less prominent than at Sta. 44. 



The Salt Lake City District. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 46, about a mile up Emigration Canyon, southeast of Salt 

 Lake City, south side of canyon, under mountain maples and other 

 vegetation in fine limestone slide rock. This is a strongly banded 

 form whose anatomy, according to Dr. Pilsbry, agrees with that of 

 depressa from Colorado Springs and other localities, as well as from 

 our stations 2 (near McCammon, Idaho) and 28 (near Brigham, 

 Utah). The shells, however, of this lot and those from Sta. 2 differ 

 markedly from those of typical depressa from Durango, Morrison, 

 Steamboat Springs and other Colorado localities. Their relative 

 altitude and the altitude of their whorls in proportion to the trans- 

 verse diameter are much greater, and they scarcely show any of the 

 peripheral subcarination in front of the aperture so common, indeed 

 almost universal, in Colorado shells of this subspecies. On the 

 other hand, however, other lots from elsewhere in Utah, notably 

 near Ogden, appear to grade this lot quite well into typical depressa, 

 so that, from any information we now have, we do not dare to make 

 any separation. Oreohelices usually differ in relative altitude within 

 any given species or subspecies, and only the uniformity of the 

 increased altitude in this colony makes us hesitate. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckli.). "var. carnea" (Hemph.). 



Patiiln, strigosa var. carnea Hemphill, Nautilus, IV, 15, 1890. Binney, 

 4th Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., p. 174, 1892. 



Sta. 43, Dry Canyon, about a mile from the University of Utah, 

 near Salt Lake City, in scrub oak and mountain maple thickets on 

 limestone, visited by Henderson in company with William McArthur. 

 This form was found abundantly here, the color bands faint or 

 wanting on most examples, but quite strong on a few. On an average 

 the specimens have a higher spire than typical depressa, but many 

 of them are well depressed. The description of depressa appeared 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



in the same magazine in January, 1890, the reference to Binney's 

 figure seeming to make it a good description, thus antedating carnea 

 by five months. 0. var. carnea is not a well-marked variety, and 

 the question of making it a subspecies, or a mere color variety, or 

 rejecting the name altogether, may be purely a matter of opinion, 

 but it is not quite typical depressa. 



Hemphill records "typical strigosa and cooperi, both large and 

 small," from near Salt Lake City. 



The Ogden District. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 20, about eight miles up Ogden Canyon, east of Ogden, in 

 rock slide below a limestone ledge at southwest end of a railroad 

 bridge, south side of creek. Large, fine specimens, abundant, 

 strongly banded, some measuring over 26 mm., a few very dark- 

 colored. Professor Cockerell says this is the sort of snail he called 

 "form major." 6 



Sta. 21, north side of creek, \ to \ mile below Sta. 20, under moun- 

 tain maples, a few large specimens, up to 26 mm., and up slope in 

 rock slide, the same form abundant, but averaging smaller, about 

 21 mm. 



Sta. 22, south side of creek, half a mile further down, in slide of 

 limestone and a micaceous rock, same subspecies, large, exceedingly 

 abundant. Also half a mile further down under similar conditions. 

 Dr. Pilsbry says of the Oreohelix from this station. "This lot is 

 representative of a race of strigosa slightly differing from depressa 

 in anatomy. The shells seem to me to differ by being less sharply 

 striate, but were it not for the genital difference I would probably 

 not have noticed this." A later letter, however, says that two lots 

 afterwards examined seem intermediate, so that the argument from 

 the anatomy is weakened, and there is no appreciable difference in 

 the shell characters. The same anatomical differences he noted for 

 stations 7, 10 and 13, near Tooele. 



Sta. 23, further down creek on south side, opposite thick deposit 

 of consolidated Quaternary gravel, in gneissic slide rock and adjacent 

 bushes, with limestone showing far up slope at top of canyon wall, 

 from which the wash is down over the slide. The same subspecies 

 of Oreohelix, abundant, mostly rather high-spired. 



At Sta. 22 we found also one of each of the following species : 



6 See Nautilus, III, 102. 




1016.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Suceinea avara Say. 



Thysanophora ingersolli (Bland). 



Agriolimux aimpc.slris (Binney). 



It may be well to add that this canyon is the type locality of 

 Vertigo corpulenta parietalis (Ancey), and that Hemphill's Patula 

 striatella from here is probably Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonyi Pils. 



Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.). ?. PI. XVI, fig. 2. 



Patula sir it/"*' ' var. buttonii Hemphill, in Binney's 3rd Suppl. to 5th Vol. 

 Terr. Moll. U. S., p. 220, 1S90, Box Elder Co., Utah. Binney, 4th Suppl. 

 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. V. S., p. 171, PI. I, Bgs. 2 and 10, 1892. 



Stations 16, 17, 18 and 19, Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, south of 

 Ogden Canyon, under poison ivy, elderberry, mountain maple and 

 other shrubbery about limestone ledges, the farthest station being 

 about half a mile up the canyon, and 19 being just outside the canyon 

 and to the south, at an old lime kiln. Color light brown to nearly 

 white, color bands from very faint to strong, varying somewhat in 

 width. 



Sta. 24, half hour's walk below Gateway, in Weber Canyon, 

 southeast of Ogden, Utah, on south side of canyon in gneiss slide rock, 

 no limestone seen, and another similar slide half a mile farther down. 



Sta. 25, about half mile above mouth of Weber Canyon, south 

 side, south of canal, 400 to 500 yards below Utah Light and Railway 

 Co.'s power plant, in a similar slide. 



Dr. Pilsbry has examined material from all these stations except 

 19, and identified it as above. Many examples have strong spiral 

 color bands, and nearly all from 17 have. Otherwise they agree 

 well with those under this name in Clapp's Hemphill collection. 

 The tooth on the columellar margin is very often absent. 



At Sta. 17 we also found Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey). PI. XV, fig. l. 



Sta. 26, west side of gulch which comes into North Ogden Canyon 

 half a mile or so above its mouth, abundant in scrub oak and other 

 brush on hard sandstone and conglomerate overlaid by limestone, 

 but not found in rock slide. This species and its varieties are more 

 fully discussed under the Cache Junction District. At Sta. 26 the 

 specimens collected average larger and smoother, but present the 

 usual variation in size, as well as in the coarseness of sculpture and 

 elevation of the spire. Many are plain, others with two narrow- 

 bands, either faint (especially on the last whorl) or well-marked. 

 but none here with the broad, nearly black bands and white periphery 

 of the albofasciata type, though some show a very slight tendency in 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



that direction, while a few have a faint chestnut tinge suffusing the 

 whole shell, suggesting a tendency to approach the form castaneus. 

 Two reversed examples were found. 



The Brigham District. 



At Sta. 27, at a spring beside a poplar grove just outside the 

 mouth of the first canyon north of Brigham, Utah, in a thin film of 

 water flowing over small rocks, we found a small form of Physa, 

 which is tentatively identified as P. cooperi Tryon (?) by Mr. Bryant 

 Walker, who adds: "Though slightly larger, these agree very well 

 with some from California named by Hannibal." 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 28, up the steep canyon east of Sta. 27, in sandstone and 

 limestone slides at edge of small mountain maple and oak thickets 

 and other shrubbery. Conditions were not very favorable and 

 specimens were rather scarce and small, not running above 19 mm. 

 in diameter. 



The Cache Junction District. 



We include in this district the Wheelon, Clarkston and Newton 

 stations, as they are all within a few miles of Cache Junction, Utah, 

 and most of them produced some form of Oreohelix peripherica 

 (Ancey), which we wish to discuss somewhat fully. At the stations 

 south and west of the Junction we found the most interesting colonies 

 of Oreohelix we have ever visited. Hemphill collected the same 

 forms not very far from our stations, and recorded and distributed 

 them variously as from the "banks of Bear river, 'North of Brigham, " 

 or simply "Box Elder County, Utah." Our stations 29, 30, 31 and 

 32 are close to the Bear River, in Cache County, just east of the 

 Box Elder County line. Indeed, 29 may be really within Box 

 Elder County. Stations 33 and 34 are just west of the line in Box 

 Elder County, and likewise close to the river. 



Hemphill camped on the "banks of the Bear River," north of 

 Brigham, where the valley "was considerably broken by mountain 

 spurs, through one of which the river had cut its way, leaving high, 

 rocky cliffs on either side, with scattered clumps of bushes along 

 the river and on the edges of the bluffs." Wheelon is located just 

 where the river leaves the gorge, our Sta. 33 is not far below Wheelon, 

 34 within the gorge above Wheelon, 30, 31 and 32 just within the 

 upper part of the gorge, 29 on the bank of the river just above the 

 entrance to the gorge, while Cache Junction itself is in the valley 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



perhaps a couple of miles up the river from the gorge. A careful 

 consideration of the topography and biological conditions, in con- 

 nection with Hemphill's notes, convinced us that his cam]) was jusl 

 below Wheelon, for in his search for Oreohelix he would surely have 

 camped close to the mountains, the valley here being quite unfavora- 

 ble to land snails. His first find was "on the brow of the bluff 

 and the slope towards the river," evidently near his camp and 

 surely not far from our Sta. 33. There he found his 0. binneyi, 

 "all plain white." Binney adds, "no revolving bands of color," 

 but his figure seems to indicate one faint, narrow peripheral band. 

 Next he found, apparently near by, "in a clump of bushes among 

 leaves and brush," his variety albofasdata, shell "clouded, with 

 the broad, revolving white band at the periphery. None in the 

 bushes were white." (Later, he modified and extended the descrip- 

 tion, with an added figure.) At the various stations where we 

 found typical albofasdata our experience was quite the reverse. 

 We found at some stations the unhanded and narrowly-banded 

 forms without albofasdata, but nowhere did we find albofasdata 

 without a large proportion of the unhanded and narrowly-banded 

 forms, a peculiarity of distribution reminding one of such instances 

 as the sinistral forms of Papilla hebes and syngenes, and the bigranata 

 form of P. muscorum, which may be found in either pure or mixed 

 colonies. There are reasons for surmising that Hemphill sorted 

 his material in the field and wrote his published notes long afterward 

 from memory, which, if it be the case, may account for the dis- 

 crepancy in our finds. Then at the rocky cliffs three miles from 

 camp, presumably somewhere near our stations 30, 31, 32 and 34, 

 he found binneyi among the bushes, and "the ribbed variety casta- 

 neas" (Binney's figs. 11 and 14), "on a mossy, grassy slope directly 

 at the foot of a high cliff," a spot which he says was continually 

 shaded from the sun throughout the day. Across a ravine at the 

 foot of another cliff, in wild rye, he found gouldi (Binney's figs. 5 and 

 16), all small, this form having two narrow dark bands, according 

 to the figures. All these forms are transversely ribbed. At every 

 station we found them intermingled, enormously variable in size, 

 shape, color and sculpture, so completely grading together that we 

 were compelled to believe them to belong to one protean species, 

 and the same as Ancey's previously described peripherica, a con- 

 clusion reached also by Dr. Pilsbry some time ago. 7 



7 Nautilus, XXVII, 153. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



[Patula strigosa] var. newcombi was named without description 

 by Binney in 1885 (Man. Amer. L. Shells, p. 481), designating U. S. 

 Natl. Mus. Nos. 39,023 and 39,025 to 39,038, from "near Ogden, " 

 "Wasatch Mountains" and "Box Elder Canyon." In his Second 

 Suppl. Terr. Moll., 1886, he figured and briefly described it, hence 

 the name is valid only from that date. The description and figures 

 indicate much fewer and more widely spaced ribs than any of our 

 material from that region. 0. wasatchensis (Hemph.) may connect 

 up with peripherica as a subspecies, through newcombi, but it is 

 doubtful, and until that problem can be investigated it seems better 

 to consider it a full species. 

 Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey). PI. XV, figs, l, 2, 3, 4 



Helix idahoensis Newcomb, var. peripherica Ancey, he Naturaliste, IV, 



403, 1881. 

 Patula strigosa; vars. binneyi, multicostata, gouldi, albofasciata and cast, mat* 



Hemphill, in Binney's 2nd Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., pp. 29-32, 



PL II, figs. 3-6, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 1886; 4th Suppl., p. 171, PI. 4, fig. 9, 1S92. 

 Patula peripherica (1882, multicostata 1886) and castaneus. Ancey, The 



Conchologists' Exchange, II, 64, 1887. 

 Pyramidula strigosa binneyi and forms multicostata, castanea and albofasciata 



Pilsbry, Naut., XI, 141, 1898; Cat. Amer. Land Shells, p. 32, 1898. 

 Oreohelix peripherica and local races binneyi, newcombi, multicostata, gouldi, 



albofasciata and castaneus Pilsbry, Naut., XXVII, 53-54, 1913. 



The following is a free translation from the French of Ancey's 

 original description : 



"I owe to the kindness of Dr. Newcomb a second variety of this 

 species, with the same shape as the first one, but with a more open 

 umbilicus, ornamented on the periphery with two narrow brown 

 lines, the lower one being more decidedly marked, and provided 

 with ribs, close, irregular and little in relief. It so closely resembles 

 the shape of Helix (Anguispira) cooperi W. G. Binn., that I think 

 it might well be an hybrid displaying the characteristics of the 

 Helix idahoensis and cooperi. It measures 9 mm. in height and 14 

 mm. in diameter, and comes from Utah. As to form and color it 

 looks much like the Helix cooperi (No. 136) of Binney and Bland's 

 Land and Fresh-water Shells of North America, but it has ribs, 

 while the latter has none. I propose to name this interesting variety 

 Helix idahoensis Newcomb var. peripherica.'" 



The ' ' first one " referred to above is O. idahoensis. We see no reason 

 for making this a subspecies or variety of either idahoensis, strigosa 

 or cooperi. It is interesting to note that Ancey himself pointed out 

 its identity with multicostata and the* priority of his name, in his 

 paper above cited from The Conchologists' Exchange. A careful 

 study of Hemphill's material in the Clapp collection, taken in 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



connection with a study of our own material, both in the field and 

 in the laboratory, convinces us that the forms mentioned in the 

 foregoing synonymy should not be separated as subspecies. Some 

 of the names may be useful as descriptive terms, provided they are 

 used in such a way as to indicate their rank. The form albofasciata, 

 especially, is a good color form, but the same variation is seen in 

 various colonies of depressa and cooperi, though seldom or never 

 quite so strikingly developed. 



Hemphill says of castaneus that most of them are "faintly marked 

 with the broad white band of albofasciata, but a few are plain chestnut 

 colored." This is exactly the variation that occurs sporadically in 

 many colonies of depressa and cooperi, and did not warrant the 

 sending out of material from that colony under a distinct name, 

 though it may have been appropriate to have selected the plain 

 chestnut-colored examples and sent them out as mere color forms. 

 Four specimens in Clapp's Hemphill collection are labelled castaneus^ 

 Two of them, from Box Elder County, Utah, are almost typical 

 albofasciata. The other two, from Eastern Oregon, are not at all 

 closely related to the others, and appear to be simply dark, unbanded 

 examples of some undetermined species such as so frequently occur 

 sporadically. The separation of the forms midticostata and gouldi 

 was based chiefly upon a slight difference in the number and promi- 

 nence of the ribs. As the ribs are extremely variable at all the 

 stations of the species, and the material separated and labelled by 

 Hemphill shows minute gradation in this respect, as well as in color 

 and form, throughout his whole group of "varieties" from this 

 district, probably no good purpose is served by retaining both of 

 the names, though the average of the ribbing is so much more pro- 

 nounced at some localities that it may be convenient to retain one 

 of the names without giving it subspecific rank, in which case 

 midticostata should be selected. 



St a. 29, steep east bank of Bear River below Cache Junction, 

 just above the entrance to the gorge by which the river breaks 

 through the mountain range to Wheelon, under shrubbery on whitish 

 limestone. Oreohelix, connecting the unbanded forms of peripherica 

 with the strongly banded albofasciata form. In examining 69 live 

 specimens from a space about two rods wide and several rods long, 

 30 (form binneyi) are found to have scarcely a suggestion of color 

 bands; 26 (form albofasciata) have a dark band 3 to 4 mm. wide 

 just below the suture, then a white peripheral band of about the 

 same width, a dark band below the periphery varying from 1 to 

 23 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



4 mm., the lower margin of this band irregular, often producing a 

 "clouded" effect, and a broad white band around the umbilicus, 

 such as sometimes occurs around the umbilicus of strongly albo- 

 fasciated types of cooperi and depressa; 13 grade almost insensibly 

 from the albofasciata form to the binneyi form. Frequently a narrow 

 white band occurs just below the suture, and the upper edge of the 

 white peripheral band is exposed well up the spire, of the higher- 

 spired albofasciata specimens. Transverse ribs average about two 

 to the millimeter, rather irregular, growth lines showing in the 

 interspaces and microscopic spiral striae on the ribs and in the inter- 

 spaces. The color bands are very dark, often forming a striking 

 contrast with the white peripheral and umbilical bands. Diameter 

 15 to 19 mm. (PI. XVII, fig. 2.) 



Sta. 30, southeast of Sta. 29, directly opposite the power plant 

 dam at the entrance to the gorge, at base of Paleozoic limestone 

 rocks on the lower slope of the mountain, where the vegetative 

 cover is poor and rock slide absent or unexposed. Form multicostata, 

 banding weak or absent, ribbing pronounced, diameter 12 to 16 mm., 

 mostly dead specimens, the slope having been very recently burned 

 over. (PL XV, fig. 2.) 



Sta. 31, farther up the slope, at a heavy, steep limestone ledge, 

 beneath a decumbent species of polygonaceous plant which clings 

 closely to the rock. Form multicostata, abundant, much smaller than 

 at Sta. 30, most examples with a narrow and often faint subperipheral 

 color band, and some with a similar band just above the periphery; 

 diameter of adults from 8 to 12 mm., altitude extremely variable 

 (PL XV, fig. 3). The snails increase in size again a hundred feet 

 farther up the slope. Stations 30, 31 and 32 form practically a 

 continuous colony, which we separated into stations merely because 

 of the astonishing difference in size within a short distance. Our 

 observations upon this genus lead us to observe that any given 

 species is likely to vary greatly in size with variation in cover. We 

 also found here 97 Pupilla blandi (Morse) and 5 Vallonia cyclo- 

 phorella Ancey and V. sonorana Pils. 



Sta. 32, at the base of a limestone cliff above Sta. 31, where the 

 vegetative cover is better and the cliff affords considerable shade. 

 Forms albofasciata and binneyi, intergrading as at Sta. 29, except 

 that few are so pronouncedly of the albofasciata type as at 29. Diame- 

 ter from 9 to 16 mm. 



Sta. 33, ravine that cuts back into the east bluff of Bear River 

 valley, just below Wheelon, Box Elder County, probably not a great 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



distance from Hemphill's camp, above irrigation canal, in a dense 

 thicket of birches and mountain maples. Forms albofasciata and 

 binneyi, showing the same intergradation as at Sta. 29, but a smaller 

 proportion strongly banded. Of 324 live ones examined, only 39 

 showed very marked bands, most of which were as heavily banded 

 as at 29. Diameter 16 to 18 mm. In the dried-up backwater from 

 the canal at this point we found 80 Lymnaea parva Lea (identified by 

 Walker), 1 Planorbis parvus Say, 7 Physa gyrina Say (?), 2 Zonitoides 

 arborea Say and 1 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Sta. 34, above Wheelon, in a ravine on the east side of the gorge, 

 at the south end of the railroad bridge southwest of the tunnel, only 

 a few rods within the eastern border of Box Elder County, under 

 mountain maple, scrub oak and other brush. The same forms of 

 Oreohelix as at stations 29 and 33, but the albofasciata form propor- 

 tionately more numerous than at Sta. 33, the banding varying 

 greatly in degree as elsewhere. 



It will be noted that wmerever the form albofasciata was found, 

 it was associated with the binneyi form, and that at none of the 

 albofasciata stations was the ribbing as pronounced as at stations 

 30 and 31, at which none of the typical albofasciata were found. 

 This suggests that notwithstanding the complete intergradation in 

 all the observed characters of these snails at stations 29 to 34, it 

 may become necessary to recognize two distinct subspecies. In 

 that event the name peripherica should be adopted for the multi- 

 costata form, because it better conforms to Ancey's description and 

 Ancey himself recognized the identity of these two, and did not 

 recognize their identity with any of the other named forms. Then 

 the forms from stations 29, 33, 34 and 37 may be called 0. peripherica 

 binneyi (Hemph.), with albofasciata as a color form. Living 

 specimens from these stations have been retained for breeding 

 experiments. 



Sta. 37, about five miles across the valley due west of Sta. 36, 

 a mile or so southwest of Clarkston, in a ravine in the east slope of 

 the same narrow mountain range that the river cuts through at 

 stations 29 to 34, and probably not more than three miles northwest 

 of 29, under low bushes. The binneyi and albofasciata forms, showing 

 the usual intergradations. From the topographic and biologic 

 conditions observed at a distance, it is not unlikely that this colony 

 extends with a few narrow interruptions, to a point on the river bank 

 just opposite Sta. 29. 



Sta. 36, west slope of a small, rounded, barren-looking, isolated, 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



calcareous mountain northeast of Newton, due east of Sta. 37, under 

 the shrub Kunzia tridentata and weeds. We found here, on a very 

 unpromising slope, in considerable abundance, an Oreohelix which 

 appears to be identical with the smooth form of peripherica from 

 Sta. 26, in North Ogden Canyon, but the specimens average somewhat 

 smaller at Sta. 36 and more in keeping in this respect with the other 

 peripherica stations. 



Oreohelix rugosa (Hemph.). 



Patula sirigosa var. rugosa Hemphill, Xaut., IV, 16-17, 1890. Binney's 

 4th Suppl. to 5th Vol. Terr. Moll. U. S., p. 174, 1892. 

 Sta. 3, a little north of west from Clarkston, on the east slope of 

 the same mountain range as Sta. 37 and not more than two or three 

 miles distant, probably about one-third of the way up the mountain, 

 under scrub oak and sage brush. A comparison of this material 

 with 0. rugosa in Clapp's Hemphill collection shows them to be 

 identical. The shells remind one of 0. hendersoni Pilsbry, or rather 

 of the subspecies dakani Henderson, but Dr. Pilsbry's anatomical 

 examination disproves its relationship to hendersoni. It must be 

 remembered, however, that the connection between hendersoni and 

 dakani is hypothetical, and rugosa may prove to be a prior name for 

 the latter. The anatomy indicates a closer relationship to cooperi 

 than to strigosa or depressa, but the shell characters do not appear to 

 grade it into any of those forms, so it is for the present assigned to 

 specific rank. The specimens vary greatly in altitude, as is so 

 frequently the case in this genus. 



Pisidium huachucanum Pils. and Ferr. 



Found in a spring at Clarkston, Utah, associated with the next 

 species. Both identified by Dr. Sterki. 



Paludestrina longinqua (Gould). 



In a spring at Clarkston, Utah. 



On the bank of Bear River, due west of Cache Junction, we found 

 a single dead shell of Planorbis trivolvis. At Sta. 35, a brook northeast 

 of Newton, we found a Physa rather plentiful, which was tentatively 

 identified by Mr. Bryant Walker as P. distinguenda Tryon (?), but 

 Dr. Pilsbry says it "agrees very exactly with the type of Physa 

 cooperi." 



The Trenton District. 



Trenton, Utah, lies a few miles to the north of Newton and Cache 

 Junction. 




1916. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Oreohelix peripherioa (Ancey). 



Sta. 4, "The (lift's, " one mile south of Trenton, on a small, isolated 

 mountain similar to Sta. 36. The smooth form of this species, like 

 that found at stations 26 (North Ogden) and 36 (Newton), was 

 found here. A few show the strong ribbing of the form binneyi, 

 hut the ribs are not so prominent as in the form multicostata. A 

 fiir had recently destroyed the brush and leaves so live specimens 

 were scarce, but dead shells were abundant. Two abnormal speci- 

 mens are represented on PI. XV, fig. 4. 



Sphaerium pilsbryanum Sterki. 



A few dead shells found in an irrigating ditch near Trenton, from 

 which the water had been withdrawn for some time. The species was 

 described from Bear Lake as a fossil or subfossil. Dr. Sterki writes 

 that he has one fresh specimen from Utah Lake. 



The Logan District. 



Binney recorded Thysanophora ingersoUi (Bland) under the generic 

 name Micwphysa, from Logan Canyon, collected by Hemphill 

 (2nd Suppl. Terr. Moll., p. 35). It is probably the same form that 

 Ancey, 1887, described from the same canyon as M. ingersoUi con- 

 vexior (Conch. Exch.. II. 64). We did not visit this canyon. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 41, first gulch south of Logan Canyon, east of Logan, Utah, 

 in the edges of Paleozoic limestone talus. A small form of this 

 subspecies, running about 18.5 mm. in diameter, mostly strongly 

 banded, a few plain, not abundant, conditions evidently rather 

 unfavorable. A few examples strongly resemble 0. "van. albida" 

 (Hemph.), the type locality of which is "near Logan." 

 Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.). PI. XV, fig. i. 



Patvla slrigosa var. hybrida Hemphill, Xaut., IV, 17, 1S90. 



Sta. 42, not far within the mouth of the next gulch south of Sta. 41, 

 under mountain maple and other shrubbery, herbs and rocks. The 

 snails were found in fair abundance, a few with color bands, sculpture 

 almost exactly like that of 0. h. gabbiana from stations 14 and 15, 

 but the keel is much less pronounced and often almost wanting on 

 the last whorl. This is doubtless the form that Hemphill first re- 

 corded as "the variety with microscopic ribs, beginning of haydeni, 

 among stones at the head of a gulch high on the mountains" (Binney's 

 2nd Suppl. Terr. Moll., p. 31), possibly the same gulch from which 

 we collected it. Later, in describing and naming the subspecies, he- 

 explained that it "is the beginning of the forms of strigosa that 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



finally develop the revolving lines into prominent ribs as seen on the 

 surface of var. haydeni Gabb. " 



The Franklin District. 



Franklin is situated in Idaho, a mile or two north of the northern 

 line of Utah, and Sta. 38 is in Idaho, but stations 39 and 40 are 

 a mile and a half or two miles south of the line, in Utah. 



Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemphill). PL XVI, fig. 1. 



Patula strigosa var. fragilis Hemphill, Naut., IV, 17-18, 1890. Binney's 

 4th Suppl. Terr. Moll., pp. 174-175, 1892. 



Sta. 38, a small, isolated, barren-looking mountain about a mile 

 west of Franklin, Idaho, in the edges of Paleozoic limestone slides 

 surrounded by sage brush. The specimens from this station are 

 small (few exceeding 17 mm. in diameter), much depressed, not 

 quite so fragile as from the next station, and with a wider umbilicus, 

 as would be expected from the depressed form. The noticeably 

 translucent shell and general appearance, however, connects them 

 with this subspecies, rather than with typical depressa. From this 

 station we have also 1 Vallonia cyclophorella Ancey, 1 Pupilla blandi 

 (Morse) and 2 Succinea avara Say. 



Sta. 39, Prater Gulch, south of High Creek Canyon, Utah, about 

 six miles southeast of Franklin, Idaho, nearly east of the railroad 

 station of Webster, Utah, in quartzite talus. Rare in several slides 

 visited, very abundant in one. The specimens are typical, but 

 rather larger than most of those in Clapp's Hemphill collection, 

 averaging about 20 mm. in diameter, altitude variable in its propor- 

 tion to transverse diameter, but nearly all higher than the average 

 from Sta. 38. This subspecies is closely allied to depressa, but differs 

 slightly in anatomy, in the translucency and fragility of the shell, 

 and in the narrowing of the umbilicus by the reflected base of the 

 columella. Near Franklin, on red sandstone, is given as the type 

 locality. One might be led to suspect that the fragility of shell is 

 due to lack of lime, from the fact that Hemphill's material came 

 from sandstone and our No. 39 from quartzite, but the snails from 

 Sta. 38, in a limestone habitat, are also fragile, though to a less 

 degree, while depressa from quartzite slides are not fragile. The 

 Sta. 39 shells are so fragile that many of them were broken in carrying 

 them in the bags until we found time to clean them, a thing which 

 did not happen with any other Oreohelices we collected, and they 

 were not subjected to as hard usage as some. Indeed, it was the 

 fact that they broke so easily that attracted our attention in the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



field to the probability that we had Hemphill's fragilis, which neither 

 of us had seen before. 



At this station Vitrina alaskana Dall was noted, but not taken. 



Oreohelix haydeni corrugata new subspecies. PI. XVII, fig. l. 



Shell rather globose; spire elevated, one or two examples tabulate; 

 whorls 5 to oh, ample, convex, last one scarcely carinated at the 

 periphery on elevated specimens; spiral sculpture strong, closely 

 resembling that of typical haydeni and the subspecies betheli, con- 

 sisting of an average of about 13 strong, sharp ridges (in a few exam- 

 ples scarcely stronger than the riblets), the interspaces much broader 

 and occupied by from 3 to 6 spiral riblets or threads; numerous 

 crowded, irregular, transverse riblets and growth lines roughen the 

 shell and give to the spiral ridges and riblets a knobbed appearance 

 under a lens; color pinkish-white to white, first 2 or 3 whorls dark 

 horn-color; altitude of type in Univ. Colo. Museum, 14 mm.; greater 

 diameter, 18 mm.; lesser diameter 15.7 mm.; cotype in collection of 

 L. E. Daniels 13 mm.; greater diameter, 18.5 mm.; lesser diameter, 

 16 mm.; cotype in Mus. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., alt. 14, diam. 19.7 

 mm.; umbilicus deep and very narrow, almost cylindrical, exhibiting 

 whorls to the apex. The shell is more globose, the whorls of greater 

 caliber and the umbilicus much narrower than in typical haydeni, 

 and typical betheli is even more depressed and widely umbilicated 

 For purposes of comparison we republish Gabb's figure of haydeni 

 (PI. XVIII, fig. 3), and original figures of betheli (PI. XVIII, fig. 1) 

 and its variety alta (PI. XVIII, fig. 2), neither of which have been 

 hitherto figured. Binney's figures of haydeni do not appear to be 

 typical. Type locality, Sta. 40, a small mountain of Paleozoic 

 limestone nearly isolated from the main chain, south of west from 

 Sta. 39, and southeast of Webster, Utah, under the shrub Kunzia 

 tridentata and coarse-leafed herbaceous plants, and in one place in a 

 small rock slide. Abundant. This subspecies forms another 

 exception to Hemphill's observation concerning the geographic 

 dividing line between the transversely-ribbed and longitudinally- 

 ribbed forms (Binney's 2nd Suppl. Terr. Moll., p. 31, 1886). 



Hemphill recorded haydeni from the Oquirrh Mountains and 

 also from near Ogden, but a large series in Clapp's Hemphill col- 

 lection labelled partly oquirrhcnsix, partly haydeni and partly hemp- 

 hill i, all from "near Salt Lake," does not disclose any difference 

 between them, and should probably all be called oquirrhensis, except 

 perhaps two much more elevated examples which may be from a 

 different localitv. 




338 proceedings of the academy of [may, 



The McCammon District. 

 McCammon, Idaho, is about fifty miles northwest of Franklin. 



Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). 



Sta. 1, one mile north of McCammon, Idaho, on the north side of 

 the railroad. Several additional faint, narrow color bands below 

 periphery. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). 



Sta. 2, about six miles up Harkness Canyon, directly east of 

 McCammon, below the first limestone ledge, under leaves and small 

 stones. This form is allied to depressa by its anatomy, but is on the 

 average much less depressed, the whorls more convex, and few are 

 strongly banded, though most of them show some traces of color 

 bands, and a number exhibit several faint, narrow bands below, 

 such as are so common in 0. cooperi, but not so usual in depressa. 



Oreohelix tenuistriata new species. PI. XV, figs. 5, 6. 



Shell small, rather depressed; whorls about 4^, convex, carinated; 

 transverse sculpture consists of numerous, crowded, sharp, wavy 

 lines, presenting a beautiful appearance under a lens, crossed by 

 a number of indistinct, raised, spiral lines; umbilicus open, exhibiting 

 all of the whorls; color of live shell unknown, but probably a dirty 

 white; exact measurements of adult unknown, but diameter about 

 9 mm., altitude about 5 or 5.5 mm. The paratype in Coll. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. measures, alt. 5.1, diam. 8.5 mm. In general appear- 

 ance and sculpture it closely resembles 0. carinifera Pils., but the 

 transverse sculpture is sharper than in the two specimens of that 

 species we have been able to examine. Also the second embryonic 

 whorl is sharply striate and convex, while in carinifera and hemphilli 

 it is smooth and convex and in yavapai it is smooth and flatter. 



Type locality, Sta. lh, a canyon between McCammon and Hot 

 Lava Springs, Idaho, about two miles southwest of the latter place. 

 Only three examples were found, all more or less broken. One is 

 in The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, one in the 

 University of Colorado, and the type in the collection of Mr. Daniels. 

 These specimens were all submitted to Dr. Pilsbry, who says they 

 represent an undescribed species and belong to the hemphilli and 

 carinifera group. With more and better material this may prove 

 to be a subspecies of one or the other, but it does not at present seem 

 probable. With it were found, sparingly, Vallpnia gracilicosta 

 Reinh., Euconulus fulvus Mull, and Vitrina alaskana Dall. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PH1LA. 19 16. 



PLATE XV. 



HENDERSON and DANIELS: MOLLUSCA OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XVI. 



HENDERSON AND DANIELS: MOLLUSC A OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191G. 



PLATE XVII. 



^ 



• 



' 



* 



t 



-• 





7* 





Ih 



HENDERSON AND DANIELS: MOLLUSCA OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XVIII. 



HENDERSON AND DANIELS: MOLLUSCA OF UTAH AND IDAHO. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Pisidium huachucanum Pits, and Ferr. 



In a spring near Port Neuf River, north of McCammon, Idaho. 

 Identified by Dr. Sterki. 



Explanation of Plates XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII. 



Plate XV. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix peripherica, -ix examples from Sta. 26, North 



Ogden Canyon, Utah. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix peripherica, six examples from Sta. o(), near Cache Junc- 

 tion. Utah. 

 Fig. 3.— Oreohelix peripherica, nine examples from Sta. 31. near Cache 



Junction, Utah. 

 Fig. 4. — Oreohelix peripherica, two abnormal specimens from Sta. 4, near 



Trenton, Utah. 

 Fig. 5. — Oreohelix tenuistriata n. sp., 3 views of type specimen from near 



Hot Lava Springs, Idaho. In collection of L. E. Daniels. 

 Fig. 6. — Oreohelix tenuistriata n. sp., 3 views of cotype from near Hot Lava 



Springs, Idaho. In Univ. Colo. Museum. 

 Fig. 7. — Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis n. subsp., 3 views of type specimen 



from Eureka, Utah, in Univ. Colo. Museum. 

 Fig. 8. — Oreohelix hemphilli eurekensis n. subsp., 3 views of co-type from 



Eureka, Utah. In Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



Plate XVI. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix strigosa fragilis, six examples from Sta. 39, 



east of Webster, Utah. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix strigosa buttoni, four examples from Sta. 16, Taylor 



Canyon, near Ogden. Utah. 

 Fig. 3. — Oreohelix haydeni gabbiana, five examples from Sta. 15, Oquirrh 



Mts., Utah. 

 Fig. 4. — Oreohelix haydeni hybrida, five examples from Sta. 42, near Logan, 



Utah. 



Plate XVII. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix haydeni corrugata n. subsp. Three views of 

 four specimens from type lot, Sta. 40, southeast of Webster, Utah. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix peripherica Ancey. Three views of four specimens from 

 Sta. 29, near Cache June, Utah. 



Plate XVIII. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix haydeni betheli, six examples from type 

 locality, north of river. Glenwood Springs, Colo. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix haydeni betheli var. alia, eight examples from type locality, 



south of river, Glenwood Springs, Colo. 

 Fig. 3. — Oreohelix haydi ni, Gabb's original figure from Amer. Journ. Conch. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



NOTES ON THE ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX, WITH A CATALOGUE OF 



THE SPECIES. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



The present study is based chiefly upon material collected by 

 Messrs. Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels in Utah and southern 

 Idaho. 1 Its object is to determine the characters of the reproductive 

 organs and teeth of the species of this area, both as an aid in the 

 discrimination of the species, and to afford a basis for comparison in 

 further work on the genus. The new catalogue of the species and 

 minor forms of Oreohelix appended, embodies the results of study 

 in the museum and field from time to time during the past ten or 

 fifteen years. 2 



The genus Oreohelix is one of the most difficult groups of land 

 snails within our boundaries by reason of the multiplicity of forms, 

 and the strange parallelism of shell characters sometimes existing 

 between species or races not directly related. This has led to erro- 

 neous identifications, with consequent errors in the data of geographic 

 distribution. 



The shell seems to be especially plastic ; not only are there many 

 local races of various grades of differentiation, but in any colony of 

 some of the species one finds a wide range of variation in the features 

 usually depended on for specific discrimination, such as absolute 

 size, height of the spire, width of the umbilicus relative to the diame- 

 ter, and development of the sculpture. Sometimes colored and 

 white individuals exist in the same colony. If the banded pattern 

 is primitive in the strigosa and cooperi groups, as seems highly proba- 

 ble, then it appears that bandless or white mutations have arisen 

 independently in many colonies, where they sometimes exist with 

 the earlier pattern, apparently in hybrid populations. 



Eighty-six names have been proposed for forms of all grades; 

 many of these are quite insufficiently defined, and no doubt part 



1 For data relating to the localities and shells collected reference must be made 

 to their paper "Hunting Mollusca in Utah and Idaho." A few species collected 

 by Mr. jas. H. Ferriss and the author are also considered. 



2 The writer has personally collected ten of the twenty-four species known. 

 All of the species and subspecies are contained in the collection of the Academy 

 except the following: 0. bruneri Ancey, 0. cooperi stantoni Dall, and 0. strigosa 

 imilaris Dawson. 




191().] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



of them are superfluous, either because they are synonymous with 

 other nanus, or because they denote variations not of racial value. 

 In many cases, further collections are requisite, as the small, assorted 

 series of the earlier collectors give no adequate idea of the association 

 of forms in the colonies. Moreover, the location of colonies has 

 often been carelessly recorded, entailing much strenuous field work 

 on the investigator of to-day, work which could have been saved 

 by carefully noting the locations of type localities. 



Distribution of Oreohelix. 



The genus is almost confined to the western mountain region of 

 the United States, but there is one species in southern Assiniboia 

 and one near the southern boundary of Alberta. Formerly one 

 species extended eastward to eastern Iowa. Southward the genus 

 practically reaches the Mexican boundary, in the Big Hachet moun- 

 tains of Xew Mexico and the Huachucas of Arizona; and it will 

 probably be found below the boundary. An outlying species on 

 Catalina Island, California, is widely remote from its kindred, 

 among alien associates. 



A northern and a southern area of speciation may be dis- 

 tinguished. The southern group occupies the southern half of 

 New Mexico, Arizona south of the Colorado River, and Catalina 

 Island, California. It comprises all of the recent species of the 

 subgenus Radiocentrum, and the species of Oreohelix proper which 

 have swollen penes. Species as follows: 



0. concentrata. (Radiocentrum.) 



0. metcalfei. 0. avalo?iensis. 



0. pilsbryi. 0. chiricahuana. 



0. yavapai. 0. clap pi. 



0. barbata. 0. ferrissi. 



0. socori'oejisis. 0. hachetana. 

 0. cooperi. 



Several of these species have one or more subspecies. 0. cooperi 

 occurs only at considerable elevations, and in forms differing some- 

 what from northern specimens. 0. yavapai has been found also in 

 northwestern Wyoming. It is one of the widely distributed species. 

 The other species are special to the southern area. 



In the Florida and Dragoon mountains a few imperfect and very 

 old specimens have been recorded doubtfully as 0. strigosa; but it 

 seems more likely that they belong to the group with swollen penes, 

 some of which resemble 0. strigosa. 



The northern group occupies Arizona north of the Colorado and 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



northern New Mexico, north to British America, and in its greatest 

 amplitude from the Mississippi Eiver (pleistocene) to eastern Wash- 

 ington. The most widely spread species is 0. cooperi, with 0. strigosa 

 depressa next. 0. haydeni also is spread over a considerable though 

 much smaller area. Most of the other species and races are rela- 

 tively local in distribution, and many are known from but one or a 

 few contiguous colonies. 



Oreohelix cooperi still occurs from the Black Hills to Montana and 

 Idaho, and from Assiniboia to the southern third of New Mexico 

 and Arizona. Its range was formerly wider, as it is not uncommon 

 in the loess of eastern Iowa. Its presence there indicates a drier 

 and cooler summer climate than that of eastern Iowa to-day. Where 

 I have collected 0. cooperi in the mountain states it is a shell of 

 the " aspen zone." 



Oreohelix is rarely if ever found in abundance except where the 

 country rock is limestone. Some species, in areas largely blanketed 

 by later igneous rock, seem to be wholly restricted to the limestone 

 outcrops. They live on the surface, in dry weather finding refuge 

 under superficial stones, leaves or sticks. Except 0. barbdta in the 

 Chiricahua mountains, I do not remember ever finding Oreohelix 

 below the surface layer of stones or rocks. 



Reproductive Organs of Oreohelix. 



The genitalia have a general resemblance to the same organs in 

 Ashmunella and Sonorella, but there are some differences. There is 

 never a flagellum, though the epiphallus is well developed. The 

 penis-papilla is obsolete or wanting. The penis consists of a lower 

 segment which is longitudinally ribbed within, and an upper segment 

 with thinner walls which are densely papillose within, and enclose a 

 larger cavity. The internally ribbed part is very short in Radio- 

 centrum, but from about a third to over half the total length in 

 Oreohelix proper. The distal end is truncate or quite shortly 

 bicornute. 



In the figures, the organs are shown in nearly their natural positions, 

 except that in some cases the folds of the penis are slightly opened 

 out, to bring the epiphallus into full view. The specific characters 

 are largely a matter of measurements of the epiphallus and penis 

 and its parts. These measurements are taken with dividers after 

 pulling the organs straight, but without stretching. Thus PI. 20, 

 fig. la, and PI. 22, fig. la show the penes of two species pinned out 

 for measuring, after drawing figures in the natural positions. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



All figures were drawn with an Abbe camera lucida. 



In these Proceedings for 1905, p. 271, a grouping of the species 

 of Oreohelix according to the characters of the genitalia was tenta- 

 tively advanced. The examination of many more species and local 

 races in the main confirms the arrangement then proposed. By the 

 genitalia the species group as follows. 



1. Epiphallus about as long as the penis, the retractor muscle inserted 



upon it; internally plicate part of the penis very short; 

 animal oviparous, etc. Subgenus Radiocentrum. 



2. Epiphallus much shorter than the penis, the retractor muscle 



inserted upon both at their junction (except in 0. barbatd); 

 internally plicate part of the penis \ to over \ of its length; 

 viviparous species. Subgenus Oreohelix. 



a. Penis long, the distal part about equal in diameter to the 



lower part, though usually collapsing on account of the 

 thinner walls. 0. strigosa, peripherica, hendersoni, elrodi, 

 haydeni and their varieties. Also 0. cooperi, which is 

 somewhat intermediate between groups a and b, being a 

 generalized species in genitalia. 



b. Penis short, the basal part decidedly more swollen than the 



distal, 0. yavapai, concentrica, metcalfei, pilsbryi, barbata, 

 and their varieties. 



The division of Oreohelix into "transversely ribbed," "smooth or 

 striate," and "longitudinally ribbed" groups by Hemphill and 

 Binney is a division of convenience in the identification of specimens, 

 but it has no relation to the affinities of the species. 



Teeth of Oreohelix. 



In Oreohelix there are two types of teeth, as W. G. Binney first 

 pointed out. In one group the central and inner lateral teeth have 

 no side-cusps or cutting points. Here belong: 



0. strigosa (Gld.). Binnev, T. M. vol. V, PI. IV, fig. h. 3 



0. cooperi (W. G. B.). Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. IV, fig. g, and 



several examined by myself. 

 0. haydeni (Gabb). Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. XVI, fig. b. Also 



0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata examined by myself. 

 0. peripherica (Anc). Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. XVI, fig. a (var. 



newcombi). Also numerous radulse of several forms examined 



by me, from Henderson and Daniel's Stations 29, 30, 33, 36. 



3 Just what race of strigosa Binney had remains in doubt. In the same volume 

 he described and figured the genitalia of a Salmon River strigosa, which would 

 presumably be 0. s. jugalis, but perhaps O. s. subcarinata. He gives the formula 

 50-1-50 for a transverse row of teeth. As all the other species of Oreohelix exam- 

 ined by Binney and the writer have between 20-1-20 and 33-1-33 teeth, this 

 count is remarkable, and if confirmed would certainly indicate a species distinct, 

 from any other of which the dentition is known. 




344 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



0. strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1905 

 PL XXII, figs. 1-3 (Pecos, N. M.); also from Colorado Springs, 

 near McCammon, Idaho, and Ogden Canyon, Utah. 



0. rugosa (Hemph.). See fig. la. Formula 19, 13, 1, 13, 19. 



0. metcalfei (Ckll.). Formula 17, 11, 1, 11, 17. 



0. concentrata (Dall). Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, p. 276 

 (Form huachucana). 



0. yavapai (Pils.). Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, PI. XXII, 

 fig. 7. 



Fig. 1. — Central and two inner lateral teeth of (a) Oreohelix rugosa, and (b) 0. 



hendersoni. 



In the second group the central and all lateral and marginal teeth 

 have sicle-cusps. Of this kind are : 



O. idahoensis (Newc). Binney, T. M. vol. V, PI. IV, fig. i. 



0. hemphilli (Newc.). 4 Binney, T. M. vol. V, PL IV, fig. j. 



0. barbata Pils., Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, PL XXII, fig. 6. 



O. chiricahuana Pils., Pilsbrv, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, PL XXII, 



figs. 10, 11. 

 0. clappi Ferriss, Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1905, PL XXII, fig. 4. 



In O. clappi the cusps and cutting points on the central teeth are 

 very small. In O. hendersoni (fig. 16) they are small and partly united 

 with the lateral cutting edges of the middle cusp. This species is transi- 

 tional to the form of teeth found in O. cooperi, O. haydeni and others. 

 There is therefore no hard and fast line of demarcation between the 

 two groups, although nearly all of the species examined are seen at 

 once to belong to one or the other, and the form of the teeth is there- 

 fore a useful specific character. 



Nearly all of the radulse examined have 29 to 33 teeth on each 

 side of the central tooth. A few have not so many, 0. yavapai 

 having 26, O. barbata 23, and 0. hemphilli, according to Binney, 20. 



4 Binney reported O. hemphilli from "Manitou, Williams Canyon, Colorado." 

 The shell from this place needs comparison with the type of hemphilli. Whether 

 his figure of the teeth was from the Nevada or the Colorado form is not known. 

 Fig. 157, Man. Amer. Land Shells, p. 168, is not very characteristic, and if hemp- 

 hilli, it is an immature individual. The tvpe of O. hemphilli is No. 23,060 

 A. N. S. P. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



The count of teeth is rather small for a Helicid genus. Mr. Binney's 

 count for "0. strigosa," 50-1-50, is so detached from other known 

 species that it needs confirmation. 



Oreohelix strigosa (Gld.). 



The anatomy of typical 0. strigosa is unknown, since we have yet 

 to rediscover the typical form. Hemphill's var. parma from Spokane 

 Falls is near the original strigosa, but it is larger and more solid. 

 Further west, at Blue Lake in the Grand Coulee, there is a small, 

 thin race, closely resembling jugalis Hemph. Nothing is known 

 of the soft anatomy of any of the subspecies or races of Washington, 

 central and "northern Idaho and Montana. 



Oreohelix strigosa depressa (CklU. PI. 19, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 0, 7; pi. 120, fig. 8. 



(a) Specimens from Manitou Canyon, near Colorado Springs, are 

 taken to be typical depressa (fig. 1). The penis is long, from over 

 three-fourths to more than the diameter of the shell, the internally 

 costate portion is not swollen, and is less than half the entire length — 

 usually about one-third. It has 5 or 6 ribs inside. The distal 

 portion collapses along three lines, so that its section is trefoil shaped. 

 This is due to three bands where the wall is slightly thicker. It lies 

 coiled in the body, usually showing two principal bends. The 

 general appearance in different individuals is shown in pi. 19, figures 

 1, 2 (also pi. 19, fig. 5, 0. s. fragilis.) The form cornea (pi. 19, fig. 3) 

 is identical with depressa anatomically. 



(6) In another series of specimens dissected the distal part of the 

 penis collapses along two instead of three sides, so that its section 

 becomes flattened instead of triangular. It is also less coiled or 

 twisted than in typical depressa. This form of penis is shown in pi. 

 19, figs. 4 and 7, and pi. 20, fig. 8. The last five measurements 

 in the table on page 346 belong to these. While the trefoil and 

 the flat forms are almost always readily distinguishable, yet in a 

 few specimens of the fiat type I have opened, there is some indica- 

 tion of a third ridge in part of the length (Stations 43, 46, figs. 3 and 

 6 of plate 19). 



The flat type is probably more primitive than the trefoil, since it 

 is common to this form of strigosa, peripherica and haydeni. 



O. s. depressa form tooelensis H. and D. (pi. 21, fig. 5), from Station 

 10, about 6 miles from Tooele, Utah, agrees with many specimens 

 of depressa in genitalia. The distal part of the penis is flattened. 



The radula of O. s. depressa from Colorado Springs has 16, 17, 1, 

 17, 16 teeth, the central and 5 or 6 inner laterals unicuspid. 




346 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Oreohelix strigosa fragilis (Hemph.). PI. 19, fig. 5. 



Genitalia as in 0. s. depressa, the distal portion of the penis col- 

 lapsing into a trefoil shape in the individual dissected (Station 38). 



Length of penis 18 mm.; of internally costate part 5 mm.; epiph- 

 allus 4; penial retractor 6 mm.; diameter of the shell about 19 mm. 

 Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.). PI. 21, fig. 6. 



Genitalia as in form tooelensis, 0. s. depressa from Provo, and 

 others, the penis collapsing flat. The lower part has 5 ribs within. 

 Length of penis 25 mm., of internally costate portion 10, of epiphallus 

 7 mm., penial retractor 15 mm.; vagina 6.7 mm. The specimens 

 came from Station 16, Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, Utah. 



Measurements, in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix strigosa depressa. 



Oreohelix hendersoni Pils. PI. 20, fig. 7. 



The length of the penis is three-fourths of the diameter of the 

 shell. Its internally costate segment is one-third the total length, 

 and the distal papillose portion is somewhat flattened. Length of 

 the epiphallus is contained 2f times in that of the penis. The 

 penial retractor muscle is shorter than usual in P. strigosa depressa. 




l'.lltil 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



347 



The lower third of the spermatheca duct is Large, then abruptly 

 contracting. There is a general similarity with the genitalia of 

 0. s. depressa. Measurements in mm. follow. Length of penis 12, 

 of its costate lower portion 4; epiphallus 4.5; penial retractor 4; 

 vagina 4; spermatheca and duct 10.5; diam. of shell 16 mm. 



The three areas of the radula appear distinct, in a slightly enlarged 

 view, the rows of marginal teeth being oblique. In most Oreohelices 

 the areas are not well marked. The central tooth and laterals have 

 rudimentary side cusps. Formula 16, 12, 1, 12, 16. Text fig. 16. 

 By the forms of the individual teeth and the more distinct differen- 

 tiation of areas in the radula, this species differs from the strigosa 

 series. 



Oreohelix haydeni (Gabb). PI. 21, figs. 1. 2, 4, 8. 



0. haydeni does not differ from 0. strigosa depressa in any important 

 or diagnostic characters of the genitalia or dentition, but the features 

 of the shell seem quite sufficient to give it specific rank. 



The typical form, from Weber Canyon in the Wasatch Range, 

 has not been collected alive so far as I know. The forms examined 

 agree pretty closely in soft anatomy. The internally costate part 

 of the penis is about one-third of the total length. The distal 

 portion collapses flat. The penial retractor is decidedly shorter in 

 subsp. corrugata and hybrida than in subsp. betheli and gabbiana. 

 This is probably not a character of much importance. The retractor 

 is sometimes continued in the lung floor for some distance, as in 

 pi. 21, figs. 2 and 8. Only the free part is measured in the table. 

 In hybrida the penis is more twisted than in the other forms, at least 

 in the individual dissected. In all the forms, the distal part of the 

 penis collapses more or less flat. 0. h. betheli has four unequal ribs 

 in the lower part. 



24 




348 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



In 0. h. betheli and 0. h. corrugata the central and inner lateral 

 teeth are unicuspid, but there are narrow, cutting edges overhanging 

 from the central cusps, in place of side cusps. 



Oreohelix haydeni mixta n. subsp. 



The shell is whitish with the early whorls clay color (the last whorl 

 sometimes having two narrow brown bands, the upper one ascending 

 the spire). Sculpture often equal, rather fine, deeply cut growth- 

 wrinkles, cut by spiral engraved lines, unequally developed, and 

 on the base often grouped so as to leave spiral bands of long granules 

 at intervals. Periphery angular or subangular in front, becoming 

 rounded on the rest of the last whorl. Embryonic shell having 

 irregular radial ripples, and the usual very fine spiral striation; on 

 the last whorl some coarse spirals ; peripheral carina strongly pinched 

 out. 



Height 18.3, diam. 12 mm.; umbilicus 3.6 mm. 



The genitalia (pi. 21, fig. 3) resemble the organs of 0. haydeni in 

 proportions, the internally ribbed part of the penis being less than 

 half of the total length, but thicker than in haydeni, perhaps an 

 individual feature. The distal part has a somewhat trefoil section. 

 It differs from 0. cooperi by the longer penis relative to the diameter 

 of the shell, its length being about equal to the diameter in this form, 

 but decidedly less in all of the cooperi I have measured. The inter- 

 nally costate part is relatively shorter than in cooperi. 



Glenwood Springs, Colorado, on the bluff above the Hotel Colorado, 

 among oak leaves and debris on a sandstone and shale ledge above 

 station of 0. h. betheli. Type No. 94,058 A. N. S. P. (from No. 447 

 of Prof. Ellsworth Bethel, 1907). 



Another lot from Mr. Bethel, No. 94,796, consists of individuals 

 like the above lot, with others having two narrow spiral lines in the 

 usual cooperi positions. One of this lot (whether banded or plain 

 not known) was dissected, pi. 22, fig. 5. It agrees with the type in 

 proportions of the penis, but the penial retractor and the vagina are 

 shorter. Measurements of the genitalia in mm. follow. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



This is the form which was at one time identified as 0. haydeni 

 gabbiana. It resembles 0. h. hybrida very closely, but the embryonic 

 stage differs. The last embryonic whorl is not so convex in mixta, 

 and its major spirals are more distinct and the radial ripples are 

 more irregular. The carina is decidedly more prominent, and the 

 whorl as a whole is distinctly more depressed. It is likely that 

 hybrida and mixta are independent forms of the haydeni stock, or 

 perhaps separated relics of a pro-haydeni race. 



Some specimens have much the appearance of cooperi, but the 

 genitalia show that there is no real connection. There is large 

 individual variation in the height of the spire. 



The embryonic shell of 0. h. gabbiana has stronger spirals both 

 above and below near the end of the last embryonic whorl; its 

 periphery is less pinched out, and it is less depressed. The adult 

 gabbiana is usually more strongly angular or keeled. 

 Oreohelix peripherica (Ancey). PI. 20, figs, l to 6. 



In genitalia this species does not differ materially from 0. strigosa 

 depressa (b) and 0. haydeni. The internally costate part of the penis 

 is less than half of the total length, usually slightly over a third. 

 The internally papillose distal portion usually collapses flat, but one 

 specimen from Station 30 and one from 36 there are weak indica- 

 tions of a third ridge. The cylindric lower part of the penis has 

 5 or 6 longitudinal ribs within. 



Many specimens were opened, from various localities, and including 

 nearly smooth, fine-ribbed and coarse-ribbed, white and banded 

 individuals. Except in size, there is very little variation. 



Measurements, in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix peripherica. 




350 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



The central and inner lateral teeth have no side cusps. There 

 are about 12 lateral teeth on each side (Station 30). In an individual 

 from Station 36 there are 17, 13, 1, 13, 17 teeth. The transition from 

 lateral to marginal teeth is very gradual in this species, so that the 

 exact number of laterals is somewhat uncertain. 



Oreohelix rugosa (Hemphill). PL 22, figs. 7, 7a. 



The penis is about two-thirds the diameter of the shell, therefore 

 shorter than in any form of 0. s. depressa examined. Its internally 

 costate lower portion is relatively decidedly longer than in 0. s. 

 depressa, being over half the total length, agreeing with that of 

 0. cooperi. Inside the lower part has 5 or 6 fleshy ribs, smooth, as 

 usual, and the upper part has about the same number, but they are 

 lower, and both ribs and intervals are papillose. The duct of the 

 spermatheca is longer than in 0. s. depressa. Two individuals 

 measure : 



There are about 13 lateral teeth on each side, the inner 9 to 11 

 without side cusps. The transition to marginals is very gradual. 



Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). PI. 22, figs. 1, 2, 3, 4. 



Specimens from Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and New Mexico 

 have been dissected. All agree in having the internally costate 

 part of the penis longer than the papillose part, which at once differ- 

 entiates the species from 0. strigosa and 0. peripherica, in which the 

 costate part is much shorter than the papillose part. The penial 

 retractor is short, less than half the length of the penis in the smaller 

 specimens, but about two-thirds the length of penis in the large 

 forms from Yellowstone Park and New Mexico. The median part 

 of the penis is often somewhat swollen, but in other examples this is 

 not noticeable. 



The penis has usually four main fleshy ridges in the lower part 

 as in specimens from McCammon, Idaho (fig. 2), and the Black Range 

 of New Mexico, or there may be about 6 unequal ridges (fig. 1, 

 Yellowstone Park, No. 96,973), one of them continuing upwards 




191(3.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



351 



further than the others. In the Black Range form the ribbed portion 

 projects upwards into the cavity of the papillose part. 



Measurements in mm., of the genitalia of Oreohelix cooperi. 



Locality. 



Glenevre, Colo., 



7,000 ft, S2.1S5 



McCammon, Idaho, 



Station 1 



Eureka, Utah, Station 



6... 

 O. cooperi maxima. 



Yellowstone Park, 



96,973 



Black Range, X. M. 



Sta. 26 



MS 



r - 

 i. - 



«- 







2.4 

 5.3 



4 



10 

 9 



2 



3.7 



3.7 



5 

 5 



11 i 16-18 

 21 22 



15-16 



24 26 



Fig. 3 

 Fig. 2 

 Fig. 4 



Fig. 1 



Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis Pils. & Ferr. PI. 22, figs. 6, 6a. 



The specimen figured is from Shell, Wyoming (Pilsbry, Nautilus 

 XXVII, 1913, p. 50). The penis is short, its lower two-thirds 

 swollen, upper third cylindric; internally there are very low, short 

 folds bounded above by a low narrow transverse ridge, in the enlarged 

 part, the upper part having densely papillose walls. Fig. 6a repre- 

 sents the penis opened and pinned flat. The papilla? in the upper 

 portion are represented diagrammatically. The epiphallus is not 

 quite half as long as the penis. The base of the spermatheca duct 

 is enlarged, as usual. The uterus contained 8 embryos in the indi- 

 vidual figured, the largest of 2^ whorls. Length of penis 7 mm., 

 of its internally costate part 4.5; epiphallus 3.3 mm.; vagina 2 mm.; 

 spermatheca and duct 13 mm. 



The central and 5 or 6 inner lateral teeth have no side cusps. The 

 seventh lateral has a well developed ectocone. 



The jaw is striate as usual in the genus. 



The animal is purplish black above and on the sides, the sole 

 cream colored. 



The embryonic shell has 2\ whorls, is convex above with an angular, 

 not acute, periphery. The first \\ whorls are convex with irregular 

 growth stria?, some microscopic spirals then appearing. The last 

 third of a whorl has about 5 coarse but very low spirals, and the 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



cuticle, under a high power, is seen to be minutely crinkled, also 

 on the base. 



Oreohelix conoentrata (Dall). PI. 22, fig. 9. 



The specimen figured is No. 94,343 A. N. S. P., from Miller's Peak, 

 Huachuca Mts., Arizona. The penis is swollen below the middle, 

 length 8 mm., length of internally costate part 4.5 mm.; of epiphallus 

 4 mm.; of vagina about 3.6 mm. Diameter of the shell 15.5 mm. 



This agrees substantially with the large form of the same district, 

 0. c. form huachucana (Pilsbry, Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1905, p. 275, 

 pi. 19, fig. 6). Both differ from 0. strigosa by the swollen penis and 

 relatively larger costate portion, which occupies more than half the 

 total length, as in 0. cooperi. My former reference of concentrata and 

 huachucana to 0. strigosa as subspecies was clearly erroneous, and 

 due to the fact that I had not dissected enough Oreohelices to appre- 

 ciate their specific characters. In the general discussion of the 

 anatomy (Proc. A. N. S. Phila. 1905, p. 271), 0. strigosa and huachu- 

 cana were put in separate divisions. 



Oreohelix metoalfei Ckll. PI. 22, fig. 10. 



Collected in abundance by Mr. Ferriss and the writer, in the 

 Black Range, New Mexico. The penis resembles that of 0. concen- 

 trata and 0. pilsbryi, the median portion being much swollen, with 

 very thick walls, and broad, longitudinal ribs inside. The much 

 narrower, twisted upper portion has coarse papillae within, and one 

 longitudinal papillose rib. Length of penis 12 mm., of its internally 

 costate portion 7 mm.; of epiphallus 4 mm.; vagina 4 mm. Diameter 

 of the shell 19.5 mm. 



The radula has 12 lateral teeth on each side, like those of 0. s. 

 depressa except that the cusps are more slender. 



Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss. PI. 22, fig. 8. 



Genitalia about as in 0. metcalfei. The swollen part of the penis 

 has about 6 unequal ribs within; these project slightly into the cavity 

 of the papillose portion, which has one longitudinal rib. Length 

 of penis 12, of the ribbed portion 7 mm.; epiphallus 4 mm.; penial 

 retractor 4 mm.; vagina '4 mm.; spermatheca and duct 15 mm. 

 Diameter of the shell 17.6 mm. 



Although the shell of 0. pilsbryi has an astonishing similarity to 

 that of 0. haydeni, the genitalia show that there is no direct relation- 

 ship. 0. metcalfei is closely related to pilsbryi, being anatomically 

 indistinguishable. 




1916.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 353 



Catalogue of species, subspecies, and other named forms. 



Note. — An asterisk (*) following a specific or varietal name indi- 

 cates that a figure of the genitalia has been published by the writer, 

 and serves to show what species and subspecies require examination. 

 Several other subspecies of the Arizonian species have been dis- 

 sected but not figured. 



0. idahoensis (Newc). Coeur d'Alene district, Idaho. 

 O. cooperi (W. G. B.).* Black Hills, S. Dakota; (Rocky Mountains). 

 Forms trifasciata Ckll., Mesa Co., Colo.; confluens Ckll., Gar- 

 field and Mesa Cos., Colo.; elevata Ckll., Delta Co., Colo.; 

 typica Ckll., Colo.; minor Ckll., Rouett Co., Colo.; iowensis 

 Pils., Loess of Iowa; maxima Pils.,* Yellowstone Park. 

 0. c. stantoni Dall. Assiniboia. 



0. c. globosula Ckll. Summit Co., Colo. (Syn. globulosa Pils.). 

 0. c. berryi Pils. Snowy Mts., Fergus Co., Mont. 

 0. rugosa (Hemph.).* Near Brigham City, Utah. 

 O. peripherica ( Ancey) . * Bear River region, Northern Utah. (Syn. , 

 multicostata, Hemph.) 

 Forms binneyi, castanea, albofasciata, gouldi Hemph. 

 0. p. newcombi (Hemph.). Near Ogden, Utah. 

 0. p. wasatchensis (Hemph.). Near Ogden, Utah. 

 0. pygm.ea Pils. Near Shell, Wyoming. 

 O. strigosa (Gld.). "Interior of Oregon." 



0. s. parma (Hemph.). Spokane Falls, Washington. 



0. s. jugalis (Hemph.). Salmon River, Idaho. 



0. s. intersum (Hemph.). Salmon River, Idaho. 



0. s. limitaris (Dawson). Waterton Lake, Montana-Alberta 



boundary. 

 0. s. alpina Elrod. Mission Range, Montana. (Svn. : montana 



Elrod.) 

 O. s. subcarinata (Hemph.). Rathdrum, Idaho. 



Forms lactea, bicolor and picta Hemph. Same colony. 

 O. s. depressa (Ckll.).* Near Durango, Colo.; (Southern Idaho 

 to northern Arizona, Colo., New Mexico). 

 Form major Ckll. Mesa Co., Colo. 

 " sinistrorsa Ckll., Colorado. 



cornea Hemph.* Near Salt Lake City, Utah. 

 albida Hemph. Near Logan; Utah. (? Syn., Patula 

 strigosa var. alba Ckll., preoc). 

 " tooelensis Hend. and Dan.* Near Tooele, Utah. 

 0. s. fragilis (Hemph.).* Near Franklin, Idaho. 

 0. s. buttoni (Hemph.).* Box Elder Co., Utah; also near 



Ogden. 

 0. s. magnicornu Pils. Big Horn Mts., Wyoming. 

 0. hendersoni Pils.* Little Thompson Creek, 10 miles N. W. of 

 Longmont, Colo. 

 0. h. dakani Hend. New Castle, Colo. (? = rugosa Hemph.). 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



0. haydeni (Gabb.). Weber canyon, Utah. 



0. h. oquirrhensis (Hemph.). Oquirrh Mountains, Utah. 

 0. h. gabbiana (Hemph.).* Oquirrh Mountains, Utah. 

 0. h. utahensis (Hemph.). Oquirrh Mountains, Utah. 

 0. h. corrugata Hend. and Dan.* Small, nearly isolated moun- 

 tain, southeast of Webster, Utah. 

 0. h. hybrida (Hemph.).* Near Logan, Utah. 

 0. h. betheli Pils. and Ckll.* Glen wood Springs, Colorado. 

 Form alta Pils. and Ckll. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 

 O. h. mixta Pils.* Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 

 O. hemphilli (Newc). White Pine mining district, Nevada. 



O. h. eurekensis Hend. and Dan. Eureka, Utah. 

 O. tenuistriata Hend. and Dan. Between McCammon and Hot 



Lava Springs, Idaho. 

 O. carinifera Pils. Garrison, Montana. 

 0. bruneri (Ancey). Montana. (Not seen by the author, and 



unknown in American collections.) 

 0. elrodi Pils.* MacDonald Lake, Mission Range, Montana. 

 O. yavapai Pils.* Yavapai Co., Arizona, etc. 



O. y. neomexicana Pils.* San Miguel Co., New Mexico. 



0. y. compactula Ckll. Pecos canyon, New Mexico. 



0. y. extremitatis Pils. and Ferr.* Grand Canyon, Ariz.; also 



northern Wyoming. 

 O. y. angelica Pils. and Ferr. Grand Canyon, Arizona. 

 0. y. profundorum Pils. and Ferr. Grand Canyon, Arizona. 

 0. y. marise Bartsch. Squaw Creek, near mouth Gallatin 

 Canyon, Montana. 

 O. concentrata (Dall).* Huachuca Range, Arizona. 



Form huachucana Pils.* Huachuca Range, Arizona. 

 O. metcalfei Ckll.* Black Range, New Mexico. 

 O. pilsbryi Ferriss.* Mineral Creek, Chloride, Sierra Co., New 



Mexico. 

 O. barbata Pils.* Chiricahua Range, Arizona; also Mogollon 

 Range, N. M. 

 0. b. minima Pils. and Ferr. Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 O. socorroensis Pils. Socorro Co., New Mexico. 



Subgenus Radiocentrum Pils. 



O. avalonensis Hemph. Catalina Island, California. 

 O. CHiRiCAHUANA Pils.* Cave Creek Canyon, near the cave, 

 Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. percarinata Pils. and Ferr. Big Emigrant Canyon, and 



Paradise Canyon, Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. obsoleta Pils. and Ferr. White Tail Canyon, Chiricahua 

 Range, Arizona. 

 O. clappi Ferriss.* Cave Creek, etc., Chiricahua Range, Arizona. 

 0. c. emigrans Pils. and Ferr. Big Emigrant Canyon, Chiri- 



cahuas. 

 O. c. cataracta Pils. and Ferr. Falls of Cave Creek, Chiri- 

 cahuas. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



O. ferrissi Pils.* Near mouth of Sheridan Canyon, Big Hachet 

 Mountains, New Mexico. 



0. f. morticina Pils. Daniels Peak, Big Hachat Mts., New Mexico. 

 <). hachbtana Pils.* Summit of Big Hachet Mt., New Mexico. 



0. h. cadaver Pils. Daniels Peak, Big Hachet Mts., X. M. 



Notes on the preceding list. 



In presenting a new catalogue of a genus wherein specific values 

 have been so variously estimated, a brief consideration of the growth 

 and changes of opinion on the subject may be in order. In their 

 work of 1869, Binney and Bland recognized Helix strigosa, H. cooperi 

 and H. idahoensis as species, no others being then known. In 1878 

 (Terrestrial Mollusks, Vol. 5) Mr. Binney added H. haydeni and 

 H. hemphilU, and reduced cooperi to a variety of strigosa. In his 

 latest general work, Manual of American Land Shells, 1885, Mr. 

 Binney reduced haydeni to the rank of a variety of strigosa. After 

 this, the remarkable series from Idaho and Utah collected by Henry 

 Hemphill caused Binney to view the entire series of known forms 

 as varieties of stiigosa. This view was generally accepted, as Mr. 

 Binney was conceded to be the leading authority of his time on 

 American land snails. Mr. Hemphill went further than Binney, 

 ranking the whole group as varieties of the Eastern H. alternata Say. 



It may be noted here that a relatively small number of species, 

 from only a part of the area of the genus, were known to Binney 

 and Hemphill. The last 15 species of the list given above were 

 unknown at that time. This includes the whole southern group of 

 species having swollen penes and the Radiocentrum group (with one 

 exception), besides various lately discovered northern forms of very 

 distinct appearance. In dealing with the species and other forms de- 

 scribed prior to 1890 we return to Binney's earlier opinion, and 

 regard strigosa, cooperi, idahoensis, haydeni and hemphilU as species. 

 0. peripherica and 0. hendersoni, while near strigosa, seem to be 

 sufficiently detached to be considered species. 0. rugosa, though 

 near cooperi, is for the time given specific rank. Both of these 

 differ specifically from strigosa by the genitalia. 



Many of the subspecies now recognized were already defined by 

 Binney and Hemphill as varieties of strigosa. If the criterion of 

 intergradation with other forms were rigorously applied to them, 

 several would be judged species; yet in actual practice, and as a 

 temporary expedient until the territory is more fully explored, 

 we take the degree of differentiation into the account. In dealing 

 with the forms of single colonies, scattered over a great extent of 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



unexplored country, our present conclusions must be mere approxi- 

 mations to the facts, which future exploration may be expected to 

 bring out. In treating of forms which are in doubt it seems to me 

 better to attach them as subspecies to a known species, rather than 

 to increase the number of ill-defined species. Oreohelices sometimes 

 have strongly marked conchological features, but when this is not 

 the case, species should not be established in my opinion, without 

 anatomical examination. It seems likely that some forms now 

 considered subspecies of 0. strigosa will be elevated to specific rank 

 when their areas are well explored, and their soft anatomy worked out. 



The "forms" of the list above are of unequal value, but all are 

 inserted in order that all names proposed may appear in the list. 

 Some of them are mere synonyms; some are color or size forms, 

 from heterogeneous colonies, in which several mutations are per- 

 petuated in hybrid populations, 6 such as I have described in Achati- 

 nella. 6 Others are races probably deserving recognition in nomen- 

 clature. Much more study must be put on Oreohelix before we can 

 confidently assign all the forms to their approximately proper rank. 



0. cooperi (W. G. B.). No serious study of the races and forms 

 of this wide-spread species has recently been made. Many years 

 ago Professor Cockerell proposed several varietal names, but in the 

 absence of figures, the application of some of them, as well as their 

 status, has been uncertain. A recent communication from Professor 

 Cockerell quoted below, elucidates them so far as possible in the 

 present condition of the subject. 



(1) typica = 0. cooperi s. str. 



(2) confluens. (3) trifasciata. Color (band) variations of cooperi, common and 



well known to us here. Not in any sense special races. Type specimen of 

 confluens is in U. S. N. M. 



(4) elevata. A form of cooperi with more elevated spire. Merely an extreme 



of the ordinary variation of the species; riot a race. 



(5) minor. The name was originally given in Nautilus May, 1889, p. 8, and 

 referred to a small form cited by Hemphill. Later I found what I considered 

 to be the same in Colorado, apparently a distinct race. Henderson has used 

 the name for a race in recent years. Now we are both uncertain whether 

 the name should be applied in this sense. It is a fact that in certain localities 

 the shells are small and constitute a "minor" race, but whether all the 

 various colonies of this type have any connection with one another may be 

 questioned. The original intention was to follow the European custom, 

 and call all the shells below a certain size minor, not regarding the variety 

 as a race or subspecies in any sense. Henderson and I, after consultation, 

 agree that the status of minor must be considered subject to revision. 



(6) globosula. This we have, and can recognize it as a peculiar variation which 

 occurs in the Glenwood Springs district. It occurs in small numbers on the 

 south side of the river, along with the other forms. It may be a hybrid of 



5 See the valuable observations of Daniels. Nautilus XXV, 1911, p. 18. 



6 Manual of Conchology, Vol. XXII. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



some sort. It does not seem to be a distinct race or subspecies, but it is 

 not found in other parts of the state so far as we know. The type locality is 

 some, distance from the Glenwood Springs locality, but a wide range does 

 not appear probable. We can affirm, I think, that this is not a mere 

 variation of the ordinary type, such as confluens, etc.; but whether it is a 

 distinct, race may well be doubted. Further research is needed. 



(7) depressa. This you know well. 



(8) major. Simply a large depressa; not a race. 



(9) sinistrorsa. Sinistral examples. (Brit. Naturalist. ) 



Thus, only two names are at all doubtful, and here the doubt is essentially 

 one as to the facts of nature rather than of nomenclature. (Theo. D. A. 

 Cockerell.) 



0. cooperi form maxima is a shell with about the typical shape of 

 cooperi, but of large size, the type measuring, alt. 17.6, diam. 26 mm., 

 umbilicus 5 mm., whorls 5i, more rounded than in 0. strigosa depressa. 

 There is a band at, another above the periphery, and below the 

 suture a wider, paler one interrupted into maculae. Genitalia, 

 pi. 22, fig. 1, normal for cooperi. 



The type is from Yellowstone National Park 10 miles southwest 

 of Jardine, Montana, No. 96,973 A. N. S. P., collected by E. M. 

 Kindle. Other specimens are from Grade Canyon near Cokeville, 

 Uinta Co., Wyoming, collected by Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. One of these 

 measures alt. 17.7, diam. 26 mm. In addition to the markings 

 described above, it has a few faint brown circular lines on the base. 



Form iowensis Pils. is quite small, height 7.7, diam. 11.4, umbilicus 

 2.6 mm., with 4f whorls. There is a reddish band just under the 

 periphery, and the initial whorl is very convex and smooth. It is 

 from the loess, type-locality, Iowa City, Iowa. It probably stands 

 close to stantoni, which still exists in an environment perhaps not 

 very unlike the loess climate of Iowa. 



0. p. wasatchensis is so peculiarly modified that one is strongly 

 inclined to give it specific rank. The elevated spire, the compactly 

 coiled whorls and the peripheral carina all differentiate it from 

 0. peripherica. Yet 0. p. newcombii stands almost intermediate 

 between wasatchensis and peripherica. It does not differ from the 

 coarsest examples of the latter in form or ribbing, but it has a delicate 

 peripheral keel which continues as far, usually, as the last whorl, 

 whereas 0. peripherica has no keel in the later neanic and the adult 

 stages. Possibly both newcombi and wasatchensis may eventually 

 be ranked as species; but until further collections can be made, 

 I leave them associated with 0. peripherica, with the note that at 

 present we do not have actual evidence of intergradation. 



In this connection we may allude to the status of 0. pygmcea, 

 which may turn out to be a subspecies of 0. peripherica; yet here 

 again, evidence of intergradation is wanting. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Explanation of Plates XIX, XX, XXI, XXII. 



Note. — The "stations" referred to are those of Messrs. Henderson and Daniels 

 Expedition of 1915. 



Plate XIX. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.) Manitou Canyon, 



Colorado Springs, Colo. 

 Fig. 2. — 0. s. depressa (Ckll.) Harkness Canyon, near McCammon, Idaho, 



Station 2. 

 Fig. 3. — 0. s. depressa form carnea (Hemph.). Drv Canyon, near Salt Lake 



City, Utah, Station 43. 

 Fig. 4. — 0. s. depressa (Ckll.). First gulch south of Logan Canyon, east of 



Logan, Utah, Station 41. 

 Fig. 5. — O. s. fragilis (Hemph.). About a mile west of Franklin, Idaho, 



Station 38. Penis only figured. 

 Fig. 6.— 0. s. depressa (Ckll.). About a mile up Emigration Canyon, 



southeast of Salt Lake City, Utah, Station 46. 

 Fig. 7. — 0. s. depressa (Ckll.*). Ogden Canyon, Utah, Station 22. 



Plate XX. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix peripherica (Aneey). Ravine in east bluff of 



Bear River, just below Wheelon, Utah, Station 33, banded form, la, 



penis of same, pulled straight, with epiphallus. 

 Fig. 2. — 0. peripherica (Anc). Same station, white form. 

 Fig. 3. — 0. peripherica (Anc). East bank of Bear River below Cache 



Junction, Utah, Station 29. 3a, penis of same, opened to show internal 



structure. 

 Fig. 4. — 0. peripherica (Anc). Gulch opening into North Ogden Canyon, 



Station 26. A relatively smooth specimen. 

 Fig. 5. — 0. peripherica (Anc), Mountain northeast of Newton, Utah, 



Station 36. Smooth form of the species. . 

 Fig. 6. — 0. peripherica (Anc). East bank of Bear River, below Cache 



Junction, Utah, Station 30. 

 Fig. 7. — Oreohelix hendersoni Pils., one of the original lot. 

 Fig. 8. — Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Rock Canyon, east of Provo, 



Utah, Station 44. 



Plate XXI. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix haydeni gabbiana (Hemph.). Oquirrh Mts., 



Station 15. 

 Fig. 2. — Oreohelix haydeni betheli Pils. and Ckll. Glenwood Springs, Colo- 

 rado. No. 94,059 A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 3. — 0. haydeni mixta Pils. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. No. 94,058 



A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 4. — Oreohelix haydeni corrugata Hend. and Dan. Small mountain 



southeast of Webster, Utah, Station 40. 

 Fig. 5. — Oreohelix s. depressa, form tooelensis Hend. and Dan. About 6 miles 



northeast of Tooele, Utah, Station 10. 

 Fig. 6. — Oreohelix strigosa buttoni (Hemph.). Taylor Canyon, near Ogden, 



Utah, Station 16. 

 Fig. 7 '.—Oreohelix strigosa depressa (Ckll.). Oquirrh Mountains, Utah, 



Station 13. 

 Fig. 8. — Oreohelix haydeni hybrida (Hemph.). Gulch south of Logan 



Canyon, Station 42. 



Plate XXII. — Fig. 1. — Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.), form maxima Pils. Yellow- 

 stone National Park. No. 96,973 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 2. — 0. cooperi (W. G. B.). McCammon, Idaho, Station 1. 



Fig. 3.— O. cooperi (W. G. B.). Gleneyre, Colorado. No. 82,185 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 4. — O. cooperi (W. G. B.). Eureka, Utah, Station 6. 



Fig. 5. — O. haydeni mixta Pils. Glenwood Springs, Colorado. No. 94,796 

 A. N. S. P. 



Fig. 6. — Oreohelix yavapai extremitatis Pils. and Ferr. Shell, Wyoming. 

 6a, penis of same, opened, with the epiphallus. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XIX. 



PILSBRY: ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATElXX. 



PILSBRY: ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191(3. 



PLATE XXI. 



PILSBRY: ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191G. 



PLATE XXII. 



PILSBRY: ANATOMY OF OREOHELIX. 





191(5.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Fig. 7. — Oreohelix rugosa (Hemph.). Near Clarkston, Utah, Station 3. 



~,i. penis of same, pulled straight. 

 Fig. 8. — Oreohelix pilsbryi Ferriss. Type-specimen. 

 Fig, 9 — Oreohelix cona ulrntn (Dall). Huachuca Alts., Arizona. No. 94,343 



A. N. S. P. 

 Fig. 10.— Oreohelix metcalfei Ckll. Black Range, New Mexico, Pilsbry 



and Ferriss, Station 15, 1915. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



SOME BEES FROM AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA, AND THE NEW HEBRIDES. 



BY T. D. A. COCKERELL. 



In a paper published in Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1913 

 (pp. 28-44), I gave a summary of the then known bee-fauna of 

 Australia. During the last two years additional material has come 

 to hand, and the present paper represents the completion of the 

 later work, so far as the material now available permits. 



Perhaps the most interesting problem now before us in connection 

 with the new collections is that of the radical difference between the 

 bee-faunae of Tasmania and New Zealand. It becomes increasingly 

 evident that while Tasmania is very poor in genera as compared 

 with the Australian mainland, it is extremely rich in species in 

 comparison with New Zealand. There can be no doubt that careful 

 collecting in New Zealand will yield a number of additional species, 

 but it is impossible to believe that it will at all approach Tasmania 

 in the extent of its bee-fauna. The Tasmanian bees are very close to 

 those of Australia, and many are even identical, showing clearly the 

 derivation of the fauna. The New Zealand fauna is also wholly 

 of Australian type, but extremely poor in genera and species. Isola- 

 tion has prevented the accession of species from across the water, 

 but one would expect a much greater development of endemic forms, 

 something more or less parallel with the condition in the Hawaiian 

 Islands. The New Zealand species are all endemic ; Prosopis vicina 

 Sichel was said to occur in Tasmania and New Zealand, but it was 

 almost certainly based on a mixture, and the name is to be restricted 

 to the New Zealand species. "Andrena" infima Erichs., from 

 Tasmania, is probably, but not certainly, Halictus lanarius Smith. 

 Mr. Meade-Waldo of the British Museum agrees with me that 

 Paracolletes providus Sm. is P. chalybeatus Erichs. The species which 

 Smith called chalybeatus Mr. Meade- Waldo thinks should be united 

 with P. obscurus Sm. With these amendments the lists for Tasmania 

 and New Zealand stand as follows. The Tasmanian species also found 

 on the Australian mainland are marked with an asterisk. 



Tasmania. (79 species.) 



Prosopis alcyonea Erichs.* Prosopis perhumUis Ckll.* 



honesta Sm. xanthospheera Ckll. (King I.) 



hobartiana Ckll. accipitris Ckll. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



361 



Pachyprosopis Jluvicauda Ckll.* 

 Euryglossa waUeeriana Ckll. 



nigroccerulea Ckll.* 



fastiatella Ckll.* 



latissiina Ckll. 



nvbilipi nn is Ckll. 

 Callomelitta picta Sm.* 



//«/<■/•/ Ckll. 

 Binghamiella antipodes insularis 



Ckll. 

 Paracolletes chalybeatus Erich*.* 



obscurus Sm. 



viridicinctus Ckll. 



obscuripennis Ckll. 



hobartensis Ckll. 



carinatus Sm.* 



melbournensis Ckll.* 



/ecu Ckll. 



margined its Sm.* 



launcestonensis Ckll. 



sitbriridis Ckll. 

 Nomia submccrens Ckll. 

 Halictus orbatus Sm.* 



cognatus Sm. 



limatus Sm. 



globosus Sm. 



reprcesentans Sm.* 



furneauxi Ckll. 



fcftfy/n Ckll. 



6ass/ Ckll. 



baudini Ckll. 



boweni Ckll. 



demissas Ckll. 



imitons Ckll.* 



seductus Ckll.* 



semi poll tits expulsus Ckll. 



macrops Ckll. 



Hal id ks confusellu8 Ckll. 



familuiris Erich-. 



warburtoni ( Jkll. 



mitchelli Ckll. 



frwrfcei CHI. 



lanarius Sm.* 



hoematopus ( Jkll. 



Kttteri CHI. 



cyclognathus Ckll.* 



opacicollis ( Jkll.* 



niveifrons Ckll. 



disclusus Ckll. 



isthmalis Ckll. 



subinclinans Ckll. 



pulvitectus Ckll. 



tasmanioe Ckll. 

 Parasphecodes tilachus Sm. 



lithusca Sm. 



talchius Sm. 



stiichila Sm. 



alt i chits Sm. 



taluchis Sm. 



7-ecessus Ckll. 



pei'itstus Ckll. 



rhodopterus Ckll. 



rufotegularis Ckll. 



cervicalis Ckll. 



latissimus Ckll. 



excitltus Ckll. 



wellingtoni Ckll. 



turneri Ckll. 

 Megachile Uncopyga Sm. 



chrysopyga Sm.* 



ordinaria Sm. 



tasmanica Ckll. 

 Exoneura bicolor Sm.* 



hamulata Ckll.* 



New Zealand. (18 species.) 



Prosopis agilis Sm. 



agfi7is laevigata Sm. 



capitosa Sm. 



innocens Cam. 



maoriana Ckll. 



relegata Sm. 



cameroni Ckll. 

 (sulcifrons Cam.) 



vidua Sich. 

 Paracolletes boltoni Ckll. 



confusns Ckll. 



Paracolletes imitatus Sm. 



fulvescens Sm. 

 metallicus Sm. 

 pur pure us Sm. 

 vest it us Sm. 

 maorium Ckll. 

 Halictus huttoni Cam. 

 smithii D. T. 



• jinn iliu r is Sm.) 

 sordid us Sm. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Pachyprosopis saturnina Ckll. 



Perth, Australia, Feb. 1-7, 1914. (R. E. Turner; Brit. Museum). 

 The markings vary; the yellow at anterior corners of mesothorax 

 may be extended, curving round to make two bands on anterior 

 part of disc; there may be a large yellow extension of lateral face- 

 marks mesad of lower end of facial fovea? ; the scutellum in the Perth 

 form is practically all yellow. 



Euryglossina hypochroma sp. n. 



9. Length about 3.75 mm.; robust, head and thorax shining 

 black; abdomen dark, faintly purplish, above, but clear reddish- 

 yellow below; legs clear yellowish-ferruginous, the anterior femora 

 sometimes mainly black on outer side; mandibles chestnut red, 

 dark at tip; a large yellowish spot on cheeks just above base of 

 mandibles; clypeus and supraclypeal band fulvotestaceous (perhaps 

 yellower in life) ; a very slender fulvous line running up inner orbits 

 as far as facial fovese; scape with a light stripe; flagellum thick, clear 

 fulvous beneath; head large, subquadrate, front convex, shining; 

 tubercles clear yellow; mesothorax shining, with extremely minute 

 and sparse punctures, the disc microscopically cancellate; tegulae 

 testaceous; wings hyaline, nervures and the large stigma sepia; b. n. 

 strongly arched; first r. n. joining first s. m.; second s. m. sub- 

 quadrate; extreme apex of abdomen ferruginous. 



Hob.— Perth, W. Australia, Feb. 1-7, 1914 (R. E. Turner; Brit. 

 Museum.) 2 9 Allied to E. perpusilla (Ckll.), but larger and more 

 robust, with fulvous clypeus, etc. It resembles Pachyprosopis 

 atromicans Ckll., but is easily separated by the color of the femora, 

 much smaller second s. m., etc. 



Euryglossina flaviventris sp. n. 



9. (Type). Length about 3.75 mm.; head and thorax black; 

 abdomen black with a faint purplish tint above, the venter clear 

 yellow, the extreme lateral margins and the apex rather broadly 

 (the light color more extensive than in E. hypochroma) also yellow; 

 legs bright yellow, anterior femora sometimes marked with black, 

 hind tibiae and tarsi dark brown on outer side; mandibles fulvous; 

 a small fulvous spot on cheeks next to base of mandibles; linear 

 lateral face-marks as in E. hypochroma; upper half of clypeus, and a 

 supraclypeal band yellow; antennae fulvous beneath; front shining; 

 mesothorax microscopically tessellate; tubercles yellow. 



c? . Clypeus, supraclypeal area and comparatively broad lateral 

 face-marks yellow, the pattern essentially as in E. perpusilla; the 

 lateral face-marks have a small projection opposite antennae. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Hab. — Mt. Yule, Healesville, Victoria, Feb. 20, 1915, on Eucalyptus 

 calophylla rosea, 3 9,1 d 1 . (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum.) Very close 

 to E. hypochroma, from which the female is known by the dark lower 

 part of clypeus and the more broadly light apex of abdomen. A! 

 very close to E. perpusilla Ckll., but larger, with more lighl color on 

 abdomen. It may be better regarded as a subspecies of E. perpusillaj 

 but it appears quite distinct. 



Euryglossina perpusilla var. nana a. v. 



9. Length hardly 3 mm.; abdomen wholly dark above, yellow 

 beneath; clypeus and supraclypeal area wholly black (as in E. 

 cockerelli Perkins) ; linear lateral face-marks poorly developed or 

 absent; stigma dilute sepia. 



Hob.— Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Feb. 9-28, 1914, 2 9 ; also 

 one March 1-11. 1914, 850 ft. {R. E. Turner; Brit, Museum). Com- 

 pared with typical E. perpusilla, this looks distinct; but the Queens- 

 land perpusilla are so variable that it seems impossible to distinguish 

 more than a variety. Some Mackay females lack the supraclypeal 

 band. 



Binghamiella antipodes insularis (Ckll.). 



Mr. Littler has taken both sexes of Binghamiella at George Town, 

 Tasmania, March, 1915. The males agree with my B. insularis; 

 the females are what has passed as B. antipodes from Tasmania, but 

 have the same essential distinctive characters as the males. There 

 is sufficient reason for regarding the Tasmanian bee as a subspecies, 

 but hardly a species. 



Euryglossa depressa sparsa subsp. n. 



9 . Differs from E. depressa Sm. by the very sparsely though 

 very strongly punctured scutellum, and the anterior middle of meso- 

 thorax with scattered irregular punctures, instead of very numerous 

 fine ones; also by having the nagellum ferruginous beneath, though 

 this is variable, and sometimes very obscure. It is readily known 

 from E. subsericea Ckll. by the darker, brown-stained wings, facial 

 quadrangle shorter, etc. The mesothorax and scutellum are much 

 more sparsely punctured than in E. nigrocoerulea Ckll. 



Hab. — Mt. Yule, Healesville. Victoria, Feb. 20, 1915, on Eucalyptus 

 calophylla rosea — (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum). 3 9. Smith- 

 description is insufficient to indicate which is the typical race of 

 E. depressa, but I have taken as such the form which appears to be 

 common in Victoria. 

 25 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Prosopis extensa sp. n. 



9 . Length about 4 mm. ; slender, with long metathorax and 

 subclavate abdomen, looking like some small Pemphredomd wasp; 

 black, the front with an extremely obscure greenish tint; the thorax 

 dull, with the prothorax, pleura and posterior face of metathorax 

 shining; abdomen shining; head not far from round in front view; 

 mandibles, labrum, linear lateral face marks ending about level of 

 antenna?, lower margin and greater part of disc of clypeus yellowish- 

 ferruginous, the pale color on clypeus ending suffusedly above; 

 labial palpi with the second joint remarkably short and stout, almost 

 globose, the third and fourth cylindrical, the third twice as wide as 

 the fourth; maxillary palpi with the basal part stout, the second 

 joint longest, the sixth tapering at end; antennae rather slender; 

 scape yellow in front, flagellum pale ferruginous beneath; front 

 minutely punctured; vertex elevated, rounded; narrow (ridge-like) 

 upper border of prothorax and the tubercles white; mesothorax 

 densely sculptured with minute punctures and strise; area of meta- 

 thorax very large and long, minutely cancellate; legs black, the 

 anterior tibiae pale ferruginous in front; tegulae piceous; wings 

 hyaline, nervures and the large stigma piceous; b. n. falling far 

 short of t. m. ; first r. n. reaching first s. m. a considerable distance 

 from its apex; second s. m. very small, quadrate; abdomen with 

 microscopic transverse lineolation. 



Hab. — Mt. Yule, Healesville, Victoria, on Eucalyptus calophylla 

 rosea, Feb. 20, 1915 (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum). A very peculiar 

 little insect, with Euryglossina venation. It is perhaps most like 

 P. scintilliformis Ckll., from which it is known at once by the venation. 

 It is by no means a typical Prosopis. 

 Prosopis aralis sp. n. 



9 . Like P. perhumilis (which was collected on the same plant 

 at same time and place), but the white face-marks are extended, the 

 broad clypeal band having below (on apical margin of clypeus) a 

 transverse narrow band extending on each side at right angles, while 

 the supraclypeal area has a broadly triangular light mark, the 

 clypeal marking thus resembling an altar with pedestal at base, the 

 offering represented by the supraclypeal mark; hind tibiae with more 

 than basal third pale; all the basitarsi cream-color. The basal 

 nervure nearly reaches t. m. 



Hab. — Mt. Yule, Healesville, Victoria, on Eucalyptus calophylla 

 rosea, Feb. 20, 1915 (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum) 2 9 . Possibly a 

 variety of P. perhumilis, but apparently distinct. In the coloration 

 of the legs it resembles P. accipitris Ckll., from Tasmania. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Prosopis scintilliformis Ckll. 



9. Length about 4.75 nun.; black, similar to P. perhumilis and 

 oralis, but more slender; mandibles white, rufous at end: narrow 

 creamy-white bands along anterior orbits to level of antennae; clypeus 

 and supraclypeal area entirely black: first r. n. meeting first t. c.; 

 legs marked as in oralis. Scape with a light stripe in front; fiagellum 

 pale fulvous beneath; tubercles and transverse marks on prothorax 

 cream-color. 



cf. Length about 4 mm. ; slender like the 9; face below antenna? 

 (including transverse supraclypeal mark), and lateral marks with 

 pointed extensions upward at sides, all very pale ochreous (perhaps 

 yellower in life). The face-pattern is like that of the larger and 

 more robust P. perhumilis, except that the lateral marks have their 

 inner side longer, extending to beyond the middle of the supraclypeal 

 mark. Both have the fourth antennal joint extremely short. 



Hob. — Mt. Yule, Healesville, on Eucalyptus calophylla rosea, 

 Feb. 20, 1915 (R. Kelly; Brit. Museum). 3 9,1 d 1 . The species 

 was described (1913) from a single female collected at Croydon. The 

 male is very distinct from P. minuscula Ckll. 



Prosopis trimerops sp. a. 



9 . Length about or hardly 4 mm.; another species of the type 

 of P. perhumilis, but very minute, robust; face-marks rufofulvous 

 (probably yellower in life), consisting of a broad clypeal band, broad 

 lower margin of clypeus (leaving long-cuneiform black areas at 

 sides of clypeus), narrow lateral face-marks which end acutely on 

 orbital margin a little above level of antenna?, and large supraclypeal 

 mark, which is broad below, more narrowed above, and ends in a 

 broad truncation between the antennae; the supraclypeal area is 

 convex; scape with a light stripe: fiagellum fulvous beneath; thorax 

 robust, mesothorax finely lineolate and punctured; upper border of 

 thorax without pale marks, and tubercles with only a very narrow 

 yellow edge; legs marked nearly as in P. aralis, but hind basitarsi 

 with only the basal half pale: b. n. almost meeting t. m. ; second 

 s. m. broad, receiving first r. n. near its base. 



Hob.— Yallingup, S. YV. Australia, Nov., 1913, 2 9 (R. E. Tun 

 Brit. Museum.) 

 Prosopis vittatifrons Ckll. 



Perth, Australia, Feb. 1-7. L914 (/?. E. Turner; Brit. Museum). 



Paracolletes halictiformis sp. a. 



9. Length about 8 mm., rather robust, with short wings: black, 

 with mostly white pubescence; head broad: mandibles red. black 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



at base and apex; clypeus closely and very strongly punctured, but 

 shining between the punctures; sides of face and cheeks with con- 

 spicuous pure white hair; front extremely densely punctured, the 

 punctures strong, but much smaller than those on clypeus; area 

 behind ocelli with erect fuscous hair; flagellum short, ferruginous 

 beneath apically ; mesothorax and scutellum with very dense distinct 

 punctures; longitudinal median groove of mesothorax distinct ; 

 mesothorax and scutellum with evident pale hair around the edges, 

 but otherwise only with thin short brownish hair, not hiding the 

 surface; postscutellum with a tubercle, from which arises a large 

 spreading tuft of hair, partly brownish and partly whitish; area of 

 metathorax rugulose basally, margin finely beaded; posterior face of 

 metathorax with a large deep pit; legs black, the hind tibiae red, 

 the middle and hind basitarsi very broad; hind tibial scopa large, 

 sordid white, suffused with brown behind; tegulse rufotestaceous; 

 wings dusky; stigma small, dark reddish, nervures fuscous; b. n. 

 just reaching t. m.; second s. m. receiving first r. n. slightly before 

 middle; third s. m. receiving second r. n. nearly as far from end as 

 first r. n. is from first t. c; abdomen thick, very finely punctured; 

 hind margins of segments brownish; segments 2-4 with conspicuous 

 white marginal hair-bands, interrupted or very thin in middle of 2; 

 hair at apex dark fuscous. 



Hob — Yallingup, S. W. Australia, Dec. 1 to Jan. 23, 1913-14. 

 (R. E. Turner; Brit. Museum.) A peculiar little species, resembling 

 Halictus. It may best be compared with P. sigillatus Ckll., but it is 

 smaller than that, with much more closely punctured mesothorax. 

 It may also be compared with the much larger P. perfasciatus Ckll. 



Halictus urbanus Smith. 



Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Mch. 14-Apl. 14, 1914 (R. E. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum). 1 9 . This species, as I have recognized it, varies 

 considerably in size and the color of the legs; it may be composite. 

 The Kalamunda specimen is small, with red tibiae and tarsi, and 

 agrees with one from Brisbane. This appears to be the true H. 

 urbanus; the larger form (9 slightly over 6 mm. long), with black 

 legs, comes from Stradbroke Island (H. Hacker), and certainly would 

 pass for a distinct species, were it not connected by intermediates. 

 This Stradbroke I. form may take the name variety stradbrokensis , 

 nov. 



Halictus mundulus sp. n. 



9 . Length about 5 mm. ; black, with the mesothorax and scutel- 

 lum dark bluish-green; pubescence scanty, dull white, no abdominal 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



hands or patches; head broad; mandibles ferruginous, dusky apically 

 and black at extreme base; flagellum clear ferruginous beneath; 

 mesothorax moderately shining, scutellum more polished; area of 

 metathorax semilunar, densely irregularly wrinkled, the obtuse 

 margin shining; knees, tibiae and tarsi ferruginous, the tibia with 

 obscure dusky suffusion; tegulae amber color; wings hyaline, 

 stigma and nervures pale testaceous; first r. n. meeting second t. c; 

 outer r. n. and t. c. colorless and very thin; abdomen broad, polished, 

 with very thin pubescence: hind margins of segments obscurely 

 reddish; caudal rima bright ferruginous; hair of venter long, but no1 

 curled to form a true scopa. Microscopical characters; clypeus 

 very sparsely punctured; front striate, with punctures between the 

 straiae; third antennal joint extremely short, fourth a little longer, 

 fifth still longer; mesothorax lineolate, with scattered punctures; 

 abdomen with extremely minute punctures, best developed on fir-t 

 segment; hind spur with one very large obtuse tooth (like the last 

 joint of a finger) and one very low rounded lamella. 



Hob.— Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Mch. 14-Apl. 14, 1914 (R. E. 

 Turner; Brit. Museum). Allied to H. urbanus, but with the meso- 

 thorax quite differently colored. It may also be compared with 

 H. humilis, but is quite distinct. 



Halictus brazieri sp. n. 



cf . Length 11 mm. or slightly over; shining black, with scanty 

 dull white pubescence; hair on inner side of basitarsi and fringe of 

 caudal rima pale golden; outer side of tibiae with hair partly dark 

 fuscous; head ordinary, only moderately broad; mandibles black, 

 dark red at extreme tip; elypeus shining, with strong not dense 

 punctures, no median groove; front dull in middle, glistening at 

 sides; antennae pure black; mesothorax shining, with strong rather 

 sparse punctures of practically uniform size; scutellum with very 

 minute punctures, entirely different from those of mesothorax; 

 mesopleura coarsely striate; area of metathorax short, with fine 

 regular cross-striae, the basal middle with irregular rugae; sides of 

 area posteriorly bounded by conspicuous elevations; posterior 

 truncation strongly obliquely striate; hind spurs simple (micro- 

 scopically very briefly serrulate); tegula? black, a little reddish in 

 middle: wings slightly brownish, stigma dull ferruginous, nervures 

 fuscous, outer r. n. and t. c. much weakened; first r. n. joining end 

 of second s. m.; abdomen shining, with extremely minute punctur 

 no hair-bands or patches, but third and fourth segments, and base of 

 first, with thin pale glittering hair; hair at apex fuscous; venter 

 with short Miff hair. The wings are unusually short. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Hob.— Yallingup, S. W. Australia, Nov., 1913 (R. E. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum). Superficially exactly like Parasphecodes noachinus 

 Ckll., but the stigma is more obtuse at end, marginal cell shorter, 

 abdomen much more finely punctured, and basal nervure more 

 strongly arched. The punctureless apical area on first abdominal 

 segment is extremely narrow, less than half as wide as that of 

 P. noachinus. These two bees are really congeneric, the genera 

 Parasphecodes and Halictus practically meeting at this point. This 

 and the next are named after Australian naturalists. 



Halictus spenceri sp. n. 



cf. Length slightly over 8 mm.; black, rather robust, with thin 

 white hair, faintly ochreous-tinted on head and on thorax above; 

 abdomen without bands or patches, but a little pale hair at bases 

 of second and third segments, and ventral segments with broad dense 

 bands of white hair; face broad, eyes subemarginate ; mandibles 

 black; clypeus with a low-triangular creamy white patch, its surface 

 punctured, and with no median groove; antenna? long, black? 

 rlagellum moniliform; mesothorax shining (dull in front), with small 

 punctures; scutellum very finely punctured, not bigibbous; area of 

 metathorax semilunar, feebly sculptured, roughened basally with 

 fine rugae, the apical part microscopically areolate; mesopleura not 

 striate; tegulse piceous with a rufous spot, the anterior lateral margin 

 pallid; wings dusky, stigma dark fuscous, nervures light fuscous; 

 first r. n. joining second s. m. at end; third s. m. broader than second; 

 abdomen shining, with very fine obscure punctures; apex with a 

 large, broad, rounded, bright ferruginous plate. Front dull. Legs 

 black, with pale hair. 



Hab— Yallingup, S. W. Australia, Sept. 14-Oct, 31, 1913. (R. E. 

 Turner; Brit. Museum.) I thought at first that this might be the 

 male of H. brazieri, but the structure is too different. It belongs to 

 the group of H. cambagei Ckll., where it is easily distinguished by its 

 large size. Some specimens are only about 7 mm. long. 



Halictus tannaensis sp. n. 



9. Length a little over 7 mm., robust; head broad-oval, dark 

 bluish-green, the clypeus and supraclypeal area stained with crimson; 

 face, front and cheeks with thin dull white hair, vertex with fuscous 

 hair; mandibles black, obscurely reddish at apex; clypeus sparsely 

 punctured; front dull, very finely striate; head truncate posteriorly, 

 the occipital margin abrupt; antenna? dark, nagellum with only the 

 faintest red tint toward end; antennal joints 2 to 5 measuring (length) 

 in microns 128, 128, 144 and 176 respectively; mesothorax and 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



scutolluin dullish, yellowish-green, with slighl crimson tints, very 

 finely but not extremely densely punctured; dorsum of thorax with 

 thin brownish-tinted hair: area of metathorax semilunar, well- 

 defined, with regular straight plicae, on the basal half connected by 

 minute cross-ridges; posterior truncation very hairy; legs black, not 

 metallic, last joint of tarsi red; hair of legs black on outer side; hind 

 femora slender, arched beneath, with a long curled pale scopa; inner 

 side of tarsi with light ferruginous hair; hind spur with very long 

 spines; teguhv fuscous with a ferruginous spot; wings strongly dusky, 

 stigma rufofuscous, nervures fuscous, outer r. n. and t. c. much weak- 

 ened; second and third s. m. cells about equal, and together not as 

 large as first; first r. n. joining third s. m. near base, third discoidal 

 cell narrowed above; abdomen broad, shining, impunctate, obscurely 

 bluish-green, hair at apex reddish, caudal plate narrow, exposed, 

 venter with a scopa of long white hairs. 



Hah. — Tanna Island, Xew Hebrides, June, 1900 (J. J. Walker; 

 Brit. Museum). Allied to H. perpessicus Kohl, from Samoa, but 

 easily distinguished by the longer, more oval head. Also allied to 

 H. saffordi Ckll., from Guam, but the area of metathorax is quite 

 different. 

 Halictus epiensis sp. n. 



9. Length a little over 6.5 mm.; superficially and structurally 

 like H. to nnaensis, but easily distinguished by the following character- : 

 mesothorax and scutellum narrower, more closely punctured, rich 

 blue-green; area of metathorax larger, more finely sculptured, the 

 very delicate rugae joined by cross-rugse, producing a fine reticulation, 

 while apically delicate striae pass obliquely to each side of a fine 

 median plica; wings very dark (venation as in H. tannaensis). The 

 third antennal joint is very short, broader than long, a little shorter 

 than the second or fourth. 



Hab.— Ringdove Bay, Epi Island, Xew Hebrides, July 21. 1900. 

 (J. J. Walker; Brit. Museum.) 



Halictus pachycephalia sp. n. 



o 71 . Length about 6 mm., rather robust, with very large broad 

 head (wider than thorax) and short abdomen; black, with dull whit.' 

 hair, the legs ferruginous, the coxae, trochanters, and basal half < it- 

 more of femora black, anterior femora black behind except at extreme 

 apex; spurs pale ferruginous. Head about 2.17 mm. wide; mandi- 

 bles pale yellow with the apex broadly black; labrum pallid; clypeus 

 with a pale yellow apical band, broad in middle; white hair of fai 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



not concealing the shining surface; front dull except at sides, densely 

 punctured, with oblique (mainly transverse) wavy rugae above the 

 antenna?; a small shining space on each side of middle ocellus 

 anteriorly; antenna? slender, moderately long, the flagellum dull 

 reddish; length of antennal joints in microns, (1. = scape), 560, 

 (2.) 128, (3.) 144, (4.) 240; mesothorax polished and shining, sparsely 

 and finely punctured, median and parapsidal grooves distinct ; scutel- 

 lum shining, the disc impunctate; legs with pale hair; basitarsi 

 cream-colored at base, and a cream-colored spot at base of hind 

 femora; tegula? rufotestaceous with a pale yellowish mark; wings 

 hyaline, stigma and nervures ferruginous; stigma large; first r. n. 

 meeting second t. c; third s. m. large, broader above than second; 

 hind wing with four spines on costa much before origin of radial vein, 

 a group of four large hooks (close together) beginning at origin of 

 radial vein, and a group of three hooks a short distance beyond; 

 abdomen shining, very finely punctured, with a thin pruinose pubes- 

 cence, but no bands or spots; apex with white hair; a broad, rounded, 

 very obtuse red apical plate; venter not very hairy. 



Hab— Yarrawin, New South Wales, 1914. (W. W. Froggatt, 250.) 

 Related to H. spenceri, but easily separated by the color of the legs. 

 The red stigma and other characters separate it from H. dolichocerus 

 and H. hamatopus. 

 Halictus dolichocerus sp. n. 



cf . Length 5 to 6 mm., rather robust, with short broad abdomen; 

 head large, but not conspicuously so as in H. pachycephalias; pubes- 

 cence rather short, dull white; lateral bases of abdominal segments 

 2 to 4 with cuneiform patches of white tomentum; legs bright 

 ferruginous, blackened at base, anterior femora black except at apex, 

 middle and hind pair with less black; tibia? with a blackish patch. 

 Eyes rather strongly converging below; clypeus with a broad apical 

 band, which is angularly produced above in middle; face, and whole 

 of front, with rather dense white hair, partly concealing surface of 

 front; front dull; supraclypeal area polished and shining; antenna? 

 extremely long, dark, the fourth joint bright or obscure red beneath; 

 flagellum strongly crenulate beneath; mesothorax polished, finely and 

 not densely punctured; scutellum brilliantly shining, middle of disc 

 impunctate; area of metathorax crescentic, with weak plica?; margin 

 of area polished; tegula? rufotestaceous; wings hyaline, nervures 

 and stigma sepia; second s. m. variable; first r. n. joining second 

 t. c. or entering basal corner of third s. m.; third s. m. very large, 

 quadrate, sometimes longer than high; abdomen shining, very 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



finely punctured, apical half of second segment punctured, not 

 lineolate. 



Hab. — Type from Yarrawin, X. S. \\\, (Froggatt 225). AJso two 

 from Brewarrina, N. S. W., 1914 (Froggatt). The basitarsi may be 

 distinctly yellowish. By the general form and very long antennae 

 this resembles //. hamatojms Ckll., but it is readily distinguished 

 by the shining mesothorax. 



Halictus supralucens sp. n. 



9. Length about 6.5 mm.; of ordinary form, black, with rather 

 scanty white hair; dense bands of pure-white tomentum at extreme 

 bases of second to fourth segments, the central part on second hidden 

 by overlapping first segment; legs very dark brown, with pale hair. 

 Head broad; mandibles black, with a faint red subapical spot; 

 clypeus shining, with irregular strong punctures; front dull except 

 at sides, finely striate; antennae dark, flagellum with a very obscure 

 reddish tint beneath; mesothorax shining, with irregular large and 

 small punctures, the disc not lineolate or reticulate; parapsidal 

 grooves deeply impressed; scutellum flattened, depressed in middle, 

 strongly polished, almost entirely impunctate; area of metathorax 

 large, poorly defined, appearing rugose from a fine raised reticulation, 

 but the apical part smooth and shining; hind basitarsi with apical 

 brush brilliant orange-ferruginous; tegulse rather dark chestnut-red; 

 wings dusky, nervures brownish; stigma large, dull amber-color; 

 second s. m. large; first r. n. meeting second t. c. or joining apical 

 corner of second s. m.; abdomen shining at base, duller beyond, with 

 extremely fine punctures; caudal rima fringed with brown hair; 

 venter with white hair, not forming a curled scopa. 



Hab.— Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Feb. 9-28, and at 850 ft., 

 March 1-11, 1914. (R. E. Turner; Brit. Museum.) Near H. 

 mediopolitus Ckll., but sculpture of mesothorax entirely different. 

 Easily known from H. orbatus Sm. by the polished scutellum. 



Halictus demissus sp. n. 



9 . Length nearly 5.5 mm.; black, with the mesothorax shining 

 green, polished, with sparse punctures of different sizes, the parapsidal 

 grooves very distinct; scutellum also polished, but not green; pubes- 

 cence scanty, dull white, the abdomeD without hair-bands or spot-: 

 mandibles chestnui red except basally; clypeus shining, front dull 

 and granular; flagellum entirely dark; area of metathorax large, 

 with delicate but very distinct radiating stria 1 ; legs black; wings 

 hyaline, nervures and the very large stigma sepia; firsl r. n. joining 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



second s. m. a little before end; outer r. n. and t. c. very weak; third 

 s. m. very short; abdomen polished, shining, venter with a scopa of 

 long curled hairs. Microscopical characters: front densely covered 

 with elongated punctures running into striae; surface of mesothorax 

 very delicately reticulated; area of metathorax minutely reticulated 

 between the ridges ; hind spur with four obtuse spines. 



Hob. — Launceston, Tasmania, Nov. 1, 1914, 2 9 (F. M. Littler, 

 2,699). Related to H. hwnilis Sm., but distinguished by the dark 

 legs and striate area of metathorax. 



Halictus forticornis sp. n. 



cf . Length about 4 mm.; black, with very scanty pale pubes- 

 cence, no bands or patches on abdomen; head broad, eyes converging 

 below; mandibles pale yellow, ferruginous at apex; lower half of 

 clypeus pale yellow; middle of face shining, front dull; cheeks 

 unarmed; scape black; flagellum very long, thick, submoniliform, 

 light orange-ferruginous beneath ; mesothorax and scutellum shining, 

 smooth and polished; area of metathorax roughened basally, but 

 with a broad shining rim; legs black, with knees, apices of tibiae, 

 and anterior tibiae in front, ferruginous; tarsi very pale reddish 

 approaching cream-color; tegulae dark ferruginous; wings hyaline, 

 nervures and the large stigma testaceous; first r. n. joining apical 

 corner of second s. m. ; outer r. n. and t. c. extremely weak; abdomen 

 short, shining; sides of venter testaceous. Microscopical characters: 

 front striate; mesothorax with sparse minute punctures, the surface 

 of the disc not lineolate or reticulate; first two abdominal segments 

 distinctly but minutely punctured, the depressed apical part of 

 second transversely lineolate. 



Hob.— Kalamunda, S. W. Australia, Feb. 9-28, 1914 (R. E. Turner; 

 Brit. Museum). Very close to H. cyclognathus Ckll., but head 

 smaller, antennae longer, and area of metathorax different. 



Halictus imitans Ckll. 



George Town, Tasmania, Nov. 15, 1914 (Littler). New to Tas- 

 mania. On Nov. 29 Mr. Littler took H. lanarius Sm. at George 

 Town. 



Halictus seductus Ckll. 



Bridport, Tasmania, Oct. 26-30, 1913 (Littler). New to Tasmania. 



Halictus semipolitus expulsus subsp. d. 



9 . Flagellum black (red at end in typical semipolitus) ; tegulse 

 piceous or more or less reddish. 




19H).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Hab. — Georgetown, Tasmania, Nov. 15 and 29, l'.»l l (F. M. 

 Littler.) 



Halictus macrops sp o. 



cf . Length 5 nun. or a little over; black, robust, looking like a 

 female, the head very large and broad, the antennae i which are entirely 



dark) not very long; hair of head and thorax long, dull white, slightly 

 creamy on thorax above; on abdomen the hair is thin and rather 

 long, rather abundant on apical segments, but not forming bands 

 or patches; apical plate of abdomen very broad, piceous. Mandibles 

 dark red apically; lower margin of clypeus without yellow; hair of 

 face abundant, but not concealing shining surface of clypeus; front 

 dull; mesothorax polished, with fine scattered punctures; scutellum 

 dullish; area of metathorax narrowly crescentic, roughened, with 

 minute short plicae; legs black, with white hair; tegula- rufo-fuscous, 

 darkened in front; wings hyaline, stigma and nervures dark reddish, 

 outer r. n. and t. c. evanescent; first r. n. meeting second t. c; 

 second s. m. very narrow, third large, about twice the size of second; 

 abdomen shining, with very minute punctures, hind margins of 

 segments more or less pallid. Microscopical characters: clypeus 

 distinctly but sparsely punctured, the punctures emitting long- 

 plumose hairs; front densely punctured, in the middle also striate, 

 the ridges between the punctures emphasized; mesothorax distinctly 

 but not at all densely punctured, the surface of the disc not reticulate 

 or lineolate; punctures of scutellum smaller than those of mesothorax; 

 first abdominal segment and basal half of second well though minutely 

 punctured, apical half of second transversely lineolate. 



Hab. — Launceston, Tasmania. (F. M. Littler.) This may be 

 compared with H. niveifrons Ckll., from which it is easily known by 

 the broad face. 



Halictus lanariellus sp. n. 



9. Length about 8 mm., the abdomen large; black, with dull 

 white hair; bases of abdominal segments 2 to 4 with broad bands of 

 white tomentum, having a faint creamy tint, especially at sides of 2, 

 where it is very dense, the band on 4 so broad as to occupy more than 

 half the segment; legs black, the tarsi ferruginous at apex. Head 

 broad; mandibles obscurely reddish apically; clypeus and supra- 

 clypeal area shining and sparsely punctured; front extremely densely 

 punctured, not striate; antennae dark, flagellum faintly reddish 

 below at apex; mesothorax shining, strongly and rather closely punc- 

 tured; scutellum shining, depressed and punctured in middle, but 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the disc on either side impunctate; area of metathorax crescentic, 

 with fine plicse which in the middle run into a reticulation, giving 

 a subrugose effect under a lens; hind femora and trochanters with 

 long curled floccus; hind spur simple; tegulae dark rufous; wings 

 hyaline, stigma and nervures ferruginous; second s. m. very broad, 

 receiving first r. n. at apex; abdomen shining where not covered with 

 tomentum, extremely finely punctured; venter with long white 

 hair, not forming a curled scopa. 



Hab.— Yarrawin, N. S. W. (Froggatt, 233). Close to H. lanarius 

 Sm., but smaller and more shining. 



Halictus confusellus sp. n. 



.9. Length about 7 mm.; black, with dull white hair; lateral 

 bases of second and third abdominal segments with cuneiform 

 patches of dense white tomentum, the apical part of abdomen also 

 hairy, but not densely; legs black. Mandibles black, faintly reddish 

 subapically; clypeus and supraclypeal area shining, sparsely punc- 

 tured; front densely punctured; antennae black; mesothorax and 

 scutellum shining, but very distinctly and quite closely punctured 

 all over; area of metathorax crescentic, with fine radiating plicae; 

 hind spur peculiar, with a very broad rather short lamina, and a 

 low keel-like one beyond, the latter slightly inclined to be double; 

 tegulae rufopiceous; wings slightly dusky; nervures fuscous, stigma 

 dull ferruginous; outer r. n. and t. c. evanescent; first r. n. reaching 

 extreme apex of second s. m.; third s. m. much' broader above than 

 second; abdomen shining, very finely punctured. 



Hab. — Launceston, Tasmania (F. M. Littler). Known from 

 H. imitans Ckll. by the ferruginous stigma and shorter area of 

 metathorax. 



The following key will facilitate the separation of a number of 

 species of Halictus discussed above: 



Mesothorax green 1. 



Mesothorax black; abdomen black 4. 



1. Small species, with red (or mainly red) tibia? 2. 



Larger species, with dark tibiae 3. 



2. Green of thorax very bright urbanus Sm. 



Green of thorax obscure mundulus Ckll. 



3. Mesothorax shining, sparsely punctured demissus Ckll. 



Mesothorax dull, much more closely punctured subinclinans Ckll. 



4. Males 5. 



Females 10. 



5. Lower margin of clypeus not yellow macrops Ckll. 



Lower margin of clypeus yellow or cream-color 6. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



6. Very small, less than ."> mm. long, tarsi yellowish farticornis Ckll. 

 Larger, at least over 5 mm. long 7. 



7. Tarsi black spenceri Ckll. 



Tarsi red or yellow 8. 



8. Stigma ferruginous; head broad and massive....pachycephalus Ckll. 

 Stigma fuscous 9. 



9. Mesothorax shining dolichocerus Ckll. 



Mesothorax dull hcematopus Ckll. 



10. Small, hardly 5.5 mm. long semipolitus expulsus Ckll. 



Larger .11. 



11. Disc of mesothorax with scattered punctures of different size, 



supralucens Ckll. 

 Disc of mesothorax well punctured, the punctures uniform 12. 



12. Fourth abdominal segment, except broad apical margin, densely 



covered with pale felt-like hair lanariellus Ckll 



Fourth segment not so 13. 



13. Hind margins of abdominal segments reddened; area of meta- 



thorax with irregular sculpture pulvitedus Ckll. 



Hind margins of abdominal segments black; area of metathorax 

 with fine definite longitudinal plicse 1-4. 



14. Stigma ferruginous; area of metathorax shorter confusi llus Ckll. 



Stigma piceous; area of metathorax longer imitans Ckll. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



A NEW SPECIES OF ONCHIDIOPSIS FROM BERING SEA. 

 BY WILLIAM H. DALL. 



The 'genus Onchidiopsis Bergh (1853) was proposed for certain 

 Arctic mollusks related to Velutina and possessing an internal nearly 

 laminar shell. The minor characters of the few species known are 

 in many respects different but their combinations are so intermixed 

 that it is difficult to assign to the differences more than specific 

 value. However the peculiarities of the present species are such 

 that I venture to separate the genus into two sections, as follows : 



Genus ONCHIDIOPSIS Bergh, 1S53. 



Section ONCHIDIOPSIS, type 0. gronlandica Bergh. 

 Adult animal with an impervious notseum. 



Section ATLANTOLIMAX, type 0. (A.) hannai Dall. 

 Adult with a large dorsal foramen in the notseum. 



Onchidiopsis <Atlantolimax> hannai n. sp. 



Animal, after preservation in spirits, of a yellowish white color 

 except on the sides of the foot and on the osphradium. The foot is 

 muscular, broad, tapering and bluntly pointed behind, extending 

 about one-third of its length behind the hinder margin of the no- 

 tseum even when contracted; the front edge duplex, auriculate at 

 the anterior lateral angles; proboscis entirely retractile within a 

 transverse slit, below the short stout tentacles; eyes black, distinct, 

 completely imbedded in and a little above the not perceptibly swollen 

 bases of the tentacles, on their outer sides; verge situated behind 

 the right tentacle, large, twisted, at first stout and subcylindrical, 

 then deeply constricted; then compressed and expanded with a 

 conical papilla at the outer corner of the expansion 1 much as in 

 0. corys Balch. 



The sides of the foot are radially corrugated, the convex folds 

 sometimes more or less granulose; above the corrugated area and 

 in the pedal sulcus below the edge of the mantle the surface is smooth 



1 In Balch's figure of 0. corys this papilla is shown at the inner corner of the 

 expansion, a difference which is probably due to twisting. Cf. Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Museum, No. 1,761, pi. 22, fig. 1. 




1916.] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



and white, though the corrugations arc more or less tinged with 

 slate color. The visceral hump i^ enormous, subglobular, shorter 

 than the foot, height above the sole 52 mm.; above the sulcus 

 between mantle-edge and foot 40 mm.; longitudinal diameter 

 42 mm.; transverse diameter 37 mm. The hum]) is largely covered 

 by a thick, obscurely pustulous, almost coriaceous layer (the notaeum) 

 beneath which is a thin, transparent but quite tough mantle which 

 in spirits expands below the basal edge of the not a 'inn above the pedal 

 sulcus especially in front (though not as much as in 0. corys), like 

 a mass of bubbles, with a hardly perceptible sinus on either side 

 forming an incurrent and an exhalent channel, which however does 

 not affect the margin of the notaeum, the latter being entire except 

 for a slight incurvation in the median line in front. 



The summit of the notseum (in spirits) exhibits an ovoid foramen 

 about 30 mm. long by 24 mm. wide, through which the shell, covered 

 by the excessively thin transparent mantle, is partially visible. 



There is a transverse slit-like opening between the mantle and 

 the pedal sulcus, directly behind the head, in which the osphradium, 

 ctenidium and excretory outlets are situated. The osphradium is 

 of a greenish tint, with darker margins. The gill is translucent 

 white. In the former the filaments are single and elongated on 

 either side of the stalk, not short and double as in 0. corys. The 

 ctenidium has a single row of long, triangular, not auriculate lamellae 

 much as in that species. 



The jaw much resembles that of 0. corys, but the radula was so 

 deeply retracted that it was thought best not to break up the unique 

 specimen by cutting to extract it. 



The base of the arc of the shell measures 40 mm. long by 32 mm. 

 wide. It has much the shape of the bowl of a deep oval ladle and it^ 

 depth is about 15 mm. when in normal position. Its structure i- 

 concentric, not in circles but in a rounded-quadrate fashion. On 

 the edge of the left side behind is a knot-like nucleus. On the inner 

 surface near this nucleus and extending for a length of about 12 mm. 

 away from it are two elevated straight ridges, which at half then- 

 length from the nucleus join to form a single stronger ridge which 

 gradually diminishes and becomes obsolete on the inner surface of 

 the disk. The appearance of these ridges suggests that if the shell 

 was spirally coiled they would form a columella. The outer surface 

 of the shell, to which the mantle adheres tenaciously, is smooth, but 

 undulated by more or less irregularly disposed concentric wrinkles. 

 It is attached to the body only by a small area at the edge near the 




378 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



nucleus. There is no indication of a periostracum, and the carti- 

 laginous shell is nearly transparent. 



The specimen was collected on the beach of St. Paul Island, 

 Bering Sea, after a severe storm, December 5, 1914, by Mr. G. Dallas 

 Hanna of the Bureau of Fisheries, in whose honor it is named. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus. Cat. No. 215,162. 



This species differs from 0. corys by its widely foraminate notseum, 

 its much larger visceral hump, its single instead of double osphradial 

 lamella, and the character of its shell. 0. gronlandica, glacialis 

 and pacifica have an imperforate notseum. 0. gronlandica has a low 

 visceral hump and entirely different form of verge. 0. glacialis has 

 a proportionately much shorter and posteriorly pointed foot, lower 

 hump and different type of verge, and 0. pacifica shows much the 

 same differences. 



The disposition to "lump" together specifically animals of this 

 genus in spite of minor differences, is responsible for much confusion. 

 The differences of more than specific rank run parallel to those in 

 Velutina, where some species have the shell entirely covered by the 

 notseum and others have it more or less exposed. It has been 

 suggested that all species have the shell covered in the young, but 

 the specimens of all ages collected by me do not confirm this sup- 

 position. 



While the edges of the shell and its concave surface, except for 

 the portion near the nucleus, are free from the visceral hump below, 

 it is nevertheless completely covered by an extremely thin layer of 

 tough tissue which can be separated from the shell only with difficulty, 

 usually coming off in small strips. This tissue I assume to be an 

 extension of the mantle as it has none of the characteristics of a 

 periostracum. The entrance of the vagina could not be made out. 

 It required for its demonstration more extensive dissection than was 

 thought advisable for the unique specimen. The animal is pre- 

 sumably hermaphrodite, like the other species of the genus which 

 have been anatomically examined. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



THE ZOOLOGICAL POSITION OF THE SARCOSPORIDIA. 

 BY HOWARD CRAWLEY. 



In a paper recently published by* the present author (Crawley, 

 1916), evidence was given to show that the spores of Sarcocystis muris 

 are sexually differentiated. This evidence was based upon the 

 findings in the intestinal cells of mice to which the spores had been 

 fed. It is, however, quite possible that a careful study of accurately 

 fixed and stained spores taken directly from the cysts would reveal 

 characters serving to differentiate the males and females. Certain 

 authors, for instance Fantham (1913), in the case of Sarcocystis colli, 

 speak of two kinds of spores, but nothing of the sort has as yet been 

 demonstrated in the case of Sarcocystis muris. 



Nevertheless, as already stated, these spores are males and females 

 and within the intestinal cells of the mouse they quickly develop 

 along their respective lines. This evolution is completed in from 

 9 to 18 hours, after which fertilization takes place. 



My own studies shed no light upon later events. The fertilized 

 female or zygote can be found, sometimes within the epithelial cells, 

 sometimes in the subepithelial tissues, in mice killed one or two days 

 after inoculation. But as yet I have not been able to find the 

 parasite in mice killed at longer intervals than this after feeding. 



Erdmann (1914) describes and figures what are apparently the 

 multiplication stages of a parasitic protozoan in the intestinal cells 

 and tissues of mice killed some days after the ingestion of sarcos- 

 poridian spores. The precautions taken by Erdmann seem absolutely 

 to preclude infections with any other protozoan. Consequently, 

 as the case now stands, it seems entirely reasonable to look upon these 

 multiplication stages as derived from the zygotes. 



According to Negre (1907) the feces of mice that have been inocu- 

 lated by feeding the usual cysts contain a stage of the parasite 

 capable of producing the infection if fed to other mice. This is 

 present in the feces from the fifteenth to the sixtieth day alter inocula- 

 tion. It is evidently a resistant encysted stage, since it maintains 

 its vitality for 30 days in the dried feces, and is capable of resisting 

 a considerable degree of heat. When mice are inoculated with this 

 stage, both the time required for the parasites to appear in the 

 26 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June. 



muscles and the percentage of positive cases are the same as when 

 the mice are fed with the stages occurring in the muscles. Negre, 

 however, was not able to detect this element in the feces and although 

 it seems as if it must be present in the intestinal tissues for a long- 

 time after inoculation, it has never been seen. Hence the evidence 

 for its existence, while entirely satisfactory, is wholly indirect. 



Negre's experiments have been repeated at the Zoological Labora- 

 tory of the Bureau of Animal Industry, and his results confirmed. 

 The impression is, however, that the infections resulting from 

 i noculation with the fecal stage are heavier than those obtained from 

 feeding infected muscle. Microscopical examination of the spores 

 obtained in this manner show them to be precisely the same as those 

 resulting from the other mode of infection. 



As we have seen, Erdmann describes multiplication stages as 

 occurring in the intestine some days after inoculation. The parasite 

 then disappears to reappear at about the forty-fifth day in the 

 muscles. Several authors have endeavored to trace the history of 

 the muscle stages, but of the several accounts the most convincing 

 is that of Negri (1910). This author worked with the white rat, 

 but the parasites of the rat and mouse seem to be identical and 

 there is no reason to suppose that the development of one would be 

 any different from that of the other. 



The smallest and hence, doubtless, the youngest stage found by 

 Negri was an elongated body, about 25 n long. It was found in a 

 rat killed 50 days after feeding. It showed a delicate bounding 

 membrane and was rather indistinctly divided into a number of oval 

 elements, each with a central differentiation. This no doubt repre- 

 sented the nucleus. Negri designates these bodies as sporoblasts. 



In somewhat larger cysts the picture is clearer, the oval sporoblasts 

 being completely individualized, and each shows a very distinct 

 nucleus. 



From this point on development appears to follow very simple 

 lines. The sporoblasts divide repeatedly by bi-partition, each 

 daughter cell coming to assume the oval form of the mother cell. 

 The parasite itself, the so-called cyst, becomes larger, but this increase 

 in size is due merely to an increase in the number of the sporoblasts, 

 which do not themselves become larger. The entire mass remains 

 separated from the host tissue by the same kind of a delicate mem- 

 brane. 



Matters proceed in this way until the cysts, according to Negri, 

 have attained a length of some 600 p-. From this time on, however, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



the two daughter cells arising from the division of a sporo lasl do 

 not, always take on the oval form of the mother cell, but each r< tai 

 the form it had at the momenl of division and does no1 again divide. 

 The division of the sporoblast having been longitudinal, the form of 



the daughter cells is that of a banana and they are, in fact, the spori 



The production of the spores in this way is initiated in the central 

 part of the cyst. At the outset of this new line of development, the 

 cysts will contain many sporoblasts and few spores and there is no 

 doubt that the production of both spores and sporoblasts may take 

 place simultaneously in different or even the same parts of the same 

 cyst. Eventually, however, the divisions of the sporoblasts produce 

 only spores which finally come to be the only elements present 

 within the cysts. 



Bertram (1892) describes very early stages of the evolution of 

 Sarcocystis tenella in the muscles of the sheep. Several of his original 

 figures have been reproduced in most of the general works on the 

 parasitic Protozoa, and doubtless are familiar to all students of thes< 

 organisms. Of these, Bertram's figure 22, reproduced by Doflein 

 (1911) as figure 891 C, page 922, represents an element 47 /-* long by 

 6 /j wide. We have here what appears to be a solid body indistinctly 

 marked out into small round or oval elements, each with a nucleus, 

 It is strikingly like the smallest stage of Sarcocystis muris a- figured 

 and described by Negri. 



Bertram also figures somewhat larger stages of the muscle phase of 

 Sarcocystis tenella, and in these, reproduced by Doflein (1911) as 

 figures 891 B and D, page 922, the so-called cysts are more or less 

 completely differentiated into rounded or oval nucleated cells, the 

 sporoblasts. 



Since the Sarcosporidia are always classified as Neosporidia, it has 

 been tacitly assumed that the earliest stage in the muscles must be 

 an organism in which growth and spore formation take place coinci- 

 dently. The very smallest stages figured and described by Negri 

 and Bertram are capable of being interpreted in this way, since they 

 appear to consist of bodies of some size, indistinctly divided into 

 rounded or oval nucleated elements. Inasmuch, however, as these 

 bodies occur embedded in the muscular tissues of their host-, p 

 by no means easy to get clear-cut pictures of them, and it is whol Im- 

 possible that the rather indefinite appearances figured by these two 

 authors may be due merely to the difficulty of differentiating the 

 sporoblasts from the surrounding host tissues. In consequence, it 

 is not at all impossible that these earliest stages of Bertram and 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Negri may be only groups of sporoblasts, and it is in harmony with 

 this opinion that in both cases these authors figure slightly later 

 stages of the parasite in which the sporoblasts are completely 

 individualized. 



More direct evidence, however, is furnished by some material which 

 has recently been examined by the present author. This, from the 

 heart of a sheep, appears to show that at least in the case of Sar- 

 cocystis tenella, the sarcosporidian cyst originates from a single cell. 

 This conclusion is based upon the discovery of a single partly divided 

 sporoblast, lying in a minute cavity within a cell of the heart. Divi- 

 sion had progressed to the point where the two daughter cells were 

 wholly distinct, but still in intimate contact. The next stage found 

 consisted of a group of eight sporoblasts, also lying in a cavity within 

 a heart cell. All of these eight sporoblasts were more or less com- 

 pletely individualized. In addition to these very small stages, 

 larger groups of sporoblasts were found, up to cysts of over 100 p- 

 long. But in all cases the elements composing the groups were 

 obviously the same as the sporoblasts of Negri and Bertram. 



Thus the data furnished by Bertram, Negri, and the present 

 author are entirely consistent amongst themselves, and are mutually 

 confirmatory and supplementary. For although the earliest known 

 stage of S. muris yet discovered consists of a number of cells, about 

 six or seven, judging from Negri's figure, we can hardly ascribe to it 

 a mode of development different from that of S. tenella. Assuming 

 then that these data are accurate, a certain interesting conclusion 

 seems to follow. 



This conclusion is in effect that the muscle stage of Sarcocystis 

 muris is not an individual, but a congeries or colony of individuals. 

 In other words, the unit is not the cyst or Miescher's tube, but the 

 sporoblast itself. 



Assuming that this is true, the life history of Sarcocystis muris 

 would be as follows: The ingested spores gain the epithelium of 

 the intestine and develop into the macrogametes and microgametes. 

 The latter fertilize the former and produce the zygotes. By endo- 

 genous multiplication the zygotes produce a number of minute 

 elements. There is here a gap in the life history. It is evident 

 that two divergent lines are followed since, as we have seen, some 

 form of the parasite appears in the feces from the fifteenth to the 

 sixtieth day. It is therefore impossible to say whether the multi- 

 plication products described by Erdmann are those destined to 

 invade the muscles or to infect the feces. But whatever happens, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



it is evident that at the end of several weeks some form of the parasite 

 invades the muscles. This is either the sporobhist itself or 

 immediate forerunner, which may be the zygote or some elemenl 

 derived from the zygote. 



In any event, at a certain point in the evolutionary history, the 

 muscle cells come to harbor individual sporoblasts. These divide 

 many times by bi-partition, but eventually the products of these 

 divisions are no longer sporoblasts, but spores. It may incidentally 

 be noted that unless its development be interfered with, each sporo- 

 blast will presumably produce a cyst. 



It will be of interest to compare the several stages of the life 

 history of Sarcocystis muris with those of an ideal member of the 

 Coccidiomorpha. 



The sarcosporidian "spore" develops directly into the sexual 

 stages, the macrogametes and microgametes. These copulate and 

 produce the zygotes. In the coccidiomorphan, the merozoites pro- 

 duced at the end of schizogony follow an identical line of development. 



The sarcosporidian zygote divides into a number of small bodies, 

 the further history of which is unknown. The coccidian zygote 

 ultimately produces the sporozoites, although the details whereby 

 this end is gained are subject to great variation. 



In the sarcosporidian, some product of the zygote ultimately finds 

 its way into the muscle cells, and produces the colony of sporoblasts. 

 In the Coccidiomorpha, the sporozoites eventually find their way 

 into their appropriate habitats, which are always cells, and grow 

 into trophozoites. 



In the sarcosporidian, the sporoblasts divide a number of times by 

 bi-partition, after which spores are produced and division cease-. 

 These spores, in order to develop further, must gain the alimentary 

 canal of another host in which they will evolve into the sexual stages. 

 In the Coccidiomorpha, the trophozoites divide into merozoites 

 These grow into trophozoites, which again divide into merozoite- 

 and so on for an indefinite number of generations. Eventually, 

 however, the merozoites develop, not into trophozoites, but into the 

 sexual forms. 



It will next be in order to see what conclusions may be drawn 

 from the data given above. In so doing, it will be convenient to 

 divide the sarcosporidian life history into three portions, namely, 

 the sexual development which takes place in the intestinal .'pithelium; 

 the stage which follows this; and finally the stage which occurs in 

 the muscles. 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



In so far as the first of these stages is concerned, that is, the evolu- 

 tion of the microgametes and macrogametes, the parallel between 

 sarcosporidian and coccidiomorphan is exact. 



In the second stage, the gaps in our knowledge of the course of 

 events in the Sarcosporidia prevents as precise a comparison. We do 

 not know what happens between the time the parasite leaves the 

 epithelium and the time it invades the muscle, nor has the stage 

 which appears in the feces ever been seen. Nevertheless, the course 

 of events in the two cases must be more or less similar. For in both, 

 the zygote divides into a number of small elements which serve to 

 carry the infection either to other hosts or to other parts of the same 

 host. In the Coccidiomorpha, there is typically a first division 

 into spores, the protoplasm of which secondarily divides into sporo- 

 zoites. In the sarcosporidian, it is in evidence that the zygote 

 divides into small elements, the further history of which is not 

 known. But in any event, it must be some product of the zygote 

 which on the one hand invades the muscles and on the other develops 

 into the encysted fecal stage. It is conceivable that it is an encysted 

 zygote which infects the feces, but we do not know. 



In the third stage, the course of events differs in detail in the two 

 groups of animals, but the end results are the same, since in both 

 there are produced a large number of elements destined to evolve 

 into the sexual stages. In the Coccidiomorpha, there is extensive 

 growth, followed by multiple division, this cycle being repeated an 

 indefinite number of times. In the Sarcosporidia, there is an indefin- 

 ite number of bi-partitions alternating with only enough growth to 

 restore the element to its original size. In the one case, the Sar- 

 cosporidia, multiplicative energy is continuous, while in the other, 

 the Coccidiomorpha, it is periodic, but this difference is not essential. 



We may next endeavor to homologize the several stages in the life 

 history of Sarcocystis muris with those of the Coccidiomorpha. In 

 the first place, it is entirely evident that the sarcosporidian "spore" 

 is the homologue of the coccidiomorphan merozoite. The sexual 

 stages are alike. The multiplication products of the sarcosporidian 

 zygote are presumably the homologues of either the spores or sporo- 

 zoites of the Coccidiomorpha. The sporoblast is not so easy to place. 

 It may correspond to either the sporozoite or the trophozoite of the 

 Coccidiomorpha. A knowledge of its derivation is necessary before 

 this point can be determined. Since, however, the sporoblasts are 

 all of much the same size, whether occurring singly or within groups, 

 the distinction here between sporozoite and trophozoite would be 

 largely a matter of terms. 




1'.'16.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Attention may also be called to the homology of the sarcosporidian 

 muscle stage with the entire schizogonous cycle of the Coccidio- 

 morpha. In the latter, the products of schizogony are set free and 

 are enabled to invade new regions of the host. In the former, a 

 tissue reaction on the part of the host confines them in the region 

 originally invade* 1. 



If the line of reasoning developed above he sound, it seems to 

 follow that the Sarcosporidia are not Xeosporidia, but Telosporidia, 

 and moreover Telosporidia which obviously belongs to the Coccidio- 

 morpha. In the discussion given above, the various characters of 

 the Sarcosporidia and Coccidiomorpha were compared, the result 

 showing both resemblances and differences. But as will be pointed 

 out below, the characters of taxonomic value were those wherein tin 

 two groups were alike, whereas the differences had to do with charac- 

 ters not used in classification. 



Before, however, giving the reasons for regarding the Sarcosporidia 

 to be Telosporidia, it may be advisable to point out the difficulties 

 in the way of regarding them as Neosporidia. This group, which 

 constitutes a subclass of the Sporozoa, is defined by Doflein (1911), 

 p. 701 as composed of Sporozoa which may sporulate during the 

 entire vegetative period. 



Thus, a typical neosporidian will consist of a multinucleate organ- 

 ism, in the cytoplasm of which there will be a number of spores in 

 various stages of evolution. It has apparently always been assumed 

 that something of the sort takes place in the Sarcosporidia; that the 

 cyst originates from a multinucleate element which only secondarily 

 becomes multicellular. As we have seen, however, the cyst is com- 

 posed of separate cells from the very outset. Hence there appears 

 to be no good reason for regarding the Sarcosporidia as Neosporidia. 



We are now in position to suggest, at least tentatively, a new 

 classification for the Sporozoa. This class is divided into two 

 subclasses, the Telosporidia and Neosporidia. In the first, division 

 into multiplicative elements takes place only at the end of the 

 vegetative period. In the second, as we have seen, growth and spore 

 formation take place simultaneously. 



Following Doflein, the Telosporidia may be divided into two 

 orders, as follows : 



1. Coccidiomorpha: 



Vegetative stage continuously intracellular. 



Fertilization anisogamous. 



Sexual generation continuously or transiently intracellular. 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



2. Gregarinida: 



Vegetative stage, if intracellular at all, only so at first; adults 



always extracellular. 

 Fertilization anisogamous or isogamous. 

 Fertilized forms always continuously extracellular. 



In the Sarcosporidia, the vegetative stage is intracellular, becoming 

 extracellular only through the destruction of the cells originally 

 occupied. Fertilization is anisogamous and the sexual generation 

 is typically intracellular, becoming extracellular only by accident. 

 Evidently, then, so far as the main characters go, those of the Sar- 

 cosporidia are identical with those of the Coccidiomorpha. It 

 therefore seems allowable to place them in this group. 



Doflein divides the order Coccidiomorpha into suborders, as 

 follows: 



1. Coccidia: 



Sporozoites inclosed in spores. 



Zygotes nonmotile, mostly intracellular. 



2. Haemosporidia: 



Sporozoites always free. 



Zygote, as the ookinete, motile, and migrating into new cells. 



Judging from Erdmann's contribution, the sarcosporidian zygote 

 does not produce spores, but divides directly into what are possibly 

 sporozoites. This would place the Sarcosporidia closer to the 

 Haemosporidia than to the Coccidia. But the fact that the zygote 

 is apparently nonmotile indicates that the relationship with the 

 Coccidia is the closer. Obviously, however, the Sarcosporidia are 

 neither Coccidia nor Haemosporidia, but our very scanty knowledge 

 regarding this phase of their life history prevents us from defining 

 them in the terms used by Doflein for the two other groups. For 

 the present, it seems best merely to consider them to be one of three 

 suborders making up the Coccidiomorpha. 



The Sporozoa may then be reclassified as follows: 



Class Sporozoa. 

 Subclass I, Telosporidia. 



Order 1, Coccidiomorpha. 



Suborder A, Coccidia. 

 Suborder B, Haemosporidia. 

 Suborder C, Sarcosporidia. 

 Order 2, Gregarinida. 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



Subclass II, Neosporidia. 



Order 1, Cnidosporidia. 



Suborder A, Myxosporidia. 



Suborder B, Microsporidia. 



Suborder C, Actinomyxidia. 

 Order 2, Haplosporidia. 



It is to be observed that the characters used by Doflein to classify 

 the Telosporidia are not those having to do with the nature of the 

 life history. Thus, although the Haemosporidia have two host- 

 while the Coccidia have but one, these two groups are ranked ;i- 

 closely related suborders. Therefore the fact that we are still in the 

 dark as to whether the Sarcosporidia have two hosts or only one has 

 no bearing upon what is their proper place in the classification of the 

 Sporozoa. 



With regard to this question, the probabilities are that there are 

 two hosts. Indeed, such an hypothesis is more or less obligatory 

 when it comes to accounting for the wide-spread occurrence of 

 Sarcosporidia in purely herbivorous animals, such as sheep. As no 

 more than an interesting speculation, it might be suggested that the 

 second host, a carnivor, infects itself by eating the infected flesh of 

 a herbivor. The merozoites, released in the intestine, initiate the 

 sexual cycle and the encysted form is discharged in the feces. This 

 encysted stage, ingested by a herbivor with its food, eventual ly 

 infects the muscles and the cycle is repeated. Analogy would lead 

 us to suspect that the sexual cycle is, in general, confined to the 

 carnivor; the asexual to the herbivor. This view receives a certain 

 amount of indirect support from the facts that whereas the purely 

 herbivorous sheep and cattle are practically invariably infected, 

 records of the finding of sarcosporidian cysts in the muscles of car- 

 nivorous animals are very rare. Finally, the fact that in the mouse 

 both the sexual and asexual cycles occur presents no particular 

 difficulty. Mice are omnivorous and can infect themselves either 

 by eating the flesh of their dead fellows, or, as Negre first showed. 

 by the contamination of their food with the encysted fecal stage. 

 In conclusion, it may be mentioned that Negre's discovery is of 

 the utmost significance when it comes to an endeavor to elucidate 

 the life history of the Sarcosporidia. Yet, for whatever may have 

 been the reasons, it has been persistently overlooked or ignored and 

 hence has never been awarded the credit to which it is entitled. 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



References Cited. 



Bertram, A. 1892. Beitriige zur Kenntniss der Sarcosporidien nebst einem 



Anhange liber parasitische Schlauche in der Leibeshohle von Rotatorien 

 <Zool. Jahrb., Jena, Abt. f. Anat., v. 5 (3-4), 20. Oct., pp. 581-604, pis. 



38-40. 

 Crawley, Howard. 1916. The sexual evolution of Sarcocystismuris. Pp. 2-43, 



5 pis., 93 figs. 4°. Philadelphia. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., Jan.) 

 Doflein, F. 1911. Lehrbuch der Protozoenkunde. Eine Darstellung der 



Naturgeschichte der Protozoen mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der para- 



sitischen und pathogenen Formen. 3. stark vermehrte Aufl. xii + 1043 pp., 



951 figs. 8°. Jena. 

 Erdmann, Rh. 1914. Zu einigen strittigen Punkten der Sarkosporidienfor- 



schung <Arch. de zool. exper. et gen., Par., v. 53 (9), juin, pp. 579-596, 



pis. 17-18, figs. 1-40. [Issued 20 juin. J 

 Fantham, H. B. 1913. Sarcocyslis colli, n. sp., a sarcosporidian occurring in 



the red-faced African mouse bird, Colius erythromelon <Proc. Cambridge 



[Eng.] Phil. Soc, v. 17 (3), Sept. 8, pp. 221-224, pi. 5. 

 Negre, L. 1907. Sarcosporidiose experimental <Compt. rend. Soc. de biol., 



Par., an. 59, v. 63, v. 2 (30), ler nov., pp. 374-375. 

 Negri, A. 1910. Beobachtungen liber Sarkosporidien. 3. Mitteilung <Cen- 



tralbl. f. Bakteriol. (etc.), Jena, 1. Abt., v. 55 (5), 17. Aug., Orig., pp. 373-383, 



1 pi., figs. 1-12. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



COLD-BLOODED VERTEBRATES FROM COSTA RICA AND THE CANAL ZONE. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



During the summer of 1915 Mr. David E. Harrower gathered the 

 collections listed below, which were later purchased by the Academy. 

 Several of the fishes are new to science, and other records are for 

 rare or unusual forms. 



COSTA RICA. 



The collections made in Costa Rica were obtained at Guapilis, 

 the Chirripo River Valley and Port Limon, all in the Atlantic 

 drainage. 



Guapilis. 



A small collection of fresh-water fishes was obtained in the basin 

 of the Rio Guapilis. 



Astyanax aeneus costaricensis Mick. 



Head 3|; depth 2\ to 2f; D. m, 8 to in, 9; A. in, 25, i to in, 



27, i ; scales 34 to 36 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on 

 latter; snout 3| to 4 in head; eye 3 to 3|; maxillary 2\ to 2\; 

 interorbital 2| to 3; maxillary teeth 1-2 and 1-1, inner row 4-4. 

 Color when fresh in alcohol olive-brown on back. Broad lateral 

 brassy band, nearly wide as eye, changes behind into leaden-dusky 

 blotch at middle of caudal base, and continues out on median caudal 

 fin-rays to their edges. Hind edges of each caudal lobe narrowly 

 blackish, fin gray, and lower lobe tinged with red. Dorsal warm 

 brown. Adipose fin gray. Anal gray, darker along lower edge 

 and in front with median blood-red tinge or blotch, fading out behind. 

 Pectoral dilute reddish. Ventral bright vermilion. Iris yellowish. 

 Two examples 98 and 100 mm. in length. 



Alfaro cultratus (Regan). 



Color olivaceous above, when fresh in alcohol. Dusky median 

 streak on back. Iris olivaceous. Lower surface of body and head 

 paler than back. Dusky streak extends down each side of lower 

 jaw and on under side of head till opposite hind pupil edge. Dorsal 

 gamboge-olive. Caudal olive-gray. Other fins pale gamboge. Three 

 .examples, 52 to 58 mm. 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Priapichthys annectens (Regan). 



Head 3f ; depth 3; D. i, 9; A. in, 7; scales 28 to caudal base and 

 about 10 more on caudal basally; 9 scales between dorsal and anal 

 origins; 20 scales before dorsal; snout 2| in head measured from 

 upper jaw tip; eye 3f ; maxillary 2f. Gill-rakers about 15 short 

 points. On head above several large cavities or channels lengthwise 

 from near front of snout till over middle of eyes. A transverse 

 channel posteriorly also over eye on each side, and still posteriorly 

 2 more large pores. Color when fresh in alcohol olivaceous-dusky 

 above and on sides, all scales strongly contrasted by dark or dusky- 

 black borders, forming a prolonged reticulated pattern. Under 

 surface of head and trunk pale to whitish. Jaws dusky. Iris olive. 

 Dorsal olivaceous, marginally grayish and each membrane at base 

 with blackish blotch. Caudal gray, olive-gamboge basally. Pec- 

 toral pale olive. Ventral yellowish. Anal bright orange-red in 

 front, edge behind, and basal portion yellowish. One example, a 

 female, 63 mm. 



Poeciliopsis isthmensis Regan. 



Color of male fresh in alcohol olivaceous above and on sides, 

 lower surface of head and trunk paler. Each scale with dark edge 

 sharply defined and producing greatly contrasted reticulated pattern- 

 Row of underlaid narrow leaden vertical lines or streaks, about 14 

 in number, along middle of sides. Fins grayish, edges slightly 

 darker. Dorsal mostly tinged olive basally. Edge of intromittent 

 organ dusky. Iris dark. Length 43 mm. for largest, and 22 mm. 

 for smallest, in series of eleven examples. The smaller males show 

 the anal tinged with orange, and dorsal and caudal bases gamboge. 

 Also black dots at edges of scales. 



Adult female with scales very dark edged. Dusky spot on each 

 dorsal membrane before dorsal ray basally. Anal gray and ventral 

 whitish. Dusky blotch above vent. Iris olive. One example 

 50 mm. long. 



Poeciliopsis maculifer sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 4f ; depth 3f ; D. i, 8; A. in, 7; P. i, 11; V. i, 5; scales 29 

 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 9 scales between 

 dorsal and anal origins; 17 scales before dorsal; head width If its 

 length; second branched dorsal ray If; first branched anal ray If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal little longer than head; 

 pectoral If; ventral If; snout 3| in head, measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye3|; maxillary 3; interorbital If. 




1916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



391 



Body elongate, rather robust forward, deepest at ventral origin, 

 well compressed, predorsal region moderately depressed and abdomen 

 somewhat pot-bellied. Caudal peduncle somewhat large, elongate, 

 least depth but slightly over half its length. 



Head small, depressed above, convex below and profiles alike. 

 Snout broad, depressed above, and length (in profile) about half 

 its width. Eye rounded, rather high, and about midway in head 

 length. Eyelids free. Premaxillaries greatly protractile. Maxil- 

 lary little free, vertical, mostly concealed, and not reaching eye. 

 Mouth small. Lower jaw rather weak, slightly protrudes, and at 

 unison of rami rather weak, shallow. Teeth small, uniform, simple, 

 conic, in a single row and flexibly fastened at bases. Lips rather 



Fig. 1. — Poeciliopsis maculifer Fowler. 



thin. Tongue small, depressed, free in front. Nostril close above 

 upper front eye edge. Interorbital flattened. Preopercle ridge 

 inclined slightly forward. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge. 

 Rakers about 16 short weak points, about § of filaments, and latter 

 about half of eye. 



Scales large, cycloid, narrowly imbricated, largest on upper surface 

 of head, and become small on caudal peduncle behind. Scales on 

 breast and belly but little smaller than those on sides. Caudal base 

 with several irregular rows of small scales. Several rather large 

 pores or pits on head above, one directly behind upper hind edge of 

 eye. Mucous channel, opening by several pores, along edge of pre- 

 opercle. Side of snout with several smaller pores. 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June r 



Dorsal inserted about midway between hind pupil edge and 

 caudal base, second branched ray highest, and depressed fin extending 

 slightly over half way to caudal base. Anal inserted slightly behind 

 dorsal origin, reaches about halfway to caudal base when depressed, 

 and first branched ray longest. Both dorsal and anal form distinct 

 point in front at tip of second branched ray, and upper front edge 

 of each also slightly emarginate. Caudal with hind edge convex,, 

 each corner forming slight angle. Pectoral rather broad, extends 

 back opposite ventral origin. Ventral inserted about midway 

 between pectoral and anal origins, depressed fin reaching latter, and 

 first branched ray longest. Vent and genital orifice close before anal. 



Color when fresh in alcohol olive-yellow generally above, edges 

 of scales darker. Lower surface of head and belly pale to whitish. 

 Dorsal bright orange-yellow, edge gray and base broadly jet-black. 

 Caudal grayish, base yellowish. Pectoral pale olive. Anal and 

 ventral whitish, tinged with yellowish medianly. Broad dark brown 

 median streak down back and brownish line along lower surface of 

 caudal peduncle from anal to caudal base. Iris olive. 



Length 55 mm. 



Type, No. 45,391, A. N. S. P. (Female.) Rio Guapilis at Guapilis, 

 Costa Rica. July, 1915. D. E. Harrower. 



Also Nos. 45,392 to 45,394, same data, paratypes, all females. 

 They show: Head 3§ to 4; depth 3f to 4; D. i, 8; A. in, 7; scales 

 30 to 32 in lateral series to caudal base and 3 more on latter; snout 

 3 to 3| in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f to 2f ; inter- 

 orbital 2; length 25 to 46 mm. 



Allied with the preceding species in having the dorsal origin slightly 

 before that of the anal. It differs in the more elongate body. In 

 the small head it resembles P. -pittieri, though that species is said to 

 have the depth 2.6 to 2.8. The jaws are not so broadly truncate 

 as in Pcecilopsis generally, but have a more rounded appearance 

 laterally, as in Fundulus and allied genera. 



{Macula, spot; fero, to bear; with reference to the black basal 

 dorsal blotch.) 



Mollienisia sphenops tropica (Meek). 



Color of adult female generally olivaceous, under surface of head 

 and trunk paler, when fresh in alcohol. Along side of trunk each 

 scale with small obscure orange spot, producing lengthwise streaks. 

 Dorsal olive, base jet-black over good portion. Caudal and pectoral 

 dull olive. Anal orange, hind edge whitish. Ventral whitish. Iris 

 olive. Length 6Q mm. 




L916.] NATURAL SCIEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



Adult male similar, excepl black on dorsal broken into numerous 



-mall rounded spots, and caudal base slightly mottled. Lower fins 

 whitish. Length 48 mm. 



A large female is uniform dark olive above, and paler or whitish 

 below. Fins all paler. Dorsal blotched with black m front a1 bas 

 and behind basally with some small black dots. Altogether a -cries 

 of six example-, and all show a black dorsal blotch. 



No orange spots on the scales are mentioned for Platypoecilus 

 tropicus Meek and Pcecilia tenuis Meek. Under .1/. sphenops Regan 

 says, 1 "often a dark spot on each scale of side of body" in female, 

 and in male "spots on sides rarely present." 



Cichlasoma spilurus (Gunther). 



Head 2|; depth 2\ to 2f ; D. XVII, 10, i; A. VIII or IX, 8, i; 

 snout 2\ to 2| in head; eye 3| to 4; maxillary 3i to 5; interorbital 

 2\ to 3|. In the small example general color olivaceous, with nine 

 vertical darker bars wider than interspaces along back and sides 

 above, fifth little enlarged medianly as jet-black blotch, and last at 

 caudal base similar. Fins all grayish, ventral brownish along front 

 edge. The larger example is obscure brownish generally, tinged with 

 moss-green on soft dorsal, anal, caudal, pectoral and sides of head. 

 Eight vertical dusky-brown bars, little broader than interspaces, 

 fourth and last black and greatly pronounced. Spinous dorsal, 

 anal and front ventral edge dusky, rest of fin like back. Iris slaty. 

 Lower lip pale. Two examples, 70 and 104 mm. long. 

 Cichlasoma alfari Meek. 



Head 2f to 2\; depth 2\ to 2\; D. XVII or XVIII, 10 or 11; 

 A. VII, 8 or 9; scales 20 or 21 in upper 1.1. (9 tubes in young), and 

 8 to 12 in lower 1.1. (3 tubes in young); snout 2\ to 3| in head; eve 

 3 to 3^; maxillary 3j to 4; interorbital 2\ to 3f. Color in alcohol 

 brownish above, paler to whitish below. Snout with grayish tinge. 

 A number of rather large gray-blue spots on preorbital region, 

 cheek, and opercles. Dusky streak from eye to suprascapula, along 

 side of body to caudal base above, ending in black pale-edged ocellus 

 about size of pupil. Six broad transverse dusky-olive bands cross 

 dark lateral streak, each much wider than interspaces. Behind 

 pectoral dark band broken regularly by pale vertical interspace-, 

 first and penultimate resulting dark blotches especially dark or 

 blackish. Costal region with pale round median spot, on each scale, 

 and hind edge of each scale also with dark vertical bar. Vertical 



1 Proc. Z. Soc. London, 1913, p. 1013. 




-394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



fins grayish on outer portions, brownish basally, with obscurely 

 mottled appearance on spinous dorsal. Last membranes of soft 

 dorsal and anal with few small pale gray spots, also similar spots on 

 middle of caudal. Pectoral gray. Ventral whitish, gray-brown on 

 front outer portion, hind edges white. Iris neutral tint. In the 

 young examples edge of spinous dorsal and front upper edge of soft 

 dorsal maroon-color, fins blotched lengthwise with darker olive. 

 Several pale spots at bases of last dorsal and anal rays. Front 

 ventral edge and lower anal edge broadly gamboge. 

 Length 33 to 100 mm. 



Bufo valliceps Wiegmann. 



Four examples, snout to vent 26 to 40 mm. 



Hyla bocourti (Mocquard). 



Head little longer than wide. Snout rounded, little longer than 

 •eye. Canthus rostralis distinct. Loreal region slightly oblique and 

 concave. Tongue ovoid, slightly emarginate behind. Vomerine 

 teeth in two small slightly oblique groups between choanae. Inter- 

 orbital little wider than upper eyelid. Tympanum distinct, nearly 

 "half diameter of eye. Skin weakly though finely granular above, 

 belly and lower femoral region coarsely granular, Fingers very 

 slightly webbed at bases. Toes two-thirds webbed, and disks half 

 size of tympanum. Distinct fold along inner tarsal edge. Gray- 

 brown above paler or whitish beneath, in alcohol. Dull brownish 

 obscure interorbital bar, and similar band from each upper eyelid 

 down back to vent, with narrow vertebral separation. More con- 

 trasted dark brown band from each side of snout tip back to eye, 

 including tympanum and ending in groin, and narrow whitish line 

 along its entire upper edge. Length, from snout to vent, 17 mm. 



It resembles Hyla eximia Baird in having the dark lateral band 

 from snout to groin. It differs in the obscure dark dorsal band 

 each side of the vertebral line and the toes better webbed. 



Eleutherodactylus humeralis sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Body well depressed, elongately ovoid in contour as seen from 

 above, and width slightly greater than length of head. Latter very 

 broad, well depressed. Snout flattened above, and contour as seen 

 from above broadly triangular, tip obtuse. Canthus rostralis 

 distinct. Loreal region level and oblique. Eye moderate, about 

 f length of snout, or equal to space between front eye edge and 

 nostril. Mouth large, rictus falling about opposite hind edge of eye. 

 lips moderate. Maxillary teeth uniserial, conic, mostly uniform. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



395 



Vomerine teeth in two large patches, rather, closely approximate!, 

 oblique, and behind hind edges of choanse. Tongue broadly ovoid, 

 last third free, and hind edge generally convex, except slight median 

 emargination. Choanse smaller than vomerine patches of teeth. 

 InterorbitaJ flattened, upper eyelid § its width. Tympanum ellip- 

 soid, £ eye-diameter. 



Skin largely smooth, a few granules around vent and post-femoral 



region. 



No distinct fold across throat or breast. 



Fig. 2. — Eleutkerodactylus humeralis Fowler. 



Limbs all slender. Fingers free, and only outer toes one-third 

 webbed. First finger little longer than second, and slightly swollen 

 basally. Third finger longest. Tubercles on phalanges apparently 

 well developed. Disks on toes and fingers moderately small, rounded, 

 apparently not quite half size of tympanum. Toes slender, fourth 

 much longest. Apparently no tarsal fold, though hind tubercle 

 distinct. 



Color in alcohol pale gray-brown generally above, lower surfaces 

 27 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



largely uniform whitish. On upper surface of snout two small 

 blackish rings, near canthus rostralis and midway in snout length. 

 On each scapular region two similar ones. Narrow dusky streak or 

 line across interorbital from one eyelid to the other. Dusky-black 

 band from each side of snout tip back below eye including tympanum 

 to shoulder. Several obscure dusky small circles form irregular 

 dark triangle on front of pelvis above. Each joint of fore limbs with 

 several obscure brownish transverse bars, one of which, with black 

 blotch, on each ulna and humerus. Hind limbs with three or more 

 similar obscure cross-bars. Outer surface of femur near knee with 

 three more or less connected blackish blotches. Both outer and 

 inner edges of hind limbs, including tibia, tarsus and metatarsus, 

 dusky. Lips mottled with brownish. 



Length, from snout tip to vent, 33 mm. 



Type, No. 19,593, A. N. S. P. Guapilis, Costa Rica. July, 1915. 

 D. E. Harrower. 



This species appears closely related to E. bocourti (Brocchi), 2 but 

 differs in several respects. E. bocourti has the partly circular tongue 

 entire, the tympanum one-third the eye, first and second fingers of 

 nearly equal length, toes with a rudimentary web, and arms and 

 legs marbled with brown above. 



(Humeralis, with reference to the dark blotches on the humerus 

 near the knee.) 



Dendrobates tinctorum (Keferstein). 



One example dull crimson-purple above, variegated with darker 

 markings. A small one beautiful dark crimson, marked with blackish 

 dots on the back and head above. Its lower surface is blotched with 

 blackish. Another larger example buff in general tint, marked or 

 speckled with blackish above, and upper surface of hind limbs, and 

 lower surface of same, blackish. Throat and belly pale buff, with 

 few scattered dusky specks. Altogether four, 13 to 22 mm., measured 

 from snout to vent. 



Rana caeruleopunctata Steindachner. 



Color in alcohol dark olive on back, with obscure small rounded 

 dull dark bluish spots down middle from between eyes to vent. 

 Blackish band begins on each side of snout near tip, extends back 

 below eye, broadens, includes tympanum and continues to groin, 

 edged very narrowly above its whole extent with whitish line. From 



^ 2 Hylodes bocourti Brocchi, Miss. Sc. Mex. Batr., 187 , 50, PI. 16, fig. 2. 

 Coban, Guatemala. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



below eye to shoulder distinct broader white line forms pan of 

 lower margin. Dusky band from fore part of shoulder on front 

 forearm. Front limbs brownish, blotched with darker, and brown 

 streak along entire hind edges. Hind limbs brownish above, each 

 with two or three dusky cross-bars on upper surfaces. Hind surface 

 of each femoral region above with two large golden blotches, lower 

 surface mostly whitish and immaculate. Throat, breast, and belly 

 mottled brownish-dusky. Glandular fold scarcely developed. 

 Length, snout tip to vent, 28 mm. 



Chirripo River Valley. 

 A few specimens were obtained in this region during late July. 

 Phryniscus varius (Keferatein). 



Color when fresh brilliant moss-green, marked with bright chrome- 

 yellow spots on back and cross-bars on upper surfaces of limbs. 

 Lower surface of body pale yellowish, marked with slaty blotches and 

 irregular splotches or bands. 



Another example also bright green above, finely speckled with 

 blackish, yellow blotches edged with dusky, and sides slaty-gray. 

 Under surface pale yellowish-white with irregular slaty-gray blotches, 

 more sharply defined on lower femoral region. 



A third example black above with bright cadmium-orange blotches 

 from behind eye on sides and upper surfaces of limbs. Middle of 

 back with small chrome-yellow specks. Lower surface of head and 

 line above upper lip chrome-yellow, throat with several large black 

 blotches. Under surface of head black, like back marked with 

 chrome-yellow blotches. 



Length 31 to 41 mm., from snout tip to vent. 



Oxybelis acuminatus (Wied). 



One example, 392 mm. 



Port Lemon. 



A more representative collection was gathered during July and 

 August than elsewhere in Costa Rica during this trip. The fishes; 

 were all obtained from fishermen or in the markets. 



Albula vulpes (Linne). 



One, 147 mm. long. 



Sardinella humeralis (Valenciennes). 



Four examples, 115 to 120 mm. 



Opi8tb.onema oglinum (Le Sueur). 



One, 190 mm. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Scomberomorus cavalla (Cuvier). 



Two, 127 to 195 mm. 



Uaranx crysos (Mitchill). 



One, 125 mm. 



Caranx latus Agaasiz. 



One, 97 mm. Head 3; depth 2\; scutes 35; snout 3| in head; 

 eye 3|; maxillary 2^-; interorbital 3f ; curved part of lateral line 

 If in straight portion. Opercular spot obsolete. Narrow naked 

 area medianly on front of breast. 



Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). 

 Two, 122 and 131 mm. 



<Chloroscombrus chrysurus (Linne). 



Four, 118 to 140 mm. 



Traohinotus glaucus (Bloch). 

 One, 128 mm. 



Trachinotus argenteus Valenciennes. 



Head 3|; depth 2; D. I, VI-I, 23; A. II-I, 21; snout 4 in head; 

 eye 3£; maxillary 2|; interorbital 2f. Body deep, compressed. 

 Head compressed. Snout broadly convex, length half its width. 

 Eye large, adipose-eyelid rather well developed. Maxillary reaches 

 about opposite first third in eye. Teeth fine, conic, in narrow band 

 above and in broad band below. Mouth rather small, lower jaw 

 much shorter. Nostrils together on middle of front surface of 

 snout. Interorbital high, convex. Rakers about 6 + 10, lanceolate, 

 about j of eye. Scales small. Lateral line complete, slightly wavy 

 in front. Last dorsal spine longest. Soft dorsal with distinct lobe 

 in front, and when depressed reaches f in total length of fin. Soft 

 anal also with short front lobe, when depressed § total length of 

 fin. Caudal strongly forked, tip of each lobe sharp, and an eye- 

 diameter longer than head. Pectoral 1^ in head. Ventral shorter, 

 2| in head. Color in alcohol grayish above, sides and below silvery- 

 white. Front lobe of soft dorsal dusky, also outer edge of upper 

 caudal lobe, fins otherwise whitish. Iris whitish. Length 135 mm. 



This little-known fish differs from T. carolinus (Linn£), when exam- 

 ples of the same size are compared, in the larger eye, more pointed 

 dorsal, anal and caudal lobes, blackish tip of dorsal lobe and dusky 

 edges to caudal lobes. 



Pomadasis ramosus (Poey). 



Two, 150 and 180 mm. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 399 



Eucinostomus harengulus Goode and Bean. 



Two, 110 mm. 



Gerres olisthostomus Goode and Bean. 



Three, 96 to 188 mm. 



Larimus breviceps Cuvier. 

 Two, 128 and 130 mm. 



Polydactylus virginicus (Linne). 



Two, 190 and 205 mm. 



Cichlasoma maculicauda Regan. 



Two, 105 and 152 mm. 



Hyla punctariola Peters. 



Head long as broad. Snout triangular, little longer than eye. 

 Canthus rostralis distinct. Loreal region level, oblique. Tongue 

 ovoid, last third free, hind edge slightly emarginate. Vomerine 

 teeth in two small slightly oblique groups, well separated, and close 

 behind choanae. Interorbital little wider than upper eyelid. Tym- 

 panum obscure, apparently slightly less than half of eye. Skin 

 smooth above, also on throat. Belly and lower femoral region 

 granular. Fingers entirely free. Inner toes slightly webbed basally. 

 Disks about half of eye. Several metatarsal tubercles and one at 

 heel. Light buff-brown on back and upper surfaces of limbs, which 

 latter with obscure cross-blotches or spots. Supraorbital width 

 darker brown than rest of upper surface of head. Upper lip white- 

 edged. Lower surface of body creamy-white, under a lens seen to 

 be marked most everywhere with minute yellowish dots. Disks all 

 whitish. Length, from snout tip to vent, 27 mm. 



Eleutherodactylus polyptychus (Cope). 



Great variation in color is noticeable in the seven examples from 

 this locality. The largest brownish down middle of back, streaked 

 irregularly on tubercles with dusky. Head brown above, upper 

 lip with short dark streaks. Limbs brownish above, front pair 

 paler, and hind pair each with three or four dusky cross-bars on 

 femur, tibia, tarsus and metatarsus. Lower surface of body and 

 sides whitish, latter formed in contrast as brown streak continues 

 back from eye including tympanum and fades out on front side of 

 belly. Several of the larger examples show a ruddy tinge on the 

 femoral surface closing against the groin and inner surfaces of femur 

 and tibia. Smaller examples all present less striking color-pattern, 

 especially on sides, which only slightly paler. In all dark cross-bars 

 on hind limbs conspicuous. One small example shows narrow pale 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



vertebral line. Another has blackish streak from eye over shoulder 

 very pronounced. Largest example 23 mm., measured from snout 

 tip to vent, smallest 9. 

 Dendrobates tinctorum (Keferstein). 



Six examples, all uniform dark purplish-black in alcohol. Length 

 20 to 22 mm., measured from snout tip to vent. 



Eublepharis dovii Boulenger. 



Two examples, 80 to 127 mm. 



Anolis lunifrons Cope. 



Dewlap little developed, and sides of neck crimson. Nine exam- 

 ples, 80 to 127 mm. 

 Anolis insignis Cope. 



One, 220 mm. 

 Anolis capito Peters. 



Two, 80 to 202 mm. 



Anolis humilis Peters. 



Five, 38 to 65 mm. 



Ameiva festiva (Lichtenstem). 



One, 238 mm. 



Ameiva undulata quadrilineata (Hallowell). 



Two, 170 and 182 mm. long. These represent Ameiva gabbiana 

 Cope, merged in the synonymy of the present species by Dr. Bou- 

 lenger. They vary slightly. The single enlarged rounded preanal 

 plate is present. Scales in middle of throat but slightly enlarged, 

 and collar with an enlarged plate each side of median line. Humeral 

 scutes in one row. Great variation is also seen in the scutes on top 

 of the head. In one example the frontonasal is not in contact with 

 the posteronasal, as a small scale intervenes. Scales in the supra- 

 orbital semicircles and at occiput quite variable. Some blackish 

 dots on throat. 



THE CANAL ZONE. 



The collections from this section were obtained at Colon, Gatun, 

 Pedro Miguel, Empire and Panama, and are from both Atlantic 

 and Pacific drainages. 



Colon. 



Only marine fishes were obtained at this locality. A number of 

 smaller species were collected on the reef at Torro Point, in the 

 Caribbean, during July, in which case the locality is given. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ||)1 



Rhinobatos percellens (Walbaum). 



One, agreeing with an example from Trinidad. 

 Tarpon atlanticus (Valenciennee). 



Small one, 107 mm. long. 



Sardinella humeralis (Valenoiennea). 

 One, 100 mm. 



Opisthonema oglinum (Le Sueur). 



Three, 80 to 90 mm. long. Also three from Torro Point, 57 to 

 85 mm. long. All have median caudal rays dusky and row of dark 

 spots on side back from gill-opening. 



Anchovia gilberti Evermann and Marsh. 



One example, 118 mm. 

 Hyporhamphus unifasciatus (Ranzani). 



Two, 156 and 166 mm. Lower caudal lobe slightly longer than 

 upper. 



Sphyraena barracuda (Walbaum). 



One, 130 mm. long, from Torro Point. 



Sphyraena guachancho Cuvier. 



One example, 168 mm. 



Mugil curema Valenciennes. 



One small example from Torro Point. 



Holocentrus adscensionis (Osbeck). 



One, 153 mm. long. 

 Holocentrus siccifer Cope. 



One from Torro Point differs from the type, as figured by me, in 

 the black markings on the first two membranes of the spinous dorsal 

 entirely of that color, except the narrowly whitish base. All other 

 membranes of spinous dorsal dusky to blackish, especially basally. 

 Length 52 mm. 



Scomberomorus cavalla (Cuvier). 



Four, largest 148 mm. in length. 



Caranx hippos (Linne). 



Two examples, 150 and 165 mm. 



Caranx crysos (Mitchill). 

 One, 132 mm. long. 



Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). 



Two, 123 and 183 mm. 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Chloroscombrus ohrysurus (Linn6). 



One, 140 mm. long. 

 Seserinus paru (Linn6). 



One, 138 mm. 



Centropomus undecimalis (Bloch). 

 One, 254 mm. 



Rypticus arenatus Cuvier. 



One, 130 mm. 



Lutianus apodus (Walbaum). 



One, 126 mm. long. Also two from Torro Point, 42 and 43 mm. 



Rhomboplites aurorubens (Cuvier). 



One, 160 mm. 



Haemulon parra (Desmarest). 



One, 145 mm. 



Haemulon plumieri (Lac6pede). 



Two, 133 and 142 mm. 



Haemulon flavolineatum (Desmarest). 



One, 140 mm. 



Brachygenys chrysargyreus (Gunther). 

 Two, 143 and 152 mm. 



Pomadasis ramosus (Poey). 

 One, 128 mm. 



Orthopristis scapularis Fowler. 



One, 170 mm. long. 

 Archosargus unimaculatus (Bloch). 



One, 120 mm. 



Isopisthus harroweri sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3£; depth 4§; D. VIII-I, n, 16, i; A. II, i, 18; P. in, 16; 

 V. I, 5; scales 105 in series just above lateral line to caudal base; 

 16 scales above lateral line to soft dorsal origin; 16 scales below 

 lateral line to anal origin; about 48 scales before spinous dorsal 

 origin; about 60 pores in lateral line to caudal base, and about 40 

 more pores over caudal fin; head width 2f in its length; head depth 

 at occiput If; third dorsal spine 2|; first branched dorsal ray 2\\ 

 first branched anal ray 2\ ; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal 

 If; pectoral If; ventral If; snout 4 in head, measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 4f ; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3|. 



Body elongate, slender, well compressed, edges mostly convex 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



103 



and rather long occipital keel from occipital process slightly tren- 

 chant. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth If its length. 



Head well compressed, upper profile concave over eye, otherwise 

 convex, and lower profile steeply inclined convexly. Flattened 

 sides of head approximated below. Snout convex, so that tip of 

 upper jaw level with upper eye edge, length f its width. Eye large, 

 rather high, little longer than deep, well anterior. Mouth large, 

 greatly inclined, and lower jaw strongly protruding. Maxillary 

 extends hack opposite middle of eye. Teeth large, conic, and 

 depressible in outer series in upper jaw, which also with one enlarged 

 fang-like Canine in front, and all along inner edges band of fine teeth. 

 Lower teeth erect, firm, conic, several enlarged along sides of jaw-, 

 though between them also single row of small simple teeth. Tongue 



I so pistli us harroweri Fowler. 



long, smooth, free, rounded in front. Mandible convex over surface, 

 capable of great dilation. Nostrils together, close before and slightly 

 above upper edge of eye. Interorbital convex. Suprascapula jagged 

 and hind edge notched. Opercle with large angular membranous 

 flap behind. Hind preopercular edge with membranous edge, 

 notched finely. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front nostril. Rakers 

 iv, 1+8, iv, lanceolate, 2 in eye. Filaments about long as rakers. 

 Isthmus narrowly and deeply trenchant. 



Scales small, cycloid, more or less irregularly disposed, and very 

 loosely adherent. Head scaly, about 6 rows on cheek. On trunk 

 scales smaller and with more crowded appearance on median dorsal 

 line, about bases of dorsals and caudal. Rather large scales forming 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



sheath along anal base. Soft dorsal and anal mostly covered with 

 inconspicuous small scales. Lateral line complete, nearly concurrent 

 with dorsal profile. Tubes double on each scale, rather large. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer origin of soft dorsal than 

 hind eye edge, third spine longest, second and fourth subequal, and 

 depressed fin extends § to soft dorsal. Latter inserted midway 

 between hind preopercle edge and caudal base, first branched ray 

 highest, and fin extends f to caudal base. Anal inserted close behind 

 soft dorsal origin, little larger, similar. Caudal double truncate, 

 median rays longest and form point. Pectoral long, pointed upper 

 median rays longest, reach § to anal. Ventral inserted little behind 

 pectoral origin, and fin half way to anal origin. 



Color in alcohol brownish-olive above, sides and lower surface 

 silvery-white. Head olivaceous above, whitish below. Large dusky 

 nebulous blotch on opercle. Dorsals and caudal dull olive, pectoral 

 paler. Ventrals yellowish, tinged with orange basally. Anal pale 

 yellowish, lower edge narrowly dusky. 



Length 174 mm. 



Type, No. 45,236, A. N. S. P. Colon, Canal Zone. D. E. Harrower. 



Related to Isopisthus parvipinnis (Valenciennes), which would 

 differ in having more dorsal rays (21 instead of 16) and fewer anal 

 rays (16 or 17 instead of 18), fewer pores in the lateral line (52 to 54 

 instead of 60), and in having an indistinct elongate dark blotch from 

 behind the eye to the middle of the opercle. 



(Named for Mr. D. E. Harrower, who collected the type.) 



Cynoscion jamaicensis (Vaillant and Bocourt). 



One, 145 mm. 



Larimus breviceps Cuvier. 



Two examples, 114 and 158 mm. 



Conodon nobilis (LinD§). 

 One, 140 mm. 



Umbrina coroides Valenciennes. 



Two, 164 and 182 mm. 



Eucinostomus barengulus Goode and Bean. 



Two, 65 and 117 mm. 



Gerres rhombeus Cuvier. 

 One, 115 mm. 



Polydactylus virginicus (Linn*) 

 One, 196 mm. 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF l'HILADEUMIIA. 405 



Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch). 



Three from the reef at Torro Point, 34 to 40 mm. 



Eupomaoentrus fuscus (Valenciennes). 



Ten from the Torro Point reef. Three which are young have a 

 black ocellus at the base of soft dorsal in front, a black saddle-like 

 blotch on the upper surface of the caudal peduncle, and a black 

 axillary pectoral blotch. Length 31 to 95 mm. 

 Iridio bivittatus (Bloch). 



Young example from the reef at Torro Point, 26 mm. in length. 



Pomacanthus arcuatus (Linne). 



One example, 114 mm. long. The transverse bands are bright 

 lemon-yellow. 



Holacanthus tricolor (Bloch). 



One, 145 mm. long. 



Hepatus caeruleus (Schneider). 



One, 100 mm. long. 



Hepatus hepatus (Linne). 



Two, 112 and 115 mm. long. 



Hepatus bahianus (Oastelnau). 



One, 145 mm. long. Hind caudal edge narrowly whitish. 



Spheroides testudineus (Linne). 

 One, 132 mm. long. 



Philypnus dormitor (Lacepede). 



One, 125 mm. long from the reef at Torro Point. 



Dormitator maculatus (Bloch). 



One, 78 mm. long. 



Mapo soporator (Valenciennes). 



Seven examples from the reef at Torro Point, 36 to 67 mm. long. 



Rupiscartes atlanticus (Valenciennes). 



One from the Torro Point reef, 70 mm. long. 



Ogilbia cayorum Evermann and Kendall. 



One from Torro Point reef, 72 mm. long. 



Cithariohthys arenaceus Evermann and Marsh. 



One, 133 mm. long. 



Gatun. 



A small collection of fresh-water fishes, amphibians and lizards 

 from this locality. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF |June r 



Brycon striatulus (Kner). 



Four examples, 65 to 83 mm. 



Astyanax aeneus (Giinther). 



Two, 98 to 103 mm. 



Mollienisia sphenops (Valenciennes). 



A large series of all ages (33 examples), 29 to 52 mm. 



Acara coeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner. 



Fourteen, 47 to 82 mm. 



Cichlasoma maculicauda Regan. 



Nine examples, all small, about 53 mm. Also large one, 258 mm, 

 long. 



Bufo marinus (Linne). 



Two, 43 to 52 mm., from snout tip to vent. 



Bufo typhonius (Linne). 



One, with dark broad vertebral band, 32 mm. from snout tip to 

 vent. 

 Eleutherodactylus nubilus (Giinther). 



Two examples, 13 to 28 mm. from snout tip to vent. 



Anolis trochilus Cope. 



Four examples, 111 to 125 mm. in total length. 



Corythophanes cristatus (Merrem). 



One, 240 mm. 



Enyalioides heterolepis (Bocourt). 



One found around rocks near a stream. Length 212 mm. 



Ameiva ruthveni Barbour and Noble. 



This is represented by one example, 283 mm. long. It differs in 

 several respects from the original account. As there is a group of 

 five anterior supraoculars, with the second largest, the frontal is in 

 contact with the second, third, fourth, and very slightly the fifth, 

 supraoculars. No intercalated pair of scales between outer pair 

 of large occipitals and frontoparietals. The two posterior supra- 

 oculars are separated from the superciliaries by narrow wedges of 

 granules, in three or four rows behind. About ten large scales in 

 middle of chin, posteriorly one enlarged twice size of any others. 

 From frontal, down middle of back and tail anteriorly, narrow pale 

 streak. Length 283 mm. 



Apparently very closely related to Ameiva j 'estiva, of which I have 

 compared examples from Colombia and Nicaragua, which agree with 

 my Port Limon example. 




191f>.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 107 



Pedro Miguel. 



Rhamdia montaguensis ((.anther). 

 One example, 145 mm. 



Piabucina panamensis c sill. 



Three, 93 to 105 mm. Active and difficult to secure. 



Astyanax mexicanus (Filippi). 



Four examples, 67 to 72 mm. 



Poeciliopsis retropinna (Regan). 



One example, a female, 30 mm. long. 



Bufo marinus (Linne). 



One, 45 mm. long, measured from snout to vent, with three ticks 

 on its back. 



Bufo typhonius (I.inn6). 



Two small examples which agree with Ecuador material. Length 

 31 and 32 mm. from snout tip to vent. 



Leptodactylus caliginosus (Girard). 



Vomerine teeth in two closely approximated areas. Eye half 

 length of snout. Nostril near first third in snout length. Tym- 

 panum | of eye. Skin smooth, except hind femoral region posteri- 

 orly, which granular. Slight fold extends from shoulder to groin. 

 Color in alcohol gray-brown generally. Broad blackish triangle 

 between eyes. Black band from each side of snout back, including 

 eye and tympanum, to shoulder, and posteriorly continued as several 

 disconnected black spots. On each side of back, from above tym- 

 panum to groin above, black band. Middle of back with lengthwise 

 blackish blotches forming two distinct series on pelvic region. Groin 

 olive-yellow, with few dark cloudings. Fore limbs marbled with 

 dusky, forming a large blotch at and behind elbow. Hind limbs 

 mottled in more contrast with dusky, femoral and tibial region- 

 with several broad dark blotches as cross-bars. Tarsi and metatarsi 

 dusky, outer surfaces mottled or blotched with darker. Under 

 surface whiti-h, lips mottled with grayish. Length 86 and 91 nam., 

 measured from snout tip to vent. Locality given as Corozal. 



Iguana tuberculata Laurenti. 



Two young examples, 247 and 251 mm. 



Basiliscus basiliscus (Linne). 



A female, containing eggs. Length 107 mm. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Ameiva ameiva praesignis (Baird and Girard). 



Color in alcohol largely greenish-brown on back. Yellow line 

 each side of back extends from eye, and another similar, though 

 white line from lower edge of eye to groin, interspace jet-black with 

 row of obscure whitish spots. Black band also continued along 

 side of tail at first, fading out behind. Tail brownish above, mottled 

 with dusky. Below lower white lateral line, which most pronounced, 

 gray shade and clouded with dusky or blackish. Under surface of 

 head and trunk gray-white. Upper surface brown, sides whitish. 

 Limbs brownish above reticulated with black, forming two broad 

 black lengthwise lines on hind femoral region and upper continued 

 at first along tail basally short space, gradually fading behind. 

 One example, 255 mm. 



Leptodeira polysticta Gunther. 



One, differing a little from Gunther 's figure in not having a distinct 

 lengthwise dark bar dividing the neck, but with a lengthwise dark 

 brown saddle-like blotch, pale in the middle. Length 470 mm. 



Elaps fulvius (Linne). 



Two examples, 502 and 528 mm. 



Empire. 



Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis Cope. 



Two examples, 15 mm., measured from snout tip to vent. 



Anolis trochilus Cope. 



One example, 83 mm. long. 



Anolis lionotus Cope. 



Three, 70 to 158 mm. 



Nor ops auratus (Daudin). 



Three, 114 to 161 mm. 



Panama. 



The fishes of Panama Bay have been elaborately treated by 

 Profs. C. H. Gilbert and E. C. Starks in 1905, so that the list here 

 given is only supplementary. 



Tachisurus steindachneri Gilbert and Starks. 



Head 3| to 3|; depth 4f to 5§; D. I, 6 and I, 7; A. vi, 13 and 13; 

 snout 2f to 2| in head; eye 5| to 5|; mouth width 2f to 3; inter- 

 orbital 2|; dorsal spine If to 1§. Palatine teeth coarsely granular, 

 without a backward angle extending on inner edge. Granulations 

 or striae on head extend forward nearly opposite middle of eyes. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. -409 



Fontanel extends hack as narrow groove to occipital plate. Inner 

 surfaces of ventral black, front edge of fin white. Pectoral similarly 

 blackish inside. Upper caudal lobe little longer. Two examples, 

 200 and 210 mm. long. They differ slightly from the figure given 

 by Gilbert and Starks in the striae on top of the head extending more 

 distinctly forward. 



Muraena clepsydra Gilbert. 



One, 595 mm. long. 

 Pceciliopsis presidionis (Jordan and Culver). 



Male and female, 23 and 37 mm. 



Tylosurus scapularis Jordan and Gilbert. 



Caudal peduncle about wide as deep, and lateral line forms slight 

 though inconspicuous keel along each side. Eye 7 in upper jaw, 

 3 in postocular part of head. Upper jaw nearly an eye-diameter 

 longer than lower, and not completely closing against lower pos- 

 teriorly, so that distinct interval is seen between them. D. n, 14; 

 A. ii, 15. Upper surface of body greenish in alcohol, especially on 

 head. Sides and below silvery-white. Narrow lateral band of 

 leaden, tapering or narrowed at shoulder and caudal base, and more 

 or less expanded behind. Iris silvery-white. Fins all pale. Length 

 695 mm. 

 Holocentrus suborbitalis Gill. 



Three examples, 87 to 90 mm. 



Mugil CUrema Valenciennes. 



Fourteen small examples, largest 122 mm. 

 Caranx hippos (Unne). 



Two, 111 and 175 mm. 



Caranx caballus (Gunther). 



One, 160 mm. long. 



Vomer setapinnis (Mitchill). 



Two, 172 and 182 mm. 



Centropomus unionensis Bocourt. 

 One example, 135 mm. 



Alphestes multiguttatus (Gunther). 



Two, 147 and 172 mm. Pectoral with at least five distinct dark 

 vertical cross-bars. 



Diplectrum radiale (Quoy and Gaimard). 



One, 190 mm. Called "sand mullet." 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Rypticus nigripinnis Gill. 



Two small examples, 48 and 49 mm. 



Xenichthys xanti Gill. 



One, 162 mm. 

 Lythrulon flaviguttatum (Gill). 



Two, 140 and 148 mm. 



Anisotremus interruptus (Gill). 



Four young, 30 to 54 mm. 



Anisotremus taeniatus Gill. 



One example, 143 mm. long. 



Bairdiella ronchus (Valenciennes). 



Head 2|; depth 3|; D. X-I, n, 25; A. II, 8; scales 46 in lateral 

 line to caudal base; snout 3 f in head; eye 4f ; maxillary 2\; inter- 

 orbital 4. Snout convexly protruding in upper profile. Lower jaw 

 slightly projects. Lower teeth mostly uniserial, enlarged, conic. 

 Symphyseal knob distinct, surmounted by two canines. Eye little 

 shorter than snout. Preopercle denticles small, larger one below 

 directed forward. Second anal spine 2| in head. One example, 

 178 mm. long. 



Eucinostomus californiensis (Gill). 

 One, 83 mm. 



■Gerres peruviaiius Valenciennes. 



Three, 75 to 85 mm. 



TJpeneus grandisquamis Gill. 



Four examples, 117 to 164 mm. 



Acara caeruleopunctata Kner and Steindachner. 



One, 148 mm. 

 Abudefduf mauritii (Bloch). 



Series of all ages which appear to agree with the Atlantic form. 

 Length 38 to 102 mm. 



Abudefduf declivifrons (Gill). 



One example, 67 mm. 



Pseudoscarus perrico (Jordan and Gilbert). 



Called "parrot chub." Color in alcohol dusky-brown generally. 

 Blue-green spots radiate around eye. Jaws greenish. Vertical 

 fins livid dull dusky-purple, edges of dorsals and anals narrowly 

 blue-green. Dusky blotch at pectoral base, fin pale. Outer ventral 

 edge pale, rays brownish. Iris yellowish. Lengtih 206 mm. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



Hepatus crestonis .f<>rdan and Starks. 



Head 3f; depth If; D. IX, 25; A. Ill, 24; snout l l , in head; i 

 4; interorbital 2|; pectoral l^j. In alcohol largely uniform dark 

 chocolate-brown. Dorsals and anals blackish. Caudal slightly 

 paler basally. Pectoral with broad whitish submarginal shade. 



Length 103 nun. 



Chaetodon humeralis (Gunther). 



One example, 124 mm. Jordan and Evermann state "3 dark 

 hands across caudal peduncle at base of fin; caudal fin with a faint 

 band; ventrals dark." My example shows but a single dark trans- 

 verse bar on caudal peduncle at caudal base and caudal fin with two 

 very sharply contrasted blackish vertical bars slightly expanded me- 

 dianly, and anterior much wider than any of bars on caudal. The 

 ventrals are whitish with two very indistinct vertical gray bars. 



Pomacanthus zonipectus (Gill). 



Head 3|; depth If; D. XI, 25; A. Ill, 21; snout 3 in head; eye 

 S\ ; interorbital 3. Color faded in alcohol, vertical pale lines whitish. 

 Traces of similarly curved lines, parallel, some irregular in dark 

 .areas between whitish lines. Also dark areas with numerous small 

 obscure blackish spots. Length 125 mm. 



Chastodipterus zonatus (Girard). 

 One example, 148 mm. 



Balistes vetula Linn6. 



Two, 100 and 103 mm. long. 



Spheroides annulatus (Jenyns). 



Two, 49 and 94 mm. long. The dark spots are smaller and more 

 numerous than in Atlantic examples of S. testudineus of the same size. 



Diodon hystrix Linne. 



Two examples, 122 to 125 mm. 



Scorpaena mystes Jordan and Starts. 



Head 2|; depth 3^; D. XII, 10; A. Ill, 5; scales 39 to caudal 

 base and 2 more on latter, along lateral line; 7 scales above 1.1.; 

 15 scales in vertical series between 1.1. and spinous dorsal origin: 

 snout 3f in head; eye 5; maxillary 2\; interorbital 5 ; about 27 pores 

 in lateral line to caudal base. No supraorbital cirrus. Slight pit 

 below front eye edge and suborbital stay. Length 250 mm. 



-Mapo soporator (Valenciennes). 



Twenty-nine examples, 25 to 122 mm. 



28 ' 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Garmanina paradoxa (Gtinther). 



Head 3§; depth 4§; D. VII, i, 11, i; A. i, 9, i; scales 15 in median 

 series on hind part of trunk, begin opposite origin of soft dorsal; 

 8 scales transversely between last dorsal and anal rays; snout 4 J 

 in head; eye 5^; maxillary 2\\ interorbital about 11. Gill-rakers 

 1+8 short points with broad bases, much shorter than filaments. 

 Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, scarcely paler below. 

 About 13 pairs of deeper brownish transverse bars, from back down 

 along side, and each 2 pairs placed closer to one another, and in 

 places irregularly joined. Each bar seen to be forked as a darker 

 reticulation around a paler spot or centre, also reticulations of 

 various extent. Similar dark transverse bar extends down on cheek, 

 though narrower one immediately behind eye and another on top of 

 head before gill-opening, not extending down on side of head. Iris 

 with pale circle around pupil. Ventrals blackish, edge narrowly 

 whitish. Fins all grayish, clouded or obscurely marked with darker. 

 Length 42 mm. 

 Microgobius miraflorensis Gilbert and Starks. 



One 26 mm. long. Gilbert and Starks give A. 17, though their 

 figure shows i, 10. My example lacks the cirri about the jaws they 

 represent, and at present the dark spots on the fins are much more 

 contrasted. 

 Hypsoblennius striatus (Steindachner). 



Fourteen examples, 46 to 80 mm. 



Batrachoides pacifici (Giinther). 



Two adults, 178 and 222 mm. long. Young examples differ in 

 the absence of scales. 



Gobiesox microspilus sp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 2|; depth 5; D. 13; A. 9; P. 25; head width \\ its length; 

 snout 3|; eye 6; mouth width 2|; interorbital 2f; third dorsal ray 

 3; third anal ray 3|; least depth caudal peduncle 4^; caudal If; 

 pectoral 2\. 



Body moderately long, depressed forward, compressed behind, 

 convex above, flattened below, and slight median groove before 

 anal. Caudal peduncle compressed, short and little free. 



Head large, upper profile convex from snout tip to occiput, lower 

 nearly straight and horizontal. Snout wide, convex over surface, 

 length less than half its width as measured across front of eyes. 

 Eye ellipsoid, high, centre slightly behind first third in head length. 

 Eyelids not distinct, skin of head passing over. Mouth broad, 




1910.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



ii.; 



upper jaw slightly protruding. Lips broad, each fringed with 

 lather long free dermal Maps. Transverse groove of premaxillaries 

 distinct, on snout above. Teeth in one row in each jaw, simple, 

 conic, two front ones enlarged or canine-like above. Both jaws with 

 anterior teeth little enlarged, and in front of lower more so, com- 

 pressed or incisor-like, their tips rather broadly triangular. Inner 

 buccal folds broad. Tongue broad, fleshy, depressed, free around 

 edges. Nostrils rather close together, above level of eye near its 

 front edge, anterior in short fleshy tube and posterior simple pore. 

 Interorbital broad and slightly convex. Opercular spine not extend- 

 ing through integument, concealed. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite last § in head, Gill- 

 rakers about 6 short rudimentary points, much shorter than short 

 gill-filaments. 



Fig. 4. — Gobiexu.c mierosfnlus Fowler. 



Skin smooth. A number of pores along lower side of head, and 

 about fringes of lips. 



Dorsal inserted about midway between centre of head and caudal 

 base, tips of rays slightly protrude beyond connecting membranes. 

 Anal inserted slightly behind dorsal origin, fin similar. Cam hi I 

 rounded behind. Pectoral broad, upper rays longer, hind edge 

 rounded, with free fold in front opposite lower base, and broad flap 

 concealed, behind axilla, extends up from disk. Disk large, circular, 

 its length about \\ in head. Margins of disk, all for broad extent, 

 finely papillose. Vent before anal, though slightly behind origin 

 of dorsal. 



Color in alcohol dark chocolate-brown, except lower surface of 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



head and disk, which whitish. Entire upper surface marked with 

 closely set dusky spots, mostly of uniform size, and all with a more or 

 less lengthwise disposition. Black blotch on head about an eye- 

 diameter behind eye on its level. From eye dark spots are darkened, 

 to form obscure streak forward, one below and one behind. Vertical 

 fins largely dusky or blackish. Dorsal with sub-basal lengthwise 

 whitish streak, one medianly and protruded tips of rays same color. 

 Anal with median lengthwise paler area, protruded tips of rays 

 whitish. Caudal crossed by three obscure darker bands, tips of rays 

 whitish. Pectorals brownish. Iris slaty, olive-yellowish circle 

 around pupil. 



Length 37 mm. 



Type, No. 45,213, A. N. S. P. Panama, in a pool. May 30, 

 1915. D. E. Harrower. Purchased. 



Only the above example obtained. This species is very closely 

 allied with G. papillifer Gilbert from Lower California. It differs 

 in several respects. G. papillifer has the teeth in both jaws biserial. 

 Its color is also said to be uniform dark olivaceous, and the color of 

 the fins is different. 



(Mtxpos, small; <nrWop, spot; with reference to the coloration.) 



Bufo marinus (Linne). 



Two large examples, 96 to 100 mm. long, measured from snout 

 tip to vent. 



Bufo valliceps Wiegmann. 



Four, 26 to 40 mm. 

 Bufo typhonius (Linne). 

 One, 21 mm. 



Hyla moquardi Giinther. 



Two, about 20 mm. 



Eleutherodactylus rhodopsis (Cope). 



One, 14 mm. 



Dendrobates tinctorum (Keferatein). 



Four examples, caught in shrubbery. Length 25 to 32 mm. 



Pelamis bicolor (Schneider). 



One found swimming on the surface. It was hit with an oar and 

 then captured by a boatman. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



NOTES ON FISHES OF THE ORDERS HAPLOMI AND MICROCYPRINI. 



BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



The present paper is an annotated list of the fishes of the above 

 orders, contained in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. 



HAPLOMI. 



ESOCID^J. 

 Esox americanus (Gmelin). 



New York (Long Island); New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; 

 Maryland; North Carolina (Catawba River); South Carolina 

 (Pocataligo River near Manning); Georgia (Thomasville) ; Florida 

 (Volusia) . 



Esox vermiculatus Valenciennes. 



E. cypho Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 78. Waterford, Oak- 

 land County, Michigan. 



E. porosus Cope, Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., (2) XIII, 1866, p. M)8 

 (on above, cypho regarded inept). 



No. 7,681, A. N. S. P., type of E. cypho Cope. Waterford, 

 Michigan. 



Ohio (Hicksville) ; Indiana (Richmond and Michigan City); 

 Georgia (Etowah River); Texas (Beaumont). 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur. 



New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; Maryland; District of 

 Columbia (Washington) ; North Carolina (Neuse River) ; Florida. 



Esox lucius Linne. 



New York (Lake George); Indiana (Wabash River); Lake Erie; 

 Michigan (Kewenah Point); Iowa (Hornick and Brook River); 

 Sweden; Italy. 



Esox masquinongy Mitchill. 



Pennsylvania (Lake Conneaut); Michigan (Saginaw Bay); Minne- 

 sota (Mankato); Ontario (Sparrow Lake). 



UMBRIDiE. 

 Umbra limi (Kirtland). 



Pennsylvania (Meadeville) ; Illinois (Northfield); Michigan (Oak- 

 land County); Minnesota (Cedar Lake, Minneapolis). 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Umbra pygmaea (De Kay) 



New Jersey; Pennsylvania; Delaware; Maryland; Virginia (Lower 

 James River). 



MICROOYPRINI. 



PCEOILIID^l. 



As pointed out by Regan, this family embraces several well-defined 

 sub-families. To these several others are likely valid, as the Pro- 

 catopince (Procatopus) , with the ventrals placed below the pectorals, 

 and the Lamprichthyinw (Lamprichthys) , with ctenoid scales and 

 long anal fin (27 to 30 rays), both off -shoots from the Fundulince. 

 The Phallostethince (Phallostethus) diverge from the PoeciliinoB, 

 with the ventrals modified as an intromittent organ. 



FUNDULINjE. 



FUNDULUS LaeSpede. 



GALASACCUS subgen. nov. 



Type Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard. 



Form rather elongate. Snout usually long and conspicuous. 

 Jaws wide, sometimes produced. Sexes usually unlike in coloration, 

 and female often with dark lengthwise lines. Females also without 

 an anal tube on front of anal fin, but in its place basal sheath usually 

 present. No nuptial tubercles or denticles on anal rays of male 

 during spawning season. 



Hydrargira Lacepede cannot be used for this group, as its monotype, 

 H. swampina Lacepede, is a synonym of Cobitis heteroclita Linne 

 and thus a synonym of Fundulus. 



(rdXa, milk; <x«*x<>?, sack; from the vernacular Sac-a-Lait of the 

 typical species.) 



Fundulus similis (Baird and Girard). 



Hydrargira similis Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, 

 p. 389. Indianola, Texas. 



Nos. 6,987 and 6,988, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of H. similis Baird and 

 Girard. Indianola, Texas. From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Both small examples. 



Miami River (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Boca Chica Key (Fowler) and 

 Carrabelle (M. Hebard), Florida. 



Fundulus majalis (Walbaum). 



Besides the large series of local or Middle Atlantic States specimens, 

 already recorded, are others from: Florida (Bayport); South Caro- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



lina (Charleston and Hilton Head); Massachusetts (Woods Hole, 

 Nantucket and Salem). 

 Fundulus punctatus Gunther. 



Central Guatemala (Cope). 



Subgenus FUNDULUS Lac6pdde. 

 Type Fundulus mudfish Lac£pede. 



Form short, robust. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration, females usually paler or uniform. 

 Female with anal tube on first anal ray. Anal rays of male usually 

 with nuptial denticles during the spawning season. 



Fundulus parvipinnis Girard. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, p. 154. San Diego, California. 



No. 7,255, A. N. S. P. Cotype. From the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion (No. 938). 



Fundulus heteroclitus (Linne). 



Fort Macon, North Carolina (Dr. H. C. Yarrow) and Charleston, 

 South Caolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook). 



Fundulus heteroclitus macrolepidotus (Walbaum). 



Besides a very large series from various of the Middle Atlantic 

 States, most of which have been listed, are examples from New 

 York (Hudson River at Piermont, Long Beach, South Long Beach, 

 Nassau on Long Beach and New York Harbor); Connecticut 

 (Sachems Head and Scotts Cove near Darien); Rhode Island (New- 

 port); Massachusetts (Woods Hole, Nantucket and Boston). 

 Fundulus heteroclitus badius Carman. 



Prince Edward Island and Magdalen Islands, Canada. 1 



Fundulus grandis Baird and Girard. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, p. 389. Indianola, Texas. 

 No. 7,420, A. N. S. P. Cotype. J. H. Clark. From the Smith- 

 sonian Institution (No. 650). 



Bayport (Cope) and Carrabelle (M. Hebard), Florida. 



Fundulus nisorius Cope. 



Proc. Ainer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, p. 456. Gaboon, West Africa. 



Head 3 to 3|; depth 31 to 4; D. usually i, 11, often i, 10, rarely 

 i, 12; A. usually i, 10, often i, 9, rarely i, 8 or i, 11 ; scales usually 32, 

 often 33, sometimes 31, 34 or 35 in lateral series medianly to caudal 

 base, and usually 4, rarely 3 or 5 more on latter; snout 3| to 4 in 



1 Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 15)15, p. 518. 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



head, measured from snout tip; eye 2f to 4J; maxillary 2f to 3^; 

 interorbital 2 to 2f. Body rather robust, compressed, more so in 

 male. Head short, obtuse. Snout depressed, length f to § its 

 width. Eye close to upper profile, centre near first third in head. 

 Mouth moderate, lower jaw obtuse, projects. Teeth conic, fine, in 

 bands in jaws, outer row enlarged. Interorbital flat. Gill-rakers 

 2 or 3 + 9, lanceolate, about half length of filaments. Scales largest 

 on top of head, smaller on breast, belly and caudal base. Lateral 

 line complete, inconspicuous, as single small pore on middle of 

 exposure of each scale medianly along side. Dorsal origin little 

 nearer caudal base than gill-opening in adult female, much nearer 

 latter in young and adult male. Anal origin about opposite second 

 branched dorsal ray base, fin much higher than dorsal. Female 

 without anal sheath, though with long simple tube, long as first ray. 

 Caudal truncate, rounded convexly behind Avhen spread open. 

 Pectoral not quite reaching ventral, latter not to anal. Paired fins 

 still shorter in adult female. Color in alcohol, of male, brownish 

 generally, little paler below. Sides with about fourteen to seventeen 

 narrow vertical bars, less than half width of exposed scales. Also in 

 course of each bar scattered pearly or whitish rounded spots, smaller 

 and more crowded about caudal base. Vertical fins dusky, with 

 irregular and variable whitish spots, smaller on caudal, and edges 

 of all these fins broadly whitish. Female uniform brownish, paler 

 on under surfaces, and without dusky or dark pectorals and ventrals 

 of male. Male with terminal portions of anal rays covered with 

 little points or denticles, row to each shaft. These absent in female, 

 though in some females a few little points or granules on rays of 

 dorsal fin on their outer portions. Length 33 to 91 mm. Nos. 

 7,227 to 7,233 and 7,293 to 7,303, A. N. S. P. Cotypes of F. nisorius 

 Cope. Gaboon, West Africa. P. B. Duchaillu. 



This very interesting species, incompletely described by Cope, 

 is the exact African counterpart of F. heteroclitus. It resembles the 

 latter in almost all respects, and differs in but few minor characters, 

 as shorter pectorals, etc. 



Fundulus antillarum sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 3^; depth 3f; D. i, 11; A. i, 9; P. 16; V. i, 5; scales about 

 34 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 

 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 23 

 predorsal scales; head depth at occiput If its length; head width 

 If; fifth branched dorsal ray If; fifth branched anal ray If; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal 1 T V; pectoral 1^; ventral 2\; 




1916.] 



XATIHAL S( [EN< BS OI PHILADELPHIA'. 



I lit 



snout 3| in head, measured from upper jaw tip; eye 1!: maxillary 

 3; interorbital 2, 1 , . 



Body moderately long, also moderately depressed anteriorly, well 

 compressed behind, back scarcely elevated. Caudal peduncle 

 robust, well compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderately short, wide above, upper profile uearly straight 

 from snout tip to oeciput and less inclined than lower. Sid.- of 

 head moderately approximated below. Snout short, depressed, 

 length about § its width. Eye rounded, high or close to upper 

 profile and its centre near first f in length of head. Mouth rather 

 small, lateral cleft -light, oblique. Premaxillaries well protractile. 

 Maxillary extends down till close before front edge of eye. Lips 

 moderately fleshy. Teeth all simple, conic, in bands in jaws, and 



1 iu. 1. — Fundulus anlillarum Fowler. 



outer row enlarged and slightly curved. Upper and lower inner 

 buccal folds moderately wide, entire. Tongue fleshy, depressed, 

 elongate, end rounded and free in front. Lower jaw robust, pro- 

 trudes beyond upper, convex over surface and in profile. Nostrils 

 superior in front of interorbital space and front edge of eye. Inter- 

 orbital space depressed or flattened, and slight median transver-c 

 depression over front of eyes. Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined 

 forward. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind edge of eye. 

 Gill-rakers 2+9, lanceolate, about half length of gill-filaments 

 which slightly less than horizontal diameter of eye. Isthmus wide. 

 Branchiostegals 4. 



Scales moderate with concentric striae, larger on front predorsal 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J UD.e, 



region and top of head, and smaller on breast, prepectoral region and 

 caudal base. Cheek with 3 rows of scales. Lateral line complete, 

 inconspicuous, developed as single small pore on each exposure of 

 scale. 



Dorsal origin slightly nearer gill-opening than caudal base, branched 

 rays about uniformly high, and extend § space to caudal base. Anal 

 inserted about opposite base of second or third dorsal ray, and 

 median posterior rays longest, longer than dorsal rays, and reach 

 f to caudal base. Caudal apparently truncate behind, rounded as 

 spread open. Pectoral low, rather small, reaches about f to ventral. 

 Latter inserted nearly midway between front of eye and caudal 

 base, fin reaching vent, close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely dull brownish with faint olivaceous tinge, 

 especially above. Each scale with a rounded paler basal spot. 

 These spots at intervals of several scales each with pearly tint or 

 whitish, so that traces of about a dozen vertical whitish streaks 

 occur. Fins brownish, dorsal and caudal little darker. Dorsal 

 with several large cream-colored blotches about basal portion of fin, 

 and caudal with three irregular and obscure vertical darker cross-bars. 

 Iris pale yellowish. 



Length 78 mm. 



Type, No. 7,225, A. N. S. P. St. Martins, Danish West Indies. 

 Dr. R. E. Van Rijgersma. 



Also No. 7,226, A. N. S. P. Paratype, same data. Head 3f; 

 depth 4; D. i, 10; A. i, 9; scales about 31 to caudal base and 5 more 

 on latter; 13 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; 

 about 25 predorsal scales; snout 3| in head measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 3|; maxillary 3; interorbital 2|. Length 76 mm. 

 This example a female, and its coloration largely like the type. 

 Dorsal and caudal fins differ only in being uniform brownish. Anal 

 with a well-developed tube along its front edge but little shorter 

 than first anal ray. 



This species is very closely related to F. heteroclitus. Compared 

 with examples of equal size, but slight, though apparently constant, 

 points of difference are noted. The males of both species are quite 

 similar, though in F. heteroclitus the white spots on the dorsal are 

 much smaller. As the female of F. heteroclitus is uniform brownish 

 the female of F. antillarum differs in having the base of each scale 

 with a whitish spot. In proportions, measurements, etc., the two 

 species are similar. A large series of F. heteroclitus easily covers the 

 structural characters. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. }_M 



1 first thought this species was F.fonticoh Valenciennes. 2 It is 

 described with twelve anal rays, apparently deeper body, and possibly 

 smaller rounded dorsal and caudal. Valenciennes says: ' La couleur 

 parait avoir etc un vert uniforme sur tout le corps, et je ne voia 

 aucune tache sur les nageoires." He also gives the following remark, 

 which may in part refer to F. antillarum: "Une note, ajoutie a la 

 fin de cet article, fait penser que M. Plee croyait aussi qui ce poisson 

 habite la Martinique, car il dit: 'ce sont les poissons qu'on appelle 

 dormeurs dans nos isle-." Les a-t-il confondus avec de jeunes 

 Eleotris, qui sont ainsi denommes? " This is interesting as showing 

 the possible occurrence of Fundulus in the Lesser Antilles, now fully 

 corroborated by the present species. Another species, likely closely 

 related is F. bermudce Gunther. 3 It appears to differ in the smaller 

 head, dorsal rays fourteen and anal rays twelve. Later this was 

 redescribed as F. rhizophorcc Goode, 4 with its color given as light 

 tawny-brown, with about fifteen regular transverse bands of greenish- 

 brown, each two scales in width and most distinct on trunk posteri- 

 orly. No mention is made of the color of the fins. The only 

 remaining West Indian species is F. cubensis Eigenmann, 6 which 

 differs entirely in its large scales (24), advanced dorsal and anal 

 and coloration. 



(Named for the Lesser Antilles.) 



Fundulus hispanicus (Valenciennes). 



One from Spain in poor state of preservation. Possibly it differs 

 largely in the more posterior position of the dorsal and anal fins, 

 which are exactly opposite, from the American species. It approaches 

 Zygonectes in the large scales (29 to 32) and small dorsal (9 to 11). 



Subgenus FONTINUS Jordan and Evermann. 



Type Fundulus seminolis Girard. 



Form long, slender. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season, otherwise 

 of similar barred appearance. Females with anal sheath, but no 

 anal tube extending beyond. Males brilliant, sometimes with 

 denticles or tubercles on body and fins during the spawning season. 



Fundulus diaphanus (Le Sueur). 



A very large series from the Middle Atlantic States, already 



2 Hid. Nat Poiss., XVIII, 1846, p. (198) 148. Porto Rico. 



Ann. Man. Nat. Hist. London (4), XIV, 1874, p. 370. Bermudas. 

 * Amer. Jour. Sc. Art. C-Si. XIV. 1877, p. 298. Balden Pond, Bermuda. 

 5 Bull. C S. F. Com.. 1902 (1904), p. 222, fig. 1. Rio del Pillar, Cuba. 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie r 



recorded, besides examples from Massachusetts (Cambridge) ; Rhode 

 Island (Newport); New York (Sing Sing). 



Fundulus diaphanus menona (Jordan and Copeland). 



Indiana; Chicago, Illinois; Grosse Isle, Michigan. 



Fundulus zebrinus Jordan and Gilbert. 



Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 17, 1882, p. 891 (based on Hydrargyra zebra 

 Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 60. Tributary of the Rio 

 Grande between Fort Defiance and Fort Union, New Mexico. Not of 

 De Kay 1842.) 



No. 7,352, A. N. S. P., cotype of H. zebra Girard. Coll. Mollhausen. 

 Smithsonian Institution (No. 2,590). 



Also a fine series from Indiana (Wabash River) ; Iowa (Silver 

 Lake); Texas (Red River in Staked Plain from Brazos River to 

 Texas Tuli Canyon, south of Clarendon, between Seymour and 

 Austin, and Comanche Creek at Fort Macon). 



Fundulus seminolis Girard. 



Lake Kerr, Florida. 



Subgenus XENISMA Jordan. 

 Type Xenisma stellifera Jordan. 



Form long, very slender. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not 

 produced. Sexes unlike in coloration during spawning season, 

 otherwise of similar finely spotted appearance. Females with anal 

 sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond. Males brilliant, and 

 anal prickly in spawning season. 

 Fundulus catenatus (Storer). 



Virginia (Holston River), Arkansas (Eureka Springs), and Tennes- 

 see (Coal Creek in Clinch River basin) . 

 Fundulus stellifer (Jordan). 



Xenisma stellifer Jordan, Ann. Lye. N. Hist. N. Y., 1870, p. 322. Etowah 

 and Oostanaula Rivers, Rome, Georgia. 



Nos. 20,718 to 20,720, A. N. S. P., paratypes of X. stellifer Jordan. 

 Rome, Georgia. D. S. Jordan. From E. D. Cope. 



Subgenus ZYGONECTES Agassiz. 

 Type Poecilia olivacea Storer. 



Form elongate, fusiform. Snout short or moderate. Jaws not pro- 

 duced. Sexes unlike in coloration, at least during spawning season. 

 Females with anal sheath, but no anal tube extending beyond. 

 Males brilliant, and anal sometimes prickly in spawning season. 

 Dorsal and anal fins small, former distinctly inserted behind origin 

 of latter. 




1016.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Fundulus floripinnis Cope) 



Haplochilus floripinnis Cope. Zool. Wheeler's Surv. Terr., Is?.". (187 

 p. 695, PL 28, figs. I a-b. Colorado and Platte Rivers al Denver, Colorado! 



Nos. 18,733 to 18,738, A. N. S. P., cotypes of //. floripinnis ( !ope. 



Fundulus pulvereus Evermann. 



Baldwin Lodge, Mississippi. 

 Fundulus sciadicus Copi 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, p. 78. Platte River, Nebraska. 



Nos. 7,183 to 7,201, A. N. S. P. Cotypes. Dr. W. A. Hammond. 



Fundulus luciae (Baird). 



A large -cries of examples from the Middle Atlantic Stales. All 

 but the examples obtained at Anglesea, New Jersey, on October 3, 

 1897, by Messrs. \V. J. Fox and P. Laurent, have been recorded. 



Fundulus chrysotus (Gunthcr). 



Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek of the St. John's River basin 

 (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. Johnson) and the everglades at Miami 

 River in Dade County (S. N. Rhoads), Florida. Also an example 

 from Beaumont, Texas. 



Fundulus balboae sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3f; depth 4f ; D. n, 8; A. i, 12; P. i, 12; V. i, 5; scales 

 34 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 5 more on latter; 

 10 scales between dorsal and anal origins; about 30 predorsal scale-: 

 head width If its length; head depth at occiput If; snoul 3; eye 

 3f ; maxillary 4f; interorbital 2|; sixth branched dorsal ray If; 

 tenth branched anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; 

 caudal 1 T V; pectoral If; ventral If. 



Body elongate, moderately depressed above in front, compressed 

 behind. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth little less than 

 its length. 



Head depressed above, less so below, and profiles nearly straight, 

 though lower little more inclined. Snout broad, depressed, length 

 | its width. Eye large, rounded, slightly before middle in length 

 of head, close to upper profile, and extends more on under surface 

 of head than on upper surface. Mouth terminal, gape not quite 

 half way to eye. Premaxillaries protractile. Maxillary reaches 

 back opposite hind nostril. Jaws robust, protruding, and lower 

 projecting slightly beyond upper. Bands of fine teeth in jaws, and 

 an outer rather wide-set row of slightly enlarged simple conic teeth. 

 Lower jaw rather shallow, rami not elevated inside mouth. Lip- 

 rather fleshy. Tongue fleshy, free in front and about edges, well 




424 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



back in mouth. Upper buccal fold moderately broad, lower nar- 

 rower. Nostrils lateral on snout above, near front of eye. Inter- 

 orbital slightly convex. Hind preopercle edge slightly inclined 

 backwards. 



Gill-opening' extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge. 

 Gill-rakers about 1 + 7 short robust points, much shorter than gill- 

 filaments, latter about If in eye. Isthmus narrow. 



Scales cycloid, with many concentric striae, little smaller on breast 

 and belly, more so on caudal base. Scales larger on head above 

 and front predorsal region. Lateral line imperfect and incomplete, 

 at row of pores, one to each scale in middle of its exposure, to 

 ventral, behind latter dropping a row of scales and then extending 

 to caudal base. 



Dorsal origin about last third in space between centre of eye and 

 caudal base, sixth branched ray highest, and depressed fin extending 



Fig. 2. — Fundulus balhoce Fowler. 



back to caudal base. Front § of anal base before dorsal or origin 

 of fin little nearer gill-opening than caudal base, fin like dorsal, only 

 falling slightly shorter of caudal base. Caudal oblong, hind edge 

 apparently slightly convex. Pectoral small, reaches f to ventral, 

 latter reaching anal. 



Color in alcohol dark olive-brownish generally, with apparently 

 more or less uniform ground-color. A dark or dusky longitudinal 

 band from mouth to eye, behind latter to gill-opening and continued 

 to caudal base. After gill-opening this band extends below median 

 axis, of trunk, and its width slightly less than vertical eye-diameter. 

 Iris warm brownish. Fins uniform pale brownish, except dorsal 

 and upper part of caudal, which marked with a few rather wide-set 

 dark brownish spots. 



Length 62 mm. 




191(3.] NATURAL SCIENCES 0] PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Type, No. 16,728, A. X. S. I'. Panama. Lieutenant Fields. 



Only the above example known. It is apparently not closely 

 related to any of the known species of the subgenus. 



(Named for Balboa, Panama.) 

 Fundulus nottii Agassis. 



Indiana; North Carolina (Wilmington); Georgia (Thomasvil 

 Florida (Leon County and Walaka). 



Fundulus notatus (Rafinesque). 



F. minus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sri. l'liila., L865, p. 7*. Detroil River, 

 Grosse Isle, Michigan. 



No. 7,142, A. N. S. P., type of F. aureus Cope. 

 Illinois (Illinois River basin at Marley); Missouri; Arkansas; 

 Indian Territory; Texas (Fort Worth). 



CHRIOPEOPS subgen. nov. 

 Type Lucania goodei .Ionian. 



Form fusiform, elongate. Teeth in jaws in two series, simple, 

 conic, outer row enlarged. Jaws short, obtuse. Dorsal fin inserted 

 slightly before anal origin. Female with an anal sheath. 



Differs from the other subgenera of Fundulus in the dentition, as 

 all have the inner teeth in a fine villiform band, at least in more than 

 one row. It resembles certain species of Zygonectes in the black lateral 

 band, but the anterior position of the dorsal at once distinguishes 

 it. Small fishes, little over an inch in length. 



(Chriope, an old name for Notropis bifrenatus, and "<«</', appearance, 

 to which the type species bears a close superficial resemblance.) 



Fundulus goodei (Jordan). 



Miami and everglades at Miami River (S. N. Rhoads), and Tick 

 Island in Spring Garden Creek of St. John's River basin (Dr. H. A. 

 Pilsbry), Florida. 



( iXVZYGOXECTES subgen. nov. 



Type Haplochilus dovii Gunther. 



Jaws long and spatulate. Gill-rakers rather numerous, 22 to 24, 

 much more so than in many of the subgenera. Dorsal fin inserted 

 entirely behind anal. 



This subgenus differs from Zygonectes in the long anal with 13 to 

 16 rays (compared with 8 to 12 in Zygonectes). The peculiar physi- 

 ognomy, with the extremely depressed head, is also a point of 

 difference. 



('>:'">, pointed ; Zygom ctes. > 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Fundulus dovii (Giinther). 



Central America (Cope) . 



Aplocheilus panchax (Hamilton-Buchanan). 



India. 



Aplocheilus macrostigma (Boulenger). 



Haplochilus macrostigma Boulenger, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., (8) VIII, 1911, 

 p. 26S. Lucola River, Luculla River, and Luali River, Portuguese 

 Congo. 



Nos. 38,632 to 38,641, A. N. S. P. Paratypes of H. macrostigma 

 Boulenger. Luna, Luali River, West Africa. Dr. J. W. Ansorge. 

 Purchased. 



Aplocheilus camerouensis (Boulenger). 



Gaboon. 



Aplocheilus sexfasciatus (Gill). 



Epiplatys sexfasciatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 130. Gaboon. 



Nos. 7,129 to 7,141, A. N. S. P., types of E. sexfasciatus Gill. 

 'Gaboon, West Africa. P. B. Duchaillu. 

 Also Luali River at Lundo in Chiloango. 



Aplocheilus senegalensis (Steindachner). 



Africa. 



Aplocheilus spilauchen (A. Dumeril). 



Chiloango Town, Portuguese Congo. 



Adinia multifasciata Girard. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 118. Galveston, St. Joseph Island 

 and Indianola, Texas. 



Nos. 7,291 and 7,292, A. N. S. P., cotypes. Indianola, Texas. 

 Smithsonian Institution. 



Ttivulus micropus (Steindachner). 



Ecuador and Pebas, Peru. 



Xucania venusta Girard. 



Grand Plains Bayou (U. S. F. Com.), Mississippi; Juniper Creek 

 >on southwest side of Lake George (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry and C. W. 

 Johnson), Florida. 



Lucania parva (Baird). 



Besides a large series of local specimens from New Jersey, Delaware 

 .and Virginia, are seven from the first-named State at Anglesea 

 f(W. J. Fox and P. Laurent on October 3, 1897), not previously listed. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



Girardinichthys innominatus Bleeker. 



Act, Soc. Ind. Neerl. (Prodr. Ich. Arch, [nd.), I860, pp. Isl, 184 (on 

 (Jirard's description without a name. Proc. Acad. N Phila 



IS')!), p. US. City of Mexico.) 



No. 7,605, A. N. S. P., cotype. City of Mexico. Collection 

 Major W. Rich. Smithsonian Institution. 



Also seven examples from Lake Xochimilco in 1885 (E. D. Cope). 



ORESTIIN.E. 



Orestias cuvieri Valenciennes.- 



Tinta, Peru, and Lake Titicaca. 



Orestias pentlandii Valenciennes. 



Lake Titicaca. 



Orestias bairdii Cope. 



Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1875, p. 185. Lake Titicaca. 



No. 21,554, A. N. S. P., type. Lake Titicaca, Bolivia. Prof. 

 James Orton. 1873. E. D. Cope. 



This species has been merged with the preceding by Carman, 

 though it appears to differ in the larger pectoral reaching half way 

 to the vent, besides the much larger predorsal scales. 



Orestias agassizii Valenciennes. 



O. ortonii Cope, 1. c, p. 186. Lake Titicaca. 

 O. frontosus Cope, 1. c. Lake Titicaca. 



No. 21,557, A. N. S. P., type of 0. ortonii Cope. 



Nos. 21,555 and 21,556, A. N. S. P., cotypes of 0. frontosus Cope. 



Also several other examples from Peru and Lake Titicaca. 

 Orestias cypho sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 2f; depth 2f; D. i, 13; A. i, 13; P. I, 18; scales 35 in 

 median lateral series to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 14 scales 

 transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 23? predorsal 

 -calcs; head width nearly equals its length; head depth at occiput 

 If; lower jaw 3|; fifth branched dorsal ray 2f; fifth branched anal 

 ray 2\\ least depth of caudal peduncle 2; caudal If; pectoral 1 | 

 snout 5^ in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 5^: maxillary 

 3^; interorbital 3|. 



Body very robust, especially anteriorly, compressed behind, 

 - atesl depth about opposite middle of pectoral. Predorsal with 



vated rather stout and moderately convex median keel beginning 

 at occiput. Caudal peduncle well compressed, length about \ its 

 least depth. 



ffead very wide, robust, large, opercular regions swollen out 

 29 




428 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



that depth of head at hind preopercle edge f its greatest width. 

 Also prominent ridge on each side of head above opercles. Upper 

 profile slightly convex at first, or to occiput, then concave to predorsal 

 ridge. Lower profile steeply convex. Snout wide, depressed or 

 but slightly convex, length about § its width. Eye small, high, 

 front edge near first fourth in head. Mouth vertical, commissure 

 extending slightly below lower eye edge. Upper jaw greatly pro- 

 tractile, or for space slightly greater than eye-diameter. Maxillary 

 vertical, extending back about half way to front of eye. Lips 

 fleshy. Lower jaw vertical, convex in profile, shallow, rami not 

 elevated inside mouth. Teeth small, simple, inconspicuous or 

 concealed more or less in fleshy lips, disposed as narrow short band 

 mostly in front of jaws. Tongue thick, fleshy, depressed, free 



Fig. 3. — Orestias cypho Fowler. 



around edges. Nostrils 2 little slits, close together, above and 

 opposite front edge of eye. Interorbital wide and slightly convex. 

 Hind ridge of preopercle slightly inclined back. Very slight median 

 concave depression on top of head before predorsal ridge. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite middle of eye. Gill-rakers 

 about 10 short stumps, rudimentary. Gill-filaments slightly longer 

 than eye. Isthmus narrow, gill-membranes forming broad fold 

 across. Branchiostegals 5. 



Scales cycloid, largest on predorsal, becoming smaller on hind 

 part of body, caudal base and lower side of trunk. Prepectoral 

 region scaly. Scales on upper surface of head, predorsal and 

 shoulders finely granular, other scales finely roughened with concen- 

 tric stria?. Cheeks with 4 rows of scales, none below preorbital. 

 Scales down median line of predorsal not especially enlarged. Bases 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. |'_" | 



of dorsal and anal naked, also breast and median line of belly. No 

 lateral line. 



Dorsal inserted slightly nearer caudal base than gill-opening, 

 depressed fin not quite reaching caudal base. Anal origin opposite 

 base of first branched dorsal ray, depressed fin reaching :,' to caudal 

 base. Caudal moderately convex behind. Pectoral broad, rounded. 

 If to anal. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish with olive tinge, under 

 surface paler or whitish. Fins all brownish, uniform. Iris brownish. 



Length 153 mm. 



Type, No. 21,920, A. N. S. P. Taken from a Permo snake from 

 La Paz, Bolivia. 1876-77. Prof. J. Orton. From E. D. Cope. 



Only the above example known. It is closely related, if not 

 identical, with 0. neveni Pellegrin, 6 but that species differs according 

 to its description in the following respects: Head 2\; depth 3; 

 D. 15; A. 17; P. 21; scales 32; conic teeth somewhat numerous; 

 dorsal inserted midway between gill-opening and caudal base; 

 pectoral 2| in head. It agrees, however, in having the scales uniform 

 and continuous each side of the median predorsal row, a character 

 by which both species differ from 0. albus Valenciennes. The 

 latter has a naked lengthwise area each side. 



(Cypho, hunchback; with reference to the predorsal keel.) 



CYPRINODONTIN.E. 

 Cyprinodon variegatus Lac6pede. 



C. gibbosus Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, p. 390. 

 Indianola, Texas. 



No. 7,221, A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. gibbosus Baird and Girard. 

 Indianola, Texas. Coll. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution (684). 



Besides the numerous local specimens also examined and recorded, 

 the collection contains others as follows: Connecticut (Noank); 

 North Carolina (Fort Macon); Florida (Miami, southwestern 

 region and Carrabelle); Alabama; Mississippi (Baldwin Lodge). 



Cyprinodon variegatus riverendi (Poey). 



Boca Chica and Marquesas Keys, Florida. 



Cyprinodon bovinus Baird and Girard. 



C. eximius Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 158. Chihuahua 

 River, Mexico. 



No. 7,223, A. N. S. P. Cotype of C. eximius Girard. Chihuahua 

 River, Mexico. Coll. Potts. Smithsonian Institution (No. 3, 501). 



'• Hull. Soc. Z. France, 1904, p. 9.5. Lake Titicaca. 




430 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Also several from Lago de Guzman, Chihuahua, Mexico (Dr. 

 P. P. Calvert). 



Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis subsp. nov. Fig. 4. 



Head 3; depth 2|; D. i, 9; A. i, 10; P. i, 15; V. i, 6; scales 27 

 in median lateral series to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 14 

 scales transversely between dorsal and anal origins; about 25 pre- 

 dorsal scales; head width 1| in its length; head depth at occiput 

 l£, lower jaw 3|; third branched dorsal ray \\; fourth branched 

 anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle If; caudal If; pectoral 

 If; ventral 2|; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; 

 eye 3|; maxillary 3; interorbital space 2f. 



Body well compressed, deepest at dorsal origin, predorsal with 



Fig. 4. — Cyprinodon bovinus rubrofluviatilis Fowler. 



median trenchant keel and well arched before dorsal fin. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, its least depth li in its length. 



Head compressed moderately, upper profile more inclined than 

 lower, and lower sides not especially converging below. Snout 

 short, wide, and length about § its width. Eye moderate, high, 

 centre about first § in head. Jaws greatly protractile, upper at least 

 distensible space equal to snout length. Maxillary nearly vertical, 

 largely concealed. Lips moderate. Teeth uniserial, compressed, 

 each tricuspid and expanded terminally., Inner upper and lower 

 buccal folds moderately wide. Tongue fleshy, small, depressed, 

 little free around edges. Lower jaw slightly protruding in front, 

 oblique to somewhat vertical, shallow, and rami not elevated inside 




1916.] \\li RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



mouth. Nostrils close above upper front, of eye ■ . small, simple. 

 Interorbital slightly convex. Preorbital about f area • Hind 



preopercle edge little free and nearly vertical, entire. 



Gill-opening adnate above to gill-opening close above oase of G 

 pectoral ray, and extends forward opposite hind pupil edge, Gill- 

 membranes widely connected across rather narrow isthmus. Rakers 

 about 26, short slender points about ^ length of gill-filaments, and 

 latter equal eye. Branchiostegals 4. 



Scales rather narrowly imbricated, largest on top of head and 

 opercles, smallest on breast and caudal base. Enlarged humeral 

 scale longer than eye. Scales in 2 rows on cheek. Lateral line 

 obscure and incomplete, formed as short arch of few pores parallel 

 with contour of back far as dorsal origin, a single pore on each scale. 



Dorsal inserted midway between centre of eye and caudal base, 

 median rays longest, and depressed fin extends § to caudal base. 

 Anal inserted about opposite base of fifth branched dorsal ray, fin 

 extending f to caudal base when depressed. Caudal with hind edge 

 slightly convex. Pectoral long, reaches back well beyond ventral 

 origin, latter little before dorsal, and fin reaching vent, which close 

 before anal. 



Color of male, in alcohol, uniform brownish on back and upper 

 surface of head. Sides and lower surface whitish. Fins all pale 

 brownish, and except ventrals densely punctate darker as seen under 

 a lens. Iris pale brownish. 



Length 53 mm. 



Type, Xo. 20,266, A. N. S. P. Brazos River, between Seymour 

 and Authon, Texas. Collection of W. S. Black. E. D. Cope. 



Also large series, Nos. 20,267 to 20,324. A. N. S. P.. paratypes, 

 same data. They show: Head 3 to 3|; depth 2f to 3; D. usually 

 i, 9, rarely I, 8; A. I, 9 or I, 10; scales 25 to 29 in median lateral 

 series to caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter; 12 to 14 scales trans- 

 versely between dorsal and anal origins; snout 3 to 4 in head measured 

 from upper jaw tip; eye 2| to 3; maxillary 2| to 3|; interorbital 

 2| to 2|; length 33 to 45 mm. Most of this series females, and 

 differing from the male in having , six or seven vertical wide cross- 

 bars of dark brownish on trunk. These all more or less variable. 

 Very pale brownish vertical streak at base of caudal. Outer hind 

 portion of caudal with vertical submarginal dusky streak to median 

 rays, though hind edge of fin narrowly pale. Often dorsal and anal 

 ratherdark, though former mostly uniform. Young examples colored 

 like females, variable. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



This interesting form is closely related to Cyprinodon bovinus, 

 apparently differing in the absence of a distinct black pale-edged 

 ocellus on upper hind portion of dorsal. 



Also an example from the staked plains between the Brazos River 

 and Tulip, Red River, Texas. 1892. E. D. Cope. 



Two from the Red River basin south of Clarenden, Texas. E. D. 

 Cope. 



(Named for the Red River, of the most northern inland eastern 

 region at which a member of the genus Cyprinodon has been found.) 



Cyprinodon macularius Baird and Girard. 



Pror. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, p. 389. Rio San Pedro, Arizona. 

 Cyprinodon californiensis Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 158. 

 San Diego County, California. 



No. 7,219, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. macularius Baird and Girard. 

 Rio San Pedro, Arizona. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution 

 (No. 992). 



No. 7,220, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. californiensis Girard. San 

 Diego County, California. Smithsonian Institution (No. 311). 



Also an example from Salt River, in the Gila Basin, at Tempe 

 (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Arizona. 



Cyprinodon elegans Baird and Girard. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1853, p. 389. Camanche Spring, Texas. 



No. 7,222, A. N. S. P., cotype of C. elegans Baird and Girard, 

 Camanche Spring, Texas. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution 



(No. 686). 



Cyprinodon mydrus Goode and Bean. 



Large series from the Florida Keys, which I collected in 1904. 



Lebias fasciatUS Valenciennes. 



Mediterranean (Bonaparte No. 313). Dr. T. B. Wilson. 



GOODEIN.E. 

 Goodea atripinnis Jordan. 



Lake Patscuaro, Mexico (Mexican expedition 1890). 



Characodon variatus T. H. Bean. 



Rio Verde at Rascon, San Luis Potosi, Mexico. 



PCECILIIN^. 

 Gambusia affinis (Baird and Girard). 



Heterandria affinis Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 



p. 390. Rio Medina and Rio Salado, Texas. 

 G. holbrooki Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1859, p. 61. Palatka, Florida. 

 <j. gracilis Girard, I.e., p. 121. Matamoras, Mexico. 

 Haplochilus melanops Cope, Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc. Phila., XI, 1870, 



p. 457. Neuse River, North Carolina. 

 Zygonectes brachypterus Cope, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, 1880, p. 34. 



Trinity River, Fort Worth, Texas. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



Nos. 6,974 and 6,975, A. N. S. P., cotypcs of Heterandria affinis 

 Baird and Girard. J. H. Clark. Smithsonian Institution (No. 66). 



Nos. 6,976 and 6,977, A. N. S. P., cotypes of G. holbrooki Girard. 

 Palatka, Florida. Smithsonian Institution (No. 77). 



No. 6,973, A. N. S. P., cotype of G. gracilis Girard. Matamoras, 

 Mexico. Smithsonian Institution (No. 3,506). 



Nos. 7,143 to 7,159, A. N. S. P., cotypes of Haplochilus melanops 

 Cope. Neuse River, North Carolina. E. D. Cope. 



No. 20,446, A. N. S. P., type of Z. brachypterus Cope. Trinity 

 River, Fort Worth, Texas. E. D. Cope. 



Besides a large series of local material from New Jersey to Vir- 

 ginia are specimens from Big Cypress in Lee County (Baynard), 

 Florida; Devil's River (Pilsbry), Texas; Lake Superior at Pequaming 

 in Brayon County (M. Hebard), Michigan. This species is very 

 abundant in southern New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia, 

 coastwise. Although Dr. Regan separates Heterandria holbrookii 

 Girard and H. patruelis Baird and Girard as distinct species, I feel 

 convinced they are not separable. The amount of variation, even 

 in New Jersey examples, is sufficient to include the limitations he 

 gives, as well as permit still greater latitude. Many aquarium 

 specimens are marked with large black blotches, others are pale 

 and immaculate. 



Gambusia punctata Poey. 



Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, I, 1855, p. 384. Cuba. 



No. 6,978, A. N. S. P., probably cotype? Cuba. Prof. F. Poey. 

 Smithsonian Institution (No. 655). 



Also examples from Santiago de Cuba and Bahia Honda, Cuba. 



Gambusia mcnieli sp. nov. Fig. .5. 



Head 3^; depth 3; D. i, 8; A. n, 8; P. n, 11: V. i, 5; scales about 



26 (squamation injured) in median lateral series to caudal base, and 



2 more on latter; about 7 scales (squamation injured) between dorsal 



and anal origins; 20? scales (squamation injured), before dorsal; 



head width If in its length; head depth at occiput lj; third branched 



dorsal ray If; third branched anal ray If; least depth of caudal 



peduncle If; caudal 1; pectoral If; ventral 2f; snout 2f in head, 



measured from - upper jaw tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 3|; interorbital 



2- 1 - 

 *i o- 



Body well compressed, deepest at ventral origin, lower front 

 profile little more convex than upper, and edges all rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle strongly compressed, about long as deep. 




434 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



Head small, depressed above, constricted sides approximated below, 

 and lower profile little more inclined. Snout wide, depressed, length 

 about f its width. Eye large, high, about midway in head length. 

 Mouth broad, commissure about half way to eye, slightly inclined. 

 Jaws produced, upper protractile nearly equal to snout length. 

 Lower jaw with rami firm at symphysis. Teeth in bands of mod- 

 erate width in jaws, all simple, conic and outer row slightly enlarged 

 and curved. Maxillary greatly inclined, largely slips below front 

 edge of preorbital. Tongue small, depressed, rather narrow, free 

 in front. No teeth on roof of mouth. Lips rather thin. Nostrils 

 close to upper front eye edge. Interorbital broad, flattened. Pre- 

 orbital large, deeper than long and its length about f of eye. Pre- 

 opercle ridge vertical. 



Fig. 5. — Gambusia mcnieli Fowler. 



Gill-opening forward nearly opposite front rim of pupil. Rakers 

 about 14, very slender, their length about | of filaments and latter 

 about f of eye. Isthmus narrow and trenchant. 



Scales large, narrowly imbricated, smaller on caudal base. Scales 

 large on prepectoral region and a single row on cheek. Opercles 

 and top of head with rather large scales. Obscure lateral line, 

 imperfect, and as simple pore in middle of exposure of scale, course 

 median along side, at least posteriorly (squamation largely damaged 

 anteriorly) . 



Dorsal origin just behind anal base, or about last third between 

 front edge of eye and caudal base, and depressed fin extending about 

 | to caudal base. Anal inserted about midway between middle of 

 eye and caudal base, first branched ray longest and others regularly 




1916.] \\l'i RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. I:;.") 



graduated down, depressed fin extending about I to caudal ba 

 Caudal with hind edge convexly rounded. Pectoral long, with 

 wide base, reaches back nearly opposite anal origin. Ventral small, 

 inserted little nearer anal than pectoral, and not quite reaching 

 former. 



Color in alcohol largely brownish, paler below, each -rale on back 

 with cluster of dark pigment dots at pockets. Iris slaty with dark 

 pigment dots. Dorsal rays each with median brownish spot and 

 another midway toward base. Median caudal rays with three or 

 four brownish spots, forming irregular transverse bars, especially 

 evident when fin closes. Outer portions of anal rays with few 

 brownish pigment spots. Except as noted, all fins pale or transparent. 



Length 35 mm. 



Type No. 6,818, A. N. S. P. Panama. J. A. McNiel. 



Only the above example, a female, known. It is close to the 

 figure of G. nicaraguensis Giinther, 7 except the latter shows the 

 dorsal and caudal with more darker spots on the rays, especially 

 terminally. The prepectoral scales smaller, and a dark spot little 

 smaller than the eye above post ventral region. Possibly this figure 

 may refer to Gambusia dovii Regan, 8 as Giinther's G. nicaraguensis 

 was based on "several females 1| or 2 inches long presented by 

 Captain Dow. " Now G. dovii Regan differs in having the depth 3f 

 and the head 3f, eye 3^, 32 scales, dorsal rays 7, and interorbital If. 

 It is based on a single female 33 mm. long. 



G. cascajalensis Meek and Hildebrand 9 differs in the head 3 T V to 

 3f, depth same, D. i, 6, A. n, 7, scales 26, smaller eye (2^ to 3^), 

 and the coloration. 



Three other species, G. latipundata Meek 10 and Hildebrand, G. cana 

 Meek and Hildebrand, 11 G. <l<irienensis Meek and Hildebrand, 12 all 

 have smaller head, lesser depth, fewer branched rays, more scales, 

 smaller eye, different coloration, etc. 



(Named for J. A. McNiel, who collected fishes in Panama many 

 years ago.) 

 Gambusia nicaraguensis Giinther. 



Orizaba, Mexico. * 



7 Tr. Z. Sor. London, VI, 1868, p. 182, PI. 82, fig. 3. Lake Nicaragua. 



8 Proc. Z. Soc. London, 1913, p. 986. Lake Nicaragua. 



9 Field Mus. Pub. Kili, Zool. Ser. X, No. 8, I'M:;, p. sii. Rio Cascajal, Atlantic 

 slope of Panama. 



10 L.c, p. 87. Arrijan, Pacific slope of Panama. 



11 L.c. Rio Satiganti, ('ana, Pacific slope of Panama. 



a L.c, p. 88. Rio Capet i, Tuyra River basin, Pacific slope of Panama. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



Belonesox belizanus Kner. 



Orizaba, Mexico. 



Pseudoxiphophorus bimaculatus (Heckel). 



Orizaba and Jalapa in Vera Cruz (Dr. P. P. Calvert), Mexico. 

 One example from Orizaba adult, and with exceptionally produced 

 hunch on the predorsal region. 



Heterandria formosa (Girard). 



Tick Island in Spring Garden Creek, St. John's River basin (Dr. 

 H. A. Pilsbry), Florida. 



Poeciliopsis occidentalis (Baird and Girard). 



Heterandria occidentalis Baird and Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1853, p. 390. Rio Santa Cruz, Tucon, Arizona. 



No. 6,972, A. N. S. P., cotype of H. occidentalis Baird and Girard. 

 Rio Santa Cruz, Tucon, Arizona. Smithsonian Institution (No. 

 3,511). 



Many examples also from the above locality September, 1910, 

 and others from the Salt River in the Gila basin (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry). 



This species has recently been placed in Mollienisia by Dr. Regan, 

 but the comparison of my series shows it belongs to Poeciliopsis. 



Poeciliopsis lutzi (Meek). 



Head 3f to 3|; depth 3| to 4; D. i, 7; A. in, 7; scales 25 to 27 

 in median lateral series to caudal base, and 2 or 3 more on latter; 

 S or 9 scales between dorsal and anal origins ; snout 3| to 4^ in head ; 

 eye2|to3|; maxillary 2f to 4; interorbital 2 to 2\. Body elongate, 

 fusiform, compressed. Head depressed above. Snout truncate as 

 viewed above, length about f its width. Eye close to upper profile, 

 ■centre at first third in head length. Mouth wide, upper jaw greatly 

 protractile. Maxillary nearly vertical. One row of slender bent 

 spoon-like flexible teeth in each jaw. Lower jaw truncate, scarcely 

 projects. Interorbital flat. Rakers about 14 slender weak points, 

 \ of filaments. Scales mostly uniform, single row on cheek. Dorsal 

 inserted at last third in space between snout tip and caudal base. 

 Anal inserted little nearer pectoral origin than caudal base. Caudal 

 convex behind. Pectoral reaches nearly f to anal, ventral f to vent. 

 Color in alcohol pale brownish, obscure darker blotch on most scales 

 on back. Sides of head and costal region silvery-white. Row of 

 eight to ten small brownish spots, concurrent with vertebral axis of 

 body along its sides, each spot not greater than diameter of eye. 

 Conspicuous blackish blotch at anal origin, sometimes absent or 

 represented by dark basal line, in smaller examples. Fins pale, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



some with several obscure or slightly darker transverse cross-bars. 

 Iris silvery, tinged brownish. Length 40 to 58 nun. Orizaba, 

 Mexico (F. Sumichrast). 



This species is closely related to P. pleuro&pilus (Giinther), and 

 appears to differ only in the coloration, in which the lateral dark 

 spots are fewer in number. The present species was originally 

 described 13 with "a narrow dark streak on under side of caudal 

 peduncle, "' a character not indicated on the figure, 14 which is evidently 

 a female. Meek also describes Heterandria pleurospilus as identical 

 with Giinther'- Girardinus pleurospilus, 1 ' but Regan claims, evi- 

 dently as they arc said to have "sides with 8 to 11 black spots .... 

 each about as large as eye, " that they are not Gunther's species, 16 but 

 H. lutzi Meek. Xone of these writers mention the conspicuous 

 black blotch so frequent in adult females at the front basal portion 

 of the anal fin, and well represented in Gunther's figure of G. pleuro- 

 spilus. 1 ' 7 



Leptorhaphis infans vWoolman). 



Orizaba. Mexico (F. Sumichrast). 



Phalloceros caudimaculatus (Hensel). 



Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Also several aquarium examples, 

 recently imported to Philadelphia, remarkable for their coloration. 

 Two are females and one a male. They are largely very pale 

 brownish, and below more whitish. Each scale on back with slight 

 or obscure narrow brownish edge. Sides of trunk and head with 

 silvery reflections. Slightly darker brownish streak down middle 

 of back. Fins all whitish, marked irregularly with jet-black blotches. 

 On middle of side, just below middle of depressed dorsal vertical 

 elliptical brownish blotch, obscure, about equal to eye-diameter. 

 Body and head also marked in striking contrast with irregular or 

 variable blackish blotches. Iris grayish. In no two individuals, 

 or even on each side of the same individual, are these color-patterns 

 alike. They are extremely prominent and render the fish very 

 attractive in the aquarium. Though this may be due in large 

 measure to domestication, certain wild examples also show similar 

 modifications, as I have found Gambusia affinis and Mollienisia 

 latipinna, from Florida, equally as contrasted as in the case of the 



13 Field Mus. Pub. 65, Zool. Ser., 1902, p. 106. Oaxaca, Cuicatlan and Venta 

 Salada, Mexico. 



14 L.c, 93, Zool. Ser., 1904, p. 149, fig. 47. 



15 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., VI, 1866, p. 355. Lago de Duenas, Guatemala. 



16 Biol. An. Centr. Pise, 1906-8, p. 99. 



17 Tr. Z. Soc. London, VI, 1868, p. 486, PI. 87, fig. 1. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



present species. Possibly these concentrated dark blotches may be 

 of parasitic origin, though a casual examination with the microscope 

 discloses nothing but crowded jet-black chromatophores. 



Glaridiohthys uninotatus Poey. 



Bahia Honda, Cuba. 



Girardinus metallicus Poey. 



Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, I, 1855, pp. 387, 391, PI. 3, figs. 8-11. Cuba. 



No. 6,971, A. N. S. P., cotype. Cuba. Smithsonian Institution 

 (No. 252). 



Also another from Cuba without definite locality (W. T. Innes). 



Platypoecilus couchianus (Girard). 



Monterey, Mexico. 



Platypoecilus maculatus Giinther. 



Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), Mexico (W. T. limes). 



Xiphophorus helleri Heckel. 



Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), Jalapa (Dr. P. P. Calvert), Mexico 

 (R. E. Dorsey and F. L. Tappan). 



Poecilia Vivipara Schneider. 



Surinam (Dr. C. Hering) and Hucares, Porto Rico. I have also 

 examined a large series from Guanica, obtained by Mr. C. F. Silvester 

 in 1915. 



Lebistes reticulatus Peters. 



Trinidad and Brazil. 

 Mollienisia latipinna Le Sueur. 



South Carolina (Dr. J. E. Holbrook) ; Boca Chica Key, Hernando 

 County and Bayport (E. D. Cope), Blue Creek in Lake County 

 (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), and Tick Island (Dr. H. A. Pilsbry), Florida. 

 A small example from the last locality is irregularly blotched over 

 head, trunk and fins with blackish, like some examples of Gambusia 

 affinis. 



Mollienisia sphenops (Valenciennes). 



Venezuela? (Dr. J. F. Bransford), Panama (J. A. McNiel), Wounta 

 Haulover in Nicaragua (Rev. Fluck), Orizaba (F. Sumichrast), 

 and Rio Verde at Rascon, Mexico. 



Limia vittata (Guichenot). 



L. cubemis Poey, Mem. Hist. Nat. Cuba, I, 1855, p. 388, PI. 31, figs. 12-13. 

 Cuba. 



No. 6,814, A. N. S. P., cotype of L. cubensis Poey. Smithsonian 

 Institution (No. 659). Also another Cuban example from Poey. 

 Guaninar, Cuba. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPH] \. 439 



ANABLEI'IX 1 

 Anableps anableps (Linne). 



Surinam (Dr. C. Hering) and Para, Brazil. Trindad (Dr. B. 

 Sharp) . 



Anableps microlepis M Ciller and Troschel. 



Pedernales, Venezuela. 

 Anableps dowei Gill. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, p. 4. Lallnia, San Salvador. 

 No. 6,982, A. N. S. P., type. Lallnia, San Salvador. Capt. Dow. 



AMBLYOPSID^E. 

 Amblyopsis spelaeus De Kay. 



Many from Mammoth Cave, Kentucky. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



on some varieties of thais lapillus in the mount desert 

 region, a study of individual ecology. 



by harold s. colton. 

 Introduction. 



In this study an attempt is made to correlate some of the many 

 color varieties of Thais (Nucella, Purpura) lapillus with the condi- 

 tions under which the animal lives. The study is based on field work 

 carried out in the neighborhood of Mount Desert Island, Maine, in the 

 summer of 1915. Over 12,000 snails were collected from sixty-seven 

 localities, sorted, and the variations tabulated. These tables were 

 then compared with the environment of the snail. 



With respect to Thais there is a very general belief that color is 

 correlated with the color of the environment. Cooke (1895) cites a 

 locality in Cornwall where striped forms are found on striped rocks. 

 Blaney (1904) reports yellow forms were found to predominate on 

 the yellow granite rocks of Yellow Island, a small island in French- 

 mens Bay on the Maine coast. On account of the great variation 

 of Thais and the apparent predominance of one variety in a given 

 locality, a study of the variations might throw light on some of the 

 ecological factors of the sea beach. 



Life History of Thais. 



Thais (subgenus Nucella or Purpura) lapillus is a carnivorous 

 prosobranch mollusk. It feeds almost exclusively in this region on 

 the mussel, Mytilus edulis, and the barnacle, Balanus balanoides. 

 The former it attacks by boring a hole in the shell about 1 mm. in 

 diameter, devouring the soft parts by means of its long flexible 

 proboscis. The barnacle is eaten in much the same manner, the 

 hole being drilled through one of the scutes. Not only do they 

 sometimes attack the periwinkle, Littorina littorea, but will try to 

 bore through the shell of one of their own kind. Although many 

 shells show scars, there is no evidence, however, that many are 

 destroyed in this way. 



The descriptive ecologist has neglected the Atlantic coast north 

 of Cape Cod. King and Russell's classification for the coast of 

 Scotland will not hold for this region. Some day, if some one else 






1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



has not undertaken it, the writer hopes to make a descriptive classi- 

 fication of the animal communities of the sea beach in the Mount 

 Desert region. Provisionally he recognizes the following classifica- 

 tion of the Littoral Formation: 



/Drift Zone. 

 ILittorina rudis Zone 

 \ (Mean High Water). 



Solid Rock Association planus Zone 



uJbucus Zone.) 



/Mytilus Zone. 



(Transition Zone 



Littoral Formation^ \ (Mean Low Water). 



IRock Association. 

 'Rock Pool Association. 

 Boulder Association. 

 Shingle or Pebble Association. 

 Sand Beach Association. 

 Mud Flat Association. 



The mean rise and fall of the tide is ten vertical feet. 



Thais is found in the Solid Rock, Boulder and Rock Pool Asso- 

 ciations. In the two former it is confined to the Balanus, Fucus, and 

 Mytilus Zones, and particularly to the Balanus and Mytilus Zones, 

 as there the food is found. There, Thais is associated with Littorina 

 rudis, L. pallia ta, L. littorea, Balanus balanoides and Mytilus edidis. 

 When the tide is high the cunner (Tautogolabrus adspersus) and the 

 pollack (Pollachius virens) invade this formation to feed. 



Thais is not found in the Shingle, Sand or Mud Flat Associations. 

 Nor is it found alive in any association of the Bottom Formation, 

 unless we should classify the Rock Pool as a detached part of this 

 formation. 



It is not found in any stratum other than the upper surface of 

 rocks. It is found therefore neither on the weeds nor under the soil. 



Its habitat is very closely associated with its food. (See diagram, 

 fig. 1, illustrating the food relations of Thais to its organic environ- 

 ment.) 



The eggs are laid in little urn-shaped capsules in sheltered places. 

 They are more abundant in the Mytilus Zone in favored spots, such 

 as in cracks in the rocks or under masses of Fucus than in the Balanus 

 Zone. In each capsule about 400 eggs are laid. As cannibalism 

 is practised (Beard 1899, Carpenter 1857, Glaser 1905. Pelseneer 

 1904, Robert 1902) by the growing snail, a capsule containing snails 

 readv to hatch will hold but 8-14. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



irudis 

 palliata 

 liltorea. 



V 



Young Gull 



Chemical compounds. 

 . dissolved in sea water 



'hyxorplanktor 



oo-plankton 



'Balanus 



ult Gulls 



(Pollack and cunner) 



Fig. 



1. — Diagram illustrating the principal relations of Thais to its organic 

 environment in the Rock Association. To be complete this diagram should 

 show an entire cycle of the material. Each one of the organisms listed 

 above gives off liquids to the sea water that may be again used. They also 

 furnish solids either as waste products or by death, which, when acted on 

 by bacteria, will give more soluble matter as well as a residual solid that 

 will help contribute to the sea bottom in other localities. The dead animals 

 will supply food for amphipods, the amphipods food for fishes like the 

 sculpin, and so relations are established with other associations. This 

 diagram shows that the biota of the Rock Association is dependent alone 

 on the palagic formation. The relationships with other associations are 

 destructive to it rather than constructive. 



The young snail has enemies in the shape of fish, so those which 

 fail to take refuge in small cracks in the rocks are destroyed. At 

 this time the food consists of young mussels which grow abundantly 

 in the joints in the rocks. If one does not know where to look for 

 the young snails, none will be seen, so far are they crowded into the 

 cracks. 



A few pollack that were caught at high water over a Thais 

 habitat had their stomachs full of young Littorina palliata which 

 they had eaten from the same locality in which Thais lives. L. 

 palliata cannot hide in the rock cracks, as their food is on the Fucus 

 stems. If the fish could find young Thais, there is no reason why 

 they should not be eaten as well as Littorina. 



Although the young snails are hatching throughout the greater 

 part of the summer, most of them hatch out in August and reach 

 between 10-15 mm. in the first winter. This is measured by large 

 ridges on the shell, which indicate periods of rest in the growth of 

 the shell. These rest periods are assumed to indicate the winter, 

 but are not proved to correspond to it. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



1 13 



The curves in fig. 2 show the rate of growth in three different 

 environments. These are but approximations. Further study may 

 show that the first year may be really the second. 



The oldest snail found was estimated as being seven years old. 

 The great majority are about two or three years old. 



Cooke (1895) estimates that each female snail lays two hundred 

 egg capsules a year. Each capsule contains about four hundred 



Fig. 2. 



eggs. Food seems to be in most places abundant. The snails have 

 been observed to be limited in number by the following factors : 



(1) Cannibalism within the egg capsule, only ten to twelve hatch- 

 ing out of 300-400 eggs. 



(2) Limit to the number that can take refuge in cracks in rocks 

 and yet get enough to eat. 



(3) Fish, such as pollack, will gobble up any stragglers. 



(4) Half-grown snails, ones too big for the pollack, are used by 

 herring gulls as food, the empty shells being regurgitated. 



■ ■ 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [J line, 



(5) Very large specimens are carried by the gulls to a height and 

 dropped on any near-by flat rock in the same way as the gulls treat 

 both sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus) and welks {Buccinum). 

 Only the largest Purpura will break and only the largest are collected 

 for this purpose. 



(6) Certain ones seem to be parasitized by a sporocyst, but this 

 was not investigated. 



(7) Accidents, such as a surf heavy enough to move the rocks on 

 which the animals live, may destroy others. In such habitats few 

 if any are found. The maximum size of these rocks may in exposed 

 places be boulders two to three feet in diameter, while in very shel- 

 tered places Thais will be found on pebbles two inches in diameter. 

 The limit is obviously determined by wave action. 



(8) Ice probably destroys others, as they are not found in places 

 where shore ice can accumulate. 



(a) In Maine they are not abundant in shallow coves that freeze 

 up solid in the winter time. 



(b) Their geographical distribution also seems to indicate that 

 sand beaches are a barrier, as Thais lapillus is not found west of 

 Montauk Point. On Long Island Sound the barrier has not been 

 determined. Both Balanus and Mytilus being found west of Stam- 

 ford, Conn., the most westerly recorded station for Thais, and the 

 shore is still rocky. In the north shore ice seemed to form the 

 barrier See map, fig. 3. 



Various adaptations are at once manifest on examining this 

 animal: (1) The strong shell, so strong that a drop from a height 

 will not always break it. (2) The strong foot, which makes dis- 

 lodgment from its substratum difficult. (3) Its habit of seeking 

 shelter under rocks and fucus. (4) The method of egg-laying, with 

 its protection of the young until they are able to care for themselves, 

 although if but two and a quarter per cent, of these laid hatch, those 

 two and a quarter per cent, are almost sure to hatch. 



Method. 



As each station was visited, from 200 to 500 shells were collected 

 when Thais was abundant. In some places they literally covered 

 every inch of the rock. In other places they were so rare that a 

 careful search of a quarter of a mile of beach would often disclose 

 but two or three. 



Each collection as made was placed in a bag made of mosquito 

 netting. While still alive the snails were sorted into the dozen or 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIEN< ES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



n:» 



so groups of the principal varieties. The number in each group was 

 tabulated. For future reference the bag of snails was preserved in a 

 tub of formalin. 



A study of the color varieties seems to show that there are a number 

 of colors and patterns that may be combined together in any sort 

 of way. These are as follows: 



(1) Pure white shells that show no trace of color. 



(2) Purple. The color in this ease is diffuse through the shell, 

 but is darker within the aperture. 



Fig. 3. — Map of the North Atlantic Ocean showing the distribution of Thais 

 (Purpura or Xucclla) lapillus. (After Cooke, Proc. Mai. Soc. London, 

 vol. II, p. 193.) The cross-hatching shows the occurrence of T. lapillus. 

 The southern barrier to T. lapillus is no1 clear, but the northern barrier is 

 obviously the presence of ice on the shore 



(3) Chestnut. This color may be pure quite often, but it is- 

 usually combined with purple, forming a chocolate, or with yellow,. 

 forming olive. 



(4) Yellow is a color which, when uncombined with one of the 

 others, makes the shell very conspicuous on the rocks. Owing to 

 its relative rarity and to its being so conspicuous, it often appears 

 in shell collections in proportions that are misleading. Only by 

 collecting all the snails from a given locality can this be avoided. 



(5) Dilute. Every one of the colors mentioned above may appear 

 in a dilute in contrast to its intense form. 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



(6) White lip of the apperture is quite common in some localities. 

 In fact, purple is rarely found not associated with a trace of lighter 

 color on the lip. This white lip may be combined with all colors 

 and dilutions. 



(7) Narrow stripes. In many shells about ten narrow white stripes 

 are found on any color background. 'These are sometimes associated 

 with the ridges which appear on many shells. 



(8) Wide stripes of white, usually two in number, often appear. 

 The widest stripe equals two or three of the narrow ones and the 

 smaller stripe is double the width of the narrow ones. The widest 

 stripe is always posterior to the narrower stripe. 



(9) Spot of purple on the columella. This is rare at Mount Desert, 

 but very common at Rye Beach, New Hampshire. 



(10) Imbricata. A fluting of the ridges of the shell gives rise to 

 the variety called by Lamarck imbricata. 



Apparently each one of the ten characters recognized may be 

 combined with any other. If this is so there must be 1,103 varieties. 

 Not that many varieties have been found. This is due to the fact 

 that one cannot distinguish certain combinations from one another. 

 As an example, let us consider the case of the colors alone. We have 

 purple, chestnut, yellow, and white. There are eight possible combi- 

 nations of these: white, purple, chestnut, yellow, purple-chestnut, 

 purple-yellow, chestnut-yellow and purple-chestnut-yellow. These 

 last four are shades of olive and chocolate, and cannot be distinguished 

 easily from one another. If we combine these four color combina- 

 tions into one group and omit the white lip and purple spot on the 

 columella, we will reduce the possible number of variations to be 

 recognized from 1,103 to 33. Twenty-eight of these thirty-three 

 varieties have been recognized. However, there are five that are 

 so rare that they were not discovered in a collection of six thousand 

 shells when they were particularly sought after. These were narrow 

 stripe dilute yellow, wide stripe narrow stripe yellow, wide stripe 

 narrow stripe dilute yellow, narrow stripe dilute olive, and wide 

 stripe dilute olive. The yellows which contribute to the olive color 

 and the dilute are much rarer than any of the others, so it is no 

 wonder that they are the ones that would be lacking in combinations. 



It is obviously impossible to attempt to correlate all the known 

 varieties with environmental factors, so the writer has for the sake 

 of convenience reduced still further the number of groups. The 

 particular groups recognized are as follows: 



(1) White; that is, pure white. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



(2) Light — pure white, together with intense and dilute chestnut 

 with white lip. The outer layer of the shell of these is white. 



(3) Dark — chestnut and purple in all their combinations. 



(4) Yellow — pure yellow. 



(5) Striped— both narrow and wide stripe in all their combinations 

 and color. 



(6) Imbricated — in all the combinations of patterns and color- 

 In the tables that follow the number of snails found in each group 



is stated in per cent, of all the snails in each collection from a given 

 station. 



The Relation of the Varieties to the Environment. 



The base for this study was Greenings Island, an island locat< d 

 between Northeast and Southwest Harbors in the mouth of Somes 

 Sound. It is triangular in shape, with a perimeter of about two and 

 a quarter miles. The main mass of the island is composed of till, 

 which at one time formed the terminal moraine of the continental 

 glacier before it retired from Somes Sound. This till is protected 

 from rapid wave erosion by outcrops of reddish granite at the east 

 and west end of the island. This granite is cut in several places by 

 broad basalt dykes which run in a general north and south direction. 

 Under wave erosion the till between the outcrops of solid rocks has 

 given material to form a boulder-strewn beach and in favorable 

 places the finer products have given rise to pebble and sandy beaches. 

 On the west or more sheltered side of the island between the granite 

 outcrops are a number of muddy coves. 



On this small island we have all the principal Littoral associations 

 present. The distribution of these are found in fig. 4. This figure 

 is a diagram of the shore of Greenings Island, with the vertical scale 

 very much exaggerated. It has been made as though the shore were 

 cut at the northwestern point and folded out so that this north- 

 western point appears at each end of the diagram. The character 

 of the shore is indicated. The island as a whole is protected from 

 heavy surf by outlying islands, but the eastern end is exposed to the 

 ocean swell from both the south and cast, and at times of storm- i- 

 subject to quite a surf. The northeast shore and south shore are 

 relatively unprotected at the east end, but become more protected 

 toward the west. On the diagram the per cent, of pure white shells 

 are placed in the locality in which the collection was made. 



An inspection of this figure will show that the most unprotected 

 portion has the lighest colored snails, while the portion of the island 




448 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



<9 



III 

 111 



<r 



(9 

 U. 



o 



-LNIOfcJ 



o 



I 



I- 

 <c 



UJ 



O 



_LNIOd • 



> 



o 

 u 



f- 



<: 

 tr 







o 



t>i3oy >ovig-- 



<l/\COV/VlD 

 DC 



£ .INIOd 7A'9 



3 ° 



111 



I- 



> 



J.NIOJ /AN 



0„ 



o5»oo7Q 



«&? 



OfoOf 



:i 



•:o: 



'3 



°0^O b 



•;;,-.. , ," | o 



UJ 



§ 



I 





CO. 



O 



D 



o-3 



fen 



HI 



2 



C 



§ 4i 03 



+^ r£ --i P 



o C » O 



C3 .—. — « 



+s f-i if oo 



° t; > c 



as ?J ,c 

 i- 3 - on 



S C 83 <^> 

 ,£ > O 



0) 



c 

 o 



CO 



c3 



O 



as S 



03 -C J5 E- 



-^ E 



o 



© g §.*§ 



.-< TO *^ 



in CO 



cj t3 o S 



O 

 N 



- 



>h += as -a cc> 



^ — ~ o & 



^^ — ^ ^ 



J2 <-' e *" 83 S 



~ 03 C j* i; 



03 o3 



83 



83 



C3 <-*< 8j • 



c^ © o " 



<=i . 



83 



— ( O 



S3 cc 



BO '5 ?- "J c c 



c - 2 



8J _ 83 « 03 r 

 r ^ *i S Sb 03 no 



,,H £ M +=> .-. 



n -4-5 ^ 4J 03 



3 ^ ^- ^ C 



XI o ^-^ , o 

 tn 



§1« 



83 



03 al-Q 



83 *^ C 



^^ 



d.22 



03 



^3 



03 ° 2 



O 5 , 



ib oi » i 



^ 03 03 



|.Q 



bfi^ -2 % 03 ^ 

 rf g C »^ • 



03 



a S c 



ag 



h4 



ho 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



subject to the smoothest water has the darkest. This difference is 

 very striking and the intermediate stations show intermediate ratios. 



This has led the writer to classify the shores according to the wa\ 

 These are arbitrary divisions and of course every intergradation is 

 found, but in most cases there is very little hesitation how a given 

 -i ation should be described. If a great uncertainty exists, the station 

 was placed in both classes. 



Sea cliff or surf exposed to the open sea. An ordinary row boat 

 can practically never land with safety. 



Bay exposed to a moderate surf during high winds. Except at 

 those times a small boat can easily land on the shore without danger 

 of accident. 



Harbor so smooth that a row boat can practically always make a 

 landing. 



In the tables which follow the stations nearest together are always 



compared. 



Table I. 



Condi- Station No. of 



Locality. tion. No. Individuals. Lt. White. 



Bakers Id Surf. 23 65 6.1 



Bay. 24 167 20.7 6 



Seal Harbor Surf. 54 176 2.8 



Bay. 56 34 55.6 44 



Cranberry Id Surf. 10 319 30 4.3 



• Surf. 11 195 59 9.7 

 Bay. 13 204 15 5.7 



• We can conclude that in general the snails on the most exposed 

 situations are darker than those found in the bay. 



Table II. 



Condi- Station Xo. of % 



Locality. tion. No. Individuals. Lt. White. 



G — ngsId | a j bo , 3? lit S 1 2 1! 



BuckelId gSo, iS Hi % % 



Bear Id Bay. 43 277 24 12| 



Harbor. 44 6< 10§ H 



Oronold Bay. 19 55 11 7 



Harbor. 18 184 50 2, 



Southwest Harbor. Bay. 37 194 29| 19 



Harbor. 36 196 I" I 



Harbor. 35 273 25£ 11 



Harbor. 47 172 14$ 6J 




450 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[June, 



If we combine the conclusion from Table I with Table II we see 

 that snails in the exposed positions tend to be dark as well as those 

 in the sheltered places, while those in the bay shore tend to be the 

 lighter colored. 



The following table includes the results of collections made at 

 stations separated by no barrier, near together, but on a substratum 

 of different colored rocks. The numerous black basalt dykes that 

 everywhere cut the red granite make a number of collections of this 

 sort possible. Only a very few of the possible ones have been studied. 



In general, more light-colored snails are found on the red rocks 

 than on the black rocks. The association of yellow forms with the 

 environment is inconclusive. There does not seem to be any correla- 

 tion from these few cases. Thirty-three collections from red rocks 

 average 4% yellow. Fifteen collections from black rocks average 

 4.7% yellow. 



In this region there are occasional outcrops of a banded rock, a 

 chlorite schist. That there might be a correlation between striped 

 forms and schist is a possibility that may be investigated. The 

 collections from the red granite given in the table are those made 

 nearest to the chlorite schist. This comparison was not in mind 

 when the collections were made, so the stations are often several 

 miles apart. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ml. 



Table IV. 



Locality. Substratum. Striped Shells. 



Blue Hill Hay Chlorite schisl l.l 



Red granite 



Western Way ......Chlorite schisl 27 % 



Red granite 1 (avrratic oi Is collec- 



t ions from this region) 1 1.-1% 



Western Way Chlorite schist 27 ' , 



Nearest Granite Station Red granite 18.")', 



The distance apart of the stations introduces so many other factors 

 that with such meagre data no conclusions can be drawn. The 

 writer expects that the results are really negative. 



The relative proportions of the imbricated forms from different 

 localities are as follows : 



In the upper bays the water is much warmer than near the ocean. 

 This warmth is indicated at Blue Hill by bathhouses being located 

 along the beaches. Xone of the resorts farther down the bays have 

 any, the water being too cold for bathing in the bay in those places. 

 The upper bays are relatively shallow and there are muddy spots 

 found on the rocky beaches between the rocks. Five stations in this 

 region had imbricata ranging from 38% to 96%. 



In the middle bay region of Blue Hill Bay the water is deep and 

 the rocky shores are clean. Xo imbricata were found in the three 

 stations in this region. 



The western side of lower Blue Hill Bay is shallow, with many 

 islands and ledges. Among these islands there are many mud flat- 

 and the same conditions are found on the upper bay. Five station- 

 had imbricata ranging from 9% to 30%. 



Near the islands separating the lower bay from the ocean the 

 water is, in general, deep and the rocky shores clean. Five stations, 

 0-5^% imbricata. 



On the outer islands the surf, of necessity, keeps the rocks free 

 from sediment. Two stations, 17-57%. 



In Somes Sound environmental conditions similar to those in 

 Blue Hill Bay are found. The rocks are muddy in the harbors near 

 mud flats and clean where wave action is possible and the water i- 

 deep. If we except two stations at the Southwest Harbor steam- 

 boat wharf, where the ratio of imbricata was 19% and 19.2%, respe 

 ively, the average of thirty-five stations containing 7,119 individuals 



1 Of these eighteen collections, four had over _'. ' , striped, one had ■'•. 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



was only .47%. The largest number found was but 3|% at any one 

 station and that was on the rocks of a muddy harbor. The station 

 in Somes Harbor farthest away from the ocean had but .6% imbricata. 



That there are other geographical factors is shown by the rarity 

 of imbricata in the Somes Sound region. Very few are found in 

 exposed situations on the Cranberry Islands and on Seal Harbor 

 Head, situations exposed to the full effort of the surf. Except for 

 a colony at the Southwest Harbor steam-boat wharf, in the whole 

 Somes Sound region they are indeed rare. Out of 2,765 shells 

 collected on Greenings Island but three were imbricated and these 

 three were found at one station on the muddy west side of the island. 



However, in general, we can say that the imbricated forms are 

 found in greatest abundance in exposed situations, as Duck Island 

 and Long Island, and also in the most sheltered positions. 



Most of the varieties found in the Atlantic are also found in the 

 forms inhabiting the north Pacific Ocean. Dall 2 reports that the 

 lamellated forms of Thais in that region are found best developed 

 in sheltered harbors. The Atlantic lamellated forms we have seen 

 may occur in sheltered as well as in exposed situations. 



As Thais is found in both the Balanus and the Mytilus Zones, is 

 there any difference between collections made close together but 

 in different zones? The an.swer to this question is summed up in 

 the following table (Table V) compiled from collections made but a 

 few feet apart, but in different zones. 



Table V. 



Imbri- 

 Locality. Zone. Sta. Lt. Wt. Yel. St. cata. 



Greenings Id., 



eastern point Balanus. 2 44.5 21.3 ? 



Mytilus. 50 37.5 22.5 14.4 



,Steam-boat wharf, 



S. W. H Balanus. 37 29.5 19. 17.5 1.5 19.0 



Mytilus. 47 14.5 6.4 4.1 37 19.2 



Stanley House 



wharf, S. W. H Balanus. 35 25.3 11 2.2 4.0 



Mytilus. 34 21.4 4.8 5.3 



(1) There are more light forms in the white Balanus Zone than 

 in the dark Mytilus Zone. 



(2) There are fewer yellow forms in the dark Mytilus Zone. 



(3) Striped forms not conclusive. 



(4) Imbricated forms not affected. 



2 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. t vol. 49, pp. 557-572. 




1916.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 153 



Natural Selection. 



Natural selection, we can assume, is most severe on Little Duck 

 Island. Tliis little island, lying four miles out at. sea, is exposed to 

 the surf on every side. The herring gull, one of the chief enemies 

 of adult Thais, has a rookery on the island, and every summer thou- 

 sands of birds roost there at night and have their nests. Everywhere 

 regurgitated Thais shells cover the rocks, which tell a story of a 

 struggle for existence. 



In collecting on this island for two hours but four hundred and 

 twenty-nine living snails were found. These were discovered at the 

 lower edge of the Mytilus Zone. All had been picked off the rocks 

 above by the gulls. This collection is chiefly notable in containing 

 a very large proportion of dark individuals, only 1.1 per cent, white 

 were found. Nineteen per cent, were imbricated. 



It can be said with justification that where the struggle for exist- 

 ence is greatest on the exposed islands and the muddy harbors 

 selection tends to preserve the dark-colored and the lamellated 

 forms. 



Conclusions. 



A study of the color varieties leads one to the conclusion that they 

 are hereditary and that we are dealing with things that are probably 

 unit characters. Even the development of lamella?, as in imbricata, 

 are not modifications caused by induction that is caused by the direct 

 action of the environment. 



As there are great differences between the ratio of the color varieties 

 present in different localities, we assume that natural selection is 

 acting. 



In the bay environment conditions are at an optimum. No mud 

 film covers the Mytilus, and Balanus forms crusts over the rocks an 

 inch to an inch and a half thick. Here Thais is most abundant. 

 Five hundred can be gathered in ten minutes or even less. A handful 

 can be gathered at one scoop. 



In the surf environment the barnacles do not form such thick 

 crusts. On the harbor shore ice destroys the barnacles in the winter 

 and a mud film covers the mussels. So that the barnacles are usually 

 small and far apart, while the mussels are separated by mud from 

 the rocks. Sand and mud are barriers to Thais. Although the 

 surf environment and the harbor environment are the antithesis of 

 one another, yet they have many effects on Thais that are similar. 

 These effects are as follows: 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June, 



(1) The curve of growth, fig. 2, shows that those in the surf 

 environment at a given age are smaller than those from the bay- 

 environment. 



(2) There is a tendency toward dark individuals. 



(3) There is a tendency toward lamellated forms. 



These studies show that natural selection has some determining 

 action on the color varieties present. (1) It has been shown that 

 the color of the rocks, whether dark or light, has an effect. (2) It 

 has been shown that the white barnacle-covered rocks contain more 

 light-colored ones than those on the mussel bed but a few feet away. 

 (3) It has been pointed out that those living on rocks near mud 

 flats are darker than on the more exposed points of the same islands. 



The present study must leave the question of the relation of the 

 yellow forms and the striped forms to the color of their substratum 

 yet unsettled. 



In general, however, there is a relation between the color and the 

 environment. This relation is caused by natural selection and not 

 by the direct action of the environment. 



List of Literature. 



Beard, J. 1S99. Principles of Animal Development. I. The Whelks Egg. 



Nat, Sci., XIV, pp. 131-137. 

 Blaney, D. 1904. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. XXXII, No. 2. 

 Carpenter, W. 1857. On the Development of Purpura. An Mag. Nat, 



Hist,, 2d Series, Vol. XX. 

 Cooke, A. H. 1895. Cambridge Natural History, Vol. Ill, The Mollusks, 



pp. 69, 90. 

 Cooke, A. H. 1915. Proc. Mai. Soc. London, p. 193. 

 Glaser, O. C 1905. Ueber den Kannibalismus bei Fasciolaria tulipa (var. 



distans), Zeit f. wiss. Zool., Bd. LXXX, p. 80. 

 Gould, A., and Binney, W. G. 1869. Invertebrates of Massachusetts, 2d Ed., 



Boston, pp. 360-362. 

 King, L. A. L., and Russell, E. S. 1909. A Method for the Study of the 



Animal Ecology of the Shore. Proc. Rov. Phvs. Soc. of Ed., Vol. XVII, 



pp. 225-253. 

 Pelseneer, P. 1904. Le Mode de Nutrition des Embrvons de Purpura lapillus. 



Cong. Zool., VI, pp. 343-345. 

 Robert, A. 1902. Recherches sur le developpement des Troques. Arch. 



Zool. Exp., 3 ser., X, No. 3. 

 Shelford, V. 1913. Animal Communities in Temperate America. Univ. oi 



Chicago Press. 

 Sumner, F. B., Osburn, R, C, and Cole, L. J. 1911. A Biological Survey ol 



the Waters of Woods Hole and Vicinity. Bull, of the Bureau of Fisheries, 



Vol. XXXI. 

 Walter. 1910. Variations in Urosalpinx. Am. Nat., Vol. XLD , No. o26 r 



October. 




1916.] NAT! EtAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



NEW GENERA. AND SPECIES OF GASTROPODA FROM THE UPPER 



CRETACEOUS. 1 



BY BRUCE WADE. 



The extent of the Gastropod fauna discovered in the Upper 

 Cretaceous of Tennessee and the remarkable state of preservation 

 of the hitherto unknown generic types warrant the present pre- 

 liminary account of some of the more interesting. 



The locality is on Coon Creek, in the northeastern part of McNairy 

 County, in west-central Tennessee, and a somewhat detailed account 

 has been published recently in the Johns Hopkins Circular. The 

 horizon is in the lower part of the Ripley formation and hence some- 

 what older than the classic Owl Creek fauna of the Ripley of Tippah 

 County, Mississippi. 2 



Family CANCELLARIID^E. 

 Genus MATAXA gen. now 



Etymology: (j.dra^a } cocoon. 



Type: Mataxa elegans sp. nov. 



Shell of medium size and thickness; spire obtuse, its altitude less 

 than half the entire length of the shell ; protoconch large and smoothly 

 polished, the earliest volutions for the most part submerged and 

 increasing rapidly in size, thrice-coiled in the type-species; conch 

 solid and slightly glazed, paucispiral, external sculpture subdued, 

 axial sculpture subdued or absent; aperture broadly lenticular and 

 produced anteriorly in a comparatively long recurved canal; outer 

 lip expanded and dentate internally; parietal wall widely and heavily 

 glazed; columella marked by two strong oblique plaits situated far 

 in and behind two or more marginal plaits. 



This genus is proposed for a species represented at Coon Creek 

 by perfectly preserved elegant shells and a species Narona eximia, 



1 Published by permission of Dr. A. II. Purdue, State Geologist of Tennessee. 



2 The writer wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to Prof. E. \Y. Berry and 

 Dr. J. A. Gardner, of the Johns Hopkins University, under whose guidance this 

 work was done; to Dr. W. H. Dall and Dr. T. \\ . Stanton, of the U. S. Geological 

 Survey, and especially to Dr. L. \Y. Stephenson, of the latter organization, who 

 has been engaged for several years in the areal, stratigraphic, and faunal studies 

 of the Cretaceous of the Embayment region. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



described and figured by Stoliczka 3 in 1867 from South India and 

 referred to the Cancellariidse. It differs from Cancellaria, in gen- 

 eral, by the development of a well-defined canal, by its lack of sharp 

 and conspicuous cancellate sculpture, and further by its less acumi- 

 nate spire. It differs from Narona, a subgenus of Cancellaria, in 

 having a longer canal, a spire less acutely elevated, an anterior 

 columellar plait more elevated than the posterior, instead of less so. 

 Probably Mataxa is nearer the rare recent subgenus Massyla* than 

 any other form in the genus Cancellaria, but in this comparison, too, 

 there are generic and time differences so great that it seems advisable 

 to assign the Tennessee and South Indian forms to a new genus. 

 Mataxa differs from Massyla in possessing a thicker, stouter and 

 more solidly built shell; in having a comparatively long recurved 

 canal, and further in nuclear characters. The protoconch of Massyla 

 is trochoid, while in the nucleus of Mataxa the early volutions are 

 for the most part submerged. 



Mataxa elegans sp. nov. PI. XXIII, figs. 1, 2, 3. 



Description. — Shell of medium size, ovate in outline; spire less 

 than half the entire length of the shell; whorls of conch three and a 

 half in number; protoconch large, smooth and obtuse,' thrice coiled, 

 the first and second volutions for the most part immersed and coiled 

 in a single plane, the final whorl of the protoconch moderately 

 elevated, increasing rapidly in size; surface of conch slightly glazed 

 and inconspicuously sculptured; axials reduced to fine incrementals 

 and one or two exaggerated resting stages; spiral sculpture of low, 

 broad, flattened bands, eight in number upon the penultima of the 

 type, the two posterior the widest and separated from one another 

 by a wide and rather deep sulcus; body spirals very obscure, increas- 

 ingly so toward the aperture, more than 30 in number, interspaces 

 wider than the spirals and very shallow, excepting directly in front 

 of the suture; suture impressed; aperture more than half the entire 

 length of the shell, lenticular in outline and produced anteriorly into 

 a comparatively long canal; outer lip marked internally by 10 or 12 

 regularly spaced Urate denticles; columella reinforced with two 

 rather strong oblique folds a little less than half way between the 

 base of the body and the anterior extremity of the aperture and a 

 less prominent marginal fold and occasionally a fourth feeble plication 



3 Stoliczka, F., Cretaceous Eauna of South India, Geol. Surv. India, p. 166. 

 PI. XII, 1867. 



4 Adams, H. and A., Genera of Recent Mollusca, 1855, vol. I, p. 278. 




1911).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. l.",7 



behind the margin; anterior fasciole rather short, moderately wide, 

 emarginate at the extremity. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 23.4 mm.; maximum diameter, 13 mm.; 

 spiral angle, 57°. 



This form is well characterized by its somewhat buccinoid outline 

 and rather low, obtuse spire, subdued spiral sculpture, the slightly 

 flaring outer lip and plicate inner lip. This species is represented 

 in the Coon Creek collection by two perfect specimens which are 

 remarkable for shells as old as the Cretaceous on account of their 

 state of preservation. The individuals possess a certain freshness 

 of appearance and shell-color that remind one of recent gastropods 

 lately recovered from the water. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Cood 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family VOLUTID^E. 

 Geuns TECTAPLICA gen. nov. 



Etymology: tecta, hidden; plica, fold. 



Type: Tectaplica simplica sp. nov. 



Shell of medium size, thick and strong; rudely biconic in outline; 

 spire about one third the entire length of the shell; apex acute; 

 protoconch broken away, scar small; whorls very much appressed; 

 sculpture dominantly axial ; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly 

 into a slightly bent canal; outer lip simple; inner lip callous; parietal 

 wall glazed; columella marked by three weak but well-defined folds, 

 terminating far within the margin of the aperture. 



This genus is well characterized by a thick, strong and simple shell 

 which has a columella marked by feeble folds. It is one of the most 

 primitive of the Volutes and may be considered as ancestrally related 

 to Volutilithes. It differs from Volutilithes in having a less elongate 

 spire, which is flattish on the sides and not interrupted by pro- 

 nounced shoulders. Volutilithes is typically spinose and has an 

 inner lip usually well excavated and marked by prominent folds, 

 which extend well out on the inner lip. 



Tectaplica simplica sp. nov. PL XXIII, fig. 4. 



Description. — Shell of medium size, biconic in outline; spire 

 acuminate, less than one third the entire length of the shell; whorl- 

 very closely appressed. six in number on conch; axial slopes flattish: 

 protoconch broken away, -car small; external sculpture dominantly 

 axial, consisting of ten prominent broadly rounded costae increasing 

 toward the aperture, crossed by very many faint spiral ridg 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



summit of costse unmarked by lirse; posterior fasciole indicated by the 

 weakening of the axial sculpture; sutures inconspicuous, aperture 

 lanceolate, produced anteriorly into a long canal; outer lip simple; 

 inner lip callous and parietal wall glazed, callus concentrated just 

 below the posterior commissure of the aperture; columella marked 

 by three well-defined but feeble folds terminating within the aperture; 

 posterior fasciole indicated by abrupt constriction of incrementals. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 35 mm.; maximum diameter, 13 mm.; 

 spiral angle, 59° 20'. 



This very simple, primitive Volute is represented in the present 

 Coon Creek collection by a single individual. The folds of this form 

 terminate so far within the aperture that it is necessary to section the 

 spire in order to observe the columellar plaits. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee: 



Genus DRILLUTA gen. nov. 



Etymology: A contraction of .the generic terms Drillia and 

 Voluta. 



Type: DriUuta communis sp. nov. 



Shell strong and fusiform; spire elevated; whorls numerous, 

 increasing slowly in diameter; protoconch very small and smooth; 

 sculpture dominantly axial, the costse interrupted in front of the 

 sutural line by a well-defined but rather narrow fasciole; aperttire 

 lenticular, produced anteriorly into a long, gently recurved canal; 

 outer lip broadly arcuate, simple within; inner lip calloused; colu- 

 mella bearing one well-defined oblique fold, frequently with one or 

 two minor folds behind it, all of which evanesce before reaching the 

 aperture. 



This genus includes a well-defined and widely distributed group 

 of the Volutidse, some of which are undescribed and some that have 

 been described have been variously assigned to such genera as 

 Drillia, Voluta, Fasciolaria and Fusus. DriUuta may be readily 

 separated from Drillia by the absence of a posterior siphonal notch 

 and further by the presence of columellar plaits on the Volute. The 

 typical Voluta has a lower spire and numerous transverse folds. 

 Fasciolaria has a more inflated body whorl and is not characterized 

 by a well-defined posterior fasciole as is the case with DriUuta. 

 Fusus on account of its smooth columella cannot be confused with 

 DriUuta. There are two well-defined groups among the Drillutce, 

 so it seems advisable to separate this group into two sections. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Section A. New section. 



Type: Drilluta communis sp. nov. 



This section is characterized by shells of met limn size with well 

 rounded axials and a variable number of columella plaits which 

 terminate within the aperture. The spiral sculpture is very fine on 

 the spiral whorls and young individuals but well-defined on i 

 anterior part of the body of adult individuals, and lacking on the 

 posterior part of the older whorls of such individuals. This section 

 is proposed to include besides the Coon Creek species the form 

 "Drillia ? distans" Conrad 5 from Owl Creek, a closely related species 

 from Corsicana, Texas, and a poorly preserved specimen from Bright- 

 seat, Maryland. The descriptions and figures of Voluta lativittata 

 Griepenkerl 3 and Voluta canalifera (Favre) G. Muller 7 indicate 

 generic and sectional relations nearer to Section A of Drilluta than 

 to any other forms that have been found in the literature. 



Drilluta communis sp. nov. PI. XXIII, figs. .5 and 6. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and fusiform in outline: spire 

 elevated, its altitude approximately one-half the entire length of the 

 shell : apical angle higher on the posterior part of the spire, becoming 

 slightly lower on the younger whorls; protoconch very smooth and 

 trochoid, coiled about three times; whorls of conch closely appressed 

 and eight in number; both axial and spiral sculpture developed, the 

 former dominant, axial costse rounded and abruptly elevated, 11 to 

 17 in number to the whorl, 14 on the penultima of the type, costae 

 rlexuous, uniform in strength from the posterior fasciole to the 

 anterior suture and a little less than half way down to the base of 

 the body on the ultima; fasciole narrowed, indistinctly marked on 

 the early whorls, defined in the later whorls by the abrupt disappear- 

 ance of the axial costse; spiral sculpture of fine crowded impressed 

 lines on apical whorls, becoming faint and almost disappearing on 

 the medial part of older whorls, but reappearing as coarse, impressed 

 lines on slope of body whorl, becoming faint and disappearing on 

 anterior fasciole; suture impressed; body whorl sloping down smoothly 

 into a broad pillar; aperture lanceolate, produced anteriorly into a 

 very feebly recurved canal; inner lip callous; outer lip simple; colu- 

 mella marked by one well-defined fold and one or two weaker posterior 



5 Conrad, T. A., Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 2d ser., vol. IV. p. 

 pi. 46, fig. 49, 1860. 



•Griepenkerl, O., 1889, Palaeonlologische Abhandl., Band IV. Befl ■">, p. 93 

 (395), Taf. viii, fig. 1, 1889. 



7 Muller, ('■., 1899, Abhandl. d. h'd-i. Preus.-geol. Landesanstalt, neue Folge, 

 Hefl 25, p. 124, Taf. xvi, figs. L3, I l. 

 31 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



folds, all of which evanesce before reaching the aperture, plications 

 invisible in the aperture. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 62 mm.; length of aperture, 31 mm.; 

 maximum diameter, 20 mm.; spiral angle, 40° on posterior whorls, 

 decreasing to 25° on anterior whorls. 



This species is one of the most abundant and best preserved 

 univalves at Coon Creek. It shows a considerable range in size 

 and external ornamentation. Some of the young individuals exhibit 

 a fine spiral sculpture over the entire length of the shell. The number 

 of columellar plaits is variable. These terminate far within the body 

 whorl, distant from the margin of the aperture, and in many indi- 

 viduals are almost entirely obscured, although they are readily 

 revealed by sectioning the spire. A comparison of this form with 

 two other members of the section of the genus, one from Owl Creek, 

 the type locality of "Drillia ? distans" Conrad and the other from 

 Corsicana, Texas, indicates that the Coon Creek species is interme- 

 diate between those cited. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Section B. New section. 



Type: Drilluta major sp. nov. 



This section is characterized by a large, much elevated and 

 elaborately sculptured shell. The whorls are abruptly shouldered. 

 The posterior shoulder is marked by spinous regularly spaced varix- 

 like projections. It is proposed for a well-defined group of Drillutce 

 which include, besides the Coon Creek species, a species from Owl 

 Creek and another from Brightseat, Maryland, which has been 

 questionably referred to Fasciolaria* on account of the imperfect 

 character of the material. The description and figures of Voluta 

 magnified Griepenkerl 9 and Voluta (Volutilithes) subsemiplicata 

 (d'Orbigny) G. Mi'iller 10 present generic and sectional relations which 

 suggest this section of Drilluta. 



Drilluta major *p- nov. PI. XXIII, figs. 7 and 8. 



Description. — Shell thick and large, fusoid in outline; whorls closely 

 appressed, seven in number and increasing slowly in size; apex 



8 Gardner, J. A., Md. Geol. Surv., 1916, Cretaceous, Upper, p. 438, pi. xiv, 

 fig. 11. 



9 Griepenkerl, O., 1889, Palaeontologische Abhandl., Berlin, Band IV. Heft 5, 

 p. 94 (396), Taf. viii, fig. 2. 



10 Mliller, G., 1899, Abhandl. d. Kon. Preus. geol. Landesanstalt, neue Folge, 

 Heft 25, p. 123, Taf. xvi, figs. 10-18-21. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PIflLA DKI.IMI I A . ! I, | 



acute, broken away, but protoconch as indicated by the scar probably 

 very small; whorls of spire slightly flattened dorso-ventrally, con- 

 stricted posteriorly, ultima merging smoothly into a wide pillar; 

 external ornamentation quite coarse and elaborate: axial sculpture 

 of rounded quite strongly elevated costae waving backward along 

 the shoulder, 11 to 14 to the volution, costae becoming shorter and 

 less prominent on approaching the aperture, on young whorls costae 

 reach from posterior fasciole to anterior suture, but become shorter 

 anteriorly and occur only along the shoulder of the whorl: posterior 

 part of whorl constricted and marked by a narrow posterior fasciole 

 set with closely spaced spinose, varix-like processes, most of these 

 processes broken away in type; spiral sculpture absent on first three 

 apical whorls, becoming more prominent anteriorly until conspicuous 

 on body whorl; more than thirty strongly elevated spirals on body 

 whorl, spirals more widely spaced on medial portion of body whorl ; 

 spirals along medial portion of body somewhat arcuate on type with 

 most gentle slope anteriorly; body w T horl sloping gently into a broad 

 pillar; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal; 

 inner lip calloused, parietal wall thinly washed; fold in front of one 

 or two less prominent folds, all of which become obsolete before 

 reaching the opening of the aperture. 



Dimensions. — Imperfect specimen: Altitude, 85 mm.: maximum 

 diameter, 32 mm.; spiral angle, 30°. 



This magnificent species is represented in the present collection 

 from Coon Creek by two individuals, both of which, while imperfect, 

 yet show the essential characters of the shell. It is well characterized 

 by the elaborate axial and spiral ornamentation, the very acuminate 

 spire and further by the spinose varix-bearing posterior fasciole. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family FUSID^E. 



Genus FUSUS Lamarck. 



Subgenus A.NOMALOFUSUS subgen. nov. 



Etymology: avatpLaXos, irregular; fusus, a gastropod. 



Type: Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus sp. nov. 



Shell of medium size and elongate, fusiform in outline: spire 

 acuminate and of approximately the same length as the aperture; 

 protoconch naticoid and smooth, coiled about three times; axials 

 most prominent ornamentation, costae irregular in size and spacing; 

 spiral sculpture consisting of many fine elevated line of different 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



sizes which override axials; suture impressed, aperture lenticular 

 and produced anterior^ into a canal; outer lip thickened and dentate 

 within, broadly notched between suture and medial part of outer 

 margin of aperture; inner lip thinly calloused, columella smooth and 

 slightly sinuous. 



The nuclear characters, the sharp cancellate sculpture, and inter- 

 mediately thickened outer lip which is broadly notched in front of 

 the suture seem to assign this form to the rank of a subgenus under 

 Fusus. This form bears some resemblance to Phos in general outline, 

 but is much more slender. Phos is characterized by a columella 

 which is much more sharply twisted. Anomalofusus has a longer 

 canal than any of the Buccinidse and lacks the abruptly excavated 

 columella, plicate in front, which is characteristic of Phos. Besides 

 nuclear characters, Anomalofusus differs from Fusus in its shorter 

 canal, and further by its thickened and notched outer lip. 



Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus sp. nov. PI. XXIII, figs. 9, 10, 11. 



Description. — Shell of medium size and elongate, fusiform in 

 outline; spire acuminate and of approximately the same length as 

 the aperture; whorls roundly shouldered, three to five in number on 

 conch; protoconch naticoid and smooth, coiled about three times; 

 external sculpture elaborate, axials predominating, costse well rounded 

 and elevated, irregular in size and spacing, reaching from anterior 

 to posterior suture on spiral whorls, but evanescing on anterior part 

 of body ; spiral sculpture consisting of about 14 small primary elevated 

 lirse and in each interspace there are from one to three very fine 

 primary lirse, primary lirse lacking on a narrow band just in front of 

 suture, both primary and secondary lirse override costse; suture 

 impressed; aperture lenticular and produced anteriorly into a canal; 

 outer lip thickened and dentate within, broadly notched between 

 suture and medial part of outer margin of aperture; inner lip cal- 

 loused; columella smooth and slightly sinuous. 



Dimensions. — Immature individual: Altitude, 17.5 mm.; length 

 of aperture, 9.5 mm. ; maximum diameter, 7.5 mm. ; spiral angle, 35°. 



This elegantly sculptured gastropod is abundant at Coon Creek. 

 There is a wide range in the maturity of individuals, some have only 

 one whorl of the conch, while the older ones have five whorls. The 

 protoconch is preserved and conspicuous on most specimens. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



Genua ORNOPSIS gen. i 



Etymology: opvi?, bird; o<J".$, form. 

 Type: Orno'psis glenni sp. now 



Shell fairly large and strong; body whorl inflated; spire varying in 

 relative altitude; protoconch very small, smooth, paucispiral, and 

 trochoid; both axial and spiral sculpture well developed; aperture 

 pyriform, abruptly constricted, and sinistrally inclined; outer lip 

 marginally crenate; parietal wall washed by a callus; columella 

 marked by a strong laterally compressed laminar plait situated a1 

 the entrance of the anterior canal. 



This genus is characterized by a peculiar narrow flexed canal and 

 a sharp laminar plait on the columella directly behind the entrance 

 of the anterior canal. In these respects it differs from the other 

 Fusidae. In general outline Ornopsis elevata greatly resembles the 

 genus Latirus, but differs from it in the character of the anterior canal. 

 Odontofusus of the Fasciolariidse has a more elevated spire, a more 

 feeble columella fold and a nearly straight anterior canal. The 

 close, compact spire of Ornopsis resembles some of the Buccinidse, 

 but here again the apertural features are distinctly different. 



Ornopsis glenni sp. nov. PI. XXIV, fig. 1. 



Description. — Shell fairly large and strong; elevation of spire less 

 than length of aperture; protoconch very small, smooth, paucispiral 

 and trochoid; volutions of conch six in number, increasing in size 

 from a very small apical whorl to an inflated body whorl; externa! 

 ornamentation well-defined, axials elevated, well rounded and short, 

 beginning at shoulder and quickly evancescing in front of the periphery 

 of body, becoming less prominent toward aperture and disappearing 

 almost entirely in some individuals, costae of varying size and spacing, 

 twelve on body of type; spiral lines sharply impressed, more than 

 thirty on body whorl, becoming fine and oblique on pillar; shoulder 

 broad, feebly convex; suture impressed; body whorl abruptly con- 

 stricted into a slender pillar; aperture pyriform, produced anteriorly 

 into a narrow canal sinistrally inclined; outer lip sharp and mar- 

 ginally crenate ; parietal wall washed with a callus thickest at posterior 

 extremity of aperture; columella flattened at the entrance of the 

 canal into a shelf-like fold. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 48 mm.: length of aperture and canal, 

 33 mm.; maximum diameter, 24 mm.; spiral angle, 60°. 



This form is well characterized by its pointed apex, much inflated 

 body and further by the flattened shelf-like fold. It is one of the 

 most abundant gastropods at Coon Creek, being represented in the 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



collection by many perfect specimens. It is the type of the genus 

 and is named in honor of Dr. L. C. Glenn, Professor of Geology at 

 Vanderbilt University. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Ornopsis elevata sp nov. PI. XXIV, figs. 2 and 3. 



Description. — Shell of medium size, rugose; spire elevated, its 

 altitude approximately the same as the length of the aperture; 

 protoconch broken away; external sculpture dominantly axial, the 

 costse elevated and rounded, highest upon the shoulder, becoming 

 faint toward the anterior, evanescent anteriorly and absent altogether 

 upon the posterior fasciole, about twelve on body whorl, irregularly 

 spaced toward aperture; space between shoulder and posterior 

 suture separated by slightly narrower concave intercostals; spiral 

 sculpture of rather low, crowded lirae separated by deeply impressed 

 lines, about twenty on body whorl; lirae equally as well marked on 

 the summit of the axials as in intercostal spaces; suture line impressed; 

 body whorl smoothly constricted anteriorly into a narrow pillar, 

 posterior part of aperture ovate, but broken anteriorly by a rather 

 long narrow anterior canal; inner lip calloused; columella flattened 

 at the entrance of the canal into a flat shelf-like fold. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 34.5 mm.; maximum diameter, 17.2 mm.; 

 spiral angle, 44° 51'. 



This species differs from Ornopsis glenni in possessing a higher, 

 more acuminate spire and a less inflated body whorl. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family BUCCINIDiE. 



Genus HYDROTRIBULUS gen. nov. 



Etymology: udwp, water; t/>:',3»/<>c, burr. 



Type: Hydrotribulus nodosus sp. nov. 



Shell moderately large and solid, top shaped in outline; spire less 

 than half the entire length of the shell; protoconch scar small, sculp- 

 ture vigorous, the axials undulatory, the spirals more sharply defined; 

 aperture pyriform and produced anteriorly into a narrow recurved 

 canal; outer lip expanded and abruptly constricted at the base of 

 the body, dentate within; parietal wall heavily glazed, sometimes 

 bearing a tooth-like process directly in front of the posterior com- 

 missure; inner lip excavated and calloused, reflected anteriorly, con- 




1 • n (5 . ] NATURAL .SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



cealing entirely the umbilicus; edge of pillar flattened at entrance of 



canal, simulating a fold. 



This genus is characterized by a fairly low-spiral angle; vigorous 

 rugose, cancellate sculpture; a much inflated body and further 1- 

 much excavated and reflected inner lip, which conceal- an umbilicus. 

 Besides the Coon Creek species it is represented by an undescribed 

 species from Owl Creek, Mississippi, and another from Brightseat, 

 Maryland, and further by a species in the Senonian of Aix-la-Cha- 

 pelle. Germany. The German species was first described by Ntuller 

 in 1851 and assigned to the genus Rapa. Since then it has been 

 variously assigned by other palaeontologists to such genera as Fusus, 

 Pynila, Hemifusus, Pyropsis and finally to Tudicla by Holzapfel, 11 

 who discussed the species in 1888. A study of the description and 

 figures of the German form, together with the Coon Creek species 

 and specimens from the Maryland and Mississippi localities, indicate- 

 that these species belong to a well-defined group, and it seems advisable 

 to propose for their reception a new genus Hydrotribulus of the family 

 Buccinidee. In general aspect this genus resembles Pyrifusus, but 

 differs from it in having a shorter recurved anterior canal and a 

 pillar which is flattened and recurved in a unique manner at the 

 entrance of the canal. Tudicla has a much flatter spire, a more globose 

 body and a much more abruptly constricted, longer and straighter 

 canal. It differs from Strepsidura in characters of the anterior 

 canal and aperture and further by its characteristic rugose cancellate 

 sculpture. 



Hydrotribulus nodosus sp. nov. PI. XXIV, figs. 4 and 5. 



Description. — Shell fairly large and very heavy with a rugosely 

 cancellate sculpture; top-shaped in outline; spire rather low; its 

 altitude less than the length of the aperture, sides converging at an 

 angle of 70 degrees; whorls of conch five in number and rapidly 

 increasing in size to a much inflated body; whorls of conch obliquely 

 shouldered, the peripheral angle of the spire falling in front of the 

 medial horizontal; sculpture vigorous, both axial and spiral, 

 restricted almost entirely to the area in front of the periphery; 

 axials elevated and broadly rounded, sixteen in number on the body 

 whorl of the type, subequal in size and regularly spaced; spiral 

 sculpture of broad, elevated fillets, most prominent on the body; 

 subnodose at the intersections of the axials which they override. 



"Holzapfel, E., Palaeontographica, Band XXXTV, p. L06, Taf. xi, figs. 1-7. 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



two in number on the whorls of the spire and four on the medial 

 portion of the ultima, separated by shallow channels of approximately 

 the same width as the fillets; shoulder sloping at an angle of about 

 45°, very feebly convex; sculpture with retractive undulations 

 corresponding in number and proportion to the axials with an obscure 

 secondary liration and revolving a little behind the periphery; base 

 of body and pillar threaded with flattened spirals which become 

 increasingly narrow anteriorly; suture quite deeply channeled, 

 undulated in harmony with the preceding volution, body whorl 

 constricted rather abruptly into a broad pillar; aperture pyriform. 

 produced anteriorly into a narrow canal; outer lip broadly expanded; 

 crenulated at the margin and feebly cordate within, the cords 

 restricted to the margin and corresponding in position with the 

 interspiral areas; inner lip broadly concave, non-plicate; parietal 

 wall heavily glazed and bearing an obscure tooth directly in front 

 of the posterior commissure; edge of pillar flattened at the entrace 

 of the canal simulating a fold, canal sharply recurved, moderately 

 long and narrow with parallel proximate margins; umbilicus closed 

 by the reflected inner wall of the aperture but indicated by a depres- 

 sion between the callus and the anterior fasciole. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 44 mm.; length of aperture and canal, 

 28 mm.; maximum diameter, 32.4 mm.; spiral angle, 70°. 



This elegant species is represented in the Coon Creek collection 

 by perfectly preserved specimens. The species is characterized by 

 the obliquely shouldered whorls, the prominent subnodose intersec- 

 tions of the banded spirals and the undulatory axials, further by the 

 low spiral angle and outline of cross-section of body. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family EUOMPHALlD^l. 

 Genus HIPPOCAMPOIDES gen. nov. 



Etymology: i-7tuy.ap.7:o$ ) sea-horse; eldo? y shape. 



Type: Hippocampoides serratus sp. nov. 



Shell rather small, flattened or feeble apically; widely and deeply 

 umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid, paucispiral; whorls of 

 conch relatively few, increasing rapidly both in diameter and altitude 

 toward the aperture; external surface usually smooth; peripheral 

 margin acutely angulated, often sharply serrate; aperture holo- 

 stomous, umbilicus funicular, the outer margin acute, conspicuously 

 produced anteriorly. 




191*).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



This flattened form is assigned to the familj Euomphalidae because 

 of its flat spire, its dee)) wide umbilicus, the outer margin of which 

 is produced conspicuously and further on account of the angular 

 peripheral margin. Hippocampoidcs resembles Discolx lix somewhal . 

 but differs from it in having a protoconch not inverted and further 

 in not having a whorl with a quadrate cross-section. It may be 

 separated from Straparollus by the height of the spire and cross- 

 section <>f body whorl. 

 Hippocampoides serratus ~i> nov. PI. XXIV. figs. 11, i_\ 13. 



Description. — Shell rather small, flattened or very feebly convex, 

 apically concave laterally, the altitude increasing toward the aperture, 

 profoundly umbilicate; protoconch minute, planarboid depressed 

 below the plane of the initial whorl of the conch, the one and one- 

 half component volutions rather loosely coiled and approximately 

 uniform in diameter, line of demarkation between conch and proco- 

 conch indicated by a slight but very abrupt increase in the diameter 

 of the whorl; conch thrice coiled, the whorls increasing regularly and 

 quite rapidly in diameter; external surface smooth and probably 

 polished in the original state; peripheral keel acute, sharply and, on 

 the final half turn, profusely serrate; the indentation nearest the 

 aperture running almost half way to the suture line; the deepest of 

 the serrations coincident with pronounced resting stages so the 

 last half turn seems to be made up of a series of overlapping tri- 

 angular plates; suture line rather deeply impressed; aperture semi- 

 elliptical in outline, the aperture half again as great as that of the 

 body whorl at its initiation, but less than half that of the body whorl 

 at its close; peristome adnate along the body wall, very feebly emargi- 

 nate both at the peripheral and at the umbilical keels, approximately 

 straight between the notches, umbilicus very wide, profound, 

 persistent to the apex, funicular, the outer margin acute, probably 

 serrated; area between the peripheral and umbilical keels quite 

 symmetrically concave. 



Dimensions. — Altitude. 11 mm.; length of aperture. 5 mm.: 

 maximum diameter. 19.2 mm. 



This species is remarkable for the auriculate outline of the apical 

 aspect, the deep serrations of the periphery, the rapid increase of the 

 altitude of the shell toward the aperture, the lateral concavity and 

 the profound umbilicus, approximately half as wide as the entire 

 shell and margined by an acutely angulated keel. The edge of the 

 keel has been macerated, but there is evidence that it was quite 

 strongly serrate. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF |July, 



Occurrence. — -Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family TURBINIDSE. 



Genus SCHIZOBASIS gen. nov. 



Etymology: *%%£&, to split; /?«<"?, base. 



Type: Schizobasis depressa sp. nov. 



Shell of medium size, thick, porcellaneous, depressed and globose, 

 very low and smoothly rounded; protoconch lost in type species; 

 conch paucispiral, the component whorls increasing regularly and 

 rapidly in diameter; sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral; sutures 

 obscure; aperture circular, interrupted posteriorly by a slight shallow 

 siphonal notch and anteriorly by a slit which marks the entrance of 

 the anterior canal; outer lip not thickened, simple within; inner lip 

 excavated, heavily reinforced; anterior canal rather short with the 

 parallel proximate margins distorted so that it appears as a narrow 

 slit cutting across the base of the shell directly at right angles with 

 the axis; callus almost filling the umbilicus; umbilicus imperforate, 

 the umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened against 

 base of the columella, from which it is separated by a profound sulcus; 

 depressed umbilical keel marked by growth stages or often poorly 

 defined varices. 



This genus is characterized by depressed spire and by a peculiar 

 anterior canal which is short and deep and at right angles to the axis 

 of the shell and resembling a slit in the anterior part of the aperture. 

 It does not seem to be near anything heretofore described, and it has 

 been assigned to the family Turbinidse only after some hesitation. 

 The Turbinidse have a much depressed shell and sculptural and 

 nuclear characters much like Schizobasis, but none of that family 

 possess the short, well-defined canal which characterized this new 

 genus. The recent Turbo comutus, which is common in the Indo- 

 Pacific, has a very shallow anterior canal. The genus Sargana of 

 the Thaisidse has a much depressed spire, a shallow, posterior notch 

 and a narrow anterior canal inclosed in an umbilical keel which is 

 varicose and altogether possesses points analogous to Schizobasis. 

 Sargana has an entirely different sculpture and a much produced 

 anterior canal which are family characters, probably great enough 

 to bar Schizobasis from the Thaisidse. Turbo differs from Schizobasis 

 in being nacreous and in having no well-defined canal. There 

 is an undescribed species of Schizobasis that occurs at Eufaula, 

 Alabama. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Schizobasis depressa sp. nov. PI. XXIV, tins g, 9, LO. 



Description. Shell of medium size, thick, porcellanous, depree 

 and globose, spire very low and smoothly rounded, rising slightly 

 al>ove the body whorl; protoconch broken away in type species; 

 conch paucispiral, the component whorls three and one half in 

 number, increasing regularly and rapidly in diameter, outer wall of 

 mie and one-half whorls of the apex broken away from spire of type; 

 sculpture coarse and dominantly spiral, seven low, round spirals on 

 body whorl, evanescing rather suddenly on body near aperture of 

 adult, posterior spiral less rounded and very near posterior suture, 

 obscuring suture line, interspiral spaces much narrower than spirals; 

 a deep spiral sulcus at base of body between anterior spiral and 

 umbilical keel; spiral sculpture consists of irregularly occurring 

 unequal costse shown on top of spirals and absent in interspiral 

 -paces; costse receding anteriorly, parallel to outer margin of aperture, 

 aperture circular, interrupted posteriorly by a slight shallow siphonal 

 notch and anteriorly by a slit which marks the entrance of the 

 anterior canal; outer lip simple: inner lip excavated, heavily rein- 

 forced; anterior canal rather short with parallel proximate margins 

 distorted so that it appear- as a narrow slit cutting across the base 

 of the shell directly at right angles with the axis; callus almost 

 filling the umbilicus; umbilical keel showing two poorly defined 

 varices; umbilical region spread out in a trigonal area and flattened 

 against the base of the columella. 



Dimensions. — Elevation, 18.-4 mm.; maximum diameter, 23.3 mm.; 

 spiral angle, 125° 40'. 



The type of this very interesting genus is represented in the Coon 

 Creek collection by a single perfectly preserved specimen. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



Family DELPHINULIDiE. 

 Genu> URCEOLABRUM gen. nov. 



Etymology: urceus, jug; labrum, lip. 



Type; Urceolabnun tuberculatum sp. nov. 



Shell small and porcellanous; trochoid in outline with a con- 

 spicuous aperture; apex acute, protoconch broken away in type 

 species, but scar small; sculpture cancellate, often tubercular at the 

 intersection of spirals and axial-; suture impressed; aperture circular 

 and much thickened around the rim, umbilicus wide and deep. 



This genus is proposed for a well-defined group of form- which are 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [July, 



characterized by a conspicuous circular reinforced aperture, a pro- 

 found umbilicus, and an elevated cancellate spire. Besides the 

 Coon Creek species two others are known, an undescribed species 

 from Eufaula, Alabama, and a species described by Miiller in 1851 

 from Aachen beds of Vaals, Germany, and referred to the genus 

 Scalaria. The same species was referred to Liotia by Holzapfel in 

 1888. 12 This genus differs from typical Liotice which occur in the 

 Coon Creek strata in having a more elevated spire, a circular rein- 

 forced aperture and further by a profound umbilicus. In general 

 outline there is some resemblance to Delphinula, but Delphinula has 

 a nacreous interior and an aperture which is not reinforced or circular. 



Urceolabrum tuberculatum *p nov. PI. XXIV, figs. (3 and 7. 



Description. — Shell small, solid, porcellanous and ornately sculp- 

 tured; spire elevated and acute; protoconch scar small; whorls 

 circular in cross-section and four in number; external ornamentation 

 elaborate, axials dominant, costae 14 in number on penult equally 

 spaced and evanescing on base of the body ; spirals forming 5 rows of 

 tubercles at intersection with costae on body whorl, interspiral space 

 at base of body rather wide, an isolated row of tubercles on anterior 

 margin of the umbilicus; suture impressed and crenate; aperture 

 circular, peristome heavily reinforced and calloused resembling 

 mouth of a jug, rim of aperture half as wide as opening; umbilicus 

 profound and funicular. 



Dimensions. — Altitude, 5 mm.; width of aperture, 1 mm.; maximum 

 diameter of body. 3.4 mm.; apical angle, 60°. 



This elegant little species is hard and well preserved, being rather 

 common in the Coon Creek sediments. It may be separated from the 

 Eufaula species by the fact that the Eufaula form has fine secondary 

 lirse between the primary spirals and on the band at the base of the 

 body whorl. It differs from the German species of this genus 13 in 

 having sharper axials and tubercles at intersection of costae and 

 spirals; the German form has radial lines on the reinforced aperture, 

 while aperture of the Tennessee form is smooth. 



Occurrence. — Ripley Formation: Dave Weeks Place, on Coon 

 Creek, McNairy County, Tennessee. 



12 Holzapfel, E., 1888, Palaeoulographica. Band XXXIY, p. 170, Tai. xviii, 

 figs. 3-7. 



13 Holzapfel, E., 1>>>>s. Inc. cit. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXIII. 



WADE: NEW CRETACEOUS GASTRCPCLA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXIV. 



WADli: NEW CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA. 





1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 171 



Explanation- of Plates XXIII and XXIV. 



Plate XXIII.— Fig. 1. — Mataxa elegans gen. el sp. nov. Rear view, x 2. 



Fig. 2. — Same. Apertural view. X 2. 



Fig. 3. — Same. Apical view. X 10. 



Fig. 4. — Tectaplica simplica gen. el sp. nov. Apertural view. Nat. Bize. 



Fig. 5. — Drillulii communis gen. el sp. nov. Apertural view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 6. — Same. Rear view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 7. — DrilhUa major gen. el sp. nov. Rear view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 8. — Same. Apertural view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 9. — Fusus substriatus sp. nov. Apertural view. X 2. 



Fig. 10. — Same. Hear view. XlJ. 



Fig. 11. — Same. Apical view. X 10. 



Plate XXIV. — Fig. 1. — Ornopsis glenni now. e1 sp. nov. Apertural view. Nat 

 size*- 

 Fig. 2. — Ornopsis elerata gen. et sp. nov. Apertural view. X 1£. 

 Fig. 3. — Same. Rear view. X 1£. 



Fig. 4. — Hydrolribuliis nodosus gen. et sp. nov. Apertural view. Nat. size. 

 Fig. 5. — Same. Rear view. Nat. size. 



I .%. 6. — Urceolabrum tuberculatum gen. et sp. nov. Apertural view. X 0. 

 Fig. 7.— Same. Rear view. X 0. 



Fig. 8. — Schizobasis depressa gen. et sp. nov. Rear view. Nat. size. 

 Fig. 9. — Same. Apertural view. Nat. size. 

 Fig. 10. — Same. Basal view. Nat. size. 



Fig. 11. — Hippocampoides serratus gen. et sp. nov. Apical view. X 2. 

 Fig. 12. Same. Basal view. X 2. 

 Fie. 13. — Same. Lateral view. X 2. 




472 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [August. 



A POSSIBLE PARTIAL EXPLANATION OF THE VISIBILITY AND BRILLIANCY 



OF COMETS. 



BY DANIEL M. BARRINGER. 

 WITH AN ADDENDUM BY ELIHU THOMSON. 



From a careful study of the so-called "shale-ball" meteorites 

 described in my previous papers on the Meteor Crater of Arizona, I 

 am impelled to make a suggestion that their peculiar and more or 

 less uniform shape may give us a hint of at least a partial cause of 

 the brilliancy of the head of comets and the gradually fading visi- 

 bility of their tails. 



It should not be forgotten that these so-called "shale-ball" 

 meteorites have never before been described, and we would know 

 little of their original shape were it not that the several hundred 

 which have been found by us have been dug out of exceeding finely 

 pulverized silicious dust, so abundantly found with larger rock 

 fragments on the rim of the crater. This finely divided silicious 

 dust is due to the pulverization of a portion of the 1,000-foot white 

 or gray sandstone stratum during the passage through it of the 

 meteoric mass which, by its impact with the earth, as is now 

 proved, made the crater described in my previous papers. The 

 great mass of this exceedingly finely pulverized "silica," so-called, 

 most of which is so fine that it will easily pass a 100-mesh screen, is 

 practically impervious to water, hence these shale-ball meteorites 

 in many cases have retained their original shapes. As previously 

 stated by me, they have no sharp corners, but are, generally speaking, 

 either round, oval or pear shaped, and in fact closely resemble in 

 shape ordinary river gravel. In nearly all cases oxidation has 

 penetrated from the outer surface inward for varying distances, but 

 in most cases not sufficiently far to make it impossible to know what 

 the original shape of the iron mass was when it fell to the earth and 

 was imbedded in the outpouring from the crater, like flour from a 

 barrel, of the finely divided silica dust commingled with rock frag- 

 ments. In all of the many thousands of iron meteorites found around 

 the crater only one aerolite, or perhaps more accurately siderolite, 

 has been found. This was found by me on June 24, 1905. Inasmuch 

 as by far the greater part of this aerolite was stony in nature, it had 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17'. 



yielded hut very slightly to oxidation since it fell upon the earth. 

 It is interesting to note, however, that all of its edges were rounded 

 as if they had been subjected to abrasive action, but it. was n<>t. as 

 perfectly rounded or oval in shape as the great majority of tin- iron 

 meteorites. If it fell at the same time as the cluster which made the 

 crater, as I now think is probable, possibly this was due to the fact 

 that it. had been gathered up by the iron-headed comet in its passage 

 through space and had not been a member of the cluster for as long 

 a time as its iron companions. 



The abrasive action between these masses of meteoric material 

 composing the comet's head, even though it is less than any grinding 

 action that we can conceive of owing to the fact that the mass travels 

 through the ether of space, has, I would suggest, something to do with 

 the visibility of comets. Inconceivably gentle abrasive action may 

 be sufficient to wear off infinitesimal particles of matter, considering 

 the enormous periods of time available. If so, may it not be that 

 the attrition between the masses of meteoric material, for example 

 masses of iron, not only possibly causes a disturbance of the ether 

 where the grinding or milling action takes place, but literally fills 

 the space in and around the head of the comet with exceedingly fine 

 particles of cometary dust? May not these fine particles of matter, 

 possibly electrified, also form the so-called tail as they are swept 

 away from the main body of the comet travelling through space? 

 The explanation of the tail pointing away from the sun is somewhat 

 difficult on this theory, but the difficulty disappears if we can conceive 

 the particles to be so infinitesimally small and so wanting in weight 

 as to be affected by the light waves of the sun and to be driven by 

 them in a direction away from the sun. 



There can be no doubt that all the so-called " shale-ball'' iron 

 meteorites so far discovered by us in the material forming with 

 the upturned edges of the limestone and sandstone strata the rim 

 of the Arizona crater show evidence of what seems to have been 

 abrasive action. The inference is unavoidable that they have been 

 subjected, during perhaps billions of years, to such action, incon- 

 ceivably slight, it is true, but nevertheless sufficient to finally reduce 

 them to the shapes in which we find them. It is evident that the 

 abrasion was not produced by their passage through our air. May 

 they not be in fact "celestial cobblestones," and may not the milling 

 action when they rub against each other, even very gently, account, 

 in some way, not perfectly understood, for not only what we term the 

 brilliant head of a comet but tor its tail as well? 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [August, 



This is only a theory, but the inference seems to be justified. 

 The rounded shape common to this kind of meteorites is a fact 

 which must be explained, and the only reasonable explanation 

 is that it has been due to mutual abrasion. The largest mass of 

 meteoric iron of this description so far found by us weighed over 

 100* pounds. I have no doubt, however, that many of them com- 

 posing the cluster which formed the head of the very small comet, 

 which produced by its impact with the earth what we know as Meteor 

 Crater, were much larger. Evidence that many others fell upon 

 the earth around the crater is to be found in the fact that the plain 

 round about is strewn with what is locally known as " iron-shale," 

 certainly due to the decomposition of these "shale-balls," it being 

 merely oxidized meteoric iron. A great many thousand pieces of 

 this "iron-shale" have been found around the crater, on all sides of 

 it, but most abundantly to the N.N.E., the direction from which the 

 cluster is supposed by those of us who now recognize the true origin 

 of the crater to have approached the earth. This variety of meteoric 

 iron, as I have previously stated, decomposes very much more 

 rapidly than any other meteoric iron ever discovered, owing to 

 the fact that it contains appreciable quantities of chlorine. That 

 thousands of "shale-balls" were strewn about the crater a moment 

 after the impact there can now be no reasonable doubt. It is 

 a remarkable fact, however, that no piece of the so-called "iron- 

 shale" has ever been found which is not slightly curved, similarly 

 to the "iron-shale," found on the outside of the slowly decomposing 

 "shale-ball" meteorites which lie deeply imbedded in the silicious' 

 dust forming a great portion of the rim of the crater. Most of the 

 latter have iron centres and the "iron-shale" surrounding them are 

 merely the layers of iron oxide still adhering to the central iron mass. 

 When we compare the two, the pieces of "iron-shale" found on the 

 surrounding plain show conclusively by their shape that the so-called 

 "shale-ball" meteorites from which they were derived were originally 

 more or less globular in shape. 



Saturn's rings are now believed to be composed of meteorites, but 

 upon the theory which I have advanced there is possibly no milling 

 or grinding action taking place between them such as may take place 

 for some unknown reason in the head of a comet. I may, however, 

 easily be in error as to this. 



If the lunar craters and the Arizona crater have had a common origin, 

 as now seems very probable, there can be no doubt that our knowl- 

 edge of cosmogony has been greatly advanced by the discovery of the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



origin of the Arizona crater and that there is much stronger reason 

 now than ever before to believe in the general correctness of Chamber- 



lin's and Moulton's theory of the building up of planetary systems. 

 It is calculated that some 2,000,000 meteorites reach our atmosphere 

 every twenty-four hours, and it is highly probable that in the early 

 history of the earth it was abundantly bombarded by cometary bodies, 

 that are probably, after all, merely masses of meteoric material which 

 have gotten together and in some way not known to us have assumed 

 orbits of their own. It would seem, however, that most of them, 

 as well as most of the meteoric material originally forming the 

 nebula out of which our solar system has been built up, have long 

 since been gathered into the sun, its planetary bodies or the moons 

 revolving about them. Our moon, having been without an atmos- 

 phere for perhaps a great many millions, if not billions, of years, show- 

 evidences of some of the more recent accretions to its mass, outside of 

 the more or less steady rain of cosmic dust. Its numerous craters 

 probably merely represent the gathering in of cometary bodies or 

 clusters of meteorites, for they are apparently exactly similar to our 

 Arizona crater, except that most of them are vastly larger. 



If this theory of the building up of solar systems be correct, is it 

 not wonderful to reflect that when one holds in the hand one of these 

 pieces of meteoric material he is probably holding something older 

 than our sun, our own earth, or any of the planetary bodies which 

 with their moons revolve about the sun? That is to say, he is 

 literally holding, practically unchanged through countless eons of 

 time, a part of the nebula out of which our solar system was con- 

 structed and which nebula in turn probably represented the wreck- 

 age of a previously existing system. 



Addendum by Elihu Thomson. 



The following comments on the above paper were received by 

 Mr. Barringer from Prof. Elihu Thomson: 



I have your letter of June 14, enclosing a communication which 

 you are thinking of sending to The Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia. I think there is little question that the explanation put 

 forward in your paper as to the rounded shape of the shale-ball 

 meteorites is the true one. I have, in fact, often spoken of the 

 inevitable readjustments that may take place in a small cluster 

 revolving around the sun and the attrition between the parts as 

 accounting for the steady production of very finely divided material 

 32 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [August, 



driven away from the nucleus by the pressure of light. In fact, I 

 have talked of this very thing with the astronomers, and they have 

 not raised any objections to it. I take it that what happens is about 

 this — at least, this is in accordance with my idea of what happens: 



When the comet is far removed from the sun and consists, as it 

 probably almost always does, of a nucleus of fairly heavy pieces 

 surrounded by lighter masses, they are, on account of the cold of 

 space, at a very low temperature, and what little gravitational effect 

 is produced is just sufficient to prevent them being scattered. They 

 are free, at the far distance from the sun, from anything like tidal 

 action. The cluster might even be revolved without being distorted 

 by disturbance of the parts. Should they pass within range of the 

 gravitational effect of Jupiter and have the path slightly disturbed 

 thereby, there would necessarily be (by the slipping of the parts over 

 each other) an attrition or grinding action taking place, and this 

 would continue so- long as the body was within the range of the 

 disturbing planet. The same would be true of the cometary clusters 

 passing towards the sun and around it (making a so-called perihelion 

 passage), except that there would be some little difference. In this 

 case, the particles of fine material, the result of the grinding, and held 

 in the cluster, would now be free. The manner of this freeing can 

 easily be understood. The face of the mass of the cluster on the side 

 toward the sun would undergo a warming or heating process. This 

 would result in the evolution into the vacuous space of whatever vapors 

 or gases, however rare they might be (originally occluded in the face 

 of the masses of the cluster), especially from the warmed surfaces. 

 This would amount to a flowing of gas or evolution of gas on the side 

 toward the sun which would lift the dust particles away from the 

 mass, and the very fine particles would thus be free to be driven back 

 by the light pressure to form a tail. It is an old idea that during this 

 process if the sun were highly electrified electrical actions would 

 take place, electrical readjustments to the increasing actions of the 

 sun, but I think it doubtful whether the tail is much, or anything, 

 of an electrical nature, for the reason that the vacuous space in which 

 the tail moves is so high a vacuum that no conduction would be 

 possible. 



I am inclined to think that whatever actions of temperature or 

 electrical actions occur would be practically within the nucleus or 

 near it. The spectroscope shows that as the comet approaches 

 the sun gas is actually evolved; and the spectra of cyanogen and 

 carbon monoxide are common in comets, and possibly also hydro- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 477 



carbon spectra in some cases. The luminosity of the tail, which, 

 it must be borne in mind is extremely low, according to any way of 

 rating it, is. I think, amply accounted for by the greal depth of >i>ace 

 in which the fine matter exists and the solar light of high intensity 

 reaching this fine matter: a pure case of diffusion from fine particles. 

 As to cosmic dust not reflecting sunlight as does fine cometary dust, 

 the following explanation, it seems to me, is ample. We sec things 

 by contrast. Even if there was a slight luminosity in space, it would 

 -imply form a background for the comet's tail, which would be more 

 luminous and more dense in dust. The astronomers have long sus- 

 pected a very thin veil of dust in the sky, of dust under illumination* 

 The sky is not, in fact, absolutely black. It is black by comparison. 

 Of course, it cannot be expected that ordinary meteorites should 

 ever be seen in the sunlight. They are too small or too far apart. 

 Only when they reach a considerable size do they produce any 

 impression as single spots of light. Witness the asteroids or the 

 little planet Eros, which probably is miles in diameter and yet is 

 difficult to detect. 



My idea is that the continual readjustment of the position and 

 relation of the parts within a small cluster, or even within a large 

 cluster forming a large comet, will account for practically all that 

 occurs in the head of the comet and in the tail. 



This tail will always point away from the sun. It will curve 

 backwards, for although the particles move in a straight line from 

 the sun, it will curve backwards owing to the progress of the nucleus 

 around the sun. The tail will continue to be formed so long as the 

 disturbing actions occur, and it will fade away as the comet gets so 

 far from the sun as not to be distorted or disturbed. If the comet 

 is not otherwise lost, this action will continue on from the action of 

 the sun with a constant reduction of mass and the final diffusion of 

 the material composing the comet. 



Your statement in relation to the aerolite of a stony nature 

 which you found is very interesting to me, as I had not heard 

 that you had found any such stony meteor. It is quite easy, how- 

 ever, it seems to me, to account for it as a survival of perhaps 

 many others present in the cluster. The stony meteorites will 

 naturally be sifted out from the iron meteorites in the flight of a 

 meteor through our atmosphere. They would not only be crushed 

 by air pressure on their relatively greater area per unit of mass, but 

 on account of their lower specific gravity they would not have the 

 ability by momentum to force their way as far. Their relatively 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [August, 



low momentum and greater air resistance in proportion to their mass 

 would make them early losers in the race, while the air pressure 

 encountered would usually smash them into small pieces. 



I think it quite probable that the stony matter of the earth is merely 

 an outer layer over an iron centre, and in the smash up of any body 

 due to partial collisions or actual collisions the stony matters must 

 be dissipated, as well as the iron masses, to be gathered up again 

 by the approach near to a large gravitating body like a planet or a 

 sun. 



Your expression of "celestial cobblestones" is very expressive and 

 pertinent to the case of the shale-ball masses, and your observation 

 that pieces of apparently broken-up shale-balls are curved indicates 

 a similar origin for all of them. The flight of a cluster of small and 

 large meteoric masses, more or less rounded through our air, would 

 naturally be a sifting-out process, as the smaller bodies would lag 

 behind in the flight. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



THE NERVOUS SYSTEM OF CREPIDULA. ADUNCA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT. 



BY HAROLD HEATH. 



The genus Crepiduh in the vicinity of Monterey Bay, California, 

 is abundantly represented by the members of two species, C. adunca 

 and C. nivea. In each case the young are retained in capsules within 

 the mantle cavity of the parent, and are liberated when they have 

 attained the form of the adult and are in possession of all the definitive 

 organs with the exception of those belonging to the reproductive 

 system. It is accordingly readily possible to secure extensive series 

 of embryos and to follow the course of development from the ovum 

 to the adult. The embryology of several species of this genus has 

 been studied in great detail by Conklin ('97), 1 and as a result it is 

 clearly established that they all pursue essentially the same develop- 

 mental path until they reach the veliger stage or a corresponding 

 point where a free-swimming larva is lacking. Beyond this point 

 nothing is known. 



In connection with a comparative study of the nervous system of 

 several families of mollusks, I have examined adults of the two 

 above-mentioned species of Crepiduh. with considerable care and 

 have traced its development in C. adunca. In view of the fact that 

 Paludina vivipara as worked out by Erlanger ('92) 2 is the only other 

 gastropod whose development in this respect is known, the results 

 possess an enhanced degree of interest. 



The central nervous system of the adult C. adunca is located in 

 the base of the neck, in a spongy mass of connective tissue, placed 

 between the pedal musculature and the overlying mantle cavity. 

 It conforms to the highly centralized type characteristic of the 

 monotocardia generally, with cerebral, pleural and pedal ganglia 

 closely appressed. In several instances, especially in half-grown 

 individuals, the line of demarcation between the cerebral and pleural 

 ganglia is comparatively slight; on the other hand, the pedal ganglia 

 are invariably sharply defined. All are globular bodies of essentially 

 the same size and, as indicated previously, are united by compara- 

 tively short commissures and connectives. 



1 The Embryology of Crepidula, ./nun*. Morph., Vol. 13. 1897 



2 Zur Entwickhm^ von Paludina vivipara, Morph. Jahrb., Vol. 17. l v 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



Of the more peripheral portions of the nervous system the buccal 

 ganglia are situated in the head region slightly attached to the 

 dorsal face of the radular musculature. From the commissure 

 uniting them two delicate nerves are given off, which course ven- 

 trally but rapidly become lost to view among the surrounding muscle 

 bundles. The connectives to the cerebral ganglia arise from the 

 forward borders of each buccal ganglion, extend laterally and ante- 

 riorly over the buccal musculature for a short distance, whereupon 

 they pass between some of the bundles of radular muscles to the 

 ventral side of the head. In this position, at each side of the under 

 surface of the radula, they pursue a course posteriorly to the cerebral 

 ganglia. Immediately after reaching the ventral surface of the 

 head they are united by a delicate commissure. 



Each cerebral ganglion gives rise anteriorly to one or two nerves, 

 in addition to the buccal connective, which innervate the head. 

 Where one nerve appears it soon divides into an outer and inner 

 branch destined to supply the tentacle and lips, respectively. The 

 relatively strong tentacle nerve gives off a short, stout nerve to the 

 eye and, after dividing, extends far towards the tip of the tentacle. 

 The inner, or lip nerve, passes by a fairly direct path to the dorsal 

 side of the head, and ultimately breaks up in the tissue about the 

 mouth. 



The pedal ganglia usually develop four pairs of nerves. The 

 most anterior, springing from the forward border of the ganglion, 

 extends through the pedal musculature to the forward section of the 

 foot, where each branches repeatedly and becomes lost among the 

 muscle fibres. Two other pairs extend ventrally and likewise soon 

 disappear in the compact pedal musculature. In addition to these 

 three pairs, each pedal ganglion gives off from its antero-dorsal 

 surface another nerve destined to supply the base of the neck. On 

 the left side of the body the bundle is comparatively slender and 

 soon becomes lost to view at the junction of the head and mantle. 

 On the right side the corresponding branch has the same size and 

 apparent distribution in lately hatched individuals, but at a later 

 period it becomes greatly enlarged and supplies the penis, which 

 arises relatively late in life. It may be added that the pedal 

 ganglia are united by two commissures, the usual heavy one and 

 another, much more delicate, posterior to it. 



The elements of the visceral loop comprise three clearly denned 

 ganglia, the sub-intestinal, the supra-intestinal and the visceral. 

 The first named is a globular body of approximately the same size 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



as the overh iug right pleural ganglion, to which it is attached by a 

 short connective, thus producing a dextral zygoneury, while a 

 somewhat larger connective, passing ventral to the pharynx, unites 

 it with the left pleural ganglion. The supra-intestinal ganglion is 

 a fusiform mass united by a short connective to the right pleural. 

 The visceral ganglion, in contact with the ventral floor of the mantle 

 cavity on the right side of the body, is joined by connectives passing 



Fig. 1. — Dorsal view'of the nervous system <>( Crepidula adunca. The pedal 

 nerves are represented by broken lines; the right posterior pedal nerve is 

 omitted, p., penis; t., testis. 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Sept., 



dorsal to the oesophagus and to the right side of the stomach and 

 the adjacent section of the intestine. The visceral connective on 

 the left develops a small nerve, usually associated with a ganglionic 

 enlargement, which has been traced for a. short distance beneath 

 the floor of the mantle cavity. The visceral ganglion itself also 

 gives rise to a branch which passes to the wall of the kidney, 

 where it disappears from view. 



In this species a well-defined marginal mantle nerve, or Mantel- 

 randnerv, is present with many of the essential features of what has 

 been found by Willcox ('98) 3 to exist in Acmcea fragilis. In the 

 present instance it is loosely attached to the walls of the marginal 

 mantle sinus, and throughout its course develops numerous delicate 

 branches, which attach to the overlying epithelium or the deeper- 

 seated gland cells. On the right side of the body this marginal 

 nerve is united by two connectives with the pleural ganglion, 

 and, judging from sections, with the sub-intestinal ganglion as well. 

 Of these connectives the anterior is much the heavier, and skirting 

 the floor of the mantle cavity can be followed forward, where it 

 divides into a short, lateral branch uniting with the marginal nerve 

 coming up from the posterior three-fourths of the body, and a slightly 

 more dorsal and relatively larger nerve coursing about the base 

 of the marginal mantle thickening. In other words, the marginal 

 mantle nerve of the posterior part of the body can be traced as far 

 forward as the anterior level of the head in contracted specimens. 

 It actually may continue entirely around the body, but anteriorly 

 it becomes very delicate and finally disappears among the masses 

 of gland cells in the free border of the mantle. However, the heavy 

 connective from the right pleural ganglion attaches to it before its 

 disappearance, and on the other hand extends around the mantle 

 edge in front, where it meets the corresponding nerve from the left 

 pleural ganglion, thus completing the circular mantle nerve, though, 

 as noted before, this anterior section is at a slightly greater distance 

 from the mantle border. The smaller, posterior connective appears 

 to be more largely a product of the sub-intestinal ganglion, and, 

 like the two smaller connectives of the left side, it extends laterally 

 and posteriorly through the pedal musculature to the mantle border. 

 These two smaller connectives of the left side as well as another of 

 much larger caliber arise from the pleural ganglion. The anterior 

 one pursues a course similar to its counterpart on the right and is 



3 Zur Anatomie von Acmsea fragilis, Jenaische Zeitschr.f. Naturw., Bd. 32, 1898. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



inserted in practically the same fashion with the marginal mantle 

 nerve. 



The osphradial ganglion is a well-defined elongated body situated 

 far forward on the left side of the mantle cavity. The nerve leaving 

 its posterior border pursues a parallel course with the anterior 

 mantle ring connective and enters the supra-intestinal ganglion. 

 Certain species of the genus Crepidula are reported. 4 to po-~e-< a 

 sinistral zygoneury wherein the supra-intestinal ganglion is united 

 to the pleural of the same side. I have found no evidence of its 

 existence in C. arfunca. 



Turning now to the development of the nervous system, we find 

 that shortly after the first appearance of the foot the ectodermal 

 cells immediately in front of the lateral angles of the mouth opening 

 commence to elongate, and each area rapidly differentiates into a 

 well-defined, probably sensory ridge and the tentacle. Associated 

 with these external developments there is a migration of ectodermal 

 cells from the region of the ridge and tentacle, slight at first, but 

 rapidly increasing, and finally ending, if one can rely on sections, 

 at the time when pigment first makes its appearance in the eye. 

 These migrant cells form the cerebral ganglia, more or less rounded 

 at first, and largely obscured by the heavily staining overlying 

 ectoderm. 



Synchronous with the development of the cerebral ganglia the 

 pedal ganglia arise. With the exception of a median, ciliated, slender, 

 wedge-like area, the base facing anteriorly, the cells of the foot likewise 

 become elongated, whereupon cells migrate inwards, forming two 

 large, diffuse masses in contact posteriorly where the commissure 

 subsequently arises. The four ganglionic bodies thus existing at 

 this time appear to be the product solely of migrating elements, 

 since sections give no indication of cell division after the cells have 

 left the ectodermal layer. The same is also true of all the other 

 ganglia now to be considered. 



In whole mounts and in sections the cells along the posterior 

 border of each cerebral ganglion can be seen in the late stages of its 

 development to assume an elongated form and to develop fibres 

 which extend posteriorly. In some instances the strands thus 

 produced form two distinct bundles at the outset, one of which 

 passes into the pedal ganglion, while the other at a slightly later 

 stage joins with the pleural. In other instances one bundle first 



4 Lang's Lehrbuch, p. 213. 




484 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Sept., 



-appears and subsequently divides to form the cerebro-pedal and 

 cerebro-pleural connectives. During this time the cells of the 

 anterior margin of each cerebral ganglion likewise elongate and 

 rapidly form fibres which extend across the midline and thus form 

 the cerebral commissure. 



The buccal are the only ganglia which do not directly arise from 

 ■cells migrating from the overlying ectoderm; on the other hand, 



Pig. 2. — Half -developed embryo of Crepidula adunca, showing the central nervous 

 system and the visceral loop, c, cerebral ganglion and eye; i., intestine; 

 m., mantle cavity; o., osphradial ganglion; p., pleural ganglion; pe., 

 pedal ganglion and otocyst; s., supra-intestinal ganglion; st., sub-intestinal 

 ganglion; v., visceral ganglion. 



they give clear evidence of being products of the cerebral ganglia. 

 At about the same time that the cerebral commissure is forming cells 

 can be seen extending toward the midline from the inner border of 

 each cerebral ganglion. These gradually form an accumulation on 

 •each side of the radular invagination, and in some instances com- 

 pletely invest the radular sac. In the stage represented by fig. 2 

 the ganglia are usually differentiated, though the commissure and 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. \S~> 



the connectives may continue to contain cells until a relatively late 

 stage in the development of the embryo. 



After the cerebral ganglia have developed, yet before they havi 

 become fashioned into their final form, the pleural ganglia and the 

 elements of the visceral loop put in their final appearance. Each 

 pleural ganglion is the product of cells migrating from the adjacent 

 ectoderm and arises at the sides of the body immediately posterior 

 and slightly dorsal to the cerebral ganglion. In most instances it is 

 a fairly sharply defined though sheet-like structure, yet it may 

 originate in the form of several distinct masses whose anastomosing 

 fibres form a distinct plexus before they become fused into a single 

 mass. 



The ganglia of the visceral loop arise simultaneously. The sub- 

 intestinal occupies a position on the right side of the body at the 

 intersection of the neck and visceral mass; the supra-intestinal lies 

 approximately in the midline at the junction of the neck and visceral 

 mass; while the visceral ganglion is somewhat to the right of the 

 midline and anterior to the terminal section of the intestine. Even 

 while these ganglia are in process of formation delicate fibrils from 

 some of the component, bipolar cells push out between the yolk 

 granules and increasing in number ultimately form the connectives 

 of the visceral loop. The osphradial ganglion rapidly becomes 

 imbedded in the margin of the mantle, and, as in the adult, is united 

 by a connective with the supra-intestinal ganglion. In many 

 instances a delicate connective unites the sub- and supra-intestinal 

 ganglia; no trace of it has been found to exist in adult specimens. 

 The right-sided zygoneurous condition, the union of the pleural and 

 the sub-intestinal ganglion, characteristic of the adult appears to put 

 in an appearance shortly before the embryo escapes from the parent. 



At the time of hatching there are traces of a plexus extending 

 about the margin of the mantle, but it is very dim and indistinct. 

 When it becomes clearly defined throughout and capable of being 

 traced it has all of the essential features of the marginal mantle 

 nerve of the adult. 



With the increased growth of the mantle and the development of 

 an extensive mantle cavity (beyond the stage represented in text 

 fig. 2) the visceral mass between the mantle margin and the neck 

 becomes completely covered. Furthermore, the absorption of the 

 included yolk creates a more flattened condition of the embryo, 

 which ultimately brings the nervous system into the position charac- 

 teristic of the adult. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



new or little-known crane-flies from the united states and 

 canada: tipulidje, ptychopteridje, diptera. part 3. 



by charles p. alexander. 

 Introduction. 



In this paper, the author has undertaken a review of the Nearctic 

 species of the difficult Eriopterine genus, Gonomyia, and has supplied 

 figures of the wings and hypopygia of the various species. The 

 remainder of the paper is in the nature of a continuation of the first 

 two papers under this title. 1 In order to complete the data in some 

 sections of the family, especially the genus Geranomyia, it has been 

 deemed advisable to add a few extra-limital species, most of these 

 being Antillean or Middle American forms whose northward range 

 is still not well understood. 



Description of New or Little-known Species. 



Family TIPULIDiE. 



Subfamily LIMNOBIN.E. 



Tribe Limnobini. 



GERANOMYIA Haliday. 



Geranomyia Haliday; Entomologists Magazine, vol. 1, p. 154 (1833). 



Geranomyia canadensis Westwood. (Plate XXV, fig. 1.) 



Limnobiorhynchus canadensis Westwood; Annales Societe Entomologique 

 de France, p. 683 (1835). 



A wide-ranging species in the central and eastern United States, 

 from New Brunswick and the Hudsons Bay region, south to Georgia 

 and Florida, west to Michigan, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee and 

 Texas. Studies by Knab 2 and others show this fly to feed on nectar 

 of Composite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago, Aster, Silphium, Rud- 

 beckia, Verbesina, Cacalia, etc.) in the late afternoon and evening. 

 A male from Brownsville, Texas, in May (C. H. T. Townsend). 



1 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 October, 1914, pp. 579-606. 



Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 September, 1915, pp. 458-514. 



2 The Feeding Habits of Geranomyia: Proceedings of the Entomological Society 

 of Washington, vol. 12, pp. 61-65 (1910). 




191G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



Geranomyia guatemalensis sp. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Related to canadensis West wood; head gray with a narrow median 

 line; thorax yellowish brown with three indistinct stripes; femora 

 with a brownish subterminal annul us; abdominal tergites ringed 

 brown and yellowish. 



Male. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 6.5 mm.; wing, (i.7 mm.; 

 rostrum, 4 mm. 



Female. — Length as above, 6.8 mm.; wing, 8 mm.; rostrum, 4.1 

 mm. 



Rostrum elongate, brown, more darkened toward the apex. 

 Antennae rather short, black, the scape dark brown; flagellar seg- 

 ments rounded-oval. Head gray with a delicate, more or less 

 distinct, median line. 



Thoracic dorsum yellowish brown, the praescutum with three 

 broad, though rather indistinct, brown stripes, the middle stripe 

 broad behind, not attaining the suture; scutal lobes brown, median 

 area of the scutum and the scutellum pale yellow; post not um pale 

 whitish gray, narrowly blackened medially. Pleura dull brownish 

 yellow. Halteres brownish yellow, the knobs darker. Legs with 

 the coxa? brownish yellow; trochanters yellow; femora light brown 

 with a broad, subterminal, brown annulus, the extreme tip paler; 

 tibiae light brownish, the tips narrowly dark brown; tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings nearly hyaline; stigma distinct, oval, dark browm. Venation: 

 Be long, extending to about two-fifths the length of the sector; 

 Rs elongate, almost straight. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, narrowly margined caudally and 

 laterally with dull yellow; basal sternites dull yellowish, more brown 

 on the intermediate segments. Male hypopygium with the penis- 

 guard very long and prominent. 



Habitat. — Guatemala. 



Holotype, cf, Aguna, Guatemala; altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic. 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species differs from the Nearctic G. canadensis in the clear 

 gray head, in the subterminal brown femoral ring, not with a black 

 tip as in canadensis, the long penis-guard, etc. 



Geranomyia knabiana sp. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Related to canadensis Westwood; rostrum elongate, black; head 

 dark brown; thorax brownish yellow, the praescutum with a broad 

 median stripe; femora with an indistinct brown ring before the tip; 

 wings with subcosta very long. 




488 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, about 4.2 mm.; wing, 

 5 mm.; rostrum, about 2.8 mm. 



Rostrum elongate, dark brownish black. Antennae dark brown, 

 moderately elongated. Head dark brown with a narrow median 

 black line; head constricted behind. 



Mesonotal prsescutum brownish yellow, brighter in front, with a 

 very broad median stripe that is pale anteriorly, dark brown behind; 

 in the Aguna paratype the prsescutum is scarcely marked at all, in 

 the allotype the stripe is distinct for its entire length; lateral stripes 

 not clear; scutum brownish yellow medially, the lobes dark brown; 

 scutellum pale dirty yellow; postnotum brown. Pleura brownish 

 yellow. Halteres short, dark brown, the stem more yellowish. 

 Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora yellowish 

 brown with a very indistinct brownish subapical annulus; tibiae 

 dull yellow, darkening into brown at the tip; tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings hyaline, the stigma oval, brown; veins dark brown. Venation: 

 Sc very long, extending to two-thirds the length of the sector; Sc 2 

 at the tip of Sci) Rs moderately long, a little over two times the 

 basal deflection of R i+i . 



Abdominal tergites brown; sternites yellow, the basal segments a 

 little darker. 



Habitat. — Central America. 



Holotype, 9 , Canal Zone, Panama (A. H. Jennings). 



Allotype, cf , Aguna, Guatemala, altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen). 



Paratypes, 9 , with the allotype; 9 , Antigua, Guatemala, Septem- 

 ber, 1902 (Dr. G. Eisen). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Similar to G. canadensis, but smaller, the femora without a black 

 tip, the praescutal pattern more distinct behind, etc. 



This interesting little species is dedicated to Frederick Knab, custo- 

 dian of theDiptera in the United States National Museum, as an appre- 

 ciation of his studies on the feeding habits of this genus of crane-flies. 



Geranomyia distincta Doane. (Plate XXV, fig. 2.) 



Geranomyia distincta Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological 

 Society, vol. 8, p. 186 (1900). 



This fly will probably be found to have a wide range throughout 

 the central and eastern United States, it being now known from 

 Connecticut and New Jersey to Texas. 

 Geranomyia vanduzeei sp. n. 



Related to distincta Doane; rostrum moderate in length; head pale 

 gray; thorax reddish brown without stripes; wings clear without a 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



distinct stigmal spot; femora dark brown before the tip, tibiae black 

 at the tip. 



Mule. — Length, excluding the rostrum, about 6.5 mm.; wing, 

 6.6 mm.; rostrum, about 2.5 nun. 



Female. — Length as above, about 5 mm.; wing, 6 mm.; rostrum, 

 about 1.8 mm. 



Rostrum moderate in length, brownish yellow, darker towards 

 the tip. Antemue with the first segment brownish yellow, the 

 remainder of the antenna? dark brownish black; flagellar segments 

 short-oval. Head light gray, more yellowish behind. 



Thorax reddish brown without distinct stripes or markings of any 

 kind, the scutellum a little more yellow. Pleura pale reddish brown 

 with a very sparse grayish bloom. Halteres short, pale yellow, the 

 knobs a little darker. Legs with the coxae reddish; trochanters dull 

 yellow; femora dull yellow with a broad brownish annulus 

 immediately before the tip; tibiae brownish yellow, the extreme tip 

 black; tarsi yellowish brown, the apical segments darker. Wings 

 nearly hyaline; stigma indistinct; veins dark brown, C, Sc and Cu 

 a little more yellowish. Venation: Sc long, extending over one-half 

 the length of the radial sector. 



Abdominal tergites dull yellow with a narrow, poorly indicated, 

 brown sublateral line; sternites yellowish, on the terminal segments 

 more reddish. 



The female is quite similar to the male,, but smaller with a still 

 shorter rostrum that is not so noticeably pallid basally; abdominal 

 tergites brown, the last tergite more yellowish. 



Habitat. — Southeastern United States. 



Holotype, cf, Braidentown, Manatee County, Florida, March 

 (M. C. VanDuzee). 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 2 d 1 9 . 



The type is in the collection of Mr. Van Duzee, to whom the 

 species is respectfully dedicated. 



In its unmarked thorax this species runs closest to G. distincta 

 which has a longer rostrum and lacks the dark markings on the 

 femora and the black apices to the tibiae. 



Geranomyia intermedia Walker. (Plate XXV, fig. 3.) 



Limnobia intermedia Walker; List Diptera British Museum, vol. 1, p. 47 

 (1848). 



The following specimens are at hand: 



A 9 , Kingston, Jamaica, February 10, 1903 (M. Grabham), a 9 T 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



same locality and collector, April 9, 1903; a cf, 9, Havana, Cuba, 

 April, 1900 (J. R. Taylor). The species may be looked for in the 

 Miami section of Florida. 



The ground-color of the thorax is yellowish, the stripes usually 

 indistinct, somewhat plumbeous, the middle stripe narrowly divided. 

 The banded abdomen offers an easy recognition character. 



Geranomyia di versa Osten Sacken. (Plate XXV, fig. 4). 



Geranomyia diversa Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 207 (1859). 



Northeastern and central United States, ranging from Maine to 

 Virginia, west to Arkansas. 



At "The Rocks" wharf on the James River, Virginia, while a 

 member of the second trip of the "Ecphora, " under Prof. Gilbert D. 

 Harris, of Cornell University, in quest of Tertiary fossils, I found this 

 species in large numbers resting on the dripping, water-spattered 

 cliffs of the Yorktown (upper Miocene) formations. On July 2, 

 1915, they occurred in large numbers, together with Dicranomyia 

 badia Walker. Many were found to be heavily infested with a 

 species of Trombidium, while others, in large numbers, were found 

 beaten into the mud by being struck by the heavy particles of water 

 dripping from above. 



In the north (Ithaca, New York) they occur in mid-summer 

 (August) on rich vegetation along streams. The adult flies feed on 

 various Composite flowers (Solidago, Erigeron) and also on Daucus 

 (Umbellif erse) . 



A 9 specimen, Little Rock, Arkansas, July 11, 1904 (H. S. Barber). 

 Geranomyia domingensis sp- n. (Extra-limital.) 



Related to cinereinota Alexander; rostrum short; head black, 

 enclosing a silvery triangle; prsescutum brownish gray with a broad 

 blackish median line; wings nearly hyaline, stigma indistinct; vein 

 Sc moderate in length. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, about 5.2 mm.; wing, 

 5.5 mm.; rostrum, about 1.6 mm. 



Rostrum very short, black, palpi biarticulate, black. Antennse 

 with the first segment black; segment two dark brown; flagellum 

 brownish black with a whitish pubescence; first scapal segment 

 elongated; second segment subglobular; flagellar segments oval. 

 Head velvety-black, enclosing a large silvery triangle with its point 

 directed cephalad. 



Mesontal prsescutum brownish gray with a broad blackish median 

 line; lateral stripes less distinct, broad, brownish; scutum brown, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



the lobes scarcely darker than the median area; scutellum pallid; 

 postnotum plumbeous brown with a sparse grayish bloom. Pleura 

 reddish yellow with a light gray bloom. Halteres yellow, the kno 

 brown. Legs with the coxa 1 and trochanters dull yellow; femora 

 uniform light brown; tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Wings nearly 

 hyaline; stigma indistinct; veins dark brown. Venation: Sc mod- 

 erate in length, extending to about one-fourth the length of the. 

 sector; R* elongate, somewhat arcuated at its origin; cross-vein 

 r at the tip of Ri] basal deflection of R i+i more than two times the 

 length of the r-m cross-vein; cell 1st M% elongated, the cell being 

 longer than vein Cui beyond it, though shorter than vein M, +2 

 beyond it; basal deflection of Cuj just before the fork of .1/. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the sternites rather light yellow. 



Habitat. — Santo Domingo. 



Holotype, 9 , San Francisco Mountains, Santo Domingo, Septem- 

 ber, 1905 (Aug. Busck). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species is closely related to G. cinereinota in its short rostrum, 

 conspicuous black thoracic stripe, uniform femora, etc. ; it is a smaller 

 fly, with the head black and silvery, without the clear gray coloration 

 of the praescutum, the stigma indistinct and the flagellar segment s 

 much shorter and more globular than in the corresponding sex of 

 cinereinota. 



Geranomyia tibialis Loew. (Plate XXV, fig. 5.) 



Aporosa tibialis Loew; Linnaea Entomologica, vol. 5, p. 397 (1851). 



A wide-ranging species throughout the Antilles and southward 

 over a large portion of South and Central America. The following 

 unrecorded stations are before me, representing the Loew collections 

 in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, the American Museum and 

 the United States National Museum: 



Cuba, part of the Loew collection in the M. C. Z., bearing the label 

 "rufescens" in Osten Sacken's writing, but certainly not that species 

 because of the black and enlarged apices of the anterior tibia?; a o" , 

 Baracoa, September, 1901 (Aug. Busck). 



Santo Domingo, several o* 9, Sanchez, June 7-12, 1915; d\ San 

 Francisco Mountains, September, 1905 (Aug. Busck). 



Porto Rico, 9 , Aguadilla, January, 1899. 



Montserrat, a 9, Plymouth (F. Driver). 



Canal Zone, a 9 (A. H. Jennings). 



The species may be looked for in the Miami (Dade County) 

 section of Florida. 

 33 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander. (Plate XXV, fig. 6.) 



Geranomyia lachrymalis Alexander; Transactions of the American Ento- 

 mological Society, vol. 42, pp. 9, 10 (1916). 



The following additional distributional records: 

 Mexico, Cordoba, April 1, 1908 (Knab). 

 Guatemala, Escuintla, November 12, 1902 (Eisen). 

 Costa Rica, Cache, March 3, 1910 (Calvert). 

 Canal Zone, Tabernilla (Busck). 



Geranomyia certhia sp. n. (Extra-limital). 



Rostrum elongate; head dark gray; prsescutum yellow with three 

 dark brown stripes ; legs with the femora and tibiae tipped with dark 

 brown; wings hyaline with a prominent oval stigma; cord and outer 

 end of cell 1st M 2 seamed with pale brown; abdomen brown with 

 two black longitudinal dorsal stripes. 



Male. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 6 mm.; wing, 7 mm.; 

 rostrum, about 5 mm. 



Female. — Length as above, 6.5 mm.; wing, 8.4 mm.; rostrum, about 

 5 mm. 



Rostrum dark brownish black, long and slender, especially toward 

 the tip. Antennas short, black. Head gray, brighter just behind 

 the antennas; vertex dark gray with an impressed black line that is 

 narrowed behind; occiput suffused with dull yellow. 



Mesonotal prsescutum pale buff-yellow with three broad, dark 

 brown stripes, the median one double, ending just before the suture; 

 lateral stripes shorter, crossing the suture and suffusing the scutal 

 lobes; remainder of the scutum buff -yellow; scutellum buff -yellow, 

 a little obscured on either side; postnotum light plumbeous brown 

 with a very delicate impressed median line. Pleura yellow with a 

 sparse pale gray bloom. Halteres yellow, the knobs darker brown. 

 Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora brownish 

 yellow, the tips broadly dark brown; tibiae light brown, the tips 

 narrowly dark brownish black; tarsi brown. Wings hyaline, the 

 stigma prominent, oval, dark brown; cord and outer end of cell 

 1st M 2 narrowly seamed with pale brown; apex of the wing a little 

 darkened; veins dark brown. Venation: Sc long, ending about 

 opposite mid-length of the sector. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the segments paler, yellowish, 

 laterally, more blackish sublaterally, forming two dorsal black lines 

 down the abdomen; sternites brownish yellow. 



Habitat. — Guatemala. 



Holotype, cf, Antigua, Guatemala, September, 1902 (Dr. G. Eisen). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 3 cf 9 . 



Type in the collection of the United States Nal ional Museum. 



This well-marked species suggests (7. endcrlcuu Alexander {annulate 

 Enderlein) in its large size and long rostrum, but differs in the wing- 

 pattern, the darker apices to the femora and tibiae and the two 

 longitudinal black hands on the abdomen, not annulated as in thai 

 species. 



Geranomyia virescens I.oew. 



Aporosa uirescens Loew; Linnaea Entomologica, vol. ">, p. 398 (1851 . 



The following records for this fly admitting it to the United States 

 fauna: 



Biscayne Bay, Dade County, Florida (Mrs. Slosson). 



Miami, Dade County, Florida (Knab), December 24, 1914, feeding 

 on the blossoms of Persea (Lauracece). 



Geranomyia rostrata Say. (Plate XXV, fig. 7.) 



Limnobia rostrata Say; Journal Academy Natural Sciences Philadelphia, 

 vol. 3, p. 22 (1823). 



This species ranges over the eastern United States and Canada, 

 from Maine and Canada to Florida, west to Illinois and Louisiana. 

 What has been determined as this species ranges over the Antilles 

 and the records for the Greater Antilles, at least, are probably 

 correct. Knab's records show this species to feed on various Com- 

 posite flowers (Eupatorium, Solidago and Helianthus). 



Geranomyia ibis sp. n. 



Related to insignis Loew; head gray with two black lines; praescu- 

 tum grayish with three narrow black lines; pleura gray; femora 

 yellowish apically with a subterminal browm annulus; wings nearly 

 hyaline wdth a sparse darker pattern. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 7 mm.; wing, 7.3 mm.; 

 rostrum, 2.3 mm. 



Rostrum rather short, black. Antennae black, the flagellar seg- 

 ments short-oval. Head gray with two linear, parallel, black marks 

 extending from the vertex to the occiput. 



Pronotum brownish gray, shiny black on the dorso-median line. 

 Mesonotal praescutum pale reddish gray, with three very narrow 

 black stripes, the median stripe only a little broader than the lateral 

 stripes, narrowed caudally and not attaining the suture; lateral 

 stripes long, slightly <•< mvergent and more browmish behind, crossing 

 the suture and occupying the proximal edge of the scuta! lobes; 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [Oct., 



scutum, scutellum and postnotum reddish gray. Pleura uniform 

 gray. Halteres short, yellow, the knobs brown. Legs with the 

 coxse brownish yellow; trochanters yellow; femora brown, the basal 

 and apical quarters yellowish, a rather broad, brown subterminal 

 ring; tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Wings almost hyaline, the costal 

 area pale yellow; stigma rounded, pale brown; a darker brown spot 

 at the tip of Sc and at the origin of Rs; a very indistinct seam along 

 the cord. Venation (Plate XXV, fig. 8) : Sc rather long, ending at 

 about one-third the length of the sector. 



Abdominal tergites brown, the sternites more yellowish. 



Habitat. — South-central United States. 



Holotype, 9 , Hot Springs, Arkansas, June 26, 1904 (H. S. Barber). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Differs from G. insignis Loew (Plate XXV, fig. 9) in the more 

 grayish ground-color of the praescutum with still narrower stripes, 

 the clear gray pleura and the paler wing-pattern; differs from 

 plumbeipleura Alexander in the very narrow praescutal stripes, these 

 stripes not as wide as the interspaces, the pale scutal lobes and the 

 pale wing-pattern; from numenius Alexander it differs in the much 

 shorter rostrum. 

 Geranomyia costaricensis sp. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Related to insignis Loew; mesonotal praescutum with two approxi- 

 mated dorsal brown stripes; pleura yellow with a large brown mark 

 on the mesopleurites; femora with the apex broadly yellow, with a 

 narrow subterminal ring; wings subhy aline with four dark brown 

 subcostal marks and paler seams to the veins. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 8 mm.; wing, 7.8 mm.; 

 rostrum, about 3.3 mm. 



Rostrum moderately elongated, dark brownish black. Antennae 

 with the first segment black with a sparse grayish bloom; second 

 segment brownish, paler toward the tip; flagellar segments black, 

 elongate-oval. Head brownish gray. 



Mesonotal prsescutum clear light yellow with two broad reddish 

 brown dorsal stripes, one on either side of the very narrow middle 

 line, these stripes barely attaining the suture; lateral margin of the 

 sclerite brown, widely separated from the median stripes; scutum 

 with the median area broadly yellowish white, the lobes brown; 

 scutellum pale; postnotum yellowish brown. Pleura dull yellow, 

 a large brown blotch on the mesopleurites and a similar one on the 

 lateral portions of the postnotum. Halteres yellow, the knobs 

 brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light yellow; femora 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



brownish yellow, the apices broadly light yellow with a dark brown 

 subterminal ring, this ring about one-half the extent of the pale tip; 

 tibia' yellowish brown; tarsi brown. Wings with a pale grayish 

 suffusion, with brown clouds and seams as follows: larger ones at 

 the stigma, at t be t ip of Sc and origin of Rs, midlength of the subcostal 

 cell and at the base of this cell; paler brown clouds at the tips of 

 most of the veins, the cross-veins and deflections seamed with this 

 same color. Venation: Sc long, extending to about one-third the 

 length of the sector; basal deflection of R i+i very long, the cross-vein 

 r-m correspondingly reduced. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the segments a little brighter at 

 their bases; sternites dull yellow. 



Habitat. — Costa Rica. 



Holotype, 9, Cartago, Costa Rica, September 17, 1909 (P. P. 

 Calvert). 



Type in the collection of the American Entomological Society. 



This species differs from all the members of the insignis group 

 (insignis, lineata, numenius, plumbeipleura, ibis, et al.) in the peculiar 

 pattern of the prseseutum. 

 Geranomyia subinsignis sp. n. (Extra-Iimital.) 



Related to insignis Loew; thorax grayish with three broad dark 

 brown stripes; femora with a broad subterminal brown annulus; 

 wings grayish with extensive brown markings. 



Female. — Length, excluding the rostrum, 5.7-0 mm.; wing, 0.4 

 mm.; rostrum, about 2.2-2.5 mm. 



Rostrum moderately elongated, black. Antennae black. Head 

 black, passing into dark gray on the vertex; a narrow silvery median 

 line extends from the front to the occiput. 



Pronotum dull brownish yellow with a dark brown median line. 

 Mesonotal prseseutum light gray with three dark brown stripes, nearly 

 subequal in width and much broader than the pale interspaces; 

 middle stripe narrowed behind, barely attaining the suture; lateral 

 stripevS narrowed in front, broadened behind, crossing the suture 

 and suffusing the scutal lobes; median area of the scutum and the 

 scutellum pale dirty brown; postnotuin brown. Pleura brownish 

 plumbeous. Halteres yellow, the knobs brown. Legs with the 

 coxee and trochanters pale yellow-; femora light brown, passing into 

 light yellow at the tip, this pale area including a broad dark brown 

 subterminal annulus; in the Panaman paratype, the brown annulus 

 is very broad, encroaching upon the yellow tip; the pale area at the 

 tip is about one-half the extent of the brown annulus, which in turn 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



is a little longer than or subequal to the yellow area proximad to it. 

 Wings with a pale gray tinge, the costal margin with three dark 

 brown blotches, the largest at the origin of Rs and the tip of Sc; 

 stigma rectangular; a large blotch at the middle of Sc; pale brown 

 seams along the cross-veins and deflections of veins; tip of the wing 

 a little darkened; veins dark brown, R between the brown markings 

 bright yellow. Venation: Sc rather short, extending to about 

 one-quarter the length of the sector; Sc 2 at the tip of Sci] basal 

 deflection of R i+b long, restricting the r-m cross-vein. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the ninth segment more yellowish; 

 sternites yellowish brown, the apical segments more yellowish. 



Habitat. — Central America. 



Holotype, 9 , Aguna, Guatemala, altitude 2,000 feet (Dr. G. Eisen). 



Paratopotype, 9 ; paratype, 9 , Cucaracha, Canal Zone, November 

 17, 1908, No. 14 (C. H. Bath). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Related to insignis Loew, but smaller, the thorax grayish with the 

 brown stripes broader, the subterminal brown annulus on the femora 

 much broader, the wings grayish with the brown markings larger 

 and darker; it is a much smaller species than plumbeipleura (wing 

 and body, over 8 mm. ; rostrum, 3 mm.) with the mesonotal coloration 

 more grayish, the wings with the pattern not so dark, but more 

 extensive, the interspaces of the costal region not so brightened, etc. 



Tribe Antochini. 

 This is one of the smaller of the crane-fly tribes, the species of the 

 eastern United States and Canada being as follows : 



Antocha saxicola Osten Sacken. 



Canadian and Transitional zones of the east, ranging from Ontario 

 and Quebec, south to Georgia, west to Winnipeg, Michigan and 

 Illinois. In New York and New England it flies from May 13 to 

 September 25. 



Atarba picticornis Osten Sacken. 



Canadian-Transitional and Transitional zones of the eastern 

 United States, ranging from New York and Massachusetts, south to 

 Virginia and North Carolina, west to Indiana and Tennessee. In 

 New York and New England it flies from June 19 to July 13, having 

 an unusually short flight-period. In the south it flies later (October 

 7, Tennessee) and appears earlier (May 29, Maryland). 



Dicranoptycha germana Osten Sacken. (Plate XXV, fig. 10.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, ranging 

 from New York, Vermont and New Hampshire, south, in the moun- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



tains, to North Carolina. In New York and New England it flies 

 from June 21 to August 8, being quite common in late June and 

 throughout July on vegetation in cool wooded places, usually along 

 streams. 



Dicranoptyoha nigripes Osten Sacken. 



Known only from the type-locality, Dalton, Georgia. 



Dicranoptycha sobrina Osten Sacken. (Plate XXV, fig. 11.) 



Transitional and Austral life-zones, wide-ranging throughout 

 the northern portions of the United States, from Ontario and 

 New York, south to North Carolina, west to British Columbia, 

 California and New Mexico. In the vicinity of Washington it flies 

 from April 20 to August 31, while in the northeastern part of its 

 range (New York and Ontario) it appears even later, August 30 to 

 September 20. 



Dicranoptycha winnemana sp. n. (Plate XXV, fig. 12.) 



Transitional life-zone, ranging from Maryland to Georgia. 



Elephantomyia westwoodi Osten Sacken. 



Canadian and Canadian-Transitional life-zones of northeastern 

 United States and eastern Canada, ranging from Ontario, Quebec, 

 and Nova Scotia, south to North Carolina, west to Wisconsin. In 

 New York and New England it flies from June 5 to August 13, being 

 ■common throughout late June and July. 



Rhamphidia albitarsis Osten Sacken. 



Tropical life-zone, ranging from Santo Domingo, through the 

 Antilles to St. Vincent and British Guiana; also in Central America. 

 It may possibly occur in the Miami section of Florida. 



Rhamphidia flavipes Macquart. (Plate XXV, fig. 13.) 



Wide-ranging throughout the eastern parts of North America, 

 from Ontario, and Quebec south to Georgia and Florida, west to 

 Manitoba, Wisconsin, Missouri and Texas. In New York and 

 New England, it flies from May 29 to August 29; in the southern 

 parts of its range much earlier (Florida, March 14; Texas, March 18). 



Rhamphidia mainensis sp. n. (Plate XXV, fig. 14.) 



Canadian-Transitional life-zone of the northeastern United States, 

 ranging from Maine to Maryland, west to Illinois. 



Teucholabis carolinensis Alexander. 



Lower Austral life-zone, known only from the type-locality, 

 Georgetown, South Carolina, August 19, 1915. 




498 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Teucholabis complexa Osten Sacken. (Plate XXV, fig. 15.) 



Transitional and Austral life-zones of the eastern United States, 

 ranging from New York and Connecticut, south to Georgia, west 

 to Illinois and Kentucky. In the vicinity of Washington it flies 

 from May 7 to July 25. 



Teucholabis lucida Alexander. (Plate XXV, fig. 16). 



Known only from the type-locality, District of Columbia, August 

 22, 1915. 



Toxorrhina magna Osten Sacken. 



Austral life-zones of the southeastern United States, ranging from 

 New Jersey south to Florida; in New Jersey flying from July 19 to 

 August 12, in the south its flight-period being much more extensive 

 (Crescent City, Florida, April 21; Thalman, Georgia, April 28;. 

 Bainbriclge, Georgia, September, October). 



Toxorrhina muliebris Osten Sacken. 



Canadian-Transitional life-zones of the northeastern United 

 States, ranging from New York and Maine, south to Maryland, west 

 to Michigan. In New York and New England it flies from June 21 

 to August 8, being common in places in late June and throughout 

 July. 



RHAMPHIDIA Meigen. 



Rhamphidia Meigen; Systematische Beschreibung, vol. 6, p. 281 (1830). 

 Rhamphidia mainensis sp. n. 



Rostrum elongated; head light gray with a large brown blotch 

 between the eyes; prsescutum light yellowish brown with three dark 

 brown stripes; wings unmarked except the pale stigma; legs dark 

 brown; abdomen dark brown, the basal sternites and the hypopygium 

 yellowish. 



Male. — Length, 6-7.5 mm.; wing, 5.8-7.7 mm. 



Rostrum elongated, black. Antennae black, the second segment 

 a little paler apically. Head light gray with a large brown blotch 

 between the eyes. 



Mesonotal prsescutum light yellowish brown with three dark brown 

 stripes, the middle one broadest, double, becoming indistinct before 

 the suture; lateral stripes shorter, crossing the suture and suffusing 

 the scutal lobes except behind; median area of the scutum and the 

 scutellum pale yellowish gray; postnotum yellowish, darker, more 

 brownish, on the sides. Pleura brownish with a golden-yellow 

 pollen. Halteres light brown, the knobs dark brown. Legs with 

 the coxse and trochanters yellowish brown; femora dark brown, 

 a little paler basally; tibiae and tarsi dark brown. Wings sub- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



hyaline, the stigma indistinct, brownish; veins dark brown, sub- 

 costa more yellowish. Venation (Plate XXV, fig. 14) Rs moderate 

 in length, about one and one-half the length of the deflection of 

 R i+b ; cell 1st M t small to elongate; basal deflection of Cu t variable 

 in position, before, at or beyond the fork of M. 



Abdominal tergites dark brown, the hypopygium brighl reddish 

 yellow; sternites two to five dull brownish yellow basally, the caudal 

 margins dark brown; segments six to seven dark brown; eight and 

 nine dull yellow. 



The Maryland paratype is strikingly smaller (the smallest measure- 

 ments given) than the typical Maine material and has the stigma more 

 distinct, but is undoubtedly the same species. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, c\ Orono, Penobscot County, Maine, June 12, 1913 

 (Alexander) . 



Paratopotypes, 4 cf's; paratype, cf, Hyattsville, Maryland, 

 September 1, 1912 (Malloch); <?, Lake Forest, Illinois, July 8, 1906 

 (Needham) . 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This species differs conspicuously from the only other eastern 

 species of the genus, R. flavipes Macquart (Plate XXV, fig. 13), 

 in the elongate rostrum, the uniformly dark legs, the clear wings and 

 the abdominal coloration. It is much more closely related to R. 

 longirostris Meigen (western Palaearctic region) which has the antennal 

 flagellar segments more elongated with longer verticils, the thorax 

 differently patterned, the wings broader with a higher cell 1st M 2 , etc. 



ATARBA « Isten Sacken. 



Atarba Osten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, pt. 4, 



p. 127 (1869). 



Atarba cincticornis *p. n. (Extra-limital.) 



Atarba varicornis Alexander (in part); Transactions of the American Ento- 

 mological Society, vol. 40. p. 232 (1914). 



Antennae of the male greatly elongated, the flagellar segments 

 bicolored, the basal half of each segment black, the apical half yellow. 

 the segments with long outstretched hairs; cell 1st M 2 of the wings 

 very small. 



Male. — Length, 4.2 mm.; wing, 5 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi reddish. Antennae with the basal segmenl 

 reddish; second segment dark brown; flagellar segments with the 

 basal half to three-fifths black, the remainder of each segment light 

 yellow; fourth segment largely blackish; flagellar segments with 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



long outstretched hairs; antenna? very elongated, nearly as long as the 

 body, the individual segments of the flagellum being greatly elongated. 

 Head reddish yellow. 



Mesonotum reddish yellow with an impressed median line on the 

 praescutum. Pleura reddish with a very sparse grayish bloom. 

 Halteres yellowish, the knobs darker at their tips. Legs with the 

 coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora yellow, narrowly and 

 indistinctly brownish at the tips; tibiae brownish yellow; tarsi 

 yellowish brown, the tips of the segments brown, the two terminal 

 segments entirely brown. Wings with a grayish yellow tinge, 

 stigma very indistinct, grayish; veins brown. Venation: Sc ending 

 about opposite the origin of Rs; Rs short, a little longer than the 

 basal deflection of R i+5 ; cell 1st M 2 small. 



Abdominal segments dull yellow, brownish laterally; a brownish 

 black subterminal ring. 



Habitat. — British Guiana. 



Holotype, cf , Mallali, Demerara River, British Guiana, March 25, 

 1913 (H. S. Parish). 



Type in the collection of the author. 



A. cincticornis is to be separated from the other species of the 

 genus with bicolored antennae in that it is the basal half of the flagellar 

 segments that is black instead of the apical half (as in picticornis 

 Osten Sacken, varicornis Alexander). 



DICRANOPTYCHA Osten Sacken. 



Dicranoptycha Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 217 (1859). 



Dicranoptycha winnemana sp. n. 



Altogether pale brownish yellow; wings pale yellow, the costal 

 margin fringed with long golden hairs; radial sector about one and 

 one-half the length of cell 1st M 2 . 



Male. — Length, 6.8-7.2 mm.; wing, 7-7.6 mm. 



Female.— Length, 7.8-8.8 mm.; wing, 8.2-8.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi brown, the latter darker. Antennae with the 

 first segment dark brown, grayish pubescent; second segment dark 

 brown; flagellum dull yellow. Head light gray. 



Mesonotal praescutum clear light brownish yellow without stripes; 

 scutellum and postnotum a little more yellowish. Pleura pale 

 reddish yellow. Halteres short, yellow. Legs with the coxae and 

 trochanters pale yellow; femora and tibiae yellow; tarsi similar with 

 the four terminal segments and the tips of the metatarsi light brown. 

 Wings with the membrane tinged with yellow, the veins light brown; 




1016.] NATURAL S< IIACES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501 



costal margin and the veins in the costal field with a fringe of long 

 golden hairs. Venation (Plate XXV, fig. 12; : Rs elongate, about 

 one-half Longer than the cell 1st M t . 

 Abdominal segments brownish yellow with a subterminal brownish 



black ring in the male, lacking in the female. 



Habitat- Eastern I'nited States. 



Holotype, d\ Maryland, near Plunmiers Island, July 21, 1915 

 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9, Plummers Island, Maryland, July 21, 1915 

 (Alexander). 



Paratopotypes, 1 cf , 10 9 's, (McAtee and Alexander); paratype, 

 9 , Dead Run, Virginia, July 21, 1915 (McAtee); cf , Lost Mountain, 

 Cobb County, Georgia, July 13, 1913 (Bradley). 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This is probably the species that Osten Sacken referred to when 

 he said "immature specimens of a paler coloring (than sobrina), 

 with uniformly pale feet, and without any trace of a darker tinge near 

 the apex of the wings often occur." 3 These specimens do not 

 represent teneral insects, but fully colored specimens of both sexes, 

 some of them taken in copulation. Besides the pale coloration, the 

 elongate sector will distinguish the species fa om sobrina (Plate XXV, 



%• ID- 



Tribe Eriopterini. 



ERIOPTERA Meigen. 



Erioptera Meigen; Illigers Magazine, vol. 2, p. 262 (1S03). 



Erioptera (Erioptera) laticeps sp. n. 



Head very broad; coloration dark, the humeral triangles pale; 

 pleura marked with brown and yellow; abdomen banded brown ami 

 white ; wings nearly hyaline. 



Male. — Length, 4.6 mm.; wing, 3.8 mm. 



Female. — Length, 5 mm.; wing, 4 mm. 



The specimens are described from alcoholic material. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 

 flagellar segments short-oval, more elongated toward the tip of the 

 organ. Head very broad, especially behind; frontal tubercle dis- 

 tinct. Head dark grayish brown, paler brown on the genae. 



Mesonotal prsescutum dark brown, the region before the pseudo- 

 sutural fovea? light yellow, triangular in outline; remainder of the 

 mesonotum dark brown, the scutellum yellow. Pleura mottled 

 brown and brownish yellow, the sternal region more brownish; a 



3 Monographs of the Diptera of North America, pt. 1, p. L19 L869 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



group of about twenty long pale hairs on the caudal margin of the 

 mesepimeron just cephalad of the halteres. Halteres pale yellow 

 throughout, the knobs large. Legs with the coxse and trochanters 

 brown; femora dark brown; tibiae and tarsi, especially the terminal 

 segments of the latter, paler brown. Wings subhyaline, the stigma 

 indistinct; veins brown. Venation (Plate XXVII, fig. 34). 



Abdominal tergites one and two dark brown, three to eight dark 

 brown, broadly margined caudally and more narrowly on the sides 

 with pale yellowish white, giving the organ a banded appearance; 

 pleural integument pale; sternites similar to the tergites, but paler 

 brown. Male hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig. 97) with the pleurites 

 short and stout, the pleural appendages a dorsal cylindrical fleshy 

 lobe and a more ventral acute chitinized point with a smaller chitin- 

 ized lobe on its ventral face; ninth tergite concave on the caudal 

 margin, underneath with two stout, chitinized lobes that are 

 decussate. 



The female has the tergal valves of the ovipositor long, strongly 

 upcurved, chitinized, brown; sternal valves short, pale, acutely 

 pointed. 



Habitat. — Western United States. 



Holotype, cf, Blue Lake, Humboldt County, California, June 

 20-27, 1907 (Bradley). 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 4 cf 's. 



Type in the collection of Cornell University. 



Erioptera (Mesocyphona) tantilla sp. n. 



Vertex unicolorous; mesonotum brown with three narrow blackish 

 stripes; femora pale with a narrow, indistinct, subterminal band; 

 costal region of the wings dark with tiny spots at the ends of Sc, 

 Rx, R 2 and R 3 ; caudal cells of the wings with gray spots; cell 1st M 2 

 closed. 



Male. — Length, 4.5 mm.; wing, 3.6 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi light brown. Antennae reddish yellow, the 

 flagellum a little more brownish ; flagellar segments very slender with 

 elongate verticils. Head brownish yellow without distinct markings, 

 the vertex with numerous long hairs. 



Mesonotal praescutum light brownish gray medially, more yellowish 

 laterally, the central portion delimited on either side by an indistinct 

 narrow brown line; a still darker narrow brown median line, inter- 

 rupted at the level of the tuberculate pits; scutum with the lobes pale 

 indistinctly marked with brown; an oblique row of about seven 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



bristles crosses the lobe with a smaller group on I be proximal margin 

 of the lobe; scutellum dark reddish brown, distinctly and rather 

 broadly light yellow medially, the sides of the sclerite also passing 

 into yellowish; postnotum brownish gray with an indistincl narrow 



brown median line. Pleura brownish yellow with a narrow brown 

 pleural stripe: the sternal region a little paler brown. Halteres 

 short, brown. Legs with the coxae light brown; trochanters dull 

 yellow; femora light brown, the apical quarter more yellowish and 

 enclosing a narrow brown subterminal annulus; tibia' dull brownish 

 yellow, the tips and the tarsi broken. Wings with the apical costal 

 portion dark brown, the basal costal portion and the caudal portions 

 of the membrane much paler, subhyaline; cells C and Sc with a few 

 scattered brown spots; a small white spot at the tip of Sci, at the tip 

 of Ri, and near the tips of R 2 and R 3 ; the hyaline areas of the wings 

 with a rather dense but pale pattern of small spots and blotches, 

 brownish in the radial field, passing into grayish on the caudal fields 

 of the wings. Venation (Plate XVII, fig. 35) cell 1st M 2 closed, the 

 outer deflection of M 3 and cross-vein m being present. 



Abdominal tergites brownish yellow with abundant long pale 

 hairs; sternites yellowish gray, indistinctly trivittate with brown, 

 the segments with abundant pale brown setigerous punctures. 



Habitat. — Southeastern United States. 



Holotype, cf, Jackson, Mississippi, August 8 (H. S. Barber). 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



Similar to E. costalis Alexander, 4 but the cell 1st M 2 closed and the 

 wing-pattern much heavier in the costal region. 



Erioptera (Empeda) nyctops sp. n. 



Pale yellow throughout; wings with Sc long; vein R 2 oblique; 

 cross-vein r present; cell 1st M 2 closed with the basal deflection of 

 Cui beneath it. 



Male. — Length, 3.8-3.9 mm.; wing, 4.3-4.4 mm. 



Female. — Length, 3.8-4 mm.; wing, 4.5-4.7 mm. 



Rostrum light yellow, palpi brown. Antennae with the scapal 

 segments pale yellow, the flagellum light brown. Head bright light 

 yellow. Eyes large, black. 



Mesonotal praescutum pale reddish yellow, unmarked, more 

 yellowish laterally; tuberculate pits pale, remote from the anterior 

 margin of the sclerite (as in Erioptera); remainder of the mesonotum 

 more shiny. Pleura light yellow. Halteres pale yellowish, the 



4 Proceedings of the United States National Museum, vol. 1 1. ]>. 511 (1913 , 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct. r 



knobs brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; 

 femora brown, a little paler basally; tibiae and tarsi brown. Wings 

 subhyaline, stigma indistinct, veins pale brownish yellow. Venation 

 (Plate III, fig. 36) : Sc long, ending beyond the fork of the sector; Sc t 

 about four to six times as long as Sc 2 ; Rs long, gently arcuated; cross- 

 vein r present, connecting with R 2+3 at about one-third its length; 

 R 2 oblique (as in Gonomyia subcinerea) ; cell 1st M 2 closed; basal de- 

 flection of Cui at about one-third to one-fourth the length of the cell. 



Abdomen brownish yellow, the sternites paler yellow. Male 

 hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig. 98) with the pleurites moderately 

 slender, broader basally, bearing three appendages, the largest 

 appendage (a) very elongate, digitiform, with numerous long scattered 

 hairs on raised tubercles, the apex a little flattened, blunt, this 

 appendage decussate with its fellow of the opposite side; the two 

 smaller appendages are slender, one (b) directed proximad, decussate, 

 pale, the tip drawn out into a long point; the third appendage (c) 

 slender, directed cephalad, slightly enlarged beyond the middle, the 

 tip subacute. Penis-guard rectangular, on the ventral side running 

 out into a sharp, median chitinized point. In a position of rest the 

 large finger-like appendages lie parallel and are more or less approxi- 

 mated, but not decussate, directed strongly ventrad. 



Females have the eyes smaller, the praescutum more yellowish; 

 ovipositor powerful, the valves elongate, upcurved toward the tips. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, cf , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 

 1,600 feet, June 13, 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , Buell Mountain, Fulton County, New York, altitude 

 1,800 feet, June 18, 1916. 



Paratopotypes, 2 c? 's, 35 9 's. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



The holotype occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary 

 stream flowing into the lake on June 13. Associated with the 

 species at this time were the following crane-flies: Dicranomyia 

 pubipennis, Ormosia rubella, Erioptera (Empeda) stigmatica, Limno- 

 phila toxoneura, L. areolata, L. nigripleura, L. brevifurca, L. rufibasis, 

 L. sylvia, Ulomorpha pilosella, Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) 

 tenuipes, R. (Rhapidolabina) flaveola, R. (Plectromyia) modesta, 

 Tricyphona vernalis, T. calcar, Dolichopeza americana, Oropeza venosa,, 

 Tipula senega, T. iroquois, and T. hermannia. 



The allotype and several of the paratypes occurred along a small 

 temporary torrent pouring down the eastern slopes of Buell Mountain 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



on June 18. Associated with this species were the following crane- 

 flies: Dicranomyia pubipennis, Limnobia indigena, Ldmnophila 

 niveitarsis, L. toxoneura, L. areolata, L. adusta, L. brevifurca, L. 

 rufibasis, L. munda, L. montana, L. lenta, L. emmelina, Ula elegans, 

 Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola, Dolichopezu americana, 

 Tipiiln senega, T. hermannia, T. maerolaMs and T. valida. 



This interesting pallid species gave some trouble in assigning it 

 to this genus The general appearance of the fly is altogether t li.it 

 of Gonomyia, hut the presence of the radial cross-vein, the very 

 elongate subcosta and the position of the tuberculate pits make it 

 more probable that the present reference is the correct one. In its 

 venation it departs widely from that of the genotype, E. stigmatica 

 ( '-ten Sacken (Eastern Nearctic), in the oblique, Gonomyia-like course 

 of vein R 2 , in this respect suggesting certain of the European 

 Empedse. These insects with the oblique R 2 certainly appear 

 different from stigmatica, and if this difference were worthy of a name 

 it is this group that would have to be separated off from stigmatica, 

 the genus Empeda being erected for the species with the short cell R 2 

 and the normal, Erioptera-\ike course of vein R 2 . This Gonomyia- 

 Erioptera group of species gets more complex with the accession of 

 new forms, and it seems probable that the best basis for a division 

 is the position of the tuberculate pits, these being far cephalad in the 

 Gonomyia-like forms and retreated far backward and lying at nearly 

 mid-length of the sclerite in the genera and subgenera related to 



Erioptera. 



MOLOPHILUS Curtis. 



Molophilus Curtis; British Entomology, p. 444 (1833). 



Molophilus fultonensis sp. n. 



Much larger and darker colored than M. pubipennis to which it is 

 most closely related; antennae of the female much longer than in the 

 corresponding sex of pubipennis. 



Male. — Length, 3.5-4.4 mm.; wing, 5.6-6.4 mm. 



Female. — Length, 4.5-5 mm. ; wing, 5.3-6 mm. 



Very similar to the smaller M. pubipennis Osten Sacken, differing 

 as follows: much larger and darker colored, especially in the male 

 sex, the abdomen being dark brown instead of yellow; thorax without 

 the rich reddish tints of pubipennis; pronotum not bright yellow as in 

 pubipennis. Hypopygium with two chitinized hooks (Plate XXXI, 

 figs. 95, 96), the curved hook directed abruptly ventrad, ending in a 

 long slender point; the smaller straight one is more dorsad in position, 

 minutely denticulated along the ventral face; proximo-lateral angle 




506 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



produced into a sharp point. Hypopygium quite as in pubipennis, 

 but the ventral hook is more blackened, chitinized, and the point is 

 longer, more slender; dorsal hook more slender, not so blackened, 

 the sharp point on the proximo-lateral angle not so long. 



The female has the antennae much longer than in this sex of pubi- 

 pennis, the flagellar segments dark brown, not yellowish, the terminal 

 segments darkened; flagellar segments elongate-oval instead of merely 

 oval; wings (Plate XXVII, fig. 37) with the anterior margin and 

 apex with a fringe of reddish brown to dark brown hairs, not bright 

 yellow as in pubipennis. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, & , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 

 1,600 feet, July 7, 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 15 cf 9 's; paratypes, 1 d", Taylor, Cortland 

 County, New York, altitude 1,200 feet, July 20, 1916, 2 cf's, near 

 Cincinnatus, Chenango County, New York, altitude 1,300 feet, 

 July 21, 1916. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



A large striking species, the largest yet discovered in the eastern 

 States. 



The types occurred on rich vegetation along a small temporary 

 stream flowing into the lake. This is the same locality described 

 under Erioptera nyctops, but by this date (July 7) the stream had 

 disappeared and the mid-summer crane-fly fauna was quite different 

 from that found less than four weeks before. The principal species 

 recorded now were the following: Dicranomyia immodesta, D. 

 pubipennis, D. macateei, Elephantomyia westwoodi, Erioptera chryso- 

 coma, E. chlorophylla, E. armillaris, E. armata, E. caloptera, E. 

 stigmatica, Molophilus pubipennis, M. ursinus, Lininopkila fusco- 

 varia, L. quadrata, Bittacomorpha jonesi, etc. 

 Molophilus nova-oaesariensis sp. n. 



Size small (wing under 3.2 mm.); coloration dark brownish black; 

 wings dusky with the fusion between Cu x and M 3 slight ; hypopygium 

 of the male with the ventral appendages straight, slender, heavily 

 chitinized. 



Male. — Length about 2.7 mm.; wing, 2.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi blackish. Antennae rather elongated, dark 

 brown, the flagellar segments cylindrical with an abundant long 

 pale pubescence. Head dark gray. 



Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish bloom ; pleura dark brown- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 507 



ish black, the dorso-pleural membranes a little brighter. Halteres 

 short, dull yellow throughout, the knobs elongate. Legs with the 

 coxae brown, the trochanters yellowish brown; femora and tibiae 

 dark brown, the former a little brighter at the base; tarsi light brown,, 

 the tips of the segments and all of the terminal two segments darker.. 

 Wings with a dusky suffusion, the costal and stigmal regions a little 

 more suffused; veins dark brown. Venation (Plate XXVII, fig. 38): 

 first deflection of R 2 elongate, oblique, not perpendicular as in ursinus 

 (Plate XXVII, fig. 39) ; fusion of M 3 and Cu x slight, shorter than the 

 free portion of Gu\ alone. 



Abdomen dark brownish black with a long pale pubescence. 

 Hypopygium narrowed, the ventral appendage very long, slender, 

 acicular and almost straight, heavily chitinized. 



Habitat.- — Eastern United States. 



Holotype, d 71 , Ashland, Camden County, New Jersey, May 13, 

 1905. 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species occurred in the United States National Museum 

 collection, bearing the label U M. ursinus f" in Coquillett's writing. 

 M. ursinus Osten Sacken, probably the smallest crane-fly in the 

 United States (wing of the male, 2.4 mm.), is the only species with 

 which it might be confused; the venation of the two species is quite 

 distinct, that of the new species being much more of the normal 

 Molophilus type. M. ursinus (Plate XXVII, fig. 39) has the upward 

 deflection of R 2 almost perpendicular and in a line with the radial 

 cross-vein; basal deflection of Cui before the fork of M, the fusion of 

 Cui and M 3 being correspondingly extensive, longer than the free 

 portion of Cui alone; there is a clear, hyaline area running along the- 

 anterior face of vein M, this obliterating the base of M 1+2 ; M. nova- 

 ccesariensis (Plate XXVII, fig. 38) has the upward deflection of R 2 . 

 elongate, oblique; basal deflection of Cui about at the fork of M, the 

 fusion of Cui and M 3 being very slight, not more than one-half the 

 free portion of Cui alone; there is no hyaline obliterative mark along, 

 vein M and the base of M , +2 is distinct. 



EMPEDOMORPHA gen. n. 



Head with the front broad, the eyes widely separated. Rostrum 

 short. Palpi four-segmented, the segments subequal. Antennae- 

 16-segmented, the second segment not longer and only a little broader 

 than the third; flagellar segments oval with verticils just below 

 mid-length; terminal segments smaller. Legs moderately stout, the? 

 34 




508 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



segments with abundant strong hairs; tibiae without spurs. Wing 

 (of the male) (Plate XXVII, fig. 40) with the stigma enormously 

 enlarged so that the costal and radial veins in that field are bulged 

 outward; stigma extending from the basal portion of cell Ri to the 

 end of vein R t ; wing (of the female) with the stigma smaller, the 

 cells Ri not so wide and the cross-vein r consequently shorter and 

 more nearly straight. Sc moderately long, ending just before the 

 fork of Rs; Sc 2 far retreated, lying just beyond the origin of Rs; 

 Rs long, straight, in a line with #4+5; cross-vein r long, oblique, 

 somewhat twisted, inserted at the end of Rs or just beyond on 

 R 2+3 ; R 2+3 about as long as R 2 alone; R 2 arcuated at its base; cell 

 1st M 2 closed (sometimes open by the atrophy of cross-vein m, which, 

 when present, is usually weak) ; basal deflection of Cui at or just 

 before the fork of M; fusion of Cu x and M 3 moderate, about one-half 

 of Cui alone or a little longer than the deflection of Cui. 



Genotype. — ? Trimicra empedoides Alexander. (Mid-western Ne- 

 ar ctic region.) 



Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander. 



1 Trimicra em-pedoides Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 44, 45 

 (1916). 



This curious fly ranges from South Dakota to Texas and New 



Mexico, an unrecorded station being Brownsville, Texas, May 3, 



1904 (H. S. Barber), a 9 in the collection of the United States 



National Museum. 



GONOMYIA Meigen. 

 Gonomyia Meigen; Systematische Beschreibung, vol. 1, p. 146 (1818). 



The numerous species of this genus may be divided into three 

 subgenera, Gonomyia, Gonomyella and Leiponeura, and it is the last- 

 named group that has caused so much confusion in the study of 

 crane-flies during the past few years, the species having been de- 

 scribed in a wide range of Limnobine and Antochine genera (Dicra- 

 nomyia, Atarba, Elliptera, Teucholabis, Thaumastoptera, etc.). 



Brunetti, in his exhaustive work on the "Diptera Nematocera of 

 British India," pp. 469, 470, enters into a long discussion as to 

 the homologies of the veins of those species of Gonomyia which have 

 but two branches of the sector reaching the wing-margin, i.e., the 

 subgenus Leiponeura Skuse. He presents the rather far-fetched 

 idea of the cell R 2 being unusually large, sessile and the vein _R 4+ 5 

 lacking so that cross-vein r-m connects M 1+2 with R 3 . A study of a 

 series of the species of the genus show the impossibility of this inter- 

 pretation, R i+S being one of the most constant veins of the wing in 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 509 



the Tipulidse. It is much more reasonable to figure out the dis- 

 appearance of one of these branches by fusion to the wing-margin, 

 a condition found in many remote crane-fly tribes (Limnophilini, 

 the Neotropical genus Psaronius Enderlein; Hexatomini, the genus 

 Hexatoma and the reduced form, Cladolipes, Palsearctic, etc.). In 

 the genus Gonomyia we may start with forms possessing a deep cell 

 R 2 and the radial cross-vein present as in the subgenus Gonomyella 

 Alexander (slossona? Alexander) through species with the cell a little 

 less deep [subcinerea group (Nearetic), Plate XXVI, fig. 33; affinis 

 Brunetti (Oriental) et al.]; then to still smaller forked species (novebo- 

 racensis, Plate XXVI, fig. 30; aperta Brunetti) and finally to a group 

 of species that have the cell very tiny (sulphurella group, Plate XXVI, 

 fig. 26; flavonotata Edwards of the Seychelles Islands et al.), a single 

 step further in the fusion of R i+ z resulting in the obliteration of the 

 cell and the attainment of the condition found in Leiponeura (Plate 

 X XVI, figs. 17-22). With this fusing of the branches of #2+3 there 

 occurs a simultaneous tendency for R i+5 to bend caudad toward the 

 wing-apex so that in the species of Leiponeura these two branches of 

 the radial sector are very widely separated at the wing-margin. 

 It is a very easy matter to pick out the species of this group merely 

 by this one tendency alone, a correlated character, however, being 

 the extremely narrowed, often almost pointed, inner end of cell 

 1st M 2 due to the extreme shortening of the basal deflection of ilfi +2 . 



Dr. Bergroth has expressed his belief that although Gonomyia 

 manca Osten Sacken is a true, though aberrant, member of the genus, 

 the other species that have been described in various Antochine 

 genera, such as Atarba, Elliptera, Leiponeura, etc., are quite distinct 

 from manca and really belong to the tribe Antochini. The series 

 of Leiponeura, as they occur in the United States alone and without 

 taking into consideration the rest of the world, show a curious and 

 almost complete transition into the sulphurella group of Gonomyia 

 s.s. I would point out the exceedingly long verticils of the flagellar 

 segments of the male antennse that are found not only in the species 

 of Leiponeura {manca, pleuralis et al.), but also in Gonomyia sul- 

 phurella, another proof of the close relationship existing, since this 

 condition of the antennse elsewhere in the family is rare or lacking. 



Occasionally a crane-fly society is found in which the dominant 

 element consists of species of this genus. Such a society was found 

 in the Shaul woods on the east bank of Nowadaga Creek (Castle 

 Creek) south of the village of Indian Castle, Herkimer County, New 

 York, June 13, 1915, and may be described as a CronowM/ia-association. 




510 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The woods are quite open, in places with outcroppings of a transi- 

 tional character, of Trenton limestones and Utica shales and with a 

 western exposure. The forest cover consists of the dominant 

 arbor-vitse, Thuja occidentalis, with an admixture of Juglans cinerea, 

 Betula lutea, Ulmus americana, U. fulva, Tilia americana, Fraxinus 

 americana and a few others. The underbrush was of yew, Taxus 

 canadensis, Ribes Cynosbati and Hamamelis virginiana. The under- 

 growth from which the crane-flies were swept consisted of three 

 dominant plants, early meadow-rue, Thalictrum dioicum, mandrake, 

 Podophyllum peltatum, and ground ivy, Nepeta hederacea, with fewer 

 representatives of other species, Ranunculus abortivus, R. acris, 

 Fragaria vesca, and an abundance of bladder-fern, Cystopteris bulb- 

 ifera. In places rank growths of Osmunda cinnamomea, Podophyllum, 

 Solidago, Lysimachia Nummularia, bound into dense tangles by 

 lianas, Menispermum canadense and Psedera quinque-folia. Here 

 occurred Gonomyia mathesoni, Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) flava and 

 Erioptera venusta. Along the base of the hill is a broad ditch, now 

 quite dry, but supporting such a flora as Cystopteris, Lysimachia 

 Nummularia, Tussilago Farfara, etc. It is very probable that a 

 certain element of the crane-fly fauna emerged from this ditch. The 

 similarity between the crane-fly fauna of this open woods and that 

 of Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, Fulton County, New York, 

 is very close (Gonomyia alexanderi, G. cognatella, G. mathesoni, 

 Rhabdomastix flava, etc.). 

 The crane-fly fauna of this association is as follows: 

 Dicranomyia liberta, sev.; Geranomyia canadensis, rare; Antocha 

 saxicola, few; Erioptera venusta, comm.; E. armata, comm.; Molo- 

 philus pubipennis, comm.; Gonomyia alexanderi, uncoram. ; G. 

 sulphurella, dom.; G. mathesoni, dom.; G. cognatella and G. florens, 

 loc. abund.; G. subcinerea, uncomm.; Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) 

 flava, uncomm.; Adelphomyia minuta, uncomm.; Limnophila rufibasis, 

 comm.; Tipula caloptera, rare, and T. macrolabis, rare. 



Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, New York (mentioned 

 above), is rather remarkable in its Gonomyia fauna, no less than 

 eight species having been taken here (G. alexanderi, G. sacandaga, 

 G. manca, G. sulphurella, G. cognatella, G. mathesoni, G. noveboracensis 

 and G. subcinerea) , as well as the closely related genus, Rhabdomastix 

 (Sacandaga) flava Alexander. The floral conditions obtaining here 

 have been discussed by the author in an earlier paper. 5 



5 Entomological News, vol. 23, p. 72 (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 511 



A Key to the Near ctic Species of Gonomyia. 



1. Two branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin 



(Subgenus Leiponeura Skuse.) 2 

 Three branches of the radial sector attain the wing-margin 7 



2. Outer deflection of M 3 absent, the cell 1st M 2 being open 3 



Outer deflection of M 3 present, the cell 1st M 2 being closed 4 



3. Costa conspicuously china-white; legs banded with white; male 



hypopygiuni with the dorsal pleural appendage triangular, 

 the caudal angle a prominent elongate spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage a flattened blade whose inner caudal margin is 

 armed with about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, 

 of which the innermost is the largest. (Eastern United 



States.) alexanderi Johnson. 



Costa not conspicuously china-white; legs without white bands; 

 male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage broadly 

 triangular, the caudal angle a short spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage a flattened blade bearing near its dorsal inner side 

 a sharp chitinized point; no serrations along the lobe. 

 (Western United States.) cinerea Doane. 



4. Pleural stripes conspicuous; stigma distinct 5 



Pleural stripes indistinct or feebly indicated; stigma lacking or 



very faint 6 



5. Legs with the femora tipped with dark brow r n; costal margin of 



the wings conspicuously light yellow, the stigma pale browm. 



(Northeastern United States.) sacandaga Alexander. 



Legs with the femora indistinctly darkened at the tip; costal 

 margin of the wings not yellow, the stigma dark browTi. 



(Southeastern United States and southward.) 



pleuralis Williston. 



6. Pleura plumbeous with a pale yellow stripe; male hypopygium 



with the pleural appendage armed with a strongly curved 



hook. (Southeastern United States and southward.) 



pner Alexander. 



Pleura unstriped, pale; male hypopygium with the pleural 



appendage very elongate, slender, decussate in a position of 



rest, the inner face at the apex with a strong bristle. (Eastern 



Lmited States.) manca Osten Sacken. 



7. Radial cross-vein present (subgenus Gonomyella Alexander) 



i Southeastern United States and southward.) 



slossonce Alexander. 

 Radial cross-vein lacking (subgenus Gonomyia Meigen) 8 



8. Basal deflection of Cu x far before the fork of M ; subcosta long, 



ending beyond the origin of Rs 9 



Basal deflection of Cui at or beyond the fork of M; subcosta 

 short, ending opposite or far before the origin of Rs 11 



9. Wings clear. (Northeastern United States.) 



mathesoni Alexander. 

 Wings spotted 10 




512 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



10. Pleura unstriped; Sc rather short, extending to about one-fourth 



the length of the sector; no dark blotch at the tip of Sci; 

 apices of cells R s and R 5 largely darkened. (Eastern United 



States.) blanda Osten Sacken. 



Pleura striped with brown; Sc long, ending at about half the 

 length of the sector; a dark blotch at the tip of Sd; apices of 

 cells Rz and R only slightly darkened. (Western United 

 States.) - calif ornica Alexander. 



11. Antennae orange at the base, the flagellum dark 12 



Antennae black throughout 15 



12. Cell 1st M 2 closed; femora with a dark brown subterminal 



annulus. (Eastern United States.) sulphurella Osten Sacken. 



Cell 1st Mo open; femora without a darker subterminal annulus... 13 



13. Sc short ending before the origin of Rs, this distance being about 



equal to the vein R 2 . (Western United States.) 



flavibasis Alexander. 

 Sc longer, ending opposite, or just before, the origin of Rs 14 



14. Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite stout, 



with numerous (about fifteen) slender hairs; ventral append- 

 age simple, stout, tipped by a blunt black spine; second 

 appendage a powerful, curved, subchitinized arm directed 



proximad. (Northeastern United States.) fiorens Alexander. 



Male hypopygium with the dorsal angle of the pleurite slender, 

 with a few (about ten) stout hairs; ventral appendage bifid, 

 the arm with a long slender black spine; second appendage a 

 slender pale arm that is almost straight, with two hairs at 

 the tip. (Eastern United States.) cognatella Osten Sacken. 



15. Wings with slender veins, clouded with a milky suffusion; Rs 



very long and straight. (Northwestern North America.), 



galactoptera Bergroth. 



Wings with stouter veins, pale gray to hyaline; Rs shorter, more 



arcuated basally 16 



16. Subcosta short, ending before the origin of Rs, the distance about 



equal to the r-m cross-vein; vein R- 2 oblique, a little longer 

 than the cross-vein r-m; male hypopygium with the gona- 

 pophyses and penis-guard fused into a large, prominent, 



cylindrical tube. (Northeastern United States.) 



noveboracensis Alexander. 



Subcosta longer, ending about opposite the origin of Rs ; vein R 2 



longer, the cell R 2 being larger; male hypopygium with the 



gonapophyses and penis-guard not fused into a cvlindrical 



tube 17 



17. Wings long and slender with a strong grayish brown suffusion; 



halteres elongated; male hypopygium with the ventral pleural 

 appendage very elongate, slender, slightly expanded toward the 



tip. (Eastern Rocky Mountain region.) filicauda Alexander. 



Wings broader, not strongly tinged with grayish ; halteres shorter 

 male hypopygium with the ventral pleural appendage not 

 strikingly elongated 18 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 513 



18. Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage armed 



with a chitinized hook 19 



Male hypopygium with the dorsal pleural appendage without a 

 hook, although with two powerful bristles at the tip 20 



19. Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage two lobed, the 



caudal arm a powerful chitinized spine; ventral arm with a 

 sharp, chitinized, feebly curved spine. (Eastern United 



States.) subcinerea Osten Sacken. 



Male hypopygium with the dorsal appendage irregular, not two 

 lobed, the outer face near the apex with a strong, curved, 



chitinized hook. (Extra-limital; Guatemala.) 



cequalis Alexander. 



20. Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage prominent, 



directed caudad, narrowed at the base, the apex a slight 

 chitinized tooth directed proximad. (Western United States.) 



virgata Doane. 

 Male hypopygium not as described 21 



21. Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage a double, dark- 



colored lobe, the inner arm stout-cylindrical; the outer arm 

 slender, curved, bearing at the tip two divergent hairs; penis- 

 guard subtended by two divergent chitinized arms that are 



acute at their tips. (Extra-limital; Guatemala.) 



unicolor Alexander. 

 Male hypopygium with the ventral appendage pale, not 

 chitinized; penis-guard long and pale, the apex bifid by a 

 deep U-shaped notch; the divergent subtending arms are 

 slender, the ventral margin with a few sharp, appressed teeth. 

 (Extra-limital; Mexico.) mexicana Alexander. 



Subgenus LEIPONEURA Skuse. 



The Cinerea Group. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) alexanderi Johnson. 



EUiptera alexanderi Johnson: Psyche, vol. 19, p. 3, fig. 6 (1912). 



This handsome little fly is locally common. Its known distribu- 

 tion over the eastern United States is as follows: 



New York, Fulton County, Sport Island, Sacandaga River, June 

 11, 1914, to August 24, 1910 (Alexander), the type-locality; Herkimer 

 County, Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 (Alexander). 



North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 13, 

 1912 (Beutenmuller). 



A female specimen from Piano, Collin County, Texas, in August 

 (E. S. Tucker), probably belongs here, but may possibly represent 

 G. helophila Alexander. This is also the species mentioned by 

 Osten Sacken in the Monographs, part 4, p. 179, without locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 17. 




514 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The male hypopygium is described below, the characters being 

 largely taken from paratypic material in my collection. Hypopygium 

 (Plate XXIX, figs. 59, 61) with the pleurites rather prominent, 

 cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage (v) elongate, the outer angle 

 produced caudad as a rather broad flattened blade that is slightly 

 chitinized at the tip; inner caudal margin of the appendage with 

 about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the inner- 

 most is the largest; a fleshy lobe on the ventral side of the outer 

 blade; middle pleural appendage lacking (possibly of a caducous 

 nature) ; dorsal pleural appendage (d) lying on the inner caudal angle 

 of the pleurite, triangular in outline, the caudal angle produced 

 caudad as an elongate spine that is heavily chitinized apically, the 

 inner angle a rounded lobe with numerous setigerous tubercles. 



The two Nearctic species, alexanderi and cinerea, have been dis- 

 tinguished by the key given before. There is a third species, G. 

 helophila Alexander, 6 that is even closer to alexanderi. Its known 

 range is extra-limital (Lesser Antilles and British Guiana to Peru), 

 but it may range into our southern limits. The two species may be 

 separated as follows: 



1 . Dorsal pleural appendage triangular, the caudal angle a prominent 

 spine that is heavily chitinized apically; middle pleural 

 appendage apparently lacking; ventral pleural appendage 

 with a broad flattened blade, the inner caudal margin with 

 about five or six acute chitinized appressed teeth, of which the 

 innermost is the largest (Plate XXIX, fig. 59). (Nearctic.) 



alexanderi Johnson. 

 Dorsal pleural appendage a fleshy lobe bearing many hairs ; middle 

 pleural appendage a slender subsinuous spine; ventral pleural 

 appendage with the apex flattened, smooth, chitinized, 

 bilobed; ventral margin of the appendage with two prominent 

 teeth whose margins are minutely denticulate. (Plate XXIX, 

 fig. 60). (Neotropical.) helophila Alexander. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) cinerea Doane 



Dicranomyia cinerea Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, 

 vol. 8, pp. 182, 183, PI. 7, fig. 2 (1910). 



The known range of this species is as follows: 



Washington, Whitman County, Pullman, August 10, 1898 (Piper); 

 the type-locality. 



California, Humboldt County, Blue Lake, June 20-27, 1907 

 (Bradley) . 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 18. 



6 Entomological News, vol. 27, pp. 343-346, figs. 1, 3 (1916). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 515 



The male has never been described, and this specimen is made the 

 allotype. 



Allotype, cf. — Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae with 

 the basal segments enlarged, the second segment as large as or 

 larger than the first; flagellar segments small, brown. Head pale 

 with a broad dark brown mark on the vertex sending a small median 

 tongue backward onto the occiput. 



Pronotal scutum dark medially. Mesonotal preescutum light 

 brown with three dark brown stripes, the median one split by a 

 narrow vitta of the ground-color; scutum with the lobes dark brown. 

 Pleura pale yellow, striped with brown; a very short brown dorsal 

 stripe extending from the pronotum back to above the fore coxae; 

 second stripe beginning at the fore coxa extending caudad to the base 

 of the halter; ventral stripe broadest, including the sterna and the 

 bases of the middle and hind coxae; the pale stripe enclosed broad, 

 extending to the abdomen. Halteres pale. Legs with the coxae 

 pale; trochanter's darker; remainder of the legs broken. Wings 

 hyaline or nearly so, the veins brown; basal deflection of R i+b , r-m 

 and the basal deflection of Cih dark brown; a pale brownish gray 

 oval stigma. Venation (Plate XXVI, fig. 18) with Rs short, straight, 

 oblique, a little longer than the r-m cross-vein; basal deflection of 

 Cui at the fork of M. 



Male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig. 62) with the pleurites rather 

 prominent, cylindrical; ventral pleural appendage (y) elongate, 

 flattened, blade-like, the apex chitinized; a rounded lobe on the inner 

 ventral side just before the apex; at the base on the inner dorsal 

 side, a sharp, acute, chitinized point; middle appendage a slender, 

 slightly curved pale hook, directed inward, the apex slightly 

 chitinized; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subtriangular lobe, the 

 caudal angle produced caudad as a short spine, heavily chitinized 

 at the apex, the inner angle prominent, produced slightly cephalad, 

 with numerous setigerous punctures. 



Allotype in the collection of Cornell University. 



The type is grayish, this color being produced by a pruinosity that 

 is not shown by the alcoholic allotype. 



The Pleuralis Group. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) sacandaga Alexander. 



Gonomyia sacandaga Alexander; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, pp. 587, 588, PL 27, fig. 25 (wing) ; PL 26, fig. 21 

 (hypopygium) (1914). 



This species is still known only from the type station where it is 



common. 




516 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



New York, Fulton County, Sport Island in the Sacandaga River, 

 June 11, 1914, to August 24, 1910; the type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 19. 



The hypopygium having been described and figured in the first 

 part of this series is not repeated here. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) pleuralis Williston. 



Atarba -pleuralis Williston; Transactions of the Entomological Society of 

 London, p. 289, PL 10, fig. 61 (1896). 



This is a tropical species that reaches our southern limit, its range 

 being as follows: 



Bermuda, apparently common (Jones). 



Georgia, Charlton County, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20, 1912 

 (Bradley). 



Cuba, Baracoa, September, 1901 (Busck). 



Porto Rico, Aguadilla, January, 1899 (Busck). 



St. Vincent (H. H. Smith); the type-locality. 



British Guiana, Bartica, December 9, 1912, to February 26, 1913; 

 Mallali, March 14, 1913 (Parish). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 20. 



The male hypopygium has been described and figured by the 

 author in another paper. 7 



The Manca Group. 



Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer Alexander. 



Gonomyia puer Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National 

 Museum, vol. 44, p. 506, PL 66, fig. 14 (1913). 



This is likewise a tropical species that ranges within our limits,, 

 its northern distribution being a little more extensive than the last. 



South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 

 1915 (Alexander); Charleston County, McClellanville, August 8, 

 1915 (Alexander). 



Georgia, Charlton County, Okefinokee Swamp, June 20 to 25, 1912 

 (Bradley) . 



Florida, Dade County, Miami, December 19, 1912 (Knab). 



Santo Domingo, San Francisco Mountains, August, September, 

 1905 (Busck); the type-locality. 



British Guiana, Bartica, January 3, 1913, to January 10, 1913 

 (Parish). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 21. 



''Entomological News, vol. 23, pp. 418-420; figs. 3, 4 (1912). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 517 



The male hypopygium (Plato XXIX, fig. 63) with the pleurites 

 very elongated, broader at the base, tapering to the obliquely trun- 

 cated apex which bears on the inner side a single appendage shaped 

 as a curved hook, bent proximad, dorsad and finally cephalad, the 

 apex acute and strongly chitinized. Anal tube broad, pale, bifid 

 by a deep median notch, the adjacent lobes rounded. Penis-guard 

 (p.gd.) very elongate, slender, tapering gradually to the acute apex, 

 at the base on the ventral side with an oval fleshy lobe covered 

 with setigerous punctures on the ventral face. 



Gonomyia (Xeiponeura) manca Osten Saeken. 



Gonomyia manca Osten Saeken; Monographs of the Diptera of North 

 America, part 4, pp. 178, 17H ( lst>9). 



A rather wide-ranging species throughout the eastern United 

 States: 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, August 26, 1916 

 (Alexander) . 



New Jersey, Essex County, South Orange, June 30, 1868 (Osten 

 Saeken); the type-locality. 



Maryland, Montgomery County, Forest Glen, June 1, 1913 

 (Knab); Plummers Island, August 18, 1912 (Viereck). 



District of Columbia, Washington (Coquillett's types of Dicranomyia 

 curvivena). 



Virginia, Fairfax County, Great Falls, August 23, 1908 (Knab); 

 Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee and Alexander); Glencarlyn, 

 May 28 (Banks). 



North Carolina, Jones County, Pollocksville, July 8, 1915 

 (Alexander) ; Onslow County, Camp Perry, July 9, 1915 (Alexander) ; 

 Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 24, 1912 (Beutenmuller). 



South Carolina, Charleston County, McClellanville, August 8, 

 1915 (Alexander). 



Georgia, Decatur County, Bainbridge, September, October, 1910 

 (Bradley). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 22. 



The male hypopygium is of the type of G. puer Alexander. G. incrmis 

 Alexander et at. It is shown on Plate XXIX, figs. 64, 65; the pleu- 

 rites are exceedingly elongated, slender, tapering to the narrow apex, 

 the outer face with many long hairs, on the inner face at the apex 

 wit h a st tong bristle; pleurites in a position of rest, decussate. Penis- 

 guard (p.gd.) long and slender, acute, tapering to an acute point, 

 subtended on either side by a flattened blade, ending in a triangular 

 black hook that is bent slight ly dorsad at the apex. 




518 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Subgenus GONOMYELLA Alexander. 

 Gonomyia (Gonomyella) slossonae Alexander. 



? Gonomyia slossonce Alexander; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, pp. 588, 589, PI. 27, fig. 26 (1914). 



A tropical species that ranges into the southeastern United States: 



South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 

 1915 (Alexander). 



Florida, Seminole County, Sanford, May 7, 1908 (M. C. Van- 

 Duzee); Dade County, Biscayne Bay (A. T. Slosson); the type- 

 locality. 



Panama, Paraiso, January 29, 1911 (Busck). 



Subgenus GONOMYIA Meigen. 



The Blanda Group. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) mathesoni Alexander. 



Gonomyia mithesoni Alexander; Entomological News, vol. 28, pp. 170-172, 

 figs. 1-3 (1915). 



A species of the northeastern United States and eastern Canada: 



Nova Scotia, Truro, July 7 to 26, 1913 (Matheson). 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 12 to 16, 1914 

 (Alexander), the type-locality; Herkimer County, Indian Castle, 

 June 13, 1915 (Alexander); Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 

 (Alexander) ; Tompkins County, Ithaca, August 24, 1912 (Alexander). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 23. 



The hypopygium of the male has been described and figured in the 

 paper cited above. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) blanda Osten Sacken. 



Gonomyia blanda Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231 (1859). 



This handsome fly ranges over the eastern United States: 



New Hampshire, Rockingham County, Hampton, July 15, 1907 

 (S. A. Shaw). 



Vermont, Chittenden County, Burlington, June 23, 1906 (Johnson). 



Connecticut, New Haven County, East River, July 16 to 20, 1910 

 (Ely). 



New York, Albany County, Albany, June 26, 1912 (D. B. Young); 

 Herkimer County, Trenton Falls, (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; 

 Cortland County, Taylor, July 20, 1916 (Alexander); Tompkins 

 ■County, Ithaca, July 19, 1912 (Alexander). 



District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken) ; the type-locality. 



Virginia, Fairfax County, Falls Church, June 7, 1914 (Shannon). 



South Carolina (in the Berlin Museum). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 519 



Georgia, Rabun County, Clayton, altitude 2,000 feet, May 18, 1911 

 (Bradley i. 



Michigan, Walnut Lake, June 26 to 28, 1907 (Needham). 



Colorado, Clear Creek County, June 27, 1915 (Oslar). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 24. 



The malt' hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs. 68, 69) with the pleurites 

 stout, the outer angle produced caudad into a long, fleshy, finger-like 

 lobe, blunt at the apex, provided with numerous tubercles; ventral 

 pleural appendage (v) large, prominent, being chitinized and bifid 

 the caudal or outer arm longer, slender, the diameter uniform, the 

 apex subacute; cephalic or inner arm shorter, expanded distally into 

 a broad, truncated apex; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subtriangular 

 fleshy lobe whose inner angle is produced into a prominent chitinized 

 curved horn; the cephalic inner margin with about six hair-bearing 

 tubercles. Ninth tergite with the caudal margin transversely 

 concave, not notched medially. Penis-guard very slender. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) californica Alexander. 



Gonomyia californica Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 324. 

 325 (1916). 



This is the western representative of the blanda group: 



British Columbia, Peachland, May 19, 1912. 



California, Humboldt County, Blue Lake, June 20 to 27, 1907 

 (Bradley); the type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 25. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs. 66, 67) with the pleurites 

 stout, outer angle produced caudad into a slender, fleshy lobe, 

 pointed at the apex and sparsely provided with setigerous tubercles; 

 ventral pleural appendage (v) a two-armed chitinized rod whose 

 outer ventral arm is stout basally, narrowed toward the apex which is 

 again expanded into a blunt tip; the inner arm bends dorsad, slender, 

 tapering into an acute blackened apex; dorsal pleural appendage 

 (d) a triangular fleshy lobe provided with long, coarse hairs. Ninth 

 tergite with a deep, narrow, median notch the lateral angles rounded. 

 Penis-guard (p.gd.) prominent, the sides subparallel, the apical half 

 on the dorsal surface with numerous hairs, the apex produced ventro- 

 caudad into a prominent median lobule. 



The Sulphurella Group. 

 Gonomyia I Gonomyia I sulphurella Osten Sacken. 



Gonomyia sulphurella Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 230 (1859). 



A wide-ranging species throughout eastern North America: 




520 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Ontario, Fort Erie, May 30, 1911 (M. C. Van Duzee); Point au 

 Barile, Georgian Bay, July 11, 1914 (R. B. Hughes). 



Nova Scotia, Truro, July 7 to August 16, 1913 (Matheson). 



Maine, Oxford County, Fryeburg, September 5, 1913 (Alexander). 



Vermont, Windsor County, Norwich, July 8, 1908 (Johnson). 



Connecticut, Middlesex County, Middletown, June 17, 1909 (John- 

 son); New Haven County, East River, July 11, 1910 (Ely). 



Rhode Island, Washington County, Kingston, September 23, 1907 

 (Johnson). 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 11, 1914, to 

 August 24, 1910 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Trenton Falls 

 (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; Indian Castle, June 13, 1915 

 (Alexander); Tompkins County, Ithaca, May 13 to August 24, 1912 

 (Alexander); Westchester County, Tarrytown, June 9, 1914 (Frost); 

 Nassau County, Sea Cliff, August (Banks). 



Pennsylvania, Luzerne County, Hazleton, August 30, 1910 (Dietz). 



New Jersey, Cumberland County, Shiloh, June 19, 1915 (Alex- 

 ander) . 



Maryland, Prince George County, Hyattsville, August 2, 1908 

 (Knab). 



District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; 

 May 15, 1909 (Knab). 



Virginia, Alexandria County, Rosslyn, May 11, 1913 (Knab) • 

 Fairfax County, Dead Run, May 21, 1914 (Shannon); Difficult Run, 

 July 25, 1915 (McAtee and Alexander); Glencarlyn, June 28 (Banks). 



North Carolina, Onslow County, Camp Perry, July 9, 1915 

 (Alexander). 



Georgia, Rabun County, Clayton, May 20, 1911 (Bradley). 



Louisiana, DeSoto County, Logansport, March 24, 1908 (Tucker). 



Texas, Collin County, Piano, May, 1907 (Tucker). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 26. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig. 70) with the pleurites 

 elongate, the outer angle produced proximad, dorsad and caudad 

 as a very elongate, slender, irregularly curved and feebly chitinized 

 hook which tapers gradually to an acute point; dorsal pleural appen- 

 dage (d) a cylindrical fleshy lobe, narrowed toward the apex which 

 terminates in a bristle; ventral pleural appendage (v) bifid, the 

 dorsal arm short, densely provided with short hairs on the inner face; 

 ventral arm very long, slightly curved, blade-like, the tip subacute, 

 the arm directed proximad, decussate with its mate of the opposite 

 side. Penis-guard stout, fleshy, near the apex on the ventral sur- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 521 



face, a chitinized, median appendage directed caudad and slightly 

 ventrad, at the acute apex turned strongly dorsad. 



The Cognatella Group. 



Gonomyia < Gonomyia) flavibasis Alexander. 



Gonomyia flavibasis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 317-319 

 (1916). 



A western species that is still known only from the type-locality, 

 Monterey County, California, July 18, 1896. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 27. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, figs. 76-78) with the pleurites 

 long and slender, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a flattened, 

 fleshy lobe that bears many hairs on the dorsal face; first pleural 

 appendage very long, flattened, the apex bent, the appendage with 

 many long, prominent hairs; second appendage complex, consisting 

 of a chitinized hook that is slightly bent; underneath the base of this 

 hook is a fleshy lobe with several short bristles on the outer face, 

 including two powerful bristles at the apex; above the base of the 

 hook is a slender, subchitinized rod that is darkened at the tip. 



Gonomyia iGonomyia) florens Alexander. 



Gonomyia florens Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 316, 317 

 (1916). 



A fly of cold Canadian conditions in the northeastern United 

 States: 



Maine, Penobscot County, Orono, July 12, 1913 (Alexander). 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 18, 1916 (Alexan- 

 der); Gloversville, June 22, 1916 (Alexander); Herkimer County, 

 Indian Castle, June 9 to 13, 1915 (Alexander), the type-locality; 

 Tompkins County, McLean, June 5, 1916 (Alexander). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 28. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, fig. 71) with the pleurites 

 very short and stout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad into a 

 blunt fleshy lobe whose inner margin is fringed with numerous long 

 hairs; a short blunt, fleshy knob (A;) at the base of this lobe, provided 

 with five long hairs on the margin; first pleural appendage (i) slender, 

 originating just below the knob (k), directed proximad, the base 

 enlarged with two or three stout hairs, the tip slightly bifid, the 

 caudal arm with two bristles, the cephalic arm with one bristle; a 

 stout bristle just before the tip on the inner or cephalic side; second 

 pleural appendage (2) a powerful, chitinized hook, slightly curved, 

 directed proximad, bent strongly cephalad toward the apex; third 




522 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



appendage (3) a slender, fleshy rod, beyond the slightly enlarged 

 base bent strongly dorsad so that it lies above the second appendage, 

 directed caudad at the tip which is capped by a short, blunt, chitinized 

 spine. Ninth tergite short, broad, the caudal margin transverse. 

 Ninth sternite with a prominent median knob on the caudal margin,, 

 provided with numerous setigerous tubercles. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia") cognatella Osten Sacken. 



Gonomyia cognatella Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 230 (1859). 



A more southern species than the last, their ranges overlapping 

 in New York State : 



Connecticut, New Haven County, East River, July 6, 1910 (Ely). 



New York, Fulton County, Sport Island, Sacandaga River, June 

 18, 1911, to August 26, 1916 (Alexander); Herkimer County, Indian 

 Castle, June 10 to 13, 1915 (Alexander). 



Maryland, Montgomery County, Cabin John Bridge, May 16, 1909 

 (Knab); Plummers Island, May 24, 1914 (McAtee). 



District of Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken) ; the type-locality. 



Virginia, Fairfax County, Difficult Run, July 25, 1915 (McAtee 

 and Alexander). 



North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, July 16, 

 1912 (Beutenmuller). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 29. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXIX, figs. 73-75) with the pleurites 

 very short and stout, the inner dorsal angle produced caudad as a 

 slender, finger-like lobe, fimbriate with eight or nine long stout hairs 

 on the dorsal inner edge; at the base of the lobe a small, slender, 

 cylindrical knob (k) with three long hairs at the apex; ventrad of 

 this finger-like angle of the pleurite is an elongate, very slender, pale 

 appendage (2) directed caudad and slightly ventrad and proximad, 

 at the apex with two long slender hairs ; pleural appendage (3) directed 

 ventrad on its basal portion, soon bent directly upon itself, dorsad, 

 the tip caudad; the appendage is pale, chitinized, slender, bifid, the 

 lateral arm with the apex somewhat twisted, the proximal arm a 

 slender, pale stylet directed strongly proximad, at the apex with an 

 elongate, slender, black, chitinized spine. Proximad of the base 

 of the knob (fc) is a slender appendage with a prominent hair at the 

 apex and two slightly smaller subterminal hairs. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 523 



The Galactoptera Group. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) galactoptera Bergroth. 



Gonoim/iu <ial<tctoptcra Bergroth; Wiener Entomologische Zeitung, vol. 7, 

 p. 196 (1888). 



This fly is still known only from the type-locality, Sitka, Alaska. 



It is the only New World species of this genus that I have not seen. 



The Noveboracensis Group. 



Gonomyia (.Gonomyia) noveboracensis Alexander. 



Gonomyia noveboracensis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 

 319, 320 (1916). 



A fly of local distribution in the northeastern United States: 



New York, Fulton County, Sport Island, Sacandaga River, June 

 11, 1914 (Alexander), the type-locality. 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 30. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, figs. 79, 80) with the pleurites 

 prominent, elongate, with the dorsal inner edge with a prominent 

 tubercle bearing several hairs, ventral inner edge with a row of large 

 setigerous tubercles; pleurites bearing three small appendages, a 

 small inner dorsal cylindrical appendage (a) directed cephalad, 

 slightly enlarged basally, at the apex bearing three or four prominent 

 hairs; a dorsal apical appendage (b) directed proximad, flattened, 

 enlarged at the apex which bears a row of delicate hairs; a slender, 

 subchitinized ventral apical appendage (c) directed proximad, 

 slightly toothed at the tip and on the lower side just before the tip. 

 Gonapophyses and the penis-guard (Plate XXX, fig. 80) fused into a 

 very large, prominent, cylindrical tube armed with chitinized horns 

 and fleshy lobes; dorsal surface of the tube with two subpendulous 

 fleshy lobes, approximated on the median line, densely provided with 

 short, pale hairs; horns of the cylinder directed caudad and slightly 

 ventrad; outermost horns (a) very broad at the base, tapering to the 

 acute apex which is curved proximad; the next inner pair (b) slender, 

 chitinized, bifid at the apex; innermost pair (c) longest, slender, 

 slightly twisted, narrowed toward the apex. Ninth tergite with a 

 broad, rounded median concavity. Ninth sternite with a broad 

 V-shaped median notch, the adjacent angles produced caudo-laterad 

 as fleshy lobes provided with numerous setigerous punctures. 



The Subcinerea Group. 



Gonomyia i.Gonomyia^ filicauda Alexander. 



Gonomyia filicauda Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 320, 321 

 (1916). 



Still known only from the type-locality, Webster, near Platte 



Canon, Colorado, altitude 9,500 feet, August 24 to 26, 1915 (Oslar), 



35 




524 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



and the base of Haden Peak, Colorado, altitude 12,000 feet, August 

 10, 1915 (Oslar). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 31. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXV, figs. 81, 82) with the pleurites 

 moderately elongated, the dorsal angle produced caudad and slightly 

 dorsad as an elongated fleshy lobe that is sparsely hairy, the hairs 

 on the dorsal face strong, those.on the inner face weak; ventral pleural 

 appendage (v) very long, slender, beyond the base slightly expanded, 

 the apical portion slender, slightly expanded toward the tip, dusky 

 in color and provided with an abundance of long, delicate hairs; 

 dorsal pleural appendage (d) a short, fleshy lobe whose caudal margin 

 is produced into a powerful, curved, heavily chitinized hook, directed 

 inward and dorsad; at the tip of the fleshy portion of the lobe are 

 two stout hairs and a group of about eight smaller ones. Penis-guard 

 pale in color, simple, slender, from an enlarged base, the apex split 

 by a deep rounded notch. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) subcinerea Osten Sacken. 



Gonomyia subcinerea Osten Sacken; Proceedings of The Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, p. 231 (1859). 



This is apparently the commonest and most widely distributed 

 species of the genus. It seems to be dimorphic or else there are two 

 very closely allied forms that often occur together, one of which is 

 sulphur-yellow and brown as described for this species, the other 

 much more grayish and more restricted in its distribution than the 

 typical form. 



Ontario, Kearney, July 27, 28, 1911 (M. C. Van Duzee); Ottawa, 

 August 13, 1912. 



Quebec, Gatineau, July (Beaulieu); Aylmer, June (Beaulne). 



Maine, Aroostook County, Fort Kent, August 28, 1913 (Osborn) ; 

 Piscataquis County, Mt. Katahdin, August 22, 1913 (Alexander); 

 Penobscot County, Orono, June 8 to September 7, 1913 (Alexander); 

 Hancock County, Ellsworth, July 10 to August 16, 1913 (Stan wood). 



Vermont, Windham County, Brattleboro, July 15, 1908 (Johnson). 



Massachusetts, Middlesex County, Riverside, August 9 (Johnson); 

 Auburndale, August 16 (Johnson). 



Connecticut, Middlesex County, Middletown, June 16, 1909 

 (Johnson); New Haven County, East River, July 3, 1910 (Ely). 



New York, Fulton County, Sacandaga Park, June 1, 1914 

 (Alexander); Gloversville, June 3, 1914 (Alexander); Herkimer 

 County, Trenton Falls (Osten Sacken), the type-locality; Indian 

 Castle, June 9 to 13, 1915 (Alexander); Onondaga County, Green 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 525 



Lake, Juno 8, 1915 (Alexander); Tompkins County, Ithaca, May 13 

 to August 7, L910; Albany County, Albany, June 26, 1912 (Young); 

 Helderberg Mountains, June 12, 1915 (Alexander) ; Rockland County, 

 Wes1 Nyack, June 15, 1912 (W. Sheffield); Westchester County, 

 Tarn-town, June 9, 1914 (Frost). 



New Jersey, Bergen County, Ridgewood, July, 1911 (Leonard); 

 Mercer County, Princeton, June 18, 1915 (Alexander). 



Maryland, Montgomery County, Forest Glen, July 6, 1914 

 (McAtee); Plummers Island, May 26, 1914 (Shannon). 



District oj Columbia, Washington (Osten Sacken); the type-locality. 



Virginia, Alexandria County, Rosslyn, May 11, 1913 (Knab); 

 Fairfax County, Four-mile Run, July 13, 1912 (Knab). 



North Carolina, Buncombe County, Black Mountains, June 

 13, 1912 (Beutenmuller); Jones County, Pollocksville, July 8, 1915 

 (Alexander) . 



Michigan, Walnut Lake, June 26-28, 1907 (Needham). 



Saskatchewan, Farewell Creek, September (Mrs. V. A. Anthony). 



Missouri, St. Louis County, West St. Louis, May 12, 1914 (W. V. 

 Warner) . 



Kansas, Pottaw r atomie County, Onaga (Crevecceur) . 



Montana, Beaver Creek, altitude 6,300 feet; August, 1913 (Hunter). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 33. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXVI, figs. 83-85) with the ninth 

 pleurite elongate, rather slender, the dorso-lateral angle produced 

 caudad in a slender, fleshy lobe that is provided with numerous long 

 hairs; ventral pleural appendage (v) a long, slender, pale brown 

 lobe that is almost straight, slightly expanded toward the blunt 

 apex, provided with numerous setigerous punctures; dorsal pleural 

 appendage (d) two-lobed, the caudal lobe a powerful, heavily chitin- 

 ized, curved spine that is directed cephalad at its tip, provided with 

 two or three small, acute denticles before the apex; the ventral arm 

 is again bifid, the caudal portion a sharp, chitinized, feebly curved 

 spine, the cephalic portion a small, subfleshy lobe with several hairs 

 and short spines. Penis-guard very elongate, pale, narrowed at the 

 apex, at the base on either side with a subtending, slender, subchi- 

 tinized rod that is more or less flexible. 



Gonontyia obscura Doane 8 is unrecognizable; the type in the National. 

 Museum is a broken female that is close to subcinerea, although its 



8 Journal of the New York Entomological Society, vol. 8, p. 192, PI. 8> fig. 7.' 

 (1900), described as a Phyllolabis. 




526 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



type-location (Pullman, Whitman County, Washington, June 22, 

 1898) is outside of the range of that species as now known. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) aequalis Alexander. 



Gonomyia cequalis Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 323, 324 

 (1916). 



An extra-limital species (Guatemala, Central America) whose 

 hypopygium has never been figured. 



Male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 86) with the pleurites mod- 

 erately stout, the dorsal angle produced caudad as a very slender, 

 finger-like lobe that is provided with numerous setigerous tubercles; 

 at the base of this lobe on the inner side is a tiny fleshy protuberance 

 directed proximad; ventral pleural appendage (v) a pale fleshy lobe 

 densely covered with short, pale hairs; dorsal pleural appendage 

 (d) irregular, fleshy, directed proximad, the caudal or outer face near 

 the apex with a strong, curved, chitinized hook that is directed 

 dorsad and cephalad, the cephalic or inner face with a row of strong 

 bristles, at the tip longer and more approximated. Ninth tergite 

 almost straight across or slightly concave. Penis-guard rather 

 long, compressed, the median appendage pale, slightly curved. Anal 

 tube (a.t.) broad, prominent, subtended on either side by a concave 

 wing bearing on the caudal outer angle a fimbriate tuft of yellow 

 bristles. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) virgata Doane. 



Gonomyia virgata Doane; Journal of the New York Entomological Society, 

 vol. 8, p. 189, PI. 7, fig. 21 (1900). 



A western species with the following rather restricted range: 



Washington, Pacific County, Tokeland (Doane), the type-locality. 



California, Humboldt County, Eureka, June 6, 1903 (H. S. Barber). 



The wing is shown on Plate XXVI, fig. 32. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 87) with the ninth pleurites 

 rather elongate, the dorsal inner angle produced caudad as a slender, 

 cylindrical, fleshy lobe that bears numerous long pale hairs; ventral 

 pleural appendage (v) prominent, directed caudad, narrowed at the 

 base, the apex a slight chitinized tooth directed proximad; second 

 pleural appendage (2) a flattened or concave lobe, heavily chitinized 

 at the apex which is broad, split into two acute teeth, of which the 

 proximal one is the larger; dorsal pleural appendage (d) small, fleshy, 

 bent slightly cephalad at the tip which bears two elongate bristles; 

 cephalic or inner face of the appendage bearing numerous setigerous 

 tubercles. Ninth tergite large, the caudal margin feebly convex, 

 bearing a short, pointed tooth just inside the base of the pleurite. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 527 



Ninth sternite almost straight across, or slightly narrowed to the 

 truncated apex. 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) unicolor Alexander. 



Gonorhyia unicolor Alexander; Proceedings of the United States National 

 Museum, vol. 44, p. 507, PI. 66, fig. 15 (1913 



An extra-limital species (Guatemala, Central America) included 

 here to complete the data. 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 89) with the pleurites 

 moderately stout and elongated, the dorsal angle not produced; 

 ventral pleural appendage (v) a double lobe, dark colored, sub- 

 chitinized, the inner arm stout-cylindrical with the tip acute and 

 the inner side with two or three hairs; the outer and more ventral 

 arm slender, curved and bearing near the tip two stout divergent 

 hairs; dorsal pleural appendage (d) a subcylindrical fleshy lobe from 

 an enlarged base, at the apex with two powerful bristles; cephalic 

 or inner face with four small hairs that are evenly spaced. Ninth 

 tergite almost straight across or slightly concave. Penis-guard 

 (Plate XXX, fig. 88) seen from beneath, a powerful, quadrangular 

 chitinized base whose caudal angle is a ventrally directed hook, the 

 base subtended on either side by short gonapophyses (g) that end 

 in a sharp, conical spine ; from above and dorsad of the quadrangular 

 base arise two cylindrical, pointed, chitinized arms that are diver- 

 gent. 



- 



Gonomyia (Gonomyia) mexicana Alexander. 



Gonomyia mexicana Alexander; Canadian Entomologist, vol. 48, pp. 321, 322 

 (1916). 



An extra-limital species described from Cordoba, State of Vera 

 Cruz, Mexico, May 8, 1908 (Knab). 



The male hypopygium (Plate XXX, fig. 91) with the pleurites 

 elongate, though rather stout; ventral pleural appendage (v) a long, 

 pale lobe, subcylindrical, blunt at the apex and bearing sparse, 

 elongate hairs; second pleural appendage strongly chitinized, the tip 

 acute, curved; dorsal pleural appendage (d) rather short, cylindrical, 

 fleshy, the cephalic or inner angle of the apex with two powerful 

 bristles; caudal or outer angle of the apex with two smaller hairs. 

 Ninth tergite rather short, the caudal margin straight or nearly so. 

 Penis-guard (Plate XXX, fig. 90) very long and pale, the apex bifid 

 by a deep U-shaped notch, each lobe provided with long hairs; on 

 the ventral face arises a slender, rod-like, median appendage, sparsely 

 short-hairy at the apex and down the ventral face; the divergent 

 subtending arms are slender, somewhat flattened, the apex produced 




528 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



into a slender cylindrical point, the outer or ventral margin with a 

 few sharp, appressed teeth. 



RHABDOMASTIX Skuse. 



Rhabdomastix Skuse; Proceedings of the Linnsean Society of New South Wales, 

 series 2, vol. 4, pp. 828, 829 (1889). 



Subgenus SACANDAGA Alexander. 

 Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) monticola sp. n. 



Coloration grayish black; wings whitish hyaline with an indistinct 

 pale brown stigma; cross-vein r present but faint; cell R 2 small; cell 

 1st M 2 elongate with the basal deflection of Ciii inserted at about 

 mid-length. 



Male. — Length about 5.5 mm.; wing, 6 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brownish black. Antennae black, the 

 flagellar segments with a long, pale pubescence; flagellar segments 

 narrowed, especially terminally. Head black with a sparse grayish 

 bloom. 



Mesonotum black with a sparse grayish yellow pollen; tuberculate 

 pits on the extreme cephalic margin of the sclerite. Pleura clearer 

 gray. Halteres pale, the knobs enlarged, the stem a little darkened 

 basally. Legs with the coxae black with a sparse gray bloom; tro- 

 chanters brown; femora dark brown; tibiae yellowish brown, a little 

 darkened at the base and more narrowly at the tips; tarsal seg- 

 ment one and all except the tip of two yellowish brown; remainder 

 of the tarsi dark brown. Wings subhyaline, the stigma fairly distinct, 

 oval, pale brown; veins dark brown, Sc paler. Venation (Plate 

 XXVII, fig. 41) with Rs elongate; cell R 2 small, vein ^ 2 being 

 short, oblique; R 3 arcuated; cross-vein r present but very indistinct, 

 bisecting the stigma; cell 1st M 2 rectangular, somewhat elongated, 

 the veins issuing from it not elongated, divergent; basal deflection 

 of Qui almost mid-length of cell 1st M 2 . 



Abdomen dark brownish black. 



Habitat. — Western America. 



Holotype, d% Kokanee Mountain, British Columbia, altitude 

 8,000 feet, August 11, 1903 (R. P. Currie). 



Paratopotypes, 3 cf's. 



Type in the collection of the United States National Museum. 



This species was formerly determined as being R. (S.) caudata 

 Lundbeck 9 in the first part of this series, but additional material 



9 Diptera groenlandica, Vidensk. Meddel. fra den naturh. Foren., p. 267, 

 PL 6, fig. 18 (1898); as a Goniomyia, subgenus Empeda. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 529 



shows that the species is distinct. It serves to connect the gen- 

 eralized caudata with the specialized members of the subgenus 

 {flava, parva). The small cell R 2 and the elongate cell 1st .1/, with tin- 

 short, divergent veins issuing from it, and the basal deflection of 

 Cui inserted at nearly midlength of it serve to separate the form 

 from caudata. This latter species is described and figured in a 

 publication that is not readily accessible to the student, and its 

 venation is shown on Plate XXVII, fig. 42. With caudata this new 

 species agrees in the possession of the radial cross-vein, but this is 

 here very faint and evidently in process of being eliminated. In 

 R. flava (Plate XXVII, fig. 43) the cross-vein is lacking. 



In regard to the genus Rhabdomastix Skuse it will be noted that 

 Kertesz gives the date of Skuse's paper on the Limnobinse as 1890; 

 the first separates of this article are dated September 25, 1889, and 

 it is this date that has been adopted. 



PTEROCHIONEA gen. n. 



Palpi short, four-segmented, the segments • subequal. Antennse 

 11-segmented, the first segment of the scape longer than the second; 

 second segment narrow-subglobular, not strikingly wider than the 

 adjacent segments; first segment of the flagellum elongate, tapering- 

 slight ly to the tip, formed by the fusion of five segments as determined 

 by the verticils, near the tip with a faint suture that passes about 

 half-way across the segment on the verticillate side; segments four to 

 ten moderately elongated, cylindrical, truncated at both ends (Plate 

 XXXI, fig. 93) with a strong series of verticils; terminal segment 

 formed by the fusion of two segments as determined by the verticils. 

 Wings moderately broad (Plate XXVII, fig. 44); Sc moderately elon- 

 gated ending just beyond the end of Rs, Sc 2 at its tip; Rs long, strongly 

 arcuated at its origin; cross-vein r present; cell 1st M z elongate, the 

 deflection of M 3 over twice the length of the median cross-vein; cell 

 Mi present; basal deflection of Cui at the fork of M; second anal vein 

 short, ending before the origin of the sector. Legs hairy, not incras- 

 sated; tibiae without spurs. Male hypopygium powerful (Plate 

 X XXI. fig. 94), suggesting the Chionea type, the pleural pieces stout, 

 cylindrical, with a strong pleural appendage, somewhat curved, nearly 

 as long as the pleurites; ventral lobe small, rounded, hairy. 



Genotype. — Pterochionea bradleyi sp. n. (Western Nearctic region.) 



This new genus is closest to Crypteria Bergroth 10 of the northern 



Pahearctic region in the curious fusion of the five basal segments of 



10 .Ada Soc. pro Faun. <t Fl<>r. Finn., vol. 37, Xo. 6, pp. 3-7, figs. 1-4 (1913). 




530 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



the antennae; however, this fusion-segment is merely elongated and 

 does not show the elongate-conical shape of the segment in Crypteria 

 and the even more accentuated condition of Chionea. Specimens of 

 Chionea valga Harris before me show eight flagellar segments beyond 

 the fusion-segment, the basal ones short, becoming more and more 

 attenuated toward the tip of the organ. Therefore, in the reduction 

 of the antemial segments by the fusion of the basal flagellar segments, 

 Chionea also shows a very close relationship to Crypteria and Ptero- 

 chionea. I certainly think that Bergroth is right in surmising a 

 relationship between his Crypteria and the abnormal, wingless 

 Chionea, and Pterochionea may now be added to the list of possible 

 CTmmea-precursors. This interpretation would remove Chionea 

 from the neighborhood of Trimicra and Symplecta and place it at the 

 end of the Eriopterine series along with Cladura and the present 

 genus. 



The two winged genera of this group may be separated as follows: 



1. Antennae with the second segment enlarged, globular; the two 

 apical segments of the flagellum entirely distinct; cross-vein 

 r absent ; second anal vein very elongate, extending beyond 

 midlength of the radial sector; hypopygium with the pleural 

 pieces slender with two small, subequal appendages. (North- 

 western Palsearctic.) Crypteria Bergroth. 



Antennae with the second segment not enlarged; the two apical 

 segments of the flagellum fused; cross-vein r present; second 

 anal vein short, not reaching to the base of the sector; hypopy- 

 gium with the pleural pieces stout-cylindrical with a strong, 

 powerful dorsal appendage that is almost as long as the 

 pleurite. (Northwestern Nearctic.) Pterochionea gen. n. 



Pterochionea bradleyi sp. n. 



Antennae brown, of eleven segments; wings with cell Mi present; 

 male hypopygium strong and powerful. 



Male. — Length, 5 mm.; wing, 5.6 mm. Fore leg, femur, 3.6 mm.; 

 tibia, 3.8 mm.; hind leg, femur, 4.1 mm.; tibia, 4 mm. 



The species is described from alcoholic material. 



Rostrum short, light brown; palpi brown. Antennae dark brown; 

 Head yellowish brown. 



Thoracic dorsum dull yellow with indistinct darker stripes on the 

 praescutum. Pleura yellowish. Halteres pale. Legs with the coxae 

 and trochanters pale yellow; femora light brownish yellow, a little 

 darkened apically, the fore femora darker, being only a little paler 

 at the base; tibiae and tarsi brown. Wings nearly hyaline, the 

 stigma indistinct; veins dark brown, subcosta pale. Venation (Plate 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 531 



XXVII, fig. 44): basal deflection of TtVe very short or obliterated, 

 the cross-vein r-m being correspondingly longer, arcuated; cell Mi 

 short, about one-half as long as its petiole. 



Abdomen short, the tergites dark brown, the hypopygium even 

 darker. Male hypopygium (Plate XXXI, fig. 94) powerfully 

 enlarged, the pleurites not conspicuously elongated ending in a 

 rounded ventral lobe that is covered with numerous hairs; the single 

 pleural appendage a powerful curved arm that is rather blunt at the 

 tip, with numerous long hairs on the inner face and at the apex 

 where they are exceedingly numerous and spinous, at the extreme 

 apex very tiny. 



Habitat. — -British Columbia. 



Holotype, d\ Rogers Pass, British Columbia, August 9, 1915 

 (Bradley). 



Allotype, 9 , in copula with the type. 



Type, mounted in balsam, in the collection of Cornell University. 



This interesting crane-fly is dedicated to the collector, Dr. J. 

 Chester Bradley, of Cornell University, to whom I am indebted for 

 assistance and advice upon many subjects. 



Tribe Limnophilini. 



LIMNOPHILA Macquart. 



Limnopkila Macquart; Suit a Buffon, vol. 1, Histoire Naturelle Dipteres, 

 p. 94 (1834 i. 



Limnophila irrorata Johnson. 



Limnophila irrorata Johnson; Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural 

 History, vol. 34, No. 5, pp. 127, 128, PI. 16, fig. 17 (1909). 



This interesting species was described from the unique female 

 found floating dead in a water receptacle at Riverton, New Jersey, 

 and had apparently not been found since that time. The fly was 

 rediscovered in 1915 while the author was searching for Venus 

 fly-traps, Dioncea muscipula Ell., near Jacksonville, North Carolina. 

 The male sex is here described and the specimen made the allotype : 



Male. — -Length 7.6-7.8 mm.; wing, 7-7.3 mm. Agrees closely 

 with the female, but the head a little more brownish; petiole of cell 

 R 2 of the wings very short, not as long as the r-m cross-vein; basal 

 deflection of Cn x inserted beyond mid-length of cell 1st M t . 



Allotype, <?, Camp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 

 9, 1915 (Alexander). 



Allotype in the collection of the author. 



The following notes on the natural habitat of the species may be 

 given: 




532 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



At Camp Perry, Onslow County, North Carolina, July 9, 1915, 

 •on a small branch of the New River. The flies occurred in a typical 

 sweet-gum swamp, the dominant forest cover being the Liquidambar, 

 Ilex opaca, Quercus michauxi, Acer rubrum, Fraxinus sp., with 

 considerable Liriodendron and a little Pinus tceda, growing in very wet 

 to moist soil, and the undergrowth was very rank and luxuriant, 

 consisting of the all-dominant lizards-tail, Saururus cernuus, from 

 which plant the flies were swept; other plants, as Osmunda regalis, 

 Onoclea sensibilis, Carpinus caroliniana and Callicarpa americana, 

 being common. The following crane-flies were associated with this 

 species : 



Gonomyia sulphurella, rare; G. manca, common; Gnophomyia 

 tristissima, uncommon; Epiphragma solatrix, rare; Limnophila 

 macrocera, uncommon; L. tenuipes and luteipennis abundant; Pen- 

 thoptera albitarsis, common; Brachypremna dispellens, abundant, 

 many being heavily infested with a species of Trombidium; Oropeza 

 subalbipes, rare; Tipula tricolor, common; T. perlongipes, rare; 

 Bittacomorpha clavipes and Ptychoptera rufocincta, common. 



It should be here noted that there is a Polymoria irrorata Philippi 11 

 that in all probability is a Limnophila and prior to the present 

 species. This apparent status of Polymoria has been pointed out 

 by the author in another paper. 12 



Limnophila strepens sp. n. 



Head light gray with short, brown hairs; thorax yellowish brown 

 with a darker median stripe on the prsescutum; legs brownish-yellow, 

 the femora and tibiae not darkened at their apices. 



Male. — Length, about 12 mm.; wing, 11.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennas short, light brown, the 

 flagellar segments gradually narrowed and lengthened toward the 

 tip of the organ; verticils long, black. Head light gray with numer- 

 ous, rather short brown hairs, inserted in blackish punctures. 



Mesonotum light yellowish brown with a broad darker reddish 

 brown median stripe; lateral stripes indistinct; lobes of the scutum 

 reddish brown, their posterior margin and the scutellum more 

 yellowish; postnotum pale reddish with a sparse gray bloom. Pleura 

 reddish brown with a sparse gray bloom. Halteres pale, the knobs 

 darker at their tips. Legs with the coxae reddish yellow; trochanters 

 dull yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow throughout; tarsi 



11 Verh. zool.-bot. Ges. Wien. vol. 15, p. 608, PI. 23, fig. 3 (1865). 



12 Proc. U. S. National Museum, vol. 44, pp. 481, 490 and 547 (1913). 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 533 



brown. Wings subhyaline, costal region more yellowish; apex of 

 the wing broadly* but indistinctly darkened; stigma prominent, dark 

 brown; a pale brown seam on the deflection of R i+i . Venation: 

 L's moderate in length, somewhat angulated at its origin; R 2 ^ about 

 equal to or a little shorter than that portion of R 2 before the radial 

 cross-vein; r at the tip of Ri) basal deflection of Ciii under the middle 



of cell Is! M 2 . 



Abdominal tergites dull yellow, unmarked; sternites a little lighter 

 yellow, the eighth segment and the caudal portions of the seventh a 

 little more brownish. 



Habitat. — Western United States. 



Holotype, d\ Marin County, California (Coll. Hy. Edwards, 

 No. 814). 



Type in the collection of the American Museum of Natural History. 



Related to flavipila Doane which has the hairs on the head longer 

 and light yellow 7 in color, the mesonotum darker brown, the pleura 

 light gray, the tips of the femora and tibise dark brown, wings with 

 a more yellowish tinge, especially near the costa, R 2 +z much shorter 

 than that portion of R 2 before the radial cross-vein. In flavipila 

 the head and first antennal segment are light gray, not brown as 

 described by Doane. 



Limnophila edwardi sp. n. 



Antennae elongated; cell Mi of the wings absent; thorax with dark 

 stripes on the praescutum. 



Male. — Length, 7.2 mm.; wing, 8 mm.; antenna? about 5 mm. 



Rostrum dull yellow, the palpi brownish black. Antennas dark 

 brown, the flagellar segments greatly elongated with outspreading 

 pubescence. Head dark brownish black with a sparse grayish 

 bloom. 



Thorax brownish yellow, the praescutum with three broad, dark 

 brown stripes, the middle one broadest, confluent behind with the 

 short lateral stripes; scutum, scutellum and postnotum dark brown. 

 Pleura brownish yellow. Halteres pale, the knobs darker, brown. 

 Legs with the coxae, trochanters and bases of the femora dull yellow; 

 remainder of the legs dark brown. 'Wings with a faint brownish 

 tinge; stigma elongate-oval, dark brown; veins dark brown. Vena- 

 tion (Plate XXVII, fig. 45): Rs elongate, in a line with R 2+3 ; R 2+3 

 longer than the basal deflection of Cui\ cross-vein r at the fork of 

 R 2+3 ; cell 3/i lacking. 



Abdomen dark brown, the hypopygium more yellowish. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 




534 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Holotype, cf, Simmons Woods, Gloversville, Fulton County, New 

 York, altitude 900 feet, June 22, 1916 (Alexander). 



This is the first Eastern species that has the antennae elongated 

 and cell Mi of the wings lacking at the same time. It bears a great 

 resemblance to L. tenuipes Say, a species with cell Mi present and the 

 venational details slightly different. 



The type was taken in a cold woods with decided Canadian floral 

 tendencies, in association with the following Tipulidse: 



Dicranomyia pubipennis, Ormosia monticola, 0. rubella, Erioptera 

 stigmatica, Gonomyia florens, Limnophila toxoneura, L. areolata, 

 L. alleni, L. fuscovaria, L. munda, Adelphomyia ?ninuta, Ula elegans, 

 Rhaphidolabis rubescens, Tricyphona calcar, Tipula oropezoides, 

 T. hermannia and T. monticola. 



I dedicate this species to Thomas Edward, the eminent Scotch 

 naturalist, the story of whose life and struggles 13 in the interests of 

 natural science has always done much to encourage me in this work. 



Limnophila sylvia sp. n. 



Antennae short; cell Mi of the wings absent; thorax with dark 

 stripes on the praescutum; pleura without stripes. 



Male. — Length, 5-5.5 mm.; wing, 6.5-7.6 mm. 



Rostrum brownish yellow, the palpi dark brown. Antennae short, 

 the scapal segments dull yellow, flagellum dark brown; flagellar 

 segments oval. Head brown with a sparse grayish bloom. 



Thorax dull light yellow, the praescutum with three dark brown 

 stripes, the lateral stripes confluent with the median stripe; scutum 

 yellow with the lobes largely dark brown; scutellum yellow; post- 

 notum brownish yellow. Pleura yellow. Halteres pale, the knobs 

 brownish. Legs with the coxae and trochanters dull yellow; femora 

 dull yellow, the tips darker brown; tibiae yellowish brown, tipped with 

 brownish; metatarsi brownish yellow, the remainder of the tarsi dark 

 brown. Wings with a slight grayish tinge; stigma rather indistinct, 

 brownish; veins dark brown. Venation (Plate XXVII, fig. 46): 

 R2+3 rather elongated, about equal to the basal deflection of Cui) 

 cross-vein r at the tip of Ri and situated on R 2 ; deflection of R 4 + 5 

 arcuated, nearer the wing-root than is the r-ra cross-vein; cell Mi 

 absent; basal deflection of Ciii variable in position, at the fork of M, 

 just beyond the fork of M to about one-third the length of the cell 

 1st M s . 



Abdominal tergites dark brown; sternites dull brownish yellow, 



13 Life of a Scotch Naturalist: Thomas Edward, associate of the Linnsean 

 Society, by Samuel Smiles (Harper & Bros., 1877). 




1916.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 535 



the caudal margins a little brighter; eighth and ninth sternites dark 

 brown. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, d" , Mountain Lake, Fulton County, New York, altitude 

 1,600 feet, June 13, 1916 (Alexander). 



Paratopotypes, 2 cf's. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This species was associated with Erioptera nyctops, and an account 

 of the ecological conditions and associates will be found under the 

 account of that species. 



L. sylvia is quite distinct from any of the described species that 

 lack cell Mi of the wings. From the quadrata group it differs in 

 having vein R 2 long, not tending to be oblique, deflection of R i+b 

 nearer the wing-root than is r-m, basal deflection of Cih nearer to the 

 base of cell 1st Mi, etc.; from the lenta group it differs in the long 

 sector; from emmelina, it differs in the petiolate cell R 2 , and from 

 noveboracensis it differs in having Rs almost in a line with R 2 ^ 3 , the 

 dark brown stripes on the praescutum, etc. 



POLYMERA Wiedemann. 



Polymera Wiedemann; Diptera exotica, vol. 1, p. 40 (1821). 



Polymera georgiae Alexander. 



Polymera georgice Alexander; Psyche, vol. IS, pp. 199, 200, PL 16, fig. 5 

 (1911). 



This is the only known species of the genus as yet found within 

 our limits and, so far as known, it is confined to the southeastern 

 United States. P. obscura Macquart, of northern South America 

 and Middle America, ranges into Cuba and may appear in the 

 Miami section of Florida. P. geniculata Alexander of Porto Rico is 

 also regional. The distribution of Polymera georgice is as follows: 



South Carolina, Georgetown County, South Island, August 19, 

 1915 (Alexander). 



Georgia, Decatur County, Spring Creek, July 20, 1912 (Bradley); 

 Glynn County, St. Simons Island, April, May, 1911 (Bradley), the 

 type-locality; Charlton County, Billy's Island, Okefinokee Swamp, 

 June 20, 1912 (Bradley). 



Florida, Dade County, Biscayne Bay (Slosson). 



The only specimen that I have ever seen alive was taken in a salt- 

 marsh palmetto association on South Island, South Carolina, at the 

 east end of the causeway between South and Cat Islands. The 

 association was a palmetto island surrounded on the west by a perfect 

 sea of the salt rush (J uncus Roemerianus). The forest cover con- 




536 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



sisted of the dominant palmetto (Sabal Palmetto (Walt) R. & S.), 

 live oak, Quercus virginiana, heavily draped with Spanish moss, 

 Tillandsia, and the coast white cedar, Chamcecyparis thuyoides. The 

 shrubbery consisted of a mixed growth of Myrica carolinensis> 

 common; Ilex vomitoria, several; Callicarpa americana, abundant, 

 and two shrubby Composites, Iva frutescens and Borrichia frutescens r 

 common. The undergrowth from which the Tipulids were swept 

 consisted of great beds of Polygonum punctatum, with a more sparse 

 admixture of spike grass, Distichlis spicata; Hydrocotyle umbellata; 

 and the Verbenaceous plants, Lippia nodiflora and Verbena 

 caroliniana. u 



The Tipulidse of the above floral association showed a strong 

 Floridian tendency, the associates of Polymera being as follows: 



Dicranomyia distans, abundant; D. floridana, rare; Teucholabis 

 carolinensis, rare; Gonomyia (Leiponeura) puer, rare; G. (Gonomyella) 

 slossonce, several; Erioptera {Mesocyphona) parva, abundant, and 

 Brachypremna dispellens, common. 



Tribe Pedicini. 



TRICYPHONA Zetterstedt. 



1838. Tricyphona Zetterstedt; Insecta Lapponica, Dittera, p. Sol. 

 This genus, like the tribe Pedicini in general, has a northern 

 distribution throughout the world. There are seven species now 

 known in the eastern United States which may be summarized as 

 follows : 



Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII. fig. 47.) 



Canadian and Transitional-Canadian zones of the eastern United 

 States and Canada. One of our commonest and best-known crane- 

 flies, ranging from Ontario, Quebec and Newfoundland south (in the 

 mountains) to Georgia and west to Michigan. It is also recorded 

 from Europe, but a very careful comparison with abundant material 

 and a critical study of the male hypopygium must be made before 

 these records can.be finally accepted. The fly is abundant in swamps 

 and low swales. In New York and New England it is on the wing 

 from May 12 to September 28, while in the vicinity of Washington 

 it appears even earlier (Great Falls, Virginia, April 20, 1913 (Knab)). 



Tricyphona calcar Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 48.) 



Canadian life-zone of northeastern America, ranging from the 

 Hudsons Bay region, Ontario and Quebec south (in the mountains) 



14 I am indebted to Mr. W. L. McAtee, of the United States Biological Survey,, 

 for his kindness in determining many of the above-listed plants. 




1910.| NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 537 



to North Carolina. It is a species of low swampy areas, though 

 usually more wooded than that frequented by inconstans. In New- 

 York and New England it flies from May 22 to October 1, being 

 abundant in late May and early June, reappearing the latter half of 

 July and being common throughout August and early September. 

 The late summer specimens probably represent a new species, the 

 females having the wings very reduced in size. 



Tricyphona auripennis Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 49.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, known only 

 from New Hampshire, Massachusetts (the type-locality) and New 

 York. It flies in June. The only specimens ever seen alive by the 

 author occurred at Indian Castle, Herkimer County, New York, 

 June 10 to 13, 1915; they were found sitting motionless on the 

 perpendicular face of a small cliff, lurking in small crevices of the 

 rock. The cliff is low, of Utica shale, completely saturated by 

 percolating water and well-shaded by large hemlocks, arbor vitae,. 

 yellow birch, mountain maple, Cornus circinata, etc., and with a 

 sparse vegetation of Impatiens biflora, Geranium Robertianum, 

 Collinsonia canadensis, Cystopteris bulbifera and Equisetum arvense. 



Tricyphona hyperborea Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 50.) 



A fly of the Hudsonian and possibly the Canadian life-zones of 

 northeastern America and still very rare in collections. It was 

 described from Labrador, and a few specimens have been taken on 

 Mt. Washington, New Hampshire; these specimens are in the col- 

 lections of the Boston Society of Natural History and the United 

 States National Museum. 



Tricyphona katahdin Alexander. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 51.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, a late 

 summer species flying during the latter half of August. 



Tricyphona vernalis Osten Sacker. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 52.) 



Canadian and Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern 

 United States. One of our early-flying species, though appearing 

 later, as a rule, than paludicola. It ranges from Maine and New 

 Hampshire south (in the mountains) to Georgia, and is found along 

 small streams, temporary and permanent, where the water runs 

 rapidly. The flies may be swept from vegetation or are found in 

 small swarms of eight to ten individuals near the water. In New 

 York and New England it is on the wing in late May, abundant in 

 June and persisting into July. Further south it flies in April or 

 even the last of March, reappearing in late September. 




538 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Trioyphona paludicola sp. n. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 53.) 



Canadian-Transitional life-zone of the northeastern United States, 

 as yet known only from New York. It flies in early spring (May 

 7-20), and is found in swampy, stagnant localities. 



Tricyphona paludicola sp. n. 



Antenna? dark brown throughout; head and thorax grayish brown, 

 the mesonotal prsescutum with three dark brown stripes, the middle 

 one split by a broad line of the ground-color; abdomen brown, the 

 tergites uniform in color; wings almost unicolorous, the dark markings 

 reduced to punctiform dots and narrow seams. 



Male. — Length, 7.6-8 mm.; wing, 8.6-8.7 mm. 



Female. — Length, 10.5-10.9 mm.; wing, 10.5-10.8 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae black, the flagellar 

 segments shortened and gradually narrowed. Head grayish brown. 



Mesonotal prsescutum pale grayish brown with three dark brown 

 stripes, the middle stripe very, broad and more or less bisected by a 

 narrow, median vitta of the ground-color, lateral stripes short, 

 narrow; scutum gray, the lobes with a rounded dark brown spot; 

 scutellum and postnotum light gray. Pleura light gray, the dorso- 

 pleural membranes pale brown. Halteres light brown, the knobs 

 dark brown. Legs with the coxae reddish, gray pruinose ; trochanters 

 brownish yellow; femora dark brown, the fore pair with the basal 

 quarter a little brightened, middle pair with the basal third, hind 

 pair with about the basal half brightened; tibia} and tarsi dark brown. 

 Wings grayish subhyaline, the costal cells more suffused, brownish 

 yellow; tiny dark brown dots at Sc 2 , origin of Rs, tip of Sc h cross-vein 

 r, above the fork of Rs, cross-vein r-m and a narrow seam along the 

 basal deflection of Cur, paler gray clouds underneath the tip of 

 R 2 +z and near the tip of 2nd A; veins dark brown, Sc more yellowish. 

 Venation (Plate XXVIII, fig. 53): distance between Sc 2 and the 

 origin of the sector about equal to the sector alone; Rs angulated 

 and often spurred at origin; r at the tip of Ri) distance between the 

 fork of Rs and cross-vein r-m about equal to that cross-vein; petiole 

 of cell # 3 a little longer than r-m; cell 1st M 2 closed, long and narrow; 

 cell Mi present, usually longer than its petiole; cross-vein m-cu 

 present or barely obliterated by the fusion of the adjacent veins. 



Abdominal tergites dark grayish brown; sternites similar with the 

 basal segments indistinctly ringed with paler; hypopygium con- 

 colorous with the rest of the abdomen; valves of the ovipositor 

 brownish yellow. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 




1916.] \\ll RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 539 



Holotype, d", McLean, Tompkins County, New York, May 13, 

 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, ? , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 24 tf's, 1 9 ; 1 d 1 , 1 9 , on May 20, 1916 (P. A. 

 Claassen). 



The type is in the collection of the author; Mr. Claassen has 

 deposited his paratypes in the collection of the University of Kansas. 



As is very frequent in this genus of flies, abnormalities of the 

 wing-venation often occur; one male specimen has cell 1st M 2 open 

 by the atrophy of the median cross-vein in both wings; four other 

 males in the series show adventitious cross-veins or spurs in various 

 cells of the wings. 



When Osten Sacken described Tricyphona vernalis, 15 he had only 

 a male and a female specimen from Washington, D. C, taken in 

 April, these showing the pale antenna! bases, cingulated abdomen 

 and heavily patterned wings that are characteristic of vernalis. The 

 specimens from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, were added 

 in the Monographs, p. 271. I am greatly indebted to Mr. C. W. 

 Johnson for his kindness in examining the types of vernalis and 

 making notes upon them. Abundant material that I have determined 

 as vernalis agree in all details with Osten Sacken's descriptions, 

 except that the capillary median ground vitta on the prsescutum is 

 less distinct than the description implies. 



The gray or brownish gray species of this section of Tricyphona 

 may be separated by the following key: 



1. Scape of the antennae yellowish or brownish yellow, the flagelluin 

 much darker, dark brown; abdominal tergites brown, the 

 margins of the segments pale producing a cingulated appear- 

 ance; wings with large rounded clouds at the tips of the 



longitudinal veins and along the cross-veins 



vernalis Osten Sacken. 



Scape of the antennae dark brown, concolorous with the flagellum; 



abdominal tergites brown, unbanded; wings with the pattern 



almost obsolete, reduced to tiny dots and seams 



paludicola, sp. n. 



The following ecological notes on Tricyphona paludicola are taken 

 from my field notes, dated May 13, 1916, 10-11 A.M., at the McLean 

 bogs where we were engaged in making a biological survey of the 

 region under the personal direction of Dr. James G. Needham. 



15 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 pp. 291, 292, 1861, as Amalopis. 

 36 




540 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The species occurs in the Alnus association a short distance east 

 of Round Pond, in company with Tipula dejecta Walker, the only 

 other crane-fly on the wing at this date and hour. 



The water is stagnant or nearly so with the little pools filled with 

 an algal growth, kindly determined for me by Dr. J. R. Schramm, of 

 Cornell University, as being near Microspora and Tribonema, abun- 

 dant; (Edegonium sp. and Spirogyra sp., the latter conjugating 

 laterally, and some Mougeotia, Vaucheria, etc., with many Diatoms; 

 in addition to these there is a dense growth of young seedlings 

 of Impatiens hi flora. The mud is so soft that it is necessary to 

 wade knee-deep in order to explore this region. There is still ice 

 down underneath the stratum and the Alnus is just coming into leaf, 

 allowing the sun to light up the ground underneath. The dominant 

 herbaceous plants at this time were Carex aquatilis, Saxifraga pennsyl- 

 vanica, with the plants in bud and the stalks not more than six to 

 nine inches high, and Caltha palustris in full flower. 



There is no doubt but that the Tipula and the present species both 

 emerged from the stagnant pools formed in the marsh adjoining- 

 Grassy Creek. Both species of crane-flies were common, but the 

 Tipula was more in evidence by its larger size and habit of flying. 

 The Tricyphona was usually found resting on the saxifrage or on the 

 inclined side of alder limbs, the males often fluttering about from 

 place to place a short distance above the ground, never very rapidly. 

 The females were found resting on the alder stems, inactive, and the 

 males were presumably searching for them. 



In the afternoon when the warmth of the sun made itself felt, 

 none of the Tricyphona and only a few of the Tipula were in evidence 

 in this haunt, their places having been taken by dense swarms of 

 Chironomiclae and a very few of the crane-fly, Erioptera septemtrionis 

 Osten Sacken. 



On May 20, Mr. P. A. Claassen found a male and a female in his 

 tent-traps set near this place, proving that the immature stages are 

 spent in the mud beneath. 



RHAPHIDOLABIS Osten Sacken. 



Rhaphidolabis Osten Sacken; Monographs of the Diptera of North America, 

 pt, 4, p. 284 (1869). 



Subgenus RHAPHIDOLABINA subgen. n. 



Similar to Rhaphidolabis s. s., differing as follows: Antennae 

 15-segmented, the first eight segments of the flagellum normal, 

 cylindrical, bearing strong hairs at about midlength, these alternating 




191G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 541 



in their arrangement, being on the same face on the even segments; 

 the ninth and eleventh segments are smaller and lie between the 

 long, verticillate tenth and twelfth segments; thirteenth segment of 

 the fiagellum long, sigmoid, bearing three long hairs at the apex. 

 Wings with the median cross-vein present, connecting M l+2 with 

 .1/.. 



Type of the subgenus, Rhaphidolabis flaveola Osten Sacken. 



The curious pallid fly that I have deemed best to separate from 

 the other species of the genus is anomalous in many respects and 

 may eventually be placed nearer to Tricyphona, where indeed it was 

 provisionally assigned by Needham. 16 It is certainly more distinct 

 from Rhaphidolabis than is Plectromyia which has herein been con- 

 sidered to have subgeneric value. Under these circumstances it 

 may be better to call the genus Plectromyia, that name having 

 page-priority over Rhaphidolabis, but for the present the latter name 

 has been retained. 



The American species of the genus may be separated by the 

 following key: 



1. Antennse 15-segmented; cross- vein m present (subgenus Rhaphi- 



dolabina). (Northeastern United States.) 



flaveola Osten Sacken. 

 Antennse 13-segmented; cross-vein m absent 2 



2. Cell Mi absent (subgenus Plectromyia). (Northeastern United 



States.) modesta Osten Sacken. 



Cell Mi present (subgenus Rhaphidolabis) 3 



3. Cell Rz petiolate 4 



Cell R 2 sessile 6 



4. Wings whitish hyaline with a dark brown, oval stigma. (Eastern 



Rocky Mountain region.) neomexicana Alexander. 



Wings without a clearly denned, dark brown stigma 5 



5. Antennse of the male elongated; Rs long, straight, the distance 



between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector being less than the 



length of the sector. (Western United States.) 



polymeroides Alexander. 



Antennse of the male short; Rs short, arcuated, the distance 



between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about two times the 



length of the sector. (Eastern United States.) 



tenuipes Osten Sacken. 



6. Coloration grayish brown, the prsescutum with three dark brown 



stripes; abdomen dark brown with paler caudal margins to the 

 segments; wings very pale brown, the radial sector very short, 



arcuated or angulated. (Northeastern United States.) 



cayuga sp. n. 



16 Twenty-third Report of the New York State Entomologist, PL 25, fig. 3, 

 1907. as Amalopis. 




542 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Coloration reddish brown, the prsescutum with three indistinct 

 stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the hypopygium bright 

 yellow; wings nearly hyaline, the radial sector somewhat 



elongated, arcuated. (Northeastern United States.) 



rubescens sp. n. 



The following general statements may be made regarding these 

 species : 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 54.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States and eastern 

 Canada, Osten Sacken's Maryland type being the most southern 

 record. It is abundant from Ontario and Maine south to Maryland. 

 In New York and New England it flies from May 30 to September 21, 

 being most numerous in June. It may be looked for in cold, damp, 

 shady places, such as along mountain streams and similar situations. 



Rhaphidolabis (Plectromyiaj modesta Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 55.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, known only 

 from the White Mountains, New Hampshire, the type-locality, 

 and the southern Adirondack Mountains, New York. It is found 

 along small mountain streams, flying in June. 

 Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) neomexicana Alexander. 



Rocky Mountain region, known from two stations in Colorado 

 and one in New Mexico. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) polymeroides Alexander. 



Known only from the type-locality, Eureka, Humboldt County, 

 California, May 22, 1903 (H. S. Barber). 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) tenuipes Osten Sacken. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 56.) 



Canadian and Canadian-Transitional life-zones of the eastern 

 United States, from Maine to Georgia, flying in April and May in 

 the south, a little later in the north, and reappearing in late summer. 

 Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) cayuga sp. n. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 57.) 



Canadian-Transitional zones of the northeastern United States. 

 This is the earliest species of the genus in the north, appearing on 

 the wing in April and early May, reappearing in August. In New 

 York it comes with the very first of the early spring crane-flies, such 

 as Ormosia nubila, 0. innocens, Limnophila brevifurca, Tipula collaris, 

 T. dejecta, etc. 

 Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) rubescens sp. n. (Plate XXVIII, fig. 58.) 



Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, appearing 

 on the wing a little later than does the last (the first half of June). 

 It is characteristic of cold Canadian woods near running water. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 543 



It is probable that, like the Last-named species, ii reappears in 

 August as described under R. tenuipes, such species presumably 



1 >eing double-brooded. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) cayuga Bp. d. 



Head brownish gray; thorax grayish brown with three dark brown 

 stripes; abdomen dark brown, the segments narrowly ringed with 

 paler; wings pale- brown; cell R 2 sessile, Rs very short, arcuated or 

 angulated; cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of the median cross-vein; 

 cell Mi short. 



Male. — Length, 5-5.4 mm.; wing, 6.3-6.6 mm. 



I' < male. — Length, 6.6 mm.; wing, 7.7 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae dark brown, the 

 flagellar segments short-cylindrical. Head brownish gray. 



Mesonotum grayish brown, the praescutum with three dark brown 

 stripes, the middle stripe broadest, ending before the suture; lateral 

 stripes narrow and less distinct; scutum light brown, the lobes largely 

 dark brown; scutellum and postnotum dark with a heavy gray 

 bloom. Pleura dark brown with a gray bloom. Halteres light 

 yellow, the knobs dark brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters 

 dark brown; femora similar, a little paler at the extreme base; tibiae 

 and tarsi dark brown. Wings with a light brown tinge, stigma a 

 little darker but poorly defined, veins dark brown. Venation 

 (Plate XXVIII, fig. 57) : Sc long, Sc 2 far removed from its tip ; distance 

 between Sc 2 and the origin of Rs about twice the length of the sector; 

 Rs very short, arcuated, angulated, or sometimes spurred; cell Mi 

 short and w r eak, tending to be evanescent, less than one-half the 

 length of cell M s . 



Abdominal segments dark browm, the caudal margins of the 

 terminal segments narrowly ringed with paler; hypopygium brownish 

 yellow. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, d", McLean, Tompkins County, New York, May 7. 

 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , with the type. 



Paratopotypes, 15 cf 9 ; paratype, 1 cf, near Johnstown, Fulton 

 County, New York, August 19, 1916 (Alexander). 



Type in the collection of the author. 



This is the species figured by Needham under the name tenuipes, 17 

 the real tenuipes being shown in the same work, Plate 19, fig. 2. 



"Twenty-third Report of the New York State Entomologist, PL 13, fig. 1 

 (1907). 




544 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



The types occurred rather abundantly along a small woodland 

 stream and were found commonly resting on the trunks of sugar 

 maples, swarming out into the air at short intervals. The species 

 occurred with the following crane-fly associates : 



Ormosia innocens, 0. nubila, 0. rubella, Erioptera septemtrionis, 

 Limnophila brevifurca, Adelphomyia ?ninuta, Ula elegans, Pedicia 

 conterminata and Tipula dejecta. 



Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabis) rubescens sp. n. 



Head light silvery gray; mesonotum reddish, sparsely gray pruinose, 

 with three indistinct brown stripes; abdomen yellowish brown, the 

 hypopygium bright yellow; wings nearly hyaline; -cell R 2 sessile; 

 Rs arcuated, rather elongate; cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m; 

 cell Mi moderate. 



Male. — Length, 5.3-5.5 mm.; wing, 6.3-6.6 mm. 



Female. — Length 5.5-5.6 mm.; wing, 6.5-7 mm. 



Rostrum and palpi dark brown. Antennae with the basal segments 

 brown, sparsely grayish pruinose; praescutum with three indistinct 

 brown stripes, lateral stripes less evident, median stripe narrowed 

 behind and becoming indistinct at the suture; scutum with the lobes 

 brownish gray, the median area dull reddish yellow; scutellum pale 

 brownish yellow, gray pruinose; postnotum light reddish with a gray 

 bloom. Pleura light reddish with a sparse gray bloom. Halteres 

 pale, the knobs brown. Legs with the coxae and trochanters light 

 brownish yellow; femora and tibiae brownish yellow, the latter a 

 little darkened towards their tips; tarsi brown. Wings nearly 

 hyaline, stigma very pale to indistinct, veins dark brown. Venation 

 (Plate XXVIII, fig. 58): Sc long, ending at nearly midlength of R 2 ; 

 distance between Sc 2 and the origin of the sector about twice the 

 length of the latter; Rs rather long, strongly arcuated, but not 

 angulated; cell R 2 sessile, sometimes broadly sessile; cross-vein r at 

 the tip of Ri] cell 1st M 2 open by the atrophy of m; cell M x present, 

 about one-half as deep as cell M%. 



Abdomen pale yellowish brown, the lateral margins more yellowish, 

 the hypopygium bright yellow. 



Habitat. — Northeastern United States. 



Holotype, d* , Simmons woods, Gloversville, Fulton County, New 

 York, altitude 900 feet, June 22, 1916 (Alexander). 



Allotype, 9 , topotypic, June 12, 1916. 



Paratopotypes, 20 & 9 , June 9, 1914; June 12 to 22, 1916. 



Type in the collection of the author. 



The ecological conditions under which this species lives have been 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 545 



discu— id in the second part of this series of papers 18 under the 

 account of Tipula cayuga Alexander. A less detailed notice of the 

 associates taken with the type will be found in the present paper 

 under the account of Limnophila edwardi. 



Family PTYCHOPTERLLX&2. 

 BITTACOMORPHA Westwood. 



Bittacomorpha Westwood; London and Edinburgh Philosophical Magazine 

 and Journal of Science, vol. (i, p. 281 (1S35). 



Subgenus BITTACOMORPHELLA subgcn. n. 



Agrees with Bittacomorpha s. s., but the apical cells of the wings 

 with a sparse, strong pubescence, including the tip of cell Sc, all 

 of 2nd Ri, tips of R 3 , R t , R& and 2nd M; in B. sackeni Roder, the 

 pubescence is even more extensive, including the end of cell C, first 

 Ri, all of cell R 4 , almost the outer half of cells R 3 and R&, and the 

 ends of 2nd M and Cur, metatarsi of the legs not swollen. A cor- 

 related character is the lack of a white ring near the base of the 

 metatarsi. 



Type of the subgenus, Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson. 



There are four species of this genus now r known, two belonging to 

 each subgenus, and their general distribution, seasonal and geo- 

 graphical, may be summarized as follows: 



Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorpha) clavipes Fabricius. 



The "Phantom Crane-fly" is one of our commonest and best- 

 known species. It is a fly of the Canadian-Transitional to the 

 Austral zones and has a wide range throughout America east of the 

 Rockies, from Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and 

 Newfoundland south to Florida, west to Manitoba and South Dakota. 

 In New York and New England it is on the wing from May 17 to 

 September 23, being common throughout the summer; in the southern 

 part of its range it appears as early as February. The flies are 

 abundant in low r , wet swales, swamps, and along lakes and ponds. 

 The curious rust-red lava with an extensile breathing tube is as 

 remarkable as the adult fly. 



Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorpha) occidentalis Aldrich. 



Western United States, ranging from Washington to California, 

 the latter records being for mid-May. 



Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorphella) jonesi Johnson. 



A fly of the Canadian life-zone of the northeastern United States, 



18 Proceedings of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelihia, 

 p. 4<S(>, September, 1915. 




546 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



ranging from Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont south (in the 

 mountains) to Mt. Toxoway, North Carolina, the type-locality. 

 In New York and New England it flies from June 11 to August 31, 

 being quite numerous in suitable localities throughout the latter 

 half of June and all of July. It is found in cool, shady spots, usually 

 near running water or springs, being very often found in small dark 

 ravines or along shaded runs. They frequently lurk under dark 

 culverts after the fashion of Dolichopeza and Oropeza. 

 Bittacomorpha (Bittacomorphella) sackenii Roder. 



Northwestern United States and western Canada, ranging from 

 Queen Charlotte Isle, British Columbia, south to California and 

 east to Colorado. The records indicate that the insect is on the 

 wing in June and early July. 



The species of Bittacomorpha may be separated by the following 

 key: 



1. Wings with the apical cells without a strong pubescence; meta- 



tarsi swollen and white basally. (Subgen. Bittacomorpha.) 2 



Wings with the apical cells with a sparse strong pubescence; 

 metatarsi not swollen, and without white near the base. 

 (Subgen. Bittacomorphella.) 3 



2. Dorsum of thorax deep velvety black with a white median line; 



cell Ra of the wings one-third as long as R b . (Eastern North 



America.) clavipes Fabricius. 19 



Dorsum of thorax shiny black without a white median line; cell 

 Ri of the wings one-half as long as R&. (Western United 

 States.) occidentalis Aldrich. 20 



3. Tibia? and metatarsi dark brownish black without white (except 



the extreme tip of the latter in some specimens), segments 

 two and three of the tarsi pure white. (Western North 



America.) sackenii Roder. 21 



Tibiae black with a broad white band beyond the base; metatarsi 

 with more or less white at the tip, broadest on the fore legs, 

 narrowest on the hind legs; segments two and three of the 



tarsi pure white. (Northeastern United States.) 



jonesi Johnson. 22 



Explanation of Plates XXV to XXXI. 



Plate XXV. — Fig. 1. — Wing of Geranomyia canadensis West wood. 

 Fig. 2. — Wing of G. distincta Doane. 

 Fig. 3. — Wing of G. intermedia Walker. 

 Fig. 4. — Wing of G. diversa Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 5. — Wing of G. tibialis Loew. 



19 Tipula clavipes Fabricius; Spec. Insect., vol. 2, p. 404 (1781). 



20 Bittacomorpha occidentalis Aldrich; Psyche, vol. 7, p. 201 (1895). 



21 Bittacomorpha sackenii Roder; Wien. Entom. Zeit., p. 230 (1890). 



22 Bittacomorpha jonesi Johnson; Psyche, vol. 12, pp. 75, 76 (1905). 




191G.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 547 



Fig. <>. — Wing of G. lachrymalis Alexander. 



Fig. 7. -Wing of G. rostrata Saj . 



Fig. 8. Wing of G. ibis sp. a. 



Fig. 9. -Wing of G. insignia Loew. 



Fig. 10. -Wing of Dicranoptycha germana Osten Sacken. 



Fig. 11. — Wing nf I), sobrina <>>ten Sacken. 



Fig. L2. -Winy, nt' l>. winnemana sp. n. 



Fig. 13. — Wing of Rhamphidia flavipes Macquart. 



Fig. 14. — Wing of R. mainensis sp. n. 



Fig. 1"). -Wing of Teuckolabis complexa Osten Sacken. 



Fig. Hi. — Wing of T. lucida Alexander. 



Plate XXVI. -Fig. 17. — Wins of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) aUxanderi Johnson. 

 Fig. IS. — -Wing of G. (L.) cinerea Doane. 

 Fig. 19. -Wing of G. (L.) sacandaga Alexander. 

 Fig. 20. — Wing of G. (L.) pleuralis Williston. 

 Fig. 21. — Wing of G. (L.) puer Alexander. 

 Fig. 22.- -Wing of G. (L.) manca Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 23. — Wing of G. (Gonomyia) mathesoni Alexander. 

 Fig. 24. — Wing of G. (G.) blanda Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 25. — Wing of G. (G.) calif ornica Alexander. 

 Fig. 26. — Wing of G. ((?.) svlphurella Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 27. — Wing of G. (G.) flavibasis Alexander. 

 Fig. 28.— Wing of G. (G.) florens Alexander. 

 Fig. 29. — Wing of G. (G.) cognatella Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 30. — Wing of G. (G.) noueboracensis Alexander. 

 Fig. 31. — Wing of G. (G.) filicauda Alexander. 

 Fig. 32. — Wing of G. (G.) virgata Doane. 

 Fig. 33. — Wing of G. (G.) subcinerea Osten Sacken. 



Plate XXVII.— Fig. 34. — Wing of Erioptera (Erioptera) laticeps sp. n. 

 Fig. 35. — Wing of E. (Mesocyphona) tantilla sp. n. 

 Fig. 36. — Wing of E. (Empeda) nyctops sp. n. 

 Fig. 37. — Wing of Molophilus fultonensis sp. n. 

 Fig. 38. — Wing of M. nova-ccesariensis sp. n. 

 Fig. 39. — Wing of M. ursinus Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 40. — Wing of Empedomorpha empedoides Alexander d". 

 Fig. 41. — Wing of Rhabdomaslix (Sacandaga) nionticola sp. n. 

 Fig. 42. — Wing of R. (S.) caudata Lundbeck. 

 Fig. 43. — Wing of R. (S.) flava Alexander. 

 Fig. 44. — Wing of Pterochionea bradleyi sp. n. 

 Fig. 45. — Wing of Limnophila edwardi sp. n. 

 Fig. 46. — Wing of L. sylvia sp. n. 



Plate XXVIII. — Fig. 47. — Wing of Tricyphona inconstans Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 48. — Wing of T. calcar Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 49. — Wing of T. auripennis Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 50. — Wing of T. hyperborea Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 51. — Wing of T. katahdin Alexander. 

 Fig. 52. — Wing of T. vernalis Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 53. — Wing of T. paludicola sp. n. 



Fig. 54. — Wing of Rhaphidolabis (Rhaphidolabina) flaveola Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 55. — Wing of R. (Plectromyia) modesta Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 56. — Wing of R. (Rhaphidolabis) tenuipes Osten Sacken. 

 Fig. 57. — Wing of R. (R.) cayuga sp. n. 

 Fig. 58. — Wing of R. (R.) rubescens sp. n. 



Plate XXIX. — Fig. 59. — Hypopygium of Gonomyia (Leiponeura) alexanderi; 

 dorsal aspect of the pleural appendages; d = dorsal appendage; v = ven- 

 tral appendage. 

 Fig. 60. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) helophila Alexander; dorsal aspectTof the 

 pleural appendages; lettering as in Fig. 59. 




548 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Oct., 



Fig. 61. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) alexanderi; ventral aspect of the pleural 



appendages; lettering as in Fig. 59. 

 Fig. 62. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) cinerea; ventral aspect of the pleural 



appendages; lettering as in Fig. 59. 

 Fig. 63. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) puer; dorsal aspect of right pleurite; 



p.gd. = penis-guard. 

 Fig. 64. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) manca; dorsal aspect of right pleurite; 



lettering as in Fig. 63. 

 Fig. 65. — Hypopygium of G. (L.) manca; lateral aspect; lettering as in 



Fig. 63. 

 Fig. 66. — Hypopygium of G. (Gonomyia) californica; dorsal aspect of the 



right pleurite; lettering as in Figs. 59 and 63. 

 Fig. 67. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) californica; ventral aspect; lettering as in 



Figs. 59 and 63. 

 Fig. 68. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) blanda; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 

 • lettering as in Fig. 59. 

 Fig. 69. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) blanda; ventral aspect of the ventral 



appendage of the pleurite. 

 Fig. 70. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) svlphurella; dorsal aspect of the right 



pleurite. 

 Fig. 71. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) florens; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 



k = dorsal fleshy knob; d = first or dorsal appendage; 2 = second 



pleural appendage; 3 = third or ventral pleural appendage. 

 Fig. 72. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) florens; lateral aspect of the penis-guard. 

 Fig. 73. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; lateral aspect of the penis-guard. 

 Fig. 74. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; dorsal aspect of the right 



pleurite; lettering as in Fig. 71. 

 Fig. 75. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) cognatella; lateral aspect of the pleurite; 



lettering as in Fig. 71. 



Plate XXX. — Fig. 76. — Hypopygium of Gonomyia (Gonomyia) flavibasis; 



dorso-lateral aspect. 

 Fig. 77. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) flavibasis; ventral aspect of the pleural 



appendages. 

 Fig. 78. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) flavibasis; apex of the ventral appendages. 

 Fig. 79. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensis; pleural appendages, ventral 



aspect. 

 Fig. 80. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) noveboracensis; ventral aspect of the left 



side of the penis-guard and the gonapophyses ; a, b, c = horns of the 



fused cylinder. 

 Fig. 81. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) filicauda; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 



d = dorsal pleural appendage; v = ventral pleural appendage. 

 Fig. 82. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) filicauda; lateral aspect of the penis-guard. 

 Fig. 83. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; dorsal aspect of the right 



pleurite; lettering as in Fig. 81. 

 Fig. 84. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; ventral aspect of the left side 



of the penis-guard. 

 Fig. 85. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) subcinerea; dorsal pleural appendage. 

 Fig. 86. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) cequalis Alexander; dorsal aspect of the 



right pleurite: lettering as in Fig. 81; a.t. = anal tube. 

 Fig. 87. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) virgata; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 



lettering as in Fig. 81; 2 = second pleural appendage. 

 Fig. 88. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) unicolor Alexander; ventral aspect of the 



penis-guard and the gonapophyses; p.gd. = penis-guard; a = subtending 



arm; g= gonapophyse. 

 Fig. 89. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) unicolor; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 



lettering as in Fig. 81. 

 Fig. 90. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) mexicana Alexander; ventral aspect of 



the penis-guard; lettering as in Fig. 88. 

 Fig. 91. — Hypopygium of G. (G.) mexicana; dorsal aspect of the right pleurite; 



lettering as in Figs. 81 and 87. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXV. 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXVI. 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916 



PLATE X 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXVIII. 



52 



55 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXX. 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1916. 



PLATE XXXI. 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191' ; 



plate :■: 



ALEXANDER: CRANE-FLIES. 





1916.] N \TURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 549 



Plate XXXI.— Fig. 92. -Habit of Pterochionca bradleyi, with the wings and 

 middle leg removed. 

 Fig. 93. -Antenna of Pterochionea bradleyi. 

 Fig. 94. — Hypopygium of Pterochionea bradleyi; dorsal aspect of the right 



pleurite. 



Fig. 95. — Hypopygium of Molophilus fultonensis; ventral aspect of the 



ventral pleural hook. 



1'i-i. ( .H'>. — Hypopygium of M. fultonensis; lateral aspect. 



pj„ 97.— Hypopygium of Erioptera laticeps; dorsal aspect; 9t = ninth 



tergite; pi — ninth pleurite. 

 Fig. 98.— Hypopygium of E. nyctops; dorsal aspect; a, b, c = pleural 



appendages. 




550 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



NEW SPECIES OF NORTH AMERICAN BEES OF THE GENUS ANDRENA FROM 



WEST OF THE 100TH MERIDIAN CONTAINED IN THE COLLECTIONS 



OF THE ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY HENRY L. VIERECK 



The following descriptions are contributions toward a monograph 

 of the Pan-American species of Andrena. 



The proportions are in terms of divisions of a disc micrometer, 

 with 100 divisions to 1 mm., used in a Spencer Lens Co. binocular 

 with 10 x ocular and 40 mm. objective, each division equals nearly 

 42/,. 



Andrena (Andrena) azygos new species. 



Type.— No. 4,010. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality.— Cloudcroft, New Mexico, June 16, 1902 (H. L. 

 Viereck). 



Related to A. (A.) asmi Viereck. 



Male. — Length 8.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with ochreous 

 hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 45 : 64, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 32 : 22, temples produced, almost right 

 angular, the angle apparently opposite middle of eye, malar line : 

 joint 3 of antennae :: 3 : 7, elevated portion of malar space much 

 shorter than the depressed portion, head covered with ochreous 

 hairs except along the inner eye margin, upper eye margin, and 

 outer eye margin above the middle of temples and on the front where 

 the hairs are black, front indistinctly punctured, dullish, reticulated 

 and finely longitudinally striate, ocellocular line : ocelloccipital 

 line :: 14 : 5, face shining, distinctly punctured, its punctures from 

 one to three puncture widths apart, clypeus nearly planate, clypeus 

 apparently slightly concave near apex, more shining and more 

 distinctly punctured than the face, not elevated directly above the 

 apical margin, clypearea wanting, sculpture of the clypeus not 

 hidden by the moustache, labrarea with a broad rounded emargina- 

 tion, polished, its width at base : length down the middle :: 7 : 3, 

 width at base : greatest length :: 7 : 4, width at apex : length down 

 the middle :: 6 : 3, labrarea at base apparently half as wide as the 

 labrum, the latter with a fringe of ochreous hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 

 4 :: 7 : 8, joint 4 and following joints from a little more than one 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55] 



and one-half times as long as thick to nearly twice as long as thick, 

 dullish, flagel almost straight m outline, antennae blackish through- 

 out, mandibles nearly typical, rather slender, extending beyond the 

 outer edge of the labrun] and nearly to end of the basal third of its 

 fellow, black except for the apical fourth which is dull dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of dark, 

 dull, ochreous hairs, hairs of dorsulum seemingly shorter than hair 

 of mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated and sparsely 

 punctured, the punctures indistinct and from two to five or more 

 puncture widths apart, mostly the latter, notauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurae dullish with pale ochreous hairs throughout, 

 finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pits, that are 

 mostly three or more pit widths apart, scutel hairy and sculptured 

 much like the dorsulum, partly polished, partly sculptured like the 

 dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser, tegulae dark brown, polished, wing base 

 mostly pale stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma brownish 

 stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of veins stramineous with a 

 blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell beyond the middle and a little nearer to the second transver<e 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, nervulus interstitial forming an acute angle with the first 

 abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown excepting the tarsi 

 and hind tibiae which are rather dark brown, legs covered with 

 ochreous hairs, hind metatarsi at most hardly wader than mid- 

 metatarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at apex of the latter; 

 propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, with irregular rugae 

 on basal half, finely reticulated on apical half, rounded off at apex, 

 rest of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurae but with 

 smaller pits and covered with dark ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae 

 sculptured apparently like the mesopleurae, the sculpture not hidden 

 by the uniformly distributed ochreous hairs; abdomen with it- 

 tergum shining, almost polished, finely reticulated and indistinctly 

 punctured, the punctures mostly three or four puncture widths apart, 

 first tergite, with erect pale ochreous hairs, second and third tergites 

 with appressed ochreous hairs, second tergite with its elevated portion 

 down the middle : depressed portion :: 20 : 6, third and fourth 

 tergites with brownish appressed hairs on the elevated portion, fifth 

 tergite with its basal blackish portion covered with poorly defined 

 punctures that are as many as four puncture widths apart, rest of 

 fifth tergite and exposed portion of sixth and seventh tergites with a 




552 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



stramineous margin, anal process narrow, almost parallel sided and 

 shallowly emarginate at apex, tergum with rather inconspicuous 

 hairs that are supplemented on the sides of the second, third and 

 fourth tergites by thin ochreous apical hair bands, hair at apex of 

 abdomen of a golden hue. 



Andrena (Andrena) caliginosa 1 new species. 



Type. — No. 4,039. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — San Jose, California. (Hold.) 



Related to A. (A.) decussata Viereck. Probably synonymous 

 with A . (A.) nigra Provancher. 



Female. — Length 10.5 mm.; body black, covered throughout with 

 black or blackish brown hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 72 : 88, axial line : temporal line :: 37 : 21, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 4 : 15, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 5 : 6, elevated portion of malar space distinctly 

 shorter than depressed portion, front rather distinctly, longitudinally 

 striato-reticulate, not elevated into a welt along the fovea, fovea at 

 most : ocellocular line :: 12 : 16, foveal band virtually wanting, 

 distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 6 : 16, fovea 

 gradually attenuated below its middle and continued to a point 

 apparently above the antennal line, fovea filled with dark seal-brown 

 hairs, face mostly nearly polished, partly indistinctly reticulate, 

 with distinct punctures that are mostly almost adjoining or one 

 puncture width apart, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical 

 margin, convex, not so closely sculptured as the face, the punctures 

 larger and well defined, clypearea present, rather poorly defined 

 throughout, clypeus thinly hairy, its sculpture not at all hidden by 

 hairs, labrarea subemarginate, its width at base : length down the 

 middle :: 8 : 4, width at apex : length down the middle :: 6 : 4, 

 greatest length : width at base :: 5 : 8, labrarea at base nearly 

 one-third as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of dark 

 brownish hairs, labrum with a median longitudinal crista between 

 the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 15 : 10, joint 4 a little thicker than long, joint 5 a little longer 

 than thick, succeeding joints a little longer than thick, except joint 

 12 which is distinctly longer than thick, antennse blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, robust, extending nearly to the outer edge of the 

 labrarea, black except for the apical third which is dark reddish, 



l This specific name was proposed for this species by Prof. W. M. Davis. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. .")")o 



palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of long 

 slender hairs which are as long on the dorsulum as on the mesopleurse, 

 dorsuluni dullish, finely reticulated, punctured, the punctures mostly 

 from adjoining to three-puncture widths apart, notauli represented 

 by a shining line, mesopleurse sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum 

 but not so closely or distinctly reticulated, scutel nearly polished but 

 hairy and punctured much like the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and 

 sculptured much like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is 

 mostly denser and less distinct, tegulse dark brown, polished, wing 

 base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma dark 

 brown, rest of veins dull brownish stramineous, or blackish brown, 

 first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell far 

 beyond the middle and nearly interstitial with the second transverse 

 cubitus, nervulus received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and 

 forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 membrane with a uniform blackish brown tinge, legs blackish except 

 for the small joints of the tarsi which are more or less dark brown, 

 legs covered with black or blackish brown hairs, scopa typical, its 

 hairs black or blackish brown throughout, hind metatarsi at most 

 apparently a little wider than mid metatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure poorly defined, dullish and finely reticulated, slightly 

 rugose at base, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat 

 like the dorsulum but not so distinctly punctured, and covered with 

 similar hair, propodeal pleurae shining, reticulate, with sparse shallow 

 punctures and almost hidden by the brownish and blackish floccus; 

 abdomen with its tergum shining and sculptured much like the 

 propodeal pleurae but with apparently more distinct and smaller 

 punctures from three to six or more puncture widths apart on the 

 first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding tergite, 

 first, second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, blackish brown 

 margin, second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: 18 : 10, fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its 

 punctures closer together and coarser than on the other tergites, 

 pygidium black, nearly planate, with a shallow furrow on each side, 

 nearly pointed at apex, tergum with thin, inconspicuous, erect hairs 

 that are much longer on the first and second tergites than on the 

 third and fourth, fimbria blackish brown. 

 Andrena (Andrena) Candida tramoserica new race. 



Type. — No. 4,011. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California. 




554 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Female. — Length 10 mm.; essentially as in A. (A.) Candida Smith 

 from which it differs chiefly in the fovea? reaching at most to the 

 antennal line instead of to the clypeal line as in typical Candida. 

 In this race there is no black hair whatever on the temples. Clypeus 

 down the middle mostly reticulate on the basal half and mostly 

 transversely striate on the apical half. 



In a paratopotype the clypeus is almost polished on its apical half. 



Andrena (Andrena) complicata 2 new species. 



Type. — No. 4,042. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — San Jose, California. (Hold.) 



Related to A. (A.) trizonata (Ashmead) and A. (A.) Candida Smith, 

 and may prove to be a race of the latter. 



Female. — Length 8 mm.; body bluish, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous almost white hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 56 : 67, axial line : temporal line :: 27 : 16, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus : : 4 : 4, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, 

 head covered with whitish and black hairs, the latter present along 

 the inner eye margin, on most of the front, vertex and upper end of 

 temples, and along the upper two-thirds of the outer eye margin, 

 front rather distinctly, longitudinally striate, not elevated into a 

 welt along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 6 : 13, foveal 

 band wanting, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: 7 : 13, fovea nearly parallel sided, not attenuated below its 

 middle but continued to a point apparently a little below the antennal 

 line, fovea filled with dark seal brown hairs above the middle, with 

 pale hairs below the middle, face mostly nearly polished, indistinctly 

 reticulate, with indistinctly denned punctures that are mostly as 

 many as two puncture widths apart, face with a lateral, coppery 

 margin, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical margin, coppery 

 and blackish with a basal bluish margin, convex, sculptured like 

 the face except that the punctures are larger and well defined and 

 not so close together, clypearea wanting, clypeus with, its basal half 

 shining reticulate, its apical half nearly polished, clypeus thinly 

 hairy its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs, labrarea rounded, its 

 width at base : length down the middle :: 10 : 3, labrarea at base a 

 little more than half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe 

 of pale brown hairs, labrum apparently sculptureless and structure- 



2 This specific name was proposed for this species years ago by Prof. W. M. 

 Davis. 




1010.] STATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 555 



less between the labrarea and apical edge of labium, joint 3 of 

 antenna' : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 8, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding 

 joints as thick as Ions or a little longer than thick excepl joint 12 

 which is distinctly longer than thick, antenna' blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, extending to the outer edge of the labrarea, black 

 except for the apical half which is mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of pale ochreous almost 

 white haiis which are as long on the dorsulum, where they are thinly 

 mixed with black hairs, as on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and punctured much like the face, notauli repre- 

 sented by a shining line, mesopleurae with almost whitish hairs 

 except along the upper margin where there is an admixture of black 

 hairs, sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum but more closely and 

 less distinctly punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the 

 dorsulum except that most of its hairs are black, and the anterior 

 margin is nearly polished, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the 

 dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser and less distinct and 

 the hairs are all whitish, tegular dark brown, partly nearly polished, 

 wins base partly blackish browm, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 dark brown, its low r er margin blackish, rest of veins dull stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell in or before the middle and nearly one and one-half 

 times as far from the first transverse cubitus as the first transverse 

 cubitus is from the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus received by 

 the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute angle with 

 the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane with a uniformly 

 brownish tinge, legs blackish except for the small joints of the tarsi 

 which are more or less dark brown, legs covered wdth whitish and 

 golden hairs, scopa typical, its hairs silvery, the hairs at base above 

 decidedly darkened, hind metatarsi at most apparently a little 

 narrower than mid metatarsi; propodeum with its enclosure poorly 

 defined, dullish and finely reticulated, its basal half with a few faint 

 rugse and a faint median longitudinal raised line, rest of upper face 

 of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurae, and covered 

 with fine pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae reticulated and with 

 sparse shallow punctures that are nearly as close together as the 

 clypeal punctures, and almost hidden by the almost whitish floccus; 

 abdomen with its tergum shining, nearly polished, feebly reticulate 

 and finely,- sparsely punctured, the punctures mostly from four to 

 six puncture widths apart on the first tergite, the punctures hardly 

 closer on the succeeding tergites, second, third and fourth tergites 

 :?7 




556 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



with a thin, apical, whitish hair band that is interrupted in the 

 middle of the second and third tergites, apical edge of first, second, 

 third and fourth tergites with a pale stramineous border, second 

 tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed por- 

 tion :: 16 : 8, fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its punctures coarser 

 than on the other tergites, pygidium nearly planate, almost pointed 

 at apex, tergum with inconspicuous, pale, nearly erect hairs in 

 addition to the hair bands, the hairs of the sides of the first and 

 second tergite much longer than the hairs of the succeeding tergites, 

 fimbria dark brown. 

 Andrena (Andrena) cristata new species. 



Type. — No. 4,012. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) moesta albihirta (Ashmead). 



Female. — Length 10 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous almost white hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 56 : 76, axial line : temporal line :: 30 : 18, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 1 : 10, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 5.5 : 5, elevated portion of malar space nearly as 

 long as depressed portion, head covered with white hairs, front 

 rather indistinctly, longitudinally striate, not elevated into a welt 

 along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 10 : 14, foveal 

 band present and at upper end of the inner eye margin : ocellocular 

 line :: 1 : 14, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line : : 3 : 14, fovea attenuated below its middle where it is apparently 

 only one-half or a little more than half as wide as the greatest width of 

 the fovea, the latter continued to a point apparently a little below the 

 .antennal line, fovea filled with dark seal -brown hairs, fovarea wanting, 

 vertex and temples along the upper edge of the eye with black 

 hairs, face mostly polished, partly indistinctly reticulate, with indis- 

 tinct punctures that are as many as five or more puncture widths 

 apart, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical margin, convex, 

 sculptured like the face except that the punctures are larger and 

 well defined, clypearea present but poorly defined, clypeus thinly 

 hairy its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs, labrarea subemarginate 

 its width at base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, width at apex : 

 length down the middle :: 7 : 3, labrarea at base nearly half as wide 

 as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden hairs, labium with a 

 median longitudinal crista between the labrarea and apical edge of 

 labrum, joint 3 of antennse : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 8, joints 4 and 5 thicker 




19K').! NAT1 RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 557 



than long, the succeeding joints as thick as long or little longer than 

 thick except joints 11 and 12 which arc distinctly longer than thick, 

 antenna' blackish throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending 

 to the outer edge of the labrarea, black except for the apical fourth 

 and inner edge which are clear dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; 

 thorax covered with an abundance of pale ochreous almost white 

 hairs which are as long on the dorsulum where they are darker than 

 the almost whitish hairs on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, finely 

 reticulated and punctured like the face but more distinctly so, 

 notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with almost 

 whitish hairs, sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum but not so 

 closely or distinctly punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum 

 except that the sculpture is denser and less distinct, tegulse dark 

 brown, polished, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins dull stramin- 

 eous, with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the 

 second submarginal cell beyond the middle and nearly as near to the 

 second transverse cubitus as the first transverse cubitus is to the 

 stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish 

 except for the tarsi and hind tibiae which are more or less dark brown, 

 legs covered with brownish golden and ochreous hairs, scopa typical, 

 its hairs of the lower half pale ochreous, almost white, of its upper 

 half with a brownish hue, hairs at base above decidedly darkened, 

 hind metatarsi at most apparently a little narrower than mid meta- 

 tarsi; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, dullish and finely 

 reticulated, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat 

 like the mesopleurae but with smaller punctures, and covered with 

 finer pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae with sparse shallow punc- 

 tures and almost hidden by the almost white floccus; abdomen with 

 its tergum shining and sculptured much like the face, the punctures 

 from two to six or more puncture widths apart on the first tergite, 

 the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding tergites, second, third 

 and fourth tergites with an apical, whitish hair band that is inter- 

 rupted in the middle, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a stramineous border, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 16 : 9, fifth tergite 

 >hining, reticulate, its punctures closer together than on the other 

 tergites, pygidium nearly planate, with a shallow furrow on each 

 side, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with inconspicuous, pale, nearly 

 civet hairs in addition to the hair bands, fimbria dark seal-brown. 




558 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



Andrena (Andrena) friesei new species. 



Type. — No. 4,035. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) fulvihirta Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 11 mm.; body black, mostly covered with bright 

 tawny or ochreous hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 62 : 77, axial line : temporal line :: 31 : 19, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 15 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of lateral 

 ocellus :: 7 : 5, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head 

 covered with tawny and black hairs, front longitudinally striate, 

 not elevated into a welt along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular 

 line :: 10 : 15, foveal band present and at upper end of the inner eye 

 margin : ocellocular line :: 1.5 : 15, distance between fovea and 

 ocelli : ocellocular line :: 6 : 15, fovea attenuated below its middle, 

 cuneiform and continued to a point well below the antennal line, 

 fovea filled with pale hairs along the inner eye margin and lower half, 

 and with very dark seal-brown hairs on the upper half, in addition 

 with some blackish hairs, fovarea wanting, vertex and temples along 

 the upper edge of the eye with black hairs, face dullish, finely indis- 

 stinctly reticulate, with indistinct punctures that are mostly as 

 many as four puncture widths apart, clypeus distinctly elevated 

 above the apical margin, slightly convex, nearly planate, sculptured 

 like the face except that the punctures are closer together, clypearea 

 barely represented by a median longitudinal shining streak, clypeus 

 thinly hairy its sculpture nearly hidden laterally by hairs, labrarea 

 truncate its width at base : length down the middle :: 9 : 5, width 

 at apex : length down the middle :: 5 : 5, labrarea at base nearly 

 half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of brownish hairs, 

 labrum apparently sculptureless and without a definite structure 

 between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 3 of antenna? : 4 

 + 5 :: 9 : 8, joint 4 and 5 thicker than long, the succeeding joints 

 as thick as long or a little longer than thick except joints 11 and 12 

 which are distinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, robust, extending a little beyond the outer edge 

 of the labrarea, black except for the apical third which is dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of tawny 

 hairs which are as long on the dorsulum where they are darker than 

 the almost ochreous hairs on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, 

 covered with reddish hairs, finely reticulated and punctured like the 

 face but not so distinctly, more closely, notauli represented by a 




L916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF IMIILADELPI-IIA. ")">!> 



shining line, mesopleurae with almost ochreous hairs, sculptured 

 somewhal like the dorsulum, scutel hairy and sculptured like the 

 dorsulum. metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser and less distinct, tegulae blackish brown, 

 shining, reticulated, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta 

 blackish brown, stigma pale brownish stramineous bounded by dark 

 brown veins, rest of veins dull stramineous with a blackish tinge, 

 first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell in or a 

 little beyond the middle and nearly one and one-half times as far 

 from the second transverse cubitus as the first transverse cubitus is 

 to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus nearly interstitial and 

 forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 membrane uniformly tinged with brown, legs blackish, covered with 

 brownish hairs excepting most of hind trochanters, coxae and femora 

 on which the hairs are rather ochreous, scopa atypical, its hairs mostly 

 much shorter than half the greatest width of hind tibiae and nearly 

 erect, appearing brownish except along the edges where the hairs 

 are pale, nearly ochreous, hairs at base above decidedly darkened, 

 hind metatarsi presumably at most apparently a little narrower 

 than mid metatarsi; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, 

 dullish and finely reticulated, rest of upper face of propodeum sculp- 

 tured somewhat like the mesopleurae but less shining, and covered 

 with finer pale tawny hair, propodeal pleurae with a few shallow 

 punctures, finely reticulated, and almost hidden by the ochreous 

 floccus; abdomen with its tergum dullish, appearing almost impunc- 

 tate, the punctures mostly from two to four puncture widths apart 

 on the first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding 

 tergites, second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, whitish hair 

 band that is interrupted in the middle of the second and third, apical 

 edge of first, second, third and fourth tergites with a whitish stramine- 

 ous edge, second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: 18 : 9, fifth tergite more shining, reticulate, its 

 punctures distinct compared with the punctures on the other tergites, 

 pygidium nearly planate, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with 

 inconspicuous dark appressed hairs, in addition to the hair bands, 

 except laterally on the first and second tergite where there are some 

 whitish nearly erect hairs, fimbria dark seal-brown. 

 Andrena (Andrena) inclinata 3 new species. 



Type. — No. 4,033. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



3 This specific name was applied to this species by Prof. \Y. M. Davis in the 

 seventies of the preceding century. 




560 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Type Locality. — California. (No further data.) 

 Related to A. (A.) fulvihirta Viereck and Cockerell. 

 Female. — Length 12 mm.; body black, abdomen with a faint 

 greenish tinge, mostly covered with pale ochreous or whitish hairs; 

 head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 70 : 89, axial line : tem- 

 poral line :: 35 : 21, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 2 : 11, ocelloc- 

 cipital line : greatest diameter of lateral ocellus :: 6 : 5, elevated 

 portion of malar space in part nearly as long as depressed portion, 

 head covered with whitish hairs, front rather distinctly, longitudinally 

 striate and finely reticulate, not elevated into a welt along the fovea, 

 fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 9 : 18, foveal band present and at 

 upper end of the inner eye margin : ocellocular line : : 2 : 18, distance 

 between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 8 : 18, fovea slightly 

 attenuated below its middle where it is nearly as wide as the greatest 

 width of the fovea, the latter continued apparently to the antennal 

 line, fovea filled with whitish hairs, vertex and temples along the 

 upper edge of the eye with whitish hairs, face mostly shining, partly 

 indistinctly reticulate, with indistinct punctures that are from one 

 to three puncture widths apart, clypeus distinctly elevated above 

 the apical margin, convex, sculptured like the face except that the 

 punctures are sparser on the apical half, seemingly transversely 

 reticulated, clypearea wanting, clypeus quite hairy its sculpture 

 nearly hidden by hairs, labrarea slightly subemarginate, its width 

 at base : length down the middle :: 10 : 3.5, width at apex : length 

 down the middle :: 7 : 3.5, labrarea at base nearly half as wide as 

 the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale ochreous hairs, labrum 

 punctured between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 

 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 11 : 9, joints 4 and 5 and following joints 

 except end joint thicker than long, the end joint distinctly longer 

 than thick, antennae blackish throughout, mandibles typical, robust, 

 extending nearly to the outer edge of the labrarea, black except for 

 the apical half which is clear reddish, mandibles at base with a dome- 

 shaped polished bursa, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of pale ochreous almost white hairs which are decidedly 

 shorter and thicker on the dorsulum than the almost whitish hairs 

 on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated and indis- 

 tinctly punctured, the punctures not forming sharp contrast to the 

 reticulation, notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with 

 almost whitish hairs, sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum, its 

 lower and anterior aspect, however, more shining and more distinctly 

 punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the shining part 




l'.HG.] N All ELAJL S< H:\OES OF PHILADELPHIA. 561 



of the mesopleurae, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the scute! 

 excepl thai the sculpture is denser and less distind and dullish, 

 tegulse dark brown, polished, wing base partly blackish brown, 

 subcosta blackish brown, stigma and resi of veins dull stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell beyond the middle but not as near to the second 

 transverse cubitus as the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on 

 the radial vein, nervulus virtually interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane uni- 

 formly tinged with yellowish stramineous except t he apical border 

 which has a brownish tinge, legs blackish brown except for the 

 onychii and hind tibiae and rest of hind tarsi which are more or less 

 pale brownish, legs covered with whitish hairs, scopa typical, its 

 hairs almost white except at base above where they are decidedly 

 darkened, hind metatarsi at most apparently a little narrower than 

 mid metatarsi; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, dullish 

 and finely reticulated, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured 

 somewhat like the dorsulum, and covered with finer, much longer 

 whitish hair, propodeal pleura? nearly polished, finely reticulate, 

 with a few shallow punctures and almost hidden by the nearly wdiite 

 floccus; abdomen with its tergum shining, very finely reticulated and 

 finely, sparsely, indistinctly punctured, the punctures from two to 

 six or more puncture widths apart on the first tergite, the punctures 

 hardly closer on the succeeding tergites, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with an apical, whitish hair band that is interrupted in the 

 middle of the second, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a stramineous border, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 20 : 9, fifth tergite 

 shining, reticulate, its punctures closer together than on the other 

 tergites, pygidium nearly planate, with a shallow furrow on each 

 side, rounded at apex, tergum with inconspicuous, pale, nearly erect 

 hairs, in addition to the hair bands, fimbria dark seal-brown. 

 Andrena (Andrena) jennei new species. 



Tape. — No. 4,013. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — North Yakima, Washington, May 20, 1903 

 (Eldred Jenne, No. 60). 



Presumably related to A. (A.) runcinahe Cockerell. 



Male. — Length 8 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous or whitish hair; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 48 : 67, axial line : temporal line :: 34 : 23, temples produced 




562 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



into a near carina-like welt and with a rounded nearly right angle 

 below the middle of the eye, and an obtuse rounded angle above 

 the middle of the eye, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 1 : 8, elevated 

 portion of malar space nearly wanting, head covered with whitish 

 hairs throughout, front dullish shining, rather coarsely, sparsely 

 striate, ocellocular line : oeelloccipital line :: 16 : 5, face shining 

 nearly polished, faintly reticulated and distinctly punctured, the 

 punctures mostly from one to two puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 planate, not elevated directly above the apical margin, sculptured 

 much like the face but more nearly polished, clypearea wanting, 

 sculpture of the clypeus not hidden by the moustache, labrarea 

 subemarginate, width at base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, 

 width at apex : length down the middle :: 4 : 3, labrarea at base 

 apparently a little more than half as wide as the labrum, the latter 

 with a fringe of golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 :: 8 : 4, joint 

 4 a little thicker than long, joint 5 and following joints distinctly 

 longer than thick, antennae dullish, flagel, straight in outline, antennae 

 blackish throughout, mandibles typical, slender, extending beyond 

 the outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical fourth 

 which is dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of pale ochreous or whitish hairs, hairs of dorsulum nearly 

 as long as hair of mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, sculptured much 

 like the face but not so distinctly or closely, notauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurae with pale ochreous hairs throughout, finely 

 reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pits, much like the 

 dorsulum, scutel hairy and polished and with a few punctures that 

 are smaller than on the dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured 

 much like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser, tegulse 

 dark brownish stramineous, polished, wing base mostly dark brown, 

 subcosta dull light brownish stramineous, stigma bounded by yellow- 

 ish stramineous veins, its membrane concolorous with the subcosta, 

 rest of veins concolorous with the veins bounding the stigma, mem- 

 brane pale with a faint brownish tinge, recurrent vein received by the 

 second submarginal cell beyond the middle and a little nearer to the 

 second transverse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the 

 stigma on the radial vein, nervulus nearly interstitial, received by the 

 median cell, forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the 

 median vein, legs blackish brown excepting the tarsi and hind tibiae 

 which are rather pale brownish stramineous, legs covered with pale 

 ochreous hairs, hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than mid meta- 

 tarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at apex of the latter; 




1916.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS Oh PHILADELPHIA. 563 



propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, irregularly coarsely 

 rugose, rounded at apex, rest of upper lace indefinitely punctured 

 and coarsely irregularly sculptured between the punctures, covered 

 with pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae shining, finely reticulated 

 along the lower and anterior margin, elsewhere with a loose network 

 of fine rugae in the interstices of which the integument is indistinctly 

 reticulate and punctured, partly nearly hidden by pale ochreous 

 hairs; abdomen wit h its tergum nearly polished and finely punctured, 

 the punctures sparsest on the depressed portion of the first tergite, 

 second, third and fourth tergites uniformly sculptured, partly finely, 

 indistinctly reticulate, with their punctures two to six or seven punc- 

 ture widths apart, second'tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 16 : 7, fifth tergite with its basal 

 blackish portion covered with poorly defined punctures that are as 

 many as six puncture widths apart, depressed portion of tergites 

 brownish with an apical whitish edge, anal process entire, truncate, 

 dark brownish at apex, tergum with rather conspicuous pale ochreous 

 hairs that are supplemented on the sides of the second, third and 

 fourth tergites by thin pale ochreous apical hair bands, hair at apex 

 of abdomen pale ochreous. In manipulating the head with a pair 

 of forceps in order to get a better view of the labrarea the clypeus 

 was almost symmetrically impressed. 

 Andrena (Andrena) littlefieldi new species. 



Type. — No. 4,014. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Colorado Springs, Colorado, April 22, Worthington 

 Littlefield collector (T. D. A. Cockerell). 



Related to A. (A.) polygoni Viereck and Cockerell and closely 

 resembles A. (A.) placida Smith. 



Male. — Length, 6.5 mm.; body black, covered with whitish hairs; 

 head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 40 : 52, axial line : tem- 

 poral line at most :: 13 : 14, black, its pubescence whitish throughout 

 except along the lower edge of the labrum where it is golden, clypeal 

 punctures shallow, not sharply defined, at most two puncture widths 

 apart, mostly adjoining or nearly so, the interstices polished, clypearea 

 wanting clypeus convex, mandibles black with reddish castaneou- 

 tips, palpi typical, joint 3 of antennae : 4 and 5 :: 6 : 9, 3 : 4 :: 3 : 2 

 and 3 : 5 :: 6 : 5, antennae blackish brown, labrarea widely, arcuately 

 emarginate, greatest length of labrarea nearly twice the shortesl 

 length and apparently a little more than one-fourth the width of the 

 labrarea at its base, cheeks rounded or subtrapezoidal, widest a 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



little above middle of eye; thorax black and with whitish pubescence, 

 dorsulum dullish, partly shining, finely reticulate, with scattered 

 punctures that are inconspicuous, shallow and as much as five 

 puncture widths or more apart near the centre of the dorsulum; 

 scutel sculptured like the centre of the dorsulum but not distinctly 

 reticulated, metanotum densely sculptured, dull, legs pubescent like 

 the thorax except the tarsi which have the hairs on the under surface 

 rather golden, tarsi dark brown or blackish except onychii which 

 are dark stramineous, claws brownish stramineous, tegulse and scale 

 over wing base blackish, subcosta blackish brown, rest of veins and 

 stigma pale yellowish stramineous, basal vein and media darker, 

 brownish, membrane with a yellowish stramineous tinge, nervulus 

 interstitial and forming almost a right angle with the first abscissa 

 of the discoidal vein, first recurrent vein received a little before the 

 middle of the second submarginal cell; propodeum rugulose except 

 at apex of the ill-defined enclosure where it appears to be granular; 

 abdomen black with a greenish tinge, its second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a brownish to brownish-stramineous depressed apical 

 margin, tergites imperfectly reticulate and shining, with shallow 

 punctures about as sparsely distributed as on the scutel although 

 not so distinctly defined, pubescence whitish throughout, second, 

 third and fourth tergites poorly fasciate laterally, anal plate brownish 

 stramineous and emarginate like a bird's tail. 



Andrena (Andrena) lummiorum new species. 



Type. — No. 4,034. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Vancouver, British Columbia, April 10, 1904 

 (R. V. Harvey, No. 602). 



Related to A. (A.) asmi Viereck. 



Female. — Length 10.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 67 : 82, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 34 : 20, malar line : joint 3 of antennae 

 :: 4 : 13, elevated portion of malar space as long as the depressed 

 portion, head covered with whitish and black hairs, front longi- 

 tudinally striato-punctate, not elevated along the inner foveal edge, 

 covered with black hairs, vertex with pale ochreous and black hairs 

 fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 11 : 13, foveal band wanting, 

 fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the imier eye margin, 

 distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 2 : 13, fovea 

 hardly constricted near its middle where it is apparently nearly as 

 wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the latter continued below 




1910.] \ Vl'i RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 565 



as a shallow furrow down to a point apparently nearly on the clypeal 

 line, fovea blackish brown, lower margin of front, supraclypeal areas, 

 clypeus and inner margin of face with whitish hairs mixed with black 

 hairs, face shiny, punctured and finely reticulated, the punctures 

 mostly from nearly adjoining to two puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, with a poorly developed 

 median longitudinal welt, more coarsely and more sparsely punctured 

 than the face, clypearea poorly defined, clypeus with its basal half 

 dullish reticulate, its apical half nearly polished, Labrarea subemargi- 

 nate, its width at base : length down the middle :: 14 : 4, width at 

 apex : length down the middle :: 6 : 4, labrarea at base nearly 

 two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of dark 

 hairs, joint 3 of antenna? : 4 + 5 :: 13 : 12, joints 4 and 5 as thick 

 as long, the succeeding joints apparently a little longer than thick, 

 the end joint distinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish through- 

 out, mandibles typical, robust, extending to a little beyond the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical half which is 

 mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an 

 abundance of pale and black hairs which are tawny on the dorsulum 

 where they are somewhat shorter than the black and whitish hairs 

 on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, indistinctly punctured and 

 finely, densely reticulated, the sculpture nearly hidden by the dense 

 covering of pale hair with a tawny tinge, notauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurae with black hairs except for a streak of white 

 hair along the convexity between the anterior face and the lateral 

 face and along the upper margin where the hairs are whitish, sculp- 

 tured like the dorsulum though not so finely and more conspicuously 

 reticulated and punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like 

 the dorsulum except for being less densely sculptured, metanotum 

 hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is 

 denser, tegulse dark brownish, polished, wing base partly blackish 

 brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma brownish stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second trans- 

 verse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on 

 the radial vein, nervulus received by the median cell, nearly inter- 

 stitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the 

 discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except for the claws which are 

 brownish stramineous, legs covered with blackish or brownish hairs 

 except the mid and hind femora, hind coxae and trochanters, and 

 lower third of scopa where the hairs are whitish or silvery, scopa 




566 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



nearly typical but loose, hind metatarsi at most nearly as wide as 

 mid metatarsi ; propodeum with its enclosure poorly denned, medially 

 with a shallow impression, finely reticulated throughout and with 

 short weak radiating, crooked plicae along the base, rest of upper face 

 of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the dorsulum but more 

 distinctly and covered with nearly white hair, propodeal pleurae 

 shining, distinctly reticulated and with a few scattered indistinct 

 punctures, and almost hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen with 

 its tergum shining, finely reticulated and finely indistinctly sparsely 

 punctured, its first and second tergite with long, nearly erect pale 

 ochreous hairs, the succeeding tergites with distinctly shorter pale 

 ochreous hairs that on the fourth and fifth tergites are mixed with a 

 few black hairs, second tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 10 : 22, fifth tergite with its sculpture 

 more distinct than that on the preceding tergite, pygidium truncate, 

 black at apex, second and third tergites with a thin apical hair band, 

 fimbria blackish with pale hairs laterally. 



Andrena (Andrena) monogonoparia new species. 



Type. — No. 4,015. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — -Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) frigida cocker elli Graenicher. 



Male. — Length 8.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with whitish 

 hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 54 : 70, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 36 : 25, temples produced into a right angle, 

 the angle opposite the middle of the eye, malar line : joint 3 of 

 antennae :: 2 : 8, elevated portion of malar space shorter than the 

 depressed portion, head covered with whitish and black hairs through- 

 out, the white hairs present only on the clypeus, supraclypeal area 

 and to some extent on the vertex, occiput and temples, front rather 

 roughly reticulated and partly indistinctly striate, ocellocular 

 line : ocelloccipital line :: 18 : 6, face shining, distinctly punctured, 

 its punctures mostly from one to two puncture widths apart, the 

 interstices finely reticulated, clypeus apparently slightly convex, 

 elevated directly above the apical margin, nearly polished and 

 punctured much like the face, clypearea wanting, sculpture of the 

 clypeus not hidden by the moustache, labrarea with two faces, 

 emarginate beneath at the apex of the lower face, width at 

 base : length down the middle :: 8 : 3, width at apex : length down 

 the middle :: 25 : 3, labrarea at base apparently half as wide as the 

 labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 




1!)1G.] NAT! RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 567 



-i :: S : 7, joint 4 and following joints nearly twice as long as thick 

 the terminal joint excepted, which is apparently at leasl twice as 

 long as thick, dullish, flagel undulate in outline, antennae blackish 

 throughout) right mandible nearly typical, rather slender, extending 



nearly to the end of the basal fourth of its fellow, black except for 

 the apical third which is mostly dark reddish, palpi slender, nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of whitish hairs, that are 

 sparsely mixed with Mack on the dorsulum and scutel, hairs of 

 dorsulum seemingly as long as hair of mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and sparsely punctured, the punctures rather 

 indistinct and mostly four or five puncture widths apart, notauli 

 represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with whitish hairs through- 

 out, finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow pits that are 

 mostly two or three puncture widths apart, scutel hairy and sculp- 

 tured much like the dorsulum except thai it is partly nearly polished, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is denser, tegulae brownish stramineous, polished, wing 

 base mostly pale stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma brownish. 

 stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull stramineous 

 with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second 

 submarginal cell beyond the middle and little nearer to the second 

 transverse cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma 

 on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial, forming an acute angle with 

 the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown excepting 

 the tarsi and hind tibiae which are rather dark brown, legs covered 

 with whitish hairs, hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than mid meta- 

 tarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at apex of the latter; 

 proptxh urn with its enclosure well defined, finely reticulate, rounded 

 at apex, rest of upper face sculptured somewhat like the mesopleura 1 

 but with smaller pits and covered with whitish hair, propodeal 

 pleura' sculptured apparently like the mesopleurae the sculpture not 

 hidden by the uniformly distributed whitish hairs; abdomen with its 

 tergum shining, finely reticulated and indistinctly punctured, the 

 punctures many puncture widths apart, first and second tergites 

 with erect whitish hairs, third and following tergites with dark or 

 blackish hairs excepting the fifth beyond its base which like the apex 

 of the abdomen is covered with pale brownish hairs, second tergite 

 with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed por- 

 tion :: 23 : 5, fifth tergite with its basal blackish portion covered 

 with poorly defined punctures that are many puncture widths apart, 

 rest of fifth tergite and depressed portion of sixth tergite brownish 




568 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



stramineous, anal process spatulate and stramineous at apex, not 

 emarginate, tergum with its hairs not supplemented on the sides of 

 the second, third and fourth tergites by apical hair bands. 



Andrena (Andrena) obscuripostica new species. 



Type. — No. 4,016. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Related, presumablj', to A. (A.) apacheorum Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 9 mm.; body black, covered with pale ochreous 

 pubescence; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 53 : 74, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 29 : 17, black, its pubescence ochreous 

 except along the lower edge of the labrum where it is reddish brown, 

 along the lower edge of the mandibles where it is brownish and in 

 the foveae where it is seal-brown, except for the long blackish hairs 

 and on the occiput and temples where it is whitish, fovea apparently 

 at most two-thirds as wide along the ocellocular line than the latter 

 is long, hardly separated from the eye margin where the ocellocular 

 line joins the latter, fovea shallow, fovarea wanting, fovea extending 

 distinctly below the antennal line but apparently falling short of the 

 clypeal line, clypearea wanting, clypeal punctures distinct, most of 

 the punctures from one to two puncture widths apart, the interstices 

 partly polished partly reticulated on the disc, elsewhere reticulated 

 throughout, clypeus convex, deeply, transversely impressed just 

 before the apical edge, mandibles black except for the apical two- 

 thirds of the inner margin and all of the apical third which are 

 reddish castaneous, palpi typical, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 8, 

 antennas blackish brown, labrarea broad and short, subemarginate, 

 nearly as wide at apex as at base, four times as wide at base as long- 

 down the middle, malar space virtually crowded out by the eye; 

 thorax black with thin ochreous pubescence above and whitish 

 pubescence on the pleurae, dorsulum mostly dull and finely reticulated, 

 with indistinct punctures that are as many as four to five puncture 

 widths apart, scutel sculptured like the dorsulum, metanotum densely 

 sculptured, legs pubescent like the pleurae except that the hairs of 

 the tibiae and tarsi are brownish golden, scopa golden, its hairs not 

 dense enough to obscure the tegument, their arrangement and 

 character typical, tarsi and hind tibiae dark brown, rest of legs darker, 

 tegulae and wing base dark brownish stramineous to blackish, stigma 

 pale brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish brown, border of stigma 

 and remaining veins brownish stramineous, darker than the stigma,- 

 first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell a little 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 569 



beyond the middle, aervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle 

 with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein; propodeum with a poorly 

 defined funnel-shaped enclosure, sides i>t' the propodeum similarly 

 sculptured with the enclosure though more rugulose and in addition 

 indefinitely punctured; abdomen dullish black, finely reticulated and 

 indistinctly punctured, the tergum from the base of the depressed 

 margin of the second tergite to the end of the fourth tergite more 

 shining than elsewhere but nevertheless finely reticulated, depressed 

 portion of the second tergite down the middle : elevated portion :: 

 7 : 16, second, third and fourth tergites with most of their depressed 

 portion covered with a whitish fascia, erect pubescence of tergum 

 also whitish, that of the first and second tergite rather conspicuous, 

 fifth tergite punctured, no definite sculpture between the puncture-, 

 find iria dark brown, pygidium, planate, rounded at apex, conical 

 in outline, dark reddish brown to blackish, and with a slightly 

 submarginally impressed line on each side. 



Andrena (Andrena) pulverea new species. 



Type. — No. 4,0-43. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California (no further data). 



Related to A. (A.) papagorum Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 9 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous or whitish hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 52 : 65, axial line : temporal line :: 28 : 17, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of 

 lateral ocellus :: 3 : 4, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, 

 head covered with whitish hairs, front rather indistinctly, longi- 

 tudinally striate, not elevated into a welt along the fovea, its crista 

 poorly developed, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 10 : 13, foveal 

 band wanting, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line 

 :: 4 : 13, fovea slightly attenuated below its middle where it is 

 apparently only a little narrower than the greatest width of the fovea, 

 the latter continued to a point well below 7 the antennal line, upper 

 half of fovea filled with pale -eabbrown hairs, lower half with still 

 paler hairs vertex and temples along the upper edge of tin 1 eye with 

 dark hairs, face shining, finely reticulate, with distinct puncture- 

 that are as many as one to three puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 distinctly elevated above the apical margin, slightly convex, dullish. 

 sculptured like the face except that the punctures are seemingly 

 -mailer and the reticulation denser, clypearea present but poorly 

 denned and represented by a narrow impunctate area, clypeus 




570 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



thinly hairy, its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs, labrarea tri- 

 angular, its width at base : length down the middle :: 12 : 5, labrarea 

 at base nearly two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter with 

 a fringe of brownish hairs, labrum apparently structureless and 

 sculptureless between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum, joint 

 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 6, joints 4 to 9 thicker than long, the 

 succeeding joints as thick as long or a little longer than thick except 

 joint 12 which is distinctly longer than thick, antennae blackish 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending a little beyond the 

 outer edge of the labrarea, black except for the apical half which is 

 dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance 

 of whitish hairs which are distinctly shorter on the dorsulum where 

 they are darker than the almost white hairs on the mesopleurse, 

 dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, indistinctly punctured, the 

 punctures mostly many puncture widths apart, notauli represented 

 by a shining line, mesopleurse with almost white hairs, sculptured 

 somewhat like the dorsulum but more shining and more distinctly 

 punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is denser and less distinct, tegulse blackish brown, polished, 

 wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge excepting the cubiti which are yellowish, received by 

 the second submarginal cell beyond the middle and nearly as near to 

 the second transverse cubitus as the first transverse cubitus is to the 

 stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane uniformly 

 tinged with yellowish brown, legs dark brown, covered with brownish 

 golden and pale ochreous or whitish hairs, scopa typical, its hairs of 

 the lower half pale ochreous almost white, of its upper half with a 

 golden hue, hairs at base above decidedly darkened, hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently a little narrower than mid metatarsi; propodcum 

 with its enclosure poorly defined, shining and finely reticulated, rest 

 of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse 

 but with smaller punctures, and covered with finer pale ochreous 

 hair, propodeal pleurse fine reticulated, shining and with sparse 

 shallow punctures and almost hidden by the nearly white floccus; 

 abdomen with its tergum shining, satiny, finely reticulate and indis- 

 tinctly punctured, the punctures from two to six or more puncture 

 widths apart on the first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the 

 succeeding tergites, second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 571 



whitish hair hand that is interrupted in the middle of the second and 

 third tergites, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth tergites 

 with a whitish stramineous border, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 18 : 9, fifth tergite 

 dullish, reticulate, its punctures larger than on the other tergites, 

 pygidium nearly planate, sculptured, punctate and rugulose, nearly 

 truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous whitish hairs in addition 

 to the hair bands and the nearly erect whitish hairs laterally on the 

 first and second tergites, fimbria pale brown. 



Andrena (Andrena) sancta new species. 



Type. — No. 4,017. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California (no additional data except a written n. 

 on the locality label) . 



Related to A. (A.) parnassice Cockerell. 



Female.- — Length 10 mm. ; body black, mostly covered with whitish 

 hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 53 : 71, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 29 : 10, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 

 1.5 : 9, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head 

 covered with whitish hairs, front shiny, finely longitudinally striate, 

 with a poorly defined crista and not elevated along the inner margin 

 of the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 8 : 13, foveal band 

 nearly wanting, fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the 

 inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: : 13, fovea somewhat constricted near its upper end, nearly 

 parallel sided throughout and continued below the constriction as a 

 shallow furrow down to a point apparently a little below the clypeal 

 line, fovea pale seal-brown above its middle, pale ochreous or whitish 

 below, fovarea wanting, face dullish, finely reticulated and indefinitely 

 punctured, clypeus distinctly elevated above the apical margin, 

 slightly convex, with its basal half sculptured much like the face but 

 distinctly punctured, the apical half mostly almost polished and 

 coarsely punctured, the punctures from nearly adjoining to two 

 puncture widths apart on each side of the impunctate, median 

 longitudinal, feeble, welt-like clypearea, clypeus thinly hairy, its 

 surface not hidden, labrarea truncate, width at base : length down 

 the middle :: 11 : 5, width at apex : length down the middle :: 3 : 5, 

 labrarea at base nearly two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter 

 with a fringe of pale stramineous hairs, joint 3 of antennse : 4 + 

 5 :: 9 : 9, joint 4 as thick as long, the succeeding joints a little longer 

 than thick except the fifth which is as long as thick and the end 

 38 




572 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



joint which is much longer than thick, antenna? blackish throughout, 

 mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge of the labrum, 

 black except for the apical half which is dark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of whitish hairs which 

 are shorter on the dorsulum where they are pale ochreous than the 

 whitish hairs on the mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, punctured, finely 

 reticulated except for the middle third of the posterior half which is 

 polished and punctured, the punctures of the reticulated area from 

 nearly adjoining to nearly four puncture widths apart, the punctures 

 of the polished area much sparser, notauli represented by an impressed 

 line, mesopleurse with whitish hairs throughout, finely reticulate and 

 sparsely punctured, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the 

 polished part of the dorsulum except for being more finely punctured,, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dullish portion of the 

 dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser, tegulee dark brownish 

 stramineous, polished, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta 

 blackish brown, stigma dark brownish stramineous, rest of veins 

 dull stramineous, with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received 

 by the second submarginal cell beyond the middle and apparently 

 as near to the second transverse cubitus as the first transverse 

 cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial and 

 forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, 

 legs blackish brown except for the tarsi which are more or less dark 

 brownish stramineous, legs covered with whitish hairs, scopa typical, 

 its hairs of a whitish hue, and concolorous throughout except for 

 the hairs on the basal half of the upper edge where the hairs are 

 blackish brown, hind metatarsi at most apparently as wide as mid 

 metatarsi; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, triangular r 

 finely reticulated, not at all rugose, rest of upper face of propodeum 

 sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse but seemingly with smaller 

 pits and covered with whitish hair, propodeal pleurae distinctly 

 reticulated and with a few ill-defined punctures, and almost hidden 

 by the whitish floccus; abdomen with its tergum shiny, punctured 

 and delicately reticulated, the punctures fine and from two to eight 

 or more puncture widths apart on the first tergite except on its 

 depressed portion where the punctures are closer together, the 

 punctures on the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth 

 tergites similar to those on the first tergite and sparser than on the 

 depressed portions of the second, third and fourth tergites, where the 

 punctures are much as on the depressed portion of the first tergite, 

 second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 573 



portion :: 18 : 8, fifth tergite with its sculpture coarser, its punctures 

 not so well defined as on the preceding tergite, pygidiuni black, 

 planate, truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous pale hairs, 

 second, third and fourth tergites with an apical, interrupted, white, 

 hair band, fimbria brownish. 



Andrena lAndrena) scutellinitens new species. 



Type.— No. 20,679, U. S. National Museum. 



Type Locality.— California (C. F. Baker, No. 2,378). 



Related to A. (A.) nubecula Smith. 



Female. — Length 8 mm.; body black, mostly covered with pale 

 ochreous or yellowish hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 59 : 63, axial line : temporal line :: 28 : 16, malar line : joint 

 3 of antenna :: 2 : 9, ocelloccipital line : greatest diameter of lateral 

 ocellus :: 7 : 5, elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head 

 covered with hairs that are concolorous with the body hairs, front 

 rather distinctly, longitudinally striate, frontal crista vestigeal,. 

 front not elevated into a welt along the fovea, fovea at most : ocellocu- 

 lar line :: 7.5 : 11, foveal band represented by a shiny line at upper 

 end of the inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : 

 ocellocular line :: 4 : 11, fovea somewhat attenuated below its 

 middle where it is apparently only a little narrower than the greatest 

 width of the fovea, the latter continued to a point apparently a little 

 above the clypeal line, fovea filled with hairs that are concolorous 

 with the body hairs, vertex and temples along the upper edge of the 

 eye with the hairs concolorous with the body hairs, face polished with 

 distinct punctures that are from adjoining to as many as three punc- 

 ture widths apart, clypeus slightly elevated above the apical margin, 

 convex, sculptured like the face except that the punctures are larger 

 and mostly not so close together, clypearea present but poorly 

 defined, clypeus thinly hairy its sculpture not at all hidden by hairs,, 

 labrarea emarginate, its width at base : length down the middle :: 

 12 : 4, width at apex : length down the middle : 3.5 : 4, labrarea 

 at base nearly two-thirds as wide as the greatest length of labrum, 

 the latter with a fringe of pale hairs, labrum without a median 

 longitudinal crista between the labrarea and apical edge of labrum,. 

 joint 3 of antennse : 4 + 5 :: 9 : 9, joint 4 thicker than long, the 

 succeeding joints as thick as long or a little longer than thick except 

 joint 12 which is distinctly longer than thick, antenna? blackish brown 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge 

 of the labrarea, black except for the apical half which is mostly clear 

 dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance 




574 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



of yellowish hairs which are much shorter on the dorsulum where 

 they are darker than the almost whitish hairs on the mesopleurse, 

 dorsulum shining, partly polished, partly finely reticulated, punc- 

 tured like the clypeus but not so sparsely, notauli represented by a 

 shiny line, mesopleurse with almost whitish hairs, sculptured some- 

 what like the dorsulum but more densely reticulated, scutel hairy 

 and mostly polished, otherwise sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum hairy and densely sculptured, the sculpture nearly hidden 

 by the hairs, tegulse blackish brown, polished, wing base partly black- 

 ish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma pale yellowish 

 stramineous, rest of veins dull brownish stramineous, with a blackish 

 tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell 

 beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse cubitus than 

 the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 nearly interstitial, received by the median cell and forming an acute 

 angle with the second abscissa of the median vein, membrane uni- 

 formly tinged with brown, apical margin darkest, legs blackish except 

 for the small joints of the tarsi which are more or less pale brown, 

 legs covered with brownish golden and nearly whitish hairs, scopa 

 typical, its hairs golden except at base above where they are decidedly 

 darkened, hind metatarsi at most : mid metatarsi :: 11 : 12; propo- 

 deum with its enclosure rather well defined, shiny, finely reticulated 

 and roughened by oblique lateral rugae, rest of upper face of 

 propodeum rugulose, punctured and reticulated, covered with fine 

 nearly whitish hair, propodeal pleurae reticulated, with sparse shallow 

 punctures and almost hidden by the almost white floccus; abdomen 

 with its tergum shining and finely reticulated as well as punctured, 

 the punctures from one to three or more puncture widths apart on 

 the first tergite, the punctures hardly closer on the succeeding 

 tergites, first, second, third and fourth tergites with the depressed 

 margin covered with a broad nearly whitish hair band that is not 

 interrupted in the middle, apical edge of first, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a stramineous border that is nearly hidden by the hair 

 bands, second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : 

 depressed portion :: 16 : 12, fifth tergite shining, reticulate, its 

 punctures coarser than on the other tergites, and nearly hidden by 

 the fimbria, pygidium convex, without a shallow furrow on each 

 side, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with inconspicuous blackish 

 hairs in addition to the hair bands and the nearly erect yellowish 

 hairs at base of first tergite, fimbria dark cacao-brown. 



Allotype. — No. 4,041. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 575 



Allotype Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Length 6.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with ochreous or 

 yellowish hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 53 : 62, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 27 : 17, temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, 

 malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 1 : 7, elevated portion of malar 

 space as in the female, front distinctly striated, shining, ocellocular 

 line : ocelloccipital line :: 12 : 5, face polished, distinctly punctured, 

 its punctures mostly adjoining or one puncture width apart, clypeus 

 convex, sculptured much like the face, somewhat elevated directly 

 above the apical margin, clypearea represented near the apical 

 margin, sculpture of the clypeus nearly hidden by the moustache, 

 labrarea with a broad emargination, polished, its width at base : 

 greatest length :: 8 : 4.5, width at apex : length down the middle :: 

 5:3, labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, the 

 latter with a fringe of pale golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 :: 7 : 5, 

 joint 4 and following joints from as long as thick to a little longer 

 than thick excepting the end joint which is distinctly nearly twice as 

 long as thick, flagel, almost straight in outline, antennae dullish and 

 blackish throughout, mandibles atypical, robust, extending a little 

 beyond the outer edge of the labrum and to the middle of its fellow, 

 black except for the apical half which is dull dark reddish, palpi 

 nearly typical; thorax as in the female except that the dorsulum is 

 mostly polished, legs blackish brown excepting the tarsi and hind 

 tibiae which are paler, hind metatarsi at most hardly wider than 

 mid metatarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at apex of the 

 latter; propodeum with its enclosure much as in the female, more 

 regulose and with an ill-defined median longitudinal carina, rest of 

 upper face as in the female, propodeal pleurae sculptured apparently 

 as in the female; abdomen as in the female except as follows: fifth 

 tergite with a hair band like the preceding tergites, apical edge of 

 all tergites with a pale stramineous border, hair band of second 

 tergite interrupted in the middle, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 14 : 8, tergum with 

 pale appressed hairs on the second segment, anal process narrow, 

 truncate, pale stramineous at apex, its sides diverging, hair at apex 

 of abdomen of a golden hue. 



Andrena (Andrena) semifulva new species. 



Type. — No. 4,048. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California (E. Norton). 

 Related to A. (A.) saccata Viereck. 




576 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



Female. — Length 13 mm.; body black, mostly covered with black 

 hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 73 : 98, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 39 : 26, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 4 : 14, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly as long as depressed portion, 

 head covered with black or blackish hairs except for some pale hairs 

 on the vertex, front more reticulate than striate, not elevated along 

 the inner foveal edge, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 18 : 24, 

 foveal band wanting, fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of 

 the inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: 5 : 24, fovea hardly constricted near its middle where it is 

 apparently nearly as wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the 

 latter continued below the middle as a narrowing shallow impression 

 down to a point distinctly below the clypeal line, fovea very dark 

 seal-brown, face shining, finely reticulated and rather indistinctly 

 punctured, the punctures one to three puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 slightly elevated above the apical margin, convex, sculptured much 

 like the face but more shining and more distinctly punctured, 

 clypearea wanting, clypeus densely hairy laterally where its surface 

 is nearly hidden by hairs, labrarea rounded, its width at base : length 

 down the middle :: 20 : 5, convex at apex, labrarea at base at least 

 two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of brownish 

 hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 14 : 11, joint 4 nearly as thick 

 as long, the succeeding joints as long or a little longer than thick, 

 the end joint distinctly longer than thick, antennae blackish through- 

 out, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge of the 

 labrum, black except for the apical half which is partly dark reddish, 

 palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with an abundance of slender 

 hairs which are ochreous on the dorsulum where they are a little 

 shorter than the blackish hairs on the mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, 

 finely reticulated and closely punctured with rather indefinite 

 punctures, notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurae with 

 blackish hairs, except along the upper margin where the hairs are 

 concolorous with the hairs of the dorsulum, scutel hairy and sculp- 

 tured much like the dorsulum except for being less finely sculptured, 

 metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is coarser, tegulae dark brownish stramineous, reticulated 

 and shiny, wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, 

 stigma pale stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull 

 brownish stramineous, with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein 

 received by the second submarginal cell a little before, in or a little 

 beyond the middle and as near or nearer to the first transverse cubitus 




19 16.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 577 



as the firsi transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 

 nervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa 

 of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except for the tarsi which 

 arc more or less brownish stramineous, legs covered witli blackish or 

 dark brown hairs, scopa typical, its hairs of a blackish brown hue 

 and concolorous throughout, hind metatarsi at most apparently as 

 wide as mid met al arsi ; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, 

 finely reticulated, not at all rugose, rest of upper face of propodeum 

 sculptured somewhal like the mesopleurae but covered with ochreous 

 hair, propodeal pleurae finely reticulate and with sparse indefinite 

 punctures, not hidden by the poorly developed blackish fioccus; 

 abdomen with its tergum shining, finely reticulated and finely 

 punctured, the punctures poorly defined and from two to six or more 

 puncture widths apart on the first tergite, second, third and fourth 

 tergites sculptured much like the first tergite, second tergite with its 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 29 : 10, 

 fifth tergite with its sculpture of the same kind as the preceding 

 tergite, pygidium black, almost planate and nearly pointed at apex, 

 dullish, without an enclosure, tergum with rather conspicuous blackish 

 hairs, second, third and fourth tergites without a hair band, fimbria 

 blackish brown. A paratopotype has the hair of the dorsulum and 

 -cut el reddish and the labrarea truncate, the truncature as wide as 

 the length of the labrarea down the middle. 



Andrena lAndrena) sola new species. 



Type- — Xo. 4,047. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia.. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) subtilis Smith, and probably a small variety of 

 that species. 



Female. — Length 11 mm.; body black, mostly covered with 

 pale hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 63 : 84, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 33 : 21, malar line : joint 3 of antennas 

 :: 1.5 : 10, elevated portion of malar space virtually wanting, head 

 covered with pale ochreous hairs, front finely longitudinally striate 

 on each side of a well-developed median longitudinal crista, not 

 elevated along the inner foveal edge, fovea at most : ocellocular 

 line :: 12 : 17, foveal band well developed, polished and sparsely 

 punctured, fovea nearly contiguous to the upper end of the inner 

 eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli at the latter 

 point : ocellocular line :: 1 : 17, fovea constricted near its middle 

 where it is apparently only two-thirds as wide as the greatest width 




578 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



of the fovea, the latter continued below the constriction as a shallow 

 depression down to a point apparently on the clypeal line, fovea with 

 a little more than its upper half seal-brown, the rest pale ochreous, 

 fovarea widest a little below the middle of the fovea, not angulated, 

 its widest part : ocellocular line :: 2.5 : 17, face shiny, delicately 

 reticulated and sparsely punctured, its punctures not well defined 

 and from two to four puncture widths apart, clypeus distinctly 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and dullish reticu- 

 late, punctured as sparsely as the face but the punctures larger and 

 more distinct, clypearea wanting, clypeus thinly hairy, its sculpture 

 not obscured by the pubescence, labrarea truncate, width at base : 

 length down the middle :: 13 : 5, width at apex : length down the 

 middle :: 5 : 5, labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, 

 the latter with a fringe of dark hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 10 : 10, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding joints from as 

 long as to distinctly a little longer than thick, antennae blackish 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge 

 of the labrarea, black except for the apical half which is blackish 

 except for a reddish tinge, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered with 

 an abundance of pale hairs which are tawny on the dorsulum where 

 they are shorter than the whitish hairs on the mesopleurse, dorsulum 

 dullish, reticulated and punctured, the punctures apparently better 

 defined and closer together than the punctures of the face, notauli 

 represented by a shiny line, mesopleurse distinctly reticulated and 

 punctured somewhat like the face but the punctures larger, with 

 whitish hairs, except along the upper margin where the hairs are 

 tawny as on the dorsulum, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the 

 dorsulum, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser, tegulae dark brownish stramineous, 

 with a blackish tinge, membrane uniformly tinged with brown, first 

 recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell before the 

 middle and nearly as near to the first transverse cubitus as the first 

 transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the 

 discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except for the claws which are 

 more or less brownish stramineous, legs covered with whitish and 

 brownish hairs, scopa typical, its hairs of a whitish hue, and concolor- 

 ous throughout except that the hairs on the upper margin are brownish 

 to almost blackish at base of upper margin, hind metatarsi at most 

 apparently as wide as mid metatarsi; -propodeum with its enclosure 

 sharply defined, finely reticulated, not at all rugose, rest of upper 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 579" 



face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurae and 

 covered with whitish hair, propodeal pleurae with delicate reticula- 

 tions, more shiny than the mesopleurae and more sparsely punctured 

 and almost hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen black with a 

 bluish tinge, with its tergum shining, finely reticulated and punc- 

 tured, first tergite more distinctly and more closely punctured than 

 the face, punctures on the elevated portion of the second and third 

 tergites nearly as close together as on the disc of the first tergite and 

 a little larger than on the depressed portions, second tergite with its 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 18 : ll r 

 fifth tergite dullish and with rather indistinctly defined punctures 

 that are from three to four puncture widths apart, pygidium black, 

 planatc, pointed at apex, dullish without an enclosure, tergum with 

 inconspicuous pale hairs, second, third and fourth tergites without a 

 hair band, fimbria pale seal-brown. 



Other Locality. — Half way up Mt. Hamilton Road near San Jose, 

 California, on wild cherry (H. Morrison, 1,477). 



Andrena (Andrena) stictigastra new species. 



Type. — Xo. 4,036. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Presumably related to A. (A.) fulvinigra Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body black, covered throughout with 

 black or blackish brown hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 57 : 80, axial line : temporal line :: 30 : 17, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae :: 2 : 7.5, elevated portion of malar space barely 

 represented, head covered with black or blackish brown hairs, front 

 coarsely striated, fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 10 : 16, foveal 

 band poorly developed, fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of 

 the inner eye margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular 

 line :: 5 : 16, fovea constricted near its middle where it is apparently 

 half as wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the latter continued below 

 the constriction as a shallow depression down to a point apparently on 

 the clypeal line, fovea with dark hair, fovarea wanting, face polished, 

 not so densely punctured as the clypeus, clypeus slightly elevated 

 above the apical margin, convex, shining, covered with distinct 

 adjoining or nearly adjoining punctures, clypearea exceedingly 

 narrow but extending nearly from base to apex, clypeus thinly hairy 

 with dark hairs, labrarea rounded truncate, its width at base : length 

 down the middle :: 10 : 5, width at apex : length down the mid- 

 dle :: 3 : 5, labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, the 




580 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



latter with a fringe of dark hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 

 + 5 :: 8 : 6.5, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding joints at most 

 a little longer than thick, antennce blackish throughout, mandibles 

 typical, robust, not extending to the outer edge of the labrum, but 

 slightly overlapping below the middle of the labrum, black except 

 for the apical third which is dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; 

 thorax covered with blackish hairs which are darkest on the dorsulum 

 where they are shorter than the dark brownish hairs on the meso- 

 pleurae, dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, coarsely punctured, the 

 punctures from nearly adjoining to six puncture widths apart, 

 the punctures mostly sparsely distributed, notauli represented by 

 an impressed shining line, mesopleurae sculptured much like the 

 scutel but more coarsely so, with dark brownish hairs, except along 

 the upper margin where the hairs are blackish, scutel hairy and 

 ■exceedingly densely punctured, its punctures as close together as 

 possible, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the scutel except that 

 the sculpture is apparently not so coarse, tegulae blackish stramineous, 

 with blackish margins, polished, wing base partly blackish brown, 

 membrane with a uniform blackish brown tinge, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma bright brownish, rest of veins dull stramineous, with 

 a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second sub- 

 marginal cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, nervulus not interstitial but nearly so, received by the median 

 cell and forming an acute angle with the second abscissa of the 

 median vein and with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs 

 blackish brown except for the claws which are more or less brownish 

 .stramineous, legs covered with blackish hairs, scopa typical, its hairs 

 of a blackish brown hue, and concolorous throughout, hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently as wide as mid metatarsi; propodeum. with its 

 enclosure well defined, coarsely sculptured in addition to having at 

 least five well-defined longitudinal carina? on each side of a median 

 longitudinal carina, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured 

 •somewhat like the metanotum but not so finely and covered with 

 blackish brown hair, propocleal pleurae shining, delicately reticulated 

 and with sparse shallow punctures, not nearly hidden by the blackish 

 brown floccus; abdomen with its tergum polished, punctured, the 

 punctures clear cut but small and from one to four puncture 

 -widths apart on the first tergite, from one to three puncture widths 

 apart on the elevated portion of the second and third tergites where 

 the punctures are seemingly larger than on the depressed portions 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 581 



and from one to three puncture widths apart on the depressed 



portion- of the second and third tergites, second tergite with its 

 elevated portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 13 : 6, 

 fourth tergite more sparsely punctured than second and third, fifth 

 tergite with its punctures sparse, ill defined and surrounded by fine 

 reticulation-, pygidium dullish, slightly convex, rounded broadly 

 truncate at apex, tergum with inconspicuous blackish hairs, second, 

 third and fourth tergites without a hair hand, fimbria blackish brown 

 or dark seal-brown. The parts described in italics have been 

 destroyed by museum pests, so the italicised points are what will 

 probably be found in a perfect specimen. 



Andrena (Andrena) subnigripes new species. 



Type. — No. 4,018. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) nigripes Provancher. 



Female. — Length 10 mm.; body black, mostly covered wdth pale 

 hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 55 : 77, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 30 : 17, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 1 : 11, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly as long as depressed portion, 

 head covered with ochreous hairs, except for some scattered blackish 

 hairs or brownish hairs along the inner eye margin, on the clypeus 

 and mandibles, front longitudinally striate, dullish, with a well- 

 defined median longitudinal crista, fovea at most : ocellocular 

 line :: 10 : 16, foveal band poorly developed, dullish, with a few large 

 punctures, fovea nearly contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye 

 margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 5 : 16, 

 fovea constricted near its middle where it is apparently half as wide 

 as the greatest width of the fovea, the latter continued below the 

 constriction as a narrowing depression down to a point apparently 

 midway between the clypeal line and the antennal line, fovea with 

 pale seal-brown hairs above the middle, pale ochreous nearly white 

 hairs below the middle, face partly shining, partly dullish, reticulated 

 and with a few large scattered punctures, clypeus decidedly elevated 

 above the apical margin, feebly convex, with a median longitudinal 

 shining welt at the anterior edge, mostly finely reticulated, dullish 

 and indistinctly punctured, clypearea represented by the welt 

 described above, otherwise wanting, clypeus with its elevated edge 

 shining, labrarea rounded at apex, nearly triangular, width at 

 base : length down the middle :: 14 : 4, labrarea at base nearly 

 two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of dark 




582 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



hairs that have pale tips, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 11 : 7.5, 

 joint 4 thicker than long, like the fifth, the succeeding joints as long 

 as or a little longer than thick except the end joint which is dis- 

 tinctly longer than thick, antennas blackish throughout, mandibles 

 typical, robust, extending to a little beyond the middle of the labrum, 

 black except for the apical half which is dark reddish, palpi nearly 

 typical; thorax covered with an abundance of tawny hairs dorsally 

 and over the tubercles, the hairs as thin and long on the dorsulum as 

 on the mesopleurse where the hairs are pale ochreous, dorsulum dull, 

 finely reticulated, and closely punctured, the punctures from one to 

 three puncture widths apart on the anterior third, less distinct and 

 more widely separated on the posterior half where the dorsulum is 

 in addition finely longitudinally striated, notauli represented by a 

 shining line, mesopleurse with pale ochreous hairs, except along the 

 upper margin where the hairs are tawny like on the dorsulum, sculp- 

 tured somewhat like the anterior third of the dorsulum except that 

 the punctures are represented by pits, scutel hairy and sculptured 

 much like the dorsulum except for being less distinctly sculptured and 

 not striate, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser and nearly hidden by the hairs, tegulse 

 dark brown, polished, wing base partly dark brown, subcosta blackish 

 brown, stigma brownish stramineous with a blackish tinge, rest of 

 veins dull brownish stramineous, membrane with a brownish tinge, 

 first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell before 

 the middle and not as near to the second transverse cubitus as the 

 first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus 

 nearly interstitial and forming an acute angle with the median vein 

 and the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish except for 

 the tarsi which are more or less blackish brown, and the claws which 

 are reddish stramineous, legs covered with blackish hairs, excepting 

 the femoral hairs and the flocci which are pale ochreous, scopa typical, 

 its hairs of a blackish hue, and concolorous throughout, hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently as wide as mid metatarsi, the latter with pale hairs 

 along the upper edge; propodeum with its enclosure poorly defined, 

 finely reticulated, with short feeble rugae along the basal edge, rest of 

 upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse but 

 not so coarsely and covered with pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae 

 nearly hidden by the pale ochreous floccus, reticulated and with a 

 few scattered shallow pits; abdomen with its tergum shining, rather 

 indistinctly punctured, the punctures from two to five puncture widths 

 apart, first tergite with its punctures not so close together as the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 583 



punctures on the elevated portion of the second and third tergites 

 where the punctures are from two to five puncture widths apart, 

 depressed portions of the second, third and fourth tergites almost 

 impunctatc, second tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion :: 17 : 11, fifth tergite with its punctures 

 coarse and as many as five or six puncture widths apart, pygidium 

 not planate hut convex, nearly pointed at apex, tergum with incon- 

 spicuous dark brown or blackish hairs, first tergite with some pale 

 hairs, tergum not fasciate, blackish to dark seal-brown. 



Andrena (Andrena) taeniata new species. 



Type. — No. 4,049. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (A.) peckhami Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 11 mm.; body black, mostly covered with whitish 

 hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 63 : 79, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 35 : 22, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 2 : 10, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly wanting, head covered with 

 whitish hairs, front dullish, finely longitudinally striate, with a well- 

 developed crista, and not elevated along the inner margin of the fovea, 

 fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 11 : 16, fo veal band nearly wanting, 

 fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye margin, 

 distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 5 : 16, fovea 

 not constricted near its middle, nearly parallel sided throughout and 

 continued below as a shallow furrow down to a point apparently on 

 the clypeal line, fovea whitish or pale ochreous, fovarea wanting, 

 face shining, almost polished, punctured, the punctures close together 

 and rather poorly defined, clypeus distinctly elevated above the 

 apical margin, slightly convex, with a basal and lateral reticulate 

 punctured margin and a nearly polished punctured disc, the punc- 

 tures from nearly adjoining to five puncture widths apart, clypearea 

 poorly developed, clypeus thinly hairy, its surface not hidden, 

 labrarea emarginate beneath what appears to be the apical 

 truncature, width at base : length down the middle :: 14 : 4, width 

 at apex : length down the middle :: 7 : 4, greatest length of 

 labrarea : width at base : : 5 : 14, labrarea at base two-thirds as wide 

 as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale stramineous hairs, 

 joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 10 : 9, joint 4 a little thicker than 

 long, joint 5 as long as thick, the succeeding joints apparent 1}' a little 

 longer than thick, antennae blackish throughout, end joint distinctly 

 longer than thick, mandibles typical, robust, extending to a little 




584 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



beyond the middle of the labrum, black except for the apical half 

 which is mostly dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thorax covered 

 with an abundance of whitish hairs which are shorter on the dor- 

 sulum where they are pale ochreous than the whitish hair on the 

 mesopleurae, dorsulum dullish, punctured and finely reticulated 

 throughout, its punctures mostly from one to two puncture widths 

 apart, notauli represented by a shiny line, mesopleurse with whitish 

 hairs throughout, punctured and finely reticulated, the punctures 

 much sparser than on the dorsulum, scutel hairy and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum except for being more distinctly punctured, meta- 

 notum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the 

 sculpture is denser, tegulae dark brownish, stramineous, polished, 

 wing base partly blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma 

 pale brownish stramineous, rest of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse cubitus 

 than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 

 the second abscissa of the radius shorter than the first, nervulus 

 forming an acute angle with the second abscissa of the discoidal vein 

 and received by the first discoidal cell, legs blackish brown except 

 for the claws which are more or less brownish stramineous, legs 

 covered with whitish hairs, the hairs on the tarsi and fore tibiae dark,, 

 scopa typical, its hairs of a pale ochreous or whitish hue throughout, 

 with the hairs at base above slightly darkened, hind metatarsi at 

 most apparently as wide as mid metatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure poorly defined, triangular, finely reticulated, not at all 

 rugose, rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like 

 the mesopleurse but more closely punctured and covered with whitish 

 hair, propodeal pleurae delicately reticulated and punctured, the 

 punctures rather coarse and from two to eight or more puncture 

 widths apart, not hidden by the whitish floccus; abdomen with its 

 tergum shiny, punctured and delicately reticulated, first tergite with 

 its punctures finer and closer together than on the propodeal pleurae, 

 the punctures of the depressed portion closer together than on the 

 rest of the tergite, on the elevated portion of the second, third 

 and fourth tergites the sculpture is denser than on the elevated 

 portion of the first tergite, on the depressed portions of the second, 

 third and fourth tergites the sculpture is mostly hidden, second 

 tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed por- 

 tion :: 19 : 9, fifth tergite with its sculpture coarser, its punctures 

 not so well defined as on the preceding tergites, pygidium brownish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 585' 



with a blackish apical half, slightly convex at apex where it is finger - 

 shaped in outline, terguio with inconspicuous blackish and whitish 

 hairs, second, third and fourth tergites with a well-defined apical 

 whitish hair hand, fimbria pale brownish stramineous. 

 Andrena (Andrena) yumorum new species. 



Type. — No. 4,019. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California (E. Norton). 



Presumably related to A. (A.) micranthophila Cockerell. 



Male. — Length 13.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with black 

 hair; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 77 : 94, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 42 : 21, temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, 

 malar line : joint 8 of antennae :: 2 : 12, elevated portion of malar 

 space much shorter than the depressed portion, head covered with 

 long slender hairs throughout, clypeal hairs and a tuft adjoining 

 mandibles whitish, supraclypeal area and area around base of antennse 

 with a mixture of whitish and blackish hairs, mandibles and lab rum 

 with pale hairs, rest of head with black hairs, front partly sparsely 

 pitted, mostly coarsely striate, ocellocular line : ocelloccipital 

 line :: 20 : 9, face shining, covered with distinct, adjoining or nearly 

 adjoining punctures, clypeus apparently slightly elevated directly 

 above the apical margin, almost polished, convex except on the apical 

 half down the middle where it is apparently slightly concave, and 

 punctured like the face, sculpture of the clypeus nearly hidden by the 

 moustache, labrarea nearly triangularly emarginate on its inferior 

 aspect, its anterior aspect truncate, width at base : length down the 

 middle :: 14 : 7, width at apex : length down the middle :: 6 : 7, 

 length down the middle : greatest length :: 7 : 8, labrarea at base 

 apparently at least twice as wide as the labrum, the latter with a 

 fringe of golden hairs, joint 3 of antennas : joint 4 :: 12 : 7, joint 

 4 as long as thick, following joints a little longer than thick by 

 measure although appearing distinctly longer than thick, dullish, 

 flagel nearly straight in outline, antennse blackish throughout, man- 

 dibles typical, robust, extending to the outer edge of the labrum, 

 black except for the apical half which is mostly dark reddish, palpi 

 nearly typical ; thorax covered with an abundance of pale and black 

 hairs, hairs of dorsulum shorter than hair of mesopleurse, dorsulum 

 distinctly punctured, dullish compared with the face, its punctures 

 smaller and closer together than on the face, in addition covered with 

 black hairs except along the edges where there are pale ochreous 

 hairs, notauli represented by a shining line, mesopleurse with whitish 




586 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



hairs except along the hind edge where the hair is black, not 

 reticulated but covered with adjoining punctures that are larger 

 than on the dorsulum, scutel with black hairs and sculptured much 

 like the dorsulum except for a border of pale hairs like on the meso- 

 pleurse, metanotum hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except 

 that the sculpture is denser and nearly all the hairs are pale ochreous, 

 tegulae blackish brown, polished, bordered with black hairs except 

 on the anterior third where the hairs are mostly pale ochreous, wing 

 base mostly dark brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish, stigma 

 dark brown with a blackish tinge, rest of veins dull brownish stra- 

 mineous with a blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the 

 second submarginal cell before the middle and at least half again as 

 near to the second transverse cubitus as the first transverse cubitus 

 is to the stigma on the radial vein, nervulus interstitial forming an 

 acute angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein, membrane 

 in median and submedian cells nearly colorless, rest of membrane 

 with a distinct brownish tinge, the broad apical margin darkest, 

 legs blackish excepting the tarsi and hind tibiae which are rather 

 dark blackish brown, legs covered with blackish and brownish hairs 

 except femora and coxae which have more or less pale hair, hind 

 metatarsi at most hardly wider than midmetatarsi and nearly half 

 as wide as hind tibiae at apex of the latter; propodeum with its enclos- 

 ure poorly defined, coarsely rugose on its superior aspect, as many as 

 21 longitudinal carinse present, truncate at apex, its posterior face 

 finely reticulate, rest of upper face sculptured somewhat like the 

 mesopleurse but with adjoining pits rather than punctures and 

 covered with long black hair, propodeal pleurae sculptured apparently 

 like the upper face, the sculpture nearly hidden by the uniformly 

 distributed black hairs; abdomen with its tergum polished, blackish, 

 with dark brownish depressed margins, distinctly punctured, the 

 punctures from nearly adjoining to four puncture widths apart on 

 the first tergite, second, third and fourth tergites punctured much 

 like the first, second tergite with its elevated portion down the 

 middle : depressed portion : : 38 : 9, fifth tergite with its basal black- 

 ish portion covered with well-defined punctures that are as many as 

 three puncture widths apart, rest of fifth tergite and exposed portion 

 of sixth and seventh tergites dark brown or blackish, anal process 

 broadly truncate at apex, shallowly emarginate, tergum with rather 

 conspicuous black nearly erect hairs that are not supplemented on 

 the sides of the second, third and fourth tergites by apical hair bands, 

 hair at apex of abdomen blackish brown. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 587 



Andrena (Parandrena) austrocalifornica new species. 



Type. — No. 4,020. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (P.) cyanosoma Cockerell, var. 



Female. — Length 8.5 mm.; body dark greenish, almost completely 

 covered with short whitish hairs; head covered with short hair that 

 is mostly whitish, the only dark or blackish hairs are sparsely scattered 

 along the inner and lower edge of the foveae, front longitudinally 

 striate throughout except laterally on the lower half where it is 

 reticulate and rather indefinitely punctured, fovea whitish except 

 for a few erect dark hairs, at most almost exactly two-thirds as wide 

 as the ocellocular line is long, attenuated below and reaching dis- 

 tinctly below the antennal line but not to the clypeal line, facial 

 line : transfacial line :: 50 : 61, axial line : temporal line :: 26 : 16, 

 joint 3 of antennae : joints 4 + 5 :: 7 : 6, joints 4-8 inclusive 

 apparently thicker than long, the remaining joints not much longer 

 than thick, antennae blackish except that beyond the fourth joint 

 they are brownish beneath, antennae dullish, end joint typical,, 

 clypeus convex, with adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, 

 clypeus appearing black, covered with sparse whitish hairs, clypearea 

 wanting, labrarea nearly twice as wide at base as at apex and 

 nearly as wide at apex as long down the middle, emargination tri- 

 angular and shallow, not extending more than one-fifth the length 

 of the labrarea from apex toward base, labrarea at base apparently 

 somewhat more than one-third as wide as the labrum which latter 

 has a fringe of golden hairs, base of mandibles and eye nearly adjoin- 

 ing, the malar space accordingly represented by not much more than 

 a shining line, mandibles black with the apical half mostly reddish, 

 castaneous except for a blackish stain near the middle of the apical 

 half, typical in shape, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax covered 

 with whitish hairs that are short and close together on the dorsum 

 and long and more separated on the pleurae and sternum, dorsulum 

 covered with adjoining or nearly adjoining and not well-defined 

 punctures, dullish, scutel sculptured much like the dorsulum, but 

 more shining, metanotum seemingly reticulated, more coarsely 

 sculptured than the dorsulum, tegulae, costa, subcosta and stigma 

 mostly blackish brown, rest of veins brownish stramineous, mem- 

 brane with a distinct brownish tinge, second submarginal cell appar- 

 ently longer than the first, second abscissa of cubitus apparently 

 as long as the first transverse cubitus, nearly half as long as the third 

 39 




588 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



and a little longer than the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus 

 received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the second abscissa of the median vein, legs dark brown, 

 covered with whitish or pale ochreous hairs except on the scopa where 

 the hairs of the upper half are brownish like the hairs at the base of 

 hind tibiae, inner side of hind metatarsus covered with golden brown 

 hairs, scopa loosely arranged, almost typical, onychii dark brown, 

 claws brownish stramineous the latter with brownish tips ; propodeum 

 with its enclosure funnel shaped, not well defined, rather coarsely 

 reticulated except on its posterior face where it is finely reticulated, 

 rest of propodeum more finely sculptured than the upper aspect of 

 the enclosure, propodeal pleurae fine reticulated and with a few indis- 

 tinctly defined punctures, posterior face of propodeum with a narrow 

 median, longitudinal sulcus; abdomen not fasciate, not sculptured 

 like the dorsulum, much more finely sculptured, reticulate, in addi- 

 tion to the reticulation there are widely separated, rather indefinite 

 punctures, second tergite depressed distinctly less than one-half 

 but more than one-third, abdomen covered with fine whitish hair 

 that is erect on the basal tergite and appressed elsewhere, depressed 

 portions of second, third and fourth tergites more or less brownish 

 toward the apex which latter is brownish stramineous, ventral aspect 

 of third tergite somewhat brownish, fimbria dark brown, pygidium 

 black, planate, indefinitely sculptured and with an indistinctly 

 defined central area. 



Andrena (Parandrena) mendosa new species. 



Type. — No. 4,021. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California, no further data; on the locality label 

 is a written j. 



Has characters in common with A. (P.) andrenoides (Cresson). 



Female. — Length 8 mm.; body black, covered with whitish hairs; 

 head covered with whitish hairs, with its facial line : transfacial 

 line :: 43 : 72, axial line : temporal line :: 22 : 13, front longitudi- 

 nally finely striate, foveal hairs whitish, fovea at most half as wide 

 as the ocellocular line is long, fovea attenuated below, extending to 

 or a little below the clypeal line, separated from the eye margin near 

 its upper end by a sloping nearly bare space that is nearly one-sixth 

 as wide as the ocellocular line is long, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 8 : 6, joints 4-10 inclusive wider or apparently wider than long, 

 terminal joint longer than wide and typical, antennae black or blackish 

 except beneath on the apical half where they are coffee-brown, face 




191(>.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. f>N<) 



seemingly sculptureless except for distinct punctures that are appar- 

 ently at most not more than two puncture widths apart, clypeus 

 convex, almost gabled down the middle, with a broad highly polished 

 clypearea somewhat like in A. (A.) miserabilis Cresson, on each 

 side of the clypearea and above the latter the clypeus is mostly 

 finely reticulated and punctured, the punctures mostly two to three 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus almost bare, labrarea triangular, 

 pointed at apex, at most between one-third and one-fourth as 

 long down the middle as wide at base, labrarea apparently not more 

 than one-third as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of golden 

 hairs, length of malar line : length of joint 3 of antenna; :: 2 : 8, 

 the elevated portion of the malar space apparently no longer than 

 the depressed portion, mandibles typical, robust, not extending to 

 the outer edge of the labrum, with their basal half black, the apical 

 half mostly reddish castaneous, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax 

 covered with whitish hairs throughout, dorsulum finely reticulated, 

 its punctures shallow and from two to six or more puncture widths 

 apart, notauli represented by impressed lines, scutel with its anterior 

 half mostly polished and sparsely punctured, its posterior half finely 

 sculptured, metanotum indefinitely sculptured, tegulae pale brownish 

 stramineous, wing base darker, subcosta blackish brown, costa 

 dark brown, stigma pale yellowish brown, rest of veins dark brownish 

 stramineous, membrane with a strong brownish tinge, second sub- 

 marginal cell distinctly shorter than the first, second abscissa of 

 cubitus apparently hardly longer than half of the length of the first 

 transverse cubitus and about one-fifth the length of the third abscissa 

 and exactly as long as the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus 

 received by the median cell and forming an acute angle with the 

 second abscissa of the median vein, legs black covered with whitish 

 hairs, hair of tibiae and tarsi rather ochreous, scopa compact, mostly 

 whitish, brownish at base, most of its hairs branched, tarsi and claws 

 dark brownish stramineous; propodeum with its enclosure poorly 

 defined, funnel shaped, finely reticulated, upper aspect of propodeum 

 outside of the enclosure finely and coarsely reticulated, pleurae of the 

 propodeum finely reticulated and with a few punctures; abdomen 

 shining, almost polished, delicately reticulated, more finely and 

 sparsely punctured than the dorsulum, second tergite depressed 

 between one-third and one-fourth, abdomen inconspicuously covered 

 with fine whitish hair, second, third and fourth tergites with a distinct 

 apical fringe of white hair that is interrupted in the middle of the 

 second and third tergites, apical margin of fourth tergite brownish, 




590 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV, r 



other depressed margins black, fimbria whitish with an ochreous 

 tinge, pygidium black. 



Other Locality. — Nevada (H. K. Morrison). 



Andrena (Parandrena) olivacea new species. 



Type. — No. 4,022. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (P.) perchalybea Viereck. 



Female.- — Length 9.5 mm.; body greenish and almost completely 

 covered with whitish pubescence, compared with the original descrip- 

 tion of A. (P.) perchalybea Viereck this species differs as follows: 

 head covered with long hair that is whitish throughout, front longi- 

 tudinally striate except above the antennal scrobes where it is 

 indefinitely reticulate and sparsely punctured, fovea whitish, at most 

 hardly more if more than half as wide as the ocellocular line is long, 

 fovea hardly attenuated below and extending only a little below 

 the antennal line, facial line : transfacial line :: 57 : 72, axial line : 

 temporal line :: 31 : 20, joint 3 of antennae : joints 4 + 5 :: 9 : 7, 

 black apical third of clypeus separated from the greenish basal 

 portion by a coppery zone, brownish part of antennae pale yellowish 

 brown; thorax covered throughout with whitish hairs, dorsulum 

 with deep punctures, bounding veins of stigma, stigma and costa 

 yellowish stramineous, rest of veins pale brownish stramineous, 

 membrane almost colorless, with a yellowish brown tinge, hair of 

 the black legs more or less whitish with an ochreous tinge, inner side 

 of metatarsi with brownish hairs, plumose hairs of scopa darker than 

 the simple hairs, rather ochreous except at the base of the tibiae where 

 they are brownish, claws brownish stramineous throughout except 

 that the hind claws are castaneous at their tips; propodeum with its 

 enclosure finely sculptured on the posterior aspect, the upper aspect 

 longitudinally rugose on each side of a median longitudinal carina, 

 rest of upper aspect of propodeum coarsely reticulated, rest of 

 propodeum finely reticulated and with widely separated shallow 

 punctures; abdomen with its pygidium planate otherwise apparently 

 as in the original description with which this species is compared. 



Allotopotype. — The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 

 Length 6.5 mm.; body as in the female as described above; head 

 with its facial line : transfacial line :: 46 : 53, axial line : tem- 

 poral line :: 26 : 15, temples neither carinate nor angulate but 

 subtrapezoidal, front striatopunctate, clypeus convex, its punc- 

 tures adjoining or almost adjoining, clypeus blackish along the 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 591 



anterior edge, hairs of clypeus forming a moustache that nearly 

 obscures the sculpture, clypcarea wanting, malar space virtually 

 wanting, represented by not much more than a shining line, 

 joint 3 of antenna? : joint 4 :: 7 : 3 and : joints 4 + 5 :: 7 : 8, 

 joint 6 and succeeding joints distinctly longer than wide, joint 4 

 distinctly wider than long, antennae blackish brown throughout, 

 dullish, end joint typical, clypearea semicircular emarginate to the 

 base, appearing as a nearly triangular tubercle on each side of the 

 emargination, at most the labrarea is hardly half as long as wide at 

 base, otherwise the labrum is much the same as in the female, mandi- 

 bles robust not so greatly attenuated as in typical Andrena, simple, 

 black, apical half mostly reddish castaneous, palpi apparently as in 

 the female; thorax as in the female except that the dorsulum is 

 mostly coppery and not so distinctly or closely punctured, nervulus 

 more nearly interstitial but still received by the median cell, stigma 

 and costa dark brownish,, the stigma a brighter brown than the costa, 

 otherwise the wings are similar to the wings in the female, legs black, 

 with whitish hairs even on the inner side of metatarsi and all over 

 hind tibiae, the latter at most distinctly less than twice as wide as 

 greatest width of hind metatarsi, otherwise the legs are much the 

 same as in the female; propodeum as in the female except that the 

 upper aspect both outside and inside the enclosure is rather finely 

 reticulated and that the rather coarse rugce on each side of the median 

 longitudinal carina in the female are here represented by poorly 

 developed ruga? on each side of the median longitudinal carina; 

 abdomen very similar to the female abdomen, hair at apex whitish 

 with an ochreous tinge, anal process truncate with a pale stramineous 

 margin. 



Andrena (Parandrena) perchalybia new species. 



Type. — Xo. 4,023. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Washington State (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (P.) cyanosoma Cockerell var. 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body dark greenish, almost completely 

 covered with dark brown or blackish hair; head covered with long 

 hair that is mostly brownish but largely blackish on the face, front 

 longitudinally striate down the middle, punctured and indefinitely 

 reticulate on the sides, fovea seal-brown, at most less than one-half 

 as wide as the ocellocular line is long, but more than one-third as 

 wide as the latter line is long, fovea attenuated below and reaching 

 to or a little below the antennal line, facial line : transfacial line : : 




592 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



57 : 71, axial line : temporal line :: 33 : 20, joint 3 of antennae : 

 joints 4 + 5 :: 11 : 9, joints 4-8 inclusive apparently thicker 

 than long, the remaining joints not much longer than thick, antennae 

 blackish except that beyond the fourth joint they are brownish 

 beneath, antennae dullish, end joint typical, clypeus convex, with 

 almost adjoining and adjoining punctures, clypeus appearing blackish, 

 almost hidden by the dark brown pubescence, clypearea wanting, 

 labrarea at most apparently a little more than half as long as wide at 

 base and shaped somewhat thus, CO, i.e., like a capital b lying on its 

 straight side, labrarea at base apparently somewhat more than 

 one-third as wide as the labrum which latter has a fringe of golden 

 brown hairs, base of mandibles and eye nearly adjoining, the malar 

 space accordingly represented by not much more than a shining line, 

 mandibles black with the apical half mostly blackish castaneous, 

 typical in shape, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax covered with 

 black or dark brown hairs except around the tubercles where there 

 is some pale, apparently ochreous hair, dorsulum finely reticulated, 

 also with shallow punctures that are as many as four puncture widths 

 apart, scutel and metanotum sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 the metanotum, however, not so definitely sculptured as the scutel] 

 tegulae and subcosta blackish-brown, bounding veins of the stigma 

 almost concolorous with the subcosta, stigma yellowish brown, rest 

 of veins brownish stramineous, membrane with a distinct brownish 

 tinge, second submarginal cell apparently longer than the first, second 

 abscissa of cubitus apparently as long as the first transverse cubitus, 

 nearly half as long as the third and a little longer than the fourth 

 abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus received by the median cell and 

 forming an acute angle with second abscissa of the median vein, 

 pubescence of the blackish legs pale brown except that the hair of 

 the fore femora is fuscous like the hair at the base of hind tibiae; 

 scopa as in A. (P.) subchalybea Viereck except that the simple hairs 

 are ochreous rather than whitish, hair on inner side of hind metatarsus 

 golden brown, onychii and claws brownish stramineous, the latter 

 with castaneous tips; propodeum with its enclosure funnel shaped, 

 well defined, finely sculptured and with an irregular net work of 

 rugae in addition to the underlying sculpture, rest of propodeum 

 except its pleurae sculptured much like the enclosure but more 

 coarsely so, propodeal pleurae finely reticulated and with a few crater- 

 like punctures, posterior face of propodeum with a narrow median, 

 longitudinal sulcus; abdomen not fasciate, sculptured like the 

 dorsulum but with distinctly smaller punctures that are apparently, 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 593 



in part, more widely separated, second tergite depressed distinctly 

 less than one-half but more than one-third, abdomen covered with 

 fine almost whitish hair that is erect on the basal tergite and appressed 

 elsewhere, depressed portions of second, third and fourth tergites 

 more or less brownish stramineous, ventral aspect of third tergite 

 somewhat brownish, fimbria fuscous brown, pygidium convex, black, 

 without an impressed line or other definite sculpture. 

 Andrena (Parandrena) subchalybea new species. 



Type. — No. 4,024. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality.— Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Has characters in common with A. (P.) manifesto, (Fox). 



Female. — Length 8.5 mm.; body greenish, covered with whitish 

 and black pubescence; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 

 56 : 64, axial line : temporal line :: 28 : 9, covered with blackish 

 brown pubescence except on the vertex where it is whitish tinged 

 with brown, front longitudinally striate and reticulate, foveal hairs 

 seal-brown, fovea at most less than half but more than one-third as 

 wide as the ocellocular line is long, separated from the eye margin 

 near its upper end by a sloping, nearly bare space that is nearly 

 one-sixth as wide as the ocellocular line is long, fovea attenuated 

 below and almost reaching the antennal line, joint 3 of antennae 

 distinctly longer than 4 + 5, but distinctly shorter than 4 + 5 + 6, 

 joints 4-10 inclusive wider or apparently wider than long, terminal 

 joint longer than wide and typical, antennae blackish except the 

 flagel which beyond the third joint is brownish beneath, face 

 with shallow nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus indistinctly punc- 

 tured, appearing rippled, anterior half of clypeus dark and bronzy 

 almost hidden by the pubescence, clypearea wanting, clypeus convex, 

 labrarea at most not more than half as long as wide at base, tri- 

 angularly emarginate, labrarea apparently somewhat less than 

 one-third as wide as the labrum which latter has a fringe of shining- 

 brownish stramineous hairs, base of mandibles and eye nearly 

 adjoining, the malar space accordingly represented by not much more 

 than a shining line, mandibles robust, blackish, mostly castaneous 

 beyond the basal half, typical in shape, palpi slender nearly typical; 

 thorax covered with whitish pubescence, tinged with brown on the 

 pleura, thoracic pubescence mixed with black or blackish hairs that 

 are easily overlooked on the dorsulum, all hairs black on anterior 

 and posterior margin of mesopleurae, dorsulum finely reticulated, 

 also with shallow punctures that are as many as five puncture widths 




594 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



apart, scutel and metanotum sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 the metanotum with the sculpture indefinite on its posterior edge, 

 tegulse and wing base dark brown, subcosta and stigma almost 

 concolorous, dark brown, rest of veins and the membrane brown- 

 ish stramineous, second submarginal cell apparently longer than the 

 first, second abscissa of cubitus apparently as long as the first trans- 

 verse cubitus, nearly half as long as the third and nearly one and 

 one-half times as long as the fourth abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus 

 received by the median cell and forming an acute angle with the 

 second abscissa of the median vein, pubescence of the brownish to 

 black legs whitish with a brownish tinge excepting the fore legs, the 

 pubescence of which is mostly fuscous, like the hairs at the base of 

 the scopa, scopa loose and nearly typical in character on the lower 

 half where its hairs are simple and whitish, atypical on the upper 

 half where the hairs are mostly branched and brownish, hairs of 

 the inner side of hind metatarsus silvery and pale golden, onychii 

 and claws pale stramineous, the latter with dark tips; propodeum 

 with its enclosure funnel shaped, well defined, finely sculptured and 

 with an irregular net work of rugse in addition to the underlying 

 sculpture, rest of propodeum except its pleurae sculptured much like 

 the enclosure but more coarsely so, propodeal pleurae finely reticulated 

 and with a few crater-like punctures, posterior face of propodeum 

 with a narrow, median, longitudinal sulcus; abdomen sculptured like 

 the dorsulum but with distinctly smaller punctures that are appar- 

 ently, in part, more widely separated, second tergite depressed 

 distinctly less than one-half but more than one-third, abdomeft 

 covered with fine whitish hair that is erect on the basal tergite and 

 appressed elsewhere, depressed portions of second, third and fourth 

 tergites more or less brownish stramineous, ventral aspect of third 

 tergite brownish, fimbria pale brown, pygidium distinctly longer 

 than wide at base, planate, rounded at apex, with a finely sculp- 

 tured enclosure, the sculpture of which resembles stippling, base of 

 pygidium pale brown followed by dark brown, most of pygidium 

 black. 



Andrena (Parandrena) submoesta new species. 



Type. — No. 4,025. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California; no further data; on the locality 

 label is a written "u." 



Related to A. (P.) subchalybea Viereck. 



Female. — Length 7 mm.; body greenish and clothed with whitish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 595 



hairs, compared with the original description of A. (P.) subchalybea 

 Viereck this species differs as follows: head with its facial line : trans- 

 facial line :: 40 : 57, axial line : temporal line :: 23 : 13, covered 

 throughout with whitish hairs, front finely longitudinally striate, 

 frontal crista well developed, foveal hairs ochreous, fovea extending 

 nearly to the antenna! line, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 7 : 6, 

 flagel beyond the sixth joint rather pale brownish beneath, face with 

 indist inci punctures that are as many as five or more puncture widl hs 

 apart and indistinctly reticulated, clypeus sculptured much like the 

 face, clypeus mostly faintly bronzy, its tegument easily seen through 

 the rather thin pubescence, labrarea subtruncate, almost pointed at 

 apex, labral fringe golden; thorax including pleurae with whitish 

 hairs except on the tergum where the hairs have an ochreous tinge, 

 subcosta blackish, stigma and rest of veins almost concolorous, 

 dark brownish stramineous, stigma, costa and radial vein darkest, 

 second abscissa distinctly shorter than the first transverse cubitus, 

 less than half as long as the third and hardly longer than the fourth 

 abscissa of the cubitus, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the first abscissa of the median vein, legs brownish, 

 covered with whitish or pale ochreous hairs, hairs of femora and 

 tibise rather ochreous, scopa almost typical in character, mostly with 

 long, simple, ochreous hairs, hairs along the upper edge shorter, 

 darker and branched, hair at base of scopa brownish, hair on under 

 side of metatarsi golden, onychii and claws as well as the small tarsal 

 joints yellowish stramineous, the claws with dark tips; propodeum 

 with its enclosure poorly defined, finely, rather indistinctly reticulate 

 except for some feeble rugae down the middle and along the basal 

 margin, rest of the upper aspect or the propodeum more distinctly 

 reticulated; abdomen with the second tergite depressed hardly more 

 than one-fourth, tergites satiny, ventral aspect of first and second 

 tergites also brownish, second, third and fourth tergites with a dis- 

 tinct apical band of appressed whitish hairs that is interrupted 

 medially on the second and third tergites, fimbria pale golden 

 brown, pygidium mostly hidden by the fimbria, its apex nearly 

 pointed and blackish. 

 Andrena Ptilandrena) francisca now spocios. 



Type. — No. 4,026. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California. (No further data.) 



Related to A. (P.) ccerulea territa Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body bluish, covered mostly with 




596 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



blackish hairs; compared with the original description of A. (P.) 

 pediculihirta Viereck this species differs as follows: head with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 60 : 67, axial line : temporal line :: 

 27 : 15, covered with blackish hairs except in the foveae, the latter 

 with seal-brown appressed hairs and long blackish hairs, fovea at 

 most hardly one-half as wide as the ocellocular line is long, extending 

 only a little below the antennal line, separated from the eye margin 

 by a nearly bare band that is nearly one-sixth as wide as the greatest 

 foveal width, front not elevated along the inner edge of the fovea, 

 joint 3 and succeeding joints of antennae lost but probably the 

 antennae are as in the species with which this is compared, clypearea 

 wanting, clypeus finely reticulated, sparsely, indistinctly punc- 

 tured, more sparsely and more indistinctly punctured than the 

 face, blackish except basal half which is greenish and coppery, 

 labrarea subemarginate, at most nearly three times as wide at 

 base as long, the emargination extending nearly one-fourth the dis- 

 tance from apex to base, labrarea about half as wide at apex as at 

 base, malar line short, its proportion probably the same as in the 

 species with which this is compared, mandibles extending to the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black, apical half partly blackish castaneous; 

 thorax covered with blackish hairs except on the dorsulum where the 

 hairs are mostly ochreous interspersed with black hairs and on the 

 scutel and the metanotum where the hairs are all ochreous, dorsulum 

 dullish, finely reticulated, somewhat more closely punctured than in 

 the species with which this is compared, notauli represented by 

 almost elevated lines, scutel sculptured much like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum indefinitely sculptured, wing base blackish brown, stigma 

 throughout and all veins except subcosta and membrane dull 

 brownish stramineous, nervulus interstitial, forming an acute angle 

 with the second abscissa of the median vein, legs blackish brown, 

 covered with blackish hairs except on the inner surface of the 

 hind metatarsi where it is pale seal-brown, scopa with blackish, 

 feathery hairs throughout; propodeum with its enclosure separable 

 from the surrounding area only by reason of being impunctate, 

 without a median, longitudinal raised line, rest of upper aspect of 

 propodeum greenish blue, sparsely punctured and reticulated, the 

 reticulation nearly the same as in the enclosure, most hairs of upper 

 aspect of propodeum ochreous, rest of propodeum with blackish 

 hairs, propodeal pleurae greenish blue; abdomen with its tergum 

 bluish, not fasciate but covered throughout with blackish hairs ex- 

 cept on the first and second segments where there are some ochreous 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 597 



hairs, fimbria blackish brown, pygidium blackish, slightly convex 

 near apex and nearly pointed. 

 Andrena (Ptilandrena) nubilifascia new species. 



Type. — No. 4,027. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality.- — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Related to A. (P.) pallidifovea Viereck. 



Female. — Length 11.5 mm.; body black, mostly covered with 

 whitish hairs, compared with the original description of A. (P.) 

 pediculihirta Viereck, this species differs as follows: head with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 35 : 23, covered with whitish hairs 

 except on the labrum and mandibles where the hairs are brown- 

 ish, fovese with whitish hairs throughout, separated from the eye 

 margin near its upper end by a nearly bare band that is nearly 

 one-fourth as wide as the greatest foveal width, front not elevated 

 along the inner edge of fovea, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 5 :: 10 : 9, 

 joints 4 and 5 apparently thicker than long, the succeeding joints 

 longer than thick, face nearly as closely and nearly as distinctly 

 punctured as the clypeus, the punctures seemingly at most two 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus indistinctly reticulated, and cov- 

 ered with distinct adjoining or almost adjoining punctures, clypeus 

 hardly elevated above the apical margin, labrarea a little more 

 than three times as wide at base as long down the middle and a 

 little more than half as wide at apex as at base, malar line : joint 

 3 of antennae nearly :: 1 : 10; thorax covered with thin whitish 

 hairs, dorsulum dullish, sculptured much like the clypeus but with 

 its reticulation more distinct, notauli represented by a shining line, 

 scutel mostly more densely sculptured than the dorsulum, its an- 

 terior edge shining, metanotum sculptured much like the posterior 

 half of the scutel, nervulus received by the first discoidal cell, nearly 

 interstitial, forming an acute angle with the first abscissa of the 

 discoidal vein, legs covered with dark brown to blackish hairs except 

 on the femora where most of the hair is pale ochreous and on fore 

 tarsi where it is pale golden brown, scopa with blackish brown 

 branched hairs throughout, greatest width of mid metatarsi : greatest 

 width of hind metatarsi :: 11 : 12; propodeum with its upper aspect 

 outside the enclosure sculptured almost like the dorsulum but not 

 so distinctly punctured; abdomen almost polished and distinctly 

 punctured, with three thin white fascia? outside of which the tergites 

 are covered with blackish brown hair excepting the first and second 

 and extreme sides of the third and fourth tergites where there is more 




598 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



or less pale hair, punctures of first tergite spaced nearly as on the 

 dorsulum, second tergite with smaller, closer punctures than the 

 first tergite, indistinctly reticulate, length from base of punctured 

 portion to apex of second tergite : length of depressed margin down 

 the middle :: 28 : 8, third tergite sculptured much like the second, 

 fourth tergite less distinctly punctured but more distinctly reticulated 

 than the preceding tergite, fifth tergite dullish, reticulated and with 

 punctures that are nearly as large and as sparsely or more sparsely 

 distributed than on the first tergite, fimbria dark seal-brown, 

 pygidium slightly convex, nearly truncate at apex, blackish, without 

 an enclosure, indefinitely sculptured, base of pygidium pale brown. 



Andrena (Ptilandrena) pediculihirta new species. 



Type. — No. 4,028. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Southern California (H. K. Morrison). 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body black, covered with pale ochreous 

 hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 59 : 73, axial 

 line : temporal line :: 28 : 15, covered with pale ochreous almost 

 whitish hair except in the upper half of the fovese and on the labrum, 

 front rather coarsely longitudinally striate, fovese with whitish hairs 

 on the lower half, the upper half with its hairs mostly pale seal-brown, 

 fovese at most a little more than half as wide as the ocellocular line 

 is long, attenuated below and extending to or close to the clypeal 

 line, hardly separated from the eye margin near its upper end, front 

 welted along the inner edge of fovea, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 9 : 8, joints 4-10 inclusive apparently thicker than long, the 

 succeeding joints longer than thick, terminal joint typical, an- 

 tennse blackish throughout, face shining, indistinctly reticulated, 

 rather indistinctly punctured, the punctures as many as three 

 puncture widths apart, clypeus convex with a narrow, dullish re- 

 ticulated clypearea down the middle, but not extending to the 

 apex, clypeus on each side of and below the clypearea reticulated 

 and punctured, more closely and distinctly punctured than the face, 

 elypeus decidedly elevated above the apical margin, the elevated 

 edge with a shining border that is nearly sculptureless, clypeus 

 thinly hairy its surface not at all hidden by the hairs, labrarea 

 truncate, nearly four times as wide at base as long down the middle 

 .and apparently exactly as long down the middle as wide at apex, 

 labrarea at base nearly half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a 

 fringe of golden brown hairs, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 15 : 8, 

 the elevated portion nearly as long as the depressed portion, mandi- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 599 



bles typical, robust, not quite extending to the outer edge of the 

 labrum, with their basal half black, apical half mostly dark reddish, 

 palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax covered with pale ochreous, 

 almost whitish hairs, dorsulum shining, partly indistinctly reticulated, 

 partly polished, punctured, the {junctures from two to five puncture 

 widths apart, notauli represented by an impressed line, scutel with 

 its anterior half mostly shining almost polished and punctured some- 

 what like the dorsulum, its posterior half mostly dullish and finely 

 reticulated in addition to being punctured like the anterior half, 

 metanotum sculptured somewhat like the posterior half of the scutel, 

 tegulie blackish, wing base partly blackish, subcosta and lower edge 

 of stigma blackish, stigma dark reddish brown, stramineous, rest 

 of veins and membrane dull brownish stramineous, first recurrent 

 vein received by the second submarginal cell before the middle and 

 not as near to the first transverse cubitus as the latter is to the 

 stigma on the radius, nervulus received by the median cell, nearly 

 interstitial and forming an acute angle with the second abscissa 

 of the median vein, legs black, tarsi and claws mostly brownish, 

 legs Covered with pale ochreous hairs, mid metatarsi distinctly wider 

 than hind metatarsi, scopa rather compact, nearly obscuring the 

 tibia, lower edge with nearly whitish hairs, base of scopa with pale 

 brownish hairs; propodeum with its enclosure finely reticulate and 

 with a median, longitudinal raised line, rest of superior aspect of 

 propodeum with a coarse network in addition to indistinct fine 

 reticulation, propodeal pleurae with very fine reticulations, almost 

 polished, and partly with sparse punctures; abdomen shining, in- 

 distinctly punctured and reticulated, second tergite depressed more 

 than one-third but less than one-half, tergum with dark brownish 

 appressed hairs, and three white hair bands the first of which is 

 interrupted in the middle, fimbria whitish at base pale seal-brown 

 beyond the middle, pygidium convex, black, finely but indefinitely 

 sculptured, nearly pointed at apex without apparent impressed 

 lateral lines. 



Andrena fScrapter) alamonis new species. 



Type. — No. 4,029. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Alamogordo, New Mexico, April 16, 1902 (H. L. 

 Viereck). Related to A. (S.) imitatrix Cresson. 



Female. — Length 10 mm.; body black, covered with whitish hairs; 

 head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 60 : 74, axial line : tem- 

 poral line :: 32 : 19, black, its pubescence whitish except along 




600 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NOV., 



the lower edge of the labrum where it is brownish, fovea with 

 whitish pubescence, fovea nearly three-fourths as wide along the 

 ocellocular line as the latter is long, hardly separated from the 

 eye margin where the ocellocular line joins the latter, fovarea not 

 trenchant, impunctate but represented by a shining space that 

 is widest and almost angulate at a point nearly half way between 

 the anterior ocellus and the antennal line, fovea apparently extending 

 a little below the clypeal line and distinctly extending far below the 

 antennal line, clypearea present, the punctures on each side of it as 

 many as five or more puncture widths apart, elsewhere on the clypeus 

 the punctures are from adjoining to one and two puncture widths 

 apart, clypeus convex, polished, indistinctly or not at all reticulate, 

 mandibles almost entirely blackish or entirely blackish, palpi typical, 

 joint 3 of antennae slightly though distinctly shorter than joints 

 4 + 5 or joint 3 : 4 + 5 :: 7 : 8, antennae blackish brown, labrarea 

 truncate, subemarginate, apparently half again as long down the 

 middle as wide at apex and at least three times as wide at base as at 

 apex; thorax black, with whitish pubescence that has an ochreous 

 tinge on the dorsal surface, dorsulum shining, reticulate and dis- 

 tinctly punctured, the punctures from nearly adjoining to five or 

 more puncture widths apart, scutel sculptured like the dorsulum, 

 metanotum more densely sculptured than the scutel, legs pubescent 

 like the thorax except that the hairs are mostly darker with a 

 golden to brownish golden tinge, scopa pale golden, its hairs not so 

 dense as to obscure the tegument, the arrangement and character 

 typical, tarsi rather pale brown except the metatarsi which are 

 very dark brown, hind femora with golden brown hairs at apex, 

 tegulae brownish stramineous, wing base blackish, stigma dark 

 brown, subcosta blackish, veins brownish stramineous, membrane 

 with a brownish stramineous tinge, first recurrent vein received 

 by the second submarginal cell nearer the second transverse 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma, nervulus 

 received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming an acute 

 angle with the second abscissa of the median vein; propodeum 

 regulose except for the enclosure which is plicate, somewhat as in A. 

 (Scrapter) cratcegi Robertson, enclosure defined by the difference in 

 sculpture and with a median longitudinal low crista; abdomen pol- 

 ished, black, without a metallic tinge, depressed portion of tergites 

 brownish, the tergites covered with setigerous punctures that are 

 seemingly sparser and distinctly smaller than on the dorsulum; 

 abdomen appearing bare without fasciae, its pubescence whitish 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



except that the fimbria is pale golden, fifth tergite punctured and 

 dullish, reticulate, pygidium blackish, slightly convex, with a lateral 

 impressed line on each side near the base, smooth and apparently 

 finely sculptured. 



Recalls A. (A.) cressonii Robertson and allies, but is no doubt 

 properly placed in species group imitatrix. 



Andrena (Trachandrena) marioides new species 



Type. — No. 4,030. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Nevada (Morrison). 



Related to .4. (T.) cleodora Viereck. 



Female. — Length 9 mm.; head black, its pubescence ochreous 

 except along the lower edge of the labrum where it is brownish, fovea 

 with pale ochreous pubescence, a little more than two-thirds as wide 

 along the ocellocular line as the latter is long, narrowly separated 

 from the eye margin where the ocellocular line joins the latter, fovea 

 deep its boundary along the front almost vertical, fovarea rather 

 well developed, punctured, angulate at a point nearly half way 

 between the anterior ocellus and the antennal line, fovea extending 

 distinctly below the antennal line but apparently falling short of 

 the clypeal line, clypearea wanting, clypeal punctures distinct, 

 adjoining or almost adjoining all over, clypeus convex, polished, 

 apparently not at all reticulate, mandibles black, reddish castaneous 

 near the middle and at apex, palpi typical, joint 3 of 

 antennae : 4 + 5 : : 4 : 5, antenna? blackish brown, labrarea truncate, 

 apparently as wide at apex as long down the middle and at least 

 two and one-half times as wide at base as at apex; thorax black, and 

 with ochreous pubescence that has a reddish tinge on the dorsal 

 surface, dorsulum shining, reticulate and distinctly punctured, its 

 punctures from one to five or more puncture widths apart, scutel 

 sculptured like the dorsulum, metanotum densely sculptured, legs 

 pubescent like the thorax except that the hairs of the tibia? and tarsi 

 are more golden than ochreous, scopa pale golden its hairs almosl 

 dense enough to obscure the tegument, their arrangement and 

 character typical, tarsi and hind tibia? rather stramineous, rest of 

 legs blackish brown, tegulse and wing base brownish stramineous, 

 stigma pale brownish stramineous, subcosta blackish brown, border 

 of stigma and remaining veins brownish stramineous, darker than 

 the stigma, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell nearer the second transverse cubitus than the first transverse 

 cubitus is to the stigma, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute 




602 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.,. 



angle with the first abscissa of the discoidal vein; propodeum with a 

 well-defined enclosure that is finely reticulate and traversed by rather 

 longitudinal crooked and delicate rugae, rest of propodeum more 

 coarsely rugose than the enclosure which latter ends in a sharp 

 edge at apex; abdomen polished, reddish with blackish stains down 

 the middle of the tergum, without a metallic tinge, depressed portion 

 of second tergite down the middle : elevated portion :: 17 : 7, 

 second, third and fourth tergites with a distinct lateral fascia as in 

 A. (7\) salicifloris Cockerell, abdomen sparsely inconspicuously 

 punctured, the punctures of the elevated portion more distinct 

 than those of the depressed portion, abdominal pubescence whitish 

 with an ochreous tinge, fimbria yellowish golden, fifth tergite dullish, 

 punctured, no definite sculpture between the punctures, planate with 

 a triangular dark reddish brown area that is indistinctly punctured 

 separated from a blackish margin by an impressed line on each side 

 of the pygidium. 



In a paratopotype the nervulus is received by the median cell 

 and the first recurrent vein is received by the second cubital cell 

 almost in the middle. 



Other Locality. — A paratype from Ogden, Utah, May 16, 1915 

 (A. Wetmore) [U. S. Biological Survey], has the abdomen reddish 

 throughout and may represent a pale race of this species. 



Andrena (Trachandrena) nortoni new species. 



Type. — No. 4,031. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — California, No. 10 (E. Norton). 



Related to A. (T.) swenki Viereck and Cockerell. 



Female. — Length 9 mm.; body black, mostly covered with bright 

 ochreous hairs; head covered with bright ochreous hairs, with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 62 : 73, axial line : temporal line :: 

 30 : 17, malar line : joint 3 of antennas :: a little more than 1 : 8, 

 elevated portion of malar space nearly as long as depressed 

 portion, front polished and punctured, the punctures as many as 

 three puncture widths apart, not elevated along inner foveal edge, 

 fovea at most : ocellocular line :: 12 : 14, foveal band wanting, 

 fovea virtually contiguous to the upper end of the inner eye 

 margin, distance between fovea and ocelli : ocellocular line :: 

 1.5 : 14, fovea decidedly constricted near its middle where it is 

 apparently only one-fourth as wide as the greatest width of the 

 fovea, the latter continued below the constriction as a narrowing 

 furrow down to a point apparently on the clypeal line, fovea pale 




1916.] N LTURAL SCIENCES UK PHILADELPHIA. 603 



ochreous throughout, fovarea widest a little below the middle of the 

 fovea, angulated at its widest point where it is as wide as the 

 fovea is wide opposite the angulation of the fovarea, the latter 

 polished and with a few large punetures, face polished, with 

 large adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus slightly 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and punctured 

 much like the face, elypearea present on the apical two-thirds of the 

 clypeus, the latter thinly hairy, its surface not at all hidden by hairs, 

 labrarea truncate, width at base : length down the middle and width 

 at apex :: 10 : 4, labrarea at base half as wide as the labrum, the 

 latter with a fringe of pale golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 + 

 5 :: 8 : 10, joint 4 thicker than long, the succeeding joints longer than 

 thick, antenna? blackish throughout, mandibles typical, robust, 

 extending to the outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical 

 half which is clear, dark reddish, palpi nearly- typical; thorax covered 

 with an abundance of slender hairs which are reddish on the dorsulum 

 where they are shorter than the ochreous hairs on the mesopleurae, 

 dorsulum dullish, finely reticulated, coarsely punctured, the punc- 

 tures ranging from adjoining to one puncture width apart, notauli 

 represented by an impressed dullish line, mesopleurae with pale 

 ochreous hairs, except along the upper margin where the hairs are 

 reddish, finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow, adjoining 

 pits, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum except for 

 being less reticulate and distinctly shining, metanotum hairy and 

 sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculpture is denser, 

 tegulse dark brownish stramineous, polished, wing base partly 

 blackish brown, subcosta blackish brown, stigma brownish stra- 

 mineous with a reddish tinge, rest of veins dull stramineous, with a 

 blackish tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell beyond the middle and a little nearer to the second transverse 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the 

 radial vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle with the 

 first abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown except 

 for the tarsi and hind tibia? which are more or less brownish stra- 

 mineous, legs covered with pale ochreous or golden hairs, scopa 

 typical, its hairs of a golden hue, and concolorous throughout except 

 the hairs at base above which are slightly darkened, hind metatarsi 

 at most apparently as wide as midmetatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure feebly defined except at apex where its truncature is 

 bounded by a carina, finely reticulated and in addition with a loose 

 network of sharp rugae on each side of a median longitudinal carina, 

 40 




604 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



rest of upper face of propodeum sculptured somewhat like the 

 mesopleurae but with smaller pits, and covered with pale ochreous 

 hair, propodeal pleurae with sparse shallow excavations that are 

 finely reticulated and almost hidden by the pale ochreous propodeal 

 floccus; abdomen with its tergum polished, punctured, the puncture 

 clear cut but small, from two to many puncture widths apart 

 on the first tergite, from adjoining to one puncture width apart on 

 the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth tergites where 

 the punctures are larger than on the depressed portions and from 

 one to four puncture widths apart on the depressed portions of the 

 second, third and fourth tergites, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion down the middle : depressed portion :: 6 : 16, fifth tergite 

 shining reticulate, with its punctures from adjoining to four punc- 

 ture widths apart, pygidium, black, planate and rounded at apex, 

 tergum with inconspicuous pale hairs, second, third and fourth 

 tergites with a broadly interrupted golden ochreous hair band, 

 fimbria golden ochreous. 



AUotopotype.- — The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



Length 7 mm.; body black, mostly covered with bright ochreous 

 hair; head covered with pale ochreous hairs throughout, with its 

 facial line : transfacial line :: 49 : 61, axial line : temporal line :: 

 26 : 10, temples rounded, subtrapezoidal, malar line : joint 3 of 

 antennae :: 1.5 : 6, elevated portion of malar space shorter than the 

 depressed portion, front dullish with adjoining, shallow pits that are 

 reticulate, laterally striate-pitted, and striate, ocellocular line : ocell- 

 occipital line :: 13 : 5, face dullish, indistinctly reticulate and with 

 large rather coarse nearly adjoining or adjoining punctures, clypeus 

 apparently not elevated directly above the apical margin, convex, 

 polished and punctured much like the face, clypearea present but 

 not well developed and confined to the anterior half, sculpture of 

 the clypeus nearly hidden by the moustache, labrarea truncate, width 

 at base : length down the middle :: 9 : 2.5, width at apex : length 

 down the middle :: 4 : 2.5, labrarea at base apparently a little more 

 than half as wide as the labrum, the latter with a fringe of pale 

 golden hairs, joint 3 of antennae : 4 :: 6 : 10, joint 4 and following 

 joints from a little more than twice as long as thick to nearly twice 

 as long as thick, dullish, fiagel somewhat undulate in outline, antennae 

 blackish throughout, mandibles atypical, robust, extending to the 

 outer edge of the labrum, black except for the apical half which is 

 clear dark reddish, palpi nearly typical; thor-ax covered with an 

 abundance of slender pale ochreous hairs, hairs of dorsulum seem- 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G05 



ingly as long as hair of mesopleurse, dorsulum dullish, finely re- 

 ticulated, coarsely punctured, the punctures ranging from adjoin- 

 ing to three puncture widths apart, notauli represented by an 

 impressed dullish line, mesopleurse with pale ochreous hairs through- 

 out, finely reticulated and mostly covered with shallow, adjoining 

 pits, scutel hairy and sculptured much like the dorsulum, metanotum 

 hairy and sculptured like the dorsulum except that the sculpture 

 is denser, tegulse dark blackish brown and brownish stramineous, 

 polished, wing base mostly pale stramineous, subcosta brownish 

 stramineous with a blackish tinge, stigma brownish stramineous 

 with a reddish tinge, rest of veins dull stramineous with a blackish 

 tinge, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal cell 

 beyond the middle and a little nearer to the second transverse 

 cubitus than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial 

 vein, nervulus interstitial and forming an acute angle with the first 

 abscissa of the discoidal vein, legs blackish brown excepting the 

 tarsi and hind tibiae which are rather dark brownish stramineous, 

 legs covered with pale ochreous hairs, hind metatarsi at most hardly 

 wider than mid metatarsi and nearly half as wide as hind tibiae at 

 apex of the latter; propodeum with its enclosure feebly defined, not 

 sharply truncate but truncate at apex, finely reticulated and in 

 addition with about six crooked, longitudinal carinse on each side of 

 a nearly straight median longitudinal carina, rest of upper face 

 sculptured somewhat like the mesopleurse but with smaller pits 

 and covered with pale ochreous hair, propodeal pleurae sculptured 

 apparently like the mesopleurse the sculpture nearly hidden by 

 the uniformly distributed pale ochreous hairs; abdomen with its 

 tergum polished excepting the elevated portions of tergites which 

 are partly reticulate but yet nearly polished, punctured, the punc- 

 tures small and not clear cut, from two to many puncture widths 

 apart on the first tergite, from one to three puncture widths apart 

 on the elevated portion of the second, third and fourth tergites where 

 the punctures are larger than on the depressed portions where 

 the punctures are farther apart, second tergite with its elevated 

 portion clown the middle : depressed portion :: 10 : 8, fifth tergite 

 with its basal blackish portion covered with poorly defined punc- 

 tures that are as many as four puncture widths apart, rest of fifth 

 tergite and exposed portion of sixth and seventh tergites stramineous, 

 anal process dark brownish, emarginate, the emargination forming 

 an obtuse angle, tergum with rather conspicuous pale ochreous hairs 

 that are supplemented on the sides of the second, third and fourth 




606 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. r 



tergites by ochreous apical hair bands, hair at apex of abdomen pale 

 ochreous. 



Other Locality. — San Jose, California (Hold). One female paratype 

 in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadel- 

 phia, Pennsylvania. 

 Andrena (Trachandrena) quintiliformis new species. 



Type. — No. 4,032. The Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia. 



Type Locality. — Yosemite, California, June 24, 1902 (B. Chapman). 



Related to A. (T.) quintilis Robertson. 



Female. — Length 9.5 mm.; body black covered with pale and 

 blackish hairs; head with its facial line : transfacial line :: 60 : 74, 

 axial line : temporal line :: 30 : 17, covered with pale ochreous hairs 

 excepting most of the broad part of fovea and occiput where the 

 hairs are brownish and on the labrum where the hairs are golden, 

 front elevated along inner foveal edge, coarsely punctured the 

 punctures from one to two puncture widths apart, fovea at most 

 nearly three-fourths as wide as the ocellocular line is long, separated 

 from the eye margin near the upper end by a sloping, nearly bare, 

 punctured band that is in width : ocellocular line :: 1 : 13, fovea 

 decidedly constricted near its middle where it is apparently less than 

 half as wide as the greatest width of the fovea, the latter continued 

 below the constriction as a narrowing furrow down to a point appar- 

 ently a little below the clypeal line, upper half of fovea brownish, 

 lower half pale ochreous, fovarea widest a little below the middle 

 of the fovea and at its widest point angulated and nearly as 

 wide as the upper end of the narrowest part of the fovea, fovarea 

 polished and with a few large punctures, face polished and with 

 large adjoining and nearly adjoining punctures, clypeus decidedly 

 elevated above the apical margin, convex, polished and punctured 

 much like the face except that laterally some of the punctures are 

 confluent, clypearea present on the apical two-thirds of the clypeus, 

 the latter thinly hairy, its surface not at all hidden by hairs, labrarea 

 truncate, apparently exactly three times as wide at base as long 

 down the middle and nearly half as wide at apex as at base, labrarea 

 at base nearly two-thirds as wide as the labrum, the latter with a 

 fringe of golden brown hairs, malar line : joint 3 of antennae :: 1.5 : 7, 

 the elevated portion nearly as long as the depressed portion, joint 

 3 of antenna? : 4 -f 5 :: 7 : 9, joints 4 and 5 nearly as long as 

 thick, the succeeding joints longer than thick, antennae blackish 

 throughout, mandibles typical, robust, not quite extending to 




1910.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 601 



the outer edge of the labrum, black except for part of the apical 

 half which is dark reddish, palpi slender, nearly typical; thorax 

 with a velvety covering of coarse pale ochreous hairs except on the 

 dorsulum where the posterior half inside the notauli is mostly covered 

 with coarse blackish hairs, dorsulum polished, partly indistinctly 

 reticulated, coarsely punctured, the punctures ranging from con- 

 fluent to one puncture width apart, notauli represented by an im- 

 pressed shining line, mesopleune with pale ochreous hairs, coarsely 

 sculptured somewhat like the metanotum but with larger, more 

 distinct punctures, scutel hairy and sculptured like the anterior 

 third of the dorsulum, metanotum with hairs like on the scutel, 

 but more densely hairy, dullish and with its punctures less dis- 

 tinct and closer together, tegulae blackish except for a polished, 

 brownish stramineous portion, wing base blackish, subcosta blackish, 

 costa blackish stramineous, stigma dark reddish brown with a 

 blackish tinge, rest of veins blackish stramineous but not so dark as 

 the costa, first recurrent vein received by the second submarginal 

 cell beyond the middle and nearer to the second transverse cubitus 

 than the first transverse cubitus is to the stigma on the radial vein, 

 nervulus received by the median cell, nearly interstitial and forming 

 an acute angle with the second abscissa of the median vein, legs 

 black and blackish brown, claws mostly pale brown, legs covered 

 with pale ochreous hairs except on the tibise and tarsi where it is 

 darker, rather pale brownish, scopa typical, its hairs pale ochreous 

 except at base above where they are dark brown, mid metatarsi at 

 most apparently as wide as hind metatarsi; propodeum with its 

 enclosure sharply defined especially posteriorly where its truncature 

 is bounded by a carina, finely reticulate and in addition trav- 

 ersed by at least seventeen longitudinal crooked carinas, rest of 

 upper aspect of propodeum appearing to be coarsely reticulate and 

 covered with pale ochreous hairs, pleurae of propodeum with sparse 

 shallow excavations that are finely reticulated and almost hidden 

 by the pale ochreous propodeal floccus; abdomen with its tergum 

 polished, punctured, the punctures clear cut, adjoining on the 

 elevated basal portions of the second, third and fourth tergite-. 

 usually one puncture width or a little more apart on the first tergite 

 and on the depressed portion of the second, third and fourth tergites, 

 second tergite with its elevated portion down the middle : depressed 

 portion :: 10 : 15, fifth tergite with adjoining or nearly adjoining 

 punctures and reticulate, pygidium blackish, slightly convex, nearly 

 pointed, with an elevated enclosure, tergum with inconspicuous 




608 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov., 



blackish hairs except at base and laterally where there are some pale 

 hairs, second, third and fourth tergites with a medially interrupted 

 white hair band, fimbria blackish brown. 



Other Localities.— California, one paratype with a written n on 

 the locality label, nothing more [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.]; one paratype, 

 Fallen Leaf Lake.. California, June 21, 1915 (A. K. Fisher) [U. S. 

 Biological Survey]. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 009 



November 21. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Seventy-one persons present. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of papers 

 under the following titles: 



"Some aboriginal sites on Green River, Kentucky," by Clarence 

 B. Moore (April 2). (For publication in the Journal.) 



"The zoological position of Sarcosporidia, " bv Howard Crawley 

 (April 20). 



"The flounders of the genus Hippoglossoides, " by Carl L. Hubbs 

 (May 3). 



"Cold-blooded vertebrates from Costa Rica and the Canal Zone," 

 by Henry W. Fowler (May 18). 



"Notes on fishes of the orders Haplomi and Microcvprini, " by 

 Henry W. Fowler (May 18). 



"On some varieties of Thais lapillus in the Mount Desert Region, " 

 by Harold L. Colton (June 12). 



"New genera and species of Gastropoda," by Bruce Wade (June 

 22). 



"A possible partial explanation of the visibility and brilliancy of 

 comets," by Daniel M. Barringer (July 1). 



"The nervous system of Crepidula adunca and its development," 

 by Harold Heath (September 18). 



"New or little-known crane-flies from the United States and 

 Canada, Part III," by Charles P. Alexander (October 16). 



"New species of North American bees of the genus Andrena from 

 west of the 100th meridian," by Henry L. Viereck (October 21). 



"On Moschites verrucosa (Verrill) and its allies," by S. Stillman 

 Berry (October 24). 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Alexander W. Biddle, M.D. 

 Eckley Brinton Coxe, Jr. 

 Alexander Uhle, M.D. 

 Alexander Brown. 

 Theodore N. Ely. 



The deaths of the following correspondents were also announced: 



Elias Metschnikoff. 

 Edgar A. Smith. 




610 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. ; 



R. J. L. Guppy. 

 Thomas Lauder-Brunton. 

 Edgar A. Mearns, U. S. Army. 



Dr. Henry Skinner made a communication, illustrated by lantern 

 slides, on a collecting tour in eastern Cuba. (No abstract.) 



The following were elected members: 



C. W. Weidenbacker. 

 Arthur H. Thomas. 



A paper by Henry L. Viereck on Andrena was ordered to be 

 published. See page 550. 



December 19. 

 The President, Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The deaths of Edwin A. Barber and Edward P. Borden, members, 

 were announced. 



The Publication Committee reported the reception of the following 

 papers : 



"Third synonymic study of the mollusks of the Department of 

 Alpes-Maritimes mentioned by Antoine Risso, with notes on their 

 classification," by Commandent E. Caziot. Translated by William 

 H. Dall. (Transferred to The Nautilus.) 



"Notes on Salamanders," by Henry W. Fowler and Emmett 

 Reid Dunn. 



The following annual reports were ordered to be printed: 




l'.llli.l NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 611 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The six meetings now provided for by the By-Laws were held 

 December 21, 1915, January 18, February 15, March 21, April 18 

 and November 21, 1916. Communications were made by William 

 P. Magie and Daniel M. Barringer, Witmer Stone, Edwin (J. Conk- 

 lin, Merkel H. Jacobs, and Henry Skinner. 



Twenty-three papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows: Henry W. Fowler, 2; William H. Dall, 2; Nathan Banks, 1 ; 

 J. A. G. Rehn and Morgan Hebard, 1; R. W. Shufeldt, 1; J. Hen- 

 derson and L. E. Daniels, 1; H. A. Pilsbry, 1; George W. Tann- 

 reuther, 1; T. D. A. Coekerell, 1; Walter Sonneberg, 1; Joseph C. 

 Thompson, 1; Clarence B. Moore, 1; Howard Crawley, 1; Carl L. 

 Hubbs, 1; Harold S. Colton, 1; Bruce Wade, 1; D. M. Barringer 

 and Elihu Thomson, 1; Harold Heath, 1; Charles P. Alexander, 1; 

 Henry L. Viereck, 1; S. Stillman Berry, 1. 



Sixteen of these communications have been published in the 

 Proceedings, one in the Journal, five have been returned to the 

 authors, and one awaits the action of the Publication Committee. 



Six hundred and twenty-two pages of the Proceedings with 

 thirty-two plates have been issued. We are indebted to Mr. Clarence 

 B. Moore for the third part of the sixteenth volume of the Journal, 

 consisting of eighty pages and four beautiful plates in color. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard contributed $301.79 toward the expense of 

 publishing the second number of the Proceedings for 1916. 



The American Entomological Society (Entomological Section of 

 the Academy) has published four hundred and thirty-four pages, 

 with twenty plates of the Transactions, and four hundred and 

 eighty pages and twenty-five plates of the Entomological News. 

 A new series, entitled Memoirs, has been begun, of which one 

 hundred and forty-one pages have been issued. 



The Manual of Conchology has been increased by one hundred 

 and sixty-eight pages and twenty-eight plates, completing the 

 twenty-third volume and the first part of the twenty-fourth. 



The Academy's contributions to science, therefore, during the 

 past year totals 1,925 pages and 109 plates. 



The interruption in the exchange service due to the war, reference 

 to which is made in the report of the Librarian, still continues. 




612 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Well-bound copies of the centenary volume of the Journal and 

 of the Index to Publications were expressed to Mr. Peter H. Gold- 

 smith, Director of the Pan-American Division of the American 

 Association for International Conciliation, as a contribution to a 

 library of American books to be placed in Buenos Ayres in furtherance 

 of the admirable object of the society. The binding was paid for 

 by the President of the Academy. 



Eight members have been elected. Fifteen deaths have been 

 announced. Resignations of membership have been received from 

 Charles D. Hart, Silas L. Schumo, and John' M. Reynolds. Three 

 have been dropped from the roll. 



The special appointments by the Council: the Standing Com- 

 mittees, the Councillor, the Curator of the William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections, and the Custodian of the Lea Collections, remain without 

 change. 



Under the provisions of the endowment of the Hayden Memorial 

 Geological Award, a gold medal is to be again conferred next year 

 upon a geologist or paleontologist whose work deserves the recog- 

 nition. A committee consisting of R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., Amos P. 

 Brown, Edgar T. Wherry, Charles D. Walcott, and Henry F. Osborn, 

 has been appointed by the Academy on the nomination of the Council, 

 to select a worthy recipient. Dr. Penrose has complied with a re- 

 quest to act as Chairman of the Committee. 



Revision of the Articles of Agreement with the American Ento- 

 mological Society, made December 17, 1875, and modified November 

 27, 1894, was, on the recommendation of the Council, adopted by 

 the Academy, December 21, 1915. By the revised articles the 

 Society agrees to deposit its collections in the Academy in per- 

 petuity, the Academy to take care of such collections to the best of 

 its ability. In case of dissolution of the union, the library of the 

 Society remains in its possession. None but members of the Academy 

 can be elected members of the Society, the meetings of which for 

 scientific or business purposes must be held on the Academy's 

 premises. 



By the will of the late John T. Morris, the Academy's relation to 

 the Botanical Garden, Museum, and Library provided for therein 

 is defined. The income of $25,000 is bequeathed to the Academy 

 on the death of the testator's sister. 



A successful meeting of the American Ornithologists' Union was 

 held in the library, lecture hall, and museum from November 13 to 16. 



Six courses of lectures were delivered on Mondays from January 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 613 



10 to May 1. Three were by Dr. Witmer Stone on wild bird life, 

 one by Dr. B. F. Royer on oral hygiene, four by Dr. H. A. Pilsbry 

 on shells and shell fish, three by Dr. Henry Skinner on insects, three 

 by Dr. Spencer Trotter on the wanderings of animals, and three by 

 Dr. Stone on the wild flowers of Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 



In addition, seven afternoon lectures were delivered to students 

 of the Girls' High School by Drs. Skinner, Pilsbry, Moore, and Stone 



The withdrawal of Mr. Delos Culver as a Jessup Fund Beneficiary 

 was reported. 



Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The further decrease in foreign correspondence, due to the almost 

 complete cessation of receipts from central Europe, has resulted in a 

 smaller total of communications for 1916 than for many years. 



No new correspondents were elected, but the following named 

 died: Orville A. Derby, Elias Metschnikoff, Edgar A. Smith, Jose 

 M. Rovirosa, R. J. Lechmere Guppy, Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton 

 and Edgar A. Mearns. The decease of several other correspondents, 

 as one of the unfortunate results of the European War, has been re- 

 ported, but it has been impossible to secure satisfactory verification. 



There have been no international scientific congresses and few- 

 events of scientific importance in this country in which this Academy 

 was invited to participate. Invitations were received from the 

 Kitasato Institute in Tokyo, the City Club of Philadelphia, the 

 Philadelphia Electric Company, the American Branch of the League 

 to Enforce Peace, the California Academy of Sciences, the College of 

 Engineering of the LFniversity of Illinois and the committee in charge 

 of the fiftieth anniversary of the scientific activity of Alexander 

 Karpinsky. A letter of congratulation sent to Professor Karpinsky 

 elicited an appreciative response. 



Thanks were received also from the Ohio Academy of Sciences 

 for the appointment of a delegate and the sending of a congratulatory 

 message and from the American Ornithologists' Union for courtesies 

 received during the recent meeting in the Academy's building. 



Miscellaneous correspondence was conducted as usual. 



Statistics of the correspondence transacted follow: 




614 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Communications received : 



Acknowledging the receipt of the Academy's publications 145 



Transmitting publications to the Academy 26 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 5 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc 5 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 5 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 12 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 4 



Letters from correspondents 24 



Miscellaneous letters 48 



Total received 272 



Communications forwarded: 



Acknowledging gifts to the library 1,001 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies , 151 



Acknowledging gifts to the museum 106 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 4 



Letters of sympathy and congratulation, addresses, etc 6 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 19 



Miscellaneous letters 119 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 181 



Total forwarded 1,587 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The library of the Academy during the past year has been increased 

 by 6,086 additions. Of these 578 were volumes, 5,344 were pam- 

 phlets and parts of periodicals. There were 160 maps, photographs, 

 and one sheet. 



They were received from the following sources: 



Exchanges 2,843 United States Bureau of Educa- 



Isaiah V. Williamson Fund 1,062 tion 32 



United States Department of Department of Marine and 



Agriculture 698 Fisheries, Ottawa 32 



General Appropriation for pur- Imperial Department of Agri- 

 chase of books 299 culture, British West Indies 27 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 98 Henry A. Pilsbry 27 



Authors 98 California State Commission of 



Editors 76 Agriculture 27 



Board of Agriculture, London 76 Pennsylvania Department of 



American Entomological Society Agriculture 26 



(Entomological Section of the New York Agricultural Experi- 



Academy) 73 ment Station 24 



North Carolina Geologic and Commission of Telegraph, Mat- 

 Economic Survey 52 to Grosso, Brazil 23 



Colorado Agricultural College 34 Trustees of British Museum 22 




1910.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF 1'IIILADI It. PI 1 1 \ . 



015 



Miss 11. NLWardle 22 



Library of ( longress _'() 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund I'.i 



Argentine ( rovernmenl 19 



V. S. Departmenl of the Interior 18 



William J. Fox ]."> 



Pan-American Union 14 

 Pennsylvania Departmenl of 



Health 13 

 New York State College of ' 



Forestry 13 



U. S. Department of Commerce 



and Labor 12 



Secretary of Works, Mexico 12 



California Fish and Came Com- 

 mission 1 1 



American Iron & Steel Institute 10 



Henry Skinner 10 



Department of Mines, Queens- 

 land 10 



University of Michigan 10 



National Academy of Sciences... 9 

 Museum of the American Indian 



Heye Foundation 9 



Publication Committee of the 



Academy 7 



Edward J. Nolan 7 



Lowell Observatory 7 



University Geological Survey of 



Kansas 7 



Vermont Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 7 



Tennessee State Geological Sur- 

 vey 6 



Ohio Biological Survey 6 



Stat ens Skogsforsoksanstalt, 



Stockholm 6 



Department of the Naval Ser- 

 vice, Ottawa 6 



Thornwell Museum 6 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D 6 



University of Wyoming 5 



Seismologic Station of Cartuj a 5 



Estate of Albert Lucas 5 



United States War Department.. 4 

 Direccion de Estudios Bio- 



logicos, Mexico 4 



New Mexico College of Agricul- 

 ture and Mechanic Arts 4 



East Indian Government 4 

 Commission of Conservation, 



< 'anada 4 



Wallace G. Levison 4 



Department of Agriculture, Cos- 

 ta Rica 4 



James A. G. Rehn 3 



University of Tennessee 3 

 Mississippi State Geological 



Survey 3 



Michigan Geological and Bio- 

 logical Survey 3 



Indiana University 



Louisiana State Museum 



( leological ( ommission of Fin- 

 land 



Colorado Museum of Natural 

 History 



Seismological Society of America 



Delaware County Institute of 

 Science 



Office National des Fniversites 

 et E -oles franchises 



( leological Survey of Alabama 



Commissioners on Fisheries and 



( lame, Massachusetts 



Illinois State ( leological Survey 



Maryland (leological Survey 



Department of Trade and Cus- 

 toms, Australia 



Dr. Ida A. Keller 



State Entomologist, Illinois 



Peabody Museum 



State Board of Charities, New 

 York 



Boston City Hospital 



Harvard University 



Wisconsin Geological and Nat- 

 ural History Survey 



Geological Survey of Ohio 



Department of Fisheries, Ben- 

 gal, Bihar andOrissa 



Observatory of M adrid 



United States Brewers' Associa- 

 tion 



Danish Government 



Government of Formosa 



Missouri Bureau of Geology and 

 Mines 



Warren Academy of Sciences 



George H. Clapp 



Massachusetts State Board of 

 Agriculture 



Yale University 



Miss Emily H. Thomas 



Zoological Society of Philadel- 

 phia 



West Virginia Geological Survey 



Second Pan-American Scientific 

 Congress 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Bentham Trustees, Kew Gar- 

 dens 



George L. Harrison, Jr 



New Jersey Department of ( !on- 

 servation and Development 



New South Wales State Fish- 

 eries 



Albert de Monaco 



Geological Survey of Georgia 



Tiflis Seismological Stat ion 



Philadelphia Museums 



3 

 3 



2 



_> 



_> 

 2 



2 



2 

 2 

 2 



1 




616 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Dr. W. K. Shea 1 Clarence B. Moore 1 



Cornell University Agricultural Florida State Geological Survey. 1 



Experiment Station 1 Jardim Botanico do Rio de 



Rockefeller Foundation 1 Janeiro 1 



These additions have been distributed to the several departments 

 of the library as follows: 



Journals 3,788 Medicine 23 



Agriculture 948 Mineralogy 21 



Geology 448 Bibliography 19 



Geography 153 Mammalogy 18 



Botany 127 Physical Sciences 11 



General Natural History 102 Helminthology 7 



Entomology 86 Chemistry 3 



Anthropology _ 79 Philology 3 



Ornithology 40 Herpetology 1 



Ichthyology 30 Dictionaries 1 



Conchology 29 Encyclopedias 1 



Anatomy and Physiology 26 Miscellaneous 36 



Voyages and Travels 26 



Among the more important works received are 



Herrich-Schaffer. Neue Schmetterlinge aus Europa, etc. 3 parts. 1856-61. 

 Meerburg. Plantae rariores coloribus depictae (Afbeeldingen van zeldzaame 



Gewassen). 1789. 

 Hanley. An illustrated and descriptive catalogue of recent bivalve shells. 



1842-56. An extra-illustrated copy from Hanley's own library. Presented 



by Mr. George H. Clapp. 

 Nees von .Esenbeck, Hornschuh und Sturm. Bryologia Germanica. 2 parts 



in 3 volumes. 1823-31. 

 Junghaus. Icones Plantarum rariorum. Centuria I. Folio. 1792. 

 Beddome. Icones Plantarum India? Occidentalis. Vol. I. 1868-74. 



The following journals are new to the collection: 



Addisonia. New York. 



American Entomological Society, Memoirs. 



Anthropological Institute, London. Occasional Papers. 



Arbeiten zur Entwicklungspsychologie. Leipzig. 



Board of Agriculture, London. Journal. 



California Fish and Game Commission. Teachers' Bulletin. 



Colombo Museum. Memoirs. 



Congreso de Naturalistas Espanoles. Actas y Memorias. 



Departmento de Agricoltura, Costa Rica. Publicaciones. 



Department of Marine and Fisheries, Ottawa. Annual Report. 



Eugenics Review. London. 



Geographical Review. New York. 



Geologe (Der). Leipzig. 



Jardim Botanico de Rio de Janeiro. Archivos. 



Journal of Bacteriology. New Haven. 



Journal of Ecology. London. 



Journal of Micrology. Reading, England. 



Junta de Ciencies Naturals, Barcelona. Anuari. 



Iowa Naturalist. Iowa City. 



Lorquinia. Los Angeles. 



Mines Handbook. New York. 



Massachusetts State Board of Agriculture. Economic Biology-Bulletin. 



Museum of the American Indian Heye Foundation. New York. Contributions. 




1916.] NATURAL >( ll.M ].- OF PHILADELPHIA. 617 



New Jersey Departmenl of Conservation and Development. Trenton. Animal 



Report . 

 New York Mineralogical Club. Brooklyn. Bulletin. 

 New York Slate College of Forestry. Syracuse. Bulletin. 

 Notes "ii Rhode Island Ornithology. Bristol. 

 Ohio (The) Journal of Science. Columbus. 

 Physiological Abstracts, London. 



Service i 'e ilogique de I'Indochine. Eanoi-Haiphong. Bulletin. 

 Thornwell Museum. Clinton, South Carolina. Annual Report. 

 Vermont Agricultural Experiment station. Bulletin. 



Four hundred and four volumes have been bound. 



Tb.e special catalogue of books subject to loan has been completed 

 and is now in use. Certain works not included in the list may. by 

 order of the Council, be borrowed with the consent of the Librarian. 



Under the revised By-law, 61 works in 66 volumes have been 

 loaned. Seven of these are still outstanding. 1,226 works in 1,476 

 volumes have been used in the study rooms by students of the 

 Academy. 



The requirement that these books be registered before removal 

 from the library has resulted in desirable convenience of access and 

 recovery when wanted by other readers. 



We are under obligation to Mrs. William H. Bennett for the 

 repair and regilding of the frame containing the portrait of her 

 father, George W. Carpenter, Treasurer of the Academy from 

 December, 1826, until his death, June 7, 1860. 



Six volumes and four duplicate pamphlets have been sold. 



184 volumes were given by the Academy and 29 by the President 

 to Geneva College, Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, as a help in replacing 

 the library of that institution, which has been destroyed by fire. 



With the rest of the scientific and literary world we are still suffering 

 from the effects of the English embargo on books from Germany 

 and other belligerent nations. The hoped-for relief referred to in 

 my last report, where the subject is treated of at some length, has 

 not been accorded, and notwithstanding strenuous efforts on the 

 part of American importers to secure concessions from the British 

 censors, what has been called ''the intellectual famine" continues. 

 The Foreign Trade Adviser of our own Department of State is not 

 apparently able to modify the situation, although, with the Librarian 

 of Congress, he has shown every disposition to do so' as far as possible. 

 Shipments sent by way of Rotterdam have been detained on the 

 most trivial pretexts, yet it is only under the protection of the official 

 permits that a supply of current issues and deficiencies can safely 

 be secured. Foreign publishers rarely prepare large editions of the 

 works issued by them and especially is this the case in the present 




618 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



deplorable condition of affairs, so that if transmissions be lost, the 

 deficiencies in sets can probably never be supplied. 



The British Trade Adviser has recently required all institutions 

 to make their own applications. If this rule be insisted upon it will 

 enormously increase the labor and uncertainties of importation. Our 

 own importers make application for ninety-two institutions. The 

 British official will, it is to be hoped, acknowledge the disadvantage 

 of increasing the required documents in that instance alone from 

 one to ninety-two, so that the representations of the Librarian of 

 Congress may secure a modification of this order, but in the mean- 

 time we must cultivate such patience as we can until the world is 

 providentially restored to its normal condition. 



I am glad to again acknowledge, officially and personally, the 



zeal and efficiency of my assistants, William J. Fox and Furman 



Sheppard Wilde. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The year just completed finds the Academy's collections and 

 buildings in better condition than ever before. The members of 

 the museum staff have devoted their time to the care and study of 

 the material in the several departments. Large numbers of specimens 

 have been labelled, catalogued and rearranged, while many groups 

 have been critically studied and specimens redetermined. The 

 accessions to the museum have been numerous and of great value, 

 as shown by the accompanying list of additions. 



Much has been done to render the exhibits more accessible and 

 more attractive. Through the appropriation of $10,000, made at 

 the last session of the State Legislature, it was possible to secure 

 52 plate-glass and mahogany or oak exhibition cases, while four 

 others were purchased from the E. D. Cope Fund and ten from the 

 William S. Vaux Fund. 



With these it is possible to complete the furnishing of the 

 Archaeological and Mammal floors and the first floor of the north 

 wing, and to transfer to new cases the William S. Vaux Collection 

 of minerals and a large part of the exhibition series of mollusks. 

 Part of the transfer to the new cases has already been accomplished, 

 and the work will be finished during the coming year. 



For the study collections 105 metal-covered cases, 420 glass- 

 covered boxes and 1,300 trays were secured for the accommodation 




1910.] NATURAL s< tENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 619 



of insects, plants, mollusks, birds, and mammals. The study col- 

 lections, it should be remembered, constitute the scientific basis of a 

 museum. Specimens in the exhibition cases have, for the mosl part, 

 a comparatively limited life and in course of time have to be replaced. 

 The study specimens, however, when properly housed and protected 

 from light, dust, and insect pests can he preserved indefinitely. 



It is therefore a matter for congratulation that the immense study 

 collections of the Academy containing the types and historic speci- 

 mens of a century of scientific research are being rapidly placed 

 beyond danger and their preservation assured. 



In no one year has such progress in housing these collections been 

 made as in that just closed. 



Early in the year the exhibit of the Pennsylvania Department of 

 Health, which was awarded the grand prize at the Panama-Pacific 

 Exposition, was received at the Academy and installed in the gallery 

 of the Mineralogical Hall, which was temporarily allotted to the 

 State for this purpose, the installation, lighting, and guarding of the 

 exhibit all being assumed by the State. 



The exhibit has proven very attractive and instructive and has 

 attracted large numbers of visitors. 



The attendance in the museum throughout the year has been 

 large and is constantly increasing, especially the numbers of classes 

 from public and private schools which come under the guidance of 

 their teachers. 



Local field work was carried on extensively by several members 

 of the staff, resulting in valuable additions to the collections of 

 fishes, crustaceans, reptiles, batrachians, etc. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has continued his exploration of the 

 Indian mounds of the Southern States and has provided an additional 

 case for the display of the valuable material secured during the year. 



Mr. J. A. G. Rehn was sent to Tucson, Arizona, where, through 

 the courtesy of the American Museum of Natural History, he joined 

 an entomological expedition to the adjoining desert regions. In 

 consideration of his services the Academy will receive a valuable 

 share of the material collected. 



Details of the work in the various departments and a list of the 

 accessions are appended. 



Mammals. 



An air-tight sheet-iron room was fitted up on the fourth floor, 

 close to the mammalian study collections, in which have been hung 

 41 




620 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



all of the tanned skins of large mammals which were formerly stored 

 in the basement. This ensures their safe preservation and provides 

 ready access to them. New tag labels were placed upon them by 

 Mr. Rehn and they were arranged in systematic order. 



A number of additional storage cases were made available for the 

 medium-sized mammal skins by the substitution of new storage 

 cases in the bird department and two plate-glass and mahogany 

 exhibition cases were provided from the State appropriation, com- 

 pleting the furnishing of the mammal hall. 



Twenty-four mammals have been received from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia, which have been variously prepared by the 

 taxidermist as skins or osteological specimens. 



Much use has been made of the study collection during the year 

 and specimens have been loaned to N. Hollister, H. W. Henshaw, 

 and L. A. Fuertes. 



Birds. 



The relaxing of the old unmounted skins in the study series of 

 Passeres was completed by Mr. D. E. Culver, who was a student 

 on the Jessup Fund during the first half of the year, while the re- 

 mainder of the trays and the cases have been labelled by Dr. Stone. 

 He has also transferred the skins of the larger birds to the twenty 

 new metal-covered cases provided by the State appropriation. The 

 collection of eggs has also been arranged in new cases and the old 

 wooden cabinets removed. 



A number of birds have been identified for the Zoological Society 

 during the year. 



During the summer and autumn Dr. Stone, with the assistance of 

 the taxidermist, Mr. McCadden, rearranged the greater part of the 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club Collection, incorporating a 

 great deal of new material presented by the Club and relabelling a 

 large part of the exhibit. By removing the shelves and supporting 

 the groups from the back of the case a very much more attractive 

 display has been obtained. The entire series of shore-birds were 

 remounted on natural bases. 



With Mr. Rehn's help, the Guatemala and Santa Marta collections 

 received last year have been catalogued. 



Two valuable collections were also received during the present 

 year — the L. L. Jewel collection of Panama birds, purchased by 

 subscription by members of the Academy, and an additional lot of 

 specimens from Santa Marta, Colombia, purchased from M. A. 

 Carriker. These comprise some 700 skins. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 621 



Many ornithologists have studied the collections at the Academy 

 and specimens have been loaned to J. P. Chapin, W. E. C. Todd, 

 and Albert Laessle. 



Reptiles and Batrachians. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler has during the year catalogued 350 specimens 

 and given a careful supervision to the collection, replenishing alcohol 

 when necessary. 



He has also conducted extensive field work in Pennsylvania, New 

 Jersey, Maryland, and Virginia, which resulted in securing forty 

 local collections of reptiles, batrachians and fishes. Two papers 

 w r ere published during the year on cold-blooded vertebrates in the 

 Academy collection and two others are now in preparation. 



Fishes. 



This department has also been under Mr. Fowler's care and much 

 of the work of collecting and publication just described covers the 

 fishes also. Twelve large local collections of Pennsylvania fishes, 

 presented by Mrs. E. S. and W. I. Mattern, deserve special mention, 

 as w r ell as a number of mounted game fishes, the gift of Mr. A. B. 

 Loeb. 



Mollusks. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, Special Curator, reports specimens received 

 from 56 persons and institutions. Among the more interesting 

 accessions are a series of the mollusks collected this year in Utah 

 and Idaho by Messrs. Junius Henderson and L. E. Daniels; several 

 hundred lots from Maine, taken by Mr. Bayard Long; a large series 

 of Californian shells from Mrs. Oldroyd, and collections from 

 Guatemala and Panama from Messrs. S. N. Rhoads and D. E. 

 Harrower, respectively. 



Studies on the Pupillida? for a monograph of the family have 

 occupied most of the time of the Special Curator. Considerable 

 additions to our collection of these shells have been obtained from 

 various correspondents. 



Mr. E. G. Vanatta has been occupied chiefly with the determina- 

 tion of specimens for correspondents and with labelling and arranging 

 accessions to the museum. Miss Caroline Ziegler has continued the 

 work of cataloguing the collection. 



The collection has been consulted by various visiting naturalists, 

 and specimens have been loaned for study to Bryant Walker, Paul 

 Bartsch, and S. S. Berry. 




622 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Insects. 



Thirty metal cases and 420 boxes were secured with the State 

 appropriation for the accommodation of the collection of insects,, 

 and Dr. Henry Skinner, head of this department, and Mr. E. T. 

 Cresson, Jr., have spent the greater part of the year rearranging the 

 collections and mounting recent accessions. 



In the Diptera the families Stratiomyiidse, Tabanidae (in part), and 

 Leptidse have been rearranged. Studies have been made of the 

 Ephydridae by Mr. Cresson. Thirty-two new species were described. 



In the order Coleoptera the Horn types have been numbered and 

 the families Dytiscidse, Hydrophilidse and part of the Silphidse re- 

 arranged, while many specimens have been identified and added to 

 the collection. 



The local collection has also been rearranged. 



In the Lepidoptera the American moths have been arranged in 

 the new cases as well as all of the exotic moths, except the Noctuidse 

 and Geometridse. 



In Orthoptera Mr. J. A. G. Rehn has arranged the exotic Tetti- 

 goniidse and portions of the Blattidae, Mantidse, and Acrididse in the 

 new cases. 



He has also continued his studies of the Brazilian Orthoptera in 

 the Academy's collection and material loaned by the U. S. National 

 Museum and Stanford University, while some time has been devoted 

 to the determining of South African collections submitted by the 

 Transvaal Museum, for which work the Academy receives a duplicate 

 series. 



Mr. Rehn spent the months of July and August in the field on 

 an entomological expedition to southern Arizona, undertaken jointly 

 with the American Museum of Natural History. Valuable collec- 

 tions were obtained, in which the Academy will share when they are 

 worked up. 



Mr. Morgan Hebard has, as in the past, given generously of his 

 time and material toward the development of the Orthoptera collec- 

 tions. He also generously provided a preparator during part of 

 the year, who completed the mounting and labelling of the material 

 obtained in 1915 on the Hebard-Acaclemy expedition in the West. 



Many specialists have made use of the collections during the year 

 and a loan was made to E. B. Williamson. 



Other Invertebrates. 

 Mr. Henry W. Fowler has labelled and arranged about 200 small 




1916.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 623 



jars of Crustacea as well as various lots of local Arachnida, Myri- 

 apoda, etc., received during the year. 



Dr. Witmer Stone collected a large series of Crustacea at Cape 

 May, New Jersey, from which groups were prepared and mounted 

 for exhibition. Bases were constructed representing sand beaches, 

 mud flats, etc., with accessories collected and prepared for the 

 purpose. Some groups of the larger mollusks were also prepared, 

 making eighteen in all, which form an instructive exhibition of the 

 more striking invertebrates of our seacoast. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 



Mr. William Palmer, of the U. S. National Museum, has studied 

 the collection of fossil cetaceans from the Miocene of Maryland and 

 determined many unnamed specimens. He has also borrowed 

 portions of the series for further study. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Mr. W. P. Woodring, of Johns Hopkins University, has borrowed 

 the series of unnamed fossils from Bowden, Jamaica, in the Academy's 

 collection and is engaged in studying and identifying them. 



Mr. Joseph Willcox has presented the Academy with a series of 

 specially selected specimens of Miocene and Pliocene mollusks, 

 comprising the most perfect examples obtained by him in his many 

 years' work in the Tertiary beds of the Southern States, from Virginia 

 to Florida. These make a noteworthy exhibit in the museum and a 

 fitting memorial of Mr. Willcox's palseontological researches. 



Herbarium. 



The continued illness of Mr. Stewardson Brown has left the 

 herbarium largely dependent upon the voluntary service of Messrs. 

 Bayard Long and S. S. Van Pelt, who have been in attendance a 

 large part of the year and have given personal attention to such 

 matters as have arisen in connection with the department. 



Mr. Long has cared for the local herbarium as heretofore, has 

 made critical studies of various groups and accomplished a con- 

 siderable amount of local field work. Mr. Van Pelt has devoted 

 himself mainly to the mounting of specimens for the local herbarium, 

 amounting to over 3,000 sheets. 



Miss Ada Allen has been employed in mounting plants for the 

 general herbarium and has prepared 2,000 sheets. 



Mr. Berwynd Kauffman has been employed during part of the 




624 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



year in cataloguing and distributing the mounted plants that have 

 accumulated during the period of Mr. Brown's illness and has dis- 

 posed of the greater part of them. 



Dr. Witmer Stone and Mr. Van Pelt have resorted the packages 

 of plants in the Porter collection and arranged them temporarily 

 in the 40 new metal cases provided by the State appropriation, 

 placing them in systematic order, so that they may be easily con- 

 sulted. Messrs. Long and Van Pelt have gone critically over several 

 of the orders, separating the local material and duplicates. 



A number of botanists have consulted the herbarium during the 

 year and specimens were loaned to J. M. Greenman, M. L. Fernald, 

 K. K. McKenzie, Agnes Chase, Harold St. John, and E. S. Steele. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



From the State appropriation six new oak and plate-glass table 

 cases were secured for the William S. Vaux collection of minerals 

 and ten others were purchased from the William S. Vaux Fund. 

 These have been substituted for the old cases, and Mr. Samuel G. 

 Gordon, a student on the Jessup Fund, has cleansed the entire 

 collection, after which he assisted Mr. F. J. Keeley, curator of the 

 department, in selecting a series for exhibition. These were arranged 

 according to the sixth edition of Dana's System. The relabelling 

 of the collection will be undertaken at once. 



The duplicates have been arranged on trays in closets immediately 

 under the exhibition series, while the Academy's collection of minerals 

 is arranged in the lower part of the closets, following the same sys- 

 tematic arrangement. Thus for the first time all the general 

 collections of minerals are brought together. 



The meteorites, representing about 60 falls, are arranged in glass 

 cases in the entrance hall, while the local collection of minerals has 

 been removed to the first floor of the museum just beyond, where 

 it is arranged by Mr. Gordon in some of the old Vaux cases. Numer- 

 ous small collections received from time to time have been gone over 

 critically and specimens of value picked out, while the duplicates 

 have been made up into sets for schools and other institutions. 



Mr. Gordon made a field trip through Franklin and Adams Coun- 

 ties, Pennsylvania, during the summer and secured a valuable 

 series of volcanic rocks. 



Archaeology. 



From the State appropriation two horizontal and five upright 

 exhibition cases have been provided and one mummy case. This 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 625 



has made it possible to display specimens belonging to the Spear 

 collection of Polynesian material and other specimens withheld 

 from exhibition because of lack of space. A further display of 

 California and Nevada basketry from the Gottschall collection has 

 also been possible, while the archaeological collections from Egypt 

 and Europe and ethnological material from India and the Philippines 

 have been rearranged. 



The department has as heretofore been under the care of Miss 

 H. N. Wardle, who, beside the rearrangement above described, has 

 prepared numerous labels. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore has placed on exhibition the valuable 

 objects found on his Green River expedition and has provided a 

 new horizontal exhibition case for their display. 



Witmer Stone, Chairman, 

 Samuel G. Dixon, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Henry Tucker. 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collection. 



The past year has been rendered epochal in the history of the 

 William S. Vaux collection by the installation of new cases, in which 

 the entire collection has been rearranged. On completion of re- 

 labelling, which is under way, the collection will be in creditable 

 condition. 



Accessions during the year include ten specimens of calcite and 

 geyserite from Yellowstone National Park, presented by Mrs. 

 Walcott, and eighteen specimens purchased. Most important 

 among the latter were hopeite and parahopeite from Rhodesia and 

 several meteorites. 



I again take pleasure in acknowledging the active and efficient 

 assistance of Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, on whom devolved most of 

 the actual work of transferring the collection. 



Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, Curator Wm. S. Vaux Collection. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



Biological and Microscopical Section. — The Section has held 

 six stated meetings during the year. 



The Conservator reports the presentation to the Section, by 




626 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Mrs. Edward S. Sayres, of Prof. Henry Carvill Lewis' microscope, 

 a Beck National, together with a case of miscellaneous slides. 



Communications on various subjects were made by the following 

 members: Hugo Bilgram, F. J. Keeley, T. Chalkley Palmer, Dr. 

 Thomas S. Stewart, W. H. Van Sickel, S. L. Schumo, Dr. D. W. Horn 

 and C. S. Boyer. 



The following officers were chosen for the year 1917: 



Director Dr. J. Cheston Morris. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder Charles S. Boyer. 



Treasurer Dr. Thomas S. Stewart. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — The Section has held six stated 

 meetings during the year, with an average attendance of ten. Three 

 members and an associate were elected. 



Communications on subjects of interest were made at each meeting. 

 Among those contributing were Henry Skinner, Philip P. Calvert, 

 James A. G. Rehn, Philip Laurent, Morgan Hebarcl, and J. C. Bradley. 



The following officers were elected for the year 1917: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director R. C. Williams, Jr. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Recorder E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson, 



P. P. Calvert, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr. 



E. T. Cresson, Jr., Recorder. 



Botanical Section. — At the annual meeting, held December 19, 

 1916, the following officers were elected for the ensuing year: 



Direc.or Ida A. Keller, Ph.D. 



Vice-Director Joseph Crawford. 



Recorder John W. Eckfeldt, M.D. 



Conservator and Treasurer Stewardson Brown. 



Benj. H. Smith, Director. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 627 



MlNKHALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL SECTION FOR 1916. The 



Section held four meetings, with increased average attendance. 

 Communications were made by Prof. Thomas C. Brown, on Paleozoic 

 Reef Deposits and on Petroleum and Natural (las in Butler County. 

 Pennsylvania; by Mr. F. Lynwood Garrison, on the World'- Supply 



of Minerals, and by Prof. Florence Bascom, on some of the National 

 Parks. Other subjects of geological or mineralogical interest were 

 discussed. 



There were four field excursions, with an average attendance of 20. 

 The places visited were: (1) portions of the New Red Gwynedd 

 shales and Xorristown shales, also Hudson River shales, all in Bucks 

 County; (2) certain exposures of crystalline rocks between Philadel- 

 phia and West Chester; (3) crystalline rocks and their minerals 

 near the southern edge of Delaware County; (4) crystalline rocks 

 and their minerals between Media and Newtown Square, Delaware 

 County. 



The following officers of the Section have been elected for the 

 year 1917: 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretory W. B. Davis. 



Treasurer and Conservator ..George Vaux, Jr. 



Respectfully submitted by order of the Section, 



Benj. Smith Lyman, Director. 



Ornithological Section. — The Section has been active during 

 the year in encouraging ornithological work at the Academy. 

 The Pennsylvania Audubon Society and the Delaware Valley Or- 

 nithological Club have held their meetings in the building, with the 

 result that a broader interest has been taken in the ornithological 

 department and many valuable accessions have been received. 



November 13-16 the American Ornithologists' Union held its 

 annual meeting at the Academy, bringing to our museum leading 

 ornithologists from all parts of the United States and Canada. The 

 meeting was the largest and most successful ever held by the Union 

 and drew to the Academy large numbers of visitors. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 elected for the ensuing year: 



Director Spencer Trotter. 



Vice-Director ..George Spencer Morris. 




628 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



Witmer Stone, Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and members of the 

 Committee on Accounts was held December 19, 1916, with the 

 following result : 



President Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. Conklin, Ph.D.,Sc.D., 



John Cadwalader, A.M. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Curators ; Samuel G. Dixon, M.D.,LL.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D. 



Councillors to serve three years. Edwin S. Dixon, 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. Le Conte, M.D., 

 George Spencer Morris. 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstmann. 



COUNCIL FOR 1917. 



Ex-Officio— Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., John Cadwalader, A.M., Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D., 

 J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry A. Pilsbry, 

 Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, M.D. 



To serve three years. — Edwin S. Dixon, Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 

 Robert G. LeConte, M.D., George Spencer Morris. 



To serve two years.— Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, William Pepper, M.D. 



To serve one year. — Charles B. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles 

 Morris, Spencer Trotter, M.D., William E. Hughes, M.D. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 629 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca ..Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections Frank J. Keeley. 



Custodian of Isaac Lea Collection Joseph Willcox. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Assistant in Library Furman Sheppard Wilde. 



Aid in Archaeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David M. McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Heckler, 

 James Tague, 

 Jacob Aebley, 

 Adam E. Heckler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES, 1917. 



Finance. — Effingham B. Morris, John Cadwalader, A.M., Edwin 



S. Dixon, Walter Horstmann, and the Treasurer. 

 Publications. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Wltmer Stone, A.M., 



Sc.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. 



Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 

 Library. — Henry Tucker, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Frank J. Keeley, 



Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D. 

 Instruction and Lectures. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Henry 



A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, James A. G. Rehn, George S. 



Morris. 



ELECTIONS IN 1916. 



January 18. — Walter Sonneberg, Samuel T. Bodine, David Wilbur 



Horn, William S. Huntington. 

 March 21. — A. A. Jackson, Edward Martin, M.D. 

 November 21. — C. W. Weidenbacker, Arthur H. Thomas. 




630 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 1916. 



Mammals. 



Captain Frank S. Besson, through Mr. Nathan Griffith. Mounted Arma- 

 dillo (Tatu novemcinctum), Brownsville, Texas. 



Estate of Dr. Thomas Biddle. Skin and skull of Barbary Ape {Simla 

 innuus), Tangier, Morocco. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Skull of Atlantic Walrus (Odobccnus rosmarus). 

 Horns of Hartebeest (Bubalis sp.), Gemsbok (Oryx gazella), Indian Buffalo 

 (Buffelus bubalis), Greater Koodoo (Strepsiceros strepsiceros) , and Domestic Ram 

 (Ovis aries). Mounted head of Pacific Walrus (Odobaenus obesus). 



W. J. Fox. Skull of Dolphin (Delphinus delphis), Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



William D. Griscom. Skins of five Muskrats (Ondatra zibethica) [one albino] 

 and of three Brown Rats (Mus norvegicus), Salem, New Jersey. 



Dr. Joseph Kalbfus. Skin of Least Weasel (Putorius allegheniensis) , Mercer 

 Count}', Pennsylvania. 



Keystone-Hindley Gear Company. Tibia of horse (Equus cabattus). From 

 under City Hall, Philadelphia. 



Miss Maggie Macaw. Skin of Monkey (Lasiopyga sp.) and Spotted Cat 

 (Felis sp.), Africa. 



Samuel N. Rhoads. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonicus), Haddonfield, 

 New Jersey; Muskrat (Ondatra zibethica), Haddonfield, New Jersey. 



Dr. Henry R. Wharton. Brown Rat (Mus norvegicus), Salem, New Jersey. 



A. P. Willets. Jumping Mouse (Zapus hudsonicus), Haddonfield, New 

 Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 



Mounted: Sloth Bear (Melursus ursinus). Skin and skull: Bonnet Macaque 



(Macacus pileatus), Fishing Cat (Felis viverrina), Crab-eating Dog (Canis can- 



crivorus), Spotted Skunk (Spilogale sp.), Two-spotted Paradoxure (Nandinia 



binotata), Polar Bear (Thalarctos maritimus) , Thibetan Blue Bear (Ursus pru- 



inosus), Sewellel (Aplodontia rufa), Larger Egyptian Gerbille (Gerbillus pyrami- 



dum), Hairy-rumped Agouti (Dasyprocta prymnolopha) , Agouti (Dasyprocta sp.), 



Harnessed Antelope (Tragelaphus gratus), Himalayan Tahr (Hemitragus jem- 



laicus), Northern Warthog (Phacochcerus cethiopicus) . Prepared as skin: Sewellel 



(Aplodontia rufa), young Coypu Rat (Myopotamus coypu). Prepared as skeleton: 



Meerkat (Suricata tetradactyla) . Prepared as skull: Vulpine Phalanger 



(Phalangista vulpina). 



Birds. 



George B. Benners. Nest of Yellow-throated Warbler (Dendroica dominica). 

 Miers Busch. Collection of bird skins. 



Frank M. Crawford. Eggs of Emu (Dromceus novce-hollandice) and Whooping 

 Crane (Grus americana). Collection of eggs of various species of birds. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63] 



Delaware Valley Ornithological Club. Seven nests and ten Beta ol 

 eggs tit' Pennsylvania birds. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Female Golden Pheasant (Chrysotophw pictus), skin. 



A. B. Loeb, through Mrs. Sol. Selig. Collection of mounted birds. 



Edward Norris. Head and wing of Blue Goose (Chen coerulescens), Ches- 

 apeake May. 



H. Ohmsbv Phillips. Skin of Screech Owl (Megascops asio), West Chester, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Samuel X. Rhoads. Skin of Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phwniceus), 

 Haddontield, Xew Jersey. 



YVitmkk Stone. Sets of eggs of the Black Skimmer and Common Tern, 

 Virginia. 



George II. Stuart, 3d. Skin of Loon (Gavin i miner) and Old Squaw Duck 

 (Harelda hy emails), North Carolina. 



Dr. Henry R. Wharton. Three skins of Hooded Merganser (Lophodyles 

 cucvllatus), and two skins of Red-tailed Hawk (Buteo borealis), Salem, Xew Jersey. 



A. P. Willets. Red-winged Blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus), Tuckerton Bay, 

 Xew Jersey. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Prepared as skins: Indian Gray 

 Shrike (Lanius laktora), Yellow Oriole (Icterus xanthornus), Gray Struthidea 

 [Slrulltidea cinerea), Fish-hawk (Pandion halicetus carolinensis) , European 

 Flamingo (Pha-nicopterus roseus), and Amazona viridigenalis. Prepared as 

 skin and sternum: Great-billed Black Cockatoo (Calyptorhyuchus macrorhy ti- 

 ck us). Prepared as skull: Greater Titmouse (Parus major). Twelve eggs of 

 birds laid in the Zoological Society's Gardens. 



Purchased by subscription of members. Collection of 500 bird skins from 

 Panama, made by the late L. L. Jewel. 



Purchased. One hundred and twenty-five skins from Santa Marta, Colombia ; 

 seventeen from South Georgia Island. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Three turtles, Angkor Ruins, Cambodia. 



P. P. Calvert. Small collection of reptiles and amphibians, Costa Rica. 



Morgan Hebard. Collection of reptiles and amphibians, Miami, Florida. 



Philip Laurent. Scarlet snake (Cemophora coccinea), Gulf Hammock, 

 Florida; two toads (Bufo fowleri), New Jersey. 



Bayard Long. Five vials of amphibians, Maine. 



Dr. H. A. Pilsbry. Horned Toad (Phrynosoma), New Mexico. 



Dr. Witmer Stone. One box tortoise (Terrapene Carolina), Cold Spring, 

 New Jersey. 



Dr. S. D. Swope. Skin of Green Rattlesnake (Crotalus lepidus), Animas, 

 Xew Mexico. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. White's Cyclodus (Tiliqua scin- 



coides) . 



Fishes. 



R. M. Abbott. Cling-fish (Gobiesox strumosus), Maryland; jar of fishes, 

 Maryland. 



R. M. Abbott and Henry YV. Fowler. Collection of fishes, Anne Arundel 

 County, Maryland. 




632 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Argentine Commission, Panama-Pacific Exposition. Collection of thirty- 

 dried fishes. 



P. P. Calvert. Small collection of fishes, Costa Rica. 



C. Dager. Goldfish (Carassius auratus). 



James Donaldson. Burr Fish (Chilomycteris schoepfi). 



E. R. Dunn. Jar of fishes, James River, Virginia. 



H. W. Fowler. Three jars of fishes, Cecil County, Maryland. 



H. W. Fowler, E. S. Mattern, H. E. Thompson, H. H. Burton and Dr. 

 F. Pexnell. Sixteen bottles of fresh-water fishes, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and 

 New Jersey. 



W. J. Fox. Hog Fish (Orthopristis chrysopterus) , Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



Morgan Hebard. Jar of fishes, Boca Grande, Florida. 



W. T. Innes. Several Mollienisia latipinna, Louisiana. 



A. B. Loeb, through Mrs. Sol. Selig. Collection of mounted fishes. 



D. McCadden. Lizard fish (Sy nodus foetens), Ocean City, New Jersey. 



E. S. and W. I. Mattern. Several hundred fishes, Eastern Pennsylvania; 

 ten jars of fishes, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania. 



Philadelphia Aquarium. Several groupers (Epinephelus), Key West, Florida. 

 R. C. Williams, Jr. Spotted File-fish (Alutera punctata), Corson's Inlet, 

 New Jersey. 

 Edward Wilson. Burr Fish (Chilomycteris schoepfi), Cape May, New Jersey. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Jacob Aebly. Four land shells from Westmont, New Jersey. 



Benjamin Albertson. Helix hortensis Mull, from Nantucket, Massachusetts. 



J. L. Baily, Jr. Nuttallina fiuxa Cpr. from La Jolla, California. 



F. C. Baker. Thirty trays of shells from New York and Korea. 



Dr. Fred Baker. Dentalium vallicolens Ray. from off San Diego, California. 



Dr. Paul Bartsch. Three species of shells from North Carolina, Utah, and 

 Montana. 



M. J. Becker. Five trays of fresh-water shells from California. 



S. S. Berry. Thirty trays of land and fresh-water shells from Montana and 

 California. 



E. Bethel. Oreohelix haydeni Gabb from Glenwood Springs, Colorado. 



Dr. A. P. Brown. Eight species of shells from Pennsylvania and Antigua. 



O. Bryant. Five species of land shells from Bermuda. « 



H. F. Carpenter. Four species of shells from Rhode Island and Florida. 



Charles W. Cash. Pecten magellanicus Gm. from off Nantucket, Massachu- 

 setts. 



Dr. Robert Clarke. Five species of land shells from Beaver Falls, Pennsyl- 

 vania. 



George H. Clapp. Twenty-eight trays of shells, United States, Canada, 

 and Bahamas. 



W. F. Clapp. Seven species of Hawaiian marine shells. 



CM. Cooke. Thirteen trays of Hawaiian land shells. 



E. B. Cope. Polygyra hopetonensis Shutt. from Imri, Florida. 



C. A. Copeland. Two species of marine shells. 



L. E. Daniels. Three trays of fresh-water shells from Montana. 



J. H. Ferriss. Thirteen trays of land shells. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 633 



H. W. Fowler. Forty-eight trays of shells from the eastern United States. 



L. S. Frierson. Unio tamaulipanus Conr. from Menardville, Texas. 



S. G. Gordon. Four species of land shells from Adams < lounty, Pennsylvania. 



D. E. Harrower. Twenty trays of shells from Panama and Costa Rica 

 (purchased). 



Morgan Hebard. Forty-two trays of land shells from Virginia, Florida, and 

 Texas. 



J. B. Henderson. Eighteen trays of shells from New York and West [ndi< 



Junius Henderson. Forty-two trays of land shells from Utah, Colorado, 

 and Idaho. 



Heye Collection. Bifidaria from Big Wall, Cuba. 



A. A. Hinkley. Seventeen trays of land and fresh-water shells from Arkansas, 

 Missouri, and Illinois. 



Dr. A. P. Kitchens. Helix hortensis Mull, from Perc6, Canada. 



Tom Iredale. Elasmias ovata Ant. from Sunday Island, Kermadec Islands. 



P. Laurent. Euglandina rosea Fer. from Gulf Hammock, Levy County, 

 Florida. 



Dr. S. L. Lewis. Seventy-eight trays of marine shells. 



Bayard Long. Three hundred and forty-three trays of shells from Maine 

 and New Jersey. 



H. Loomis. Nuttalina from Japan. 



A. L. Lovett. Prophysaon fasciatum Ckll. from Corvallis, Oregon. 



H. X. Lowe. Thirty-four trays of shells from California and West Africa. 



J. G. Malone. Thirty-one marine shells from Oregon and Alaska. 



H. L. Mather and' H. W. Fowler. Goniobasis virginica Gm. from Leslie and 

 Charlestown, Maryland. 



E. S. Mattern. Two fresh-water shells from Pennsylvania. 

 David McCadden. Donax fossor Say from Ocean City, New Jersey. 

 E. A. McIlhenny. Two marine shells from Alaska. 



L. H. McNeill. Polita cryptomphala CI. from Irvington, Alabama. 



Dr. H. E. Meyer. Twenty-four species of mollusca. 



Clarence B. Moore. Io spinosa Lea from a mound near Widows Creek, 

 Jackson County, Alabama. 



Miss S. Newlin. Spondylus varians Sby. 



Mrs. I. S. Oldroyd. Two hundred and seventy-eight trays of western 

 American shells. 



W. H. Over. Twenty trays of land and fresh-water shells from South Dakota. 



Miss R. M. Pierce. Two marine shells from Wildwood, New Jersey. 



H. A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. Three hundred and six trays of shells. 



Purchased. Two hundred and thirty-six trays of shells. 



C. T. Ramsden. Three species of Cuban land shells. 



W. J. Raymond. Four trays of fresh-water shells from California and Oregon. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Two land shells from South Dakota and Wyoming. 



J. A. G. Rehn and M. Hebard. Five species of fresh-water shells from 

 LakeWaccamaw, North Carolina. 



Sidney Reily. Two marine shells from Virginia. 



S. N. Rhoads. Three land shells from the West Indies. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Forty-four species of shells from Jamaica and New 

 South Wales. 




634 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



H. H. Roney. Four species of shells. 



A. D. Rusnak. Three marine shells from Galveston, Texas. 



A. F. Satterthwait. Thirty-six species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 West Lafayette, Indiana. 



Mrs. Charles Schaffer. Three marine shells. 



S. L. Schumo. Opeas micra Orb. from Moneague, Jamaica. 



Burnett Smith. Sixty-one trays of shells from New York. 



H. H. Smith. Poly gym albolabris major Binn. from near Elamville, Alabama. 



Witmer Stone, Sc.D. Five trays of shells from California, New Jersey, and 

 Wisconsin. 



D. Thaanum. Three Hawaiian land shells. 



H. W. Trudell. Two species of shells from Bermuda. 



E. G. Vanatta. Seven species of shells from New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and 

 Maryland. 



T. Van Hyning. Three species of land mollusca from Iowa and Florida. 



Bryant Walker. Five shells from Alabama, Michigan, and Illinois. 



J. B. Walter. Six species of land shells from Monroe County, Pennsylvania. 



J. Walter and B. Long. Twelve species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Delanco, New Jersey. 



Robert Walton. Opeas mauritianum Pfr. from a greenhouse in Philadelphia, 

 Pennsylvania. 



Miss H. N. Wardle. Seven species of land shells from Spruce Cabin Falls, 

 Monroe County, Pennsylvania. 



W. Webb. Elasmias wakefieldios Cox from New South Wales. 



H. E. Wheeler. Nineteen species of fresh-water shells from Arkadelphia, 

 Arkansas. 



J. Willcox. Polygyra albolabris Say from Wilmington, North Carolina. 



F. M. Woodruff. Three species of Epiphragmophora from Oregon, etc. 



Miss Lilian Zech. Epiphragmophora zechoe Pils. from San Gabriel Mountains, 



California. 



Insects. 



Anastasio Alfaro. One hundred and thirty-one Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



American Museum of Natural History. Stilpnochlora laurifolia, Jamaica. 



F. W. Armstrong. Eight Lepidoptera, Colombia. 



Nathan Banks. One Myrmosa banksi (paratype), four Mutilla scrupea, 

 two Mutilla geryon, United States. 



Ignacio Bolivar. One Gesonia punctata, Java. 



Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Three Blattidse, Arizona, Texas. 



H. G. Bryant. Eleven Lepidoptera, Brazil. 



P. P. Calvert. Eighteen Aphids, Chestnut Hill; one Lepidopteron, Scotland. 



E. R. Casey. Twenty-five Hemiptera, Pennsylvania; fourteen Orthoptera, 

 Pennsylvania. 



D. M. Castle. One Cicada, Florida; one Megathymus yucco?, Florida. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Twelve Hymenoptera, United States. 



J. W. Cockle. Seven Lepidoptera, British Columbia. 



J. W. Coxey. Seven Lepidoptera, Western States; six, Japan. 



Erich Daecke. One Atlanticus davisi, Pennsylvania. 



W. T. Davis. Three Lepidoptera, New Jersey. 



Henry Fox. Eleven Orthoptera, Virginia. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 635 



(!. M. Greene. Sixty-one Coleoptera, United States; seven, New Jersey; 

 four, District of Columbia; two Dipt era, Pennsylvania. 



F. Haimbach. One hundred and nineteen Lepidoptera, United States. 



D. E. Harrower. One Lepidopteron, Costa Rica. 



J. R. Haskin. Fourteen Lepidoptera, California. 



MoiiiiAN Hebard. Eight Stenopelmatinae, western United States; one 

 thousand three hundred moths, Hot Springs, Virginia; thirty-eight Lepidoptera, 

 Georgia and Florida; two Lyccena lygdamas, Hot Springs, Virginia; seventeen 

 Stenopelmatus, western United States; thirty-one Blattidae, Lower California 

 and western United States; four Blattidae, United States; three hundred and 

 sixty-one Blattidae, North America, West Indies, Central and South America; 

 one hundred and nineteen insects, Southern States. 



F. M. Jones. Six Lepidoptera, Pennsylvania. 



University op Kansas. One Blattid, Arizona. 



C. H. Lankester. Ten Orthoptera, Costa Rica. 



Philip Laurent. Three Epizeuxis laurenti, North Carolina; ten Orthoptera, 

 Florida. 



R. A. Leussler. Four Satyrodes canthus fumosus, Nebraska; six Lepidoptera, 

 Nebraska. 



Carlos Lizer. Twenty-seven Orthoptera, Argentina. 



W. M. Manx. Two Myrmecoblatta rehni (paratypes), Hidalgo, Mexico. 



J. W. McGowan. Two Coleoptera, Costa Rica. 



L. W. Mengel. Perisamia inconspicua (type), South America; Catagramma 

 horstii (type), South America. 



H. Morrison. One Hymenopteron, Indiana. 



H. M. Paishley. Two Gerris argenticollis (cotypes), Massachusetts. 



Pennsylvania State Department of Zoology. Five North American 

 Blattidae. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Two Coleoptera, Hawaii. 



A. F. Porter. Thirty Lepidoptera, West Indies. 



C. T. Ramsden. Two Isognathus rimosa woodi (types), Cuba; eight Lepidop- 

 tera, Cuba; Catopsilia avellaneda, Cuba. 



J. A. G. Rehn. Ten North American Blattidae; four Lepidoptera, Texas. 



W. D. Robinson. One Coleopteron, Pennsylvania. 



Henry Skinner. Eleven Lepidoptera, California; one, Peru. 



Stanford University. Two hundred and thirty-one Orthoptera (thirteen 

 types), Brazil. v 



Witmer Stone. One Coleopteron, Wisconsin. 



University of Pennsylvania. Eleven Lepidoptera and one Coleopteron, 

 Florida; tw r o Mallophaga, Africa. 



W. C. Thompson. Thirteen Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



United States National Museum. Two Blattidae, Texas and San Domingo. 



E. G. Vanatta. Ten insects, United States. 



Mrs. B. L. Weathersbee. One specimen of Dynastes tityus, South Carolina. 



H. B. Weiss. Eight Blattidae, New Jersey. 



R. C. Williams, Jr. Twenty Lepidoptera, Alaska; eighty-five Lepidoptera, 

 Guatemala. 



E. Woolman. Six Coleoptera, Pennsylvania. 



42 




636 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Dec, 



Invertebrates. 

 (Other than Insects or Mollusks.) 



R. M. Abbott. Collection of crabs, Maryland. 



R. M. Abbott and Henry W. Fowler. Collection of crustaceans, myriopods, 

 and arachnids, Maryland. 



Benjamin Albertson. Lepas hillii Leach from Muskeget Island, Massa- 

 chusetts. 



F. C. Baker. Two anemones and a crab from Korea. 



M. J. Becker. Bryozoa from Monterey Beach, California. 



P. P. Calvert. Five crabs, Costa Rica. 



C. A. Copeland. One gorgonian and eleven sponges. 



Henry W. Fowler. Collection of crustaceans and arachnids, Maryland. 



Morgan Hebard. Collection of Crustacea, Florida. 



V. T. Innes. One crustacean from San Diego, California. 



Agnes F. Kenyon. One crustacean, Australia. 



Dr. S. L. Lewis. Eleven corals and echinoderms. 



Bayard Long. Two Helicopsyche from Maine. Two vials of crustaceans 

 from Maine. 



J. G. Malone. Eight starfishes, etc., from Alaska and Washington. 



E. A. McIlhenny. One shrimp from Admiralty Bay. 



W. E. Meehan. Chelonibia testudinaria L. from Fortesque, New Jersey. 



Mrs. I. S. Oldroyd. Seven trays of brachiopods from California. 



H. A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. Thirty-one specimens of corals, crabs, etc. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Three invertebrates from Massachusetts and New 

 South Wales. 



C. Henry Roney. Two invertebrates from the Pacific Ocean. 



Witmer Stone, Ph.D. Eighteen groups of crustaceans and mollusks, Cape 

 May, New Jersey; Balanus eburneus Gld. from Cobbs Island, Virginia. 



Emily H. Thomas. Eleven corals and echinoderms. 



H. W. Trudell. One invertebrate from Bermuda. 



United States National Museum. Five barnacles, California and Cuba. 



H. L. Viereck. Planes minutus L. from Cape May, New Jersey. 



C. M. Wheatley. Three crustaceans, California. 

 Wheatley Collection (deposited). Two trays of crustaceans. 

 Homer Wheeler. Balanus hesperius Icevidomus Pils. from Puget Sound. 

 A. P. Willets. Mud crab (Eurypaopeus depressus), New Jersey. 



Invertebrate Fossils. 



Miss Ida H. Boyer. One tray of Pyrula from Fullerton, California. 

 M. J. Becker. Mamma congesta Conr. from Monterey, California. 

 Mrs. M. K. Langsdorf. One hundred and sixty-five trays of Devonian 

 fossils, New York. 



Bayard Long. Six trays of Cretaceous fossils from New Jersey. 

 Miss Ethel A. Merkel. Ammonites and two other fossils. 



D. E. Harrower. Fourteen trays of fossils from the Canal Zone (purchased). 

 Joseph Willcox. Two hundred and seven Pliocene and Miocene fossils. 



Fossil Plants. 



Miss Esther A. Merkel. Coal plant. 



Misses Newlins. Specimens of coal slate with fern impressions. 




1916.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 637 



Minerals. 

 Miers Busch. Collection of minerals. 

 Foote Mineral Company. Sixteen easts of meteorites. 

 MlSSES Xkwi.in. Collection of minerals. 

 Miss Emily H. Thomas. Collection of minerals. 

 Miss Grace G. Town. Stalagmite. 

 \\M. S. \"\i x Collection. Eighteen specimens (purchased). 



Plants. 



(i. \V. Bassett. Three local plants. 

 Mr. Brendle. Salvia vertisillata. 



0. H. Brown. Ninety-eight specimens of plants, Cape May, New Jersey. 

 Walter Deane. One hundred and thirty-eight specimens chiefly from 

 New Hampshire. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon. Viburnum opulus, Berks County, Pennsylvania. 



Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt. Evanthis hyemalis, Painter's Arboretum. 



William Findlay. Salix purpurea, near Philadelphia. 



Wm. J. Fox. Achillea millefolium, Sea Isle City, New Jersey. 



Gray Herbarium. Sabatia campanulata and Elatine triandra, New England. 



E. B. Harger. Five hundred and sixty plants chiefly from Connecticut. 

 Clarence Knowlton. Three hundred and seventy plants, Maine and 



Massachusetts. 



Henry Hollinshed. One hundred and forty-nine plants, Delair, New Jersey. 



Frank J. Keely. Hybrid Oak, Chester County, Pennsylvania. 



Bayard Long. Nineteen local plants. 



Bayard Long and F. W. Pennell. Sixty-three New Jersey plants. 



Bayard Long and Harold St. John. Thirty-eight plants, New Jersey and 

 Maryland. 



W. H. Leibelsperger. Three hundred and ninety-six specimens of plants, 

 Berks County, Pennsylvania. 



Missouri Botanic Garden. Forty-six sheets of miscellaneous plants. 



J. H. Mumbauer. Pyrola chlorantha. 



K. K. McKenzie. Carex straminea, Cape May, New Jersey. 



New York Botanic Garden. Agalinus acuta, Long Island. 



J. P. Otis. Eighteen plants, Eastern Shore of Maryland. 



H. W. Pretz. Five hundred and seventy-one plants, Northampton and 

 Lehigh Counties, Pennsylvania. 



F. W. Pennell. Two local plants. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Collection of plants from New Mexico. 



Witmer Stone. Habenaria integra, Cape May County, New Jersey. 



W. A. Stowell. Nine specimens of oaks, Clifford, New Jersey. 



United States National Museum. Polygonum dumetorum, Washington, 

 District of Columbia. 



E. G. Vanatta. Five plants from the neighborhood of Philadelphia. 



Prof. W. Kline. Cynosurus cristatum, Ursinus College Campus, Penna. 



Netherlands Commissioners, Panama-Pacific Exposition. Collection of 

 sandalwoods, seeds and nuts. 



Otto Behr. Seven sections of Pennsylvania forest trees. 



C. H. Jennings. Ten sections of Maryland forest trees. 




638 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC. r 



Microscopes, etc. 



Mrs. Edward S. Sayres. Microscope and slides formerly belonging to 

 Prof. Henry Carvill Lewis. 



Archaeology, etc. 



C. F. Derby. Model of native boat, Ceara, Brazil. 



George G. Heye. Three hundred and thirty-five specimens of celts, pottery 

 fragments, etc., Trinidad and West Indies. 



Clarence B. Moore. Important additions to the Clarence B. Moore Col- 

 lection, from burial mounds along the lower Mississippi. 



Misses Newlin. Indian arrows. 



Edwin H. Stulb. Head of Maori chief, made in Kauri gum. 



Mrs. William Albert Sullivan. Elephant carved in plumago, Ceylon. 



Purchased. Several articles of pottery. 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



639 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED AND 



REFERRED^TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1916. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abralia astrolineata 47, 58 



Abraliopsis astrolineata 45 



hoylei 58 



sp 46,47,58 



Abudefduf doelivifrons 410 



mauritii 405, 410 



Acara cseruleopunctata 406, 410 



Acmsea fragilis 482 



Acridium clavuliger 251 



coloratum 194 



Acrosoma gracilis 78 



rugosa 78 



Acrvdium arenosum angustum, 106, 



133, 134 



a. arenosum 106, 133, 134, 147 



blatchleyi 133 



dasynotum 138 



gibbosus 134 



kraussi 138 



obscurum 133, 134 



ornatum 106, 135 



paradoxa 138 



virunganum 138 



Adinia multifasciata 426 



Admestina tibialis 83 



wheeleri 83 



Agriolimax carapestris 327 



Agrceca ornata 70 



repens 70 



Albula vulpes 397 



Alfaro cultralus 389 



Alphestes multiguttatus 409 



Amalopsis 539 



Amaurobius bennetti 71 



silvestris 71 



Amblycorvpha floridana carinata, 108, 



• 255 



floridana floridana 108, 255 



oblongifolia 108, 255 



rotundifolia parvipennis....l08, 256 



r. rotundifolia 108, 256 



uhleri 108,256 



Amblyopsis spelseus 439 



Amblytropidia occidentalis 106, 160 



Anieira festiva 400 



ruthveni 



undulata quadrilineata 



ameiva praesignis 



Amphitretus pelagicus 4 



Anableps anableps 



dowei 



microlepis 



Anaxipha 300 



exigua 300,302-304 



pulicaria 110, 300, 301, 303 



vittata 110,304 



Anchovia gilberti 



Andrena alamonis 



austrocalifornica 



azygos 



caliginosa 



Candida tramoserica.. 



complicate 



cristata 



francisca 



friesei 



inclinata 



jennei 



littlefieldi 



lummiorum 



marioides 



mendosa 



monogonoparia 



nortoni 



umbilifascia 



obscuripostica 



olivacea 



pediculihirta 



perchalybia 



pulverea 



quintiliformis 



sancta 



scutellinitens 



semifulva 



strictigastra 



sola 



subchalybea 



submoesta 



.41 Mi 



406 

 400 

 408 



7. 4s 

 439 

 439 

 439 



-302 



,306 

 305 



,306 

 401 

 599 

 58" 

 550 

 552 

 553 

 554 

 556 

 595 

 55S 

 559 

 561 

 563 

 564 

 601 

 588 

 566 

 602 

 597 

 56S 

 590 

 59S 

 591 

 569 

 606 

 571 

 573 

 575 

 579 

 577 

 593 

 594 




640 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Andrena subnigripes 581 



tseniata 583 



yumorum 585 



Anisolabis annulipes 105, 111 



maritima 105, 112 



Anisomorpha buprestoides, 106, 126, 



127 

 ferruginea 106, 126, 127 



Anisotremus interruptus 410 



tseniatus 410 



Anolis capito 400 



humilis 400 



insignis 400 



lionotus 408 



lunifrons 400 



trochilus 406,408 



Anomalofusus 461, 482 



Antocha saxicola 496 



Anurogryllus angustulus 291 



antillarum 291 



caribeus 291 



guadeloupensis 291 



muticus 109, 290, 292 



Anyphaena incerta 70 



saltabunda 70 



Aplocheilus cameronensis 426 



macrostigma 426 



panchax 426 



senegalensis 426 



sexfasciatus 426 



spilauchen 426 



Aporosa tibialis Jfil 



virescens J$3 



Apotettix minutus 135, 136, 1U 



Aptenopedes aptera .108, 253 



rufovittata 252 



sphenarioides clara 240, 252, 253 



s. sphenarioides .108, 240, 252, 253 



Archosargus unimaculatus 402 



Arethsea phalangium 108, 253 



Argiope transversa 78 



trifasciata 78 



Argyroepeira hortorum 78 



Arphia granulata 106, 175 



sulphurea 106, 176 



xanthoptera 106, 174 



Argiope riparia 78 



Argonauta argo 47, 48 



grandif ormis 48 



nodosa 47, 49 



pacifica 48 



sp 46,47,49 



Astia vittata 83 



Astyanax aeneus 406 



se. costaricensis 389 



mexicanus 407 



Atarba cinctieornis 499, 500 



picticornis 496, 500 



varicornis 499, 500 



Atlanticus calcaratus 109, 268 



ameri canus 1 09, 268 



Atlanticus davisi 109, 268 



dorsalis 109, 268, 268 



gibbosus 109,268 



monticola 109,268 



pachymerus 109, 267, 268 



testaceus 109, 267 



Atlantolimax 376 



Aulonia aurantia 82 



Bactromantis virga 121, 122 



Bairdiella ronchus 410 



Balanus balanoides.... 440-442, 445, 452 



Balistes vetula 411 



Basiliscus basiliscus 407 



Bathyphantes alpina 76 



angulata 76, 77 



argenteomaculata 76 



calcaratus 77 



complicata 76 



decorata 76 



inornata 76 



intricata 77 



minuta 76 



nebulosa 76 



pallida 76 



sabulosa 76 



subalpina 76 



tristis 77 



umbratilis 76 



unimaculata 76 



zebra 76 



Batrachidea carinata 129 



Batrachoides pacifici 412 



Belocephalus davisi 108, 259, 260 



rehni 259 



sabalis 259-261 



sleighti 259-261 



subapterus 108, 258, 260 



Belonesox belizanus 436 



Binghamiella antipodes insularis.... 363 



Bittacomorpha 545 



clavipes 545 



jonesi 545 



occidentalis 545 



sackenii 546 



Bittacomorphella 545 



Blatta orientalis 105, 119 



Blattella germanica 105, 118 



Brachygenys chrysargyreus 402 



Brvcon striat ulus 406 



Bufo marinus 406, 407, 414 



typhonius 406, 407, 414 



valliceps 394,414 



Caloptenus floridianus 251 



minor 241 



Camptonotus carolinensis 109, 268 



Campylacantha olivacea 107, 207 



Caranx caballus 409 



crysos 398,401 



hippos 401,409 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



041 



< laranx latua 39X 



Cariblattalutealutea 105, L18 



( laseola herbicola ~- 



Castianeira cingulata 69 



descripta 69 



longipalpis 69 



( ientropomus undecimalis 402 



umonensis 409 



( leratinella annulipes 72 



atriceps 71 



emertoni 71, 72 



formosa 72 



moesta 72 



placida 72 



similis 71 



Ceratinopsis alternatus 74 



auriculatus 72 



frontatus 72 



interpres 72 



nigriceps 72 



< leratinoptera diaphana 105, IIS 



( leuthophilus blatehleyi 269 



gracilipes 109,270-272 



grandis 270, 271 



heros 270, 271 



lapidieola 109,272-274 



Latens 109,273.274 



latibuli 109,270 



neglectus 109,274-276 



pallidipes 272, 273 



peninsularis 274 



sallei 109,274 



secretus 270 



spinosus 109, 274, 275 



tenebrarum 273 



terrestris 275,276 



uhleri 109,269,275 



varicator 270 



virgatipes 270,270 



Chaetodipterus zonatus 411 



Chsetodon humeralis 411 



Characodon variatus 432 



< liionea 530 



Chlcealtis conspersa 106, 174 



Chloroscombrus chrysurus 398, 402 



Chorisoneura plocea 120 



texensis 106, 120 



Chorthippus curtipennis 106 



Chortophaga australior, 106, 177, 178, 



[SO 



cubensis 177 



viridifasciata, 106, 172, 176, 177, 



179, 249 



Chriopeops 425 



Chroraacris colorata 194 



Cichlasoma alfari 393 



maculicauda 399, 406 



spilurus 393 



Cicurina brevis 70 



complicata 70 



creber 70 



( 'icurina placida 70 



Cirroteuthis meangensia 4d 



Citharichthys arenaceus 405 



Clinocephalus dedans . lllti, 1 72, 24'.» 



pulcher 172, 172, 173 



Clubiona abbottii 69 



americana 69 



canadensis 69 



crassipalpis 69 



latifrons 69 



Lenta 69 



inimita 69 



obesa 69 



ornata 69 



pygmaBa 69 



riparia 69 



rubra 69 



Coccidium schubergi 33, '■'< 1 



Ccclotes altilis 70 



calcaratus 70 



fidelis 70 



gnavus 70 



hybridus 70 



lineatus 70 



longitarsus 70 



medicinalis 70 



urbanus 70 



Conocephalus aigialis 109, 266 



allardi 108,265 



brevipennis lox, 2(i."> 



fasciatus fasciatus 108, 265 



fusco-striatus 262 



mexicanus 262 



nemoralis 108, 265 



nigropleuroides 109, 266 



saltans 109,266 



spartinse 109, 266 



stictomerus 109, 265 



strictus 109, 265 



Conodon nobilis 404 



Cornicularia communis 72, 74 



directa 73.74 



formosa ' 2 



pallida 72 



placida 72 



Corythophanes cristatus 406 



Crepidula adunca 479-485 



nivea 479 



Crypt eria 530 



Crypt ocercus punctulatus 106, 121 



Cryptoptilum antillarum 109. 28 1 



squamosum 109. 286 



trigonipalpum 109, -' s 1 



C>Tiosoion jamaicensis 40 I 



Cyrtophyllus elongatus 



intermedins 



perspicillatus 256, 257 



Cvrtoxipha 300,301 



Columbiana 110, 300, 306 



gundlachi 300,301,306,307 



Cyprinodon bovinus 429, 432 




642 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Cyprinodon b. rubrofluviatilis 430 



calif orniensis 432 



elegans 432 



eximius 429 



gibbosus 429 



macularius 432 



mydrus 432 



variegatus 429 



v. riverendi 429 



Delphinula 470 



Delorrhipis monoceros 74 



Dendrobates tinctorum 396, 400, 414 



Dendryphantes capitatus 82 



elegans 82 



exiguus 82 



flavipedes 82 



fiavus 82 



insignis 82 



militaris 83 



octavus 82, 83 



ornatus 82 



Desmoteuthis 48, 64 



pellucida 64 



tenera 64 



Diapherornera femorata 106, 124 



Dichromorpha viridis 106, 170 



Dicranomyia badia 490 



cinerea 514 



Dicranoptycha germana 496 



nigripes 497 



sobrina 497 



winnemana 497, 500 



Dictyna cruciata 71 



decorata 71 



dubia 71 



foliacea 71 



foxii 71 



frondea 71 



maxima 71 



minuta 71 



volupis 71 



Diodon hystrix 411 



Diplectrum radiale 409 



Diplocephalus crenatum 74 



Diplostyla alboventris 76 



pallida 75 



Dissosteira Carolina 106, 1 84 



Dolomedes scriptus 82 



sexpunctatus 82 



tenebrosus 82 



Dormitator maculatus 405 



Dorn aculeatum 105, 113 



Drassus humilis 69 



neglectus 69 



saccatus 69 



Drillia distans 459, 460 



Drilluta 458 



communis 458, 459 



major 460 



Elaps fulvius 408 



Eledone verrucosa 48, 49 



Elephantomya westwoodi 497 



Eleutherodactylus bocourti 396 



humeralis 394 



nubilus 406 



polyptychus 399 



rhodopsis 408, 414 



Ellipes minuta 109, 284 



Elliptera alexanderi 518 



Empedomorpha 507 



empedoide's 508 



Enyalioides heterolepis 406 



Encoptolophus sordidus 106, 179 



Enoploteuthidse 51 



Enoploteuthis hoylei 58 



Eotettix 212,213 



hebardi 217 



pusillus 107,208 



signatus 107, 208, 209 



Epeira cavatica 78 



cinerea 78 



foliata 78 



gibberosa 78 



gigas 78 



ithaca 78 



labyrinthea 78 



marmorea 78 



ocellata 78 



parvula 78 



patagiata 78 



placida 78 



prompta 78 



sericata 78 



solopetaria 78 



stellata 78 



strix 78 



Epiblemum scenicum 83 



Epiplatys sexfasciatus 426 



Erigone longipalpis 75 



percisa 73, 74 



persimilis 75 



Erioptera costalis 503 



(Erioptera) laticeps 501 



(Empeda) nyctops 503 



(Mesocyphona) tantilla 502 



Eris nervosus 83 



octavus 83 



Eritettix simplex 106, 159 



Esox americanus 415 



cypho 415 



lucius 415 



masquinongy 415 



porosus 415 



reticulatus 415 



vermiculatus 415 



Eublepharis dovii 400 



Eucinostomus californiensis 410 



harengulus 399,404 



Eucleoteuthis 48, 60 



luminosa 60, 61 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



643 



Eucleoteuthia sp 16, I- , 60 



Euconulus t'ulvus 338 



Eupomacentrua fuscus 105 



Eurycol is floridana 105, 1 L9 



Euryglossa depressa Bparsa 363 



Euryglossina flaviventris 362 



bypochroma 362 



perpusilla nana 3(53 



Exechophysia plumalis 71 



Falcicula 301,302 



hebardi 110,302,304,305 



Fontinus 1-1 



Fundulinae 416 



Fundulus 416,417,425 



antillarum 418,420,421 



aureus ( 25 



balboae 423 



bermudse l-'l 



catenatus -422 



ehrysotus 423 



cubensis 421 



diaphanus 421 



d. menona 421 



dovii 426 



floripinnis 423 



fonticola 421 



goodei 425 



grandis 417 



heteroclitus 417, 418, 420 



h. badius 417 



h. macrdlepidotus 417 



hispanieus 421 



Incise 423 



majalis 416 



mudfish 417 



nisorius 417 



notatus 425 



nottii 425 



parvipennis 417 



pulvereus 423 



puni'talus 417 



rhizophorse 421 



sciadicus 123 



seminolis 421,422 



similis 416 



stellifer 422 



zebrinus 422 



Fusus (Anomalofusus) substriatus, 461, 



462 



Galasaccus 416 



Gambusiaaffinis 432, 437, 438 



cana 435 



cascajalensis l ; i"> 



dariensis 435 



dovii 435 



gracilis 482, 43Z 



holbrooki 432,433 



latipunctata 435 



mcnieli 433 



Gambusia nicaraguensis 435 



punctata 133 



Garmanina paradoxa 412 



( rayenna celer 70 



( reranomyia canadensis . 186- l^ s 



certhia 492 



cinereinota 490, I'M 



costaricensis 494 



distincta iss, is'.) 



diversa 490 



domingensis 490 



enderleini 493 



guatemalensis 187 



ibis..... 493 



insignia 494 



intermedia 489 



knabiana 4s7 



lachrymalis 492 



plumbeipleura 494, 496 



r ostr at a -1 '• ' : > 



rufescens 491 



subinsignis 495 



tibialis:... 491 



vanduzeei 488 



vireacens 493 



Gerres peruvianua 4K) 



olisthostomus 399 



rhombeius 401 



Girardinichthys innominatus 427 



Girardinua metallicus 43S 



pleurospilus 437 



Glaridichthya uninotatus 438 



Gnaphosa brumalia 69 



conspersa 69 



humilis 69 



Gobiesox microspilus 412 



papillifer 414 



Gonatista grisea 106, 122 



Gonatium rubens 72, 73 



Gongylidium trilobatus 75 



Gonomyia " ,l|s 



asqualis 513, 526 



alexanderi 511, 513, 514 



blanda 512,518 



califomica 512, 519 



cinerea 511, 514 



eognatella 512, 522 



filicauda 512, 523 



flavibasis 512,521 



florens 512,521 



galactoptera 512, 523 



helophila 513,514 



inermis 517 



manca 51 1, 511 



mathesoni 511, 518 



mexicana 513, 527 



noveboracensis 512. 523 



pleuralia 511, 516 



puer 511, 517 



sacandaga 511, 515 



slosaonse 511, "'I s 




644 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Gonomyia subcinerea 513, 524 



sulphurella 519 



unicolor 513, 527 



virgata 513, 526 



Goodia atripinnis 432 



Grammonota ornata 72 



venusta 72 



Gryllodes clarazianus 291 



gryllodes 311 



sigillatus 295 



Giyllotalpa americana 278 



borealis 277,278 



brevipennis 278 



Columbia 278 



hexadactyla 109, 277 



longipennis 278 



Grvllus arenaceus 294 



assimilis 109, 293, 294 



domesticus 109, 295 



firmus 294 



luct uosus 294 



neglectus..... 293,294 



pennsylvanicus 294 



rubens • 294 



scudderianus 293,294 



Gymnoscirtetes pusillus 107, 207 



Habrocestum csecatum 83 



latens 83 



peregrinum 83 



splendens 83 



Hadencecus puteanus 109, 269 



Hsemulon flavolineatum 402 



parra 402 



plumieri 402 



Hahnia agilis 70 



bimaculata 70 



Halictus brazieri 367 



confusellus 374, 375 



demissus 371, 374 



dolichocerus 370,375 



epiensis 369 



forticornis 372, 375 



hsematopus 375 



imitans 372,375 



lanariellus 373, 375 



macrops 373, 374 



mundulus 366,374 



pachycephalia 369, 375 



pulvitectus 375 



seductus 372 



semipolitus expulsus 372, 375 



spenceri 368,375 



subinclinans 374 



supralucens 371, 375 



t annaensis 368 



urbanus 366,374 



Hapithus agitator agitator, 110, 308, 



309 



a. quadratus 110, 309 



brevipennis 110, 310 



Haplochilus dovii 425 



floripinnis J+23 



macrostigma \26 



melanops 432, 433 



Hasarius hoyi 83 



Helicocranchia fisheri 64 



Helix idahoensis peripherics 330 



Helophora insignis 76 



Hepatus bahianus 405 



cseruleus 405 



crestonis 411 



hepatus 405 



Hesperotettix brevipennis brevi- 

 pennis 107,210,211 



b. pratensis 107, 210 



floridensis 107,209 



speciosus 209 



Heterandria affinis 432, 433 



formosa 436 



ocoidentalis 436 



patruelis 433 



pleurospilus 437 



Hippiscus citrinus 182, 182 



compactus 181, 182 



immaculatus 182 



rugosus 106, 181, 182 



suturalis 182, 182 



texanus 180, 181 



tuberculatus 183 



variegatus 181, 182 



Hippocampoides 466, 467 



serratus 466, 467 



Holacanthus tricolor 405 



Holocentrus adscensionis 401 



siccifer 401 



suborbitalis 409 



Homorocoryphus hoplomachus 263 



malivolans 108, 263 



Hydrargira similis 416, 416 



Hydrargyra zebra 422 



Hydrotribulus 464 



nodosus 464, 465 



Hyla bocourti 394 



eximia 394 



moquardi 414 



punctanola 399 



Hylodes bocourti 396 



Hyporhamphus unifasciatus 401 



Hypsoblennius striatus 412 



Icius albovittatus 82 



elegans 83 



formosus 82 



fuligineus 83 



harti 83 



mitratus 82 



mcestus 83 



palmarum 82 



Iguana tuberculata 407 



Iridio bivittatus 405 



Ischnoptera bolliana 105, 118 




1016.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



645 



[schnoptera borealis 105, 118 



couloniana 105, 1 16 



deropeltifonnis 105, 114 



divisa 105, 115, 117 



insolita L05, 1 L8 



johnsoni 105, 115 



nigricollis 105, 1 14 



pensylvanica insequalis 115, 116 

 p. pensylvanica 105, 115, 116 



uhleriana fulvescens L05, 1 17 



ii. uhleriana 105, 117 



Isopisthus harroweri 402 



parvipinnis 404 



Labia minor 105, 112 



Labidura bidens 105, 112 



Lampadiot eu t hidae 48,51 



Lampadoteuthis 52, 57 



megaleia 46-48,52,57 



Lamprichthyinae 416 



Lamprichthys 416 



Larimus breviceps 399, 404 



Lebias fasciatus 432 



Lebistes reticularis 438 



Leptodactylus caliginosus 407 



Leptodeira polysticta 408 



Lept orhaphis infans 437 



Leptysma marginicollis 107, 195 



Libellula americana 205 



americanus 205 



Limia cubensis 438 



vittata 438 



Limnobia intermedia 489 



rostrata IfiS 



Limnobiorhynchus canadensis 486 



Limnophila edwardi 533 



irrorata 531 



s t repens 532 



sylvia 534 



Linyphia clathrata 75 



communis 7.5 



conferta 75 



maculata 75 



phrygiana var. annulipes 75 



variabilis 75 



Liotia 470 



Littorina littorea 440, 441, 442 



palliata 441,442 



rudis 441, 442 



Locusta camellifolia 257 



Loligobanksii 50 



bartramii 59 



oualaniensis 60 



Lophocarenum arvensis 74 



castaneum 73 



crenatoideum 74 



crenatum 74 



erigonoides 73, 74 



exiguum 73 



florens 73 



formosum 73. 74 



Lophocarenum miniature 7:; 



montiferum 73 



parvum 73 



spiniferum :.; 



tristis 73 



unimaculatum 73 



venustum 73 



Lophomma cristata 73 



Lucania goodei 125 



parva 126 



venusta 126 



Lutianus apodus 402 



Lycosa aspersa 81 



avara 81 



avida 80 



communis sij 



exitiosa 81 



frondicola 80 



helluo 80 



humilis 81 



nidicola 80 



nigroventris 80 



oblonga 81 



polita 81 



pratensis 80 



rabida si 



relucens 81 



rufiventris 81 



scutulata 81 



similis 80 



vulpina 81 



Lycoteuthidae 51 



Lycoteuthis 57 



diadema 57 



Lythrulon flaviguttatum 410 



Macneillia obscura 160 



Manomera brachypyga 125 



orthostylus 125 



t enuescens 106. 125 



Maposoporator 405. 411 



Marpissa binus 82 



undata 83 



Marptusa familiaris 83 



rupicola s 3 



Mataxa 455 



elegans 455, 456 



Megalocranchia maxima ... 64 



pardus 46,47,48,61. 64 



Melanoplus amplectens, 231, 235, 235, 



236 



atlanis L07, 23< 



attenuatus, 107, 212-214. 216-218, 



23 1 

 australis, 107, 213, 214, 216. 217. 



251 1 



blatchleyi 285, 235,236 



borealis 231 



carnegiei K'7. '-_".< 



celatus _ 228 



clypeatus 107, 244 




646 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Melanoplus cockerelli 231 



confusus 107, 240, 241 



deceptus 107,211,212 



decoratus 107, 219, 220 



deleter 241,244 



decorus 107, 213-218, 250 



devius 107,219,220 



divergens 228 



fasciatus 231, 236 



femoratus 107, 246 



femur-rubrum femur-rubrum, 107, 

 238-240, 244 



f. propinquus 107, 239 



franciscanus 231 



furcatus 107,244 



gracilis 211 



hebardi 107, 212-214, 217 



hnpiger 107,240 



impudicus 107, 237 



inconspicuus 231 



inops 221, 222 



islandicus 228, 229 



iuvencus 212, 231 



luridus keeleri 107, 241, 242 



1. luridus 107,238, 241-243 



mancus 228 



minor 240 



minis 107, 221, 224, 227, 228 



morsei 219, 231 



mutatus 241 



nigrescens 107, 231-234 



nubilus 107,213,214,217 



obovatipennis 219, 231 



puer 212,221,222,224,225 



punctulatus arboreus, 108, 246, 



247, 248 



p. punctulatus 108, 246, 247 



querneus 107,231-234 



rotundipennis 107,221-229 



saltator 231 



scapularis 107, 221, 223, 224, 226 



scudderi scudderi 107, 228-23 1 



s. texensis 230, 231 



similis 107,211 



stegocercus, 107, 221, 223, 224, 



227, 228 



strumosus 107, 221, 224, 227, 228 



sylvaticus 211 



sylvestris 107, 222, 228, 229 



tepidus 219,231 



tribuloides 219 



tribulus 107,219,220 



viridipes 211, 212, 231 



walshii 107, 231, 233-236 



Mermiria alacris 106, 156 



bivittata 106,156 



intertexta 106, 156 



vigilans 156, 157 



Micaria formicoides 68 



longipes 68 



Microcentrum retinerve 108, 256 



Microcentrum rhombifolium....l08, 256 



Microgobius miraflorensis 412 



Microneta complicata 77 



distincta 77 



flaveola 77 



frontata £7 



gigantea 77 



latens '' 



longitubus 76 



luteola '1 



minutissima 77 



olivacea 76 



palustris 77 



quinquedentata 77 



Microphysa ingersolli convexior 335 



Mimetus epeiroides 71 



interfector ' 1 



Miogryllus verticalis 109, 295 



Misumena foliata 79 



georgiana 



79 



placida 80 



rosea. 



79 



Misumessus asperatus 79, 80 



Mogosoplistus slossoni 285 



Mollienisia latipinna 437,438 



sphenops 438 



sphenops 393,406,438 



s. tropica 392 



Molophilus fultonensis 505 



nova-csesariensis 506, 507 



pubipennis 505 



ursinus 507 



Moschites challengeri 47, 48, 49 



Mugil curema 401, 409 



Mursena clepsydra 409 



Myrmecophila pergandei 109, 284 



Mytilus edulis 440, 441, 442, 445, 452 



Naronaeximia J&*> 



Nautilus macromphalus 47, 65 



pompilius 47, 65 



spirula ^2 



Nematolampas 57 



regalis 45,46,47,50,57 



Nemobius ambitiosus 109, 288 



bruneri 109,289 



carolinus carolinus 109, 290 



confusus 109,290 



cubensis cubensis 109, 289 



fasciatus fasciatus 109, 286, 288 



f. socius 109,287 



eriseus funeralis 109, 288 



maculatus 109,287,288 



palustris aurantius 109 



p. palustris 109,290 



Neoconocephalus caudellianus..l08, 262 



exilis-canoris 108, 262 



melanorhinus 262 



mexicanus 261 



retusus 108,262 



robustus crepitans 108, 262 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



047 



Neoconoccpliulus triops....l08, 261, 262 

 velox 108,262 



Neotettixbolivari 135, 136, 141 



bolteri, 106, 135-137, 139, 143-145 



coarctatus 135, 136, 137, 144 



femoratus 106, 138, 141 



liancocki 135, 137, 144 



bolivarilougipennis....l35, 136, 141 



proavus 106, 13.x, 139 



rotundifrons 135, 136, 141 



variabilis 135-137, 141 



Neoxabea bipunctata 110, 298 



Nomotettix cristatus arcuatus, 106, 

 128, 129, 131, 133 



c. atavus ISO, 131 



c. borealis 128, L29 



c. compressus, 106, 12S, 129, 130, 



132 

 c. cristatus. .106, 128, 129, 131, 132 



c. denticulatus 131, 132 



c. floridanus 128, 129, 132 



Norops auratus 408 



Notropis bifrenatus 425 



Ocyale undata 82 



Odontofusus 463 



Odontoxiphidium apterum 109, 266 



CEcanthus angustipennis....l09, 295, 296 



exclamationis 109, 295 



latipennis 110,298 



nigricornis 109, 297, 298 



niveus 109, 295, 296 



pini 110,298 



quadripunctatus 109, 296, 298 



Ogilbia cayorum 405 



Oligonyx bollianus 123 



scudderi 106, 122, 123 



uhleri 122, 123 



Onchidiopsis 376 



corys 377 



glacialis 378 



gronlandica 376, 378 



(Atlantolimax) hannai 3"6 



pacifica 378 



Onychoteuthis banksii 46, 47, 50 



Opisthonema oglinum 397, 401 



Orchelimum agile 108, 263 



bradleyi 108,264 



concinnum 108, 264 



fidicinum 108,264 



glaberrimum 108, 263 



laticauda 108,264 



militare 108,264 



minor 108,264 



superbum 108,264 



vulgare 108,263 



Oreohclix albofasciata 329 



avalonensis 341 , 354 



barbata 341-344,354 



binneyi 329 



bruncri 340, 354 



Oreohclix carinifera 321, 322, 35 \ 



cbiricahuana 341, 344, 354 



clappi 341,344,354 



concentrata..341, 343, 31 1, 352, 354 



c. huachucana 352 



cooperi, 321, 326, 341-343, 348- 

 35(i. 352,353-357 



c. stantoni 340 



elrodi 343,354 



t'crrissi 341,355 



gouldi 329 



hachctana 341, 355 



haydeni, 322, 324, 343, 345, 346, 



352, 354, 355 



h. betheli 313,347,348 



h. corrugata 337, 343, 317. 348 



h. gabbiana 323, 335. 347, 349 



h. hybrida 335, 347, 349 



h. mixta 348 



hcmphilli......321, 322, 344, 354, 355 



h. eurekensis 321 



hendersoni....343, 344, 346, 353, 355 



idahoensis 344, 353, 355 



metcalfei 341, 343, 344, 352, 354 



oquirrhensis 322, 324 



peripherica, 327, 329, 330, 330, 



335, 343, 345, 349, 350, 353, 355 



p. albofasciata 330 



p. binneyi 330, 335 



p. castaneus 330 



p. multicostata 330, 335 



p. newcombi 330, 343 



pilsbryi 341, 343, 352, 354 



pvgmsea 353 



rugosa 334, 344, 350, 353, 355 



socorroensis 341, 354 



strigosa, 341, 343, 345, 350. 352, 



353, 355, 356 



s. buttoni 327, 346 



s. carnea 345 



s. depressa, 322, 325-327, 335, 



338, 342, 344-347, 349, 350, 352 



s. d. carnea 325 



s. d. tooelensis 323 



s. fragilis 336, 345, 346 



s. imitaris 340 



s. jugalis. 343,345 



s. subcarinata 343 



s. tooelensis 345, 346 



tenuistriata 338,354 



utahensis... 322,324 



wasat chensis 330 



yavapai 341, 343, 344, 354 



y. extremitatis 351 



Orestias agassizii 427 



albus 429 



bairdii 427 



cuvieri 427 



cypho 427 



frontosus 



neveni 420 




648 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Orestias ortonii 427 



pentlandii 427 



Ornopsis -463 



elevata 463,464 



glenni 463,464 



Orocharis gryllodes 311, 311, 312 



saltator 110,311,312 



saulcyi 311 



Orphulella halophila 163, 165, 166 



olivacea, 106, 163, 164, 165, 167, 



169, 172 



pelidna, 106, 161, 163, 164, 166, 



166, 167, 170 



pratorum 163 



speciosa 106, 170 



zapoteca 170 



Orthopristis scapularis 402 



Oxybelis acuminatus 397 



Oxyptila americana 79 



conspurcata 79 



georgiana 79 



Oxyzygonectes 425 



Pachygnatha brevis 79 



mccooki 79 



xanthostoma 79 



Pachyprosopis saturnina 362 



Paludestrina longinqua 322, 334 



Paludina vivipara ; 479 



Paracolletes halictiformis 365 



Paramecium 85, 86 



Paratettix cucullatus 106, 146 



rugosus 106, 146 



texanus 146 



Paratylotropidia beutenmuelleri, 107, 



211 



Pardalophora apiculata 188 



haldemanii 181 



phcenicoptera, 106, 180, 181, 183, 



249 



Pardosa albopatella 81 



annulata 81 



brunnea 81 



canadensis 81 



diffusa 81 



distincta 81 



emertoni 81 



flavipes 81 



glacialis 81 



gracilis 81 



lapidicina 81 



nigropalpis 81 



minima 81 



modica 81 



moesta 81 



montana 81 



obsoleta 81 



pallida 81 



venusta 81 



xerampelina 81 



Paroxya atlantica 215 



Paroxya a. atlantica 108, 248 



a. paroxyoides 249, 250 



clavuliger 108, 251 



floridana 251 



hoosieri 251 



scudderi 248,249 



Patula castaneus 330 



multicostata 830 



peripherica 330 



strigosa albofasciata 330 



s. binneyi 330 



s. buttonii 327 



s. carnea 325 



s. castaneus 330 



s. fragilis 336 



s. gabbiana 323 



s. gouldi 330 



s. hybrida 335 



s. multicostata 330 



s. newcombi 330 



s. rugosa 33J+ 



Paxilla obesa 106, 147, 148 



Pedanostethus pumilis 77 



riparius 77 



Pelamis bicolor 414 



Pellenes borealis 83 



decorus 83 



falcata 83 



Periplaneta americana 105, 119 



australasise 105, 119 



brunnea... . 106, 120 



Pezotettix occidentalis 235 



Phalloceros caudimaculatus 437 



Phallostethinse 416 



Phallostethus 416 



Phidippus albomaculatus 82 



audax 82 



castrensis 82 



electus 82 



mccooki 82 



mystaceus 82 



putnami 82 



rauterbergi 82 



tripunctatus 82 



Philseus militaris 82 



princeps 82 



Philodena roseola 85 



Philodromus aureolus 80 



bidentatus 80 



brevis 80 



exilis.. 80 



expositus 80 



gracilis 80 



laticeps 80 



maculatus 80 



minusculus 80 



minutus 80 



ornatus 80 



pernix 80 



pictus 80 



placidus 80 




1916.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



G49 



Philodromua praelustris SO 



rufus 80 



signifer 80 



unicolor 80 



vulgaris 80 



Philypnus dormitor 405 



Pholcomina hirsuta 71 



Phos 462 



Phrurolithus alarius 70 



borealis 70 



palustris 70 



Phryniscus varius 397 



Phylloscyrtus pulchellus 110, 307 



Physa cooperi 334 



distinguenda 334 



Piabucina panamensis 4U7 



Pirata agilis 81 



aspirans 81 



exigua 82 



humicolus 81 



minuta 81, 82 



montana 81 



montanoides 81 



Pisidium huachucanum 334, 339 



Planorbis trivolvis 334 



Platypoecilus couchianus 438 



niaculatus 438 



tropicus 393 



Plectromyia 541 



Pcecilia olivacea 422 



tenuis 393 



vivipara 438 



Pceciliinae 416 



Poeciliopsis isthmensis 390 



lutzi 436,437 



maculifer 390 



occidentalis 436 



pleurospilus 437 



presidionis 409 



retropinna 407 



Pcccilochroa bilineat a 69 



Pollachius virens 441 



Polydactylus virginicus 399, 404 



Polymera geniculata 535 



georgiae 535 



obscura 535 



Polypus kermadecensis 47, 49 



oliveri 47, 49 



sp 46,47,49 



Pomacanthus arcuatus 405 



zonipectus 411 



Pomadasis ramosus 398, 402 



Priapichthys annectens 390 



Procatopinse 416 



Procatopus llii 



Prolabia unidentata 105, 113 



Prosopis aralis 364 



extensa . 364 



Bcintilliformis 365 



trimerops 365 



vittatifrons 365 



Prosthesima atra 68 



blanda r,s 



depressa 68 



ecclesiast Lea 68 



frigida 68 



immaculata 68 



minima c,\i 



rufula r,s 



Pseudoscarua perrico. . 410 



Pseudoxiphophorus bimanilatus i:;r, 



Psinidia fenestralis 107, iss 



Pterochionea 529, 530 



bradleyi 329, 530 



Pterophylla camellifolia camelli- 



folia 108,256,257 



c. intcrmedea 108, 257, 258 



elongatus 258 



Papilla bigranata 329 



bland! 322,336 



hebes 329 



muscorum 329 



syngenes 329 



Purpura 444 



Pycnoscelus surinamensis 106, 1 20 



Pyramidula cronkhitei anthonvi, 322, 



327 

 Pyrgocorypha uncinata 10S, 261 



Radinotatum brevipenne brevi- 



penne 106, 153 



Radio-centrum 341, 343, 355 



Rana cseruleopunctata 396 



Rapa 465 



Rhabdomastix 528 



caudata 528, 529 



monticola , 528 



Rhamdia montaguensis 407 



Rhamphidia albitarsis 497 



flavipes 497,498 



longirostris 499 



mainensis 497, 498 



Rhaphidolabina 540 



flaveola 541,542 



Rhaphidolabis 540 



cayuga 541, 542, 543 



modesta 541, 542 



neomexicana 541, 542 



polymeroides 541, 542 



rubescens 541, 542, 544 



tenuipes 541. 542,543 



Rhinobatos percellens 401 



Rhomboplites aurorubens ln_> 



Rivulus micropus . 426 



Romalea marci 193 



microptera 107, 193 



Rupiscartes atlanticus 105 



Rypticus arenatus 4n2 



nigripinnis 410 



Saitispulex 83 



Sarcocystis colii 22, 379 



muris 2-43, 379, 381-384 




650 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Sarcocystis tenella 381, 382 



Sardinella humeralis 397, 401 



Sargana 468 



Seapteriscus abbreviates.. .109, 279, 282 



acletus.. 109,279 



agassizii 278 



didactylus 278,279 



mexicanus 279 



vicinus 109,278-281 



Schistocerca alutacea 107, 197-203 



americana 204 



damnifica calidior 107, 206 



d. damnifica 107, 205, 206 



obscura 107, 197-199, 202 



rubiginosa 197-203 



serialis 107, 204 



Schizobasis 468 



depressa 468, 469 



Schizogyna gracilis 81 



Scirtetica marmorata marmorata. . . 188 



m. picta 107, 188 



Scomberomorus cavalla 398, 401 



Scorpsena mystes 411 



Scudderia cuneata 108, 254 



curvicauda curvicauda 108, 254 



c. laticauda 108, 254 



f urcata f urcata 108, 254 



texensis 108,254 



Seserinus paru 402 



Singa maculata 78 



truncata 78 



Sphserium pilsbryanum 335 



Spharagemon bolli 107, 185 



collare 187 



c. scudderi 187 



c. wyomingianum 107, 186, 187 



crepitans 107, 184 



cristatum 187 



saxatile planum 192 



Spheroides annulatus 411 



testudineus 405 



Sphyrsena barracuda 401 



guachancho 401 



Spiropalpus spiralis 72 



Spirula spirula 47, 49 



Stagmomant is Carolina 106, 121 



Stauroteuthis meangensis 46, 48 



Steatoda guttata 71 



marmorata 71 



triangulosa 71 



Stemonyphantes bucculentus 75 



Stenacris vitreipennis 107, 194 



St henot euthis bartramii 46, 59 



Stilpnochlora marginella 108, 254 



Strongylocentrotus 444 



Succinea avara 327, 336 



Symmet ropleura modest a 108, 255 



Symplectoteuthis luminosa 48, 60 



oualaniensis 60, 60 



Synogeles picata 83 



Syrbula admirabilis 106, 156 



Tachisurus steindachneri 408 



Taonius 64 



abyssicola 64 



Tarpon atlanticus 401 



Tautogolabrus adspersus 441 



Tetragnatha pallida 78 



Tectaplica 457 



simplica 457 



Tetragnatha caudata 78 



pallescens 79 



straminea 78 



vermiformis 78 



Tetrix polymorpha 149, 150 



Tettigidea armata, 106, 148, 149, 151, 



153 



a. depressa 151, 152 



brevipenne peninsulare 155 



davisi 152, 153 



lateralis lateralis.. 106, 148-151, 153 



1. parvipennis 150 



1. polymorpha 151 



medialis 149, 151 



parvipennis 149 



p. pennata 150 



prorsa 106, 147 



p. elongata 147, 148 



spicata 106, 148 



Tettix femoratus.. 135-137, 145, 146 



Teucholabis carolinensis 497 



complexa 498 



lucida '.... 498 



Thais imbricata 446, 451, 452, 453 



lapillus 440-454 



Thargalia agilis 69 



bivittata 69 



crocata 69 



fallax '. 69 



perplexa 69 



Thesprotia graminis 106, 124 



Thysanophora ingersolli 327, 335 



Tipula cayuga 545 



Tmeticus bidentatum 75 



brunneus 76, 77 



debilis 75 



distinctus 75 



flaveolus 74 



gnavus 75 



humilis 74 



luxuosus 74 



maculatus 75 



minutus 75 



mcestus 75 



obscurus 74 



pallidus 74 



palustris 75 



plumosus 74 



probatus 75 



rusticus 74 



tridentatus 72 



unicorn 74 



trilobatus 74 




L916.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



651 



Toxorrbina magna 198 



muliebris ,,|s 



Trachinotua argenteue 398 



glaucus 398 



Tricyphona 536 



auripennis 531 



calcar 536 



byperborea "' :1 ~ 



inconstans 536, 537 



katahdin ... 537 



paludicola •} :? ^. 539 



vernalis 53' . 539 



Tridactylus apicalis 109, -*■} 



fissipes 283 



bistrio 284 



histrionicus 284 



illinoiensis 283 



incertua 283 



terminalis 283 



tibialis 28! I 



Trimerotropis acta 192 



citrina 107,190-192 



cyaneipennis 193 



maritima 107, 190, 19 -J 



saxatilis 017. 192 



Trimicra empedoides 508, 508 



Trochosa rubicunda 81 



Truxalis brevicomis 106, 155 



Tryxalis brevicornis 100. 1 55 



Turbo cornut vis 468 



Tylosurus scapularis 409 



Umbra lima 415 



pygmsea 416 



Umbrina coroides 404 



Upeneus grandisquamis 410 



Urceolabrum •169 



tuberculatum 469, 470 



\ ; 1 1 1 < > 1 1 i .• i cyclophorella 



gracilicosta : > : > s 



Velutina 378 



Verrilliteutbia 18,64 



Vitrea indentata umbilicata 322 



Vitrina alaskana 322, 327, 337, 338 



Voluta canalifera 159 



lativittata 159 



Vomer setapinnis 398, 101, 109 



Vostox brunneipennis 105, 112 



Xenichthys xanti 110 



Xenisma 122 



stellifera 122,^0 



Xiphophorua helleri 438 



Xya mixta 283 



Xyst Lcus brunneus 79 



crudelis 79 



dist inctus 79 



feroculus 79 



formosus 79 



gulosus 79 



lentus 79 



limbatus 79 



luctana 79 



maculatus 79 



nervosus 79 



quadrilineal us 79 



stomachosus 79 



transversus 79 



triguttatus 79 



Zygonectes 421, 422, 425 



brachypterus 432, 433 



Zelotes blanda 69 



rufula 68 



Zonitoides arborea 322 



43 




652 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1916. 



Additions to the Museum, 630 



Alexander, Charles P. New or little- 

 known crane-flies from the United 

 States and C a n a d a : Tipulidse, 

 P t y c h o p t e r i d se , Diptera. Part 3 

 (Plates XXV-XXXI), 486, 609. 



Attachees, 629. 



Banks, Nathan. Revision of Cayuga 

 Lake spiders (Plates X, XI), 1, 68. 



Barber, Edwin A., announcement of 

 death of. 



Barringer, D. M. A possible partial 

 explanation of the visibility and brill- 

 iancy of comets, with addendum by 

 Elih'u Thomson, 472, 609. See Ma- 

 gie, W. P., 



Berry, S. Stillman. Cephalopoda of 

 the Kermadec Islands (Plates VI, 

 VII, VIII, IX), 45. 



Biddle, Alexander W., M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 609. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 625. 



Borden, Edward P., announcement of 

 death of, 610. 



Botanical Section, report of, 626. 



Boyer, Charles S. Report of Biological 

 and Microscopical Section, 625. 



Brown, Alexander, announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Caziot, E. Third synonymic study 

 of the mollusks of the Department 

 of Alpes-Maritimes mentioned by 

 Antoine Risso, with notes on their 

 classification. Translated by Wil- 

 liam H. Dall, 610. 



Chauncey, Charles, announcement of 

 death of, 85. 



Cockerell, T. D. A. Some bees from 

 Australia, Tasmania, and New 

 Hebrides, 67, 360. 



Colton, Harold S. On some varieties 

 of Thais lapillus in the Mount 

 Desert Region. A study of indi- 

 vidual ecology, 440, 609. 



Conklin, Edwin G. A trip to New 

 Zealand and Australia (no abstract), 

 67. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 613. 



Council for 1917, 628. 



Coxe, Eckley B., announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Crawley, Howard. The sexual evolu- 

 tion of Sarcocystis muris (Plates 

 I, II, III, IV), 2. The zoological 

 position of the Sarcosporidia, 379, 

 609. 



Cresson, Ezra T., Jr. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 626. 



Curators, report of, 618. 



Dall. William H. A new species of 

 Onchidiopsis from Bering Sea, 67, 

 370. See Caziot, E. 



Daniels, L. E. See Henderson, Junius. 



Dixon, Samuel G. Report of Curators, 

 625. 



Downs, Norton, announcement of 

 death of, 85. 



Dunn, E. M. See Fowler, H. W. 



Elections in 1916, 629. 



Elliot, Daniel Giraud, announcement 

 of death of, 1. 



Ely, Theodore N., announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Entomological Section, report of, 626. 



Fowler, Henry W. Cold-blooded ver- 

 tebrates from Costa Rica and the 

 Canal Zone, 389, 609. Notes on 

 fishes of the order Haplomi and 

 Microcyprini, 415, 609. 



Fowler, Henry W., and Emmett Reid 

 Dunn. Notes on salamanders, 610. 



Guppy, R. J. L., announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Heath, Harold. The nervous system 

 of Crepidula adunca and its develop- 

 ment, 479, 609. 



Hebard, Morgan. See Rehn, J. A. G. 



Henderson, Junius, and L. E. Daniels. 

 Hunting Mollusca in Utah and 

 Idaho (Plates XV, XVI, XVII, 

 XVIII), 44, 315. 



Hubbs, Carl L. The flounders of the 

 genus Hippoglossoides, 609. 



Index to Genera, etc., 639. 




1916.] 



\ \ l URAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



653 



Jacobs, Merkel II. Temperature and 

 the act ivil iea of animals, 85. 



Keeley, F. .1. Reporl of ( lurator of 

 William S. Vaux Collections, 625. 



Lauder-Brunton, Thomas, announce- 

 menl of death of, 609. 



Librarian, reporl of, til I. 



Lyman, Benj. Smith. Reporl of Min- 

 eralogical and Geological Section, 

 627. 



Magie, William I'., ami Daniel Moreau 

 Barringer. Meteor ( 'rater of Arizona 

 (no abstracl ), 1. 



Mearns, Edgar A.. U. S. A., announce- 

 ment of death of, 009. 



Metschnikoff, Elias, announcemenl of 



death of, 609. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



reporl of, 627. 

 Moore, Clarence B. Some aboriginal 



sites on Green River, Kentucky 



ifot the Jotjrn \i.>. 609. 



Moore, J.Percy. Report of < lorrespond- 

 ing Secretary, G13. 



Nolan, Edward .1. Reportof Recording 

 Secretary, 611. Report of Libra- 

 rian, 614. 



( Itiicers, Councillors, and Finance 

 i !ommil tee, 028. 



Ornithological Section, reporl of, 627. 



Physick, Emlen, announcement of 

 death of, So. 



Pilsbry, Henry A. Notes on the 

 anatomy of Oreohelix, with catalogue 

 of species (Plates XIX, XX, XXI, 

 XXII), 11, 340. Report of 

 Curator-, 625. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 611. 



Rehn, James A. G., and Morgan 

 Bebard. Studies in the Dermaptera 

 and Orthoptera of the Coastal 

 Plains and Piedmont Region of the 

 southeastern United State- (Plates 

 XII, XIII, XIV i. 1, 87. 



Reportof Biological and Microscopical 



Section. 625. 

 Reporl of Botanical Section, 626. 

 Report of Corresponding 



613. 



Secretary, 



Report of ( lurator of William S. Vaux 



( Soiled ions, 625. 

 Reporl of ( 'orator-, 618 

 Reporl of Entomological Section, 626. 

 Reporl of Librarian, 61 I. 

 Reporl of Mineralogical and Geological 



Sect loll, 627. 



Reporl of Ornithological Section, (127. 

 Reporl of t he Recording Secretary, 01 1 . 

 Reports of Sect ion-, 625. 

 Rhoads, Joseph R., announcemenl of 



death of, 11. 



Sect ions, reports of, 625. 

 Shufeldt, P. W. Fossil birds' eggs, 1. 

 Skinner, Henry. A collecting tour in 

 eastern ( 'ulia 'no abstracl \, 610. 



Smith, Benjamin II. Reporl of 

 Botanical Section, 626. 



Smith, Edgar A., announcement of 

 death of, 609. 



Sohneberg, Walter. Evidence of a 

 saturation point in evolution. 07. 



Standing Committees, 1 « • ] 7" . 629 



Stone, YVitmer. Western bird- and 

 their haunt- (no abstracl I. 1 1. Re- 

 port of Curators, 625. Report of 

 ( >rnithological Section, 628. 



Tannreuther, George W. The germ 

 layers of Bdellodrilus, 07. 



Thomson. Elihu. See Barringer, D. M. 



Thomson, John, announcement of 

 death of, 07. 



Thomson, Joseph C. Contributions to 

 the anatomy of Python reticulatus 

 (Schneider), 85. 



Tucker, Henry. Report of Curators, 

 625. 



I'hle. Alexander, M.D., announcement 

 of death of, 609. 



Viereck, Henry L. New species of 

 North American bees of the genus 

 Andrena from west of the 100th 

 meridian contained in the collections 

 of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia! 5.30, 609. 



Wade. Bruce. Xew genera and species 

 of Gastropoda from the Upper 

 taceous (Plates XXIII, XXIV), 

 155, 009. 



William S. Vaux Collections, report on, 

 02.-, 







\ 





