'■i^i]i'i\iii\;mitt<^^'"^''^^^^^^^^-- 







(PROCEEDINGS 



OF 



The Academy of Niatural Sciences 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA 



Volume LXX 



1918 



philadelphia : 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences 



LOGAN SQUARE 

 1919 




The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



AprH 10, 1919. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1918 were 

 mailed as follows: 



Pages 1-64 April 11, 1918 



65-96 May 28,1918 



97-112 May 30,1918 



113-138 July 19,1918 



139-186 September 6, 1918 



187-234 October 2, 1918 



235-280 '. December 4, 1918 



281-328 February 21, 1919 



329-360 April 10, 1919 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PUBLICATION committee: 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



The President, J OKN Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., ex-officio. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 




CONTENTS. 



For Announcements, Reports, etc., see General Index. 



PAGE 



BoDiNE, Joseph Hall. Experimental results in Ischnura and 



Enallagma 103 



Cadwalader, John. Legal attainments of Doctor Dixon 116 



Calvert, Philip P. Eruptions of the Costa Rican Volcano 



Irazuin 1917-18 73 



Carroll, Mitchel, The hind-gut, abdominal tracheae and 

 rectal respiration in the larva of Mecistogaster modes- 

 tus from Costa Rica 86 



CoNKLiN, Edwin Grant. In memoriam, Samuel Gibson 



Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D 115 



Cullen, Anna M. Rectal tracheation of Argia putrida 75 



CuLLEN, Anna M., Janet P. Jamieson, Mitchel Carroll, 

 and Joseph Hall Bodine. The rectal tracheation and 

 rectal respiration of the larvae of Odonata zygoptera 75 



Fowler, Henry W. New and little-known fishes from the 



Philippine Islands 2 



A new Characin from Paraguay. 141 



In memory of Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D 115 



Jamieson, Janet P. The tracheal supply of the rectum of 

 the larvae of Argia talamanca from Juan Vinas, Costa 

 Rica 81 



Jordan, David Starr. Notes on Gistel's Genera of Fishes 335 



New Genera of Fishes 341 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. On the generic position of Sonorella 



wolcottiana Bartsch 139 



Pilsbry, Henry A. and James H. Ferriss. Mollusca of the 

 southwestern States — IX. The Santa Catalina, Rin- 

 con, Tortillita and Galiuro Mountains — X. The 

 mountains of the Gila headwaters. Plates III-VII 282 



Rehn, James A. G. On a collection of Orthoptera from the 



State of Pard, Brazil (Plates I, II) 144 



RoYER, B. Franklin. Dr. Dixon's work in sanitary science 127 



Stone, WiTMER. Dr. Dixon's life and services to the Academy 120 

 Birds of the Panama Canal Zone, with special reference to 

 a collection made by Mr. Lindsey L. Jewel 239 



Vanatta, E. G. Two new shells from Hayti 237 



Wade, Bruce. New generic names for Upper Cretaceous 



Gastropoda...... 114 



/ (. 3 "^ !>' 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1918. 



January^l5. 

 Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., in the Chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The PubUcation Committee reported the presentation of papers 

 for pubHcation as follows: 



"The Meteor Crater of Arizona," by Beeby Thompson. 



"Contributions a I'histoire naturelle du f er du Canyon Diablo," 

 par Stanilas Meunier. 



"New and little-known fishes from the Philippine Islands," by 

 Henry W. Fowler. 



Dr. Harley Stamp made a communication entitled: An Anthro- 

 pological Amateur in Alaska, Siberia, and the Arctic, illustrated by 

 colored lantern slides. (No abstract). 



The deaths of Caleb Cresson, December 30, 1917, and Joseph P. 

 Remington, January 1, 1918, members, were announced. 



Andrew J. Carty and Annabella E. Richards, were elected members. 

 The following was ordered to be printed: 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



NEW AND LITTLE-KNOWN FISHES FROM THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. 



BY HENRY W FOWLER. 



During the past summer the writer had opportunity to study the 

 collection of fishes in the Commercial Museums of Philadelphia, 

 obtained some years previously from the Philippine Government. 

 Dr. William P. Wilson, the Director of the Commercial Museums, 

 very kindly offered every assistance in this work and through him a 

 series of the duplicates, including the more important species of 

 scientific interest, have been received into the collection of the Acad- 

 emy. Though the specimens are usually without detailed localities, 

 most were probably obtained near Manila. Others were collected and 

 shipped to Manila, so that no localities are here noted other than the 

 islands as a whole. In some instances the native names were also 

 preserved, although many have been lost prior to my examination. 



The characteristic richness in species of the great East Indian 

 fauna is at once apparent in even a cursory study of such a collection. 

 Twenty-six species are described as new and figured. An imperfectly 

 known rare cardinal-fish is redescribed. 

 Scoliodon walbeehmii (Bleeker). 



Four small examples, the largest about 305 mm. Mouth little 

 longer than wide. Teeth entire or nearly so. Upper jaw with short 

 labial fold. Anal fin length little less than its distance from ventrals. 

 Outer pectoral angle nearly a right angle. 

 Mobula eregoodoo-tenkee (Cuvier). 



Young example with umbilical cord and egg-sac. Tail short, not 

 half length of disk. Teeth numerous, little distinct. Cephalic fins 

 curved inward, and front flange folds upward so tips well overlap. 

 Last gill-openings each side wider than interspace. Small dorsal 

 over ventral. Skin smooth. Color uniform pale brown, edges of 

 cephalic fins darker. Eyes slaty. Disk length 254 mm., width 

 much greater. 



PisoodonopMs cancrivorus (Richardaon). 



Giinther gives coloration uniform, with more or less distinct 

 blackish spot forward on dorsal. Bleeker quotes Richardson that 

 the lateral line is not present and in the latter's figure it is so indicated. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 3 



My five examples all show it. Richardson's figure has a much 

 smaller eye and has no pores behind the eye. Jordan and Richard- 

 son give the chin and throat pale yellow in life, and the pectoral 

 yellowish; in my examples, muzzle and head below dusky or soiled 

 blackish. 

 Pisoodonophis boro (B. Hamilton). 



Several, with very fine longitudinal wrinkles or grooves, mostly 

 parallel, on pharynx Jordan and Richardson omit this species from 

 their check-list, though Giinther previously recorded an adult from 

 Zebu.i 



Hemiramphus limbatUS Valenciennes. 



Large series, all small, and with broken beaks. These show: 

 Head 4^ to 41; depth 7f to 8f ; D. ii, 12 or 13; A. in, 12 or 13; scales 

 46 to 52 in lateral row to caudal base, and 6 to 9 more on latter; 

 predorsal scales 42 to 47 ; snout 2| to 3 in head measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 3f to 4|; maxillary 3 to 3f ; interorbital 3| to 4; rakers 

 5 to 7 + 10 to 17, lanceolate, about f of filaments and latter 2 in eye; 

 length 80 to 118 mm. 



Probably Oxyporhamphus hrevis Seale belongs in Arrhamphus 

 Giinther (type A. sclerolepis Giinther) or the short-billed forms with 

 short pectorals. 

 Mugil ruthveni sp. nov. Fig. 1. 



Head 3|; depth 3f ; D. IV-I, 8; A. HI, 8, i; P. i, 14; V. I, 5; scales 

 30 in lateral series from gill-opening above to caudal base, and 

 3 more large ones on latter; 11 scales between second dorsal and anal 

 origins; 20 predorsal scales; head width 1^ its length; head depth 

 If; snout 3f ; eye 4^; mouth width 3f ; interorbital 2|; first dorsal 

 spine If; first dorsal ray If; third anal spine 2^; first anal ray If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; pectoral 1|; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, with fusiform contour, compressed, deepest at 

 spinous dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 

 about 1| its length. 



Head robust, somewhat constricted below, profiles alike. Snout 

 moderately broad, convex as viewed above, length nearly half its 



1 The American species described by Goode and Bean and referred to Pisoo- 

 ■donophis is evidently different in its serpent-like head, strong neck-muscles and 

 constriction of the head somewhat as in Derichthys. It may, therefore, stand 

 as a distinct subgenus. 



Omochelys subgen. nov. 



Type Pisoodonophis cruentifer Goode and Bean. 



Differs from subgenus Pisoodonophis in having the dorsal inserted behind the 

 pectoral. 



{Qijoc, cruel; £YX^''^vg^ eel; with reference to its savage habits.) 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



width. Eye circular, hind edge about half a pupil-diameter before 

 center in head length. Adipose-eyelids well developed, posterior 

 extends over last tliird of eye and anterior very narrow. Mouth 

 slightly inferior, corner falls about opposite front nostril. Mandib- 

 ular angle very broad, obtuse, symphysis forming little knob which 

 fits in depression above. Teeth minute, uniserial in upper jaw, 

 obsolete in mandible. Lips rather fleshy, upper jaw width about 

 half of pupil. Inner buccal folds moderately broad, upper little 

 broader. Tongue small, tip free, elongate. Maxillary exposed, not 

 quite to eye. Lower preorbital edge straight, with minute denticles. 

 Front nostril about last f in snout, simple pore with slight cutaneous 

 rim. Hind nostril short vertical slit, little nearer front nostril than 

 eye. Interorbital broadly convex. 



Mugil ruthveni sp. nov. 



Gill-opening forward about midway in eye. Rakers about 30+46, 

 slender, fine, 2| in filaments and latter about equal eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiae about half of gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly con- 

 stricted, smooth. 



Scales large, in even longitudinal series. Head scaly, scales smaller 

 below, and extends well forward on snout though not to its edge. 

 Scaly pointed flap along spinous dorsal base If in fin. Short scaly 

 pectoral flap (damaged). Axillary ventral flap 2| in fin. Broad 

 scaly flap between ventral bases half of fin. Soft dorsal and anal 

 scaly over basal halves. Caudal largely covered with small scales. 

 Pectoral with small scales basally. Ventral scaly. Three scales be- 

 tween dorsal spine tips and soft dorsal origin. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5 



Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between front of eye and 

 caudal base, first spine longest and depressed fin 1| to soft dorsal 

 origin. Latter nearly an eye-diameter nearer caudal base than 

 spinous dorsal origin, depressed fin 1| to caudal base. Anal origin 

 nearer caudal base than ventral origin, depressed fin If to caudal 

 base. Caudal emarginate behind, 3| in head and trunk, lobes about 

 equal. Pectoral short, broad, Ij to spinous dorsal origin. Ventral 

 inserted about opposite middle in depressed pectoral, If to anal. 

 Vent close before anal origin. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, slightly tinted olivaceous 

 on back. Fins all pale, and hind caudal edge narrowly dusky. 

 Iris pale slaty. Peritoneum blackish. No dark blotch at shoulder 

 or pectoral base. 



Length 240 mm. 



Type, No. 47,478, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Only the type known. The dark hind caudal edge is suggestive 

 of Mugil sundanensis Bleeker,- but that species has 9 branched anal 

 rays, preorbital deeply notched, snout long as eye, etc. 



(Named for Dr. Alexander G. Ruthven, of the University of Michi- 

 gan, well known among leading herpetologists, who has written on 

 Michigan fishes.) 



Mugil ogilbyi sp. nov. Fig. 2. 



Head 3|; depth 3f ; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9; P. i, 14; V. I, 5; scales 

 28 in lateral series from gill-opening above to caudal base and 4 

 more large ones on latter; 10 scales between second dorsal and anal 

 origins; 20 predorsal scales; head width 1| its length; head depth 

 1|; snout 3|; eye 4|; mouth width 3^; interorbital 2j; first dorsal 

 spine 1^; first dorsal ray 1|; third anal spine 2f ; first anal ray 1|; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 2|; pectoral 1^; ventral 1^. 



Body elongate, contour fusiform with lower profile slightly more 

 convex, deepest at spinous dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle com- 

 pressed, least depth 1| its length. 



Head robust, very slightly constricted below, lower profile slightly 

 more convex and inclined. Snout broad, widely convex as viewed 

 above, length about | its width. Eye circular, hind edge anterior 

 to center in head length about diameter of pupil. Adipose-eyelids 



2 Nat. Tijds. Ned. Indie, IV, 1853, p. 265. Benctilen-Sumatra. Batavia, 

 Java. 



Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., Ill, 1861, p. 425 (copied). 




6 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[Jan.^ 



little developed, posterior extends over last fifth of eye and anterior 

 very narrow. Mouth little inferior, and corner falls opposite front 

 nostril. Mandibular angle very broad, obtuse, symphysis forming 

 little knob which fits in depression above. Teeth very minute, 

 uniserial in upper jaw, apparently absent in lower. Lips rather 

 fleshy, width of upper about y of pupil. Inner buccal folds mod- 

 erately broad, upper little broader. Tongue small, tip free, elongate. 

 Maxillary exposed, about to eye. Lower preorbital edge slightly 

 curved, with few very minute obsolete denticles. Front nostril about 

 last f in snout, simple pore with slight cutaneous rim. Hind nostril 

 short vertical slit, little nearer front nostril than eye. Interorbital 

 broadly convex. 



Fig. 2. — Mugil ogilbyi sp. nov. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 

 about 35-F52, slender, fine, 2 J in filaments and latter 1| in eye. 

 Pseudobranchiae about 1| in gill-filaments. Isthmus narrow, 

 constricted, with median groove. 



Scales large, in even lengthwise series. Head scaly, scales smaller 

 below, and extend well forward on snout, though not to its edge. 

 Scaly pointed flap along spinous dorsal base half depressed fin 

 length. Scaly flap in pectoral axil | of fin. Axillary ventral scaly flap 

 2| in fin. Broad scaly flap between ventral bases 2 in fin. Soft 

 dorsal and anal scaly over basal halves. Caudal largely scaly, 

 fewer scales about pectoral basally. Ventral with many small scales. 

 Four scales between dorsal spine tips and soft dorsal origin. 




1918.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 7 



Spinous dorsal inserted midway between hind nostril and caudal 

 base, first spine very slightly longer than second' depressed fin 1| 

 to soft dorsal origin. Last slightly nearer caudal base than spinous 

 dorsal origin, depressed fin 1| to caudal base. Anal origin little 

 nearer caudal base than ventral origin, depressed fin If to caudal 

 base. Caudal emarginate behind, about equals head in length, 

 lobes about equal. Pectoral short, broad, 1^ to spinous dorsal. 

 Ventral inserted near last third of depressed pectoral, reaches half 

 way to anal. Vent close before anal origin. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, upper surface tinged with 

 olivaceous. Pockets of fallen scales exposed with more or less dusky. 

 Traces of darker lengthwise streaks, one to each row of scales along 

 back. Dorsals and caudal tinted with pale dusky, though hind 

 edge of latter not dark. Pectoral brownish and other fins pale. 

 Iris pale slaty. Peritoneum blackish. No dark shoulder spot or 

 at pectoral base. 



Length 210 mm. 



Type, 47,479, A. N. S. P. 



Pliilippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also No. 47,480, paratype, same data. Head 3|; depth 3|; D. 

 IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9, i; scales 29 in lateral series from gill-opening above 

 to caudal base; 11 scales between second dorsal and anal origins; 

 20 predorsal scales; snout 3f in head; eye 4|; mouth width 3f ; inter- 

 orbital 2J; length 205 mm. 



This species is closely allied with Mugil alcocki Ogilby,^ but differs 

 in the larger head, deeper body, longer snout, etc. Giinther does 

 not give the length of the first dorsal spine, though Ogilby remarks 

 "it is noteworthy that neither Cantor or Bleeker have recorded any 

 mullet having the first dorsal spine prolonged, from any part of the 

 Malay Peninsula and Archipelago." 



(Named for Mr. J. Douglas Ogilby, the accomplished Australian 

 Ichthyologist of the Queensland Museum.) 



Mugil philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 3. 



Head 3|; depth 31; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 8; P. i, 13; V. I, 5; scales 

 30 in lateral series from gill-opening above to caudal base and 3 more 

 large ones on latter; 10 scales between second dorsal and anal origins; 

 19 predorsal scales; head width 1\ in its length; head depth If; 



. 3 Ann. Queensland Mus., No. 9, 1908, pp. 21-2. Based on Mugil suhviridis 

 Day (non Valenciennes). 



—Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., Ill, 1861, p. 423, fig. (head below). Madras. 




8 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



snout 4; eye 4; mouth width 3f ; interorbital 2f ; first dorsal spine 

 If; first dorsal ray 1|; third anal spine 3; first anal ray 1|; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 21; pectoral If; ventral If. 



Body elongate, with fusiform contour, compressed, deepest at 

 spinous dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 

 about 1| its length. 



Head robust, somewhat constricted below, profiles alike. Snout 

 broad, widely convex as viewed above, length about f its width. 

 Eye circular, hind edge little anterior to center in head length. 

 Adipose-eyelids well developed, posterior extends over last third of 

 eye and anterior about half so wide. Mouth little inferior, corner 

 falls very slightly behind front nostril. Mandibular angle very 



Fig. 3. — Mugil philippinus sp. nov. 



broad, obtuse, symphysis forming little knob which fits in depression 

 above. Teeth very minute, uniserial in upper jaw, and obsolete in 

 mandible. Lips rather fleshy, width of upper about f of pupil. 

 Inner^buccal folds moderately broad, upper little wider. Tongue 

 small, tip free, elongate. Maxillary exposed, about reaches eye. 

 Lower preorbital edge not notched, with a few obsolete denticles. 

 Front nostril about last third in snout, simple pore with slight 

 cutaneous rim. Hind nostril short vertical slit midway between 

 front nostril and front eye edge. Interorbital broadly convex. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind pupil edge. Rakers 

 about 38+48, slender, fine, 2| in filaments and latter equal eye. 

 Pseudobranchise about If in gill-filaments. Isthmus narrow, with 

 slight depression. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 9 



Scales large, in even longitudinal series. Head scaly, scales smaller 

 below and extend well forward on snout, though not to its edge. 

 Scaly pointed flap along spinous dorsal base about If of first spine 

 length. Scaly flap in pectoral axil about 3| in fin. Axillary ventral 

 scaly flap about 2f in fin. Broad scaly flap between ventral bases 

 2| in fin. Soft dorsal and anal scaly over basal halves. Caudal 

 largely covered with small scales from base, pectoral likewise. Three 

 scales between dorsal spine tips and soft dorsal origin. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between eye front and caudal 

 base, first spine about as long as second, depressed fin 1| to soft 

 dorsal origin. Last about midway between first dorsal origin and 

 caudal base, depressed fin If to caudal base. Anal origin slightly 

 nearer caudal base than ventral origin, depressed fin U to caudal 

 base. Caudal emarginate behind, 3f in head and trunk, lower lobe 

 slightly longer. Pectoral short, broad, 1| to spinous dorsal. Ven- 

 tral inserted about opposite last fourth of depressed pectoral, If to 

 anal. Vent close before anal origin. 



Color in alcohol dull brownish generally, back and upper surfaces 

 with dull olive shades, belly and below paler. Dorsals and caudal 

 tinted with pale dusky. Iris pale slaty. Fins whitish. Peritoneum 

 blackish. 



Length 237 mm. 



Type, No. 47,481, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also No. 47,482, paratype, same data. Head 3f; depth 3f; D. 

 IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 8; scales 30 in lateral series from gill-opening above 

 to caudal base; 11 scales between second dorsal and anal origins; 

 19 predorsal scales; snout 3f in head; eye 4|; mouth width 3|; inter- 

 orbital 2|; length 254 mm. This example figure 3. 



Differs from M. ogilbiji in the fewer (3) scales after depressed 

 spinous dorsal, slightly larger body scales and first dorsal spine not 

 longer than the second. 



Mugil lepidopterus sp. nor. Fig. 4. 



Head 4; depth 3f ; D. IV-I, 8; A. Ill, 9; P. i, 12; V. i, 5; scales 

 30 in lateral series from gill-opening above to caudal base and 3 

 more large ones on latter; 10 scales between second dorsal and anal 

 origins; 20 predorsal scales; head width If its length; head depth 

 If; snout 3|; eye 4; mouth width 3; interorbital 2^; first dorsal 

 spine If; first dorsal ray If; third anal spine 2|; first anal ray If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2; pectoral 1|; ventral 1^. 




10 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Body moderately elongate, contour fusiform, compressed, deepest 

 at spinous dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 

 1| its length. 



Head moderately robust, somewhat constricted below, profiles 

 alike. Snout broad, convex as viewed above, length nearly half its 

 width. Eye nearly impinging on upper profile, little advanced before 

 center in head length. Adipose-eyelids well developed, posterior 

 extends over last third of eye and anterior very narrow. Mouth 

 slightly inferior, and corner falls about opposite front nostril. Man- 

 dibular angle very broad, obtuse, symphysis forming little knob 

 fitting in depression above. Teeth very minute, feeble and uniserial 

 in upper jaw, apparently absent in lower jaw. Lips little fleshy, 



Fig. 4. — Mugil lepidopterus sp. nov. 



upper jaw width about half of pupil. Inner buccal folds rather 

 narrow. Tongue small, tip free, elongate. Maxillary exposed, 

 reaches eye. Lower preorbital edge slightly convex and finely 

 denticulate. Front nostril about last | in snout, simple pore with 

 slight cutaneous rim. Hind nostril short vertical slit, over and 

 little nearer front nostril than eye. Interorbital broadly and slightly 

 convex, depressed medially. 



Gill-opening forward nearly opposite front pupil rim. Rakers 

 about 30+48, slender or finely lanceolate, 3 in filaments and latter 

 about equal eye. Pseudobranchise about half of gill-filaments. 

 Isthmus narrowly constricted, with median groove forward. 



Scales large, in even longitudinal series, mostly uniform. Head 

 scaly, smaller scales below, extend forward on snout though not 




1918.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



quite to its edge. Scaly pointed flap along spinous dorsal base 1| 

 in fin. Short scaly axillary pectoral flap 4 in fin. Axillary scaly 

 ventral flap 2| in fin. Broad scaly flap between ventral bases 

 (damaged). Soft dorsal, anal and caudal all densely scaled, only 

 hind edge of last naked. Pectoral and ventral largely scaly over 

 basal portions. Three scales between dorsal spine tips and soft 

 dorsal origin. 



Spinous dorsal midway between snout tip and caudal base, first 

 and second spines subequal, fin 1| to soft dorsal origin. Latter 

 nearly midway between spinous dorsal origin and caudal base, 

 depressed fin 1| to caudal base. Anal origin much nearer caudal 

 base than ventral origin, depressed fin If to caudal base. Caudal 

 well emarginate behind, about long as head, lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral short, broad, If to spinous dorsal origin. Ventral inserted 

 about opposite last fourth in pectoral, extends slightly over half 

 way to anal. Vent a scale width before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded, dull, uniform brown, slightly olive above. 

 Dorsals slightly dusky above, and same tint very slight along hind 

 caudal edge. Iris dull slaty. Peritoneum black. No dark blotch 

 at shoulder or pectoral base. 



Length 206 mm. 



Type, No. 47,483, A. N. S. P. 



Pliilippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



This species is allied with Mugil dussumieri Valenciennes^ in its 

 densely scaled soft dorsal and anal fins. As described by Day^ 

 M. dussumieri would differ in the bent and emarginate preorbital, 

 spinous dorsal origin midway between front eye edge and caudal base, 

 and first spine longest and strongest. Day's fish is also slightly more 

 slender than my example. 



(Ast:]?^ scale; T^rcpdv, fin; with reference to the scaly rayed vertical 

 fins.) 

 Corythroichtliys matterni sp. nov. Fig. 5. 



Head 3i to vent; depth 7i; D. 25; A. 2; P. 15; C. 6; rings 15+39; 

 snout 2| in head; eye 5|; pectoral 5^; caudal 1| in snout; inter- 

 orbital 2^ in eye. 



Body very long, trunk well compressed and deepest midway in 

 its length, and combined with head Itt in long slender tapering tail. 

 Upper keel each side on back not extending beyond last fourth of 



* Hist. Nat. Poiss., XI, 1836, p. 109. Bombay, Coromandel. 

 6 Fishes of India, II, 1876, p. 352 (non PI. 74, fig. 4). 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



dorsal. This replaced by siinilar parallel keel beginning little below 

 opposite dorsal origin and continued to end of tail. Median lateral 

 keel from pectoral axil, slopes clown beliind close to lower body keel, 

 and ends opposite beginning of hind section of upper keel along 

 back. Median keel on belly complete from breast to vent. Lower 

 keel along each side of body from head to caudal base, and not 

 interrupted. 



Head short, compressed, and upper profile concave. Snout little 

 longer than postocular region, profile concave. Eye circular, rather 

 small, supraorbital keel moderate. Mouth terminally superior, 

 small. Maxillary short, about half of eye. Interorbital concave. 

 Opercle with well-developed horizontal keel, and fine striae radiate 

 above and below. Slight mecUan keel on snout above occiput, and 

 then continued back obsoletely to dorsal, each one being broken at 

 segment junctures. 



Gill-opening small superior oblique slit about its own length above 

 pectoral origin, 1| in eye. 



Fig. 5. — Corythroichthys matterni sp. nov. 



Rings all firm, and keels without spines. Each ring with numerous 

 transverse striae. 



Dorsal origin slightly behind vent and beginning of second section 

 of upper lateral keel, and extends over 6 abdominal rings. Anal 

 very small, about long as pupil, insertion near last third of ring 

 before dorsal origin. Caudal small, oblong, median rays longest. 

 Pectoral broad basally, long as eye. 



Color faded dull brownish in alcohol, ground-color uniform, 

 speckled and finely dotted minutely and irregularly with deeper or 

 darker brown to burnt umber. Side of head with brownish dots 

 and bars, especially on opercle below. Eye crossed by several deep 

 brown radiating bars. Broad deep brown streak from eye along 

 side of snout. From beliind each eye obliquely down below deep 

 brown bar, but not united on lower surface of head. Fins all plain 

 and unmarked. Iris pale slaty. 



Length 138 mm. 



Type, No. 47,484, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



13 



This species differs from the precechng chiefly in its greatly elon- 

 gated tail and shorter snout. Of the various synonyms located with 

 C. spicifer some approach the present species. Perhaps Syngnathus 

 biserialis Kaup^ is closer, it having D. 26 or 27, rings 16+46 and a 

 much shorter tail. The Indian Microphis tenuis Blyth^ is equally with 

 long tail as my example, snout half the head, D. 24? and rings 16+36. 



(For Mr. Edwin S. Mattern of AUentown, Pa., who collected many 

 local fishes for the Academy.) 



Doryichthys philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 6. 



Head 3tV to vent; depth 14^; D. 40; A. 5; P. 21; C. 5; rings 21+24; 

 snout If in head; eye 8|; pectoral 8|; caudal 5|; interorbital 1| 

 in eye. 



Body very long, especially greatly elongated trunk which broad 

 as deep, and deepest midway in its length, tail 1| in combined head 

 and trunk. Tail tapers moderately, and not especially slender at 

 caudal base. Upper keel along each side of back to about last 



Fig. 6. — Donjichthys philippinus sp. nov. 



fifth of dorsal. This replaced by similar parallel keel beginning 

 little beloAv about opposite dorsal origin and continued to end of 

 tail. Median lateral keel from pectoral axil, slopes down to lower 

 body edge extent of first three keels along dorsal base and continuous 

 then to caudal base. Median keel on belly complete from breast to 

 vent. Lower keel along each side of body from head to vent, when 

 slightly approximate over first two abdominal keels, then give 

 place to lateral keels. 



Head elongate, well compressed, and profiles largely alike. Snout 

 little over twice length of postocular region, profile sloping up behind. 

 Eye circular, moderate, center at last third in head. Mouth ter- 

 minally superior, small. Maxillary short, about If in eye, expansion 

 equals pupil. Interorbital slightly concave. Well-developed mecUan 

 keel along snout edge above and one each side which extend to 

 middle of interorbital. Occiput and first 2 rings with mecUan keel. 

 Opercle with well-developed horizontal keel, and from its front end 

 4 less distinct keels radiate obliquely down and back. Opercle and 

 side of rostrum with fine flutings, reticulate and variable. 



«Cat. Lophobr. Fish., 1856, p. 33. 



' Journ. Asiat. Soc. Bengal, 1858, p. 272. 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Gill-opening small, horizontal, well elevated and little before 

 pectoral origin, about long as pupil. 



Rings all firm, and keels each minutely serrate, each ending in 

 slight spine at sutures. Surface of each keel with many fine vertical 

 strise. 



Dorsal origin about opposite vent or about opposite beginning of 

 second section of upper lateral keel, and base extends over 9 abdominal 

 rings. Anal small, length about half of eye, and its insertion on first 

 abdominal ring slightly behind dorsal origin. Caudal small, oblong, 

 median ray longest. Pectoral very broad basally, so its base equals 

 eye-diameter, and length slightly less than its base. 



Color in alcohol rather dull brown generally, sides and belly 

 minutely dusted or speckled with dark brownish. Fom side of snout 

 end to eye deep brown streak, then this as well defined dark brown 

 line over postocular region, on side of back to caudal. Also on sides 

 below this dark line various dusky mottlings, most distinct on trunk 

 rings. Iris pale slaty. Fins largely colorless. 



Length 173 mm. 



Type, No. 47,485, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Allied with Microphis pleurostidus Peters, M. caudatus Peters and 

 M. jagorii Peters, all from the Philippines, but differs at once in the 

 much longer snout. 



Scomberoides tala (Cuvier). 



Five examples. Eleira Jordan and Seale, based on the present 

 species, does not appear really of generic rank. It is characterized 

 by the diverging front canine each side of the lower jaw tip. My 

 examples show this most pronounced in the young, and the teeth 

 gradually erect and inconspicuous with age. Young also without 

 black apical dorsal blotch. S. moadetta has enlarged front canines, 

 besides the black apical dorsal blotch. 



SELAB Bleeker. 



Selar Bleeker, Nat. Tijds. Ned. Indie, I, 1850, pp. 343, 352, 353. Type 



Caranx boops Cuvier, first species. 

 Trachurops Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, p. 431. Type Scomber 



crmnenophthalmus Bloch, monotypic. 



The type of Selar has not been formally designated, so the above 

 may be adopted. Trachurops is thus superseded, as its type species 

 like that of Selar, has a deep cross-furrow at the shoulder-girdle at 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



its juncture with the isthmus, also a small fleshy knob above the 

 furrow. 



Jordan and Starks recently contend^ the use of Selar for the 

 Caranx kalla, C. ire and C. affinis group. 



Selar boops (Cuvier). 



Four adults. 



Selar orumenophthalmus (Bloch). 



Several examples. 



Leiognathus philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 7. 



Head 3; depth 2|; D. Ill, 16; A. Ill, 14; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; tubes 

 55 in lateral line to caudal base; about 13 scales in vertical series 

 between spinous dorsal origin and lateral line; about 20? scales in 



Fig. 7. — Leiognathus philippinus sp. nov. 



vertical series between spinous anal origin and lateral line; head 

 width 1| its length; head depth at occiput 1; second dorsal spine If; 

 first dorsal ray 3; second anal spine 1|; first anal ray 2f ; upper 

 caudal lobe IJ; pectoral 1|; ventral 2; snout 3|; eye 2|; maxillary 

 2|; interorbital 3j; least depth of caudal peduncle 4^. 



8 Ann. Carnegie Mus., XI, 1917, p. 443. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Body rather elongate, compressed, deepest near middle or origin 

 of spinous anal, and upper profile little more convex anteriorly than 

 lower. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth If its length. 



Head rather deep, compressed, profiles similarly inclined. Snout 

 obtuse, convex over surface, protrudes little beyond lower jaw, long 

 as wide. Eye large, close to upper profile, hind pupil edge midway 

 in head length. Mouth small, with short gape horizontal about 

 half way to eye. Lips thin, narrow. Profile of mandible slightly 

 concave to articulation below, which about opposite front pupil 

 edge. Mouth protractile downward. Teeth fine, small, weak, 

 uniform, brush-like, single row in each jaw. No teeth on mouth 

 roof or tongue. Inner buccal folds rather narrow. Tongue thick 

 fleshy, not distinct. Maxillary hangs down from preorbital about 

 f eye-diameter below eye, its expansion 3 in eye. Nostrils together, 

 close before eye about level with upper pupil edge. Interorbital 

 concave. Two short sharp-pointed spines above nostrils. Supra- 

 ocular ridge finely serrated. Lower preopercle edge well serrated, 

 and serrae largest behind, hind edge entire. Supraocular spine 

 almost meets that of predorsal process. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite hind pupil edge. 

 Rakers 6+19, lanceolate, trifle less than filaments, which about 

 2| in eye. Pseudobranchiae little longer than gill-filaments. Shoul- 

 der-girdle edge within gill-opening with 2 firm low processes, upper 

 trifle above and lower trifle below, pectoral base. Isthmus width 

 2^ in eye, membranes broadly joined. 



Scales small, narrowly imbricated, caducous, and extend forward 

 on chest. Well-developed scaly sheaths along bases of spinous 

 dorsal and anal. Soft dorsal and anal with a series of inconspicuous 

 spines each side basally, fin ray l)etween each pair, and all directed 

 evenly backward. Axillary scaly ventral flap f length of spine. 

 Caudal base scaly. Abdomen narrowly compressed, lower face of 

 preanal spine with median groove, spine to vent or midway in space 

 between ventral and anal origins. Short median groove on process 

 of chest. Two small keels extend forward from ventral bases, 

 converge slightly in front. Lateral line convex most its course, 

 reaches caudal base, though with scale interrupted here and there 

 behind. Pores in lateral line simple, each well exposed, and form 

 nearly continuous series. 



Spinous dorsal inserted slightly behind pectoral origin, second 

 spine longest, and others graduated down behind to uniformly low 

 soft dorsal. Spinous anal inserted trifle nearer caudal base than 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



snout tip, first spine about 3 in second, and third about |. Soft anal 

 like soft dorsal. Caudal well forked, pointed lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral pointed, reaches soft anal origin. Ventral inserted below 

 pectoral origin, fin | to anal and spine f of fin. Front basal edges 

 of third dorsal and anal spines finely serrated. 



Color in alcohol largely' pale brownish. Pale diffuse streak from 

 shoulder to caudal base. Below this and on sides of head many 

 dusky dots, crowded at first but becoming sparse below. Along 

 back, close to dorsal base, dusky line. Along anal basally dusky 

 blotch between each basal spine. Near hind opercle edge blackish 

 short line above and another below. Also shorter bar or blotch 

 above pectoral base and another below, axil with dark brown dots. 

 Opercle shaded dusky, also inside of gill-opening. Chest and cheek 

 with dusky dots like on trunk below. Side of snout dusky-brown. 

 Iris slaty-gray. Black blotch on outer portions of second to fifth 

 spinous dorsal membranes. 



Length 65 mm. 



Type, No. 47,486, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,487 to 47,490, same data, paratypes. These show: 

 Head 3| to 3i; depth 2^; D. VIII, 16; A. Ill, 13 or 14; snout 3^ to 3 J 

 in head; eye 2| to 3; maxillary 2 J to 2f ; interorbital 2| to 3|; length 

 63 to 68 mm. 



Easily distinguished from L. splendens by its colors. Falls within 

 Eubleekeria. 



AURIGEQUULA subgen. nov. 



Type Clupea fasciata Lacepede. 



Breast and lower part of belly naked. Lateral line complete. 

 Second dorsal spine twice or more length of third, conspicuously 

 produced. Second anal spine also elongate. 



Characterized chiefly by its elongated second dorsal and anal 

 spines. 



(Auriga, coachman; Equula an old name for Leiognathus; with 

 reference to the long whip-like dorsal and anal spines.) 

 Leiognathus fasciatus (Lac6pMe). 



One example. 

 Amia melas sp, nov. Fig. 8. 



Head 2|; depth 2f ; D. VII-I, 9; A. II, 8; P. ii, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 about 21? (according to pockets) in median lateral series from 

 2 




18 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



fJan, 



shoulder to caudal base and possibly 4 more on latter; apparently 

 2 ? scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin and 6? in vertical series 

 below to spinous anal origin; 3 predorsal scales; head width 2| in its 

 length; head depth at occiput 1^; mandible 1|; fourth dorsal spine 

 2; second anal spine 2; second dorsal ray If; fourth anal ray If; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; caudal If; pectoral If; ventral 

 1^; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 

 21; interorbital 3|. 



Body well compressed, deep, back moderately elevated, deepest 

 at spinous dorsal origin, slight mecUan predorsal keel and other 



Fig. 8. — Amia melas sp. nov. 



edges rounded convexly. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least 

 depth about 1| its length. 



Head large, deep, well compressed, flattened sides nearly evenly 

 sloping above and below, and upper profile little more steep than 

 lower. Snout short, surface convex, though profile little concave, 

 and length f its width. Eye very large, rounded, impinging on upper 

 profile slightly, and center in head length near hind pupil edge. 

 Mouth large, oblique, and closed lower jaw slightly protruding. 

 Maxillary large, oblique, entirely along upper edge slipping below 

 narrow preorbital, and reaches to pupil center. Terminal maxillary 

 expansion 2| in eye, hind edge little emarginate. Preorbital width 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



about 4 in eye. Lips little developed, narrow, firm. Teeth fine, 

 even, short, in moderately wide bands in jaws. Narrow band of 

 similar teeth over vomer to each palatine. Tongue free, depressed, 

 smooth, rounded in front. Front nostril simple pore nearly midway 

 in snout length and hind nostril little larger, close before front eye 

 edge. Interorbital with slight furrow each side in front, slightly 

 convex behind. Preopercle ridge entire, and hind edge minutely 

 serrate. Opercle with 2 small spines along hind edge. 



Gill-opening extends forward about opposite front pupil edge. 

 Rakers iv, 1 + 10, iv, lanceolate, slender, twice length of filaments 

 or 2 in eye. Pseudobranchise long as gill-filaments. Isthmus long, 

 constricted forwards, and with deep trenchant keel over greater 

 portion anteriorly. 



Scales large, at present mostly fallen, finely ctenoid, and apparently 

 in lengthwise rows. Head scaly, and evidently 2 rows of large 

 scales on cheek. Occiput with number of mucous channels. Appar- 

 ently scaly flap between ventral bases. At present no axillary 

 ventral scale. Caudal base scaly, otherwise fins naked. Lateral 

 line apparently complete, and largely concurrent with dorsal profile. 

 Tubes? Suprascapula entire. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about opposite pectoral origin, fourth 

 spine longest though little longer than third or fifth, second and 

 sixth subequal, and first much shorter than seventh. Soft dorsal 

 inserted about midway between eye centre and caudal base, second 

 ray highest, and depressed fin 1| to caudal base. Spinous anal 

 inserted opposite soft dorsal origin, first spine about 5 in second. 

 Soft anal like soft dorsal, though much lower, 1| to caudal base. 

 Caudal (damaged) apparently rounded. Pectoral moderate, reaches 

 about opposite last basal fourth of soft dorsal. Ventral origin 

 slightly before pectoral origin, fin reaches soft anal origin and ventral 

 spine but little short of spinous anal origin. Vent about opposite 

 last seventh of depressed ventral spine. 



Color in alcohol rather dark chocolate-brown generally, pockets 

 of fallen scales deeper brownish. Except pectorals all fins blackish- 

 brown, very dark and without spots or markings. Pectoral pale 

 brown. Muzzle and mandible slightly paler than rest of head. 

 Iris dull slaty. 



Length 55 mm. 



Type, No. 47,491, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 




20 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Allied with Apogon nigricans Day,^ but differs in the much lower 

 anal, pectoral with pale base, and apparently without traces of the 

 dark vertical bars. 



(i/7jAa9, black.) 

 Amia sealei sp. nov. Fig. 9. 



Head 2|; depth 2|; D. VII-I, 9; A. II, 8; P. ii, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 22 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 2 scales above 

 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 6 in vertical series below to spinous 

 anal origin; 4 predorsal scales; head width 2+ in its length; head 

 depth at occiput If; snout 4^; eye 2|; maxillary 2|; interorbital 5; 

 third dorsal spine 2|; second anal spine 3; second dorsal ray If; 



Fig. 9.— Amia sealei sp. nov. 



first anal ray 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; caudal (damaged) 

 about If?; pectoral 1|; ventral 2. 



Body well compressed, rather deep, back not elevated, deepest at 

 spinous dorsal origin, and edges rounded convexly, though slight 

 median predorsal keel. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least 

 depth about l^- its length. 



Head large, moderately long, compressed, flattened surfaces 

 nearly evenly sloping above and below, upper profile much more 

 inclined than lower, and rather convex. Snout short, surface convex, 



^ Fishes of India, I, 1875, p. 58, PI. 16, fig. 3. Madras. 




1918.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 21 



also profile, length about f its width. Eye large, circular, impinging 

 slightly on upper profile, and head center in length midway between 

 hind pupil and hind eye edges. Mouth moderately large, scarcely 

 inclined from horizontal, and closed lower jaw included within upper. 

 Maxillary large, little inclined, nearly straight, and reaches past 

 eye center nearly opposite hind pupil edge. Terminal maxillary 

 expansion 3 in eye, little emarginate behind, and whole upper max- 

 illary edge slips below preorbital. Preorbital rather narrow, width 

 about 4 in eye. Lips rather narrow, fleshy, firm. Teeth fine, even, 

 short, in narrow bands in jaws. Also similar narrow band over 

 vomer to and on each palatine. Tongue free, depressed, smooth, 

 rather rounded in front. Front nostril lateral on snout, slightly 

 nearer snout tip than eye, in short tube. Hind nostril short vertical 

 slit close before front eye edge. Interorbital with slight furrow 

 each side in front, slightly convex behind. Preopercle ridge entire, 

 and hind edge minutely serrate. Opercle with small spine above 

 and smaller one median on hind edge. 



Gill-opening about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers ii, 3 + 12, 

 IV, lanceolate, rather robust, about f of filaments and latter 3 in 

 eye. Pseudobranchise large as filaments. Isthmus long, constricted 

 forward, and with median trenchant keel anteriorly. 



Scales large, finely ctenoid, above lateral line in rows parallel with 

 its course, and below in horizontal rows. Head scaly, cheek Avith 

 2 rows of large scales, though hind row greatly crowded or concealed 

 under front row, and scales on opercles moderate. Suborbitals and 

 upper surface of head with numerous mucous channels. Large scaly 

 flap between ventral bases nearly half length of fin. Axillary ven- 

 tral scale small and inconspicuous. Caudal base covered with 

 small scales, otherwise fins naked. Lateral line complete, largely 

 concurrent with dorsal profile. Tubes simple, extend well over 

 scales, and with appearance as if located on somewhat small obscure 

 accessory scale. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about opposite pectoral origin, third spine 

 longest, second and seventh subequally short, though longer than 

 first. Soft dorsal inserted about midway between caudal base 

 and hind eye edge, second ray apparently highest, and depressed 

 fin If to caudal base. Spinous anal inserted opposite second dorsal 

 origin, first spine scarcely j of second. Soft anal smaller than soft 

 dorsal, otherwise similar. Depressed anal If to caudal base. Caudal 

 very slightly emarginate behind, lobes rounded. Pectoral mod- 

 erate, reaches anal, upper rays longest. Ventral inserted slightly 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



before pectoral origin, reaches vent or | to anal. Ventral spine 

 I of fin. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, slightly paler below. 

 Fins all pale or whitish, except brownish shade on spinous dorsal 

 and scales at caudal base. Latter also with small jet-black round 

 spot, less than half of pupil diameter, just above lateral line. From 

 snout tip narrow blackish-brown line to front of eye and slopes 

 evenly from hind eye edge to caudal base medianly, in straight 

 course, also ends just below black caudal spot. Above this line on 

 snout another given off each side of snout tip, extends up over 

 interorbital then just above lateral line and finally fades out on 

 caudal peduncle above and behind. Pale brown median line from 

 interorbital and borders dorsal bases, continued medially behind to 

 caudal. Opercle with 2 brownish vertical bars. Iris slaty. 



Length 66 mm. 



Type, No. 47,492, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,493 to 47,499, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 2| to 2|; depth 2f to 2|; D. VII-I, 9, i, A. II, 8; scales 23 to 

 26 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter; snout 3f to 4 

 in head, measured from upper jaw tip, eye 2| to 3; maxillary 2yo to 

 2|; interorbital 4f to 4f ; length 63 to 68 mm. 



This species appears to differ chiefly in its coloration, especially 

 the narrow lengthwise dark lines and the small black caudal spot 

 above the lateral line, as in A. exostigma Jordan and Scale. Though 

 very much narrower, the disposition of these lengthwise dark bands 

 is like those of A. quadrifascatus Cuvier. 



(For Mr. Alvin Scale, in slight recognition of his work in the 

 Philippine fisheries.) 



Amia wilsoni sp. nov. Fig. 10. 



Head 2f ; depth 2|; D. VIII-I, 9, i; A. II, 8; P. ii, 12; A. I, 5; 

 scales 22 in lateral line to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 2 scales 

 above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 6 below to spinous anal origin; 

 about 4 predorsal scales; head width about half its length; head depth 

 If; snout 4; eye 2f ; maxillary 2|; interobital 4|; third dorsal spine 

 1|; first dorsal ray If; second anal spine 2f; second anal ray 2|; 

 least depth of caudal peduncle 2j; caudal 1|; pectoral If; ventral If. 



Body well compressed, rather deep, back not elevated, deepest at 

 spinous dorsal origin, and edges rounded convexly, though slight 

 median predorsal keel. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least 

 depth about 1^ its length. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



23 



Head large, moderately long, compressed, flattened surfaces nearly 

 evenly sloping above and below, profiles about evenly sloping above 

 and below. Snout short, surface convex, length | its width. Eye 

 large, circular, impinging slightly on upper profile, and center in 

 head length about hind pupil edge. Mouth well inclined, moderately 

 large, and closed lower jaw slightly included within upper. Maxil- 

 lary large, well inclined, nearly straight, and reaches eye center. 

 Terminal maxillary expansion 3 in eye, little emarginate behind, 

 and whole upper maxillary edge slips below preorbital. Preorbital 

 rather narrow, width about 4 in eye. Lips rather narrow, fleshy, 



Fig. 10. — Amia wilsoni sp. nov. 



firm. Teeth fine, even, short, in narrow bands in jaws. Also 

 similar narrow band over vomer to each palatine. Tongue free, 

 depressed, smooth, rather rounded in front. Front nostril lateral 

 on snout, slightly nearer snout tip than eye, in short tube. Hind 

 nostril simple slit at last fourth in snout. Interorbital level. Pre- 

 opercle ridge entire. Hind and lower preopercle edge finely serrated. 

 Opercle with single small spine. 



Gill-opening about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers iv, 3 + 12, 

 IV, lanceolate, longer than filaments or 2f in eye. Pseudobranchise 

 little longer than filaments. Isthmus long, constricted forwards 

 and with median trenchant keel. 



Scales large, finely ctenoid, above lateral line in rows parallel with 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



its course, and below in horizontal rows. Head scaly, cheek with 

 2 rows of large scales, and hind row of but several under front row. 

 Opercles with scales of moderate size. Suborbitals, muzzle, pre- 

 opercle and upper surface of head with numerous mucous channels 

 marked by great numbers of minute pores. Large scaly flap between 

 bases nearly f fin length. Axillary ventral scale about I of ventral 

 spine. Caudal base covered with small scales, otherwise fins naked. 

 Lateral line complete, largely concurrent with dorsal profile. Tubes 

 simple, extend well over scales, and with appearance as if on some- 

 what small accessory scale. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about opposite pectoral origin, third spine 

 longest, second little shorter than seventh, and first shortest. Soft 

 dorsal inserted about midway between eye center and caudal base, 

 first ray highest and depressed fin If to caudal base. Spinous anal 

 inserted about opposite soft dorsal origin, first spine scarcely I of 

 second. Soft anal little smaller than soft dorsal, otherwise similar. 

 Depressed anal 1| to caudal base. Caudal very slightly emarginate 

 behind, and lobes rounded. Pectoral moderate, reaches nearly to 

 anal, upper rays longest. Ventral inserted well before pectoral 

 origin, reaches beyond vent or about | to anal. Ventral spine 1| 

 in fin. 



Color in alcohol pale brownish generally, slightly paler below. 

 Fins all pale, except dusky shade on spinous dorsal terminally. 

 Upper and lower caudal edges slightly dusky. Conspicuous blackish- 

 brown blotch on caudal base just above lateral line, in size about 

 half of pupil. From snout tip narrow blackish-brown line to front 

 of eye, and horizontal from hind eye edge to caudal base medially, 

 also obscure just below caudal spot. On snout and behind eye this 

 line wide as pupil, though on side of body narrows until like other 

 lines. Another parallel narrower line extends from lower eye edge to 

 middle of pectoral base and back towards lower portion of caudal 

 peduncle. On each side of snout above narrow line extends up over 

 interorbital close above lateral line, and fades out behmd on upper 

 surface of caudal peduncle. Finally narrow median brownish line 

 begins on interorbital and extends to spinous dorsal, borders base of 

 each dorsal fin and then forms single median line again on post- 

 dorsal to caudal. Iris slaty. 



Length 72 mm. 



Type, No. 47,505, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



25 



Greatly resembles the preceding species, but differs at once in 

 coloration. Besides the presence of the third lateral line below, the 

 larger caudal spot and wider median lateral band anteriorly, there 

 are no dark bars on the opercle. 



(To Dr. William P. Wilson, of the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia, to whom I am indebted for the opportunity to study 

 the present collection.) 



Amia radclifPei sp. nov. Fig. 11. 



Head 2|; depth 2|; D. VII-I, 9, i; A. II, 8, i; P. ii, 10; V. I, 5; 

 scales 23 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 2 scales 

 between spinous dorsal origin, and lateral line, and 6 scales in vertical 



Fig. 11. — Amia radcliffei sp. nov. 



series to spinous anal origin; 4 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its 

 length; head depth at occiput If; snout 3f; eye 3f; maxillary 2; 

 interorbital 5; third dorsal spine 2^; first dorsal ray If; second anal 

 spine 3|; second anal ray (damaged) 2f ; least depth of caudal pedun- 

 cle 2^; caudal (damaged) about 1|; pectoral 2; ventral 2. 



Body well compressed, moderately deep, back not elevated, 

 deepest at spinous dorsal origin, and edges rounded convexly, pre- 

 dorsal scarcely with median keel. Caudal peduncle well compressed, 

 least depth If its length. 



Head large, moderately long, compressed, flattened surfaces 

 slightly swollen below, profiles nearly straight and similarly inclined. 

 Snout moderate, surface convex, length about f of width. Eye 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



large, circular, next to upper profile, and liead center in length nearly 

 at hind eye edge. Mouth large, rather well inclined, and closed 

 lower jaw included within upper. Maxillary large, well inclined, 

 nearly straight and reaches past eye center about to hind pupil edge. 

 Terminal maxillary expansion 2 in eye, slightly emarginate behind, and 

 whole upper maxillary edge slips below preorbital. Latter mod- 

 erate, width 3 in eye. Lips moderate, fleshy, firm. Teeth fine, 

 even, short, in moderately wide bands in jaws. Narrow band over 

 vomer to and on each palatine. Tongue free, depressed, smooth, 

 rounded in front. Inner buccal folds rather narrow. Front nostril 

 short inconspicuous tube about midway in snout. Hind nostril 

 moderate pore close before, and nearer eye, than front nostril. Inter- 

 orbital generally depressed, with slight furrow each side. Preopercle 

 ridge entire, hind edge finely serrate. Opercle with single small 

 spine. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind nostril. Rakers ii, 

 4-fl2, II, rather robust, lanceolate, nearly long as filaments, which 

 3 in eye. Pseudobranchise about long as filaments. Isthmus long, 

 constricted forward, and with median keel, especially trenchant 

 forward. 



Scales large, finely ctenoid, above lateral line in rows parallel 

 with its course, and below in horizontal rows. Head scaly, cheeic 

 with 2 rows, and opercles with moderate scales. Head above and 

 mandible with numerous mucous channels. Large scaly flap between 

 ventral bases about f length of fin. Axillary ventral scale mod- 

 erate, rounded. Caudal base covered with small scales, fins other- 

 wise naked. Lateral line complete, largely concurrent with dorsal 

 profile. Tubes simple, extend well over scales, large, and with 

 appearance as if located on small obscure accessory scale. 



Spinous dorsal inserted slightly behind pectoral origin, or about 

 midway between snout tip and middle of last depressed dorsal ray, 

 all spines slightly curved, third longest, second little longer than 

 seventh, and first very short. , Soft dorsal inserted nearly midway 

 between hind eye edge and caudal base, spine f of fin, and depressed 

 fin If to caudal base. Spinous anal origin about opposite that of 

 soft dorsal, and with soft anal much smaller than soft dorsal, though 

 reaches about as far posteriorly. First anal spine about I length 

 of second. Caudal broad, slightly emarginate behind, and lobes 

 rounded. Pectoral broad, not quite to anal origin. Ventral inserted 

 well before pectoral origin, fin depressed f to anal origin, spine about 

 y in fin. Vent little nearer depressed ventral tip than anal origin. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



Color in alcohol dull brownish, more or less with general dull 

 sooty tint, below well as above. Four obscure dark longitudinal 

 bands, broad at first and narrow behind. First on back above 

 lateral line, then along upper edge of caudal peduncle. Second 

 from shoulder just below lateral line, and crosses latter below hind 

 portion of soft dorsal. Third as band on snout tip, behind eye and 

 crosses opercle back above pectoral to base of lower caudal lobe. 

 Fourth obscurely along lower edge of abdomen. Caudal base with 

 round jet-black spot about size of pupil, slightly above middle. 

 Muzzle sooty-brown. Iris slaty. Fins all pale, outer portion of 

 spinous dorsal brownish, and soft dorsal, anal and caudal all with 



3 or 4 rows of small brown spots transversely. Gill-opening edge 

 below broadly dusted dusky-brown, also lower surfaces of ventrals. 



Leng-th 90 mm. (caudal damaged). 



Type, No. 47,500, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,501 to 47,504, A. N. S. P., paratypes,- same data. 

 They show: Head 2f to 2|; depth 2| to 3; D. VII-I, 9, i, and 

 one VII-I, 10, i; A. II, 8, i; scales 22 to 24 in 1.1. to caudal base and 



4 or 5 more on latter; snout 3f to 4 in head; eye 3 to 3f ; maxillary 2; 

 interorbital 5 to 5|; length 75 to 90 mm. 



Allied with Amia hartzfeldi Bleeker,^" but that species is figured by 

 its author with the dark caudal spot median basally, and but one 

 blackish bar sub-basally on soft dorsal and anal, also scales on cheek 

 in 4 rows, and maxillary longer. 



(For Mr. Louis Radcliffe, of the Bureau of Fisheries at Washington, 

 who stucUed the cardinal fishes of the Philippines.) 

 Amia savayensis (Giinther). 



A large series of this very variable species, 40 to 73 mm. in length. 

 Sixteen agree with Gtinther's figure in most cases, but as they have 

 long been in formaline the color-pattern has largely faded. In 

 some the dark vertical stripes are very narrow, as the dark bands in 

 all are margined each side with a still darker tint, and all the inter- 

 vening color fading leaves them increased from the original eight 

 to twice that number. The broad dark band on the caudal peduncle 

 is present only as a saddle above. Every one of these examples 

 have the oblique dark streak from the lower corner of the eye across 

 the cheek. Upon comparison with eight specimens from Apia, 



1" Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., VIII, 1876-7, PL 69, fig. 2. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Samoa, all smaller, the dark streak from the eye to the preopercle 

 angle is narrow, not, quite so wedge-shaped as in the Manila exam- 

 ples. Also some show the dark saddle on the caudal peduncle 

 simply as a dark blotch above the lateral line. 



The rest of the series embraces 115 examples; all seem to agree in 

 the dull unicolored caudal. They show underlaid traces of the 

 three vertical broad dark bands of A. bandanensis, but only one on 

 the caudal peduncle distinct, while others give place to about six 

 vertical and rather broad bands in the space between the head and 

 last dorsal ray's base. 



Apogon savayensis Day^^ may represent a species distinct from the 

 present one, as it is described and figured with the hind caudal edge 

 dusky. It also has three broad dark vertical bands, one from each 

 dorsal and the other a saddle on the caudal peduncle above. It 

 surely approaches more closely Bleeker's A. bandanensis, which is 

 figured with a uniform caudal. 



A . yiuhilus Garman^^ is closer to my larger lot of specimens grouped 

 above under the present species, but differs in the dark bar on the 

 caudal basally, the dark broad vertical underlaid shades on the body 

 below the dorsal fins, and the caudal peduncle blotch complete. 

 Jordan and Scale say it is apparently the young of Amia savayensis 

 with the* markings faded. 

 Archamia zosterophora (Bleeker). Fig. 12. 



Head 2t; depth 2f ; D. VI-I, 9, i; A, II, 15; P. ii, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 (pockets) 20 in lateral line to caudal base and 4? more on latter; 

 2 scales (pockets) above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and about 6 

 below in vertical series to spinous anal origin; 6 predorsal scales; 

 head width 2^ its length; head depth 1^; mandible If; third dorsal 

 spine 2f ; second dorsal ray 1|; second anal spine 2|; first branched 

 anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f; upper caudal lobe 

 If; pectoral If; ventral 2|; snout 4^ in head measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 2|; maxillary 2\; interorbital 3|. 



Body well compressed, contour rather elongately ovoid with 

 greatest depth at dorsal origin, and edges all convexly rounded. 

 Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth 1^ its length. 



Head deep, well compressed, flattened sides slightly approximated 

 below, and lower profile very much more steep and convex than 

 upper. Snout convex over surface, length about half its width. 

 Eye large, close to upper profile, rounded, and hind edge about 



" Fishes of India, I, 1875, p. 60, PI. 16, fig. 5. 



12 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 39, 1903, p. 230, PI. 1, fig. 1. Suva, Fiji. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



29 



midway in head length. Mouth large, well inclined, mandible 

 slightly protruding in front. Maxillary well inclined, straight, 

 reaches opposite last fourth in pupil, and terminal expansion about 

 2| in eye, its hind edge slightly emarginate. Upper maxillary edge 

 slips below preorbital except very short part of hind edge. Teeth 

 minute, in narrow bands- in jaws and apparently absent from mouth 

 roof. Lips narrow, little fleshy. Tongue free, smooth, depressed, 

 rather narrowly triangular. Inner buccal folds narrow. Front 

 nostril small pore about first third in snout, and hind nostril short 

 slit very close to front eye edge. Interorbital nearly level. Sub- 



Fig. 12. — Archamia zosterophora (Bleeker). 



orbital width about half of pupil. Preopercle ridge entire, with 

 broad short spine at angle, and hind edge finely denticulate. Opercle 

 without spine. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front eye edge. Rakers 6 + 14, 

 lanceolate, twice length of filaments or 2 in eye. Pseudobranchise 

 long as gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly compressed, slightly 

 attenuated forwards, with trenchant edge, especially anteriorly. 



Scales caducous, large, narrowly imbricated, in longitudinal series, 

 minutely ctenoid. Scales in 2 rows on cheek, and scales on opercles 

 moderate. Axillary ventral scale moderate, broad, pointed, about 

 f length of spine. Caudal base scaly, also anal base. Lateral line 

 complete, concurrent with dorsal profile. Tubes large, trifid, well 

 exposed. Bones of head rather cavernous. Suprascapula edge jagged. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Spinous dorsal origin little behind that of pectoral, fin low and 

 spines weak, or slender, third longest with second and fourth sub- 

 equal, depressed fin not quite reaching soft dorsal. Latter inserted 

 about midway between eye center and caudal base, spine about 

 half fin length, which depressed extends f to caudaj base. Anal 

 inserted well before soft dorsal origin or about midway between 

 front eye edge and caudal base, first branched ray longest though 

 second subequal, and when depressed neither reach last dorsal ray 

 base. Caudal emarginate, lobes rounded. Pectoral broad, reaches 

 about first third in anal base. Ventral inserted before pectoral 

 origin, reaches anal, and spine f of fin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol very pale or light brownish generally, scales on 

 back above obscurely and finely dusted with slightly darker brownish. 

 On postocular, cheek and suborbital a number of dull brown dots, 

 some enlarged slightly. Blackish-brown band from snout tip to 

 eye. On shoulder-girdle behind gill-opening, blackish brown streak 

 forward to breast which same color. This also extends back over 

 belly below, rising up obliquely after ventral bases to second dorsal 

 fin as broad dark band, in width about equal to 1| eye-diameters. 

 It is also reflected out on soft dorsal basally, but not the anal. All 

 dark area noted made up of large crowded dark specks, larger and 

 more sparse below. At caudal base round jet-black spot, median, 

 and less than half of pupil in diameter. Fins, except coloration of 

 soft dorsal and caudal base as noted, all uniform pale or brownish- 

 white. 



Length 58 mm. 



Twelve examples from the Philippine Islands. Presented by 

 the Commercial Museums of Philadelphia. Eleven show: Head 

 21 to 2|; depth 2f to 2|; D. VI-I, 9, i; A. II, 15, i or 16, i, rarely 

 14, i; scales 19 or 20 in 1.1. (pockets) to caudal base; snout 4 to 4^ in 

 head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f to 3; maxillary If to 2|; 

 interorbital 3f to 4; length 53 to 63 mm. 



I redescribe this species as my material differs somewhat from 

 both the description and figure by Bleeker.^^ This is especially 

 evident in the broad dark band extending forward on the breast, 

 and the black caudal spot not half the pupil diameter. Bleeker's 

 figure does not show the former before the ventral bases and its 

 forward limit is not mentioned in the description. He shows the 

 caudal spot large as the eye. Weber's note^"* does not add sufficient 

 detail to help solve this point. 



« Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., VII, 1873-6, p. 103. 

 " Siboga Exp., Fische, 1913, p. 5. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



31 



Epinephelus mattemi sp. nov. Fig. 13. 



Head 2f ; depth 3; D. XI, 15, i; A. Ill, 8, i; P. ii, 16, i; V. I, 5; 

 scales 92 in lateral line to caudal base, and about 6 more on latter; 

 tubes in 1.1. 52 to caudal base and 5 more on latter; 17 scales in 

 vertical series above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin; 11 scales in vertical 

 series between soft dorsal origin and 1.1.; about 27 scales in vertical 

 series between spinous anal origin and 1.1.; head width 1| its length; 

 head depth at occiput If; mandible 2; third dorsal spine 2f ; second 

 branched dorsal ray 2|; second anal spine 2|; second branched anal 

 ray 2^; least depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal If; pectoral 1|; 

 ventral 2; snout 4j in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 5; 

 maxillary 2^; interorbital 6. 



Fig. 13. — Ejnnephelus mattemi sp. nov. 



Body robust, elongate, compressed, profiles rather evenly convex, 

 though upper little more so, contour slightly ovoid with greatest 

 depth about base of fifth dorsal spine. Body edges rounded con- 

 vexly, chest and belly broadly so. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 length about f its least depth. 



Head rather large, compressed, greatest width slightly swollen 

 below, profiles similarly inclined and nearly straight. ■ Snout convex 

 over surface, profile obliquely straight, and length about f its width. 

 Eye little longer than deep, rounded, close to upper profile and 

 center near first third in head. Mouth oblique, and broad mandible 

 protruding in front. Lips rather broad, thick or fleshy. Maxillary 

 well exposed, reaches about opposite hind pupil edge, and expansion 

 If in eye. Bands of rather small fine teeth in jaws, a few canine-like 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



in front of upper and along rami of manclible posteriorly, where also 

 in but 2 rows on each ramus. Latter but little elevated inside 

 mouth. Bands of much smaller teeth across vomer and on each 

 palatine. Buccal folds moderately broad in mouth. Tongue 

 depressed, smooth, free, and attenuated. Nostrils close together on 

 side of snout, also close before front eye edge, front one with short 

 tube and short cutaneous flap behind. Preorbital narrow, 2| in eye. 

 Interorbital slightly convex. Preopercle edge slightly convex 

 behind, finely serrated and with about 5 enlarged denticles around 

 corner. Opercular spines 3, median largest, closer to lower and 

 little posterior. 



Gill-opening extending forward opposite front eye edge, and 

 uppermost edge but slightly inclined from horizontal. Rakers 

 IV, 3+9, IV, lanceolate, and longest about equal gill-filaments or 

 2f in eye. Pseuclobranchiae about f of gill-filaments. Isthmus 

 broad, bevelled in front, with slight keel behind. 



Scales all finely ctenoid, largest on trunk, smaller along body 

 edges, especially predorsal, breast and belly. Very small scales on 

 head above, with crowded smaller ones basally, these also extend 

 over postocular and suborbital regions, and cheek. Small scales 

 also crowded about upper part of opercular flap. Very small scales 

 over mancUble, and about 10 rows on maxillary.- Scales on trunk 

 in more or less horizontal rows, crossing lateral line. Minute scales 

 over basal portions of all fins more or less. Pectoral axil with pit, 

 sheathed above by broad flap covered with small scales. Though 

 of irregular size scales on cheek in about 25 rows from eye to lower 

 preopercle angle. Lateral line of simple inclined tubes little exposed, 

 and its course nearly concurrent with dorsal profile, out on caudal 

 base medianly. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer snout tip than origin of soft 

 dorsal, spines graduated down from third which longest, edge deeply 

 notched with cutaneous point behind each spine tip. Soft dorsal 

 inserted midway between spinous dorsal origin and caudal base, 

 fin oblong, rounded in front and behind. Spinous anal inserted 

 little nearer ventral origin than caudal base, second spine longest, 

 third but little shorter, and first | of second. Soft anal rounded, 

 also caudal. Pectoral broad, reaches about f to anal, and mechan 

 rays longest. Ventral inserted close behind pectoral base, depressed 

 fin reaching f to anal, and spine about f fin length. Vent at first 

 third in space between depressed ventral tips and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol brownish generally, only paler or much lighter 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



on extreme lower surface of head, breast and belly. About 5 indis- 

 tinct deep brown obscure slightly inclined band-like saddles on back, 

 first at predorsal, second on spinous dorsal medially, third just before 

 soft dorsal, fourth at front median region of soft dorsal, and fifth at 

 hind portion of soft dorsal. Whole trunk and head with slightly 

 inclined dark streaks, irregularly and obscurely, slightly wavy, and 

 quite numerous, but not parallel with rows of scales. Also ground- 

 color with, many pale blotches, spots or streaks, underlaid and 

 obscure. Head more with speckled or spotted appearance than 

 trunk. Coloration of latter extends on vertical fins more or less 

 basally. Maxillary with brownish streak on scaly area. Fins all 

 with obscure speckled appearance. Iris slaty-gray. 



Length 178 mm. 



Type, No. 47,506, A. N. S. P. 



Phihppine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelpliia. 



This species is allied with E. honioides (Bleeker), E. megachir 

 (Richardson), E. diacanthus (Valenciennes) and E. maculatus (Bloch) 

 in its biserial mandibular teeth. It most closely approaches E. 

 bontoides in its equidistant opercular spines and mostly ciliated 

 scales. These characters also agree with E. megachir, but that 

 species has the pectoral long as its head. From E. bontoides it differs 

 at once from any material or accounts I have seen, in color. This 

 has been described as brown above with more or less numerous 

 black clots, which may not be present on the fins. 



RHOMBOPLITOIDES gen. nov. 

 Type Rhomboplitoides megalops sp. nov. 



This genus of Lutianidce resembles the American Rhombloplites 

 in its scaly soft dorsal and anal fins, but differs in squamation, as 

 the scales above the lateral line in oblique rows and those below in 

 horizontal rows. It falls witliin the Lutianince in its entire inter- 

 orbital and dentition. 



(Rhomboplites; £T(5<>9, appearance.) 



Rhomboplitoides megalops sp. nov. Fig. 14. 



Head 2|; depth 3; D. XI, 11, i; A. Ill, 8; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; scales 

 51 in lateral line to caudal base and 7 more on latter; 7 scales above 

 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 14 below in vertical row to spinous 

 anal origin; 25 predorsal scales; head width 2yo in its length; head 

 depth at occiput 1|; mandible 2yV; third dorsal spine 2|; first branched 

 dorsal ray 3^; third anal spine 2f ; first branched anal ray 2|; least 

 3 




34 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



depth of caudal peduncle 3|; caudal If; pectoral 1|; ventral If; 

 snout 3f in head measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; maxillary 

 2f ; interorbital 4. 



Body elongate, contour evenly fusiform with greatest depth at 

 fourth dorsal spine base, and edges all convex, or with but slight 

 keel just before dorsal. Caudal peduncle compressed, about long 

 as deep. 



Head large, well compressed with flattened sides little approxi- 

 mated below, and profiles evenly and slightly convex. Snout rather 

 conic, convex over surface and slightly so in profile, length about 

 f its width. Eye very large, impinging on upper profile, and hind 

 pupil edge near head center in length. Mouth large, oblique, and 



Fig. 14. — Rhomhoplitoides megalops sp. nov. 



gape extends about opposite front nostril. Premaxillaries mod- 

 erately protractile. Maxillary ol^lique, upper edge entirely slips 

 below preorbital, reaches first third in eye, and expansion 2^ in eye. 

 Lips thick, firm, tough, largely conceal teeth, lateral in jaws. Teeth 

 in jaws in narrow bands, villiform, and with outer row of simple 

 enlarged well-spaced canines, only visible in profile in front of upper 

 and side of lower. Vomer with an elongate patch of villiform teeth) 

 in outhne similar to a narrow kite. Each palatine with narrow 

 well-developed band of villiform teeth. Mandible rather robust, 

 moderately deep, rami little elevated inside mouth, and symphysis 

 slightly protrudes when closed. Buccal folds within mouth rather 

 narrow. Nostrils rather large, simple, front one near last third in 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



snout length and hind one Kttle larger, elevated, close before eye 

 above. Interorbital about level. Preorbital width narrow, entire 

 slightly less than a third of eye. Preopercle edge minutely den- 

 ticulate, with slight indenture above angle. Opercle ends in 2 

 rather weak points. 



Gill-opening forward beyond front pupil edge though not quite 

 to front eye edge. Rakers 8+16, lanceolate, robust, nearly half 

 of eye-diameter. Gill-filaments short, about f of rakers. Pseudo- 

 branchiae very large, about long as rakers. Isthmus narrowly 

 constricted, with groove in front. 



Scales all finely ctenoid, smaller on breast, predorsal, edges of 

 caudal peduncle, and head above. Above lateral scales in sUghtly 

 inclined rows to dorsal profile, below in horizontal rows. Most of 

 head scaly, except muzzle and broad rim around eye. Front of 

 interorbital naked and squamation from occiput forward about 

 opposite center of eye. Cheek with 5 rows of scales to preopercle 

 ridge, and on preopercle flange row of broad scales with several 

 smaller, scattered irregular scales. Subopercle, interopercle and 

 opercle scaly, also sides of head above. Caudal covered with small 

 scales, also bases of soft dorsal, anal, pectoral and ventral. Pointed 

 free axillary ventral scaly flap, 2| in fin. Lateral line complete, 

 largely concurrent with dorsal profile, tubes simple and little exposed. 

 On side of caudal peduncle lateral line little superior at first, median 

 at caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little behind pectoral origin, or little nearer 

 soft dorsal origin than snout tip, spines long and slender, fourth 

 longest and others graduated down, fin edge apparently little notched. 

 Soft dorsal origin nearer caudal base than spinous dorsal origin, fin 

 low, rounded or convex, last ray not produced, and not quite reaching 

 caudal base. Anal begins about opposite soft dorsal origin, third 

 spine longest with second little shorter, rayed fin little higher in 

 front than soft dorsal and not extended so far posteriorly. Caudal 

 moderate, hind edge very slightly emarginate. Pectoral long, 

 falcate, reaches vent. Ventral inserted close behind pectoral base 

 or but slightly before spinous dorsal origin, reaches 1^ to anal, spine 

 1^ in fin. Vent midway between ventral tips and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol uniform pale brownish, fins scarcely tinted darker. 

 Iris slaty. 



Length 162 mm. 



Type, No. 47,507, A. N. S. P. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Only the type known. 



[Miyati^ large; ^4', eye.) 

 Nemipterus luteus (Bloch). 



A single example which agrees with the smaller one figured from 

 Cavite by Jordan and Scale. ^^ Though they state '^scales about 44" 

 their figure shows 48 tubes in the lateral line, a point in agreement 

 with my example. 



MESOPRISTES Bleeker. 



Mesopristes Bleeker, Nat. Genees. Arch. Ned. Indie (Topogr. Batav.) II, 

 1845, p. 523. Type M. macracanthus Bleeker ( = Dalnia argentea Cuvier), 

 monotypic. 



This genus has been described under Datnia Cuvier by Day,^^ 

 but as Cuvier's type is Coius datnia B. Hamilton by tautonomy, 

 Datnia merges with the sparoids. 



Mesopristes plumbeus (Kner). Ayungen. 



Datnia plumbea Kaer, Sitz. Akad. Wiss. Wien (May 12) 49, 1864, p. 484. 



Vom Capoder der Insel S. Paul. 

 — Kner, Reise. Novara, Fische, 1865, p. 48, PL 3, fig. 2. "Fundort unsicher, 



angeblich von Java." 

 Therapon brevispinis (non Steindachner) Peters, Monatsb. Ak. Wiss. Berlin, 



1868, p. 256. Quingoa flum., Provinc Bulacan, Luzon, P. I. 

 T. brachycentrus Peters, 1. c, 1869, p. 705. 

 ? T. knerii Bleeker, Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., VII, 1873-6, p. 115. Based on 



T. argenteus (non Cuvier) Kner, Sitz. Ak. Wiss. Wien, 58, 1868, p. 299, 



PI. 1, fig. 1. Kandavu, Fiji. 



Head 3 to 3^; depth 2^ to 2f ; D. XII, 8 to 10; A. Ill, 8; scales 

 43 to 50 in lateral line to caudal base, and 3 or 4 more on latter; 

 7 or 8 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin; 13 to 15 scales below 

 1.1. to spinous anal origin; 16 to 20 predorsal scales; .snout 3j to 3| 

 in head; eye 3f to 4; maxillary 3 to 3^; interorbital 3f to 3|. Body 

 compressed, deepest at front of spinous dorsal. Head compressed, 

 upper profile slightly concave. Snout convex, length f its width. 

 Eye rounded, close to upper profile, hind edge little posterior from 

 middle in head length. Maxillary slightly beyond front eye edge, 

 not to pupil. Teeth fine, in bands in jaws, outer row little enlarged. 

 Mouth roof toothless. Tongue free, elongate, rounded in front. 

 Jaws about even. Front nostril slightly nearer eye than snout tip, 

 hind one slit above eye. Hind preopercle edge finely serrate. Inter- 

 orbital nearly flat. Rakers 9 or 10+18 or 19, lanceolate, 2 in fila- 

 ments and latter If in eye. Scales small, mostly uniform, smaller 



15 Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXV, 1906 (1907), p. 21. 



16 Fishes of India, I, 1875, p. 71. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



along body edges and caudal base. Few small scales on soft dorsal 

 and anal basally, also pectoral. Cheek with 5 rows of scales. L.l. 

 concurrent with back and body scales in nearly parallel rows. Tubes 

 small, simple, greatly exposed. Fourth dorsal spine If in head, 

 fin edge deeply notched. Soft dorsal small, well back, first ray 2| 

 in head. Second anal spine usually longest, 2 in head, though third 

 often subequal. Caudal very slightly emarginate behind, 1 j in head. 

 Pectoral rounded, If in head. Ventral If in head, spine If in fin. 

 Color in alcohol pale olive brownish above, each row of scales with 

 slightly darker line. Spinous dorsal edge dusky, also soft dorsal, 

 anal and caudal tinted with dusky, other fins pale. Iris pale slaty. 

 Length 116 to 140 mm. PhiUppine Islands. 



A very large series of individuals in the present collection, and 

 they cover the discrepancies found in the accounts listed above. 

 Kner's figure of D. plufnbea does not show any small scales on the 

 soft dorsal and anal bases. Bleeker has separated T. kneri, as Kner 

 gives more numerous scales, and more pointed elevated dorsal and 

 anal, etc. Jordan and Scale entirely overlook^'' Bleeker's reference 

 and list T. kneri as 'T. argenteus Kner," and as the locality Kan- 

 davu is in heavy-faced type, they may have thought it distinct from 

 T. argenteus Cuvier, under which they place it. 



Upeneoides philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 15. 



Head 3f ; depth 3f ; D. VIII-I, 8, i; A. I, 6, i; P. ii, 14; V. I, 5; 

 scales 35 in lateral line to caudal base, and 4 more on latter; 3 scales 

 above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 7 below to spinous anal origin; 

 16 predorsal scales; head width If its length; head depth at occiput 

 1|; snout 2^; eye 4f; maxillary 2f; interorbital 3|; second dorsal 

 spine 1|; first branched dorsal ray 2|; anal spine 3; first branched 

 anal ray 2; least depth of caudal peduncle 2f ; pectoral 1^; ventral If. 



Body elongately ovate, deepest at spinous dorsal origin, edges 

 all broadly convex. Caudal peduncle well compressed, least depth 

 about 1| in its length. 



Head well compressed, flattened sides slightly converge below, 

 profiles convex and upper more inclined. Snout convex in profile 

 and over surface, nearly long as broad. Eye moderate, rounded, 

 close to upper profile, and hind pupil edge about midway in head 

 length. Mouth moderate, little inclined from horizontal, and lower 

 jaw slightly included in upper. Maxillary reaches about opposite 

 front pupil edge, expansion 1| in eye. Lips rather narrow, fleshy. 



17 Bull. Bur. Fisher., 1905 (1906), p. 266. 




38 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Teeth granular, in about 3 irregular rows in each jaw. Patch of 

 granular teeth on vomer and each palatine. Inner buccal folds 

 narrow. Tongue fleshy, thick, not free. Mandible shallow, rami 

 not elevated inside mouth. Barbels short, and scarcely extend 

 beyond hind eye edge. Nostrils greatly distant, front one simple 

 pore about last | in snout, hind one short sUt close before eye. Inter- 

 orbital very sHghtly convex. Preorbital broad, width slightly greater 

 than eye. Preopercle edge entire. Opercle with 2 small concealed 

 spines, close and above. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind nostril. Rakers 6+ 

 10, VI, lanceolate, slender, 1^ in filaments, and latter 1+ in eye. 



Fig. 15.— Upeneoides philippinus sp. nov. 



Pseudobranchiae about half length of gill-filaments. Isthmus 

 narrowly constricted. 



Scales uniformly large, finely ctenoid, in lengthwise rows parallel 

 with lateral line. Small scales over most of caudal basally and 

 front of soft dorsal and anal. Head scaly, and 2 rows of scales on 

 cheek to preopercle ridge. Several large scales on exposed maxillary 

 expansion. Pectoral axil with firm adipose scale above. Ventral 

 with free pointed scaly flap If in fin. Broad scaly flap between 

 ventral bases | fin length. Lateral line concurrent with dorsal 

 profile, well out on caudal base, tubes well exposed and each with 

 several small branches. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer front nostril than second 

 dorsal origin, second spine longest with third and fourth subequal, 

 depressed fin | to soft dorsal. Last inserted midway between 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILAl)ELPHIA. 39 



spinous "dorsal origin and caudal base, first branched ray longest 

 with spine f its length, and depressed | to caudal base. Anal origin 

 slightly behind second dorsal, fin similar though smaller. Caudal 

 well forked, sharp pointed lobes about equal. Pectoral small, 

 pointed, reaches If to second dorsal origin. Ventral origin close 

 behind pectoral base, though before spinous dorsal origin, reaches 

 1| to anal. Ventral spine about | of fin. 



Color in alcohol faded largely uniform dull brownish, lower sur- 

 faces scarcely paler. Spinous dorsal pale, apex broadly jet-black, 

 and mecUan brown horizontal band. Soft dorsal pale with three 

 nearly horizontal dusky bands, uppermost apical and lowermost on 

 hind rays. Caudal whitish, upper lobe crossed l)y three oblique 

 broad dusky-brown bars, and lower lobe with two, but outer very 

 broad and black. Median caudal rays also dusky. All other fins 

 pale brownish. Iris pale slaty. 



Length 180 mm. 



Type, No. 47,508, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,509 to 47,511, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 3^ to 3f ; depth 3| to 3f ; D. VHI-I, 8, i; A. I, 6, i; scales 35 

 in lateral line to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 3 scales above 1.1. 

 to dorsal origin, and 6 or 7 below to anal origin; 14 predorsal scales; 

 snout 2f to 3 in head; eye 3| to 4|; maxillary 2j to 2|; interorbital 

 3^ to 4; rakers 7 or 8+13, iv or 14, iv; length 120 to 149 mm. 



Allied, if not identical with Upeneoides vittatus (Forskal) , but appar- 

 ently differs in the presence of but two black bars on the lower caudal 

 lobe, the outer quite broad. The oldest synomym of U. vittatus is 

 Mullus handi Shaw,^^ based on Russell's Badi goolivinda}'^ Tliis is 

 doubtless U. vittatus and Russell says "the length seldom exceeds 

 six inches." Shaw apparently copies Lacepede's crude figure, 

 showing lower caudal lobe likely for the present or a closely allied 

 species. Russell's figure has three dark lower caudal bars, but 

 obliquely parallel with those of upper lobe! Russell also shows 

 spinous dorsal tip not black, though fin crossed obliquely Avith three 

 dark bars, and soft dorsal end dark, also fin crossed by two oblique 

 dark bars. Upeneus bita^niatus Bennett^'' is simply diagnosed with 

 two golden bands below lateral line, and dorsal and caudal with 

 oblique black streaks. 



18 Gen. Zool., IV, 1803, p. 615, PI. 89. 



1^ Fishes of Coromandel, II, 1803, p. 43, PL 158 (-60). Vizagapatam. 



^oProc. Zool. Soc. London, 1830-1, p. 59. Mauritius. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



Under Upeneoides vittatus later writers, as Giinther,-^ Bleeker,^^ 

 Day^^ and Sauvage-^ mention the lower caudal lobe with three dark 

 oblique bars. Giinther mentions two or three such bars, with 

 adult material about a foot in length. Bleeker's figure shows greater 

 upper portion of spinous dorsal black, only broad pink lengthwise 

 band below middle. It also has soft dorsal apex black with two 

 yellow lengthwise bands. Its caudal differs from Day's figure in 

 innermost black bars leaving only narrow pale area, also tips of both 

 lobes black, and bar next black tip on lower lobe twice wide as one 

 nearer caudal base. Day's figure shows dark bars on lower caudal 

 lobe evenly spaced, of about even width. Sauvage mentions three 

 dark lower caudal bars, but his figure shows all the fins uniform and 

 the body with four dark transverse bands. He includes in liis 

 table U. tcenio'pterus with U. vittatus, as a group with eight dorsal 

 rays, though Day, who examined Valenciennes type of the former 

 gives but seven. 



Compared with Upeneoides urge Jordan and Evermann,-^ my ex- 

 amples of the present species differ as the former has pale tipped 

 dorsal and caudal markings different. Jordan and Seale describe 

 as U. vittatus Samoan material-^ closely approaching my specimens 

 and refer to it as uete or vete. Two adult examples of U. vittatus 

 before me from Taliiti, though in poor condition, still have traces 

 of the fin markings, more as indicated in Bleeker's figure, and with 

 four dark bars on each caudal lobe. Smith and Seale report U. 

 vittatus-'^ from Mindanao 4^ to 11 inches long with "each lobe of 

 caudal with 5 or 6 oblique dusky bars." 



(For the Philippine Islands.) 



Upeneoides belaque sp. nov. Fig. 16. 



Head 3i; depth 3i; D. VIII-I, 8, i; A. I, 6, i; P. i, 13; V. I, 5; scales 

 35 in lateral fine to caudal base and 4 more on latter; 3 scales above 

 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 7 below to spinous anal origin; 

 predorsal scales 17; head width 2 in its length; head depth at occiput 

 \\; snout 2|; eye 4; maxillary 2j; interorbital 3|; second dorsal 

 spine l\; first branched dorsal ray 1|; first branched anal ray 1 



4 . 



5 1 



21 Cat. F. Brit. Mus., I, 1859, p. 397. 



— Journ. Mus. Godeffroy (F. Siidsee) II, 1873-5, p. 55. Samoa and Tahiti. 



22 Atlas Ich. Ind. Need., IX, 1877, PI. 342 (2), fig. 3. 



23 Fishes of India, I, 1875, p. 120, PI. 30, fig. 2. 



24 Hist. Nat. Madagascar, Pise, XVI, 1891, p. 219, PI. 27, fig. 2. 



25 Bull. U. S. F. Com., XXII, 1902 (April 11, 1903), p. 187. Honolulu. 



26 Bull. Bur. Fisher., XXV, 1905 (1906), p. 273. Samoa. 



27 Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash., XIX, 1906, p. 78. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



41 



anal spine 2f ; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; upper caudal lobe 1; 

 pectoral Ij; ventral 1|. 



Body elongate, compressed, profiles nearly alike and deepest at 

 spinous dorsal origin. Caudal peduncle compressed, least depth 

 Ih its length. 



Head moderately ovate in contour, well compressed, flattened 

 sides scarcely converge above or below, profiles alike and upper little 

 more inclined. Snout convex in profile and over surface, long as 

 broad. Eye moderate, rounded, elevated close to upper profile, and 

 hind pupil edge about michvay in head length. Mouth moderate, 

 incUned little from horizontal, and lower jaw slightly included in 

 upper. Maxillary about reaches to pupil center, expansion 1| in 



Fig. 16. — Upeneoides belaque sp. nov. 



eye. Lips narrow, fleshy. Teeth granular in about 3 irregular rows 

 in each jaw. Patch of granular teeth on vomer and each palatine. 

 Inner buccal folds narrow. Tongue thick, fleshy, adnate. Mandible 

 shallow and rami little elevated inside mouth. Barbels short, 

 reach hind preopercle edge. Nostrils well separated, front one 

 simple pore little nearer eye than snout tip, and hind one short slit 

 close before middle of front eye edge. Interorbital slightly elevated 

 convexly, flattened medially. Preorbital broad, width nearly 

 equals eye. Preopercle edge entire. Opercle ends beliind in 2 

 small close-set spines above, concealed by scales. 



Gill-opening forward to front eye edge. Rakers 8+20, lanceolate, 




42 PrfbCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



slender, 1^ in filaments, and latter 1| in eye. Pseudobranchise about 

 I of gill-filaments. Isthmus moderately constricted. 



Scales uniformly large, finely ctenoid, in leng-thwise rows parallel 

 with lateral line. Small scales over most of caudal base and front 

 of soft dorsal and anal. Head scaly, and 2 rows of scales on cheek 

 to preopercle ridge. Several large scales on exposed maxillary 

 expansion. Pectoral with broad scale above its origin. Ventral 

 with pointed axillary scale very slightly over half of fin length. 

 Broad scaly flap (damaged) between ventral bases. Lateral line 

 concurrent with dorsal profile, well out on caudal base, tubes well 

 exposed as arborescent groupings at each scale base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about midway between front eye edge 

 and second dorsal origin, first spine longest with second and third 

 subequal, depressed fin | to second dorsal origin. Last inserted 

 about midway between spinous dorsal origin and caudal base, first 

 branched ray longest, with spine f length of first ray and depressed 

 fin 1| to caudal base. Anal origin slightly behind soft dorsal origin, 

 fin similar. Caudal well forked, sharp pointed lobes about equal. 

 Pectoral small, pointed, reaches about 1^ to second dorsal origin. 

 Ventral origin about opposite pectoral origin, reaches 1| to anal. 

 Ventral spine about f of fin. 



Color in alcohol faded largely dull uniform brownish, lower sur- 

 faces whitish. Fins all pale, at least ground-color. Spinous dorsal 

 with broad black apex, two dusky horizontal bands, and penultimate 

 membrane dusky. Soft dorsal with upper edge dusky and two pale 

 dusky horizontal bands. Caudal uniform pale brownish, hind edge 

 pale dusky. Iris pale slaty. 



Length 120 mm. 



Type, No. 47,512, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,513 to 47,517, paratypes, same data. They show: 

 Head 3 to 3i; depth 3 to 3f ; D. VIII-I, 8, i; A. I, 6, i, rarely I, 7, i; 

 scales 32 to 35 in l.l. to caudal base and 3 or 4 more on latter; 3 scales 

 above 1.1., and 7 below; 16 or 17 predorsal scales; snout 2| to 3 in 

 head; eye 3| to 4; maxillarj^ 2| to 2|; interorbital 3| to 3|; rakers 8 or 9 

 + 19 to 22; length 69 to 140 mm. 



Allied with Upeneoides sulphureus but Avhen compared with 

 Sumatran material differs in coloration and more numerous gill- 

 rakers. U. sulphureus has but one horizontal dark band on each 

 dorsal besides dark end or border. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



(Belaque, the native name of the alUed U. sulphureus at San 

 Fabian, P. I.) 



Argyrosomus goldmani (Bleeker). 



Small example and two adults wliich agree with Bleeker's figure, 

 especially in length of second anal spine. My examples show latter 

 2| in head, and jaws about even when closed. 



Sciaena dussumieri (Valenciennes). 



Several examples. Contrary to the contention by Jordan and 

 Thompson-^ that the "substitution of Scicena for JJnibrina by Bleeker 

 is not warranted bv the rules of the International Zoological Con- 

 gress" in my opinion the type of a genus must be a species originally 

 included in the genus under its distinct original binomial. As Gill 

 designated S. aquila Cuvier the type of Scicena Cuvier-^ which 

 evidently was the Cheilodipterus aquila previously described by 

 Lacepede and therefore definitely indicated a species not recognized 

 by Linnaeus or named in his original account, Gill's action is invalid. 

 The first actual designation of Scicena cirrhosa Linnaeus as the type 

 of Scicena Linnaeus, by Bleeker,^" correctly argues that Scicena 

 supersede Umhrina, and the designation of Scicena umbra by Jordan 

 and others^^ is invalid. 



Polydactylus plebius (Broussonet). 



Three examples. Jordan and Evermann are wrong^- in attempting 

 to fix Polynemus paradiseus Linnseus as the type of Polynemus 

 Linnaeus, as Gill designates Polynemus quinquarius Linnaeus^^ many 

 years before 1883. Polydactylus will therefore remain the correct 

 generic name for the present species. 



Pomacentrus violescens Bleeker. 



Four examples, which agree in the squamation and general colora- 

 tion as shown by Bleeker. He gives the pectorals as clear violaceus 

 with their bases commonly with a spot or transverse blackish or 

 dusky streak. P. philippinus Evermann and Scale is very closely 

 allied, if not identical. It is figured with 3 rows of scales on the 

 cheek, the lowest on the preopercle limb. Its teeth are said to be 

 small and uniserial. 



28Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXXIX, 1911, p. 246. 

 29Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 82. 



30 Arch. Neerl. Sci. Nat. Harlem, XI, 1876, p. 326. 



31 Stanford Univ. Pub. (Genera of Fishes), 1917, p. 13. 



32 L c. p. 15. 



33 Proc! Acad". Nat. Sci. PhUa., 1861, p. 273. 




44 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Pomacentrus grammorhynclius sp. nov. Fig. 17. 



Head 3f ; depth If; D. XIII, 15, i; A. II, 15, i; P. ii, 16, ii; V. I, 5; 

 tubes in upper arch of lateral line 18, and pores in straight section to 

 caudal base 9; 3 scales between spinous dorsal origin and lateral line, 

 and 10 below 1.1. to spinous anal origin; 23 predorsal scales; head 

 width If in its length; head depth about 1|; snout 3; maxillary 3f ; 

 interorbital 2^; first dorsal spine nearly 4; thirteenth dorsal spine 

 1|; eighth dorsal ray If; second anal spine 2; sixth anal ray If; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 1|; ventral spine If. 



Body robust, compressed, contour rather deeply ellipsoid, with 



Fig. 17. — Pomacentrus grammorhynchus sp. nov. 



greatest depth well over mecUan region, predorsal slightly trenchant 

 Just before dorsal, otherwise edges convex, and profiles alike. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, length f its least depth. 



Head robust, moderately compressed, sides moderately convex, 

 upper profile at first convex, then concave at occipital and predorsal 

 bulging chstinctly convexly. Snout convex over surface and in 

 profile, length half its width. Eye rounded, little elevated, and 

 hind pupil edge nearly midway in head length. Mouth broad, 

 gape short, oblique, and jaws about even. Lips fleshy, rather 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



narrow. Maxillary extends slightly beyond nostril, though not 

 nearly to eye, and slips below preorbital. Teeth rather slender, 

 somewhat compressed, pointed, crowded close to form an even 

 cutting-edge in a single row. No teeth on mouth roof or on tongue. 

 Inner buccal folds broad. Tongue thick, fleshy, apparently free in 

 front. Nostril small pore about midway in snout length. Inter- 

 orbital evenly convex. Preorbital broad, width about If in eye, 

 ends behind in broad posteriorly directed spine. Lower suborbital 

 and hind preopercle edges serrate, serrse on latter graduated longer 

 below, and lower preopercle edge entire. Opercle with 2 blunt and 

 inconspicuous spines, upper concealed by scales. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite front eye edge. Rakers 

 6+13, lanceolate, about half length of filaments and latter 1| in eye. 

 Pseudobranchise long as gill-filaments. Brancliiostegal membrane 

 short fold over short and constricted isthmus. 



Scales finely ctenoid, largest over middle of side of trunk and 

 become much smaller all about edges, in lengthwise rows parallel 

 with upper arch of lateral line. All larger scales narrowly imbricated. 

 All fin bases scaly. Short scale between ventral bases about f 

 length of spine. Suprascapula with 3 blunt points. Exposure of 

 humeral scale little larger than pupil. Axillary ventral scale broad, 

 pointed, I length of spine. Cheek with 3 rows of scales. Sub- 

 orbitals, preorbital, snout edge, hps and chin naked. Upper arch 

 of 1.1. extends below front dorsal rays, concurrent with upper limit 

 of squamation on dorsals. Tubes large, simple, and each extending 

 well over scale exposure. Pores in straight section small, incon- 

 spicuous, simple or double irregularly, and not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal origin about opposite that of pectoral, spines all 

 more or less subequally high, edge of fin notched and slight cutaneous 

 flap behind each spine tip. Soft dorsal inserted about last third in 

 space between upper hind preopercle edge and caudal base, fin 

 rounded with median rays longest. Anal inserted about midway 

 between pectoral origin and caudal base, first spine about I of second. 

 Soft anal similar to soft dorsal. Caudal deeply emarginate, upper 

 lobe much larger, 3| in combined head and trunk. Pectoral broad, 

 about long as upper caudal lobe, reaches hind edge of vent and 

 upper rays longest. Ventral inserted close behind pectoral base, 

 reaches anal, and spine slightly over half length of fin. 



Color in alcoholjlargely chocolate-brown above and posteriorly, 

 head, breast and belly anteriorly paler or faded in appearance. 

 Iris slaty. Dorsals and anals blackish-brown. Caudal pale brown- 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



ish. Pectoral brownish, with large blackish-brown blotch, nearly- 

 large as eye on base mostly above. Ventral blackish-brown, rays 

 and spine pale. Dusky line from snout tip to eye. 



Length 115 mm. 



Type, No. 47,518, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Allied with P. melano'pterus Bleeker, but differs in the presence 

 of the dark line from the eye to the snout. 



(rpa/j-fxr^j line; p^yz"^) snout.) 

 Pomacentrus hebardi sp. nov. Fig. 18. 



Head 3; depth 2; D. XIII, 14, i; A. II, 13, i; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; 

 tubes 17 in upper arch of lateral line and 8? pores in straight section 

 to caudal base; 3 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin and 9 

 below in vertical series to anal origin; 20 predorsal scales; head 

 width If its length; head depth 1; snout 3|; eye 2f ; maxillary 3|; 

 interorbital 2|; last dorsal spine 2^; second anal spine 2; eleventh 

 dorsal ray 2?; ninth anal ray If; pectoral 1|; ventral spine 2; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 2i; caudal 1. 



Body well compressed, contour evenly and elongately ellipsoid, 

 deepest medianly, and edges convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, length about f its least depth. 



Head compressed, moderately large, rather flattened sides evenly 

 converging above and below. Snout rather broad, slightly convex 

 in profile and evenly so over surface, and length f its width. Eye 

 rounded, little elevated, and hind pupil edge nearly midway in head 

 length. Mouth small, short gape oblique, and lower jaw very slightly 

 protruded. Lips moderate, fleshy. Maxillary extends back nearly 

 opposite front eye edge. Teeth small, simple, compressed, rather 

 obtuse and form as crowded in a single series nearly even cutting- 

 edge. No teeth on mouth roof. Tongue pointed, depressed and 

 smooth above, free in front. Inner buccal folds broad. Mandibular 

 rami moderately elevated inside mouth. Nostril simple pore slightly 

 behind middle, in snout length. Interorbital slightly convex. Pre- 

 orbital width 2| in eye, with broad flat short spine directed back 

 from hind edge. Suborbital edge with few irregular serrse below. 

 Preopercle edge obliquely forward not quite opposite eye center, 

 and 18 irregular serrse behind, though graduated larger downwards, 

 and lower edge entire. Opercle with 2 obtuse short spines. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite last | in eye. Rakers 6 + 13, 

 lanceolate, slightly shorter than filaments, which 2 in eye. Pseudo- 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



47 



branchiae a little shorter than gill-filaments. Branchiostegal mem- 

 brane moderately free over short constricted isthmus. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowlj^ imbricated, in even lengthwise rows, 

 smaller along body edges, and at fin bases. Vertical fins covered 

 basally with small scales. Suprascapula entire. Cheek with 3 

 rows of scales and lowest row on preopercle limb. Lips, chin, pre- 

 orbital, suborbitals and snout edge narrowly, naked. Scales on 

 snout above and top of head all small. Upper arch of lateral line 



Fig. 18. — Pomacentrus hebardi sp. nov. 



concurrent with limit of general squamation on dorsals, and extends 

 back opposite soft dorsal origin. Tubes simple, large, extend over 

 first half in each scale exposure. Pores in straight section simple, 

 inconspicuous, and not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal origin opposite pectoral origin, spines graduated 

 up to fourth when largely subequal to last, fin edge notched and with 

 cutaneous flap behind each spine tip. Soft dorsal origin at last third 

 in space between hind eye edge and caudal base, and hind median 

 rays longest. Spinous anal midway between pectoral origin and 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



caudal base, first spine about half length of second. Soft anal like 

 soft dorsal. Caudal moderately emarginate behind. Pectoral 

 long, about reaches anal. Ventral inserted close behind pectoral 

 base, first ray ends in filament reaching second anal spine base. 

 Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely uniform brownish above, much paler 

 below. Fins all largely pale, though marginal portions of spinous 

 dorsal and anal dusky. Caudal pale to whitish. Very small dusky 

 spot on uppermost scale of opercle. Another dusky spot, similar 

 and about half size of pupil, at uppermost pectoral ray basally and 

 above. Vent dusky. Iris slaty. 



Length 56 mm. 



Type, No. 47,519, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,520 to 47,525, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 3 to 3^; depth If to 2; D. XIII, 13, i occasionally XIII, 14, i 

 or XIII, 15, i; A. II, 14, i sometimes II, 12, i or II, 13, i; tubes in 

 upper arch of 1.1. 17, vary 14, 15 and 16; pores in straight section 

 of 1.1. 8; snout 3| to 3f in head; eye 2| to 2f ; maxillary 2f to 3; inter- 

 orbital 2f to 3|; length 43 to 54 mm. In these examples dusky 

 vent quite characteristic. 



Similar to Pomacentrus moluccensis Bleeker, but without a pale 

 lengthwise line across anals, as shown in Bleeker's figure.^* The 

 latter also does not inchcate a suborbital spine, which well developed 

 in all of my examples. 



(Named for Mr. Morgan Hebard of Philadelphia, an earnest 

 student of Orthoptera, to whom I am indebted for small collections 

 of fishes.) 

 Pomacentrus burroughi sp. nov. Fig. 19. 



Head 3|; depth 2; D. XIII, 14, i; A. II, 15, i; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; 



tubes 13 in upper arch of lateral line, and 10 pores in straight section 

 to caudal base; 3 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 9 

 below in vertical series to spinous anal origin; 20 predorsal scales; 

 head width 1| in its length; head depth 1; snout 3|; eye 3|; maxillary 

 3|; interorbitals 3; last dorsal spine If; second anal spine 1|; fifth 

 dorsal ray 1^; eighth anal ray IJ; pectoral 1; ventral spine 1|; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 2; caudal about 1. 



Body well compressed, contour rather deeply ellipsoid with greatest 



3" Atlas Ich. Ind. N6erl., IX, 1877, PI. 3, fig. 3. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



49 



depth medianly, profiles alike, and edges convexly rounded. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, length about half its least depth. 



Head compressed, rather small, rather flattened sides evenly 

 converge above and below. Snout broad, convex, length | its width. 

 Eye rounded, little elevated, hind pupil edge about midway in head 

 length. Mouth small, short gape slightly oblique, and jaws nearly 

 even or with lower very slightly included. Lips rather narrow, 

 fleshy. Maxillary extends back to eye. Teeth small, simple, 

 compressed, pointed, crowded to form rather even cutting-edge, 



Fig. 19. — Pomacentrus burroughi sp. nov. 



and in single series. No teeth on mouth roof. Tongue thick, 

 pointed and free in front, smooth. Inner buccal folds broad. Man- 

 dibular rami rather well elevated inside mouth. Nostril simple 

 pore slightly behind middle in snout length. Interorbital evenly 

 convex. Preorbital width 2^ in eye, slips over upper maxillary edge, 

 and with broad backwardly directed spine below at hind edge. 

 Suborbital edge finely serrate below. Preopercle edge slopes forward 

 with 19 serrse behind, lower edge entire. Opercle with 2 blunt 

 points. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 6-flO, 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



lanceolate, nearly long as filaments and latter half of eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiae long as gill-filaments. Branchiostegal membrane narrowly 

 over narrow short constricted isthmus. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise 

 rows, smaller along body edges except breast and caudal peduncle 

 above and below. Vertical fins with at least basal half covered 

 with fine crowded scales. Suprascapula entire. Cheek with 2 

 rows of scales. Lips, preorbital, suborl^itals, edge of snout narrowly, 

 and chin, naked. Upper arch of lateral line concurrent with limit 

 of general squamation on dorsals, and extends back to soft dorsal 

 origin. Tubes simple, large, and each well over scale exposure, 

 last nearly to edge. Pores in straight section simple, inconspicuous, 

 one in center of each scale exposure, and not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal origin opposite that of pectoral, spines graduated 

 up to fourth, after which subequally long to last, and fin edge notched, 

 also cutaneous point behind each spine tip. Soft dorsal inserted 

 nearly at last third in space between upper hind preopercle edge and 

 caudal base, fin rounded, with median rays longest. Spinous anal 

 inserted much nearer pectoral origin than caudal base, first spine 

 nearly ^ of second. Soft anal like soft dorsal. Caudal slightly 

 emarginate, and lobes rounded. Pectoral moderate, not quite 

 reaching anal, though slightly beyond vent. Ventral inserted below 

 hind pectoral base, reaches anal, first ray with slender filamentous 

 tip, and spine half length of fin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol uniform chocolate-brown generally, scarcely 

 paler below. Fins also same general tint, except darker or mostly 

 dusky, pectoral paler, and caudal still more so. Narrow obsolete 

 dark line connects eyes around front of snout, including nostrils 

 in its course. Uppermost opercular scale with conspicuous black 

 blotch, though smaller than pupil. Inner pectoral axil brown, 

 though at base of uppermost ray small black spot, smaller than 

 spot on opercular scale. 



Length 70 mm. 



Type, No. 47,526, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also No. 47,527, paratype, same data. Head 3; depth 2; D. XIII, 

 14; A. II, 14; upper arch of 1.1. with 16 tubes and straight portion of 

 9 pores to caudal base; snout 3| in head; eye 2f; maxillary 3|; 

 interorbital 3^; length 57 nmi. 



Allied with P. tripunctatus Cuvier, but differs in the absence of the 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



51 



black ocellus on the back of the tail, which Jordan and Scale state is 

 apparently a distinctive character.^^ Bleeker gives six figures, though 

 none exactly agree with my material. ^^ 



(For Dr. Marmaduke Burrough, 17987-1844, who obtained fishes 

 at Manila, which found their way to the Academy collection.) 



Pomacentrus opisthostigma sp. nov. Fig. 20. 



Head 3|; depth 1|; D. XIV, 12, i; A. II, 15, i; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; 

 tubes 15 in upper arch of lateral line and 10 pores in straight section 

 to caudal base; 4 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 10 



Fig. 20. — Pomacentrus opislhostigma sp. nov. 



below in vertical series to spinous anal origin; 22 predorsal scales; 

 head width If in its length; head depth 1 ; snout 3|; eye 3|; maxiUary 

 3^; interorbital 2f; last dorsal spine 2 in head; second anal spine 

 If; sixth dorsal ray If; eighth anal ray If; pectoral 1; ventral spine 

 If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; caudal about 1?, 



Body well compressed, contour rather deeply ellipsoid with greatest 

 depth medianly, profiles largely alike except slightly humped pre- 



35 BuU. Bur. Fisher., XXV, 1905 (1906), p. 281. 

 3« Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., IX, 1877, PI. 7, figs. 1-6. 




52 ^ PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



dorsal, and edges convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle compressed, 

 length about f its least depth. 



Head compressed, moderate, rather flattened sides evenly con- 

 verging above and below. Snout wide, profile about straight, 

 surface convex, and length | its width. Eye rounded, little elevated, 

 hind pupil edge nearly midwaj^ in head length. Mouth small, short 

 gape slightly oblique, and jaws about even. Lips rather narrow, 

 fleshy. Maxillary extends back nearly opposite eye. Teeth small, 

 simple, compressed, but little pointed, crowded to form nearly even 

 cutting-edge in single row. No teeth on mouth roof. Tongue 

 tliick, pointed, free in front, smooth. Inner buccal folds broad. 

 Mandibular rami rather well elevated inside mouth. Nostril simple 

 pore slightly behind middle in snout length. Interorbital convex. 

 Preorbital width 2 in eye, slips over most of upper maxillary edge, 

 and hind edge with 2 short spines directed back. Suborbital edge 

 finely serrate below. Preopercle edge obliquely forward not quite 

 opposite eye center, finely serrate except several broader serrse at 

 lower portion, and lower edge entire. Opercle with 2 short blunt 

 points. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 8-t-15, 

 lanceolate, longest | of filaments, which If in eye. Pseudobranchise 

 long as gill-filaments. Branchiostegal membrane narrowly over 

 short constricted isthmus. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise 

 rows, smaller along body edges and fin bases. Vertical fins finely 

 and closely scaled over basal portions. Suprascapula entire. Cheek 

 with 3 rows of scales. Lips, chin, preorbital, suborbitals and narrow 

 edge of snout naked. Scales on snout above and top of head all 

 small. Upper arch of lateral line concurrent with limit of general 

 squamation on dorsals, extends back opposite twelfth dorsal spine 

 base, though follow by 3 more pores till below front of soft dorsal. 

 Tubes simple, large, well exposed or over first half of scale exposure. 

 Pores in straight section simple, inconspicuous, one in center of each 

 scale exposure, and not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal origin opposite that of pectoral, spines graduated 

 up to fourth, after which subequally long to last, and fin edge notched 

 with cutaneous flap from behind each spine tip. Soft dorsal inserted 

 at last third between suprascapula and caudal base, fin rounded, 

 with median rays longest. Spinous anal inserted about midway 

 between pectoral origin and caudal base, first spine nearly f of 

 second. Soft anal like soft dorsal. Caudal a little emarginate 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



behind. Pectoral moderate, reaches | to anal or about opposite 

 vent. Ventral inserted just behind pectoral base and reaches vent, 

 spine f of fin. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol brownish generally, paler on belly and lower 

 surface of head. Dorsals and anals deep l^rown to dusky. Last 

 longest rays of soft dorsal with large black ocellus, not quite large 

 as eye, on terminal portion of fin. Caudal, pectoral and ventral 

 pale brownish. Pectoral axil pale, though external base with black- 

 ish-brown vertical wedge-shaped mark on upper portion. Upper- 

 most opercular scale with dusky blotch, much smaller than pupil. 

 Iris slaty. 



Length 65 mm. (caudal tips slightly damaged). 



Type, No. 47,528, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Pliiladelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,529 and 47,530, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 2| to 3|; depth 2; D. XIV, 13 or XIV, 14; A. II, 15; tubes in 

 upper arch of 1.1. 16 and pores in straight section 10 to 12 to caudal 

 base; snout 3 to 3| in head; eye 2| to 3; maxillary 3 to 3|; interorbital 

 3 to 3j; length 41 to 61 mm. All show ocellus on soft dorsal well 

 developed, but preorbital spines very variable, and they may be 

 single or double, even in the same inch vi dual. 



Apparently uniciue in its coloration this species is characterized 

 by the large black ocellus behind and terminally on soft dorsal. 

 With the preceding three species this one appears to fall in Bleeker's 

 subgenus Pseudopomacentrus. 



('0-{(tOsWj rear; Gztyiia^ spot.) 



Pomacentrus lividus (Forster). 



Two small examples which do not show any scales on the lower 

 limb of the preopercle, as in Bleeker's figure, and only 2 rows occur 

 on the cheek. 



Cheiloprion labiatus (Day). 



Two examples. Weber figures the head from his single example" 

 and though his text says the scales on the cheek are in 2| to 3 rows 

 his figure shows 6 or 7. The former numbers are more in agreement 

 with Day's figure, which is called Pomacentrus lahiosus?^ 



"Siboga Exped. Fische, 1913, p. 342, fig. 73. Beo, Karakelomg I. 

 38 Fishes of India, III, 1877, PI. 81, fig. 2. 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



Abudefduf antjerius (Cuvier). 



Two, which agree as outlined by Bleeker in his limits of color- 

 variation, with reference to the dorsal ocellus absent or at dorsal 

 base behind and diffusely dusky. 



Abudefduf philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 21. 



Head 2|; depth If; D. XIII, 11; A. II, 12; P. r, 14; V. I, 5; tubes 

 in upper part of lateral line 17, and pores in straight section 7; 3 

 scales above lateral line to spinous dorsal origin and about 8 scales 

 below in vertical row to spinous anal origin; about 14^predorsaI 



m/TL. 



Fig. 21. — Abudefduf philippinus sp. nov. 



scales; head width If its length; head depth 1; snout 3j; eye 21; 

 maxillary 3 J; interorbital 2f ; third dorsal spine 2; thirteenth dorsal 

 spine 2|; fifth dorsal ray If?; second anal spine If; fifth anal ray 

 If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2^; caudal 1|; pectoral 1^; ventral 



ItV. 

 Body well compressed, contour orbicular, deepest midwaj^ in length, 



predorsal with slight median keel and other edges convexly rounded. 



Caudal peduncle compressed, length 1| in its least depth. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Head moderate, well compressed, evenly constricted above and 

 below, profiles similarly inclined. Snout convex over surface, very 

 slightly so in profile, length f its width. Eye large, close to upper 

 profile, and hind pupil edge nearly midway in head length. Mouth 

 well inclined, gape moderate, and jaws about even. Maxillary 

 extends back slightly beyond front eye edge, though not quite to 

 that of pupil, upper edge entirely slips below preorbital. Row, of 

 moderate, even, rather crowded, compressed incisors in each jaw, 

 end of each tooth truncate, and whole forms even cutting-edge. No 

 teeth on tongue or mouth roof. Tongue depressed, pointed, free. 

 Inner buccal folds broad. Lips fleshy, moderately wide. Nostril 

 slightly behind middle in snout length. Interorbital convex. Pre- 

 orbital width Sj in eye. Hind preopercle edge slopes well forward, 

 so that angle would fall nearly opposite center of eye, and like lower 

 preorbital and suborbital edges, entire. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 7 + 16, 

 lanceolate, longest about long as gill-filaments or 3 in eye. Pseudo- 

 branchiae slightly longer than gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly 

 constricted, trenchant, branchiostegal membrane moderately broad 

 across. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise 

 rows, smaller along body edges. Fins all scaly basally. Supra- 

 scapula thin, entire, small. Cheek with 4 rows of scales. Opercle 

 with moderate scales, small on interorbital, and still smaller on upper 

 part of snout. Moderate scales on suborbitals and preorbital. Chin, 

 lips, and narrow strip on front of snout naked, though mandible 

 scaly. Scaly ventral flaps damaged. Lateral line with upper 

 branch curving up at first, and then largely concurrent with upper 

 limit of general squamation on dorsal fins, and ends below soft 

 dorsal origin. Tubes simple, large, extend nearly over first half in 

 scale exposure. Pores in horizontal section inconspicuous, small, 

 and one in middle of each scale exposure, not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted opposite pectoral origin, spines rapidly 

 graduated up to third, then subequal, fin edge well notched. - Soft 

 dorsal origin nearl}^ at last third between upper hind preopercle 

 edge and caudal base, rays graduated up to sixth and seventh, wliich 

 form sharp point behind. Spinous anal inserted well before soft 

 dorsal, first spine about 3 in second, or fin origin nearly midway 

 between ventral origin and caudal base. Soft anal like soft dorsal. 

 Caudal (damaged) apparently little emarginate behind. Pectoral 

 reaches anal. Ventral inserted below middle of pectoral base, 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



nearly reaches soft anal origin, and spine nearly f fin length. Vent 

 close before anal. 



Color in alcohol largely faded dull brownish generally, predorsal, 

 head above and front of back with traces of darker mottlings. Fins 

 all pale uniform brownish. Iris slaty. 



Length 41 mm. (caudal tip damaged). 



Type, No. 47,531, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



No. 47,532, paratjqoe, same data. It shows: Head 2f; depth 

 If; D. XIII, 11; A. II, 12; tubes in upper arch of 1.1. 17 and pores 

 in straight portion 7; snout 3| in head; eye 2; maxillary 3; inter- 

 orbital 2f ; length 36 mm. 



Apparently falls within the subgenus Amhlyglyphidodon Bleeker, 

 and without much in common with the four East Indian species 

 Bleeker describes. 



Abudefduf parasema sp. nov. Fig. 22. 



Head 3^; depth 2|; D. XIII, 11, i; A. II, 12, i; P. ii, 13; V. I, 5; 

 tubes in upper arch of lateral line 13, followed by oblique row of 4 

 pores and finally 8 pores in horizontal section to caudal base; 2 

 scales above 1.1. and spinous dorsal origin, and 9 below in vertical 

 series to spinous anal origin; 15 predorsal scales; head width If in 

 its length; head depth at hind eye edge 1; snout 3f ; eye 2f ; maxillary 

 2j; interorbital 2|; fifth dorsal spine 2; third dorsal ray If; second 

 anal spine If; third anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal jDeduncle 2^^; 

 caudal (damaged) 1|?; pectoral 1|; ventral spine If. 



Body well compressed, profiles evenly convex to form even ellipsoid 

 contour, edges rounded, and greatest depth midway in length. 

 Caudal peduncle compressed, leng'th f its least depth. 



Head moderately large, well compressed, flattened sides evenly 

 and slightly constricted above and below, profiles alike. Snout 

 slightly convex in profile, surface also convex, length f its width. 

 Eye large, rounded, little elevated, well advanced. Mouth small, 

 jaws about even. Maxillary small, reaches very slightly beyond 

 front eye edge. Lips thin, narrow. Teeth small, uniserial, ends 

 truncate. Inner buccal folds narrow. Tongue pointed, free, 

 depressed. Nostril at last third in snout, simple pore with slight 

 cutaneous rim. Interorbital convex. Preorbital width about 3 

 in eye, deeply notched but entire along edge. Preopercle edge 

 entire and slopes forward about opposite hind eye edge. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



57 



Gill-opeiiing forward about opposite front pupil edge. Rakers 

 4+16, lanceolate, slender, about long as filaments or 2h in eye. 

 Pseudobrancliise about long as gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly 

 constricted, short. 



Scales ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise rows, 

 little smaller along body rows. Fins all scaly basally. Suprascapula 

 thin, entire. Cheek with 2 rows of scales. Scales on opercles 

 moderate, small on top of head. Lips, snout broadly, preorbital 

 and suborbitals naked. Broad scaly flap between ventral bases 

 about half length of fin. Ventral axilla with small pointed scale 



Fig. 22. — Abudefduf parasema sp. nov. 



about 3 in spine. Height of large humeral scale equals f of eye- 

 diameter. Lateral line with upper branch curving up at first and 

 then follows concurrently along back with upper limits of general 

 squamation, though continues as several simple pores to caudal 

 peduncle. Pores in horizontal section small, inconspicuous and one 

 in middle of each scale exposure, not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted opposite pectoral origin, spines graduated 

 up to fifth, then subequal, fin edge well notched and slight cutaneous 

 point beliind each spine tip. Soft dorsal origin at last third between 




58 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



spinous dorsal origin and caudal base, rays graduated to fourth 

 which longest. Spinous anal origin little nearer pectoral origin 

 than caudal base, first spine about f of second. Soft anal graduated 

 to fifth or longest ray, fin pointed behind like soft dorsal. Caudal 

 small (damaged) and apparently rounded. Pectoral moderate, 

 rather broad, nearly reaches anal. Ventral inserted close behind 

 pectoral base, fin to second anal spine base, and fin length 3 in 

 combined head and trunk length. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol deep chocolate-brown, caudal peduncle and caudal 

 fin white in contrast. Vertical fin dusky-brown. Muzzle with 4 

 oblique dusky-chocolate streaks. Dark bar at pectoral origin and 

 base. Each scale with dark blotch on head and dark vertical bar 

 on each larger scale on trunk. Iris pale slaty. Hind caudal edge 

 with moderately broad pale brown shade. Teeth pale. 



Lengih 43 mm. 



Type, No. 47,533, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also, Nos. 47,534 to 47,537, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 3 to 3|; depth 2; D. XIII, 11, i; A. II, 12, i; scales 13 to 15 

 with tubes, then 3 or 4 pores, and finally 8 or 9 pores in horizontal 

 section of lateral line; 2 or 3 scales above 1.1. and 8 or 9 below; 17 to 

 19 predorsal scales; snout 3| to 3f in head; eye 2| to 3; maxillary 

 3 to 3f ; interorbital 2^ to 2|; length 37 to 43 mm. 



Related to Glyphidodon lacrymatus Quoy and Gaimard,^^ which 

 differs in coloration, the figure without black pectoral blotch and 

 caudal only slightly paler or about same tint as pectoral. G. lacry- 

 matus also shows scattered and rather large obscure bluish spots on 

 back. Ahudefduf sappkirus Jordan and Richardson has somewhat 

 similar head markings, but has the tail and caudal peduncle like rest 

 of body. 



{UapaffYj/m, streamer, with reference to the pale tail.) 



CTENOGLYPHIDODON subgen. nov. 



Type Abudefduf melanopsclion sp. nov. 



Body of oblong contour. Preorbital broad, with entire edge. 

 Hind preopercle edge entire. Gill-rakers very long and slender, 

 also numerous or about 76 on first arch. Front border of snout, or 

 space before nostrils, naked. Preorbitals and suborbitals scaleless. 

 Of three rows of scales on cheek lowest row on preopercle limb. 



39 Voy. Uranie, ZooL, 1825, p. 388, PL 22, fig. 7. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



This subgenus appears unique in its very fine and numerous 

 gill-rakers. 



(h'rsc?, comb; Glyphidodon, an old name for Ahudefduf; with refer- 

 ence to the fine gill-rakers.) 



Abudefduf melanopselion sp. nov. Fig. 23. 



Head 3; depth 2|; D. XIII, 14, i; A. II, 15, i; P. ii, 13; V. I, 5; 

 tubes in upper arch of lateral line 16, followed by 3 pores as one on 

 each scale sloping down behind, then 5 pores in straight section on 

 side of caudal peduncle; 5 scales in vertical series between 1.1. and 



Fig. 23. — Abudefduf melanopselion sp. nov. 



spinous dorsal origin, and 10 below in vertical series to spinous anal 

 origin; 21 predorsal scales; head width 1| its length; head depth 1; 

 snout 2|; eye 3f ; maxillary 3f ; interorbital 2f ; last dorsal spine If; 

 seventh dorsal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; second anal 

 spine 2; seventh anal ray If; caudal 1|; pectoral 1|; ventral 1|. 



Body well compressed, rather deep, and greatest depth median, 

 edges rounded or predorsal scarcely trenchant. Caudal peduncle 

 compressed, least depth twice its length. 



Head moderately large, well compressed, evenly constricted above 

 and below, upper profile little more inclined. Snout nearl}^ straight 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jail., 



in profile, convex over surface, lengtli about | its width. 'Eye large, 

 round, close to upper profile and hind pupil edge midway in head 

 length. Mouth slightly inclined, jaws about even, gape short. 

 Maxillary reaches about first f in space between nostril and eye, 

 entirely slips below broad preorbital. Teeth as row of rather even 

 crowded compressed incisors, as single cutting-edge, and each tooth 

 with end rather broad, or truncate, though slightly emarginate 

 medially. No teeth on roof of mouth or tongue. Inner buccal folds 

 broad. Tongue free, pointed and depressed. lips moderately 

 broad. Nostril simple pore slightly before middle in snout length. 

 Interorbital convex. Preorbital width Ij in eye. Hind preopercle 

 edge slopes well forward or about opposite eye center, and both it and 

 preopercle ridge, also preorbital edge, entire. 



Gill-opening forward about opposite hind maxillary end. Rakers 

 31+45, lanceolate or very slender, 1| in eye. Gill-filaments 2 in 

 eye, pseudobranchise equally long. Isthmus narrowly constricted 

 forward with narrow branchiostegal membrane. 



Scales ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise rows, 

 smaller along body edges. Fins all scaly basally. Suprascapula 

 thin, entire. Cheek with 2 rows of scales. Scales on opercles mod- 

 erate and small on top of head. Lips, preorbital, suborbitals and 

 front edge of snout naked, also front of mandible. Scaly flap between 

 ventral bases barely half of spine, and pointed axillary ventral scale 

 about f of spine. Height of large humeral scale equals eye-diameter. 

 Lateral line with upper branch curving up at first and then follows 

 concurrently along back with upper limits of general squamation 

 to end below front of soft dorsal. Tubes simple, large, over first 

 half of each scale exposure. Pores in horizontal section small and 

 inconspicuous, and one in middle of each scale exposure, not on 

 caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted opposite pectoral origin, spines rapidly 

 graduated up to third or fourth, then slightly so to last, fin edge 

 well notched, and cutaneous flap from each spine tip behind. Soft 

 dorsal origin little before last third in space between pectoral origin 

 and caudal base, rays graduated to seventh, which longest and forms 

 pointed tip behind reaching back half-way in caudal. Spinous anal 

 origin midway between that of pectoral and caudal base, first spine 

 f length of second. Soft anal graduated to seventh raj^, fin pointed 

 behind like soft dorsal. Caudal (damaged) apparently truncate 

 behind, broad. Pectoral moderate, 1^ to anal, upper rays longest. 

 Ventral inserted about opposite middle of pectoral base, spine f 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



length of fin and latter not quite to anal origin. Vent about midway 

 between ventral spine tip and spinous anal origin. 



Color in alcohol pale russet-brown on front, shading off on front 

 of back to chocolate-brown above medianly and posteriorly, which 

 latter tint uniformly over dorsals. Region above anal, caudal fin, 

 and anal fin chocolate-brown, fins of darker tint. Pale transverse 

 streak on caudal peduncle and caudal base with broad dark transverse 

 area. Median caudal rays dusky, outer pale. Dusky-brown blotch 

 on upper half of pectoral base and slightly on hmneral scale also. 

 Lower surface of head, breast and belly all pale or light brownish. 

 Lips grayish. Iris pale slaty. Pectoral grajdsh, paler below. 

 Ventral blackish-brown, front and hind margins broadly pale. 



Length 93 mm. 



Type, No. 47,538, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



(i)/^;.av-^ black; 4'-^^"'-', bracelet; with reference to the black pectoral 

 bases.) 

 Chromis scotochilopterus sp. nov. Fig. 24. 



Head 3i; depth 2; D. XIII, 11; A. II, 11; P. ii, 16; V. I, 5; tubes 

 in upper arch of lateral line 19, and 9 in straight section to caudal 

 base; 3 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 9 scales in 

 vertical row below to spinous anal origin; predorsal scales about 32; 

 head width If in its length; head depth 1 ; mandible 2f ; fourth dorsal 

 spine 2; fourth dorsal ray 1|; second anal spine 1|; sixth anal ray 

 If; least depth of caudal peduncle 2; ventral lyV J snout 4 in head 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye 3; maxillary 2|; interorbital 3. 



Body well compressed, contour deeply ellipsoid, greatest depth 

 ixddway in its length, edges convex. Caudal peduncle well com- 

 pressed, length f its least depth. 



Head large, deep, compressed, flattened sides slightly constricted 

 below, and upper profile slightly steeper. Snout slightly convex in 

 profile, length half its width. Eye large, rounded, scarcely elevated, 

 hind edge but slightly behind center in head length. Mouth oblique, 

 gape moderate, lower jaw slightly protruded. Maxillary reaches 

 slightly beyond front eye edge, not quite to pupil. Lips rather 

 narrow, fleshy. Teeth short, strong, conic, in outer row in each 

 jaw, and those in front little larger than others. Inner teeth fine, 

 minute, crowded close behind outer row. No teeth on roof of mouth 

 or on tongue. Inner buccal folds broad. Rami of mandible but 

 little elevated inside mouth. Nostril about last | in snout length. 




62 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



simple, moderate pore. Interorbital convex. Preorbital partly 

 ensheaths upper maxillary edge, width 3 in eye. Hind preopercle 

 edge slightly emarginate, whole edge entire. 



Gill-opening extends forward opposite hind maxillary edge. 

 Rakers 10 + 13, lanceolate, about | of filaments, and latter If in eye. 

 Pseudobranchise long as gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly con- 

 stricted forwards, with rather narrow branchiostegal membrane 

 across. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowly imbricated, in even lengthwise 

 rows more or less converging behind, and smaller along body edges. 



Fig. 24. — Chromis scotochilopterus sp. nov. 



Fins all scaly basally. Suprascapula small, thin, entire. Head 

 scaly, except lips, and on muzzle, suborbitals and interorbitals 

 smaller scales crowded closely. Cheek with 6 rows of scales, two 

 median rows enlarged. Opercles with moderately large scales. 

 Humeral scale moderate. Ventrals with median scaly flap f of fin, 

 and pointed axillary scale |. Upper branch of lateral line curving 

 up at first, then concurrent with upper limit of general squamation 

 on dorsal fins, and ends below front basal region of soft dorsal. 

 Tubes simple, large, and well over front half of each scale exposure. 

 Pores in horizontal section simple, small, one in middle of each scale 

 exposure, and 2 irregularly on caudal base. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



Spinous dorsal inserted about over ventral origin, spines graduated 

 up to fourth after which subequal, fin edge notched and cutaneous 

 flap from behind tip of each spine. Soft dorsal inserted nearly at 

 last fourth in space between pectoral origin and caudal base, rays 

 graduated up to fifth which form.s point extending back well beyond 

 caudal base. Spinous anal inserted midway between pectoral origin 

 and caudal base, first spine 3 in second. Soft anal more rounded 

 than soft dorsal, first 6 rays subequal. Caudal deeplj^ forked, about 

 21 in combined head and trunk, lobes sharply pointed and upper 

 much longer. Pectoral reaches vent, which close before anal. 

 Ventral reaches slightly beyond vent to anal, and insertion close 

 behind pectoral base. Ventral spine f of fin. 



Color in alcohol largely dull uniform brownish, scarcely paler 

 below. Some small obscure whitish spots sprinkled on opercles 

 and upper side of head, along middle of side and near depressed 

 pectoral tip. Head brownish above, especially interorbital and 

 upper snout surface. Iris slaty. Spinous dorsal blackish-brown. 

 Soft dorsal blackish-brown basally, which broadly so at first and 

 narrowly behind, rest of fin white. Dark color of this fin also reflected 

 on adjacent region of back. Caudal white, except upper and lower 

 borders broadly, to tips of lobes, which blackish-brown. Anals 

 white, except along front edge of soft anal broad blackish-brown 

 band to hindmost tip of fin. Pectoral pale, with small brownish 

 axillary blotch above, though not extending on outside of fin. Ven- 

 tral brownish, darker terminally. Apparently whole general colora- 

 tion more or less olivaceous when fresh. 



Length 115 mm. 



Type, No. 47,539, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Musemns of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also No. 47,540, paratype, same data: Head 3|; depth 2; D. 

 XIII, 11; A. II, 11; tubes in upper arch of 1.1. 18, and 7 in straight 

 section to caudal base; snout 4 in head measured from upper jaw 

 tip; eye 2f ; maxillary 2|; interorbital 31; length 75 mm. 



Allied with Chromis xanthochir (Bleeker), l3ut differs in its colora- 

 tion as represented in his colored figure .■*° 



(^IxoraTu^^ dark; /ji^<>?, edge; r^rspo-^^ fin.) 



Chromis philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 25. 



Head 3f ; depth 1|; D. XII, 11; A. II, 11; P. ii, 15; V. I, 5; tubes 

 in upper arch of lateral line about 15, and 9 pores in straight portion 



« Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., IX, 1877, PI. 3, fig. 5. 




64 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



to caudal base; 3 scales above 1.1. to spinous dorsal origin, and 9 

 below in vertical series to spinous anal origin; about 23 predorsal 

 scales; head width If in its length; mandible 2|; third dorsal spine 

 2|; twelfth dorsal spine 3; fourth dorsal ray If; second anal spine 

 2|; sixth anal ray 1|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2; pectoral i; 

 ventral 1; snout 3| in head measured from upper jaw tip; e3'e2§; 

 maxillary 3; interorbital 2f. 



Body well compressed, contour somewhat ovoid with greatest 

 depth near spinous dorsal front, and edges all convex. Caudal 

 peduncle compressed, about long as deep. 



Fig. 25. — Chromis philippinus sp. nov. 



Head rather large, well compressed, flattened sides slightly con- 

 stricted below, profiles similarly and nearly evenly convex. Snout 

 convex in profile and over surface, length f its width. Eye circular, 

 large, but slightly elevated and hind pupil edge about midway in 

 head length. Mouth small, oblique, gape short, and closed lower 

 jaw slightly protrudes. Maxillary small, extends back very slightly 

 beyond front eye edge. Lips fleshy, rather narrow. Teeth fine, 

 simple, conic, strong, in bands in jaws, and entire outer row enlarged, 

 especially anteriorly. No teeth on mouth roof or on tongue. Inner 

 buccal folds broad. Tongue broad, depressed and free. Nostril 

 simple pore at last | in snout. Interorbital convex. Preorbital 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



ensheaths upper maxillary edge, its width 2| in eye. Hind pre- 

 opercle edge obliquely forward opposite hind pupil edge, little 

 emarginate below, and entire. 



Gill-opening forward opposite front eye edge. Rakers 9+20, 

 lanceolate, very slender, slightly less than filaments or latter about 

 2 in eye. Pseudobranchise about as long as gill-filaments. Isthmus 

 narrowly constricted, especially anteriorly, with rather narrow 

 branchiostegal membrane across. 



Scales finely ctenoid, narrowly imbricated in even lengthwise 

 rows somewhat converging behind, and smaller along body edges. 

 Fins all scaly basally. Suprascapula small, entire. Head scaly, 

 except lips, and on snout and mandible scales quite small. Cheek 

 with 4 rows of scales, and a single row of broad ones on preorbital. 

 Scales on opercle moderate. Humeral scale large as eye. Small 

 scales on breast and pointed scaly flap between ventral bases 3 in fin, 

 and pointed axillary scaly flap about same. Upper branch of lateral 

 line curves up at first, then concurrent with upper limit of general 

 squamation on dorsal fins, and ending below soft dorsal origin. 

 Tubes simple, large, and extend well over each scale or for about 

 first f its exposure. Pores in horizontal section mostly simple and 

 single, though some few double, all median on each scale exposure, 

 and not on caudal base. 



Spinous dorsal inserted about opposite hind basal pectoral edge, 

 spines slightly graduated to third, others more or less subequal, 

 and fin edge notched. Soft dorsal inserted about last third in space 

 between liind preopercle edge and caudal base, graduated to fourth 

 and fifth rays, which form point behind extending slightly beyond 

 caudal base. Spinous anal inserted nearer pectoral origin than 

 caudal base, first spine nearly f length of second. Soft anal little 

 more oblong than soft dorsal, little shorter behind. Caudal deeply 

 forked, subequal lobes sharply pointed, 2| in combined head and 

 trunk. Pectoral reaches second anal spine base. Ventral inserted 

 below last half of pectoral base, reaches nearly to anal, and spine 

 about Y o^ fill- Vent about midway between depressed ventral 

 spine tip and anal origin. 



Color in alcohol dark brown above generally, and lower surface 

 paler. Traces of obscure mottling or spots on head above and back 

 especially anteriorly. Under surface of head, with lips pale. Iris 

 slaty. Dorsals blackish-brown, also anals. Caudal with lengthwise 

 blackish-brown band broadly on upper lobe above and lower lobe 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF ' [Jan., 



below, rest of fin paler or gray-brown. Pectoral and ventral pale 

 brown. 



Length 70 mm. 



Type, No. 47,541, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Also Nos. 47,542 to 47,547, paratypes, same data. These show: 

 Head 3 to Sf; depth If to 2; D. XII, 11, once XII, 10; A. II, 11, 

 rarely II, 10 to II, 12; tubes in upper arch of 1.1. 15, rarely 14; pores 

 in straight portion of 1.1. 10, rarely 9 or 12; snout 3| to 4 in head 

 measured from upper jaw tip; eye 2f to 2|; maxillary 2f to 3|; 

 interorbital 2f to 2|; length 58 to 75 mm. Some of the smaller ones 

 show a slight depression concavely above eye in upper profile. 



Allied with Chromis ternatensis (Bleeker), especially in its pale 

 anal and dark edged caudal, though differs in its preorbital not 

 half so wide as in Bleeker's figure. ^^ Day's figure of Heliastes lepi- 

 durus^'^ is close in proportions, and is likely identical with the present 

 species. His figure differs in a radiation of scales below the eye 

 and the dark pectoral spot appears above the pectoral base and not 

 on the base of first ray. 



HOPLOCHROMIS subgan. nov. 

 Type Helioses cceruleus Cuvier. 



Differs from the subgenus Chromis, as represented by the preceding 

 species, in the presence of external outwardly directed conic teeth 

 in each jaw. 



("O-Xdv, armour; Chromis; with reference to the external series of 

 teeth.) 

 Chromis caeruleus (Cuvier). 



Six examples. 



Callyodon philippinus sp. nov. Fig. 26. 



Head 3; depth 2f ; D. IX, 10, i; A. Ill, 9, i; P. ii, 12; V. I, 5; scales 

 in lateral line 19+5 to caudal base and 2 more on latter; 2 scales 

 between spinous dorsal origin and 1.1. and 6 below in vertical series 

 to spinous anal origin; 6 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; 

 head depth 1^; snout 2\; eye 6f ; maxillary 5; interorbital 2f ; third 

 dorsal spine 3; first dorsal ray 2f ; third anal spine 3|; third anal ray 

 2|; least depth of caudal peduncle 2|; caudal If; pectoral If; ventral 

 14. 



^1 Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., IX, 1877, PI. 4, fig. 4. 

 « Fishes of India, III, 1877, PI. 82, fig. 1. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



67 



Body compressed, contour elongately ellipsoid, deepest about 

 midway in its length, and edges convexly rounded. Caudal peduncle 

 well compressed, length about f its least depth. 



Head large, compressed, flattened sides about evenly constricted 

 above and below, and upper profile a little more evenly convex than 

 lower. Snout convex in profile and over surface, long as wide. 

 Eye small, a little elevated, rounded, and its center nearly midway 

 in head length. Mouth small, gape inclined forward, jaws even. 

 Lips thin, broad, not covering teeth. Teeth welded into sharp-edged 

 even cutting-edge. Two large upper posterior canines and larger 

 lower one on each side. Inner buccal membranes broad. Tongue 



Fig. 26. — Callyodon philippinus sp. nov. 



thick, depressed, apparently not free. Maxillary not half way in 

 snout, not nearly to front nostril. Nostrils small, lateral, incon- 

 spicuous, little separated, hind one about | an eye-diameter before 

 eye and both near level of upper eye edge. Interorbital broadly 

 convex. Opercular flap narrow. 



Gill-opening extends forward close behind hind nostril. Rakers 

 32 very short weak flexible points on outer edge of first arch, and 

 about 52 slender setae-like rakers on inner edge, which latter about 

 3| in gill-filaments. Gill-filaments 2 in snout length. Pseudo- 

 branchiae about I of gill-filaments. Isthmus narrowly constricted, 

 gill-membranes adnate. 



Scales large, cycloid, and those on middle of sides with exposed 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Jan., 



width a little less than half of exposed depths. Snout, interorbital, 

 preorbital, muzzle and lower limb of preopercle anteriorly, naked. 

 Cheek with 2 rows of broad scales. Several large scales on opercle. 

 Fins, except base of caudal which covered with large scales, naked. 

 Smaller scales along bases of dorsals and anals. Round scale between 

 ventral bases about ^ of fin, and pointed axillary scale about 2|. 

 Lateral line concurrent with back, slopes down below bases of last 

 dorsal rays and midway along side of caudal peduncle on caudal 

 base. Tubes in first section of lateral line with several branches, 

 all small, main stem most conspicuous and branches small. 



Origin of spinous dorsal about over that of pectoral, spines more 

 or less equal, rather flexible adipose ends present, and edge of fin 

 entire. Soft dorsal origin little nearer upper corner of gill-opening 

 than caudal base, membranes very shallowly emarginate along fin 

 edge, and rays subequally high. Anal spines graduated to third, 

 which longest, each ending in flexible adipose-like end. Soft anal 

 like soft dorsal. Closed caudal slightly concave behind, when 

 expanded nearly truncate and corners always sharp-pointed. Pec- 

 toral broad, upper rays longest, and fin | to anal. Ventral inserted 

 about opposite pectoral origin, fin about f to anal, and spine ends 

 in flexible adipose-like tip f of fin length. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded pale brownish with traces of olivaceous. 

 Dorsals marginally with broad pale band length of both fins. Anal 

 with similar submarginal band lengthwise. Caudal uniform brown- 

 ish. Pectoral pale olive, but second, third and upper portions of 

 fourth branched rays with their intervening rays dark brown, forming 

 a lengthwise dark band. Ventral pale uniform brownish. Upper 

 lip broadly pale, and with narrow line from mouth corner back to 

 eye. Also short pale line from behind eye over postorbital, besides 

 several smaller ones below, at lower edges. Small broken bars and 

 spots of pale brownish on under surface of head. Iris slaty. 



Length 215 mm. 



Type, No. 47,548, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



This species somewhat resembles Calhjodon rivulatus (Valenciennes) 

 as figured by Bleeker,*^ but differs in the coloration, as there are no 

 traces of the green median spots on the soft dorsal, the dark pectoral 

 band is lower on the fin, and it does not show the spots and bars of 

 pale color on the under surface of the head. 



« Atlas Ich. Ind. Neerl., I, 1862, p. 44, PL 9, fig. 3. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



Siganus fuscescens (Houttuyn). 



Large series, mostly young. These identical with material from 

 Bacon, P. I., upon comparison. All have a dark shoulder-blotch 

 and dark spots or blotches on trunk. 



Siganus corallinus (Valenciennes). 



One which cHffers slightly from a Sumatran example in the smaller 

 dark spots on the head, doubtless due to age. Both agree largely 

 with Miiller and Schlegel's account. The alleged closely related 

 Chcetodon guttatus Bloch shows no dark spots on the head. Surely 

 the figure by Quoy and Gaimard of their Amphacanthus argenteus 

 cannot refer to this genus as it is shown with five dorsal spines and 

 three anal spines. Its trunk is clouded olive and brown, and there 

 is a white bar on the caudal peduncle. 



DROMBUS Jordan and Seals. 

 ULCIGOBIUS subgen. nov. 



Type Drombus maculipinnis sp. nov. 



Differs from subgenus Drombus in the higher spinous dorsal, larger 

 scales and very conspicuous pores on the sides of the head. Ventrals 

 joined, at least for their basal halves. 



Probably D. tutuilce Jordan and Scale belongs in the present group. 



{Ulcis, boil, with reference to the pores on the side of the head; 

 Gohius.) 



Drombus maculipinnis sp. nov. Fig. 27. 



Head 3; depth 3f ; D. VI-10; A. I, 7; P. i, 14; V. I, 5; scales 23 in 

 median lateral series from shoulder to caudal base and 3 more on 

 latter; about 7 scales between second dorsal origin and anal origin; 

 about 6? predorsal scales; head width If in its length; head depth 

 at occiput If; mandible 3|; first dorsal spine slightly less than head; 

 eighth dorsal ray If; last anal ray If; least depth of caudal peduncle 

 2yV; pectoral 1; ventral If; snout 3f in head measured from upper 

 jaw tip; eye 4|; maxillary 3|; interorbital about 2 in eye. 



Body moderately long, compressed though little robust anteriorly 

 and deepest about second dorsal origin. Body edges all rounded 

 convexly. Caudal peduncle compressed, slightly longer than deep. 



Head large, elongate, profiles similar, cheeks and lower sides 

 greatly and evenly swollen backward, with upper head surface more 

 constricted than lower. Snout convex over profile and surface, 

 length f its width. Eye moderate, superior, advanced, largely 

 directed upward. Mouth small, broad, gape extends about first 

 I in snout. Mandible broad, protrudes, rather shallow. Lips thick, 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Jan., 



fleshy, firm. Teeth in rather broad villiform bands in jaws, none 

 on vomer, palatines or tongue. Inner buccal folds both rather 

 broad. Tongue large, thick, oblong, adnate, and front end rather 

 broadly truncate. Nostril small pore in depression at base of snout 

 close before eye, but not visible in superior view. Interorbital 

 deep narrow groove between elevated supraorbital ridges. 



Gill-opening entirely lateral, long as space between mandible tip 

 and front eye edge. Rakers 2+6, iii, lanceolate, slightly less than 

 filaments, and latter about half of eye. Isthmus broad, width 

 equals snout and half of eye. 



Scales large, ctenoid, moderately exposed, in even lengthwise 



Fig. 27. — Drombus maculipinnis sp. nov. 



rows. Caudal base scaly. Head scalj^, with numerous transverse 

 cutaneous narrow areas on cheek, side of head and snout. Cutaneous 

 flap each side of snout tip nearly equal to pupil in length. Fins 

 other than caudal apparently scaleless and without scaly flaps. 

 No 1.1. 



Spinous dorsal inserted little nearer mandible tip than last dorsal 

 ray base, first spines elongate, flexible and reach about f in second 

 dorsal base. Origin of soft dorsal much nearer caudal base than 

 hind eye edge, median and posterior rays little longer, and last ones 

 reach caudal base. Anal origin close behind dorsal origin, fin similar 

 to soft dorsal only smaller. Caudal elongate and ends in median 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



point behind. Pectoral large, with broad base, and reaches little 

 beyond anal origin. Ventral inserted below gill-opening close before 

 pectoral base, fins united for their basal halves, and reach large vent 

 close before anal. Ventral spine small, about f length of fin. 



Color in alcohol dark chocolate-brown, with basal pockets of scales 

 dusky to blackish, and together with paler spots producing a mottled 

 appearance. Fins all blackish or dusky-brown, barred or spotted 

 with whitish. Cutaneous areas on head dark. Iris slaty. 



Length 50 mm. 



Type, No. 47,549, A. N. S. P. 



Philippine Islands. Presented by the Commercial Museums of 

 Philadelphia. 



Dromhus palackyi Jordan and Seale*^ has smaller scales, about 

 31 in a lateral series, body more slender or with the depth 6 and fins 

 not marked with wliite. 



{Macula, spot; pinna, fin.) 



« Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVIII, 1905, p. 797, fig. 15. 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March^ 



March 19. 

 Henry Skinner, M,D., Sc.D., in the Chair. 



Fifty persons present. 



The death, on February 26, of Samuel Gibson Dixon, M.D., LL.D., 

 Sc.D., President of the Academy, having been announced, the 

 following minute prepared for a special meeting of the Council by 

 John Cadwalader, LL.D., Vice President of the Academy, was read: 



This Academy has met the most serious loss in the death of its 

 President, Samuel Gibson Dixon. The death of ah officer who has 

 been twenty-two years in the service of such an institution inflicts a 

 loss not easily compensated. 



When a man of Dr. Dixon's earnest character, unusual attain- 

 ments and unflagging zeal in every cause which he espoused, is lost 

 to the community, it becomes a public calamity. 



It would be hard to find a man whose services had been of more 

 value to his associates, and to the public generally, than were those 

 of Dr. Dixon. 



► He was unusually well equipped for efficiency by early education. 

 He thus came to the bar, at that time the commanding profession. 

 The influence of an office discipline as well as Law School instruction 

 still existed, and lawyers were truly men of affairs as well as legal 

 advisers and could adapt themselves to all demands made upon them 

 more readily than could men of any other training. 



Having a natural trend of thought and interest in the pursuit of 

 science, he entered the other great learned profession — medicine, 

 after a very thorough preparation. A man in mature life who seeks 

 a new vocation is apt to throw a deeper interest into what he under- 

 takes, as he cannot afford to make another experiment. 



Dr. Dixon's work in his profession and here in The Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, and for many years in his great 

 office, presiding over the Health Department of the State, cannot be 

 properly dealt with in a brief minute. A fitting tribute to his work 

 and memory will be paid at a suitable time. 



To-day we meet to record our deep sense of the loss of an able pre- 

 siding officer, a loyal friend to the institution over which he presided, 

 and a personal colleague whose friendship we all treasured. His col- 

 leagues tender to his family profound sympathy in their bereavement. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



The death of George Barrie, a member, January 4th, was also 

 announced. 



Eruptions of the Costa Rican Volcano Irazu in 1917-18. — Dr. 

 Philip P. Calvert stated that the first and greatest known eruption 

 of Irazu occurred in 1723, from February intermittently to December. 

 A contemporary account by the Spanish Governor of Cartago, 

 Don Diego.de la Haya, exists and has been reprinted several times. 



A recent report by Prof. Tristan refers to eruptions of "smoke" 

 or of vapors seen by visitors to the old craters in 1844, 1847, 1855, 

 1859, 1870, 1880, 1884, 1888, and 1910. 



La Informacion, a daily paper of San Jose, for October 6, 1917, 

 published a despatch from a correspondent who visited the craters 

 of Irazii on the preceding day, in which he stated that they were 

 violently exhaling large columns of steam, rising at times to a height 

 of 70 meters, accompanied by sulphurous odors, rumbling sounds 

 and small volcanic stones. 



This notice led Prof. J. Fidel Tristan, accompanied by Senores 

 Alvaro Fernandez Peralta and Ewald Starke to visit the volcano 

 on October 19 and 20, 1917. A report (that alluded to above) by 

 Prof. Tristan and Senor Ricardo Fernandez Peralta on the observa- 

 tioris made on these days was subsequently published in La Gaceta, 

 Diario Official (Official publication of the Costa Rican Government) , 

 for December 4, 1917. It is accompanied by reproductions of some 

 photographs taken by Prof. Tristan and a plan of the craters in 

 eruption. This report has been reprinted in better form as No. 1, 

 Series A, Puhlicaciones, Colegio de Senoritas, San Jose, 1917. 



Professor Tristan found that craters D, E, G, H, L and M (fol- 

 lowing the designations of Dr. Karl Sapper) were discharging vapor. 

 A fuller series of the October photographs than were included in 

 this report has been sent by Prof. Tristan to the speaker, as well 

 as others taken by Senores Jose Maria Tristan on December 19, 

 1917, and Ricardo Fernandez Peralta on December 20, 1917, in 

 the craters, and telephotographs from San Jose by Prof. Tristan in 

 January, 1918. All these photographs were shown on the screen 

 and the speaker added explanatory remarks based on Prof. Tristan 

 and Senor R. F. Peralta's report, articles from various issues of La 

 Informacion and his own visits to the volcano in 1909 and 1910. 

 The later photographs show the chief discharge as being from crater 

 G. A considerable fall of ash and scoriae was reported as occurring 

 on December 19 and January 6 and 7, reaching on the last date to 

 San Jose. 



Samples of the ash collected in San Jose and forwarded by Mr. 

 J. B. Clark, and of ash from the eruption of Poas, of January, 1910, 

 were exhibited under microscopes. The former is much darker 

 than the latter; Prof. Alfaro, director of the National Museum in 

 San Jose, is quoted in La Informacion of January 8, 1918, as saying 

 that the Irazu ash was produced by decomposition of andesite and 

 contained but little sulphur, while that of Poas was due to calcination 

 of pumice and (when first fallen) contained much sulphuric acid. 



The communication was illustrated by lantern views. 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



Mr. James A. G. Rehn gave an outline of the work of the Southern 

 Arizona Expedition of 1916. (No abstract.) 



Mr. Francis R. Cope was elected a member. 



The following were elected Correspondents: 



George Howard Parker, of Cambridge, Massachusetts; 

 Alfred Goldsborough Mayer, of Tortugas; 

 Charles Richard Van Hise, of Madison, Wisconsin; 

 John Campbell Merriam, of Berkeley, California; 

 John Henry Comstock, of Ithaca, New York; 

 Herbert Spencer Jennings, of Baltimore, Maryland; 

 Frank Rattray Lillie, of Chicago, Rlinois. 



The following were ordered to be printed: 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



THE RECTAL TRACHEATION AND RECTAL RESPIRATION OF THE LARVAE OF 



ODONATA ZYGOPTERA. 



I. RECTAL TRACHEATION OF ARGIA PUTRIDA LARVA. 

 BY ANNA M. CULLEN. 



Argia moesta pidrida Hagen is a Zygopterous dragonfly of wide 

 distribution throughout the eastern United States. Its larvae 

 occur in flowing streams, the material studied having been collected 

 at Cobb's Creek near Beechwood Park, Pennsylvania, May 25, 

 1914. The larva sectioned was killed in hot Gilson (BoUes Lee, 

 Microtomist's Vade Mecum, Third Edition p. 472). It was stained 

 with Delafield's haematoxylin and alcoholic eosin. The rectal 

 tracheation was studied from a series of paraffin sections extending 

 through the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth segments of the larva. 



The alimentary canal in this region will be considered first. At 

 the beginning of the hind gut, in the posterior part of the sixth 

 segment, the epithelium has six deep longitudinal folds. In this 

 region the epithelium is somewhat thin. In the anterior half of 

 the seventh segment the alimentary canal is triangular in section. 

 This triangular appearance is caused by three patches of thickened 

 epithelium, one dorsal in position, the others right ventral and 

 left ventral. Between the three patches of thickened epithelium 

 are small areas of thin pigmented epithelium. Tracheae penetrate 

 the thickened epithelium. No tracheae enter the thin pigmented 

 epithelium. The alimentary canal in the posterior half of the 

 seventh segment and the beginning of the eighth segment is extremely 

 thin-walled. Toward the middle of segment seven the patches of 

 thickened epithelium disappear and the alimentary canal becomes 

 thin-walled and folded. At first the folds have no definite arrange- 

 ment but gradually six definite folds appear, three large ones alter- 

 nating with three smaU ones. The six folds soon become equal in 

 size and using the clock face notation of Tillyard, the folds occupy 

 the positions of 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 of the clock face. Toward 

 the posterior end of segment seven the folds gradually disappear 

 and the alimentary canal is thin-walled, and oval, almost rectangular 

 in outline. This part of the larva contains few of the smaller tracheae, 

 none of which approach the alimentary canal. In the anterior part 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



of segment eight, the longitudinal rectal folds begin to appear in 

 the epithelium. These folds become deeper and extend all through 

 segment eight and part of segment nine. Of the three folds, one is 

 dorsal, one may be called right latero-ventral and the third left 

 1 at ero- ventral (Fig. 1); in spite of their positions, shown in this 

 figure, they appear to correspond to folds 12, 4, and 8 of the clock 

 face. Between the folds there are thin pigmented areas. Toward 

 the posterior end of segment nine and continuing through segment 

 ten, the folds become gradually less pronounced until they form 

 merely three thickened areas of the rectal wall. Between these 

 areas of thickened epithelium, the rectal wall is extremely thin and 

 projects inward as a ridge. Since there are three areas of thickened 

 epithelium, of course there are three of these thin inwardly pro- 

 jecting ridges. All along through segments eight and nine tracheae 

 penetrate the thickened epithelium but no tracheae enter the thin 

 areas. Toward the middle of the ninth segment the thin epithelium 

 between the longitudinal folds becomes spongy. These spongy 

 masses continue through the ninth segment and into the tenth 

 segment. In the latter half of the ninth segment tracheae penetrate 

 these spongy masses. 



Tracheal System. 



There are two great dorsal longitudinal tracheae, called right 

 dorsal trachea, rdt, and left dorsal trachea, kit, and two longitudinal 

 lateral tracheae, rlt and lit. In the anterior part of segment eight 

 (Fig. 2), each lateral trachea gives off a visceral trachea, the right 

 visceral trachea, rvs, and the left visceral trachea, Ivs, respectively. 

 These extend ventrad, mesad and cephalad in the seventh segment. 

 For some distance there is no branching, but when the right visceral 

 trachea and the left visceral trachea change their course somewhat 

 and each takes up a lateral position a little farther forward, each 

 begins to branch. The branches of the right visceral trachea supply 

 the thickened epithelium on the right side of the alimentary canal, 

 divide and subdivide and finally the smallest tracheoles shown in 

 the diagram penetrate the epithelium. In like manner the branches 

 of the left visceral trachea supply the thickened epithelium of the 

 left side of the alimentary canal. The dorsal thickened epithelium 

 is supplied by small tracheae whose origin is from another branch 

 of the left visceral trachea. 



About the middle of the eighth segment each dorsal trachea gives 

 off a branch, the right dorsal rectal trachea, rdrt, and the left dorsal 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



77 



rectal trachea, Idrti, respectively. Each of these runs mesad and 

 caudad and enters the dorsal longitudinal fold of the alimentary 

 canal (Fig. 1). Here these tracheae divide and subdivide, but no 

 anastomosis between the tracheoles of the right dorsal rectal trachea 

 and the left dorsal rectal trachea was found. 



cm 



dv 



Idrti 



llpa 

 Idt 

 drf 



Urti 

 llrj 



cf 



ts 

 vd 

 rdrt 



rdt 



rlpa 



cm 



rlrti 



rlrf 



n 



mt 



mvpa 



Fig. 1. Transverse section of abdomen of larva of ArQia moesta putrida 

 cf near the middle of the 7th segment (TS. 52, row 4, slide 3) seen from its 

 posterior face. Cuticle and hypodermis removed before embedding. Photo- 

 graphed by Mr. H. A. Walters, using Leitz ocular 4, objective 3. Enlaro-ed 

 117 diameter.?. 



cf, connective tissue and fat. 



cm, circular muscles of gut wall. 



drf, dorsal rectal fold. 



dv, dorsal vessel. 



Idrti, left dorsal rectal trachea. 



Idt, left dorsal trachea. 



llpa, left lateral pigmented area. 



llrf, left lateral rectal fold. 



llrti, left lateral rectal trachea. 



mt, Malpighian tubule. 



7nvpa, mid-ventral pigmented area. 



n, nerve. 



r, rectum. 



rdrt, fight dorsal rectal trachea. 



rdt, right dorsal trachea. 



rlpa, right lateral pigmented area. 



rlrf, right lateral rectal fold. 



rlrii, right lateral rectal trachea. 



ts, testis. 



vd, vas deferens. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



Some distance anterior to the origin of the dorsal rectal tracheae 

 there arises, on each side, the right lateral rectal trachea, rlrtu and 

 the left lateral rectal trachea llrti, from the right visceral trachea 

 and left visceral trachea respectively, at a point just mesad of the 

 origin of each visceral trachea from the lateral trachea. The right 

 lateral rectal trachea extends cauclad and sends branches cephalad 

 and caudad which enter the right longitudinal rectal fold. In like 

 manner the left lateral rectal trachea supplies the left longitudinal 

 rectal fold (Fig. 1). 



Toward the end of the ninth segment a dorsal trachea appears, 

 Idrtw This originates from the left median caudal gill trachea, 

 Imcgt, at the end of the ninth segment. It sends a branch caudad 

 which penetrates the rectal epithelium in the anterior part of the 

 tenth segment. Another branch extends cephalad giving off branches 

 and penetrates the rectal epithelium about the middle of the ninth 

 segment. No trachea corresponding to Idrtn, appears on the right 

 side. Toward the end of the ninth segment small trachese are 

 noticed in the spongy masses between the longitudinal folds of the 

 rectum. The trachea in the ventral mass originates from a 

 branch of the left lateral trachea at the hind end of the ninth seg- 

 ment. This little trachea extends mesad and cephalad and disap- 

 pears in the ventral spongy mass about the middle of the ninth 

 segment. The trachea of the left spongy mass originates at the 

 end of the ninth segment from the left dorsal rectal trachea Idrtu. 

 It runs cephalad a very short distance and disappears in the left 

 spongy mass. The trachea of the right spong}^ mass originates 

 at the end of the ninth segment from the right median caudal gill 

 trachea, rmcgt. It extends mesad and cephalad a short distance in 

 the right spongy mass where it disappears. 



At the end of the ninth and the beginning of the tenth segment 

 there is an anastomosis between the right and left lateral longitudinal 

 trachese which meet in the midventral line. Two other trachese 

 also take part in this anastomosis. These are a branch from the 

 right and a branch from the left lateral caudal gill trachese, rcgt 

 and Icgt, respectively. 



"Observation and experiment with carmine particles on living 

 larvae of Argia moesta putrida from the vicinity of Philadelphia 

 showed that a larva watched for two hours may give no sign of 

 rythmic rectal contractions, but that these may suddenly begin 

 and then continue for varying periods. They consisted of sets of 

 three rapidly successive contractions, every third contraction being 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



79 



^^ 1 m c^"t 



9 



s 



rmcgt 



Fig. 2. Diasnim of tracheation of the hind-gut of larva of Argia moesta 

 pidrida, reconstructed from sections. To avoid confusion the trachese are 

 represented as lying farther to right and to left from the gut and from each 

 other than is actually the case (compare Fig. 1). Of the tracheae which supply 

 the gut walls, those which run on the dorsal surface or enter the dorsal longi- 

 tudinal fold are shown in solid lines; those which run on the ventral .surface 

 or enter the lateral folds are shown in broken lines. The tracheae forming 

 the ventral anastomosis are shown by alternating dots and dashes. The Rornan 

 numerals on the left side indicate the anterior ends of the respective abdominal 

 segments, the Arabic numerals on the right the beginning of each row of 

 sections on slide 3 of the series; each row comprises about 60 sections. Abbrevi- 

 ations as in Fig. 1, and as given in the text. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



of longer duration than the other two; 32 such sets per minute were 

 noted. At other times sets of five contractions were noted. In 

 some larvae, but not in all, the beginning of a set of rectal contractions 

 was often synchronous with a slight shortening of the abdomen; 

 the lengthening of the abdomen began before the contractions had 

 ended. A rhythmic shortening and lengthening of the abdomen 

 may perhaps furnish an indication of the existence of rectal con- 

 tractions in an opaque larva. Successive removal of the three 

 caudal gills in one larva was not followed by any immediate beginning 

 of rectal contractions, although such were seen four hours later; 

 the larva was not under continuous observation during all of that 

 time, however." (Calvert, Ent. News, XXVI, pp. 441-2.) 



In the diagram of the rectal tracheation of Thaumatoneura larva 

 figured by Calvert, Plate XVI, Ent. News, Vol. XXVI, there is one 

 area of rectal respiration supplied by the right and left dorsal rectal 

 tracheae and the right and left lateral rectal tracheae. It seems 

 from the structure of Argia putrida larva that there may be two 

 areas of respiration in the alimentary canal walls, a small one in 

 segment seven and a larger respiration area in segments eight and 

 nine. The respiration of the seventh segment may be carried on 

 through the tracheae supplied by the branches of the right and left 

 visceral tracheae. The larger respiration area of segments eight 

 and nine is supplied with tracheae through the branches of the right 

 and left dorsal rectal tracheae and the right and left lateral rectal 

 tracheae. In each case the structure of- the epithelium of the ali- 

 mentary canal appears to be the same. In the seventh segment, 

 the three patches of thickened epithelium supply the surface through 

 which respiration may take place. In the eight and ninth segments, 

 the thickened epithelium of the longitudinal rectal folds supplies 

 the surface through which respiration may take place (Fig. 1). 



At the present time there is considerable doubt in the minds of 

 observers as to the importance of these areas of respiration. When 

 the caudal gills have been removed, the Argia putrida larva continues 

 to live. Respiration may take place all over the surface of the 

 body through the thin body wall. If this is the case, then we may 

 assume that respiration also takes place throughout the length of 

 the hind gut through its wall. The numerous tracheae found 

 penetrating the thickened epithelium can be explained as necessary 

 because respiration is more difficult in these regions owing to the 

 thickness of the walls, hence the many tracheoles penetrating the 

 thickened epithelium. A comparison with the rectal respiration 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



areas of Anisopterid larvae seems to strengthen this view. In the 

 rectal gills of these larvae, the minute branches of the trachess are 

 separated from the water of the rectum by a very thin epithelium. 

 This seems to show that respiration takes place most actively through 

 a thin epithelium. 



II. THE TRACHEAL SUPPLY OF THE RECTUM OF THE LARVA OF 

 ARGIA TAI;AMANCA FROM JUAN VINAS, COSTA RICA. 



BY JANET P, .TAMIESON. 



The rectal epithelium of the water-fall dweller, Argia talamanca, 

 presents three main longitudinal folds, one that is "dorsal and a 

 little to the left of the median plane," a second that is "left latero- 

 ventral" and the third that is "right lateral." These folds (Fig. 1.) 

 correspond in position with those of the water-fall dweller 

 Thaumatoneura described by Calvert {Entomological News, Vol. 

 XXVI, p. 387, and plate XVII, fig. 1.) Those of A. talamanca are, 

 however, deeper as may be seen by comparing photographs of the 

 transverse sections, and show a greater complexity. In some 

 parts of the rectum the free edges of the three folds appear to meet 

 in the center of the lumen of the gut. Between the bases of these 

 primary folds the epithelium thins out and becomes darkly pigmented. 

 From the base of each primary fold, is given off a secondary shallower 

 fold, to the right in the case of the dorsal fold, to the left in the case 

 of the left latero-ventral fold and ventrally in the case of the right 

 lateral fold. 



Toward the hind end of the rectum the secondary folds disappear 

 and the main folds have practically no depth; this gives an almost 

 cylindrical shape to the hind part of the rectum. 



The larva of Argia putrida from the vicinity of Philadelphia, 

 described in the preceding paper by Miss Cullen, differing from 

 A. talamanca in that it lives in streams of continuously flowing water, 

 shows three simple shallow folds in the rectal epithelium, one dorsal, 

 one right lateral and one left lateral. The epithelium is much denser 

 and thicker than in this water-fall dweller of the same genus, and 

 the thin pigmented areas between the bases of the folds are not 

 so broad. 



It has been suggested by Calvert that the more extensive surface 



area afforded by the greater folding of the rectum together with 



the thinner, less dense nature of the epithelium of the water-fall 



dwellers may aid these larvae materially in procuring a supply of 



6 




82 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



oxygen from the rectum that supplements the supply obtained by 

 the gills when the larva is in the water. The caudal gills of A. 

 talamanca are much shorter than those of A. putrida. This suggests 

 that there may be a definite ratio between the shortness of the gills 

 and the complexity of the rectal epithelial folds. This theor^^ is 

 strengthened by the fact that Anisopterous larvse, as described 



dim 

 rdrti 



cf 

 rdt 



rlpa 

 rlrf 



rlrli 

 ml 



vim 

 rlt 



va — 



Fig. 1. Transverse section of abdominal organs of larva of Argia talamanca 



9 near the hind end of the 8th segment (TS. 12 of row 6, slide 2), seen from 



its anterior face. Cuticle and hypodermis removed before embedding, also 



on the left side (right in the figure) the longitudinal muscles. Photographed 



by Mr. H. A. Walters, using Leitz ocular 4, objective 3. Enlarged 85 diameters. 



cf, connective tissue and fat. 

 dim, dorsal longitudinal muscle. 

 drf, dorsal rectal fold. 

 dv, dorsal vessel. 

 Idrti, left dorsal rectal trachea. 

 Idt, left dorsal trachea. 

 llpa, left lateral pigmented area. 

 llrf, left latero-ventral rectal fold. 

 llrt, left lateral rectal trachea. 

 lit, left lateral trachea (lies outside 

 of the field of this figure). 



mt, Malpighian tubule. 



mvpa, mid-ventral pigmented area. 



r, rectum. 



rdrti, right dorsal rectal trachea. 



rlpa, right lateral pigmented area. 



rlrf, right lateral rectal fold. 



rlrti, right lateral rectal trachea. 



rdl, right dorsal trachea. 



rlt, right lateral trachea. 



va, vagina. 



vim, ventral longitudinal muscle. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



by Tillyard (Proceedings of the Linnean Society of New South 

 Wales, 1915, Vol. XL, Part 3, August 25), have a much greater 

 folding of the rectal epithelium and no caudal gills. To quote him: 

 The rectum presents "six longitudinal double rows of lamellate 

 folds." It is within the thicker, unpigmented portion of the rectal 

 epithelium of A. talamanca that the fine ends of the tracheoles 

 which reach the epithelium are embedded. Though the number 

 of these embedded tracheoles is small, numerous tracheae were 

 traced into the folds and almost to the epithelium. This would 

 suggest that diffusion of oxygen takes place more easily through 

 the unpigmented portions of the folds. The secondary folds increase 

 the diffusion area. The fact that no tracheoles were traced through 

 or even up to the pigmented epithelium between the folds suggests 

 that these areas are reserved for the osmosis of carbonic acid gas 

 from the body tissues into the rectum. For says Tillyard, "It 

 is well known . . . that chitin is a colloid substance which 

 admits of the passage through it of gases by cUffusion, and is partic- 

 ularly- partial to carbonic acid gas. " 



The absence of folding of the epithelium at the extreme end of 

 the rectum probably merely facilitates the quick and constant 

 flow of water. 



The rectal trachece.— The tracheae that supply the rectum of A. 

 talamanca have been studied from a series of transverse sections 

 prepared by and in the possession of Dr. Calvert. Owing to the 

 decay of the anterior rectal epithelium some smaller tracheoles 

 may have been lost. 



Two main dorsal longitudinal tracheae have been traced, one 

 on the left (Idt of figs. 1 and 2), the other on the right {i^dt). 



These divide at the posterior end of the ninth segment respectively 

 into the left caudal gill trachea (Icgt) and left median caudal gill 

 trachea (Imcgt) and into the right caudal gill trachea (rcgt) and the 

 right median caudal gill trachea (rmcgt). 



Within the posterior half of segment VIII arise from the longi- 

 tudinal dorsal tracheae, a right dorsal rectal trachea (rdrti) and a 

 left dorsal rectal trachea (Idrti), both of which pass mesad and caudad 

 into the dorsal longitudinal rectal fold where they divide and 

 subdivide. Some of the smaller tracheoles enter the epithelium, 

 but no anastomoses were observed. 



From the lateral tracheae {rlt and lit), which are connected with 

 the dorsal longitudinal trunks in the middle of segment VIII, there 

 come off ventrally in the anterior half of segment VIII, the lateral 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



rmc^t ^ 



Fig. 2. Diagram of the tracheation of the rectum of larva of Argia talaynanca, 

 reconstructed from sections. To avoid confusion the tracheae are represented 

 as lying farther to right and to left from the gut and from each other than is 

 actually the case (compare Fig. 1). Of the trachese which supply the gut walls, 

 those which run on the dorsal surface or enter the dorsal longitudinal fold are 

 shown in solid lines; those which run on the ventral surface or enter the lateral 

 folds are shown in broken lines. The ventral anastomosis is shown in dots and 

 dashes. The Roman numerals on the left side indicate the boundaries of the 

 respective abdominal segments; the larger Arabic numerals on the right, the 

 microscopic slides and the smaller Arabic numerals the rows of sections on each 

 slide of the series corresponding to that part of the diagram represented as at 

 the same horizontal level. Each row comprises about 30 sections. Abbrevia- 

 tions as in Figure 1 and as explained in the text. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



rectal tracheae (rlrti and llrti). Each of these passes mesacl and 

 caudad and enters the lateral longitudinal rectal fold of its respective 

 side. The origin of the right lateral rectal trachea differs slightly 

 from that of Thaumatoneura as worked out by Calvert. Subdivision 

 of these tracheae occurs and some of the tracheoles enter the 

 epithelium. No anastomosis has been found here. A smaller 

 posterior rectal supply (llrtu and rlrtn), is received by the lateral rectal 

 folds from the left and right median caudal gill tracheae respectively. 

 Some of these tracheoles also enter the epithelium, but no anastomosis 

 occurs. 



A small posterior dorsal supply (Idrtn) is received by the dorsal 

 longitudinal fold and by the epithelium from the left median caudal 

 gill trachea. The corresponding (?) group on the right has been 

 traced laterad through and around the muscle fiber mass toward 

 the periphery of the body. 



The last two paragraphs show slight differences between Thaumci' 

 toneura and Argia talamanca. 



Calvert's statement for Thaumatoneura may be quoted here for 

 A. talamanca. "The only anastomosing tracheae which have been 

 discovered are the posterior terminations of the right and left [?] 

 lateral longitudinal tracheae which, assuming a ventral position, 

 meet on the mid-ventral line ventrad of the alimentary canal; in 

 this anastomosis {anas) take part also a branch from the right and 

 a branch from the left [?] lateral caudal gill trachea." The inter- 

 rogation marks signify an incomplete tracing in Argia talamanca 

 due to maceration of parts of the anastomosing tracheae from the 

 left side. 



I think I may say that all the tracheae, large and small, that 

 were traced possessed a black pigment that added materially to the 

 ease of tracing. As has been observed for Thaumatoneura, this 

 pigment presents the same appearance as that of the areas between 

 the three longitudinal folds of the rectal epithelium. 



For material, directions and suggestions in my work I am indebted 

 to Dr. P. P. Calvert, whose treatment of Thaumatoneura I have 

 followed for Argia talamanca. The sections studied were of "larva 

 No. 2," 9, from the "nearer waterfall," Juan Vinas, Costa Rica, 

 March 23-26, 1910, which died in attempted rearing; its condition 

 is, therefore, histologically poor. The locality has been described 

 by Calvert in his Thaumatoneura paper cited. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



III. THE HIND-GUT, ABDOMINAL TRACHEA AND RECTAL RES- 

 PIRATION IN THE LARVA OF MECISTOGASTER 

 MODESTUS FROM COSTA RICA. 



BY MITCHEL CARROLL. 



The abdominal viscera, including the rectum, of Mecistogaster 

 modestus have been described by Calvert (1911 b, p. 452) from a 

 dissection of larva No. 1 (male). 



The slides for the following study were loaned by Dr. Calvert 

 from his personal collection. They contain the serial transverse 

 sections of the last five abdominal segments and bases of the median 

 and right caudal gills of female larva No. 3. This larva was one of 

 those obtained by Dr. Calvert from the water collected between 

 the bases of the leaves of a Bromeliad at Juan Vifias, Costa Rica, 

 April 26, 1910 (1911 a, pp. 407-408). It was killed in hot water 

 and preserved in alcohol. Before sectioning the chitinous cuticle 

 was removed from the abdominal segments. The stains used 

 were Delafield's haematoxylin and alcoholic eosin. The sections 

 were cut .015 mm. thick. 



The Hind-Gut. 



The hind-gut may be divided into six distinct parts. A brief 

 description of these divisions is given below. 



The Malpighian tubes are attached to the gut at the junction of 

 segments VI and VII., (Calvert, 1911 h, Plate XVII, Fig. 8). From 

 this point caudad to section 35 there are twelve longitudinal folds 

 in the epithelium lining the lumen of the gut. The position of these, 

 adopting the "Clock Face Notation" of Tillyard (1916, p. 132), 

 is 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12, where the larger figures indicate 

 longer folds, the small figures shorter folds (Fig. 1 of sect. 20). 



All the figures accompanying this paper are of the larva of Mecistogaster 

 modestus Selys. 



The photographs reproduced in Figures 1-5, were made by Mr. H. A. Walters, 

 using Leitz ocular 4, objective 3. They represent the posterior surfaces of the 

 several sections. 



Fig. 1. Part of photograph of transverse section 20 (Short Intestine). 

 Enlarged 142 diameters. 



b, basement membrane. Im, bands of longitudinal muscle. 



cm, circular muscle coat of the gut. mt, Malpighian tubule. 



dim, dorsal longitudinal muscle. nc, nerve cord. 



dv, dorsal vessel. pe, pigmented epithelium. 



e, epithelial layer. rad, radial muscle strands. 



/, longitudinal epithelial fold project- ret, reticulate connective tissue. 



ing caudad into a pouch (Fig. 3). vim, ventral longitudinal muscle. 

 i, chitinous intima. 



Tracheae as in Figure 6. 



Fig. 2. Part of photograph of transverse section 55 (Prerectal Ampulla). 

 Enlarged 100 diameters. Abbreviations as in Figure 1. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



cm dv h 



87 



dim 



Idt 



lit 



Ivs 



vim 



nc 



rdl 



ret 



mt 



e 

 mt 



i 



TVS 



dim 



Idl 



ret 



Im 

 lit 



ml 



ll'S 



ret 

 vim 



"Xl 







^-^i 





.VI < t 







>^r>.W' 





rdl 

 cm 



b 

 rlt 



rvs 



Im 



nc 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



This part of the hind-gut, from about section 1 to section 35, 

 anterior part of segment VII (Fig. 6), seems to be homologous with 

 the ileum or small intestine of the Orthoptera (Minot, 1880, pp. 

 209, 217; Packard, 1898, pp. 316, 317; Bordas, 1898, pp. 48 and 52), 

 and with the small intestine of Anisopterous larvae (Sadones, 1895, 

 pp. 277, 279, 291; Faussek, 1887, p. 708; Tillyard, 1916, p. 131). 

 In his recent book on the Dragonflies (Tillyard, 1917, pp. 101, 113, 

 114) Tillyard calls this division of the hind-gut the short intestine; 

 but there is present here no ventral pad of thick columnar epithelium 

 as described by that author and Sadones. In Fig. 1 of sect. 20, we 

 have from within outward: the chitinous intima, ?"; the epithelial 

 layer, e; the basement membrane, 6; and the circular muscular 

 coat, cm. The cells of the epithelial layer are not all of the same 

 size. The largest are those of the apical portions of the longer 

 folds. Here the cells are elongate and, in the transverse sections 

 of the ileum, appear somewhat wedge-shaped, with the bases of the 

 wedges next the intima. In the shorter folds, and in the furrows 

 between the folds, the cells are much flatter. The basement 

 membrane follows the folds of the epithelium mesad, leaving, as a 

 result, triedral spaces between itself and the circular muscle coat; 

 these spaces are filled with blood. 



Just posterior to section 20 (Fig. 1 and 6, row 4 of slide 1), three 

 (Nos. 4, 8, and 12) of the above six large folds gradually broaden 

 out, become flatter, and transform into the three broad longitudinal 

 bands of thick columnar epithelium seen at section 55 (Fig. 2, row 

 5 of slide 1). The other nine folds, i. 2. 3 — 5. 6. 7 — 3. 10. n, 

 consisting of the epithelium mentioned in the preceding paragraph, 

 are also present at this point. Figure 2 represents the appearance 

 of the hind-gut between sections 35 and 80. It is probably homolo- 

 gous with the prerectal ampulla of some Orthoptera (Bordas, 1898, 

 pp. 52, 48) and of Anisopterous larviB (Sadones, 1895, pp. 280, 295; 

 Tillyard, 1916, Plate 31). Sadones describes two broad bands of 

 thick epithelium separated from one another by folds of a different 

 kind of thin epithelium, in the prerectal ampulla of the larva of 

 LiheUula depressa. Tillyard's description of this section of the gut 

 agrees with that of Sadones (Tillyard, 1917, pp. 101, 113, 114). 

 The diameter of the gut, too, is here greater than in the parts of the 

 digestive tube immediately preceding and following. But both 

 Sadones and Faussek (1887, pp. 708, 709) state that two kinds of 

 epithelia also occur in the ileum of Anisopterous larvse. Faussek, 

 indeed, does not mention the occurrence of a prerectal ampulla in 

 Aeschnid larvse. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



Whatever be the true homology of this portion of the gut, it is 

 clearly differentiated from the preceding and following divisions of 

 the alimentary canal by the presence of the three bands of thick 

 columnar epithelium. Histologically this columnar epithelium 

 appears similar to the longitudinal folds of columnar epithelium 

 found further caudad, in the rectal part of the hind-gut. The three 

 bands of columnar epithelium referred to in this, and the preceding 

 paragraph, extend from about section 35 or 40 to section 8 J (Fig. 6), 

 that is, through about the middle third or fourth of segment VII. 

 In Fig. 2, in addition to the parts already discussed, we see the 

 intima, i, basement membrane, 6, circular muscular coat, cm, and 

 the bands of longitudinal muscle, Im. There are six of the latter, 

 but they are not all visible in the photograph. They are located 

 outside the circular muscles, near the bases of the folds, 1, 3, 5, 7, 

 9, 11. The musculature of the posterior intestine of Mecistogaster 

 seems to be similar to that of the insects described by the authors 

 mentioned in this paper. 



Caudad to section 80 the gut narrows and the three bands of 

 columnar epithelium gradually assume again the appearance they 

 had cephalad to section 35. That is, the epithelium of these folds 

 becomes indistinguishable histologically from that of the other 

 folds. Indeed, in transverse section, the gut has much the same 

 appearance posterior to section 80 that it has anterior to section 35 

 (Fig. 1). This portion of the gut, from about section 80 to section 

 140 (Fig. 6), may correspond to the colon of some Orthoptera 

 (Minot, 1880, pp. 209, 217). Or (which is unlikely), if the portion 

 of the digestive tube immediately following this, instead of the one 

 immediately preceding, is homologous with the prerectal ampulla 

 of Anisopterous larvae (Sadones, pp. 280, 295), this is homologous 

 with the small intestine of Anisopterous larvse (Sadones, p. 279; 

 Tillyard, p. 131; Faussek, pp. 708, 709). 



At section 110 (Fig. 6), posterior part of segment VII, there are 

 six large folds (Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12), which practically fill the 

 lumen of the gut. 



At section 140 the above folds have decreased in size and the gut 

 has become pouched. This pouching increases greatly the diameter 

 of the lumen so that from sections 150 to 160 (Fig. 3 of sec. 150) it 

 is relatively very wide. The longitudinal epithelial folds project 

 caudad into these pouches for some distance. It may be that this 

 pouched portion of the intestine is homologous with the prerectal 

 ampulla of some Orthoptera (Bordas, 1898, pp. 48, 52) and Ani- 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



sopterous larvae (Sadones, 1895, pp. 280, 295; Tillyard, 1916, p. 131 

 and 1917, pp. 101, 113, 114), but the character of the epithelium 

 does not correspond to that described by Tillyard and Sadones. 

 The latter describes and figures two lateral plates of thick epithelium 

 separated from one another by numerous folds of thin epithelium. 

 In this portion of the Mecistogaster intestine there is only one kind 

 of epithelium. In the larva under discussion it is not very well 

 preserved, but seems to be similar to that already described as 

 cccurring in the first and third divisions of the hind-gut. Then, 

 too, there is no narrowing or constriction of the intestine posterior 

 to this pouched or csecal region as in the other insects mentioned 

 above; the pouched region passes without any very apparent change 

 in diameter into the rectum. 



In the diagram (Fig. 6), the gut between sections 50 and 80 (the 

 part which, as has been suggested, is probably homologous with the 

 prerectal ampulla of other insects) is seen to be supplied with branches 

 from the left and right visceral tracheae (Ivs, rvs). Some of these 

 tracheoles end just within and some, just without, the basement 

 membrane of the large columnar cells of the three broad folds (4, 

 8 and 12) or bands referred to above. The mid-dorsal (12) and the 

 left ventro-lateral (8) folds are supplied by tracheoles from the left 

 visceral trachea (Ivs); the right ventro-lateral fold (4) is supplied 

 by branches from the right visceral trachea (rvs). No tracheoles 

 have been found penetrating any of the other folds of the gut 

 epithelium thus far mentioned. 



The next, or fifth, division of the posterior intestine is the rectum 

 proper. (Minot, 1880, pp. 209, 210, 218; Packard, p. 318; Tillyard, 

 1916, pp. 131, 140-189 and 1917, pp. 101, 114, 115, 116; Sadones, 

 1895, pp. 277, 280, 294-315; Faussek, 1887, pp. 708-711; Bordas, 

 1898, pp. 48, 52.) In Anisopterous larvae it is this region which 

 functions as the branchial basket (Tillyard). In Mecistogaster there 

 is, of course, nothing corresponding to a branchial basket. The 

 so-called rectal glands, which Tillyard (1916, pp. 179-189) has 

 shown to be homologous with the rectal gills, are represented by 

 thr^e broad longitudinal folds of thick columnar epithelium (Fig. 

 4 of sect. 250), instead of six as in Anisopterous larvae. These 

 folds occupy the same relative positions (Nos. 4, 8 and 12, of the 



Fig. 3. Part of photograph of transverse section 150 (Pouched Part of the 

 Rectum). Enlarged 115 diameters. Abbreviations as in Figure 1. 



Fig. 4. Part of photograph of transverse section 250 (Rectum). Enlarged 

 114 diameters. Abbreviations as in Figure 1. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



91 



X 





rdl 



lit 



Ivs 





m'-Lm 



rll 

 mt 



ret 



Idrti K^ 



Idt 



cm 



pe 



vim 



ret 



- rdt 



rlrti 



mt 



~ vim 



III 



nc 



rll 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



"Clock Face Notation") as the three folds of columnar epithelium 

 seen from sections 40 to 80 (Figs. 6 and 2). Histologically, too, 

 the epithelia of the folds 4, 8 and 12 of these two portions of the 

 gut appear similar. These folds have been described by Calvert in 

 the larva of this species (1911 b, p. 452, Plate XVII, Fig. 10). 



The rectum extends from about section 160 to section 380 (Fig. 6), 

 that is, through nearly all of segment VIII, all of segment IX, and 

 the anterior fourth of segment X. Figure 4 represents the appear- 

 ance of the rectum from section 200 to section 300. From within 

 outward can be seen: the chitinous intima, ?'; the folds of columnar 

 epithelium, e; the basement membrane, b; the non-continuous 

 circular muscular coat, cm; and the longitudinal strands of muscle, 

 Im. (These last are located at the positions 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, of the 

 clock face notation, but do not stand out very clearly in the photo- 

 graph). Spaces between the basement membrane and the circular 

 muscle coat are filled with blood, and Malj^ighian tubules also 

 extend into them, e.g., in TS. 315, 319, 324, 327, 342, etc. In this 

 part of the rectum almost the entire lining of the gut consists of the 

 epithelium of the three longitudinal folds. The latter are, however, 

 separated by three small pigmented areas (Fig. 4). These are the 

 "non-cellular" bands described by Calvert in larva No. 1, (1911 b, 

 p. 452, Plate XVII, Fig. 10). I have examined the original slide 

 containing the rectum of larva No. 1 and found no trace of cells or 

 nuclei in these three areas. In Fig. 4, one of these pigmented bands 

 (mvpa) is seen to be midventral, the other two (rlpa and llpa) are 

 dorso-lateral in position. At section 320, where the longitudinal 

 folds 2, 6, 10 begin to appear in the pigmented bands, the cellular 

 nature of these areas becomes somewhat more apparent. (Compare 

 Cullen, 1918, fig. 1, and Jamieson, 1918, fig. 1.) 



Mecistogaster larva No. 1, described by Calvert, was older than 

 No. 3, the subject of this paper. Whether the age of the larva has 

 anything to do with the presence or absence of epithelial cells in the 

 pigmented rectal bands I am unable to say. It does not seem likely 

 that it is a matter of fixation as larvae No. 1, 2, and 3 were all fixed 

 in the same way (hot water) and at the same time. 



The three broad folds of the rectal epithelium and the three small 

 pigmented areas mentioned in the two preceding paragraphs are 

 homologous with similar folds and areas in the rectum of Thauma- 

 toneura (Calvert, 1915, p. 387) and Argia (Cullen, 1918, p. 77, Fig. 1). 

 The folds are, however, much shallower than in Thaumatoneura (Cal- 

 vert, 1915, Plate XVII, Fig. 1) and Argia talamanca (Jamieson, 1918, 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



p. 82, Fig. 1). They resemble more the folds seen in Argia moesta 

 putrida (Cullen, I.e.) The epithelium, too, is much thicker (41 to 83 m) 

 in Mecistogaster modestus than in the first two larvae named above, 

 resembling more Argia moesta putrida in this respect also. But on 

 slide 7 of Thaumatoneura larva No. 7 (female, Dr. Calvert's parsonal 

 collection), I found sections where the epithelium of the rectal folds 

 was about as thick (50 or 60 m) as that of the corresponding region 

 in Meeistogaster.^ 



About section 310 (Fig. 6) the three folds (4, 8, 12) of thick 

 columnar epithelium begin to occupy less, and the pigmented areas 

 separating them more, of the gut wall. At section 370 the folds 

 (or rather bands, for they are no longer folds) of columnar 

 epithelium have contracted so as to form only about half of the gut 

 wall. The epithelium of these bands has, however, become much 

 thicker (83/>-) than further cephalad. Between these bands are 

 seen three folds (Nos. 2, 6 and 10) of spongy or reticulate connective 

 tissue covered on the lumen side by the more or less broken down 

 epithelium of the pigmented areas mentioned above. While spaces 

 filled with blood and an occasional jMalpighian tubule exist between 

 the basement membrane of folds 4, 8 and 12 and the circular muscle 

 coat, the circular muscle fibres are in contact with the spongy tissue 

 of folds 2, 6 and 10. 



Folds of spongy tissue, homologous to those in Mecistogaster, 

 occur in the rectum of Thaumatoneura larva. On slide 7 of Thauma- 

 toneura larva No. 7, female, (Dr. Calvert's collection), there are 

 three such folds of reticulate tissue covered by a pigmented 

 epithelium. 



About section 373 (Fig. 6) some of the spongy tissue extends 

 out into the hsemocoele. 



From section 383 (Fig. 6), anterior part of segment X, caudad 

 to the end of the gut no more is seen of the large columnar cells of 

 the longitudinal folds. This region, from about section 380 to the 

 end of the gut, corresponds to the vestibule or anal part of the 

 rectum of Anisopterous larvae (Sadones, 1895, pp. 277, 280, 315; 

 Tillyard, 1916, p. 131 and 1917, pp. 101, 114, 115, 116; Faussek, 

 1887, p. 45). But there are not two kinds of epithelia as described 

 by Sadones for Libellula depressa, nor is there any indication of a 



(^ As the larvae of Thaumatoneura and of Argia talamanca figured in the 

 papers above cited were unavoidably those which died in attempted rearing, 

 it is perhaps not impossible that the thinness of their epithelia may be a 

 starvation effect. — P. P. Calvert.) 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



stratification of the epithelium as mentioned by that author (Sadones, 

 Fig. 49) . The epitheUum covering the six longitudinal folds, although 

 it is not as well preserved in this region as one would wish, seems 

 to consist of a single layer of elongate cells. These, except for 

 the presence of more pigment, are similar to those described for 

 the folds of the first part of the hind-gut. The musculature of 

 the anal part of the Mecistogaster intestine is homologous, as is 

 pointed out below, to the musculature of the corresponding region 

 in Anisopterous larvae. 



Imcgt rmcgt ret 



dim, — , 



Icgt 



e 



rad 



e 

 ret 



rcgt 



rad 

 vim 



lit 



rlt 



Fig. 5. Part of photograph of transverse section 393 (Anal Part, or 

 Vestibule, of the Rectum). Enlarged 125 diameters. Abbreviations as in 

 Figure 1. 



Figure 5 is a photograph of section 393. It illustrates the 

 appearance of this sixth and last division of the hind-gut. In 

 section 393 the following parts can be made out: intima, i; pigmented 

 epithelium of the six longitudinal folds, e (the epithelium of folds 

 2, 6 and 10 is continuous with the more or less disintegrated epithe- 

 lium of the pigmented areas of the preceding division of the gut) ; 

 basement membrane, 6; reticulate connective tissue, ret; circular 

 muscle layer, an; and the radial muscle strands, rad. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



Summary of the Divisions of the Hind-Gut, with Homologies. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



There are six of the radial muscle strands. They connect with 

 the rectum at the points 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, of the clock notation as 

 described by Tillyard. Radiating outward they are attached at 

 their peripheral ends to the body wall. They correspond to the 

 radial rectal dilator muscles of Anisopterous larvae (Tillyard, 1916, 

 pp. 139, 140; Sadones, 1895, p. 316). 



As indicated in the above table, Tillyard in his recent excellent 

 book, The Biology of Dragonflies (1917, pp. 101, 113, 114, 115, 

 116), divides the hind-gut of Odonate larvae into two main parts, 

 the small intestine or ileum and the rectum. The small intestine 

 is subdivided into the short intestine and prerectal ampulla. The 

 first two divisions of the hind-gut in the present larva are evidentlj^ 

 homologous with these two parts. But histologically the structure 

 of this part of the intestine in Mecistogaster differs from the descrip- 

 tion given by Tillyard or the other authors mentioned above. The 

 third division of the small intestine, which is called the colon in the 

 table, is not described by Tillyard. 



Tillyard's statement (1917, footnote, p. 101) that ''in Zygopterid 

 larvae the rectum is undivided," is hardly true for Mecistogaster. 

 In the present larva, as indicated in the above table and described 

 on preceding pages, the rectum (as the term is used by Tillyard) 

 is divided into three distinct regions. These differ from one another 

 both in gross morphology and finer histological structure. 



The Trachea (Fig. 6). 



In the diagram (Fig. 6), in order to represent more clearly the 

 main trunks with their branches, most of the tracheae have been 

 drawn far laterad to their true position. The correct orientation 

 may be obtained by referring to the photographs of the transverse 

 sections (Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5). The diameters of the tracheae and 

 gut have been drawn on a scale twice as great as their length. A 

 glance at Fig. 4, of section 250, shows that the rectum is slightly 

 asymmetrical with respect to the epithelial folds of the gut wall. 

 By comparing the mid-dorsal fold (No. 12) with the same fold in 

 Thaumatoneura larva (Calvert, 1915, Plate XVII) it was possible 

 to determine the true right and left sides. The latter are correctly 

 represented in the diagram. Fig. 6, showing the distribution of the 

 abdominal tracheae as seen from the dorsal side. 



From the anterior part of segment VII (Fig. 6) the two great 

 dorsal longitudinal trunks {rdt, Idt) run caudad, dorso-lateral to the 

 gut, as far as sections 40 and 60 respectively. At these points 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



transverse connectives (die) are given off to the lateral longitudinal 

 tracheae (lit, rlt). From about sections 95 to 130 the dorsal trunks 

 are almost in contact with one another and lie dorsal to the gut. 

 At about section 170 on the right, and 180 on the left, two more 

 transverse connectives (die) connect the dorsal and lateral 

 longitudinal trunks. At section 190 the dorsal tracheae have moved 

 out laterally and are entirely lateral at section 240 (Fig. 4 of section 

 250, kit and rdt), where they lie on opposite sides of the gut. The 

 anterior or chief left (Idrti) and right (rdrti) dorsal rectal tracheae 

 are given off from the dorsal longitudinal trunks about section 250, 

 posterior part of segment VIII. These dorsal rectal tracheae run 

 mesad and supply the cokminar epithelium of the dorsal rectal 

 longitudinal fold (No. 12), (Figs. 4, and 6, Idrti and rdrti). By 

 the time they have reached section 260, posterior end of segment 



VIII, the dorsal trunks are really ventro-lateral in position with 

 respect to the gut. At section 320 they are again dorso-lateral in 

 position, and at section 328, caudad to the middle of segment IX, 

 they divide into the median (Imegt, rnicgt) and lateral (Icgt, rcgt) 

 caudal gill tracheae (Figs. 5 and 6). The lateral gill tracheae pass 

 to the ventral side of the gut and thence into the lateral gills. 



From the left median caudal gill trachea (Imcgt) small branches 

 (Idrtn) are given off to the dorsal rectal fold at section 345, segment 



IX, and section 362, segment X. About section 352 a small branch 

 (llrtn) is given off to the left ventro-lateral rectal fold. 



From the right median caudal gill trachea (rnicgt) a branch (rlrtn) 

 is given off to the right ventro-lateral rectal fold at section 356. 

 Two other small branches whose course could not be followed, are 

 also given off at about this point. 



In the anterior part of segment VII the lateral longitudinal tracheae 

 (lit, rlt) lie on opposite sides of the gut, beneath the dorsal trunks 

 (Figs. 1 and 6). They remain lateral in position as far as section 

 180, anterior part of segment VIII. A little caudad to this they pass 

 between the hypodermis and the ventro-lateral muscle masses 

 to the ventral side of the abdomen. They run thence caudad 

 beneath the gut (Figs. 6 and 4, lit, rlt), but never in contact with 

 it and giving off no branches to it, to section 373, segment X. Here 

 the right lateral longitudinal trachea (rlt) passes over to the left 

 side and joins (section 388) the left lateral longitudinal trachea 

 (lit), forming an anastomosis (arias); separating again almost immedi- 

 ately after (section 391, Fig. 5), they join respectively tracheae 

 rcgt and Icgt. 

 7 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[March, 



Closed spiracles (Fig. 6, Sp. 7) connect with the lateral longitudinal 

 tracheae (rlt, lit) at sections 45-49 and 60, segment VII, where the 

 dorsal lateral connectives (die) are given off to the dorsal longitudinal 

 trunks {kit, rdt). There are closed spiracles {Sp. 8) also at the 

 corresponding points on the lateral tracheae in segment VIII, 

 sections 165 and 171. But in addition to the dorsal lateral con- 

 nectives, there originate here the tracheae which bifurcate at about 

 section 190 to form the right {rvs) and left {Ivs) visceral tracheae, 

 and the right (rlrti) and left {Urti) lateral rectal tracheae. The 

 latter may be considered as prolongations caudad of the visceral 

 tracheae (Figs. 6 and 4). 



The left visceral trachea {Ivs), as shown in Fig. 6, runs cephalad 

 as far as section 1, anterior end of segment VII. Between sections 

 190 and 155 it lies ventrad to, but not in contact with the gut (Fig. 

 3, Ivs); anterior to section 155 it assumes a lateral position (Fig. 1). 

 At section 120 the main trachea divides into three branches. One 

 of these supplies the left ventro-lateral fold (No. 8) of columnar 

 epithelium (Sect. 60). The third branch runs forward to the 



Fig. 6. Diagram of the hind-gut and rectal tracheae. The abdominal 

 segments are numbered in Roman numerals on the left side of the figure, the 

 microtome sections are numbered in Arabic on the right. The sections are 

 numbered in order (1-420) beginning at the anterior end of the hind-gut (anterior 

 end of segment VII) and proceeding caudad to the posterior end of segment X. 

 The short horizontal lines immediately above the Roman numerals indicate 

 the approximate boundaries of the segments. The meanings of the abbrevia- 

 tions designating the tracheae are given below. 



Those portions of the lateral longitudinal tracheae which lie ventrad to 

 the gut are represented by lines of alternating dots and dashes, thus .-.-.-.-.-. 

 This has been done to distinguish them from the tracheoles which either run 

 along, or pass into the ventral rectal walls, and are represented by broken lines, 



thus . The tracheoles which run along or pass into the dorsal rectal 



wall are represented by solid lines. 



Abbreviations. 



anas, anastomosis. 



die, transverse tracheae connecting the 



dorsal and lateral longitudinal 



tracheae. 

 Icgt, left caudal gill trachea. 

 /c///i, anterior or chief left dorsal rectal 



trachea. 

 Idrln, posterior or secondary left dorsal 



rectal trachea. 

 Idt, left dorsal longitudinal trachea. 

 lit, left lateral longitudinal trachea. 

 llrti, anterior or chief left lateral rectal 



trachea. 

 llrtu, posterior or secondary left lateral 



rectal trachea. 

 Imcgt, left median caudal gill trachea. 

 Irs, left visceral trachea. 



r, rectum. 



rcgt, right caudal gill trachea. 



rdrti, anterior or chief right dorsal rectal 

 trachea. 



rdt, right dorsal trachea. 



rlrti, anterior or chief right lateral rec- 

 tal trachea. 



rlrtn, posterior or secondary right lat- 

 eral rectal trachea. 



rlt, right lateral trachea. 



rtncgt, right median caudal gill trachea. 



rvs, right visceral trachea. 



sp7, unopened spiracle of the 7th ab- 

 dominal segment. 



sp8, unopened spiracle of the 8th ab- 

 dominal segment. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



rrncgt 

 rcgt 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



junction of the Malpighian tubes with the gut where it breaks up 

 into small tracheoles ramifying among these tubes and about the 

 circular muscular coat of the gut. 



The distribution of the right visceral trachea (I'vs) and its branches 

 is similar to that of the left; except that, while it gives off tracheoles 

 to the right ventro-lateral fold (No. 4) of the intestinal epithelium, 

 it gives off none to the dorsal fold. 



The left lateral rectal trachea (llrfi) and the right lateral rectal 

 trachea (rlrti) give off tracheoles respectively, to the left ventro- 

 lateral rectal longitudinal fold (No. 8) and the right ventro-lateral 

 rectal longitudinal fold (No. 4), (Figs. 6 and 4). 



It will be seen that, in the main, the abdominal tracheal system 

 of this Mecistogaster larva is similar to that described by Calvert 

 for Thaumatonetira (1915, Plate XVI, and pp. 388, 389) and by Cullen 

 and by Jamieson for Argia (1918, pp. 77, 79, figs. 1, 2; pp. 82, 84, figs. 

 1,2). For convenience in comparison I have used the same nomen- 

 clature and abbreviations as employed by those authors. 



Rectal Respiration. 



A glance at Figure 6, shows that the tracheole supply of the 

 hind-gut is not rich, and is limited to those portions of the latter 

 which have been described as having longitudinal folds of thick 

 columnar epithelium. All of the tracheoles have been traced, as 

 far as possible, to their terminations. Owing to the fact that cell 

 boundaries in the intestinal epithelium are indistinct, it could not 

 be absolutely determined if any tracheoles terminate inside cells. 

 Usually the twigs appear to end just within the basement membrane 

 of the columnar epithelium of the rectal folds; so seem to end, for 

 instance, the twigs seen between sections 300 and 320. Sometimes, 

 like the terminations of llrti (sections 320 to 340) and the caudal 

 branch of rdrti (sections 260-280). the twigs seem to end outside 

 the basement membrane. Sometimes, as in the twigs running 

 cephalad from llrti and rlrti in sections 178 to 200, the terminations 

 may possibly be within the cells. Others may pass between the 

 cells. But one fact is clearly evident and seems to be significant: 

 all the tracheal twigs end on the basement membrane side of the 

 thick columnar epithelium. The tracheoles are at all points separated 

 from the lumen of the gut by the thickness (41 to 83 micra) of the 

 columnar epithelium. 



Furthermore, the columnar epithelium is the only part of the 

 internal rectal wall which has a tracheal supply. No twigs to the 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



pigmented areas between these folds could be found. The extensive 

 folds of spongy or reticulate tissue, covered on the inside by a thinner 

 epithelium, and extending from about the middle of segment IX to 

 the end of segment X, also seem destitute of tracheoles. 



In view of the above facts it seems improbable that any diffusion 

 takes place between gases in the rectal tracheoles and those in the 

 water in the rectum. This conclusion is strengthened if the position 

 of the rectal tracheal twigs in Mecistogaster is contrasted with the 

 position of the tracheal gill capillaries in Anisopterous larvae, where 

 diffusion of oxygen is known to take place. The gill capillaries 

 in Anisopterous larvae (Tillyard, 1915, p. 425, Figs. 3 and 5; also 

 1916) lie "in a thin layer of very flattened cells," the gill epithelium. 

 They lie, too, "fairly close up" to the chitinous cuticle of the gill. 

 They are very numerous, excessively fine, and each forms a complete 

 loop. In Mecistogaster the tracheal twigs are separated from the 

 chitinous lining of the gut lumen by a thick epithelium, they are 

 not excessively fine, do not form loops, and are not numerous. 

 They are absent, except for one small area (sections 60 to 80), in 

 segment VII, in which, together with segment VIII, lies the gill 

 basket of Anisopterous larvae (Tillyard, 1916, p. 139). 



Nevertheless, there must be other means of respiration in 

 Zygopterid larvae than that through the caudal gills. Calvert 

 (1911 b, p. 455) found in Mecistogaster modestus, "as in most, perhaps 

 all, Zygopterous larvae, the caudal gills may be lost without inter- 

 fering with growth, development and transformation." Mr. Bodine 

 (1918), has recently succeeded in keeping Zygopterid larvae, from 

 which the gills had been removed, alive for three and four days 

 when confined at the bottom of a Mason jar filled with stagnant 

 water. 



If we exclude respiration through the integument, the only 

 alternative seems to be some sort of rectal respiration. In support 

 of the latter we have Calvert's observations on living larvae of 

 Calopteryx maculata, Hetaerina americana, and Argia moesta putrida 

 (Calvert, 1915, pp. 437-442). He found regular rhythmic pulsa- 

 tions of the rectum, with inhalations and expirations of water, in 

 these forms may be carried on for long periods. Tillyard (1916, 

 pp. 410-413) found regular rectal pulsations in newly hatched 

 larvae of Austrolestes leda up until they were half an hour or more 

 old, when the movements became intermittent. 



If rectal respiration occurs in the larvae of Mecistogaster modestus 

 the only areas which seem morphologically suitable for an exchange 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



of gases are the longitudinal folds of spongy or reticulate tissue. 

 In this connection it may, or may not, be worth noting that 

 Calvert (1911 h, p. 453 and Plate XVII), in dissecting Mecistogaster 

 larva No. 1, found, "when the viscus was first opened the three 

 non-cellular bands [folds of spongy tissue just referred to] had the 

 shiny, silvery appearance which suggests enclosed air." But, 

 since these areas either lack entirely or have a very scanty tracheal 

 supply, the oxygen would have to be taken up and carried by the 

 blood.^ 



We are not able to correlate any peculiarity of the tracheation 

 of the larva of Mecistogaster modestus with its habit of living in the 

 water between the leaf-bases of epiphytic bromeliads (Calvert, 

 1911 a). 



In the study of these slides and in the preparation of the manu- 

 script I am indebted to Dr. Calvert for suggestions, directions, and 

 corrections. 



Literature Cited. 



(For a more complete bibliography on the respiratory organs and the 

 physiology of respiration of Zygopterous Odonate larvae see Calvert, Ent. News, 

 Vol. XXVI, p. 444). 



BoDiNE, J. H. — 1918. Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal 

 Respiration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera. IV. Experimental Results 

 in Ischnura and Enallagma. Proceedings Academy of Natural Sciences of 

 Philadelphia, LXX, pp. 103-113. 



BoRDAS, L. — 1898. Appareil Digestif des Orthopteres. Ann. des Sc. Nat., 

 Zoo. VIII, 5. 



Calvert, P. P. — ^1911, a. The Habits of the Plant-dwelling Larva of 

 Mecistogaster modestus. Ent. News, Vol. XXII, pp. 402-411. 



— 1911, b. Structure and Transformation of the Larva of Mecistogaster 

 modestus. Ent. News, Vol. XXII, pp. 449-460. 



— 1915. Internal Organs of Thaumatoneura Larva and the Respiration 

 and Rectal Tracheation of Zygopterous Larvae in General. Ent. News, Vol. 

 XXVI, pp. 385-395, Nov.; pp. 435-447, Dec. 



CuLLEN, A. M. — 1918. Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal 

 Respiration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera. I. Rectal Tracheation of 

 Argia putrida larva. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., LXX, pp. 7.5-81. 



Faussek, V. — 1887. Histologie des Darmkanals der Insekten. Zeit. f. 

 wissench. Zool., 45. 



Jamieson, J. P. — 1918. Papers on the Rectal Tracheation and Rectal Res- 

 piration of the Larvae of Odonata Zygoptera. II. The Tracheal Supply of the 

 Rectum of the larva of Argia talamanca from Juan Vinas, Costa Rica. Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., LXX, pp. 81-85. 



MiNOT, C. S. — 1880. Histology of the Locust (Caloptenus) and the 

 Cricket (Anabrus). Second Rept. U. S. Ent. Comm., pp. 183-222. 



2 Tillyard suggests (1917, p. 116) that in Zygopterid larvae the rectal pads 

 (glands or folds) act as blood-gills, liberating carbonic acid gas from the blood 

 into the rectal water supply, by diffusion, and receiving air in exchange. This 

 hardly seems likely. The blood is separated from the water in the rectum by 

 the basement membrane, the thick (41 to 83 micra) columnar epithehum and 

 the chitinous intima. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



Packard, A. S.— 1898. A Text-book of Entomology. 



Sadones, J. — 1895. L'Appareil Digestif et Respiratoire Larvaire des 

 Odonates. La Cellule, Tome XI. 



TiLLYARD, R. J.— 1915. On the Physiology of the Rectal Gills in the 

 Larvae of Anisopterid Dragonflies. Proc. of Linn. Soo. of N. S. Wales, Vol. 

 XL, Part 3, Aug. 25th. 



— 1916. A Study of the Rectal Breathing Apparatus in the Larvae of 

 Anisopterid Dragonflies. Journ. Linn. Soc. London, Zool. Vol. XXXIII. 

 November. 



— 1917. The Biology of Dragonflies. Cambridge Zoological Series, Cam- 

 bridge, University Press. 



IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS IN ISCHNURA AND ENALLAGMA. 



BY JOSEPH HALL BODINE. 



(The following paper was written out by Mr. Bodine in nearly the form 

 here presented. Owing to his having entered the war service of the United 

 States, it is unlikely that he will be able to continue these researches for many 

 months. He has placed his manuscript in my hands with the wish that I do 

 with it as I think best. I have made some slight verbal changes, but otherwise 

 the paper represents the author's own observations and conclusions. — Philip 

 P. Calvert.) 



The problem of the physiology of respiration among insects 

 is by no means a settled one and presents a great many obstacles 

 to its solution, especially in certain aquatic stages. 



The types, theories, etc., of respiration found in insects have 

 been much discussed and can be easily learned from any of the 

 more recent text-books of entomology and comparative physiology 

 and hence need not be taken up here. I shall deal entirely with 

 the phenomena among the dragonflies, restricting the problem to 

 the suborder Zygoptera. 



The morphological studies upon the structure of the rectum and 

 caudal gills of the larvae of Zygoptera bring forward several questions, 

 as to the exact function of these parts. 



The organs generally supposed to be concerned in the respiration 

 of these larvae are the caudal tracheal gills, the so-called rectal gills 

 or folds, the body surface and the spiracles. The structure of the 

 rectal gills or folds, especially as regards the distribution of tracheae 

 to the same is discussed in the papers of Calvert, Jamieson, CuUen 

 and Carroll, and need only be referred to here. (The structure of 

 the caudal gills has been described by Tillyard in 1917, in a paper 

 published after Mr. Bodine's work ceased.— P. P. C.) 



Various theories of respiration for these larvae have been pro- 

 posed, some of which are quite conflicting and the remainder are 

 based rather upon philosophical, than physiological, ideas. 



Briefly stated and outlined these theories are as follows: Reaumur 

 (1742) and Roesel von Rosenhof (1749) regarded the caudal gills 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



as having a fin-like or rudder-Uke function, mentioning no 

 respiratory function whatever. Dufour (1852) and Roster (1886) 

 ascriVjed to them the functions of respiration and locomotion. 

 Sharp (1895), remarking that the nymphs lived after removal of 

 the caudal gills, thought their respiratory function must be of an 

 accessory nature. Heymons (1904) held that the entire body surface 

 serves for respiration in addition to the gill-appendages. 



A respiratory function was first attributed to the rectum in this 

 group bj^ Roesel von Rosenhof (1749). Dufour (1852) described 

 the gills in the rectum and from this time on a respiratory function 

 has often been assigned to them. Calvert (1915) has given a detailed 

 account of the manner in which water is taken into and expelled 

 from the rectum, and from these observations, we must undoubtedly 

 ascribe to the rectum a relation to the respiratory functions of the 

 nymph. Tillyard (1916) asserts that in early larval life, immediately 

 after hatching, for a period of half an hour or so, the rectum 

 contracts vigorously and to these contractions assigns a respirator}'- 

 function, especially since he thinks the caudal gills of the very 

 young larvae are incapable of carrying on respiration. This con- 

 clusion is undoubtedly true, but in later periods of the larval life, 

 he attributes to these intermittent contractions only a possible 

 respiratory function, governed ''by the efficacy of the total of other 

 respiratory activities. Respiration through caudal gills, through 

 lateral abdominal gills when they occur and through the integument 

 in such cases as it may occur, all differ from rectal respiration in 

 being practically continuous, carried on without special efforts on 

 the part of the larva. Consequently, if the caudal gills have a poor 

 tracheal supply, or a very tough integument, or if the general 

 integument of the larva be unsuitable for respiration by diffusion, 

 the call on the larva for rectal pulsations must be heavier." 



If these statements be true, larvae which are old and hence have 

 thicker chitin over body and gills ought to show rectal pulsations 

 to a greater degree than the normal larvae. Such a condition, 

 however, has not been found to be the case in the larvae examined, 

 but such larvae have contractions quite like those younger and 

 with softer chitin. Tillyard continues: "If the caudal gills are 

 accidentally lost, we should expect that the rate of rectal respiration 

 would be increased." When the gills are removed one at a time, or 

 all together, no change in rate of rectal respiration has ever been 

 noticed, hence we can be quite sure of the non-respiratory function 

 of these caudal gills. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Till^-ard's earlier views (1915) as to the respiration of the 

 Zygopterous larvae are stated as follows: "Firstly, I shall deal 

 only with the suborder Anisoptera, i. e. those dragonflies whose 

 larvae breathe by means of rectal gills, and shall not consider the 

 somewhat different problem presented by the Zygoptera, wJiose 

 larvce breathe by means of caudal gills." (The italics are ours.) 



Calvert (1915) says, "From the various data which have been 

 brought together here, it seems reasonable to suppose, at least 

 until much more exact experiments show the limitations of each 

 mode of respiration for different stages and for different species of 

 Zygopterous larvae, that the general body surface, the caudal pro- 

 cesses, the rectal epithelium, certain spiracles and in a few species 

 lateral external abdominal tracheal gills, all contribute to satisfying 

 the needs of the organism for oxygen." 



Summing up this historical treatment of the possible functions 

 of these parts in respiration we find that three methods for the 

 taking in of oxygen by the larva are described, (1) by the caudal 

 tracheal gills^ — (2) by the rectal gills— (3) by the surface of the 

 body (including spiracles). 



Each of these will be discussed in turn and reasons for considering 

 them heretofore as entering into the phenomena of respiration, 

 will be given. 



I. The caudal tracheal "gills." These, three in number, situated 

 on the caudal end of the abdomen, have a structure which seems 

 admirably adapted for a respiratory function. Normally, they 

 are present on the larva throughout its life, but are, at the time of 

 transformation, left behind on the exuvia in their normal position 

 and relation. Their presence, however, does not seem to be necessary, 

 because larvae with one, two or all of them missing, live apparently 

 normally and transform into the adult in the usual manner. Hence, 

 if they do act as respiratory organs, it must be onlj^ in a secondary 

 manner. The}' do, however, aid the larva in swimming, acting as 

 fins or as rudders. When at rest the larvae have the tendency to 

 move the abdomen in a wave-like fashion from side to side, the 

 "gills" in this case possibly acting only as mechanical devices for 

 the stirring up of the water and hence in bringing water in which 

 the content of oxygen is richer near the larva. 



If they have (as many hold) a respiratory function, how can 

 the larva continue to live and reach maturity, when they are 

 completely removed? This seems to entirely eliminate them (or at 

 least to cast much doubt on their role) in a consideration of 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



respiration. Other organs must take up a respiratory function after 

 the removal of the caudal "gills" from the body, but this idea is 

 scarcely conceivable since it would be almost impossible for the 

 animal to adjust any such structures in so short a time. Since 

 these other organs seem especially adapted to a respiratory function, 

 their existence makes the possible respiratory function of the 

 caudal gills seem quite improbable. 



II. The rectal folds or gills. The structure of these, associated 

 with the observed intake and outgo of water into the rectum through 

 the anus, seems to warrant their inclusion in the consideration of 

 possible respiratory functions. The only other function which could 

 be assigned to the intake and outgo of water into and from the 

 rectum is that of a locomotor one. This, however, is rather improb- 

 able for several reasons. These larvae, when moving in the water, 

 do so by a worm-like wriggling of the body and do not "shoot" 

 through the water as do the Anisopterous larvae where the .rectum 

 does have a locomotor function. The water when expelled from 

 and taken into the rectum does not create currents strong enough 

 to propel the larva through the water. They are produced when 

 the larva is at rest and in this case do not move it. 



The function of respiration, then, can be assigned to the rectum, 

 until another possible means for this function can be found. The 

 possible respiratory function of the skin will have to be considered 

 before one can draw a final conclusion, however. 



III. The skin. The skin, or hypodermis and chitin, of the 

 larvae, varies in thickness and hardness according to the length 

 of time from the preceding moulting period. Just after exuviation 

 the chitin is soft and quite transparent. Soon it becomes hard, 

 thickens and becomes quite dark in color. Ramifying throughout 

 the surface of the larva are innumerable, fine, thread-like tracheae 

 which join larger branches and finally these latter unite with the 

 main tracheal trunks. The thread-like tracheae being found over 

 the entire surface of the larva's body, afford a very large area exposed 

 directly to the water by which the larva is surrounded. Thus the 

 structure of the skin seems to warrant its consideration as a means 

 of respiration. 



IV. Spiracles. Spiracles on the thorax and abdomen are sup- 

 posed to function when the larvae crawl up out of the water into the 

 air. This idea, perhaps true, need not be considered here because 

 we shall only deal with respiration as carried on when the larvae 

 are actually submerged. However, when the larvae come to the 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



surface, and especially at the time of transformation, respiration 

 must be carried on by this method, since the larvae have then come 

 to the end of their aquatic existence and no longer need those means 

 of respiration previously employed but rather are ready to begin 

 an aerial existence, hence respiration by means of spiracles. 



Experiments. 



Various experiments made during 1916 and 1917, seem to throw 

 some light upon the possible respiratory mechanisms of Zygopterous 

 larvae. The larvae used were of species of Ischnura and of 

 Enallagma, obtained from small ponds at Primos, Pennsylvania. 

 Many individuals were employed, the experiments were repeated 

 several times and the data for each set of experiments represent 

 average results. 



The normal larva (with three caudal "gills") when observed 

 under a binocular microscope and in a Sj^racuse watch glass, show 

 rhythmic pulsations in the rectum, in the manner described by 

 Calvert (1915) for the larva of Hetaerina americana, i. e., each 

 pulsation consisted of three to four successive contractions of the 

 rectum, followed by a pause. No uniformity, however, in the 

 number of contractions per minute seemed to exist ; this was possibly 

 due to age, size and environment of the larvae under examination. 

 Particles of carmine and of lampblack were also used and these 

 were seen to go in and out of the rectum. 



The current of water taken in and expelled was not so forcible 

 that a possible locomotor function could be ascribed to it. The 

 currents were not strong but rather weak and of only sufficient 

 strength to be taken into and expelled from the rectum so that a 

 change of water could be brought about. 



The three caudal gills were then removed as follows: the larva 

 was placed under a binocular microscope as above and a fine needle, 

 bent at a right angle was used to remove the gills. The needle was 

 placed on the particular gill to be taken off and the larva pulling 

 away under this stimulus, broke off the gill at its attachment to the 

 posterior end of the abdomen. By this method the three gills were 

 successively removed. The results obtained were the same whether 

 one, two or three gills were removed at the same time or at 

 intervals. The rate of rectal contractions was not increased or 

 decreased at the time of operation and several hours afterward the 

 contractions had not changed their regular normal rhythm. 



These larvae, after the removal of the gills, behaved normally 

 and lived in a regular way, and moulted as did larvae with gills.^ 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Mai'ch, 



To determine whether the larvae breathed through the skin 

 several experiments were conducted. Glass battery jars were 

 filled with pond water and into them were put both larvae with 

 gills and also those from which gills had been removed. A fine 

 gauze was then stretched across the jars about two inches below 

 the water's surface, so that the larvae could not come up to the 

 air. Larvae kept under these conditions, as well as those kept 

 in jars from which the gauze was absent, lived for periods of four 

 to six days — depending of course, upon the amounts of available 

 food substances present in the water. The food question, however, 

 can be eliminated, because both the larvae in the controls, as well 

 as those under experiment, were kept in water obtained from the 

 same pond and were under similar laboratory conditions. 



The same experiment, performed in a slightly different way, 

 gave like results. Larvae, both with and without gills, were put in 

 vials, the ends of which were covered with gauze, and the vials 

 were then dropped into battery jars containing pond water. 

 Larvae put into distilled water in the same manner as above, lived 

 only one to two days — in all probability due to food and osmotic 

 conditions of their environment. 



When the water was previously boiled the length of life of the 

 larvae was greatly reduced — to one and one-half days when under 

 the above conditions. This is doubtless due to lack of food and 

 oxygen in the water used. 



Tracheal System of larva of Enallagma sp., from Primos, Delaware County, 

 Pennsylvania. Larva No. 101. Drawings made by J. H. Bodine, November 

 12, 1915. Fig. 1, dorsal view. Fig. 2, dorsal view of hind end of abdomen 

 with caudal gills. Fig. 3, ventral view. From a transparent specimen. (These 

 are, perhaps, the first complete views, dorsal and ventral, of the tracheal system 

 of an Agrionine larva to be published. A highly magnified drawing of the distal 

 part of a caudal gill in lateral view was published by C. G. Carus as long ago 

 as 1827.— P. P. C.) 



Abbreviations. 



anas, anastomosis of trachese in ab- Imcgt, left median caudal gill trachea. 



dominal segment X. Ivs, left visceral trachea. 



at, antennal trachea. meg, median caudal gill. 



die, transverse trachea connecting ptl, pt^H, ptS, tracheae of 1st, 2nd and 



dorsal and lateral longitudinal 3rd legs, respectively. 



trachea?. rcg, right caudal gill. 



ict, inferior cephalic trachea (to maxilla rcgl, right caudal gill trachea. 



and labium). nit, right dorsal trachea. 



leg, left caudal gill. rU, right lateral trachea. 



Icgt, left caudal gill trachea. rmcgt, right median caudal gill trachea. 



Idt, left dorsal trachea. rvs, right visceral trachea. 



li, labium. ta, thoracic anastomosis. 

 lit, left lateral trachea. 



The Roman numerals denote the numbers of the abdominal segments. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



109 



Imcgt 

 lest 



hue gt 

 anas 



■rcgt 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



From these experiments we see, that respiration must be carried 

 on by one of two methods — (1) by the rectum or (2) through the 

 integument. The probability of the passage of the air of the water, 

 through the chitin of the body is quite doubtful. The larvae used 

 were for the most part of rather hard, thick chitin and the passage 

 of the air through this would be very slow and in all likelihood 

 too small in amount to serve the entire respiratory needs of the 

 larvae. The possibility of the larvae getting near or on the surface 

 of the water and taking in air through the spiracles present on the 

 thorax or directly through the skin is excluded, since the larvae 

 could not get to the surface. The only method left, by which the 

 air could have been taken in, was by means of the rectum. The 

 manner in which the air is taken out of the water by the larval 

 rectum is one of dispute and need not be taken up here. Tillyard 

 (1915) has admirably discussed this question and reference to his 

 work Avill show the present views. 



In experiments made with other objects in view, viz., the action 

 of certain gases or fumes of chfferent chemicals, e. g., ether, chloro- 

 form, etc., upon the heart's action, verj^ interesting phenomena 

 were observed with respect to their effects upon the contractions 

 of the rectum. The details of these experiments will not be given 

 now, but their effects on the respiratory phenomena in which we 

 are interested will be considered. 



Before the various gases affect the action of the heart, violent 

 contractions of the rectum always precede and very shortly afterward 

 the effects upon the heart's action can be observed. In an animal 

 which has been under the influence of the gas and is recovering, 

 similar contractions of the rectum can be observed before the heart 

 again beats normally. These observations would seem to show 

 that the gas is first taken into the rectum and distributed from it 

 to the other parts of the body. The contractions, when the animal 

 is recovering, would also seem to indicate that air must be carried 

 to the tissues before normal activities could again be resumed. 



If the larvae breathe through the skin, these contractions of 

 the rectum would be quite superfluous. They cannot be due to the 

 action of the gas used, as when the larva was recovering, it was kept 

 in normal atmosphere, away from the effects of the gas. Hence 

 the rectum must in some way act as a respiratory center for the 

 larvae. 



The distribution of the tracheae, and the general structure of the 

 rectum of the larvae employed in these experiments correspond 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



fairly closely to that of the other species studied in the papers by 

 CuUen, Jamieson, Carroll and Calvert. 



Whether the air which enters the rectum is carried from it by 

 the tracheae or whether it diffuses through into the spongy tissue 

 in contact with the basement membrane of the rectum and is then 

 carried by the blood to the different parts of the body, is at present, 

 rather difficult to say on purely physiological grounds and will 

 require more intensive study. 



From a morphological study of the species of larvae used in my 

 experiments, carried out in a way similar to those of Calvert, 

 Jamieson, Cullen and Carroll, I find that the number of tracheae 

 and of tracheoles, distributed to the rectum is very small — much 

 too small to supply or take up sufficient oxj'gen for the respiratory 

 needs of the larvae. Doubtless the greater part of the oxygen 

 diffuses through the spongy bands as suggested by Carroll. 



If oxygen from air in the water diffuses through the walls of the 

 rectum and is taken up by the blood and is thus distributed to the 

 various parts of the body, the tracheae and tracheal trunks must 

 be accessory structures, since otherwise the oxygen would have to 

 be taken up by them from the blood and be distril:)uted by them 

 to the various parts of the body. This is hardly conceivable, since 

 the blood is found to circulate freely to all parts of the body. One 

 fact which would point to such a function of the blood is, that the 

 heart's action when subjected to different gases, is not interfered 

 with until after violent contractions of the rectal wall have taken 

 place, showing that possibly the gas is carried cUrectly to the heart 

 by means of the blood and not by means of the tracheae. On the 

 other hand, from morphological studies already cited (Calvert, 

 Cullen, Jamieson and Carroll) we see that the tracheal supply to 

 the rectum and especially the manner of ending of the tracheoles, 

 would seem to indicate the possible diffusion of the oxygen through 

 other places than those where these tracheoles end (Carroll). If 

 such a condition is found, the problem becomes one quite different 

 than heretofore supposed — the tracheoles and tracheae then must 

 play only a secondary ro'e in the distribution of oxygen to the body 

 if at all; the blood must be the important means of transportation 

 of oxygen either to the tracheae, or directly to the various parts 

 of the body. 



. Tilly ard (1916) says regarding the mode of diffusion of air in 

 Zygopterous larvae: "The diffusion of CO- outwards into the rectal 

 water supply, and the diffusion of air inwards, is undoubtedl}' effected 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



through the rectal epithehum without amj specialisation of the 

 tracheal supply of that region, and the exchange must be regarded 

 as being primarily one between the blood of the larva and the water 

 in the rectum, quite irrespective of the tracheal system, which is 

 bound to benefit sooner or later by the change." His idea based 

 almost entirely upon speculative grounds, perhaps can be better 

 justified after the detailed morphological work on the tracheal 

 supply has been done. His attempt, however, to correlate the 

 thickened folds of rectal epithelium of Zygopterous larva? with the 

 basal pads of Anisopterous larvae, especially as regards the elimina- 

 tion of carbon dioxide, are, perhaps, not so well founded. The 

 detailed morphological work has shown that these folds are the 

 definite cellular parts of the rectum and have a tracheal supply. 

 The great quantities of spongy tissue present between the folds 

 suggests the supposed function attributed by Tillyard to the folds 

 themselves, viz., the elimination of carbon dioxide. 



Conclusions. 



1. Zygopterous larvae breathe by means of the rectum from 

 the time of hatching until transformation. 



2. Caudal "gills" serve only in a mechanical way, as rudders 

 in the locomotion of the larvae. 



3. Respiration through the skin of the larva is doubtful, but 

 if it takes place, is only in a very slight degree, not supplying enough 

 oxygen for the respiratory needs of the larva. 



4. Regular rhythmic contractions of the rectum take place 

 throughout the aquatic life of larvae. 



.5. Rhythm of rectal contractions is not interfered with by 

 removal of the caudal "gills." 



Bibliography. 



Calvert, P. P.— 1915. Studies on Costa Rican Odonata. VII. The 

 Waterfall-Dwellers: The Internal Organs of Thaumatoneura larva and the 

 Respiration and Rectal Tracheation of Zygopterous larvae in general. Ent. 

 News, XXVI, pp. 385-395, 435-447, Pis. XV-XVIl, I text figure. November, 

 December. (As this paper contains a bibliography, the titles of the works of 

 earlier authors are not listed here.) 



Carroll, M. — 1918. The Hind-gut, Abdominal Tracheae and Rectal 

 Respiration in the larva of Mecistogaster modestus from Costa Rica. Pro- 

 ceedings, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, LXX, pp. 86-103. 



CuLLEN, A. M. — 1918. Rectal Tracheation of Argia putrida larva. The 

 same Proceedings, LXX, pp. 75-81. 



Jamieson, J. P. — 1918. The Tracheal Supply of the Rectum of the Larva 

 of Argia talamanca from Juan Vinas, Costa Rica. The same Proceedings, 

 LXX, pp. 81-85. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



TiLLYARD, R. J. — 1915. On the Physiology of the Rectal Gills in the 

 Larvae of Anisopterid Dragonflies. Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, XL, 

 pp. 422-437, PI. XLVII, December 10. 



— 1916. Further Observations on the Emergence of Dragonfly-larvae from 

 the egg with Special Reference to the Problem of Respiration. Op. cit., XLI, 

 pp. 388-416, 5 text figures. September 13. 



— 1917. On the Morphology of the Caudal Gills of the Larvae of Zygopterid 

 Dragonflies. Introduction. Part I (General Morphology), and Part 11 

 (Studies of the Separate Types). Op. cit., XLII, pp. 31-112, Pis. I-VI, 32 text 

 figures. July 11. (Appeared after the conclusion of Mr. Bodine's work, 

 but added here for the sake of completeness of reference.) 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [March, 



NEW GENERIC NAMES FOR UPPER CRETACEOUS GASTROPODA. 



BY BRUCE WADE. 



In a recent paper entitled New and Little Known Gastropoda from 

 the Upper Cretaceous of Tennessee, published in the Proceedings of 

 The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia for September, 

 1917, pp. 280-3C4, there were several errors which crept in because 

 of the necessity of preparing the paper for publication after the writer 

 left Baltimore and had entered the U. S. Artillery service. 



It is the purpose of this brief note to rectify these mistakes and 

 omissions. The family name Fusidce should have been inserted over 

 the genus Falsifusus on page 284, and similarly the family name 

 BusyGonidce should have been inserted over the genus BolteneUa on 

 page 285. 



The generic term Hyllus (page 281) has been found to be much 

 preoccupied and the new name Parafusus is here proposed to take 

 its place, the type thus becoming Parafusus calUlateras and the 

 second species, Parafusus coloratus. Similarl}^ the term Scohina 

 (page 286) is preoccupied and for the latter the name Haplovoluta is 

 proposed, the type species becoming Haplovoluta bicarinata. The 

 new Buccinoid genus Seminola is not regarded as being preoccupied 

 by the Coleopteroid genus Seminolus of Mulsant (1869) although 

 the two are dangerously alike and a different term would have been 

 proposed in the first instance if the writer had been aware of 

 Mulsant's genus. 




1918.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



April 9. 



MEETING 

 IN MEMORY OF SAMUEL GIBSON DIXON, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D. 



Edwin Grant Conklin, Ph.D., Sc.D., Vice-President, in the 

 Chair. 



The Presiding Officer, in opening the meeting, remarked : 



We have met to commemorate the hfe and pubhc services of a 

 distinguished man, Samuel Gibson Dixon, who has passed forever 

 from our view, but whose influence and labors will remain long 

 after we also shall have joined the "great majority." Others who 

 knew him most intimately in the various phases of his many-sided 

 life and work will speak at length of his services to science, to the 

 State and to this Academy, but as one who was associated with him 

 for many years in the Council of the society, I cannot refrain 

 from calling attention to the many evidences of his ability and 

 foresight which are all around us. This very hall in which we are 

 meeting we owe to his activities. The Academy had a great history 

 when Dr. Dixon became its President. It had great collections, 

 an unexcelled library, a distinguished scientific staff, and a national 

 and international reputation in science, but it was inadequately 

 housed and endowed. With great energy and ability Dr. Dixon 

 set himself to the task of providing a suitable home and a larger 

 endowment for the institution. Contrast the old building with the 

 present group of buildings, the old Library Hall with this cheerful 

 and inspiring one, the old accommodations for the scientific staff with 

 their present work-rooms and laboratories. We might truly write 

 on his memorial tablet, "He found the Academy crumbling 

 serpentine and left it enduring steel and stone." 



Dr. Conklin then presented the Hon. John Cadwalader, Vice- 

 President of the Academy; Witmer Stone, Sc.D., and B. Franklin 

 Royer, M.D., who made the following addresses: — 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



LEGAL ATTAINMENTS OF DOCTOR DIXON. 



BY JOHN CADWALADER, LL.D. 



Dr. Samuel Gibson Dixon was a man of such varied abilities and 

 had exerted them to such an unusual degree in benefiting his fellow- 

 men that all phases of his life present points of interest and justify 

 the consideration of his career in its different periods. 



In his very early years he exhibited such activity of mind and 

 such earnestness of purpose that his father said of him that "there 

 seemed to be no limitation to his development." When a man has 

 been a successful lawyer, a doctor of medicine, filling an important 

 chair in a leading medical school with high scientific attainments ; 

 for twenty-two years the President of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia, and in 1905 assuming as Commissioner 

 the entire control of and practically creating the Health Depart- 

 ment of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania under the continuous 

 reappointments by four Governors, it may well be said of him that 

 his life has been remarkable and well spent. 



The Chairman has spoken and others will speak of his work for 

 the Academy and for sanitary science. I have been asked to refer 

 to those years during which he devoted himself to the law. 



The law has been well called "A Jealous Mistress," requiring un- 

 tiring attention. Dr. Dixon only entered on the threshold of a 

 lawyer's life and, of course, had not reached the stage of distinction 

 which only comes to men after years of experience. I am sure, 

 however, that his study and limited time in practicing the profession 

 had a distinct influence in his career. 



The material growth of industries and commercial interests 

 of all kinds has brought into such prominence the "Captains of 

 Industry" and "Napoleons of Finance" that the great profession 

 of the law is not appreciated as it was half a century ago and for 

 centuries before that time. Lord Campbell, in dedicating his "Lives 

 of the Chief Justices of England" to his son Dudley, wrote: "As 

 you have chosen the noble though arduous profession of the law I 

 dedicate these lives to you in the hope that they may stimulate in 

 your bosom a laudable ambition to excel, and that they may teach 

 you industry, energy, perseverance and self-denial," and "ever bear 

 in mind that truly enviable reputation is only to be acquired by 




1918. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



independence of character, by political consistency and by spotless 

 purity both in public and private life." 



Dr, Dixon's early leaning was the study of chemistry and from 

 that to medicine generally. His health, however, as he reached 

 manhood was not good and he went to Europe, visiting Vienna in 

 1873 during the World's Exhibition held in that year. On his return, 

 when about twenty-five years old, he entered the office of his brother, 

 Edwin S. Dixon, and studied law with him and at the Law School 

 of the University of Pennsylvania, being admitted to the Bar on 

 June 30th, 1877. 



It is of interest to recall the fact that Dr. Dixon's immediate 

 predecessor as President of the Academy, Gen. Isaac J. Wistar, 

 was also a man of varied pursuits and until the Civil War 

 practiced law. 



In 1886 Dr. Dixon received his degree of Doctor of Medicine from 

 the University of Pennsylvania, so that his years at the Bar were 

 not more than six. The importance of those years in rendering 

 more useful his distinguished career in his later activities is not 

 probably recognized by many. 



The training in a lawyer's office before the system of acquiring 

 knowledge of the law entirely in a school, as at present, was of great 

 value. A student under a careful preceptor was guided in his reading 

 and studies. He had the advantage of being able to apply his 

 knowledge to the daily business of the office. Typewriters and 

 stenographers and even office boys had not then been introduced, 

 and all letters and papers were copied, notices were served and 

 messages carried by the students. The student then not only 

 acquired practical knowledge of the duties of a lawyer, but he 

 became known to the members of the Bar and clients in a way that 

 enabled him to gain their confidence if it was deserved. 



In an office of general practice every kind of business and occu- 

 pation and the method of being conducted have to be investigated. 

 A lawyer should be an expert accountant and bookkeeper, with an 

 insight into all commercial and manufacturing methods. Until 

 title companies superseded the work of the conveyancer, I mean in 

 the correct sense and not that of a scrivener, which is usually meant, 

 the lawyer had to possess the closest familiarity with all the 

 incidents connected with real estate and mortgages and the rights 

 of inheritance. In these and many other fields the lawyer of fifty 

 years ago was very truly Une homme d'affaires. 



The profession of the law is more important in this countrj^ than 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



in any other, as we live under the written Constitutions of the 

 State and the United States. It is extremely difficult for any man 

 not trained in the law to comprehend his duties as a citizen. We 

 all realize if a Legislature or Congress passes an Act that affects our 

 interests we must consult a lawyer to ascertain how we are to meet 

 its requirements. The recent income tax laws are in point. But 

 very few think of the fundamental constitutional regulations that 

 override and control all legislation. It is largely for these reasons 

 that lawyers have been called upon to fill every class of executive 

 duty. A few years ago a greater number of railroads were presided 

 over by lawyers than by any other class of men, and the great trust 

 companies and even banks seek lawyers as their presiding officers. 



I have referred to these facts to apply them to the case of our 

 late President. Short as his career was at the Bar, his keen clear 

 intellect had grasped the main principles of the law and he had 

 entered upon a successful professional life. Admitted in 1877, as 

 early as January Term, 1878, his name appears in the Supreme 

 Court Reports. The case referred to was one involving a nice point 

 of law, and the opposing counsel was a leader of the Bar and one of 

 the most distinguished men in the profession, the Hon. Peter McCall. 

 The case was decided in favor of Dr. Dixon's clients, an important 

 fact for a young advocate. 



The office of Edwin S. Dixon and Samuel G. Dixon was noted 

 for its accurate and careful attention to every case and matter sub- 

 mitted to it. In connection with cases involving real estate they 

 were especially competent and met on equal terms the Nestors of 

 that branch of the law at that time, Eli K. Price, Edward Olmstead, 

 William Henry Rawle and Henry Wharton. These were the men 

 at that date who practically controlled all transactions involving 

 land titles. The details of a laAvyer's practice are not of general 

 interest, and I do not recall any incident in Dr. Dixon's years at the 

 Bar requiring special mention. What he gained in those eight 

 years of study and practice he never forgot, and those who have 

 been associated with him on the Council of the Academy can all 

 testify as to his clear insight and sound judgment on questions 

 affecting its material interests as distinguished from the scientific 

 work which demanded his greater attention. 



Dr. Dixon fully appreciated all that Lord Campbell said of the 

 legal profession and followed his precepts while a lawyer and in all 

 of his other relations in life. He knew that to excel "industry, 

 energy, perseverance and self-denial" were essential. The envia- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



ble reputation he secured could not have been acquired without 

 "independence of character and by spotless' purity in public and 

 private life." 



The interesting home owned and lived in for six generations of 

 his mother's family called "Waverly, " where he was born, still 

 belongs to them. Adjoining Bartram's Gardens the three hundred 

 acres reached the Schuylkill River, where, from their owii wharf, 

 they shipped the farm products and caught the shad in the spring, 

 justly prized from those waters. The city's growth has destroyed 

 these advantages which the earlier generations enjoyed, but it is 

 rare that any home in this country remains in the possession of the 

 sixth generation of any family. 



Interesting as was his early home, his late residence, near the 

 romantic Mill Creek and overlooking the beautiful hills beyond 

 Ardmore with the rare trees and shrubbery and attractive farm 

 land, was one in which he might have passed his latter days 

 in the truest enjoyment. He gave himself no rest, however, and 

 even the hottest days of summer were spent at Harrisburg in the 

 strenuous performance of his great work of protecting the people 

 of his State from the scourge of disease. 



Dr. Dixon was essentially a Philadelphian. He possessed that 

 modesty and freedom from the desire for notoriety or personal 

 distinction which has marked so many of the great men of our 

 city and State. This building, in which is now safely housed the 

 invaluable collections which he and his predecessors have obtained 

 and his work in securing- pure air and preserving the waters of the 

 State from pollution, are far greater monuments than any column 

 that could be erected in his memory. A plain tablet recording his 

 name, but not his deeds, as in the case of Franklin, is all that is 

 necessary. Dr. Dixon's monuments at least cannot be overlooked. 



My warm friendship for Dr. Dixon renders it a pleasure to con- 

 tribute in any way to the respect which is owed to his memory, 

 and as a lawyer to record the fact of his having been one of that 

 brotherhood. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



DOCTOR DIXON'S LIFE AND SERVICES TO THE ACADEMY. 

 BY WITHER STONE, SC.D. 



An institution such as this Academy demands the services of 

 many types of men, and of these three seem to stand out most 

 prominently before us. There is the student of the Natural Sciences,. 

 entirely absorbed in his researches, who sheds glory upon the society 

 by his discoveries; the benefactor, through whose generosity these 

 researches are made possible; and the executive, the man of ajffairs 

 under whose direction the institution is developed. 



One of these is equally as important as the other in the welfare of 

 the institution, and lacking any one of the three, successful develop- 

 ment is impossible. 



It is to the last category that Samuel Gibson Dixon primarily 

 belonged, and it is his untiring energy and devotion in guiding the 

 development of this institution, as executive Curator and President 

 for nearly a quarter of a century, that constitute his great gift to 

 this Academy. 



But great as were his services as executive, he was more than this. 

 Directly or indirectly he filled the role of benefactor as well, by 

 securing the funds which made possible the development of the 

 plant of the Academy from the modest building which housed our 

 collections twenty-five years ago to the commodious museum, 

 library and laboratories of to-day. Then, too, his experience in 

 medical research gave him a sympathetic interest in the work of the 

 staff and influenced him in guiding the development of the institu- 

 tion along the lines of scientific research which was its origmal 

 province and to which its reputation has always been due. 



The extent of Dr. Dixon's services to this institution and through 

 it to science in general is appreciated by few outside of our officers 

 and members. It was his later labors in the field of preventive 

 medicine and sanitation, as Commissioner of Health of Pennsylvania, 

 that brought him his great renown, not only throughout the extent 

 of this Commonwealth but far beyond its borders as well, and have 

 made his name a byword in every household of the State, coupled 

 always with the thought of public health. But the details of this 

 work, by far his greatest achievement, as well as his career in the 

 law and its influence on his later activities, are treated of by others, 




1918.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



and I must confine myself to a consideration of his services to this 

 Academy. 



Dr. Dixon was born on March 23, 1851, in the old Gibson home- 

 stead on the Schuylkill River below Bartram's Garden, where his 

 family had resided since 1721. His father, Isaac Dixon, a respected 

 merchant of Philadelphia, and his mother, Ann Gibson, were mem- 

 bers of the Society of Friends, and it was under the influence 

 of the quiet Quaker environment so characteristic of our city thafc 

 his early life was spent. 



As a boy he attended the Friends' School at Fifteenth and Race 

 streets and the Mantua Academy in Philadelphia, then in charge of 

 Prof. Hastings. He later received instruction from private tutors 

 with the idea of preparing for Harvard University. Failure in health, 

 however, necessitated a rest from his studies, which was followed 

 by a trip abroad. Upon his return home all thought of a college 

 course was abandoned and he decided to devote himself to business 

 and the study of law. He took a course in the Mercantile College 

 of. Philadelphia and then entered the law offices of his brother, 

 Edwin Saunders Dixon, and attended the Law School of the Univer- 

 sity of Pennsylvania, being admitted to the Bar in 1877. He con- 

 tinued his law practice for six years, but the necessary confinement 

 and constant strain of office work proved too much for his constitution. 

 and once more he was forced to seek rest. 



Realizing the necessity for a permanent change of occupation, 

 he now conceived the idea of devoting himself to the scientific side 

 of medicine — a subject which in spite of his choice of the law as a 

 profession had always possessed a deep attraction for him. With 

 this object in view he entered the Medical School of the University 

 of Pennsylvania in the autumn of 1883 and received his degree of 

 M.D. in 1886. He won distinction in his studies and while still an 

 undergraduate was appointed an assistant demonstrator in physi- 

 ology under the late Harrison Allen. 



An attack of typhoid fever during the closing part of his course 

 nearly forced him to abandon his studies, but with characteristic 

 determination he continued his work and passed his examinations. 

 Almost immediately afterward he sailed for Europe, in an effort 

 to regain his health in rest and change of scene. Returning in 1888 

 he was appointed Professor of Hygiene at the University and soon 

 after became Dean of the Auxiliary Department of Medicine. 



In 1889 he again spent several months in Europe, this time in. 

 various medical schools in special lines of study connected with. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



his college work. He took courses in Bacteriology, a science then 

 in its infancy, under Crookshank at King's College, London, and 

 under Klein at the College of State Medicine in the same city, 

 while he studied also under Pettenkofer at Munich, investigating 

 methods of sewage disposal, purification of drinking water and 

 other hygienic subjects. 



His duties at the University soon became irksome to him and he 

 longed for more opportunity for original research. He had in 

 1889 anticipated Koch in the discovery of the branched form of the 

 tubercle bacillus, and had conceived the possibility of the use of an 

 attenuated culture as a preventive of tuberculosis. In experiment 

 he had actually produced immunity in a Guinea-pig, and further 

 investigation of the problem was absorbing all his attention. 



As a result he withdrew from the University and determined to 

 establish a private laboratory elsewhere. Through the suggestion 

 of Dr. Henry C. Chapman he came to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. Dr. Dixon was elected a member of the Academy 

 February 25, 1890, and in the autumn of that year was granted 

 the use of a room at the eastern end of the old Race street building, 

 which he fitted up as a laboratory. Here for several years, personally 

 and through assistants, he carried on active bacteriological researches. 

 He took part in the meetings of the Academy, became a member of 

 the Microscopical and Biological Section and was elected Professor 

 of Microscopic Technology. He again visited Europe soon after 

 establishing his laboratory at the Academy and made the personal 

 acquaintance of Koch, Virchow and other noted foreign bacteriolo- 

 gists. 



Dr. Dixon's intimate association with the Academy naturally 

 led him to take a deep interest in the affairs of the institution and 

 at the close of the year 1891 he was elected a Curator, becoming 

 •executive Curator in 1893 and President on December 31, 1895, 

 retaining both offices until the time of his death. 



With the assumption of the duties of executive Curator his 

 personal researches in Bacteriology at the Academy, for the time 

 being, came to an end, and his whole time and energy were devoted 

 to the Academy's affairs and to the business management of a 

 large estate of which he was executor. 



At the time that his Curatorship began there had been little 

 change in the arrangement of the museum since the Academy had 

 first moved to its present site in 1876. There was but one salaried 

 man^in charge of the collections, and while several departments 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



were in the care of the members of the sections or of individual 

 volunteers, the preservation of most of the historic material belonging 

 to the institution was a serious problem. Dr. Dixon, assuming the 

 position of executive Curator without salary, took over all the 

 responsibilities of the museum management, instituting many 

 reforms and introducing more businesslike methods. Needless to 

 say almost his entire time was spent at the Academy. 



Shortly after his election to the presidency the munificent bequest 

 of the late Robert H. Lamborn became available, and he was by 

 virtue of his two offices able not only to direct the general appro- 

 priation of this fund, but also to carry out in detail the further 

 development of the museum, which had long been hampered by 

 lack of means. Gradually additions were made to the museum staff 

 until all of the perishable collections were under the care of salaried 

 specialists. By constantly conferring with the members of the 

 staff he ascertained the needs of the several departments and these, 

 under his direction, were provided for as far as possible. Modern 

 cases both for storage and exhibition purposes were installed and 

 the way opened for the accumulation and systematic arrangement 

 of the extensive study collections which have been brought together 

 in recent years, and which have made the Academy more than ever 

 a Mecca for systematists from all parts of the country. 



Later Dr. Dixon, largely through his personal efforts, secured 

 several appropriations from the State with which the museum 

 building was enlarged, improved and rendered fireproof — while a 

 new library and a commodious lecture hall were erected, providing 

 for two other important branches of the Academy's activities. The 

 details of all this constructive work — plans, contracts and specifi- 

 cations — he insisted upon attending to in person, as well as carefully 

 superintending the building operations as they progressed. The 

 provision of a fireproof stack for the safeguarding of the priceless 

 library of the Academy was a matter of the greatest satisfaction to 

 Dr. Dixon, as it has been to all who are acquainted with its riches. 



In the extension of public education at the Academy, Dr. Dixon 

 took an earnest interest and through his influence the Ludwick 

 Institute, of which he was a director and later Vice-President, was 

 led to establish a course of free public lectures at the Academy 

 under the direction of the Lecture Committee, primarily for the 

 benefit of school children and teachers, in which popular courses 

 in various branches of natural history are given every year. 



A mere summary of developments and improvements in such an 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April,. 



institution as this mean but little unless one is familiar with early 

 conditions and those which we face to-day. Many can no doubt 

 remember the cramped antiquated museum building of twenty- 

 five years ago — the scarcity or absolute lack of study material 

 and a single Curator in charge, who from force of circumstances 

 could be little more than a Curator. From this you have seen the 

 development of a great modern museum, with an enormous research 

 collection and a competent staff of specialists constantly engaged in 

 its exploitation and in the preparation of valuable scientific contri- 

 butions for publication in the Academy's Proceedings. 



Such a development can only be effected through the wise direction 

 and economic management of a competent executive. In carrying 

 it out Dr. Dixon gained nothing but the satisfaction of a good work 

 brought to completion, while it entailed on his part an amount of 

 voluntary sacrifice of time and energy that few men feel like giving. 

 These are facts that do not show on the surface and are easily for- 

 gotten, but they should not be lost sight of in estimating the value 

 of such service. 



In June, 1905, Dr. Dixon was appointed Commissioner of Health 

 of Pennsylvania, and immediately began the development of the 

 State department which stands to-day as his greatest monument. 

 Through all these years he maintained his office at the Academy, and 

 many of his plans, especially for the enlargement and improvement 

 of the building, were carried to completion during the period when, 

 the multifarious duties of his larger office were such that most men 

 would have found them alone impossible. Naturall}^, of late years 

 with the activities and responsibilities of the Health Department 

 ever increasing, Dr. Dixon was able to devote less and less time to 

 the Academy, but the planning of earlier years had placed the 

 institution on a basis upon which it ran smoothly and needed less 

 and less the detailed attention of the executive. During his long 

 connection with the Academy Dr. Dixon served upon many of its 

 committees, being Chairman of the Building Committee and also 

 of the Committee in charge of the Centenary Celebration in 1912. 



In March, 1892, he was appointed to act for the Academy in con- 

 junction with the State Board of Health in making a bacteriological 

 exhibit at the World's Columbian Exposition at Chicago. He little 

 thought at that time that he would in a few years be head of the 

 department that was to supersede the State Board in caring for 

 the health of the Commonwealth. 



During the early nineties he made several communications and. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



presented several papers at the meetings of the Academy, deahng 

 mainly with the development of Bacillus tuberculosis, but including 

 also accounts of Bacillus typhosis and Actinomyces as well as of 

 beri-beri and the bacteriological examination of drinking water. 

 About this time, through his efforts, the Pennsylvania Antitubercu- 

 losis Society made the Academy its meeting place and Dr. Dixon 

 became its Vice-President, thus emphasizing his interest in what was 

 to become one of his greatest achievements. 



In 1898 Dr. Dixon was appointed on the Board of Public Education 

 in Philadelphia and took an active part in improving the hygienic 

 conditions in the city schools. He was Vice-President of the 

 Zoological Societj^ of Philadelphia, a Director of the Wistar Institute 

 of Anatomy, trustee of the University of Pennsylvania, Fellow of 

 the College of Physicians, Past President of the Pennsylvania State 

 Medical Society and a member of numerous medical and scientific 

 organizations. In 1909 the University of Pennsylvania conferred 

 upon him the degree of Doctor of Laws, and in 1916 Lafayette 

 College honored him with the degree of Doctor of Science. 



In a life so fully occupied with duties of his official and executive 

 position as was Dr. Dixon's there seemed literally no time for 

 recreation. But in the rare moments when he did indulge in holiday 

 trips or in days of rest in the beautiful country place which he had 

 built at Black Rock, near Bryn Mawr, his deep interest in nature 

 asserted itself. He was always quick to notice unusual birds, 

 striking wild flowers or strange insects, and upon his return to the 

 Academy would seek the aid of specialists in determining their 

 identity and learning something of their history, usually adding 

 some original suggestions as a result of his keen powers of observa- 

 tion. Horticulture, too, was a favorite hobby and the Rhododendron 

 thickets and beds of rare plants that he succeeded in establishing at 

 Black Rock Farm were a source of sincere pleasure and gratification 

 to him. 



His visits to the famous tuberculosis sanatorium which he had 

 established at Mont Alto were always a great pleasure to him on 

 account of the splendid mountain scenery and the beauty of the 

 more intimate natural surroundings, of which, on his return, he 

 never failed to speak. This love of nature was always in evidence, 

 and from early youth he had delighted in hunting trips with gun and 

 dogs, which led later to moose hunts in Maine and ducking trips to 

 the clubs of the South Atlantic seaboard. But he indulged in such 

 recreation far too little, especially during the later years of his life, 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



seeming to neglect in his own case the care that he was ever urging 

 upon others to conserve their strength and health. 



Even before his appointment as Health Commissioner those who 

 were closely associated with Dr. Dixon were aware of the inroads 

 that constant attention to his business and executive duties were 

 making upon his health, and on several occasions he had suffered a 

 temporary breakdown. His was a nature that must delve into all 

 the details of every matter under consideration, to make sure that 

 there was no possibility of mistake and that nothing had been 

 overlooked. Praiseworthy as is such a practice, probably no consti- 

 tution can stand it indefinitely, and in the work of the Department 

 of Health it reached the limit of huilian endurance. 



Even during his long illness, which began about the end of July 

 last, Dr. Dixon's indomitable will continued to assert itself; and for 

 a long while he continued to direct the affairs of his department 

 from his sick bed and to consider the more important matters con- 

 nected with the administration of the Academy. As time went 

 on, however, he became less and less able to make such effort and 

 the final rest from his labors came on February 26, 1918. Dr. 

 Dixon was married in 1881 to Miss Fanny Gilbert, and she and a. 

 daughter, Catharine H. Dixon, survive him. 



Dr. Dixon had held the office of President of this Academy longer 

 than any other incumbent, with one exception, having just been 

 elected for his twenty-third term, and no other President had seen, 

 during his administration, such a physical expansion and develop- 

 ment of the institution. These things speak for themselves and bear 

 testimony of his executive ability and his devotion to the Academy. 

 To the country at large his work as Commissioner of Health is his- 

 monument, and he will stand for all time as an example of the 

 highest ideal of faithful service in public office and as an unselfish 

 benefactor of the people in his campaign for public health. 



To those of us who knew him here in the halls of the Academy, 

 however, there will always be memories of the personal side of his 

 relations to the institution and to the staff — his kindliness and 

 sympathy, his interest in the work of every individual, and back of 

 it all that constant desire, ever present, ever conspicuous, to advance 

 the Academy's interests and to meet its need? as he saw them; a 

 service, like that rendered as Commissioner of Health, which brought 

 greater benefits to others than it did to himself. 




1918.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127' 



DOCTOR DIXON'S WORK IN SANITARY SCIENCE. 



BY B. FRANKLIN ROYER, M.D. 



Acting Commissioner of Health, Commonwealth of Pennsj-lvania. 



The foundation of Samuel Gibson Dixon's unprecedented accom- 

 plishments in sanitary science was laid the day he took up the study 

 of laAV in the offices of his brother, Edwin Saunders Dixon; and 

 the erection of the superstructure began with his matriculation in 

 the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania. It was 

 probably because of his scientific bent of mind and his interest in 

 chemistry and in physiological processes, in good part brought 

 about by a break in health and search for recovery in 1881, that he 

 gave up law and studied medicine. So far as his intimate friends 

 in the medical class of 1886 know, he did not, as a student, give 

 any indication, either that he was especially qualifjdng for or antici- 

 pating a career in preventive medicine. While a student, however, 

 he, did show unusual interest in chemistry and in the scientific side 

 of physiology' and before the completion of his course he had received 

 an appointment from the University Trustees as Assistant Demon- 

 strator in Physiology, the main chair being so ably filled by the late 

 Harrii-on AKen. Throughout his life Dr. Dixon repeatedly referred 

 to this pleasant association and to the stimulation for research work 

 given him by his early master in physiology. 



The major Medical Faculty of the University of Pennsylvania 

 during the years when Dr. Dixon was a student (1882-1886) included 

 a number of intellectual giants. The Professors in 1885 and 1886 as 

 listed in the annual catalogue of the School of Medicine were as follows :: 



Alfred Stille, M.D., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Theory and 



Practice of Medicine. 

 Harrison Allen, M.D., Emeritus Professor of Physiology. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Anatomy. 

 Richard A. F. Penro.se, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Obstetrics and 



Diseases of Women and Children. 

 D. Hayes Agnew, ALD., LL.D., John Rea Barton Professor of Surgery 



and Professor of Clinical Surgery. 

 William Pepper, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Theory and Practice of 



Medicine and Professor of Clinical Medicine. 

 William Goodell, M.D., Professor of Clinical Gynecology. 

 James Tyson, M.D., Professor of General Pathology and Morbid 



Anatomy. 

 Horatio C. W^ood, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Materia Medica, 



Pharmacy and General Therapeutics. 

 Theodore G. Wormley, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Chemistry and 



Toxicology. 

 John Ashhurst, M.D., Professor of Clinical Surgery. 

 William Osler, M.D., Professor of Clinical Medicine. 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF April, 



The influence of such a remarkable group of America's greatest 

 Tnedical teachers undoubtedly molded the mind destined to chart 

 so original a course along new public health lines later in life. 



Graduating with honor in 1886 at the age of thirty-five years, 

 the doctorate degree was given to a man broken in health, and in 

 the early stage of what proved to be mild enteric fever. By special 

 arrangement his final medical examinations were given prior to his 

 sailing for Europe, the prostrating illness not being definitely 

 diagnosed until Queenstown was reached. Here under the care 

 of Dr. W. L. Townsend, in consultation with the celebrated Sir 

 X/auder Brunton, and later joined by the master in therapeutics, the 

 brilliant Dr. Horatio C. Wood, Dr. Dixon won the battle against 

 ivhat his physicians thought would be a fatal illness. Those of 

 us who have been closely associated with Dr. Dixon's work in 

 sanitary science have always felt that the influences of the kindly 

 and helpful Townsend and the stimulation of the brilliant thera- 

 peutist Wood, together with the association and life friendship of 

 the learned Sir Lauder Brunton, influenced the young medical mind 

 to study the then infant branch of hygiene — a branch of medicine at 

 that time receiving its greatest impetus on the continent of Europe, 

 particularly in Germany, 



After a prolonged holiday in Europe and complete restoration 

 to health, Dr. Dixon returned to Philadelphia in 1888 and was 

 made Professor of Hygiene in the Medical and Scientific Depart- 

 ments of the University of Pennsylvania, and later in the same 

 medical school year was appointed Dean of the Auxiliary Depart- 

 ment of MecUcine. Dr. Dixon, while holding this Chair, established 

 the first laboratory of hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania 

 and one of the first on the American continent. 



In 1889, several months' study in Europe, undertaken with a 

 resolution to perfect himself to teach the science of bacteriology, 

 brought him under the tutorship of Cruikshank, the celebrated bacte- 

 riologist in King's College, London, and gave opportunity for taking 

 a special course in bacteriology under Professor Klein of the College 

 of State Medicine in London. It was while a student under Klein 

 that Dixon made a notable observation, one by which he will perhaps 

 he best remembered as a scientific investigator. 



As he sat on his stool in Klein's laboratory, looldng through 

 the microscope and carefully searching a well stained slide prepara- 

 tion made from a culture of tubercle bacilli, he made the observation 

 that certain of these organisms were club shaped and others appar- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



ently had little shoots or branches. Dr. Dixon was very fond of 

 telling of the skepticism in the minds of the other students of this 

 laboratory, and perhaps even in the thought of open minded Klein 

 himself, when they were permitted to look at the branched forms in 

 this microscopic field. Some said the organisms were lying across 

 each other, or that the end of one bacillus projected against the 

 side of another; but Klein said, ''Dixon, if this branching is true, 

 you have made a great scientific discovery." He repeated his 

 work, he checked his technique, he wrote a splendid little paper 

 and illustrated it with a drawing which he made himself, showing 

 the new form. That little paper and that small illustration prepared 

 by the youth in research work attracted the attention of the 

 scientific world and fixed a reputation m science. 



This brilliant observation in all probability led him into further 

 research in tuberculosis, but in order to still better equip himself 

 as a teacher of hygiene, he did not return to his Chair without 

 having studied with the most noted hygienist of that time, Petten- 

 kofer of Munich. It was in 1889, while studying in the Laboratory 

 of Hygiene, Munich, so far as we know, that he undertook his 

 first studies in purifying large water supplies and the purification of 

 sewage. 



On his return to Philadelphia, late in 1889, he was made Professor 

 of Sanitary Engineering in the University of Pennsylvania, and in 

 October, 1889, we find him publishing a paper on the Treatment of 

 Sewage in London. An opportunity has not been had to review 

 the notes of his lectures given during this school year, but those 

 who had the privilege of listening to his instruction, and who are in 

 a position to contrast this instruction with the practices established 

 under his supervision in the State Department of Health of the 

 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, see worked out in practical detail 

 what was then considered imaginative and by some medical men 

 almost impracticable and visionary. 



In 1890, Dr. Dixon gave up his association with the University 

 of Pennsylvania to become Professor of Bacteriology and Micro- 

 scopic Technology in the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, going there solely in the capacity of a scientific worker. 

 Here he was stimulated by the great Leidy. 



During his last college teaching year — to be exact, the 19th of 



October, 1889 — the second event in the unusual career of this 



unusual man occurred. This date is an important one in the career 



of him to whom we pay tribute tonight. In the experimental 



9 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



research work undertaken }jy Dr. Dixon he found that by intro- 

 ducing old cultures of tubercle liacilli into lower animals a certain 

 degree of immunity was produced, and the publication in the 

 Medical News of Philadelphia on the above date preceded by 

 more than six months a similar announcement and publication of 

 similar work — that of the celebrated Koch of Germany. Koch 

 announced somewhat reluctantly that a substance could be pro- 

 duced that would prevent the growth of the tubercle bacillus in the 

 human system. 



Following Koch's announcement, l^r. Dixon, with authority from 

 American scientific and medical institutions, visited Europe, inter- 

 viewed Koch, Virchow, DuBois-Raymond, and many others. At 

 this time he had the privilege of admission to Koch's own labora- 

 tory. Europe and America were seething with public interest in 

 tuberculosis. Koch's work, as discoverer of the tubercle bacillus 

 and his later work backed by governmental agencies controlling 

 Germany's laboratories, resulted in robbing Dr. Dixon for a long 

 time of that credit of being the first to produce immunity which 

 should have been given him. In recent years American students 

 of tuberculosis have given this credit to Dr. Dixon and to 

 America. 



During the latter part of 1890, while working in his laboratory 

 in the Academy of Natural Sciences, Dr. Dixon developed a tubercle 

 bacillus extract that produces in the lower animals and in human 

 beings that same stimulation toward cure in certain types of the 

 disease that has been found l)y Trudeau, and other students of 

 pulmonary lesions, to be brought about l)y the various forms of 

 tuberculin. Later, this same preparation was found by surgeons 

 to be effective in the treatment of certain glandular and genito- 

 urinary types of tuberculosis and ophthalmologists found it equally 

 helpful in the treatment of ocular types. 



Dr. Dixon's indefatigable energy and originality were no doubt 

 responsible for his selection in 1892 as Executive Curator in the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences, and it is perhaps here and as Curator, 

 that he developed genius for ocular teaching. This experience as 

 Curator, together with his training in hygiene, led to his appointment 

 as a member of the Board of Public Education in 1898. During the 

 greater part of the six year period in the Board of Public Education 

 Dr. Dixon was Chairman of the Committee on Hygiene. It was 

 during this time that the active campaign was conducted for furnishing 

 public school children of the city of Philadelphia with pure drinking 




1918.] NATTJRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



water. The city water supply at this time was unfiltered, the 

 domestic household supply usually being purified by boiling. Filters 

 were installed. In 1902 the Committee on Hygiene began volunteer 

 medical inspection of the Public School children in Philadelphia, 

 the first place in Pennsylvania to undertake such work. 



It was while working in his capacity on the Committee on Hygiene 

 that the genius of the man of science stimulated the completion 

 of plans and models (practically invented) for scientific construction 

 of outlets from wash-basins, sinks, and bath-tubs. An illustrated 

 bulletin by the Commissioner of Health as late as May, 1914, shows 

 how actively his interest in such devices continued throughout his 

 busy career as a public health administrator. 



As early as 1890 in the annual oration on hygiene before the 

 Pennsylvania State Medical Society in convention at Williamsport, 

 Dr. Dixon gave evidence of public health foresight by visualizing 

 the future work of a State Health organization. In this address, 

 which was later in good part repeated before the State Board of 

 Health Of Pennsylvania on Friday evening, May 15, 1891, Dr. 

 Dixon practically forecast the work of a great State Department 

 of Health. Its development came fourteen years later. In that 

 address Dr. Dixon was consistent with his work in later life in that 

 he outlined ideal precautions for protection against tuberculosis, 

 and even suggested a Cabinet Minister of Health to be as useful 

 as a Cabinet Minister of Agriculture for essential national 

 organization. 



Dr. Dixon's foundations for administrative work in sanitary 

 science were well and deeply laid in the twenty- two year interval 

 between the time he gave up law to study mecUcine and during the 

 period of his teaching and research work. When the invitation came 

 to him from Governor Pennypacker in June, 1905, to organize the 

 State Department of Health, provided for by the three Acts of the 

 Legislature of that year, he came to the work with foundation 

 training in science and big business such as no other man in America 

 had. Dr. Dixon had nothing whatever to do with the drafting 

 of the legislation or securing its adoption. In his pursuit of knowledge 

 of preventive medicine, so far as is known, he had not done so with 

 any thought of accepting an executive position such as was offered 

 him by the Governor. The laAvs creating the Department were 

 drafted by Dr. Charles B. Penrose and it was almost wholly due to 

 the skill, patience and devotion of Dr. Penrose to a subject in 

 which he had become intensely interested while serving as a member 




132 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



of the Board of Health in Philadelphia that the laws were properiy 

 drafted and their approval secured. 



In the selection of Dr. Dixon to be the first Commissioner of 

 Health in Pennsylvania, Governor Pennypacker in his auto- 

 biography may be quoted: 



"The session of the Legislature ended on the 13th day of April. A Depart- 

 ment of Health had been created, to which had been given very great authority 

 and power which extended to the person of the individual citizen and might 

 even be regarded as an infringement of his personal liberty. The value and 

 permanence of the legislation would depend upon the manner in which the 

 department would be organized. It was at first suggested to me that it should 



be placed in charge of Dr , but that thought I instantly dismissed. 



I then had an interview with Dr. Charles B. Penrose, who had been very much 

 interested in the matter, and he named to me a gentleman connected with one 

 of the schools in the Western part of the State. I had a talk with this gentle- 

 man, but was still not satisfied. Then Dr. Penrose told me he thought Dr. 

 Samuel G. Dixon, President of the Academy of Natural Sciences, would be 

 willing to undertake the task. That suggestion suited me exactly. Dixon 

 consented and I made the appointment. Under his direction it has come to be 

 accepted as the most important and efficient organization for this line of work 

 in the United States. There is good ground for hope that many of the 

 inflammatory diseases due to specific poisons, such as typhoid fever, smallpox, 

 diphtheria and tuberculosis, may be in time stamped out of existence." 



Dr. Dixon was commissioned by Governor Pennypacker on the 

 6th day of June, 1905, and from that day until the day of his death 

 devoted the greater part of each hour that he was awake to the 

 organization and administration of the State Department of Health. 

 The organization was successful almost immediately for the reason 

 that every new step taken by the Department was carefully thought 

 out before being projected, and because the public were fully taken 

 into the confidence of the Commissioner prior to his enforcing any 

 new plan of procedure. 



Knowing the common interpretation that the wielding of police 

 authority extending to the person of an individual citizen for the 

 purpose of protecting all might be regarded as an infringement of 

 personal liberty, Dr. Dixon from the beginning tried to change this 

 general acceptance of the public and to make Pennsylvanians see 

 that in civilized life many primitive and individual lilierties must 

 be given up to insure the benefits to be had by public health protec- 

 tion. From the very beginning of the State Department of Health 

 the central thought in its educational work was ''how may we get 

 close to the people, and how may we make them see public health 

 problems from the viewpoint of benefits to be obtained." Dr. Dixon's 

 preachment, "Pennsylvania's citizens want to be kept well and in 

 good health and are willing to submit to inconveniences if we only 

 show them what to do" — these and similar slogans reached re- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



sponsive chords. Pennsylvania liked this new way of being taken 

 into the confidence of an executive. 



It is not possible to faithfully treat of Dr. Dixon's work in sanitary 

 science without speaking in some detail of the great public health 

 organization built by him during the last twelve and a half years of 

 his life. It will likely stand as the greatest monument to his 

 memory. 



The law creating the Department of Health centralized the 

 authority in the hands of a single executive, giving him greater 

 power than was given to any other officer of the Commonwealth, 

 save the Governor, and perhaps greater authority than is granted 

 any similar official in America. 



With all of this authority in the hands of a man known to be 

 ruggedly honest and gentle as a woman, the public had no fear of 

 usurpation of the unusual authority placed in his hands, and during 

 all the period that he was Commissioner of Health many of the 

 unusual powers that might be needed in case of great emergency 

 were never even given trial. 



The first organization undertaken was that of the Bureau of 

 Vital Statistics. Under Dr. Dixon's supervision this bureau was 

 so well planned that before it had been. in operation a full year 

 the Federal Census Office credited Pennsylvania with having a 

 better organized agency for gathering vital statistics than any 

 other State in the Union. This bureau consists of a central 

 office under the supervision of the State Registrar and more than 

 1,100 Local Registrars — one for each civil unit in the State, each 

 Local Registrar having a deputy. 



The second division of the Department's organization taken up 

 by Dr. Dixon was that of Medical Inspection. Before this division 

 had been in operation a year it was found that all previous plans for 

 public health organization in the civil sub-divisions known as second 

 class townships were inoperative, and that in many of the small 

 boroughs similar inaction was seen. 



For the first two years the Division of Medical Inspection was 

 largely engaged in handling epidemics too extensive for local health 

 organizations to cope with, and in helping lame health organiza- 

 tions to form working bodies. 



In 1907, however, all second class townships were formed into 

 720 sanitary districts, and it was suggested to the Legislature that 

 the law providing for school boards to act as Boards of Health 

 therein be repealed. The advice was followed and at once the 




134 PROCfifiDlNGg OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Department assumed entire executive supervision over public 

 health matters in a. population of more than two million souls. 



In all of the countryside, as well as in small boroughs, details were 

 worked out for handling quarantine just as it is done in our large 

 cities. It is fair at this time to say that a great deal of the reduction 

 in sickness from communicable diseases in our larger centers of 

 population is due to establishing proper regulations in the unorganized 

 country villages and on farmsteads, such points prior to that time 

 often feeding infection through food supplies or l)y visits into the 

 larger centers of population. 



The third great division of the Department's organization taken 

 up was that of Sanitary Engineering. One of the Acts upon which 

 the Department is based provided for the prevention of pollution 

 of streams, and Department measures had to be perfected for 

 approving, according -to the Act, the plans for all water works 

 and sewage treatment plants. Studies had to be made looking 

 toward the requiring of many cities to build sewage purification 

 works so that municipalities down stream might not be continuously 

 poisoned by filth entering from the neighboring city above. 



The amount of work required to supervise and intelligently 

 approve the hundreds of plans brought before the Commissioner 

 in this period of time was in itself almost a full task for one well 

 trained sanitarian. For every set of plans that came before the 

 Commissioner of Health completed and safe for approval in all 

 details, two sets of plans required rejection in some particular, and 

 a goodly number during the early days of the Department required 

 rejection in toto. 



The Division of Laboratories was organized as soon as the other 

 divisions were well planned, the organization being made with a 

 threefold purpose in view: 



First, to afford doctors in the Commonwealth remote from 

 instruments of precision opportunity to study their cases in a 

 scientific way and to apply modern methods of treatment. 



Second, to properly check the operation of water filtration and 

 sewage purification plants and to coordinate the engineering studies 

 with end results. 



Third, with the purpose of undertaking such research work as 

 might be advisable. 



Division of Distribution of Biological Products. — Early in the 

 history of the Department plans were made for averting the need- 

 less sacrifice of life to the ravages of diphtheria. The Attorney 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



General ruled tliat the appropriation items were so liberal in their 

 wording that the purchasing of diphtheria antitoxin would be per- 

 missible. Stations were established in all populous centers in the 

 Commonwealth and antitoxin was placed within the reach of all 

 Pennsylvania doctors for use in treating the poor. 



Divisions of Accounting and Purchasing and Supplies. — From 

 the very beginning of the Department's organization up to the 

 present time systematic keeping and auditing of accounts, and 

 purchasing and distribution of supplies were carried out with pre- 

 cision creditable to a large business concern. Two divisions were 

 devoted to this portion of the Department's business and work, 

 thus giving the executives of the other divisions all of their time 

 for essential public health details. 



So firmly had the organization worked out in 1905 been estab- 

 lished by 1907, that when the Legislature of that year came to 

 fulfill the campaign pledges of both great political organizations 

 to support an anti-tuberculosis campaign, they deliberately voted 

 $1,000,000 to the Department of Health to start the work. This 

 was done so that the organization incident to the conducting of a 

 chain of dispensaries and the building of tuberculosis sanatoria 

 for the poor might be worked out along the same lines followed in 

 the organization of the new Health Department. To properly 

 undertake this new line of work, two new divisions were organized 

 — one of Tuberculosis Sanatoria and the other of Dispensaries. 



This tuberculosis work lay nearest Dr. Dixon's heart and into 

 its organization he put the best that was in him. Tweiity-three 

 hundred free beds in three great sanatoria in the Pennsylvania 

 mountains, and one hundred and fifteen dispensaries, each with its 

 quota of physicians and nurses, followed. 



The work of these various divisions was extended and broadened 

 from time to time, each division taking on its new load as directed 

 by the Commissioner. Year after year elapsed. Dr. Dixon being 

 appointed by Governor after Governor, and from time to time 

 the Legislature broadened and made heavier the load by providing 

 additional lines of work and liberal funds for its execution. 



In 1915 a Bureau of Housing was created. An organization had 

 to be planned to direct work over the entire State with the exception 

 of first class cities, working for the most part through local health 

 organizations in boroughs, second and third class cities. The 

 Bureau was planned to improve living conditions of the poor, and 

 especially to improve sanitary conditions as affecting the lives 

 and health of infants and children and of workers. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [April, 



Division of Public Service. — A law enacted during the same 

 session of the Legislature provided for the medical inspection of 

 hotel and restaurant employes, and prohibited the use of the 

 common towel and public drinking cup. An adcUtional division 

 had to be organized for handling this work. During the last months 

 of Dr. Dixon's life three additional divisions were planned. 



First, a Division for the control of the sale of narcotics, created 

 by a special Act of 1917. 



Second, a Division of Child Hygiene, planned and organized to 

 meet the unusual conditions to which the lives of children would be 

 subjected during the high tension period of the war. 



Third, a Division for the Treatment of Venereal Diseases, planned 

 not only with the hope of ameliorating suffering and protecting 

 America's selective service men, but with the purpose of placing 

 witliin reach of the poor those specifics which, when properly applied, 

 might lessen the chances of visitation unto the second and third 

 generations and salvage many lives that might otherwise be 

 wrecked. 



Throughout the twelve and a half year period the Commissioner 

 of Health received from his Bureau and Division Chiefs, and through 

 them from the field forces throughout the Commonwealth, informa- 

 tion of vital importance to the public. The volume of such 

 information arriving in the central office was enormous, and the sub- 

 divisions of the Commissioner's executive staff assisted him in 

 coordinating, digesting, abstracting and reflecting back to the 

 public all those essential details helpful in keeping the public fully 

 informed as to results obtained in making them see that the prom- 

 ises held forth at the time of launching any new line of work were 

 being kept. 



The cUfficulties in the way of perfecting such an organization 

 were not always easily overcome. The Governor, as well as each of 

 his three successors, placed entire confidence in Dr. Dixon and gave 

 him full liberty in organization and freedom from political interference. 

 It is but fair to say that not a single important executive appointment 

 was made to gratify political ambition or to satisfy political recom- 

 mendation. It very often happened, later in the executive work of 

 Dr. Dixon, that the prominent political leader, who felt hurt that his 

 insistent recommendation could not be complied with, was big enough 

 and broad enough to later come back to Dr. Dixon and say, "I felt 

 at the time you refused my request that you were making a mis- 

 take in taking the attitude you did concerning the health organi- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



zation. I am convinced, however, that you are right and am glad 

 to tell you so. " 



During the time that has elapsed since the organization of the 

 Department was fairly well launched in 190Q until the end of 1917, 

 2,640,000 birth certificates, 1,500,000 death certificates, and 840,000 

 marriage certificates have been received, catalogued, bound, filed 

 and stored in fireproof vaults of the State Capitol, where they are 

 available for all legal and statistical purposes. 



Two hundred thousand persons have been quarantined in rural 

 districts for the various communicable diseases, with subsequent 

 sanitary cleansing and disinfection of premises, and breaking the con- 

 tinuous chain of infection leacUng from farmstead to town and city 

 and back again to farm. One hundred and twenty thousand dairy 

 farm inspections have been made, and 2,500,000 school children in 

 fourth class district schools have been examined with recommenda- 

 tions to parent or guardian for correcting defects. 



Two hundred and eighty-four plans for water works and sewage 

 treatment plants have been filed, studied and approved. 2,274 de- 

 crees have been issued requiring the installation of sewage works and 

 water works, and 150 separate pollutions have been removed from 

 streams. 



One hundred and seven thousand three hundred and sixty-three 

 patients have been treated at the tuberculosis cUspensaries. 1,250,- 

 348 visits have been made to the homes of these patients for the 

 purpose of giving practical teaching and sanitary instruction. Nearly 

 30,000 poor patients have been treated and educated at the Depart- 

 ment's tuberculosis sanatoria. 



The amount of work done in the Division of Laboratories for 

 physicians of the Commonwealth was enormous, more than 20,000 

 specimens being examined monthly and scientific reports made to 

 the family doctor. 



Since the distribution of antitoxin was begun in 1905 until the 

 end of the last statistical year 300,000 packages of diphtheria anti- 

 toxin were distributed free to the poor, 2,000 persons have been 

 immunized against tetanus; nearly 50,000 against, smallpox; and 

 large numbers of persons were immunized against typhoid fever. 



During the twelve and three quarter years' period when Dr. 

 Dixon was Commissioner of Health in the Commonwealth of 

 Pennsylvania there was appropriated to his Department and 

 expended in the promotion of public health, including the treating 

 of the tuberculous sick, more than twenty million dollars of State 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF AT)ril, 



funds, and yet no criticism of this expenditure has been uttered. 

 During this period in his official capacity as Commissioner of Health, 

 he superintended activities extending to every municipality in 

 the Commonwealth. He exercised advisory and supervisory control 

 over the many public health organizations in the State, always 

 leading and setting an example in every line of public health work. 

 These many smaller health organizations, recognizing Dr. Dixon as 

 a central figure, and stimulated by his work, exerted themselves to 

 their utmost. The resulting saving of life is shown by the fact that 

 in the year 1906 when the State Health Department was reorganized, 

 the death rate in the State was 16 per thousand, and in 1917 it had 

 declined to 14.7. This indicates a saving of 1.20,266 lives in the 

 Commonwealth. ""~^, 



As a fitting stamp of approval of the sanitary work of Dr. Dixon, 

 the Pennsylvania State Medical Society, after eleven years of enforc- 

 ing police law (and sometimes in a drastic way against medical men) , 

 elected him to its highest office. He passed away while serving as 

 President of the Society. His death was mourned most sincerely. 

 The editorial notices written after Dr. Dixon's death were most un- 

 usual and show how he had inspired the confidence of the people. 



Dr. Conklin.^ — The addresses to which we have just listened 

 have revealed to us a man of unusual ability and achievements, 

 one who succeeded not merely in one profession but in several, and 

 who has left upon his city. State and nation an enduring impression. 

 "Si monumentum quaeris, circumspice. " He died too soon, in 

 the thick of work, in the midst of public service. Now he rests 

 from his labors and his works do follow him. Peace to his ashes. 

 honor to his memory. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



139 



ON THE GENERIC POSITION OF SONORELLA. WOLCOTTIANA BARTSCH. 



BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



Sonoj'ella wolcottiana, described from Palm Springs, a health resort 

 at the foot of the San Jacinto Mountains, not far from the Southern 

 Pacific Railroad, has been known hitherto by the original specimens 

 collected by Mrs. H. T. Wolcott in 1903 and by a small series taken 

 by Messrs. Morgan Hebard and J. A. G. Rehn in 1910. Unfortu- 

 nately, all of these were dead shells. From the close correspondence 

 of the shell to the Sonorellas of Arizona and New Mexico, the species 

 was naturally referred to that genus. The receipt of iiving speci- 

 mens taken early in March by Dr. Emmet Rixford of San Francisco, 

 enables me to transfer it to the genus Micrarionta, chiefly known by 

 coast Helices, such sis facta, gabbi, kelleti, stearnsiana, etc. It appears 

 that a group of this genus has been adapted to the arid interior, where 

 they have assumed the appearance of the desert group Sonorella. 



Fig, 1. — Genitalia of Micrariontn wolcottiana. In the right figure another view 

 of the 9 organs, d, Diverticuhim of the spermathecal duct; ds, dart sack; 

 fl, flagellum, g, mucous glands; ov, oviduct; p, penis; pr, retractor of the 

 penis; sp, duct of the spermatheca. The mucous glands are shaded to show 

 their forms more distinctly. 



The reproductive organs are illustrated for comparison with Son- 

 orella and other Micrariontas. It will be seen that on each side of the 

 11 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



base of the dart sack, the duct of a mucous gland arises. Each diict 

 ascends and expands into a bulb, then is contracted, recurved upon 

 itself, descending, becoming flattened in form of a long, thin-walled 

 gland adhering to the vagina. For the sake of distinctness, these 

 glands and their ducts are shaded in the figures. As usual in the 

 genus, one of the mucous glands rises high over the dart sack, the 

 other being lower, and concealed behind the dart sack in the left 

 hand figure. The spermatheca has an extremely long, thin duct, 

 which bears a long, slender diverticulum. The specimens did not 

 pull well, and the upper part of the oviduct, the albumen gland, sper- 

 matheca and ovotestis were broken off. 



Length of penis 6.5 mm. 



'' " epiphallus 5 " 



" " flagellum 7 



" " vagina 7 " 



" "dart sack 3 



Doctor Rixford writes as follows: "About the first of March I 

 spent a few days at Palm Springs, Cal., on the eastern edge of San 

 Jacinto Mountain, and had opportunity to get a few snails. I 

 found only the one variety and no other shells except a small Physa 

 which I take to be a common Physa of the West Coast. The Helix 

 I have not been able to identify. Judging by the number of dead 

 shells, it must be very nmnerous in that region, but because it had 

 rained shortly before mj' visit the live shells were much scattered, 

 having left their summer quarters. On the under surfaces of rocks 

 I found markings of large colonies. In this region the rainfall is 

 only an inch or so a year and the summer temperature much above 

 100 F. The rocks arc granitic." 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



A NEW CHARACIN FROM PARAGUAY, 

 BY HENRY W. FOWLER. 



Recently the Academy received a small collection from Senor 

 A. De W. Bertoni, secured at Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay. As this 

 contains several interesting fishes : Otocinclus vittatus Regan, Parodon 

 paraguayensis Eigenmann, Phalloceros caudimaculatus (Hensel) and 

 the Characin belonging to the Tetragonopterinae described below, 

 this note has been prepared. The Academy is indebted to Senor 

 Bertoni for these interesting gifts to its Museum. 



BERTONIOLUS gen. nov. 



Type, Bertoniolus paraguayensis sp. nov. 



Preventral region evenly convex. Maxillary slips below preorbital 

 or only about half its upper edge shielded. Upper teeth 5 each side 

 in inner row as in Moenkhausia, and outer series in row parallel. 

 Mandibular teeth uniserial. Upper lip covers premaxillary teeth. 

 Gill-rakers lanceolate. All scales cycloid. Predorsal scales uniform 

 in size. Preventral with normal scales. Anal with rather broad 

 basal scaly sheath its entire length. Caudal base covered with 

 large scales. Lateral line complete, slightly decurved, parallel 

 with rows of scales below. 



Allied to Moenkhausia Eigenmann and Markiana Eigemnann. 

 From the former it is distinguished by the second suborbital in 

 contact mth the preopercle below, a point in agreement with Knodus. 

 It differs from Knodus in the 5 teeth each side in the inner upper 

 row, a character in agreement with Moenkhausia. Markiana 

 Eigenmann somewhat resembles it, but the anal is more scaly and 

 its unequal short lobed caudal is quite different. In Bryconamericus 

 the caudal scales are small, not large as in this genus. 



One species in the Parama basin. (For Senor A. De W. Bertoni, 

 the accomplished naturalist of Peurto Bertoni, Paraguay.) 



Bertoniolus paraguayensis sp. nov. 



Head 3|; depth 2f ; D. ii, 9; A. ii, 27; P. i, 11; V. i, 7; scales 43 

 in 1. 1. to caudal base and 3 more on latter; 9 scales above 1. 1. and 10 

 below; about 17 predorsal scales; head width 2 in its length; head 

 depth over eye center 1|; snout 3^; eye oh; maxillary 21; interorbital 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



2|; first branched dorsal ray 1; first branched anal ray If; least 

 depth of caudal peduncle 2j; upper caudal lobe 1; pectoral 1^; 

 ventral If. 



Body elongately ovoid in contour, deepest at dorsal origin, lower 

 profile more evenly convex in front than upper, and well compressed. 

 Predorsal with very slight median ridge, otherwise body edges 

 convex. Caudal peduncle compressed, about long as deep. 



Head moderate, upper profile slightly concave and lower little 

 more inclined and convex. Snout convex, short, length half its 

 width. Eye rounded, hind pupil edge little before center in head 

 length. Mouth moderate, horizontal and closed jaws about even. 



i£p 



/^:vi{VL/5!)!i>=— 



Lips rather tough, and upper firm, lower broadly free. Teeth 

 alike in jaws, upper biserial with 8 outside and 10 inside, former 

 shorter and tridentate and latter quindentate. Lower jaw with 

 8 large mostly quindentate teeth and third one each side from front 

 shghtly enlarged. Apparently no maxillary teeth. Inner buccal 

 folds thin, moderate. Maxillary slender, slightly oblique from 

 vertical, extends little below eye, and expansion about 3 in eye. 

 Tongue with free edges, elongate, smooth. Mandible moderately 

 deep or rami little elevated in mouth. Nostrils together, close to 

 upper front eye edge. Interorbital convex. Suborbitals broad, 

 and lowest infraorbital entirely covers cheek. Preopercle edge entire. 

 Suborbitals and opercle each with marginal obsolete striai. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Gill-opening forward to front eye edge. Rakers 10 + 10, lanceo- 

 late, slender, about f of filaments, and latter 2 in eye. Pseudo- 

 branehiie about half of gill-filaments. Isthmus slender. 



Scales cycloid, rather narrowly imbricated, in lengthwise rows 

 parallel with 1. 1. and become slightly smaller along ventral edge. 

 Caudal with broad basal scaly area, also whole basal extent of anal. 

 L. 1. complete, slightly decurved, and each scale with short tube, 

 exposure about half of each scale exposure. Ventral with scaly 

 axillary flap about | length of fin. 



Dorsal origin about midway between snout tip and hind edge of 

 adipose fin, first branched ray longest and depressed fin half way to 

 caudal base. Origin of adipose fin little nearer depressed dorsal 

 tip than caudal base, adipose fin about long as eye. Anal with 

 long base, first branched ray highest and fin edge nearly straight, 

 so anal origin nearly opposite hind dorsal edge or about midway 

 between hind preopercle edge and caudal base. Caudal well forked, 

 pointed lobes similar, with, lower slightly longer. Pectoral low, 

 reaches slightly beyond ventral origin though not quite to that 

 of dorsal. Ventral inserted nearer anal than pectoral origin, fin 

 reaching latter. Vent close before anal. 



Color in alcohol faded dull brownish generally, though back slightly 

 darker than other regions. A pale sheen, as if silver}^ in life, along- 

 middle of side, though narrowing on caudal peduncle side where 

 giving place to slight dusky tint and then continued out on caudal 

 medianly to liind edge as blackish streak. Iris pale slaty. Black 

 ellipsoid spot, little smaller than eye, at shoulder. Dorsal slightly 

 tinged with dusky, and fins otherwise pale. 



Length 97 mm. 



Type No. 47, 686, A. N. S. P. Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay. Senor 

 A. De W. Bertoni. 



Only the type known, quite distinct from the allied species of 

 Bnjconamericus and Markiana, etc. The dentition, shown to the 

 left below in the accompanying figure, is enlarged a little over twice 

 that of the indicated line of proportion for the profile drawing. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ON A COLLECTION OF OKTHOPTERA FROM THE STATE OF PARA, BRAZIL. 



iBY JAMES A. G. REHN. 



The present study is based on material collected at two localities 

 in the State of Para, and all of which is now in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. The localities 

 represented are Igarape-assii and the vicinity of the city of Para. 

 The former locality is about one hundred and twenty miles east of 

 the city of Para, off the main line of the railroad between Para 

 and Branganga and in primaeval forest conditions.^ The material 

 from this locality was secured by Mr. H. S. Parish of Toronto, 

 Canada, while that from the vicinity of Para was taken by Prof. 

 C. F. Baker, while attached to the Museu Goeldi at Para. Portions 

 of both series have already been recorded by the present author in 

 connection with studies of other series of Brazihan material,^ a total 

 of forty-eight previously known and seven new species having been 

 reported from the series now completely studied. These figures 

 are not included in the totals here given. 



In the present paper are discussed one hundred and nine species, 

 representing seventy-one genera, of which twenty-two species and 

 two genera are described as new. The number of specimens 

 represented is four hundred and twenty-one. 



DERMAPTERA. 



FORFICULID^. 

 Doru lineare (EschschoUz). 



1822. Forficula linearis Eschscholtz, Entomogr., p. 81. [Santa Catharina, 

 Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. One female. 



ORTHOPTERA. 



BLATTID^. 



Ectobiinse. 

 Anaplecta replicata Saussure and Zehntner. 



1893. Anapleda replicata Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., 

 I, p. 25, pi. IV, fig. 12. [Pernambuco, Brazil.] 



1 The general features of this region have been entertainingly described by Dr. 

 Emilie Snethlage, Director of the Museu Goeldi, in a recent number of the Geo- 

 graphical Review (IV, pp. 41 to 50, 1917). 



2 The Stanford Expedition to Brazil, 1911, J. C. Branner, Director. Dermap- 

 tera and Orthoptera I. Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, pp. 215 to 308, (1916). 



The Stanford Expedition to Brazil, 1911, J. C. Branner, Director. Orthoptera 

 II. Ibid., XLIII, pp. 89 to 154, (1917). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



Igarape-assu. Three males. 



These specimens fully agree with the description of the species. 

 The status of three unquestionably related forms, i. e. lateralis 

 Burmeister, minutissima (DeGeer)^ and pumila (Stal), we are 

 compelled to leave in abeyance for the present, although it is quite 

 probable that one at least is the same as the present species. The 

 original descriptions are so brief that little other than the general 

 relationship of the species can be ascertained from them, and the 

 desired more detailed information can only be gleaned from the 

 types or topotypic material. 

 Anaplecta bivittata Bnmner. 



1865. A[naplecta] bivittata Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 63. [Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This specimen shows some points of difference from the original 

 description, but it is apparently the same species. The head is not 

 wholly rust color, as described, the interocular region of the vertex 

 being blackish brown, while the tegminal maculation does not 

 reach the costal margin of the same, but does, however, border 

 the humeral trunk to the distal squarely truncate margin of the 

 maculation. 



This is apparently the first definite locality for the species. 



Pseudomopinse. 



Pseudomops annulicornis (Burmeister). 



1838. Th[yrsocera] annulicornis Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. 

 II, pt. 1, p. 500. [Bahia, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. Two males, four females. 



These specimens fully agree with the description of Walker's 

 Pseudomops deceptura from an unknown locality, which is considered 

 a synonym of Burmeister 's species by Shelf ord. The original 

 description of annulicornis is extremely brief, so little can be learned 



3 We cannot agree with Shelf ord in his placing this species as a Holocompsa 

 (Trans. Entom. Soc. London, 1908, p. 464) from the evidence of the alleged type. 

 The description and figure given by DeGeer are undoubtedly of an Anaplecta 

 and it is not at all difficult to see which species are its closest relatives. It seems 

 evident that Shelford did not see the material on which DeGeer based his species 

 and ad interim the Holocompsa specimen was probably by accident associated with 

 DeGeer's label. DeGeer's original description says of the insect: "Sa couleur 

 est d'un brun noiratre et tres luisant; c'est aussi la couleur de la plaque du corce- 

 let, qui est arrondie, mais dont les deux bords lateraux sont blancs & tres trans- 

 parents." This would clearly apply to an Anaplecta of the present group and 

 certain other characters mentioned, as the folding of the wings, make the identifi- 

 cation even stronger. The redescription of the "type" by Shelford presents the 



following features comparable to those quoted above from DeGeer: "Head 



with rufous pubescence. Pronotum fuscous with a recumbent rufous pubescence. 

 Tegmina with marginal area with rufous pubescence." Further comment seems 

 unnecessary. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj^, 



from it. In all of the specimens the head, the two distal joints of 

 the palpi, the extremities of the femora and tibiae and the tarsi are 

 black or blackish. In no case is the usual dark transverse arcuate 

 bar of the pronotal disk strongly marked. 



The only previous records of the species are from Bahia (Bur- 

 meister), Para (Rehn) and Porto Velho, Rio Madeira, interior 

 Brazil (Rehn). 



Pseudomops affinis (Burmeister). 



1838. Th[yrsocera] affinis Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 499. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assii. Two females. December, 1911 (one). [One; 

 Cornell University.] 



Para and Surinam are the only localities from which the species 

 was i^reviously known. 



Pseudomops angusta Walker. 



1868. Pseudomops angusta Walker, Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 81. [San- 

 tarem, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. One female. 



As in material already recorded by us,^ this specimen differs 

 from the original description in the palpi being entirely black, the 

 femora blackish dorsad and the cerci almost entirely black. 

 Ischnoptera crispula n. sp. (Pl. I, figs. 1-4.) 



A species showing certain affinities with the inca group on one hand 

 and with the tnarginata, castanea-rubiginosa group on the other. 

 It is- apparently allied to I. hebes Walker,^ from Santarem, Brazil, 

 agreeing in the general form, the small size, the widely separated 

 eyes, the setose antennae, the thinly pilose pronotum and tegmina 

 and most of the color features, but differing in the limbs being in 

 large part fuscous instead of "pale testaceous," in the abdomen 

 having the fourth ventral segment uniformly dark with remainder 

 of the same surface of the abdomen, instead of ''tawny" as in hebes, 

 while the tegmina have the marginal field, and to a lesser degree the 

 costal margin of the tegmina, pale ochraceous and sharply contrasted 

 with the remainder of the tegmina. The genital features of the present 

 species are quite distinctive. We are able to give only color differences 

 to separate the species, as all the structural features mentioned by 

 Walker for hebes are shared by the present species, but our experience 

 with the species of this section of the genus indicates that beyond 

 certain permissible fluctuations color features are well fixed. An 



^ Trans. Amer. Entom. Soe., XLII, p. 224, (1916). 

 6 Catal. Blatt. Brit. Mus., p. 122, (1868). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



examination of the original material of hebes will, in all probability, 

 show the older species possesses characteristic genital features. 



Type: o" ; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) (Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5316.) 



Size very small: form moderately depressed: surface moderately 

 polished, of the head, pronotum, tegmina and limbs with sparse, 

 but distinct, erect hairs. Head for its full width visible cephalad 

 of the pronotum, the outline of the e3'es and occiput regularly 

 arcuate; interspace between the eyes very broad, equal to one and 

 one-half times the depth of the adjacent portion of the eye: ocelli 

 elliptical, oblique in position, the interspace between them subequal 

 to that between the eyes; palpi with the third joint slightlj" longer 

 than the fourth, fifth appreciably longer than the third and moderately 

 inflated, excavate face obliquely truncate for the greater portion 

 of the length of the joint: antennse faintly exceeding the body in 

 length, rather sparsely but regularly setose. Pronotum subtrapez- 

 oid in outline, the greatest width, which is distinctly caudad of the 

 middle, contained one and one-half times in the greatest length of the 

 same; cephalic margin moderately arcuate, rounding into the but 

 weakly arcuate, diverging lateral margins, caudo-lateral angles well 

 rounded, caudal margin moderately arcuate, all the margins dis- 

 tinctly though narrowly cingulate: in transverse section the disk is 

 flattened dorsad and distinctly and roundly declivent laterad; sur- 

 face unimpressed. Tegmina lanceolate-elliptical, the greatest width 

 contained slightly more than three times in the greatest length of the 

 tegmen, distal section surpassing apex of abdomen by nearly the 

 dorsal length of the pronotum: costal margin moderately arcuate 

 proximad and distad; sutural margin in greater portion straight, 

 distad regularly arcuate to the broad and well rounded apex, which is 

 more costal in position: marginal field relatively narrow and abbrevi- 

 ate ; anal field elongate pyrif orm, reaching to two-fifths the length of 

 the tegmen: discoidal vein with sixteen costal rami, several of the 

 clistal ones of which are bifurcate; median vein with four rami (made 

 up by bifurcation of two main rami) ; ulnar vein with three to four 

 rami, the number of both median and ulnar rami very difficult to 

 determine owing to the anastomosing of the veins in the proximal 

 portion of the discoidal field; anal sulcus regularly arcuate in proxi- 

 mal half, straighter distad except for the short distal arcuation near 

 the junction with the sutural margin; axillary veins fourteen in 

 number, as the usually weak adventitious veins are equal in strength 

 to the usually more pronounced principal veins. Wings with the 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May^ 



costal margin straight oblique proximad, very gently arcuate distad, 

 with a faint flattening at the middle of the arcuation: anterior field 

 very broad, broadly rounded distad; intercalated triangle distinct 

 but small: costal veins eleven in number, in general regularly oblique^ 

 simple and non-clavate; medio-discoidal area in general faintly wider 

 than the medio-ulnar area, divided into moderately regular, subquad- 

 rate areolse by thirteen cross-veins; median, vein simple, direct, un- 

 branched; medio-ulnar area with similar but less numerous and more 

 oblong areolae; ulnar vein with two complete and seven incomplete 

 rami; axillary vein with two rami. Sixth and seventh dorsal ab- 

 dominal segments with the structure characteristic of Ischnoptera:^ 

 supra-anal plate large, semi-ovate, very shallowly arcuato-emarginate 

 mesad; slightly sinuate near the cereal bases, peripheral margin and 

 its vicinity with scattered, erect hairs; ventral surface of the plate 

 with a long dextral, subchitinous tooth, which is directed meso- 

 ventrad: cerci moderately elongate, fusiform, depressed, apex nar- 

 rowly blunted; subgenital plate moderately asymmetrical, sinistral 

 portion of plate arcuate-emarginate ventrad of the cercus, mesal 

 portion of plate similar, the area between obliquely sinuato-truncate, 

 the sinistral style situated sinistrad on the same section, dextral side 

 of the plate deeply rectangulate-emarginate, the dextral style situated 

 on the apex of the rounded lobe between the median and dextral 

 emarginations ; styles short, thick, fusiform, unequal, with distal 

 extremity arcuate aciculate; margin of the plate closely haired, dorsal 

 surface of the subgenital plate having at the base of the dextral style 

 a lamellate, suberect, subchitinous process, the free margin of which is 

 unequally bilobate. Cephalic femora armed ventro-cephalad with a 

 typical Ischnoptera spine arrangement.'' 



General color blackish brown, the trochanters, ventral surface of 

 the femora, dorsal surface of the tibiae and flecks on the tarsi ochrace- 

 ous-buff. Head with the interocular region faintly reddish; eyes 

 black; ocelli naples yellow. Pronotum with the margins, except 

 for the median section of the caudal margin, narrowly ferruginous. 

 Tegmina with the marginal field and an evanescent edging of the 

 scapular field light ochraceous buff. Wings infumate. 



Length of body, 7.6 mm.; length of pronotum, 2.3; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 3; length of tegmen, 7.6; greatest width of tegmen, 2.4. 



The type is unique. 



6 See Hebard, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 339 to 340, pis. XVI and 

 XVII, (1916). 



7 See Hebard, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XIJI, p. .340, pi. XVII, fig. 1, (1916). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



Ischnoptera oastanea Saussure. (Pi. I, figs. 13, 14.) 



1869. I[schnopterd\ castanea Saussure, Revue et Maga.sin de Zoologie, 2e 

 ser., XXI, p. 112. [Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description, as far as it 

 supplies characters derived from the female sex. As the male genital 

 characters have never been described, the following notes on the same 

 should prove of assistance. 



Supra-anal plate moderately transverse, the margin broadly arcu- 

 ate, appreciably flattened in the middle and there very weakly bilo- 

 bate, cereal emargination decided, regularly concave, margin between 

 apex and cereal emargination moderately arcuate; surface of plate 

 sub-depressed proximo-laterad, with a distinct, broad, median im- 

 pression on distal half: distal portion of margin very sparsely haired: 

 ventral surface of supra-anal plate with patches of short, agglutinated 

 hairs on the faint lobes of the distal margin, also meso-laterad on the 

 body of the plate, while a distinct, tuberculiform node is situated 

 immediately mesad of the dextral cercus; immediately mesad of the 

 sinistral cercus there projects ventrad a heavy, claw-like process, 

 which is nearly straight and robust in the proximal two-thirds, thence 

 sharply bent mesad and straight acuminate: from immediately ven- 

 trad of the dextral cercus springs an unpaired lamellate, articulate 

 process, a portion of the internal genitalia, the dorsal surface of the 

 same bearing in proximal two-thirds a carinate ridge, the apical sec- 

 tion rotated dorsad and weakly rostrate, bearing five distmct teeth: 

 genital hook slender, bent recurved, the apex slightlj'^ flattened. Sub- 

 genital plate faintly asymmetrical, with dextral, sinistral and median 

 emarginations, between which are short, truncate projections of the 

 margin of the plate; sinistral emargination broad, faintly angled 

 mesad; median emargination regular; dextral emargination small 

 but deep and rectangulate; styles unequal in size and development, 

 the sinistral large, straight proximad, acuminate distad, distal half 

 decurved; dextral style smaller, regularly acuminate, decurved; 

 margin of the plate and styles sparsely haired; dorsal surface of the 

 subgenital plate at base of dextral style with an erect, laterad directed, 

 lamellate lobe, bearing at the internal angle of the apex a distinct, 

 dentiform spine. 



Ischnoptera imparata n. .sp. (Pi. I, figs. 5-8.) 



This peculiar species appears to be allied on one hand to I. castanea 

 Saussure, and on the other to I. amazonica Rehn,^ but it can be recog- 



8 Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 225, (1916). 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



nized at once by its distinctive form, with tegmina not surpassing 

 the apex of the abdomen, and the type of the male genitalia. 



Type: d"; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) (Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Tj^e no. 5317.) 



Size very small: form elongate elliptical; surface moderately 

 polished, sparsely pilose, more heavily so on the limbs. Head ex- 

 posed cephalad of the pronotum for the greater portion of its width; 

 interspace between the eyes moderately broad, very faintly less than 

 that between the ocelli, which latter are ovate : antennae one and one- 

 half times as long as the body, closely moniliform, proximal joint 

 faintly shorter than the interspace between the eyes: palpi with the 

 third joint simple, the fourth elongate funnel-shaped, slightly shorter 

 than the third joint, fifth joint moderately inflated, greatest depth at 

 proximal third. Pronotum weakly transverse, the greatest length 

 contained one and one-third times in the greatest width and the 

 latter placed faintly caudad of the middle, general form subtrapezoid ; 

 cephalic margin broadly subtruncate, rounding laterad into the lateral 

 margins, which are moderately diverging caudad, faintly arcuate on 

 cephalic two-thirds, thence sharply arcuate to the obtuse caudo- 

 lateral angles; caudal margin arcuato-truncate : disk moderately 

 deplanate, with distinct diverging sulci; narrow lateral portions 

 distinctly deflexed. Tegmina surpassing the apex of the abdomen 

 by less than the length of the pronotum, lanceolate: costal margin 

 moderately arcuate proximad, thence nearly straight to the narrowly 

 rounded apex, which is costal in position; sutural margin straight, 

 except for a short proximal section and distad rounding into the 

 strongly oblique, arcuato-truncate, distal margin: marginal field 

 very narrow, in length nearly equal to two-fifths of the entire tegmen : 

 anal field elongate pyriform, in length equal to about one-half of the 

 tegminal length: costal veins fourteen to fifteen in number; discoidal 

 sectors longitudinal, six in number, with distinct, longitudinal, inter- 

 calated nervures and regularly placed transverse nervures, which 

 form rectangulate interspaces; anal sulcus sharply curved distad and 

 joining the sutural margin at a right angle; axillary veins closely 

 placed, with regular intercalated and cross nervures, their structure 

 merged to such an extent that a count is not warranted. Wings 

 falling slightly short of the apex of the tegmina when in repose, great- 

 est width contained one and two-thirds times in greatest length: 

 •costal margin regularly arcuate; apex broadlj^ rotundato-rectangu- 

 late; peripheral margin more amply arcuate distad than usual: an- 

 terior field relatively'' very broad; intercalated triangle distinct but 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



small: mediastine vein straight in the greater portion of its length, 

 bearing eight costal veins, remainder of costal veins seven in nmnber, 

 all non-clavate; discoidal vein almost straight; medio-discoidal area 

 broad, divided by sixteen regularly placed, transverse nervures into 

 subquadrate areolets; median vein arcuato-sinuate ; medio-ulnar 

 area narrower than the medio-discoidal area, similarly divided, but 

 with veins fewer and less distinct; ulnar vein with one complete 

 ramus, which is bifurcate close to its origin, and three incomplete 

 rami; axillary vein biramose. Dorsal abdominal segments of the 

 type characteristic of Ischnoptera:^ supra-anal plate transverse, 

 lateral margins regularly converging caudad, the distal margin trun- 

 cate, its vicinity with long, sparse hairs ; when viewed from the caudal 

 aspect there is seen to be dextrad, briefly mesad of the cercus, a thick, 

 curved projection, which points mesad, and is distinctly tapering 

 distad, the whole structure well hidden under the margin; cerci 

 relative heavy, rather short, subequal in width for the greater por- 

 tion of the length, rather abruptly tapering distad, depressed dorsad, 

 rounded ventrad, with a close, adpressed coat of short hairs and scat- 

 tered, erect, long hairs: subgenital plate moderately asymmetrical; 

 sinistral margin with a broad, deep emargination ventrad of the cer- 

 cus, relatively short, median section concave-truncate, dextrad of 

 which is a short, deeply arcuate emargination, with a moderate pro- 

 jection separating it from the oblique subtruncate and then (proxi- 

 mad) arcuate remainder of the same margin; both principal emargi- 

 nations with their margins somewhat thickened and the plate there 

 appreciably convex in section, between them the plate is concave dis- 

 tad; styles unequal, the sinistral one twice as large as the dextral, 

 situated at the lateral angles of the median subtruncate section, in- 

 crassate, tapering, with the apex bispinose, the distal spine larger, 

 decurved, the other spine situated slightly proximad of the apex, 

 straighter; when viewed from the caudal aspect the plate is seen to 

 have an incrassate arm extending mesad from the projection of the 

 dextral margin, this arm reaching to the median line of the body, 

 supplied at the apex with long hairs and on the cephalic face with a 

 number of spines : genital hook sinistral in position, the distal portion 

 sinuate, V-shaped, narrowed at the bend of the structure, slightly 

 thickened and blunt distad. Cephalic femora with ventro-cephalic 

 margin with four large, proximo-mesal spines, these followed distad 

 by a regular series of very short, fine spines; distal spines three in 



9 See Hebard, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, pp. .339 to 340, pis. XVI and 

 XVII, (1916). 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



number, the extreme distal the larger: median and caudal femora 

 with ventral margins regularly and heavily spined, genicular spine 

 large: caudal tarsi with metatarsus distinctly longer than the re- 

 maining joints combined, ventral surface strongly biseriate, pul villi 

 small. 



General color above and on the venter of the abdomen argus brown, 

 paling to antique brown on the veins distad on the tegmina. Head 

 deep blackish fuscous, except for the mouth-parts, labrum and distal 

 half of the clypeus; eyes prout's brown; cUstal palpal joint 

 weakly washed with mummy browTi; ocelli zinc orange; antennae 

 blackish fuscous, slightly paler proximad and distad. Pronotum 

 with a relatively broad cephalic and lateral border of ochraceous- 

 buff , the bounding line of the two shades appreciably sinuate laterad. 

 Tegmina with the general color strongest at the base of the marginal 

 iield, this, in the same area, sharply giving way to ochraceous-buff, 

 which passes distad into a weak shade of the general coloration; 

 distal section of the tegmina very pale, as is the normally covered 

 section of the right tegmen. Wings weakly infuscate, becoming 

 ochraceous distad, the veins similarly but more opaquely colored. 

 Abdomen faintly darker than the general dorsal coloration, more 

 deeply infuscate laterad, the dorsal abdominal fold ochraceous-buff, 

 surrounded by deep fuscous; styles deep fuscous. Limbs ochraceous- 

 buff, coxae each with a proximal blotch of fuscous, those of the cephalic 

 coxae much smaller than those of the other limbs. 



Length of body, 7.3 mm.; length of pronotum, 2.4; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 2.9; length of tegmen, 6.4; greatest width of tegmen, 

 2.2. 



The type is unique. 

 Ischnoptera clavator n. sp. (PI. I, figs. 9-12). 



Allied to /. amazonico}^ Rehn, from northern Brazil, but differing 

 in the deeper color pattern, more inflated distal palpal joint and 

 the radically different genitalia of the male, the subgenital plate 

 ■of which bears a relatively large club-like appendage. The supra-anal 

 plate of the female of clavator is distinctly U-emarginate mesad, 

 -while that of amazonica is entire. The species shows relationship 

 to /. ruhiginosa Walker, having a similarity in the form of the male 

 .supra-anal plate, but clavator is a larger species with more convergent 

 ■eyes, a less strongly transverse pronotum, more elongate tegmina 

 and wings, and decidedly different development of the subgenital 

 plate and styles of the male. The female of rubiginosa has the 



10 Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 225, (1916). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



supra-anal plate trigonal With the lateral margins sinuate-emarginate 

 and the apex well rounded and entire, instead of U-emarginate 

 as in clavator. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 lAcad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5319.] 



Size small: form elongate elliptical, strongly depressed: surface 

 glabrous. Head distinctly projecting cephalad of the pronotum: 

 interspace between the eyes very narrow, hardly more than half 

 that between the ocellar spots, which latter distance is subequal 

 to the greatest length of one of the spots, the spots are large, sub- 

 reniform in outline: eyes with their greatest cephalic depth equal 

 to about one and one-half times the interocellar width: antennae 

 slightly longer than the body, moderately hirsute, second and third 

 joints together about two-thirds as long as the proximal joint: 

 third palpal joint of moderate length, slightly arcuate; fourth palpal 

 joint two-thirds as long as third, slightly and evenly enlarging 

 distad; fifth palpal joint slightly longer than the third, inflated, 

 sublanceolate, apex subacute. Pronotum roundly trapezoidal, but 

 moderately transverse, the greatest length contained one and one- 

 half times in the greatest width; cephalic margin weakly arcuate, 

 broadly rounding into the diverging, distinctly arcuate, lateral 

 margins, which pass through the obtusely rounded caudo-lateral 

 angles into the arcuato-truncate caudal margin, all margins finely 

 cingulate and supphed with sparse, well-spaced, long hairs, the 

 •cephalic margin, however, with a series of short hairs : disk of prono- 

 tum weakly arcuate in section, appreciably declivent laterad, the 

 immediate margin slightly reflexed; oblique sulci indicated but 

 slightly irregular in impression, caudal section of disk weakly 

 depressed. Tegmina elongate lanceolate, surpassing the apex of 

 the abdomen by nearly the length of the pronotum, the width at 

 the distal third greater than that at the proximal third: costal 

 margin straight except for a short proximal arcuation and a brief 

 distal rounding to the apex, which is at the tip of the median vein 

 and very narrowly rounded; sutural margin in general straight, 

 except at distal third, where it regularly and broadly rounds to the 

 immediate apex: marginal field narrow, its distal extremity not 

 ■quite reaching to the proximal third of the tegmen; scapular field 

 moderately wide, subequal in width; anal field elongate pyriform: 

 costal veins very numerous, regular in position; discoidal rami 

 longitudinal, nine in number (aside from the discoidal vein itself), 

 intercalated nerv-ures regular and all connected by closely placed 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and generally regular, transverse sectors; anal sulcus impressed, 

 moderately, strongly arcuate distad, jointing the sutural margin 

 faintly distad of the proximal third; axillary veins and their numer- 

 ous intercalated accessories regularly placed. Wings reaching 

 almost to the apex of the abdomen, broad, their greatest width 

 contained almost t^\'ice in their greatest length; costal margin 

 largely straight oblique proximad, gently arcuate distad, the apex 

 well rounded rectangulate and entirely in the anterior field; periph- 

 eral margin of the posterior field regularly arcuate, except for the 

 frequent, short, bulging arcuation at the apex of the axillary vein 

 and rami; intercalated triangle very small; mediastine vein largely 

 straight oblique; discoidal vein straight proximad, weakly arcuate 

 distad; costal veins (including the more distinct ones arising from 

 the mediastine vein) twenty-one in number, oblique, non-clavate; 

 medio-chscoidal area distinctly narrower than the medio-ulnar area, 

 appreciably narrowing distad, with the transverse rami rather 

 regularly placed, twenty in number, the majority weakly bent 

 arcuate, the areolets generally subquadrate; median vein simple, 

 of much the same curve as the cUscoidal vein; medio-ulnar area 

 with the transverse rami less numerous than those of the medio- 

 discoidal area, fifteen in number, incomplete costad, the areolets 

 more rhomboid than quadrate: ulnar vein with two complete and 

 seven incomplete rami; axillary vein with two rami cUverging 

 slightly proximad of the middle. Abdomen with the disto-dorsal 

 segments having the structure usual in Ischnoptera: supra-anal 

 plate in general subquadrate, very faintly transverse; distal margin 

 bisarcuate laterad of a shallow, median, arcuate emargination, the 

 whole margin, but particularly these arcuate portions, supplied 

 with long bristle-like hairs; surface of disto-dorsal section of the 

 plate with two areas of impression:" cerci elongate, styliform, 

 acuminate, depressed dorsad, rounded ventrad, strongly hirsute: 

 subgenital plate asymmetrical; free margin sinistrad with an arcuate 

 emargination, in which is placed the sinistral style, mesad with a 

 transverse, truncate section, in the dextral angle of which is situated 

 the dextral style, dextrad of this is a deep acute-angulate emargina- 

 tion, in which is visible an acute, lamellate projection of the internal 

 genitalia, dextrad of this emargination and mesad of the cercus 

 the margin develops an erect, lamellate peg-like process, which 

 projects dorsad of the supra-anal plate when the parts are in their 

 normal position, the apex of this process is covered with erect, 



" The presence of these areas may not be a normal condition. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



agglutinated hairs, certain of which appear spiniform, the remainder 

 of the margin and a large portion of the ventral surface of the plate 

 with long hairs, many of which are bristle-like; sinistral style strongly 

 arcuate, the apex directed laterad and with a number of distinct 

 but short teeth; dextral style very short, decurved, rounded at 

 the apex, with there a number of similar short teeth. Cephalic 

 femora with the ventro-cephalic margin bearing three mechan and 

 three distal spines, the latter group increasing in length clistad, 

 the area between the two groups with a continuous, regularly spaced 

 series of short, piliform spinules, no cUsto-dorsal genicular spine 

 present: median and caudal femora with a distinct disto-dorsal 

 genicular spine, ventral margins with large, well-spaced spines: 

 arolia distinct; caudal metatarsus faintly longer than the remaining 

 joints combined. 



Allotype: 9 ; Same data as type. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 

 The following features are those of difference from the description 

 of the type. Interspace between the eyes wider, more than two- 

 thirds as wide as that between the ocellar spots, which area is nearly 

 twice as great as the greatest length of one of the spots; ocellar spots 

 somewhat smaller and less conspicuous than in the male : eyes with 

 their greatest depth but faintly greater than the interocellar width. 

 Abdomen simple: supra-anal plate moderately transverse, arcuate, 

 the chitin with a median V-emargination which is filled with a semi- 

 opaque membrane,^- dorsal surface of the plate with a distal, medio- 

 longitudinal, carinate fold, the free margin of the plate with numerous 

 long, bristle-like hairs: subgenital plate large, distal margin arcuate- 

 truncate between the cerci. Cephalic femora with the median 

 group of large spines numbering four.^* 



General tone of the dorsal surface clear dresden brown to mars 

 brown, the venter largely fuscous. Head blackish fuscous, the 

 clypeus and mandibles ochraceous-buff; ocellar spots warm buff: 

 eyes mars brown to mummy broA^ai: antennae clove brown, the 

 proximal joint faintly ochraceous. Pronotum with the disk blackish 

 fuscous, more or less distinctly divided in two by a medio-longitudinal 

 line of kaiser browai to liver brown; broad lateral margins, a connected 

 and narrower cephalic margin and a detached, usually weaker, 

 caudal margining of warm buff to ochraceous-buff, the dark disk 



12 In two paratypic females this membrane is not apparent, the margin being 

 distinctly and clearly V-emarginate. Apparently this soft area is not a perma- 

 nent structure and may be due to the hardening of exuded body fluids. 



1^ Two paratypic females agree with the allotype in the number of these spines, 

 while the type has but three. 



12 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



appreciably narrower at a point slightly caudad of the middle, 

 Tegmina of the general dorsal color, very pale on the portion of the 

 dextral tegmen concealed when in repose; proximal section of the 

 humeral trunk blackish fuscous; marginal field pale ochraceous 

 translucent, proximad more or less suffused with the blackish fuscous 

 of the humeral trunk. Wings clear hyaline, except for a slight 

 infuscation of the sub-coriaceous region of the costal veins ; venation 

 pencilled in prout's brown. Dorsum of abdomen fuscous, paling 

 to bister along the median line; supra-anal plate of male with a 

 russet tinge, the characteristic Ischnoptera fold of the male ochraceous- 

 buff ; venter of abdomen becoming ochraceous-tawny meso-proxunad. 

 Limbs ochraceous-buff, the coxae fuscous proximad, spines tawny. 



Male (type): Length of body, 12.6 mm.; length of pronotum, 

 3; greatest width of pronotum, 3.6; length of tegmen, 11.9; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 3.7. Female (allotype) : Length of body, 13.5 mm. 

 length of pronotum, 3.2; greatest width of pronotum, 3.7; length 

 of tegmen, 12.3; greatest width of tegmen, 3.3. 



In addition to the type and allotype we have examined two para- 

 typic females, taken at Igarape-assu. One specimen, while of the 

 body bulk of the others, has the tegmina shorter (11.5). 



Xestoblatta" nyctiboroides (Rehn). 



1906. Ischnoptera nyctiboroides Rehn, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1906, 

 p. 266. [Demerara, British Guiana.] 



Igarape-assii. January 23, 1912. One male. 



This specimen, the second known of the species, fully agrees with 

 the original description except that the ulnar vein of the wings 

 has two complete rami on one wing and but one on the other, one 

 incomplete ramus on one wing and none on the other. 



Neoblattella conspersa (Brunner). 



1865. Ph[yllodromia] conspersa Brunner, Nouv. Syst. Blatt., p. 106. [Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. December, 1911; January 13 to 25, February 6, 

 1912. Twenty-two males, twenty-five females. [Two: Cornell 

 University.] 



This interesting series shows that while the blackish punctulations 

 on the tegmina in this species vary greatly in number and intensity 

 they are never entirely absent, and are always placed on thickened 

 Ixodes on the veins. In the individuals with the greater number 

 of punctulations these are individually larger than in those specimens 

 with a considerably smaller number of the same. The pattern of 

 the disk of the pronotum varies in intensity and completeness pro- 



i< Vide Hebard, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 370, (1916). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



portionately with the tegminal punctulations, in occasional specimens 

 being obsolete or completely absent. The pale transverse line 

 ventrad of the eyes varies considerably in degree of definition, but 

 this is not correlated with the variation in intensity of the dorsal 

 surface. The ventral surface of the abdomen is always marked 

 by a medio-longitudinal bar of blackish brown, this varying individ- 

 ually in width and to a less extent in distinctness. 



As one of the females bears an oStheca we know that in the 

 present species the egg-case is carried vertically with the suture 

 dorsad. 



Neoblattella titania (Rehn). 



1903. Blatella titania Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXIX, p. 267. 

 [BartJca, British Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



This individual fully agrees with the type. 



Neoblattella pellucida (Burmeister). 



1838. Bl[atta]pellucida Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth; II, pt. 1, 

 p. 498. [Pard, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. January 13 to 25, 1912. Two males, three females. 



Cariblatta igarapensis n. sp. (PI. I, figs. 15-18.) 



Closely related to C. fossicauda^'" Hebard, differing in the larger 

 size (this species being the largest of the genus), more elongate teg- 

 mina and in the form of the subgenital plate of the male; this of a 

 similar type in which the dextral portion is but weakly produced, the 

 sinistral portion alone markedly projecting. In the female the distal 

 portion of the subgenital plate is less strongly produced than is normal 

 for the genus, but the apex is broadly rounded, not appearing at all 

 bilobate. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5237.] 



Size relatively large (for the genus): form as usual in the genus: 

 surface moderately polished. Head for its whole width visible 

 eephalad of the pronotum; occipital line, when seen from the dorsum, 

 straight; interspace between the eyes broad, the breadth subequal 

 to the greatest depth of the eye, and slightly less than the distance 

 between the ocellar spots; ocellar spots small, oblique, ovate: third 

 joint of palpi elongate, simple, faintly arcuate; fourth joint very 

 faintly shorter than the third joint, regularly though not greatly 

 expanding distad; fifth joint slightly shorter than the fourth joint, 

 moderately inflated, the flexor margin, when seen from the side, regu- 



15 Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 177, pi. XI, figs. 13 to 17, pi. XII, fig 

 17 and 18, (1916). 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



larly arcuate, the extensor margin faintly sinuate, apex roundly 

 acute, when seen from the side: antennae slightly surpassing the 

 body in length; proximal joint large, faintly longer than the second 

 and third joints united. Pronotum rounded sub-hexagonal, trans- 

 verse, the greatest length contained one and two-fifths times in the 

 greatest width, which is placed distinctly caudad of the middle: 

 cephalic margin weakly arcuate, passing by broadly rounded angles 

 into the oblique, diverging and appreciably arcuate cephalic portions 

 of the lateral margins, which strongly round into the caudal sections 

 of the lateral margins; caudal margin arcuato-truncate, rounded 

 obtuse-angulate laterad: broad lateral portions of the pronotum 

 weakly declivent. Tegmina lanceolate, greatest width contained 

 about three and one-half times in the length of the same, when closed 

 they surpass the apex of the abdomen by about the length of the 

 pronotum: costal margin in large part straight, gently arcuate in the 

 area of the marginal field, sharply and briefly iarcuate distad; sutural 

 margin in general straight, with a distal oblique, subarcuate third: 

 apex rather narrowly rounded, slightly costal in position; marginal 

 field reaching about to the proximal third, relatively narrow; scapu- 

 lar field very broad, at proximal third of tegmen equal to one-half the 

 entire width of the same, costal veins elongate, straight, oblique, the 

 distal one of the regular series biramose, eleven in number exclusive 

 of the rami of the distal one; discoidal vein furcate distad, one or 

 both forks again furcate; discoidal sectors longitudinal, four to five in 

 number, exclusive of the median vein itself; anal field elongate pyri- 

 form; anal sulcus with its oblique portion nearly straight, reaching 

 the sutural margin at about the proximal third; axillary veins five to 

 six in number. Wings relatively broad: costal margin straight 

 oblique in the greater portion of the proximal half, straight truncate 

 in the region of the costal veins, sharply rounding to the rounded 

 obtuse-angulate apex, which is situated at the apex of the median 

 vein : intercalated triangle distinct, trigonal : mediastine vein simple, 

 with a decided costal clavation at its apex; discoidal vein bifurcate 

 and its divisions again furcate; costal veins ten in number, the distal 

 four of a common origin and hardly clavate, the remainder heavily 

 clavate; medio-discoidal area narrow, dividing into oblong or sub- 

 quadrate areolets by transverse nervures; median vein simple, largely 

 straight; medio-ulnar area subequal to or faintly narrower than the 

 medio-discoidal area, distad more or less completely intersected by 

 transverse nervures; ulnar vein with two complete rami; axillary 

 vein with three rami originating mesad. Supra-anal plate strongly 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADEPLHIA. 159 



transverse, the margin broadly obtuse-angulate with the immediate 

 angle broadly rounded, the median section of the margin supplied 

 with a group of long bristle-like hairs : cerci missing : subgenital plate 

 very similar to that of fossicauda, having a large, elongate, quadrate, 

 peg-like projection sinistrad, this, however, being proportionately 

 longer and more compressed than in fossicauda; mesad the distal 

 margin is deeply U-emarginate, dextrad of which is a projection less 

 than one-half the length of the sinistral protuberance, dextral margin 

 arcuate: genital hook resembling that of C. insularis (Walker), but 

 with the curve of the hook more distad in position. Spination of the 

 limbs typical of the genus. 



Allotype : d^ ; same data as the type. 



Differing from the description of the male in the following features. 

 Occipital line weakly arcuate; interspace between the eyes slightly 

 exceeding the greatest depth of the eye and subequal to the distance 

 between the margins of the antennal scrobes. Supra-anal plate 

 transverse, with a distinct, relatively broad, rounded emargination 

 mesad: cerci greatly surpassing the subgenital plate, tapering, 

 moniliform, apex sharply acuminate: subgenital plate ample, the 

 distal section broad, when seen from the ventral aspect not emar- 

 ginate or bilobate, weakly channelled when seen from the caudal 

 aspect. 



General color above pale old gold, the tegmina and lateral portions 

 of the pronotum semihyaline, the wings almost colorless hyaline with 

 the veins tinted. Ventral surface largely cinnamon-buff to ochrace- 

 ous-buff . Head of the ventral color, the face with bister bands which 

 in disposition combine features of the patterns of C reticulosa and 

 craticula, the ventral facial band clearly defined in the allotype, but 

 not indicated in the type, a detached bister point present at each 

 lateral angle of the clypeal base in the allotype but not indicated in 

 the type; eyes kaiser brown, thickly mottled with bister; antennae 

 old gold, becoming bister distad. Pronotum with a pattern in 

 bister much like that of fossicauda but with the lines more connected 

 and complete, the pattern more intensive and therefore more complete 

 in the allotype than in the type. Wing veins, excepting the costal 

 clavations and radiate veins, old gold, the exceptions bister, the clava- 

 tions rather weakly so. Dorsum of the abdomen washed with bister 

 laterad, leaving, however, a very narrow, pale margin; venter of 

 abdomen with a proximal median area of bister and narrow submar- 

 ginal lines of the same color. Tibial spines and the larger femoral 

 spines with their bases surrounded by bister rings. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Type: Length of body, 10 mm.; length of pronotmn, 2.2; greatest 

 width of pronotum, 3; length of tegmen, 9.8; greatest width of teg- 

 men, 2.8. Allotype: Length of body, 10 mm.; length of pronotum, 

 2.3; greatest width of pronotmn, 3; length of tegmen, 9.2; greatest 

 width of tegmen, 2.5. 



The type and allotype are all the individuals of the species we have 



seen. 



Nyctiborinae. 

 Paratropes elegans (Burmeister). 



1838. Ph[oraspif;] elegans Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 493. ["Unknown locality," probably Surinam.] 



Igarape-assu. One male, one female. 



This species has been recorded from Surinam (Saussure) and Pard., 

 Ega and Sao Paulo, Brazil (Walker), 



Epilamprinse. 

 Epilampra grisea (DeGeer). 



1773. Blatta grisea DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 540, pi. 44, fig. 9. [Suri- 

 nam.] 



1903. Epilampra lucifuga Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XXIX, p. 271. 

 [Southern British Guiana.] 



Igarape-assii. January 2 to 23, 1912. Ten males, five females. 



The acquisition of this series and the recent re-description of the 

 type of DeGeer's grisea by Shelford^^ enables us to place our lucifuga 

 as a synonym of this variable species. The material before us ex- 

 hibits two color forms, one similar to the type of lucifuga, the other 

 with the castaneous markings slightly larger and more thickly dis- 

 tributed. In all of the specimens the paired trigonal patches on the 

 pronotum are retained. In none of the specimens is the humeral 

 trunk marked by a solid line, this region having either a series of 

 blotches or almost no infuscation at all. 



Apparently this is the only exact Brazilian record of the species. 



Epilampra conspersa Burmeister. 



1838. E[pilampra] conspersa Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 505. [ParA, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. One female. 



This individual agrees fully with the description given by Saussure 

 and Zehntner," although its identity with Burmeister 's species is not 

 so certain. The Burmeisterian description is very brief and is con- 

 sidered by Kirby to represent a form different from that studied by 

 Saussure and Zehntner. Personally we cannot express an opinion, 

 but prefer to use Burmeister's name for this handsome species until 

 the type of conspersa has been re-examined. 



16 Trans. Entom. Soc. London, 1907, p. 462. 

 1' Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 64, (1893). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



Blattinae. 

 Periplaneta americana (Linnaeus). 



1758. [Blatta] americana Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 424. ["America."] 



Igarape-assii. One female. 



Periplaneta australasiae (Fabricius). 



1775. [Blatta] australasice Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 271. ["In nave e 

 mari pacifico et regionibus incognitis revertente."] 



Igarape-assii. January 7, 1912. One female. 



Panchlorinae. 

 PancMora^* exoleta Burmeister. 



1838. P[anchlora] exoleta Burmeister, Handb. der Entom., II, abth. II, 

 pt. 1, p. 507. [Pard, and Bahia, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. February 25, 1912. Two males, one female. 



Panchlora bidentula Hebard. 



1916. Panchlora bidentula Hebard, Entom. News, XXVII, p. 221, fig. 1. 

 [Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. January 17, 1912 (type), no date (paratype). Two 



males. 



OorydiinsB. 



Melestora minutissima n. sp. (PI. I, fig.s. 22, 23.) 



This is the smallest form of the genus, being decidedly under the 

 size of the three previously known species, i. e., adspersipennis and 

 fuscella Stal from Rio de Janeiro SLnd fulvella Rehn from the Misiones, 

 Argentina. Aside from the much inferior size, it differs from adsper- 

 sipennis in the much less transverse pronotum, in the non-sulcate 

 character of the median area of the same and in the dark and less 

 varied coloration. From fuscella the new species also differs in the 

 non-sulcate median section of the pronotum and in the non-pellucid 

 character of the lateral portions of the same. From fulvella, with the 

 type of which the new form has been compared, the present species 

 also differs in the less strongly transverse and more ovate pronotum, 

 in the tegminal venation becoming obsolete distad, in the relatively 

 longer caudal tarsi and in the fuscous coloration. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5248.] 



Size very small: form elongate ovate, depressed: surface moder- 

 ately polished, regularly but sparsely clothed with silky pile. Head 

 visible cephalad of the pronotum, the outline of the occiput and head 

 arcuate; interspace between the eyes very broad, imiform in width, 

 which is subequal to the greatest depth of the eye, surface of the inter- 



^' For comments on the important characters for diagnostic use in this genus, 

 as well as the svnonvmy of many of the nominal species of the same, see Hebard, 

 Entom. News, XXVII," pp. 217 to 221, (1916). 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



space finely rugulose and with regularly placed impressed pits with 

 fine, diverging radial lines: interspace between the antennal scrobes 

 very faintly narrower than that between the eyes, moderately ar- 

 cuate in section, glabrous: palpi with the fourth joint very slender 

 proximad, regularly expanding distad, the apical margin obliquel}^ 

 truncate; distal article longer than the fourth joint, broad, greatest 

 width at proximal third, margins regularly converging to the acute 

 apex: eyes with facets clearly defined and slightly elevated individu- 

 ally: antennae at least as long as the body, the proximal segment 

 short moniliform, subglobose, the joints becoming progressively 

 longitudinal distad, regularly pilose. Pronotum transversely short 

 elliptical, the greatest length contained one and one-fifth times in the 

 greatest width: all margins arcuate, the nearest approach to angula- 

 tion being the weakly suggested latero-caudal angles: oblique de- 

 pressions distinct, extending from the medio-caudal section toward 

 the usual position of the latero-cephalic angles, then turning mesad 

 and extending subparallel to the cephalic margin, vanishing caudad 

 Ijefore reaching the middle line, the enclosed area moderately bullate, 

 with irregularly placed and irregularly indicated slight transverse 

 wrinkles, no medio-longitudinal impression: lateral sections of pro- 

 notum weakly declivent. Tegmina coriaceous, haired as the other 

 portions of the body, lanceolate-elliptical, the greatest width con- 

 tained three times in the greatest length of the tegmen : costal mar- 

 gin lightly and regularly arcuate; sutural margin straight for the 

 greater portion of the pmximal two-thirds, arcuate distad; apex 

 rather broadly rounded; the entire costal margin thickened and finely 

 nodulose cingulate: marginal field occupying about the proximal 

 two-fifths, well developed, moderately wide: six well defined costal 

 veins indicated: discoidal field with six definite longitudinal sectors 

 (including the discoidal vein itself), these sinuate, connected by cross- 

 veins and forming quadrate to oblong interspaces, all obsolete distad, 

 becoming lost in the coriaceous shagreenous condition of that region ; 

 anal sulcus distinct, impressed, arcuate proximad, straight oblique 

 distad, joining the sutural margin near the proximal third; anal field 

 elongate pyriform; axillary veins three in number, poorly defined. 

 Wings faintly surpassing the tegminal apices when all are in repose. 

 Supra-anal plate transverse, the free margin sinuate-arcuate: cerci 

 moderately long, robust, subfusiform, the apex rather short acute, 

 the whole subdepressed : subgenital plate asymmetrical, from the- 

 sinistral side the margin is developed as follows: obliquely arcuate- 

 emarginate ventrad of the cercus, then developed into an acute, peg- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



like process, which is narrowly separated from a median rectangulate 

 projection by a distinct but not deep V-shaped emargination, dextrad 

 of the rectangulate projection the margin is briefly arcuate, then 

 strongly oblique truncate. Median and caudal femora with ventral 

 margins finely spined: caudal tarsi hardly shorter than the caudal 

 tibiae, the metatarsus occupying slightly more than one-half the 

 length of the tarsus: aroha present. 



General color mummy brown, becoming buckthorn bro\^Ti distad 

 on the femora and remainder of the limbs, and blackish-brown on the 

 head and proximal antennal joint. Abdomen becoming auburn meso- 

 proximad. Subgenital plate blackish-brown. Eyes blackish-browTi. 



Length of body, 6.2 mm.; length of pronotum, 1.5; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 1.7; length of tegmen, 5.3; greatest width of tegmen, 

 1.7. 



The type is unique. 



Oxyhaloinae. 

 ChorisoEeura parish! n. sp. (PI. I, figs. 19-21.) 



This is a most peculiar species, which we are placing in Chori- 

 soneura chiefl}^ on account of the peculiar structure of the male sub- 

 genital plate. The femora are very weakly spined ventrad, while 

 the general form is distinctly suggestive of an Anapleda, so much so 

 that we are not at all convinced of the proper generic position of the 

 species, the assignment of which is tentative. The insect does not 

 seem to be closely related to any of the described species of Chori- 

 soneura and we are unable to give a comparative diagnosis for that 

 reason. 



Type: d^ ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5234.] 



Size rather small: form depressed, elongate elliptical: surface 

 moderately polished. Head projecting cephalad of the pronotum 

 when seen from the dorsum : occipital line arcuato-truncate when seen 

 from the dorsum; least interspace between the eyes, which is ventral 

 in position, very broad, subequal to the area between the antennal 

 scrobes; face moderately bullate: palpi with the third joint slender, 

 slightly longer than the fifth joint; fourth joint faintly shorter than 

 the fifth joint, slender proximad and regularly enlarging distad; 

 fifth joint somewhat thickened, elongate elliptical in outline: eyes 

 strongly reniform in basal outline: antennae slightly exceeding the 

 body in length; third joint nearly twice as long as the second joint, 

 proximal joint moderately enlarged, slightly longer than the third 

 joint. Pronotum transverse, its greatest length contained one and 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



one-half times in its greatest \iidth: cephalic and caudal margins 

 very faintly arcuate, subparallel, the caudal of greater extent than 

 the cephalic, lateral margins l)roadly and strongly arcuate, latero- 

 cephalic angles obsolete, latero-caudal angles very faint, greatest 

 width situated slightly caudad of the middle : surface of the disk with 

 a faint, discontinuous, medio-longitudinal impression, also with three 

 pairs of poorly defined impressions, the caudal pair practically de- 

 limiting the disk latero-caudad; lateral portions of the pronotum 

 semihyaline, weakly deflexed. Tegmina elongate lanceolate, the 

 greatest width contained about three and one-half times in the great- 

 est length: costal margin moderately arcuate in proximal third, 

 straight thence to the moderately arcuate distal fourth ; sutural mar- 

 gin of similar form, but the distal arcuation is somewhat more exten- 

 sive; apex rounded acuminate, nearlj^ median in position: marginal 

 field of medium width, sharply subdeplanate, extending to the proxi- 

 mal third of tegmen; scapular field broad, comprising but slightly 

 less than half the entire tegminal width; anal field subpyriform, com- 

 prising slightly less than one-third the sutural length: costal vein 

 twelve in number, obUque, somewhat sinuate and irregular; discoidal 

 vein bifurcate distad, the sutural ramus sending two rami to the distal 

 section of the sutural margin; median vein in general parallel to the 

 discoidal vein, reaching the sutural margin proximad of the discoidal 

 rami, sending two to three strongly oblique rami suturad ; ulnar vein 

 bifurcate; anal sulcus strongly arcuate proximad, straight oblique 

 thence to the apex, which is very briefly arcuate; axillary veins five 

 in number, poorly defined. Wings with the intercalated field rela- 

 tively large, its axial length about equal to one-third that of the re- 

 mainder of the wing, strongly arcuate distad, subrectangulate proxi- 

 mad: costal veins eleven in number, the three proximal ones springing 

 from the mediastine vein, the proximal nine all distinctly elongate 

 clavate; discoidal vein straight, simple except for the costal veins; 

 medio-discoidal area broad, its width at broadest point almost equal 

 to that from discoidal vein to costal margin, divided into more or 

 less distinctly quadrate areas by eleven transverse veins; median 

 vein straight except for curving costad toward the discoidal vein near 

 its apex, simple except for several rudimentary rami distad; medio- 

 ulnar area narrow, distinctly less (at broadest points) than half as 

 wide as the medio-discoidal area; axillary vein biramose. Subgenital 

 plate^^ of the slightly asymmetrical type, with the large, compressed 



1^ The condition of the material is such that we have refrained from making any 

 effort to ascertain the features of the supra-anal plate. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



type of styles, found in a number Of kpecies of the genus; form of the 

 plate reading from sinistral portion; first, an infra-cereal, slightly 

 oblique, subtruncate, projecting portion, this rounding into a rela- 

 tively deep U-shaped emargination to the base of the styles, which 

 are placed in broadly, unequally arcuate emarginations, between 

 which is a slight, acute-angulate projection, dextrad of the styles the 

 margin is developed similarly to the sinistral portion, but the pro- 

 jection is narrower and more acute; styles in length distinctly sur- 

 passing the remainder of the subgenital plate, distinctly compressed, 

 subparallel, tapering, ventral margin thickened: cerci elongate, de- 

 pressed, subfusiform, distad greatly attenuate. Femoral margins 

 with a few weak, short spines; genicular spines stronglj^ developed 

 on median and caudal femora: arolia large. 



General color buckthorn brown. Head dull vinaceous-ruf ous ; 

 eyes cinnamon-brown; antennae with the proximal portion of the 

 dorsal surface lined with mummy brown : palpi clay color. Pronotum 

 dull mars yellow mesad, this flanked by a pair of poorly defined, 

 broad bars of dark auburn, which chverge caudad and fail to reach 

 the caudal margin of the pronotum; lateral portions of the pronotum 

 nearly colorless hyaline. Tegmina with marginal field nearly 

 colorless hyaline; humeral trunk and vicinity dark auburn. Wing 

 weakly washed with buckthorn brown, the inter-marginal costal 

 region washed, and the radiate veins pencilled with mummy brown. 

 Abdomen on both lateral aspects with indefinite marginal bands of 

 mummy brown. 



Length of body, 8 mm.; length of pronotum, 1.6; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 2.4; length of tegmen, 6.6; greatest width of tegmen, 1,8. 



In addition to the type we have before us a paratypic male bearing 

 the same data as the type. This specimen shows no differences 

 excepting a quadriramose condition of the tegminal discoidal vein, 

 which has one ramus furcate on one tegmen, and biramose on the 

 other. 



We take great pleasure in dedicating this interesting and aberrant 



species to the collector, Mr. Parish, to whose energy we are indebted 



for several extremely interesting and important series of tropical 



American Orthoptera. 



MANTID^. 



Mantinse. 

 Acontiotliespis eximia (Pascoe). 



1882. Callimantis eximia Pascoe, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., (5), IX, p. 423. 

 [Nazare, near Para, Brazil.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Igarape-assii. January 19, 1912. Two males, one female. 



Kirby^o, who examined Pascoe's type, considers Saussure and 

 Zehntner's paraensis to be the same as eximia. 



The male has not been previously described. In that sex the 

 general form of the head is similar to that found in the female, but 

 the occipital line is weakly concave and the facial scutellum is 

 slightly shallower, though of exactly the same general pattern. 

 The pronotum is of similar form to that of the female but, naturally, 

 slightly more slender. The tegmina are entirely hyaline except the 

 marginal field and the vicinity of the humeral trunk, which are 

 opaque green. The wings are hyaline with the costal margin rather 

 narrowly washed with pomegranate purple, a longitudinal blotch 

 placed on the caudal two-thirds of the radiate field at about tw^o- 

 fifths the length of the wing from the internal margin, bone brown 

 in color. One of the Igarape-assu males measures as follows: length 

 of body, 19.8 mm.; length of pronotum, 4.4; greatest width of prono- 

 tum, 2.2; length of tegmen, 14; length of cephalic femur, 5.2. 



All the known records of the species are from the state of Para, 

 Brazil. 



Angela quinquemaculata (Olivier). 



1792. Mantis quinquemaculata Olivier, Encycl. Meth., Ins., VII, p. 636. 



[Surinam.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



This specimen has been compared with a male of the species from 

 Bartica, British Guiana (11-27-1913; H. S. Parish) and agrees in 

 all respects except two. The folded carination of the disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segments is well indicated in the Bartica specimen and 

 not apparent in that from Igarape-assii. The Bartica specimen is 

 more intensely colored, having the yellow areas between the purplish 

 bars on the wings brighter, but the general weak infuscation of the 

 wings is more extensive in the Brazilian specimen and the distal 

 ferruginous patch on the anterior field of the same is more decided 

 in this individual. 



Apparently this is the first Brazilian record of the species. 

 Macromantis ovalifolia (StoU). 



1813. [Mantis] ovalifolia StoU, Natuur. Afbeeld. Beschr. Spooken, etc., pp. 

 58, 77, pi. XIX, fig. 72. [No locality.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



This specimen has the marginal field of the tegmina hyaline in 

 the proximal two-fifths and viridi-coriaceous distad. Apparently 



20 Synon. Catal. Orth., I, p. 233, (1904). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 167 



this is the first record of the genus fjom Brazil or from south of the 



Guianas. 



Miopteryginse. 



Musonia-' major Saussure and Zehntner. 



1894. Musonia major Saussure and Zehntner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Ortli., I, 

 p. 165, pi. X, figs. 17 to 19. [South America.] 



Igarape-assu. Two males. 



These specimens have also been compared with a male of 

 this species from Nouveau Chantier, French Guiana, recorded by 

 Chopard.-- The form of the supra-anal plate of the male has never 

 been described. From our material it is seen to be elongate 

 lanceolate, with the apex rounded and but faintly surpassing the 

 distal margin of the subgenital plate. There is present on the plate 

 a distinct precurrent median carina. 



This is the first record of the species from Brazil. 



Vatinae. 



Parastagmatoptera flavoguttata (Serville). 



1839. Mantit; flavoguttata Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orthopt., p. 183. [Cay- 

 enne.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from males from Nouveau Chantier, 

 French Guiana, determined and recorded by Chopard. 



ACRIDID^. 



Acrydiinse. 



Eomorphopus granulatus Hancock. 



1906. E[omorphopus] granulatus Hancock, Genera Insectorum, fasc. 48, 

 Tetriginse, p. 38, pi. IV, figs. 35 and 35a. [Dutch Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. January 25, 1912. One male. 



Allotettix peruvianus (Bolivar). 



1887. P[aratetUx] peruvianus Bolivar, Ann. Soc. Entom. Belg., XXXI, 

 p. 272. [Pumamarca, Peru.] 



Igarape-assu. Four males, one female. 



-^ The type of this genus was first fixed by the present author, in February, 1904 

 (Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXVII, p. 568), as surinama. Kirby later (Synon, Catal. 

 Orth., I, p. 276 — not earlier than November, 1904) indicated major Saussure and 

 Zehntner as the type, an unwarranted and untenable designation, as it was not one 

 of the originally included species. As Giglio-Tos has based his recently proposed 

 generic name Promusonia on surinama (Bull. Soc. Entom. Ital., XL VII, p. 6, 

 (1916)), it is evident that his name is a pure synonym of Musonia as properly re- 

 stricted. As we have already contended (Ibid., p. 567), the generic name Mionyx 

 also becomes a synonym of Musonia, although at the date of our previous writing 

 no single type had been selected for it. Kirby, however, indicated (Ibid., p. 276) 

 as its type, lineativentris St&l, which is apparently congeneric with surinama, in 

 addition being with the latter the original basis of Musonia. Certain species 

 which have been referred to Mionyx are, apparently, not congeneric with suri- 

 nama, and these will require a new generic name. 



22 Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXX, p. 332, (1911). 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Micronotus caudatus (Saussure). 



1861. T[cUix] caudata Saussure/ Revue et Magasin de Zoologie, 2e ser., 

 XIII, p. 399. [Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. Three males, five females. 



These specimens are typical of this relatively widely distributed 

 species. It seems to us very probable that Bruner's Tettix gracilis 

 from Trinidad'^ equals the present species. 



Apotettix bruneri (Hancock). 



1906. Apotettix bruneri Hancock, in Bruner, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XXX, 

 p. 614. [Paraguay.] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



This specimen is inseparable from Paraguayan and Argentinian 

 individuals of the same sex. The range of the species is much 

 extended to the northward by this record. 



Tettigidea hancocki Brun^^r, 



1910. Tettigidea hancocki Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., VII, p. 131. [Cor- 

 umba, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



This specimen fully agrees with the description of hancocki, but 

 in size it is somewhat smaller, showing the following proportions: 

 length of body, 8.8 mm.; length of pronotum, 9.1; length of tegmen, 

 1.7; length of wing distad of pronotum, 2.5; length of caudal femur, 

 5.4. 



The two localities from which this species are known are widely 



separated, but doubtless it will be found in suitable situations in 



the intervening region. 



Proscopinse. 



Proscopia scabra Klug. 



1820. Proscopia scabra Klug, in Nees ab Esenbeck, Horse Physicae Berolin., 

 p. 19, pi. Ill, fig. 2. [Pard, Brazil.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



The male is particularly interesting in having a striking type of 

 coloration, a median supra-clypeal area on the lower face, the ventral 

 section of the gense, the cephalic supracoxal plate, a wash along each 

 side of the meso- and metapleura and the greater portion of the 

 immediate apex of the abdomen, being yellowish. The species 

 Taxiarchus paraensis described by us from Obidos, Amazon River,^* 

 we find to be a synonym of the present species. The unsatisfactory 

 character of Brunner's generic key and lack of comparable material 

 were largely responsible for the reference of this insect to Taxiarchus. 



2' Journ. N. Y. Entom. See, XIV, p. 145, (1906). 

 21 Entom. News, XVII, p. 332, (1906). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Certain of the genera of the present subfamily do not appear at 

 all natural or, if so, are not properly defined. 



The species is known from as far south as Bahia and inland to 

 the upper Amazonian region. 



Acridinae {Truxalinoe of authors). 



Orphulella punctata (DeGeer). 



177.3. Acrydium punclatum DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 503, pi. 42, 

 fig. 12. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assii. Two males, one female. 



Para. (W. M. Mann.) One male, one female. (C. F. Baker.) 

 Three males, seven females. 



This series exhibits the usual phases and variations of this plastic 

 and widespread species. But two, these females from Para, are 

 of the all green phase, while the strongly infuscated phase is 

 represented in the Igarape-assii and Para lots. In a relatively 

 large numl^er of specimens the lateral carinse of the pronotal disk 

 show a more or less decided tendency to become obsolete between 

 the first and second transverse sulci. 



Orphulella boucardi (Bmner). 



1904. Linoceratium boucardi Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 84. 

 [Rio Sarstoon, British Honduras; Panama; San Diego, Department of 

 Magdalena, Colombia.] 



Igarape-assii. February 1, 1912 (one specimen only). Six 

 males, two females. 



For comments on the synonymy of this species the student is 

 referred to a recent paper by the author.^^ 



Omtnexechinse . 



Ommexecha giglio-tosi Bolivar. 



1899. 0[mmexechn\ giglio-tosi Bolivar, Revista Chilena Hist. Nat., Ill, 

 pp. 54, 55. [Caiza, Aguairenda and San Francisco, BoHvian Chaco.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from individuals of the same sex 

 previously recorded by us from northern Argentina, except that 

 the disk of the wing is more glaucous and less azure blue. 



Py rgoraorphinae . 

 Omura congrua Walker. 



1870. Omura congrua Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., Ill, p. 504. 

 [Pard, Brazil; Amazon Region; Archidona, Ecuador.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



"Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 277, (1916). 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



LocustiDse {Acridinoe of authors). 



Colpolopha obsoleta (Serville). 



1831. Tropinotus obsoletus Serville, Ann. Sci. Nat., XXII. p. 274. ["Cape 

 of Good Hope."] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from British Guianan males of 



the species, which has been recorded from Santarem (Rehn) and 



Para (Bruner), Brazil. 



Tropidacris collaris (StoU). 



1813. Gryllus (Locusla) collaris Stoll, Natuurl. Afb. Beschyr. Spooken, etc., 

 Trek-springhaanen, pp. 39, register 13, pi. XXIV, fig. SO. [No locality.] 



Igarape-assii. One dated January 17, 1912. One male, two 



females. 



Stenaoris cylindrodes (Stai). 



1860. Opsomala cylindrodes StS.1, Kong. Svenska Freg. Eugenies Resa, 

 Ins., p. 325. [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



This specimen is inseparable from south Brazilian material. 



Oxyblepta xanthochlora (Marschall). 



1835. Gryllus xanthochlorus Marschall, Ann. Wiener Mus., I, p. 215, pi. 

 XVIII, fig. 7. [Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. One dated January 17, 1912. Two males, two 

 females. 



These specimens are only provisionally referred to this species, 

 as the forms of the genus found in northern South America and 

 their relationship is very poorly understood. 



Mastusia caeruleipennis Bmner. 



1911. Mastusia caeruleipennis Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 86. 

 [Benevides, state of Para, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. Three males, two females. 



This species was described from a female, apparently unique. 



The male sex fully agrees with the important features of the original 



description, except for the genital characters and those features 



in which the males of this group show some difference from the 



female, i. e. smaller size, proportionately narrower interocular 



space of the vertex, more prominent eyes and slightly more distinct 



median carina of the pronotum. In size the male specimens before 



us show the following measurements : 



Length of body 22.3 mm. 19 mm. 19.5 mm. 



Length of pronotum 4.4 " 4 " 4.3 " 



Greatest dorsal (caudal) width of 



pronotum 2.2 " 2.1 '' 2.2 " 



Length of tegmen 11 " 9 " 10- '' 



Length of caudal femur 13.1 " 12.1 '' 13.5 " 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 171 



The male genitalic characters can be briefly described as follows. 

 The disto-dorsal abdominal segment has the distal margin concave 

 mesad, the concavity delimited laterad by a short black projecting 

 tooth; supra-anal plate of the trefoil type found in this genera 

 group, the paired lateral sections strongly rounded, the median 

 distal section short sublinguiform, the dividing emarginations 

 roundly rectangulate, proximal half of plate with a median sulcus, 

 widening distad; cerci developed as broad plates but slightly sur- 

 passing the apex of the supra-anal plate, the dorsal section of the 

 plate strongly impressed and depressed, with the apex slightly 

 recurved on the main portion of the cercus, the lateral section, which 

 is thrown into relief by the impressed and recurved sections, being 

 of the sub-falciform pattern found in the cerci of other species of 

 this group of genera, in which species, however, the cerci are not 

 at all lamellate, but instead show modifications of a simpler cereal 

 type; subgenital plate short, when seen from the lateral aspect 

 blunted, the apex strongly pinched dorsad. 



The male sex, and to a lesser degree one of the females, shows 

 certain color differences from the original description. The dorsal 

 coloration is appreciably marked off from the darker lateral bars 

 by narrow lines of dull yellow on the head and pronotum, which 

 are continued caudad from the pallid lines on the tegmina mentioned 

 by Bruner. There is also a dark bar, which varies in solidity, across 

 the ventral sections of the gense, lateral lobes and, more weakly, 

 the pleura, bordering ventrad the yellow described by Bruner. 

 The face is dull pale olivaceous green in both sexes. The caudal 

 femora are clear oil yellow proximad, passing to oil green distad, 

 with the distal extremity somewhat infuscated. 



The number of spines on the external margin of the caudal tibiae 

 varies from six to seven. 



Tetrataenia surinama (Linnaeus). (PI. I, figs. 24 and 26.) 



1764. [Gryllus] surinamus Linnaeus, Mus. Ludovic. Ulric., p. 146. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assu. Five males. 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



This series shows the male sex to have a very great amount of 

 variation in size, and apparently to a certain degree locally in the 

 depth of general coloration; in the Igarape-assu specimens the 

 dorsal surface of the head and pronotum is fully as dark as the 

 lateral (i. e. ventrad of the narrow pale dorso-lateral lines) areas, 

 w^hile the tegmina are more olivaceous, instead of the same area 

 13 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj^ 



on the pronotum and the tegmina being distinctly greenish, as in 

 the Para individuals. 



The size extremes (in millimeters) of the Igarape-assu males and 

 the single female (Para) seen are as follows: 



d' cf 9 



Length of body 19.5 mm. 29 mm. 35 mm. 



Length of pronotmn 4.2 " 5.8 " 6.6 



Greatest dorsal (caudal) width of 



pronotum 2.6 " 3.8 " 4.8 



Length of tegmen 17.6 " 22.7 " 24.6 



Length of caudal femur 13.6 " 18.6 " 19 



i( 



it 



^s>"- 



The species has been recorded from Surinam, "Brazil," Coca 

 (Bolivar) and Valley of Santiago (Giglio-Tos), Ecuador. The 

 two latter records may not refer to true surinama. 

 Tetrataenia phila^e n. sp. (Pi. I, figs. 25 and 27.) 



Allied to T. surinama (Linnaeus), but differing in the generally 

 smaller size, less strongly bullate occiput, narrower interspace 

 between the eyes, shorter and proportionately broader fastigium, 

 more prominent eyes, in the more slender and more regularly arcuate 

 male cerci, in the less expanded genicular lobes of the median femora 

 and the small dorsal spine of the same region, in the less produced 

 and more robust caudal femora of the male and in the less strongly 

 contrasted coloration. 



Type: cf; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5284.] 



Size small (for the genus): form in general as in T. surinama. 

 Head with the occiput regularly buUate-arcuate ascending, but not 

 as elevated as the dorsal surface of the eyes, weakly carinate mesad, 

 the vertex and fastigium moderately declivent; interspace between 

 the eyes subequal in width to the inter-antennal section of the 

 frontal costa; fastigium nearly twice as broad as long, cephalic 

 margin arcuato-obtuse, faintly excavate near the apex, fastigio- 

 facial angle roundly obtuse when seen from the lateral aspect, face 

 gently retreating, bounding border of the fastigium well indicated; 

 frontal costa not strongly indicated ventrad, failing to reach the 

 clypeal suture, moderately narrowed dorsad at the fastigio-facial 

 angle and again to a smaller degree ventrad of the ocellus, thence 

 subequal in width ventrad, surface biseriate punctate dorsad, faintly 

 sulcate ventrad; lateral facial carinse distinct and gently diverging 



2" From ^lAe^ a friend. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 173 



ventrad: eyes prominent, distinctly elevated dorsad of the vertex, 

 in outline broad ovate, in length twice as long as the infra-ocular 

 portion of the gense: antennae almost twice as long as the combined 

 length of the head and pronotum. Pronotum subsellate, greatest 

 width (caudad) of the disk contained one and one-half times in the 

 greatest length; cephalic margin of disk gently arcuate with a shallow 

 median emargination, caudal margin obtuse-angulate with the 

 immediate angle narrowly emarginate; prozona about one and 

 one-half times as long as the metazona, the latter closely cribroso- 

 punctate, transverse sulci deeply impressed; median carina faintly 

 indicated on the prozona, severed by all the transverse sulci, distinct 

 but low and not sharply defined on the metazona, lateral angles 

 rounded, faintly more evident on the metazona than on the prozona; 

 lateral lobes with their greatest depth contained one and one-quarter 

 times in their greatest dorsal length; cephalic margin straight oblique, 

 ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse-angulate; ventral margin 

 arcuato-emarginate cephalad, obtuse-angulate mesad, straight 

 oblique ascending caudad, ventro-caudal angle rounded; caudal 

 margin moderatel}^ concave. Tegmina reaching to the tips of the 

 caudal femora, apex rounded. Wings reaching to the tegminal 

 tips. Prosternal spine erect, conical, acute; interspace between the 

 mesosternal lobes quadrate, internal margins of the lobes straight, 

 interno-caudal angles rounded; metasternal lobes very narrowly 

 separated caudad. Furcula present as short spiniform points, 

 between which and the cereal bases are placed on each side a single 

 similar point, the abdominal segment bearing the same sublamellate 

 expanded over the cereal base: supra-anal plate elongate trigonal, 

 slightly arcuate-emarginate on each side mesad, apex broadly rounded, 

 margins moderately elevated, the median line of the plate finely 

 sulcate proximad, carinate distad: cerci thick at the base, thence 

 tapering to the subequal distal half, moderately arcuate in form, 

 apex blunt, moderately incurved: subgenital plate considerably 

 produced, distal portion strongly compressed with the apex faintly 

 bulbous, this faintly elevated when seen from the lateral aspect. 

 Cephalic limbs as usual in the genus. Median femora with the 

 dorsal genicular teeth short and blunt, the genicular lobes not strongly 

 developed. Caudal femora slightly more than twice as long as the 

 head and pronotum together, rather robust, not surpassing the tips 

 of the tegmina, genicular lobes acute, pattern of the paginse regular, 

 moderately impressed : caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, 

 distal two-thirds expanded, margins there distinctly lamellate, 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



lamellar brush on internal margin thick, external margin with but 

 a few hairs; external margin with six to seven spines, internal margin 

 with nine spines: caudal tarsi with proximal joint strongly depressed. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. 



Differing from the description of the male in the following features. 

 Frontal costa sulcate for but a short distance ventrad of the ocellus, 

 plane thence ventrad : eyes elevated but slightly dorsad of the vertex, 

 in depth about one and one-half times that of the infra-ocular portion 

 of the gense: antennse hardly twice as long as the pronotum alone, 

 Pronotum not as sellate as in the male, the dorsal line not at all 

 concave when seen from the side, greatest dorsal (caudal) width 

 of disk contained about one and one-third times in the greatest 

 dorsal length of the same : prozona about one and one-third times 

 as long as the metazona: lateral lobes of the pronotum with their 

 greatest dorsal length very faintly longer than their greatest depth. 

 Interspace between mesosternal lobes faintly broader than in the 

 male, that between metasternal lobes cuneate and at narrowest 

 point about two-fifths the width of the mesosternal interspace. 

 Ovipositor jaws elongate, slender, compressed, margins irregularly 

 denticulate. Median femora of normal type, as usual in females 

 of this genus. 



General color of intensive individuals very dark olive on the 

 dorsal and lateral aspects, ventral surface and abdomen olive- 

 ' yellow to yellowish olive, mottled in both cases with bottle green, 

 metazona of the dorsum of the pronotum washed with ivy green. 

 The usual four lines on the head, pronotum and pleura relatively 

 narrow, the dorsal pair quite narrow, in color these lines are olive- 

 ocher to olive-yellow, paling to cream-buff or primrose yellow where 

 the ventral pairs are connected on the face; pleural spots three in 

 number. Eyes mars brown to prout's brown; antennse of the 

 general color, in proximal half weakly subannulate with dull 

 ochraceous, tips briefly cream color. Tegmina with the anal vein 

 lined with the continuation of the dorsal pair of pale lines; anal 

 area sometimes weakly washed with bottle green. Wings with the 

 disk china blue, apex and distal half of periphery clouded with 

 fuscous. Cephalic and median limbs of the ventral color, the 

 mottling of bottle green quite marked, the tibiae subannulate with 

 fuscous; proximal portion of the femora washed with nopal red. 

 Caudal femora with the external, dorsal and internal faces of the 

 general dorsal color, triannulate with aniline yellow, the proximal 

 annulus incomplete, the median one V-shaped on the lateral face, 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



ventral face aniline yellow or washed with garnet browni, the proximal 

 portion of the femora washed more or less completely with nopal 

 red ; caudal tibiae deep slate blue, paler along the margins, an incom- 

 plete proximal yellowish annulus, spines yellowish, black tipped; 

 caudal tarsi dull greenish, faintly washed with reddish (this probably 

 more extensive and much stronger in life), internal margin of the 

 two proximal joints lined with black. 



In the single recessively colored incUvidual before us the dorsal pale 

 lines are greatly subdued and the femoral bands, particularly the 

 caudal ones, are obsolete, while the general color is less distinctly 

 greenish and in places more brownish. The pale antennal tips and 

 the ventral pair of pale bands are, however, as decided as in the in- 

 tensively colored specimens. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



cf 9 



(Type) (AUotype) 



Length of body 18.7 25.4 



Length of pronotum 4 5.2 



Greatest width of dorsum of pronotum 2.5 3.9 



Length of tegmen 15.1 19 



Length of caudal femur 12.2 15.2 



In adchtion to the type and allotj^pe we have before us two para- 

 typic females, which show structural differences only in the faintly 

 more bullate dorsum of the pronotum of one specimen, which is of 

 the recessive type of coloration noted above. An interesting thing 

 concerning one female paratype is that the left antenna was broken 

 off at the sixth joint some time during the life of the insect, and there 

 has been regenerated distad of that joint a terminal joint much longer 

 and appreciably^ more bulbous than the other segments, which ter- 

 minal segment, curiously enough, bears a narrow terminal pale mark- 

 ing. Since writing the above we have had placed in our hands a 

 single female of the species from Albina, Surinam, collected May, 

 1904, by William Schaus, and belonging to the United States National 

 Museum. This individual is more brownish than the Igarape-assu 

 specimens, with the pattern recessive in character. 



CHLOROPSEUSTES27 new genus. 



A member of the Tetratseniae and allied to Tetratcenia, M'astusia 

 and Eumastusia, but completely apterous and in general form strongly 

 resembling species of the Coscineutid genus Dellia, from which, how- 

 ever, Chloropseustes can be immediately separated by the expanded 



^' From ;i:/.w/3of green, ipevar)/^ deceiver. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and marginally lamellate distal sections of the caudal tibiae, as well 

 as by the character of the genitalia of both sexes. The more fully the 

 other features of the new genus are examined, the more superficial the 

 evident resemblance to Dellia is found to be. From all of the allied 

 genera Chloropseustes can be separated by its apterous condition, its 

 supra-genicular spiniform process and its highly polished surface; 

 from Tetratcenia also in the broadly emarginate caudal margin of the 

 pronotal disk, the more ( cf ) or less ( 9 ) sulcate frontal costa, the 

 simpler subgenital plate of the male and the absence of the clavation 

 of the distal extremity of the median femora found in the male of 

 Tetratcenia; from Eumastusia the new genus differs in the form of the 

 head and general type of the pronotum, as well as sculpture of the 

 same, in the non-compressed male subgenital plate and in the linear, 

 more exserted ovipositor jaws of the female; from Mastusia the new 

 genus also differs in the form and sculpture of the head and pronotum, 

 in the emarginate caudal margin of the pronotal disk and in the linear, 

 more exserted, female ovipositor jaws. The coloration of the type 

 species is very distinctive. 



Description of Genus. — Apterous. Glabrous. Surface of face, 

 gense, occiput, pronotum, pleura and proximal abdominal segment 

 with small, raised but low, callose, white areas. Interspace of vertex 

 narrow; fastigium subdeclivent, sulcate; fastigio-frontal region 

 truncate when viewed from lateral aspect; face retreating; frontal 

 costa distinctly (cf ) or weakly ( 9 ) sulcate mesad and ventrad, plane 

 dorsad; eyes prominent in both sexes. Pronotum with three very 

 deeply impressed transverse sulci, no lateral and little trace (in male 

 only) of median carinae ; cephalic and caudal margins of cUsk emargin- 

 ate mesad; mesonotum not equal to one-third the length of the 

 prozona. Supra-anal plate of male subtrigonal; cerci of male falci- 

 form; subgenital plate short, broad. Ovipositor jaws of female 

 elongate, straight, margins weakly denticulate. Prosternal spine 

 sub-compressed, conical, acute. Mesosternal lobes with interspace 

 sHghtly longitudinal ( cf ) or slightly transverse ( 9 ) . Metasternal 

 lobes contiguous (cf) or narrowly separated (9). Cephalic and 

 median femora of male subinflated, cephalic genicular lobe larger 

 than caudal lobe on each femur. Caudal femora with a more (cf ) 

 or less ( 9 ) pronounced supra-genicular spine, genicular lobes weakly 

 acute; caudal tibiae expanded distad, with the margins sublamellate, 

 external margin with seven spines, internal margin with nine spines; 

 caudal tarsi elongate, second joint subequal to one-half the length of 

 the metatarsus, third joint subequal to joints one and two together. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Genotype: C. leucotylus new species. 

 Chloropseustes leucotylus-'^ n. sp. (PI, I, fig^. 28-31.) 



TjT^e: cT ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. January 17, 1912. 

 (H. S. Parish.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5287.] 



Size small. Head slightly enlarging cephalad of its insertion in the 

 pronotum; occiput roundly inflated and ascending; vertex with 

 interspace between the eyes very narrow, less than the width of the 

 third antennal joint, caudad of the constriction the vertex is lanceo- 

 late sulcato-impressed; fastigium weakly declivent when seen from 

 the lateral aspect, distinctly broader than long when seen from the 

 dorsum, the greatest width subequal to twice the width of the proxi- 

 mal antennal joint, fastigium delicately sulcate medio-longitudinally; 

 fastigio-frontal region vertically truncate to between the antennae 

 when seen from the lateral aspect, face then strongly retreating, 

 weakly concave; frontal costa indicated to the elypeal suture, nar- 

 row, weakly narrowed ventrad of junction with fastigium and faintly 

 so immediately ventrad of the median ocellus, surface of costa dorsad 

 plane with a few punctures, ventrad of ventral margins of antennal 

 scrobes deeply but narrowly sulcate; lateral facial carinas well indi- 

 cated, divergent ventrad; eyes quite prominent, large, well elevated 

 dorsad of the vertex, in length about twice that of the infra-ocular 

 portion of the genae; antennae about three times as long as the pro- 

 notum, simple, joints elongate, very faintly enlarging distad. Pro- 

 notum weakly sellate in general form, but dorsal line straight, with 

 greatest dorsal length slightly greater than the greatest dorsal width ; 

 cephalic margin of disk subarcuate with shallow, broad, median 

 emargination; caudal margin of disk very broadly and faintly emar- 

 ginate, with a more pronounced, broad, median V-emargination : 

 mecUan carina very weakly and discontinuously indicated on the 

 prozona; transverse sulci very deeply impressed, the caudal one con- 

 tinuous, the others, three in number, severed by the median carina, a 

 supplementary, short, dorsal sulcus placed between sulci one and two; 

 metazona forming no more than one-fourth of the dorsal length of the 

 pronotum: lateral lobes about one and three-fourths times as long as 

 deep, ventro-caudal angle rounded, caudal margin straight; surface 

 of metazona of lobes faintly punctulate. Mesonotum with caudal 

 margin faintly obtuse-angulate emarginate mesad, the surface as- 

 cending dorso-caudad into a blunt, tubercular structure : metanotum 

 with a structure similar to that of mesonotum, but the caudal 

 margin is more decidedly obtuse-angulate emarginate. Tegmina 



-5 From ^EVKor while, rv/.or knob. 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



and wings completely absent. Abdomen slightly compressed, weakly 

 carinate medio-longitudinally dorsad, extremity slightly recurved: 

 furcula developed as short, broad, rounded well-separated lobes; 

 lateral sections of the segment bearing the furcula sublamellate and 

 projecting over the lateral face of the cereal base, the margin of these 

 lobes arcuate obtuse- angul ate: supra-anal plate moderately produced 

 and constricted trigonal, the apex moderately broad, rounded, lateral 

 margins with the cereal emargination broad, moderately deep and 

 regularly arcuate, distal section of plate slightly deflected ventrad 

 from the plane of the proximal portion of the same, the deflected por- 

 tion with lateral sulci limiting a median rounded "boss": cerci falci- 

 form, short, not surpassing the apex of the supra-anal plate, proximal 

 portion of the cerci very broad, then tapering strongh^ to the rela- 

 tively slender and moderately acute distal portion, the whole cercus 

 placed so as to incline toward the median line of the body: subgenital 

 plate very short, broad, not at all produced, when seen from the lateral 

 aspect rounded, the dorsal margin broadly U-shaped.^^ Prosternal 

 spine moderately compressed conical, acute, arising from a broad 

 base. Interspace between the mesosternal lobes subcuneate, slightly 

 longer than broad: metasternal lobes touching on their caudal half. 

 Cephalic and median femora moderately inflated, appreciably arcu- 

 ate, cephalic genicular lobe of each of these femora larger than the 

 caudal lobe of the same. Caudal femora about twice as long as the 

 head and pronotum together, surpassing the apex of the abdomen by 

 nearly one-half the femoral length, moderately slender, external 

 paginae regularly and distinctly sculptured, genicular lobes moderately 

 acute, median section of dorso-genicular margin with a distinct pro- 

 jecting spine: caudal tibiae very slightly shorter than the femora, 

 distinctly expanded distad, the margins there considerably lamellate, 

 marginal hairs few in number but individually long and regularly dis- 

 posed, external margin with seven spines, internal margin with eight 

 to nine spines: caudal tarsi not quite one-half as long as the caudal 

 tibise, slender, the first and second joints together but slightly longer 

 than the third, the second joint about one-half the length of the first 

 joint, which is considerably depressed. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as the type. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 

 The female differs from the male description in the following fea- 

 tures. Interspace between the eyes subequal to the width of the sec- 

 ond antennal joint, the vertex caudad of the interspace hardly more 



29 The type has this plate compressed, apparently unnaturally so, and we are 

 taking its marginal form from the paratypic male, which, apparently, represents 

 the normal type. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



than finel}' suleate: frontal costa less clearly defined ventrad and 

 with the sulcation weaker and sub-obsolete ventrad: eyes not quite 

 twice as long as the infra-ocular portion of the gense : antennae about 

 two and one-half times as long as the dorsum of the pronotum. Pro- 

 notum slightly shorter, the lateral lobes about one and one-half times 

 as long as deep. Mesonotum and metanotum with marginal form 

 and tuberculiform structure less decided. Supra-anal plate elongate 

 trigonal, strongly arcuate in transverse section, apex rather blunt, 

 surface non-sulcate: cerci short, blunt, styliform: ovipositor valves 

 exserted, elongate, straight, compressed, apices slightly blunted, 

 lateral margins rather finely denticulate, dorsal surface of dorsal 

 valves weakl}^ canaliculate. Interspace between the mesosternal 

 lobes slightly transverse: metasternal lobes narrowly separated. 

 Cephalic and median femora more slender. Caudal femora with 

 dorsal genicular spine less aciculate. 



General color calla green to ivy green, passing into more or less 

 clear oil yellow on the lateral lobes of the pronotum (cf ), the gense 

 and lower face (cf) and rostral region (both sexes). The pale spot- 

 ting ranges from maize yellow, through creamy white to light green- 

 yellow, and is distributed roughly as follows : three paired spots on face, 

 three to four paired markings ventrad of eyes and on gense, a paired 

 series of eight spots following the usual position of lateral pronotal 

 carinse extending from eyes to caudal coxse, another paired series 

 extending from mesonotum to and over dorsum of third to fifth proxi- 

 mal abdominal segments, ventral section of lateral lobes of pronotum 

 with three paired dashes; all these markings placed on strumose 

 tubercles or ridges. Fastigium of male distinctly, of female weakly, 

 pale lemon yellow: antennse of the color of the face, infuscated distad : 

 eyes mars brown to russet. Abdomen of male occasionally yellowish 

 disto-ventrad : furcula, edge of expansion of disto-dorsal abdominal 

 segment and tips of cerci of male black. Caudal femora with distal 

 extremity and adjacent section of tibia? cadmium orange to cadmium 

 yellow, strongest on the genicular arches and weakly tinged with the 

 general greenish on the lobes and dorsum: caudal tibiae with spines 

 black-tipped: caudal tarsi with pulvilli pads scarlet red in some speci- 

 mens, yellowish (possibly faded) in others. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



d" 9 



(Type) (Allotype) 



Length of body 13.6 17.8 



Length of pronotum 2.9 3.1 



Greatest (dorsal) width of pronotal disk 2.3 2.8 



Length of caudal femur 10.3 1.6 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us a paratypic 

 pair (one— the male — dated January 17, 1912), which show no note- 

 worthy differences from the type material, except that the male has 

 the general coloration more olivaceous, but this we feel is due to dry- 

 ing. 

 Bucephalacris falcifer n. sp. (PI. I, figs. 32, 33.) 



Apparently a near relative of B. corallipes Bruner,'^** from Corumba, 

 Brazil, agreeing in the robust form, the closely veined tegmina and 

 the coral red caudal tibiae. The new form differs, however, from 

 corallipes in the female sex (the only one known of corallipes) having 

 the head higher than wide, in the eyes being less than twice as long 

 as the cephalic margin of the cheek, in the fastigium being distinctly 

 broader than long, in the unhanded pronotum and in the longer 

 tegmina. 



Type: d^; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5288.] 



Size small: form robust: surface of face, lower portion of gense, 

 pronotum and pleura closely but not very deeply cribroso-punctate, 

 occiput very shallowly punctate. Occiput arcuato-bullate, well 

 elevated dorsad of pronotal level, at highest point faintly flattened; 

 interocular portion of vertex very narrow, hardly more than one- 

 fourth the width of the proximal antennal joint, weakly sulcate in 

 caudal section; fastigium very faintly declivent, the greatest length 

 subequal to the greatest width, in general form pentagonal, the ceph- 

 alic margin strongly truncate and appreciably cingulate, the surface 

 impressed, weakly nodulose and with a short, rather fine, medio- 

 longitudinal carina: frontal costa dorsad four times as broad as the 

 interocular space and subequal in width ventrad to the median ocel- 

 lus, ventrad of which the margins are strongly constricted, then di- 

 verging an equal amount and obsolete ventrad of this point, the in- 

 terantennal section of the costa is excavato-sulcate, distinctly punc- 

 tate, surrounding the ocellus the surface is impresso-punctate, thence 

 faintly sulcate for a short distance and then passing into the punctate 

 face: lateral facial carinae indicated, but developed only as an angle 

 of the face, moderately diverging ventrad, punctate as the face : eyes 

 quite prominent, more than twice as long as the infra-ocular portion 

 of the gense, in basal outline broad ovate, slightly flattened cephalad : 

 antennae- lacking. Pronotum narrower than the caudal width of 

 head, faintly constricted mesad, the greatest dorsal width of disk 



30 Ann. Carneg. Mus., VIII, p. 93, (1911). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



very slightly less than the greatest dorsal length : cephalic margin of 

 clisk obtusely produced with a very broad, shallow emargination : 

 caudal margin of disk very broadly obtuse-angulate : median carina 

 faintly indicated cephalad, more distinctly so on the metazona, obso- 

 lete mesad: transverse sulci well impressed, metazona slightly more 

 than one-half of the prozonal length : lateral lobes with the greatest 

 dorsal length subequal to the greatest depth; cephalic margin of 

 lobes straight, slightly oblique, ventro-cephalic angle nearly rectangu- 

 late, ventral margin obliquely concave-emarginate cephalad, median 

 angle distinct but obtuse, this margin obliquely subarcuate caudad, 

 ventro-caudal angle obtuse, caudal margin straight, vertical. Teg- 

 mina reaching to the apex of the supra-anal plate, moderately broad, 

 distal four-fifths weakly tapering, apex rounded; venation close, 

 particularly proximad. Wings reaching to the tips of the tegmina, 

 very broad, the greatest width contained one and two-fifths times in 

 the greatest length: distal section of anterior and portion of radiate 

 fields subtruncate. Prosternal spine very robust, short, rather 

 bltmt, faintly transverse compressed: interspace between the meso- 

 sternal lobes with cephalic width faintly greater than the depth, the 

 caudal width very much greater, the interspace regularly narrowing 

 cephalad, median width of interspace very faintly less than that of 

 one of .the lobes, ventro-internal angle of the lobes broadly obtuse : 

 metasternal lobes touching caudad. Supra-anal plate with the 

 greatest proximal width subequal to the greatest length, lateral 

 margin suljparallel proximad, then moderately and regularly narrow- 

 ing, distal extremity rather broad, arcuato-truncate, the surface with 

 a pair of shining black tubercles placed mesad at the distal third, 

 proximad the same plate has indications of a medio-longituclinal im- 

 pression, flanked laterad by a pair of low rounded ridges; margins 

 slightly thickened and elevated: cerci robust, flattened and broad 

 proximad, in general form subfalcate, the tip directed dorsad, strongly 

 tapering from the broad base to the median section, thence weakly 

 tapering to the subacute apex; when viewed from the dorsum the 

 general form of the cercus is straight proximad, then incurved and 

 last with the chstal fourth straight, the arcuate distal margin of the 

 broad proximal portion bears several blunt teeth: pallium^^ greatly 

 produced in an erect, distad compressed, falciform process consider- 

 ably surpassing the subgenital plate, in form this process is gently 

 tapering with a moderately acute apex: subgenital plate short, well 



31 See Scudder, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., XX, p. 8, (1897). 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



rounded when seen from the side, the dorsal free margin V-shaped, 

 the apex faintly rostrate produced, the proximal section of the V-form 

 of the margin slightly embracing the ventral ridge of the palHum. 

 Cephalic and median limbs moderately robust. Caudal femora 

 moderately robust, very faintly shorter than the tegmina, the great- 

 est depth contained three and one-half times in the length of the same, 

 genicular lobes moderately acute, external face regularly patterned: 

 caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, armed on the external 

 margin with six spines, internal margin with eight spines: caudal 

 tarsi very slender and elongate, the proximal and second joints sub- 

 equal in leng-th. 



Allotype: 9 ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



Differing from the description of the type in the following features. 

 Size medium. Interocular portion ofthe vertex slightly wider than 

 the proximal antennal joint, weakly sulcate: fastigium distinctly but 

 not strongly transverse : frontal costa twice as wide as the interocular 

 portion of the vertex, of similar structure to that of the male but 

 the broad portion is plane and non-sulcate, roughly biseriate punctate, 

 ventracl of the ocellus even more strongly constricted and sulcate 

 than in the male, thence obsolete: eyes less prominent than in the 

 male, one and two-thirds times as long as the infra-ocular portion of 

 the gense, in basal outline slightly broader proportionately than 

 in the male : antennae nearly twice as long as the head and pronotum 

 together, very slender, filiform. Pronotum with the median carina 

 obsolete except on the metazona, where it is weak but distinct: 

 lateral lobes with the greatest depth very faintly greater than the 

 greatest dorsal length of the same. Interspace between the meso- 

 sternal lobes with its cephalic width equal to about one and one- 

 third times the greatest length of the same, the form of which latter 

 expands caudad: metasternal. lobes separated by an interspace 

 which at its narrowest point (caudad) is subequal to its greatest 

 length. Ovipositor valves robust, short, the external margins of 

 the dorsal valves crenulate. 



General color of the female saccardo olive, becoming weakly 

 mummy brown on the dorsum of the pronotum and faintly so on 

 the face; of the male on the head, pronotum and pleura dusky olive- 

 green, on tegmina buffy citrine. Eyes cinnamon-brown (d^) to 

 prout's brown (9); antennae fuscous, becoming black distad, with 

 the extreme apex narrowly vinaceous-rufous, proximal joint more 

 (cf ) or less ( 9 ) completely raw sienna. Wings very weakly washed 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



with fuscous, this more apparent along the costal margin and 

 broaclly around the peripherj^, veins fuscous. Abdomen dresden 

 brown (cf ) to brownish olive (9), the ventral surface faintly more 

 greenish; distal section of the margin of the male supra-anal plate, 

 raised points on the same and distal extremity of the cerci black. 

 Cephalic and median limbs of the general coloration: caudal femora 

 hellebore green ( 9 ) or light hellebore green (cf ), the distal extremity 

 english red (cT) to mahogany red (9), the genicular arches weakly 

 greenish, in the female this weakly suffusing the lobes as well: 

 caudal tibiae and tarsi nopal red, spines black tipped. 



Measurements (in millimeters) . 



cf 9 



(Type) (Allotype) 



Length of body 17.6 25.8 



Length of pronotum 3.4 5 



Greatest dorsal width of pronotal disk 2.8 4.4 



Length of tegmen 11 14.8 



Length of caudal femur 10.5 14 



The type and allotype are the only specimens of this species we 

 have seen. 



Vilerna seneo-oculata (DeGeer). 



1773. Acrydium ceneo-oculatum DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 502, pi. 42, 

 fig. 11. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This specimen is somewhat smaller than British Guiana individuals 

 of the same sex, but is clearly the same species. This Guianan type 

 is known to range south as far as Chapada, Matto Grosso and Rio 

 de Janeiro, Brazil. 



Abracris dilecta Walker. 



1870. Ahracris dilecta Walker, Catal. Dermapt. Salt. Brit. Mus., IV, p. 642. 

 [Santarem, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17, 1912 (one). Two females. 



These specimens are inseparable from a cotypic female of the 

 synonymous meridionalis^^ from Demerara, kindly loaned by Prof. 

 Bruner. 



Abracris caeruleipennis (Bruner). 



1900. Jodacris ("') ccerideipennis Bruner, Second Rep. Merchants Loc. In- 

 vest. Comm. Buenos Aires, p. 68. [Asuncion, Paraguay; Territory of 

 Formosa, Argentina.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



31 See Rehn, Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLII, p. 294, (1916). 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Igarape-assu. January 17 and February 1, 1912. Three males, 

 six females. 



These specimens have been compared with a typical pair, a female 

 from Asuncion, Paraguay and a male from San Bernardino, Para- 

 guay, loaned by Prof. Bruner, from which they show no important 

 differences, although they are rather different in coloration. The 

 Para female has the base color pale ochraceous, with no distinct 

 markings on the body, and the external face of the caudal femora 

 unmarked. The male from the same locality has a decidedly varied 

 pattern of the usual contrasted type of the genus, and a distinct 

 oblique dark bar on the external face of the caudal femora, which 

 marking extends to the base as a fine line. The Igarape-assu males 

 are duller and darker than the Para male, but are much more varie- 

 gated than the females. The external femoral bars are present 

 in all of these, continued to the base by a fine line in one. The 

 Igarape-assii females are very dark and dull, very little contrasted 

 and with the pale paired thoracic lines completely or nearly com- 

 pletely effaced. The color wash of the proximal portion of the wings 

 in all the specimens, as in the tjT^ical material, is more bottle green 

 than "blue" as originally described. The same is true of material 

 from other localities in Paraguay and southern Brazil. The ventro- 

 external face of the caudal femora is variable in the extent to which 

 it is suffused with fuscous or blackish. It is always touched with 

 darker in the punctations of the distal two-thirds of the area, which 

 tendency becomes more pronounced and extensive until in the 

 extreme condition that section is almost uniformly colored, but it 

 is never as sharply defined laterad, as solid, or as solid to the base 

 of the femur as in nebulosa, chapadensis, dilecta and obliqua. This 

 feature is the one referred to by us as showing variability in the 

 coloration of this margin.^- 



Osmilia flavo-lineata (DeGeer). 



1773. Acrydium, flavo-linealum DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 497, pi. 42, 

 fig. 4. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17, 1912 (one). Thirteen males, twelve 

 females, one juv. male, one juv. female. 



These specimens have the disk of the vnng more bluish green than 

 in typical individuals of flavo-lineata, in which the same area is 

 yellowish, although with a green tinge, the present specimens being 



32Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1907, p. 186, (1907). Tlie material there re- 

 corded as signatipes, as we have shown elsewhere (Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, 

 XLII, p. 294, (1916)) belongs to cceruleipennis and chapadensis. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



terre-verte as opposed to olive-yellow (Ridgway). The bluish 

 tone, however, is more nearly that of typical Uavo-lineata than the 

 dark tyrian blue (Ridgway) of violacea (Thunberg). We refer the 

 Igarape-assu series to flavo-lineata, but do not consider it tj^pical, 

 as we do material from lower Amazonia and the Guianas. It is 

 possible that flavo-lineata and violacea may be geographic races of 

 the same species and the present series may show a step in the 

 intergradation, but until more material from a number of additional 

 localities is in hand this cannot be more than suggested. The 

 present series shows the usual amount of structural and general 

 brownish color variation in tone and tegminal maculation found 

 in forms of this genus. We feel that this genus should be placed 

 near Ahracris, to which it is undoubtedly close in relationship. 



Sitalces ovatipennis Bruner. 



1908. [Sitalces] ovatipennis Bruner, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., II, p. 291. 

 [British Guiana.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



Igarape-assu. Three males, three females. 



This material has been compared with paratypic specimens from 

 Bartica, British Guiana. While they are always minute the tegmina 

 vary greatly in their exact shape and relative size. There is quite 

 a little variation in the extent to which the blackish of the post- 

 ocular regions and lateral lobes suffuses the dorsum of the thoracic 

 segments and the proximal abdominal segments. This is continuous 

 across the dorsum in some individuals, except for the pale longitudinal 

 lines, and in others is there completely replaced by olivaceous. This 

 is always correlated with general pattern depth and the two represent 

 intensive and recessive extremes. 



The species is here first recorded from Brazil. 

 Sitalces jugatus n. sp. (PI. I, figs. 34, 35.) 



A striking apterous species belonging to the section of the genus 

 containing S. apterus (Scudder),^^ debilis Rehn and probably others. 

 From apterus it differs in the slightly narrower dorsal section of the 

 frontal costa in the female, in the larger auditory tympanum, more 

 slender shaft of the cercus in the male, in the relatively shorter 

 and more robust caudal femora of the male, the more slender caudal 

 tarsi of the same sex and in some chfference in the color pattern of 



^^ We have examined one male and one female of the original one male and two 

 females of this species, which was described as an Ommatolampis (Proc. Boston 

 Soc. Nat. Hist., XVII, p. 273, (1875)), and find it is a Sitalces. Its relationship to 

 jugatus can be determined from the above diagnosis. 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



the male. The latter feature consists of the pale callose area in 

 jugatus being present only on the pleura, while in apterus the ventral 

 portion of the lateral lobes is of similar character. 



From debilis the new species can be readily separated by its more 

 finely rugoso-punctate surface, much more declivent fastigium, 

 more prominent eyes, less apparent median carina of the pronotum, 

 more elongate auditory tympanum, less strongly carinate dorsal 

 line of the abdomen, stouter female cerci, the more acute extremity 

 of the prosternal process, the less decidedly serrate character of 

 the ventral margin of the caudal femora and the reddish brown 

 coloration. As the male of debilis is unknown we cannot compare 

 that sex. Bruner's nudus from Santarem, may be closely related, 

 but such information as we are able to secure from his very incom- 

 plete and not at all convincing remarks on that species seems to 

 point to their being different. 



Type: cf; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci Phila., Type no. 5291.] 



Size large (for the genus); form robust; surface of head largely, of 

 dorsal thoracic and single proximal abdominal segments strongly, 

 ruguloso-punctate, other proximal abdominal segments faintly sculp- 

 tured dorsad. Head with the occiput not elevated dorsad of the 

 pronotum, distinctly declivent to and including the vertex and fasti- 

 gium; interocular width of the vertex very narrow, equal to less than 

 one-half of the interantennal width of the costa, finely sulcate; fasti- 

 gium rather short, broader than long, cephaKc bounding margin of 

 the impresso-punctate surface rectangulate, with a fine median con- 

 tinuation of the sulcus of the vertex: frontal costa faintly produced 

 between the antennal bases, fastigio-facial angle obtuse, facial line 

 considerably retreating, dorso-ocellar section of the costa subequal in 

 width, broad, wider than the proximal antennal joint, non-sulcate, 

 thickly punctate, surface impressed about ocellus, the margins of the 

 costa compressed immediately ventrad of the same, briefly sulcate, 

 thence costa is obsolete: eyes quite prominent, ovate in basal outline, 

 the length twice that of the infra-ocular portion of the gense : antennse 

 filiform, elongate, in length twice as long as the head and pronotum 

 together. Pronotum sub-cylindrical, moderately expanding caudad, 

 the greatest caudal width of the disk subequal to the dorsal length of 

 the same, in transverse section faintly tectate: dorsal margin of- 

 pronotal disk arcuate produced, faintly and broadly emarginate 

 mesad; caudal margin subtruncate with a very broad and shallow 

 median emargination; median carina faintly and rather irregularly 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



indicated, no trace of lateral carinse on shoulders; transverse sulci 

 distinct, but rather finely and narrowly impressed, metazona hardly 

 more than a fourth the length of the remainder of the pronotum: 

 lateral lobes with their greatest depth subequal to two-thirds of the 

 greatest dorsal length of the same; cephalic margin oblique, ventro- 

 cephalic angle rounded obtuse, ventral margin distinctly arcuato- 

 emarginate oblique cephalad, median angle rounded obtuse, caudal 

 section of the ventral margin oblique arcuato-truncate, ventro-caudal 

 angle broadly rounded obtuse. Tegmina and wings absent. Proxi- 

 mal abdominal segment with distinct lateral subcircular auditory 

 tympani. Prosternal spine moderately elongate, erect, conical acute: 

 interspace between the mesosternal lobes quadrate, smaller than one 

 of the lobes; metasternal lobes narrowly separated caudad: surface 

 of mesosternum and metasternum more or less shagreenous, the ceph- 

 alic half of the mesosternum strongly and closely so. Disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment with the furcula represented by a pair of the 

 merest nodes, between which the segment is moderately emarginate: 

 supra-anal plate elongate trigonal, apex narrowly rounded, lateral 

 margins with a weak shoulder at two-fifths the length from the base, 

 surface with a broad medio-longitudinal sulcus on proximal half, a 

 pair of inter-marginal, straight, converging impressions, which on 

 account of the shoulder on the lateral margin are more removed from 

 the latter proximad than distad, and the distal area enclosed by the 

 impressions faintly elevated and its surface weakly impressed: cerci 

 short, rather robust, when seen from the dorsum compressed, having 

 the proximal half straight and the distal section directed obliquely 

 meso-caudad, when seen from the lateral aspect having the proximal 

 half deep and weakly narrowing distad, a short, blunt tooth present 

 ventrad on the external face at the point of flexure of the cercus, the 

 distal half narrowing to the blunt but acuminate apex, ventral margin 

 of the distal half with a distinct, blunted but acuminate tooth, this 

 much like the true apex in character : subgenital tooth simple, hardly 

 produced, free margin distinctly emarginato-truncate mesad, the 

 lateral angles being low nodes. Cephalic and median femora robust, 

 inflated, the median ones particularly so. Caudal femora about 

 twice as long as the head and pronotum together, moderately robust, 

 the greatest width contained three and one-half times in the greatest 

 femoral length; dorsal carina with a series of distinct, spaced serra- 

 tions and an intercalated series of serrulations, ventral carina simi- 

 larly but more decidedly armed, particularly distad; pagina evenly 

 and deeply engraved; genicular lobes with the distal portion of the 

 14 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



ventral margin distinctly concave, apex bluntly acute-angulate: 

 caudal tibiae slightly shorter than the femora, moderately sinuate, 

 faintly expanded distad; external margin with seven spines, internal 

 margin with nine spines: caudal tarsi slender, elongate; metatarsus 

 and second ^oint subequal in length to the third joint. 



General color of the dorsum of the thoracic and proximal abdominal 

 segments pale morocco red. General color of the head and abdomen 

 oil yellow, on the occiput and postocular region of the head dull 

 blackish green: venter aniline yellow; cephalic and median femora 

 light cadmium, passing to pyrite yellow on the tibise; caudal femora 

 sulphine yellow proximad, passing regularly to olive-green distad; 

 caudal tibise and all tarsi olive-green; mesopleura with a decided 

 subcircular spot of buff yellow at the base of the median femora. 

 The clypeal suture and the ventral margin of the gense are lined with 

 black and the antennal fossae washed with the same; antennae of 

 the color of the face proximad, passing to bay mesad and distad; 

 eyes burnt sienna. Abdomen with the proximal segments margined 

 with black, the median segments with paired circular to ovate black 

 spots disposed along the median line; disto-dorsal abdominal seg- 

 ment lined with black next to the supra-anal plate, the extreme tip 

 of the latter similarly blackened; cerci with the points black tipped. 

 Caudal femora with the genicular arches black and a cloud of similar 

 character crossing the base of the genicular lobes; caudal tibiae with 

 the spines black tipped. 

 Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila.] 

 The characters here discussed are supplementary to those given for 

 the male sex. Form very robust : sculpturing as in the male but more 

 decided on the abdominal segments. Interocular width of the ver- 

 tex slightly more than one-half the interantennal width of the frontal 

 costa, weakly sulcate to bisulcate caudad: fastigium nearly twice as 

 broad as long, cephalic bounding margin of the impresso-punctate 

 surface, obtuse-angulate : frontal costa thickly impresso-punctate 

 dorsad, faintly narrowed at junction with fastigium: eyes slightly 

 less prominent than in the male, their length nearly twice that of the 

 infra-ocular portion of the genae: antennae about one and one-half 

 times as long as the head and pronotum together. Pronotum with 

 the greatest caudal width of the disk slightly greater than the great- 

 est length of the same, in transverse section arched: cephalic margin 

 of pronotal disk hardly emarginate, caudal margin less distinctly 

 emarginate than in the male; transverse carina well indicated but 

 more delicate than in the male: lateral lobes slightly deeper in pro- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



portion to the length than in the male. Prosternal spine more acicu- 

 kte than in the male: interspace between the mesosternal lobes 

 slightly transverse, subequal in width to one of the lobes; metasternal 

 lobes separated caudad by a width equal to one-half that between the 

 mesosternal lobes; surface of the sternum punctate instead of sha- 

 greenous. Abdomen distinctly carinate mesad to the penultimate 

 segment: supra-anal plate subtectate in section, elongate trigonal in 

 general form, distal section moderately produced caudad with the 

 apex broadly rounded, proximal half with a distinct medio- 

 longitudinal impression, laterad with distinct carinae, which form 

 the proximo-lateral point of the plate thence strongly converge 

 to the mechan (longitudinal) section of the plate, represented distad 

 by parallel rounded shoulders, ventro-laterad of which the plate is 

 subcompressed : cerci short, broad at base, tapering, the apex blunted : 

 ovipositor jaws moderately compressed, dorso-lateral margins of 

 the dorsal valves faintly and irregularly crenulate. Cephalic and 

 median limbs normal, not inflated as in the male, rather short. 

 Caudal femora as in the male but differing in the ventral carina 

 having smaller but more numerous teeth. 



General color of head, thoracic and abdominal segments and 

 cephalic Hmbs bay, shading to auburn in places, the venter passing 

 to mununy bro"\vn. Fastigium sanford's brown; eyes bronzy argus 

 brown; antennae of the general color, paler proximad; clypeal suture 

 black mesad and laterad, the paired black spots found on the fourth 

 fifth and sixth segments in the male represented by smaller and 

 weaker dots. Median limbs paler than the cephalic ones, more 

 yellow ocher. Caudal femora bay with the dorsal face sanford's 

 brown, the genicular arches black, the lobes blackish with a decided 

 green tinge; caudal tibiae and tarsi cedar green, the distal portion 

 black, the spines black tipped. 



Measurements (j.n millimeters). 



cf 9 



(Type) (Allotype) 



Length of body 17 21.4 



Length of pronotum 4 4.3 



Greatest dorsal (caudal) width of pronotal 



disk 3.5 4.7 



Length of caudal femur 11.4 12.5 



'&"■ 



In addition to the type and allotype we have examined four male 

 and two female paratjT)es. Of these one male bears an exact date, 

 January 21, 1912. The series is quite uniform in coloration, shows 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



no noteworthy variation in structure and exhibits but a negligible 

 amount in size. A single female from Peixe Boi, east of Para, 

 State of Para, Brazil, (November to December, 1907; H. B. Merrill), 

 in the collection of the Academy, is inseparable from the typical 



Igarape-assu series. 



TETTIGONIID^. 

 Phaneropterinae. 

 Ceraia capra n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 36, 37.) 



While we have only the female sex of this species its description 

 is justified by the peculiar and unique form of the subgenital plate, 

 and also by the ambisexual characters separating it from the allied 

 species known only from the male. It is apparently nearest to 

 C. punctulata and dentata Brunner, but from the former it differs 

 in the annulate antennae, in the lateral lobes of the pronotum being 

 roundly inserted cephalad, in the greater number of spines on the 

 ventral margin of the caudal femora, in the metasternal lobes being 

 rounded instead of trigonal, in the ventral margin of the ovipositor 

 being crenulate but a short distance distad, in the deeply fissate 

 and bicorniform subgenital plate and in the somewhat greater 

 size. From deniaia the new form can be readily cUstinguished by 

 the angulate instead of rotundate mesosternal lobes. 



Type: 9 ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5310.] 



Size moderately large; form well compressed; surface somewhat 

 polished. Head moderately arcuate, weakly elevated dorsad of the 

 general level of the pronotal disk; fastigium subhorizontal, narrow, 

 compressed, particularly proximad, sulcate, the apex faintly bulbous, 

 narrowly in contact with the compressed and slender facial fastigium; 

 eyes but moderately prominent when seen from the dorsum, basal 

 outline subcircular, the depth subequal to that of the infra-ocular 

 portion of the gense; antennae broken. Pronotum with the disk 

 deplanate dorsad, greatest caudal width of cUsk contained one and 

 one-third times in the greatest length of the same; cephalic margin 

 of disk emarginato-truncate, caudal margin strongly arcuate, form- 

 ing more than the quadrant of a circle; lateral angles of disk rounded, 

 broadly so cephalad, more narrowly so caudad; surface of disk hardly 

 punctulate cephalad, median figure broadly U-shaped, deeply 

 impressed; lateral lobes with their greatest depth distinctly greater 

 than the greatest length, cephalic margin appreciably sinuate, 

 ventro-cephalic angle very broadly arcuato-rotundate, ventral 

 margin broadly rounded subrectangulate, ventro-caudal section 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



and ventral margin to shortly ventrad of the humeral sinus oblique 

 arcuato-truneate, the infra-humeral section of the margin distinct 

 obtuse-angulate, the humeral sinus rectangulate with the immediate 

 angle rounded. Tegmina surpassing the apices of the caudal femora 

 by about the length of the pronotal disk, in form somewhat elongate, 

 lanceolate, the greatest width contained three and one-third times 

 in the tegminal length; costal margin gently arcuate in distal half, 

 nearly straight in proximal half, sutural margin distad of the anal 

 field straight except for the oblique arcuato-truncate distal fifth, 

 apex rotundato-rectangulate, situated nearer the costal than the 

 main portion of the sutural margin; mediastine vein short, irregular, 

 ramose; humeral and discoidal veins contiguous in proximal two- 

 fifths ; median vein diverging slightly proximad of proximal two-fifths 

 of length, bifurcate, the rami reaching the sutural margin; ulnar 

 vein straight except for brief distal arcuation; transverse nervures 

 numerous and regular in discoidal field. Wings surpassing the 

 tegmina in length by a distance nearly equal to the dorsal length 

 of the pronotum, apex moderatelj^ acute. Prosternum unspined; 

 mesosternum with the lobes rotundato-acute-angulate; metasternum 

 with the lobes rounded laterad and caudad, hardly any caudo- 

 median production indicated. Abdomen with the disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment faintly tectate in section, weakly produced 

 mesad, with a distinct but not wide rectangulate emargination, 

 which is bordered laterad by low, rounded, thickened areas of the 

 margin reflexed toward the ventral surface; supra-anal plate reflexed, 

 trigonal; cerci simple, crassate, tapering to delicate apices, gently 

 arcuate; ovipositor slightly more than half again as long as the 

 dorsum of the pronotum, regularly narrowing in depth distad, the 

 proximal half moderately arcuate, distal half straight, the immediate 

 apex obliquely subtruncate, the apex, distal portion of dorsal margin 

 and apex of ventral valves serrulato-denticulate ; subgenital plate 

 elongate, compressed, fissate for about one-half its length, the 

 resultant lateral lobes diverging and embracing the base of the 

 ovipositor, each regularly tapering in width to the subaciculate 

 apex. Cephalic and median femora unarmed beneath; cephalic 

 tibiae with four spines on the dorso-caudal margin; median tibiae 

 with five to six spines on the same margin. Caudal femora slightlj' 

 more than two-thirds as long as the tegmina, robust in proximal 

 half; genicular lobes short bispinose; ventro-external margin of 

 caudal femora with eight short, flattened, sublamellate spines, 

 ventro-internal margin with ten similar spines. Tarsi without 

 arolia. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May., 



General color of the body and femora yellow ocher (doubtless 

 changed from green by drying), the caudal section of the pronotum, 

 tegmina (except for yellowish wash proximad) and tibiae warbler 

 green (Ridgway), becoming olive-green distad on the tegmina. 

 Eyes chestnut brown; antennae multiannulate with fuscous (only 

 proximal portion of antennae remaining). Tegmina with a longi- 

 tudinally disposed series of small fuscous spots between the discoidal 

 and median and ulnar veins, these placed one in each quadrate space 

 and the series weaker proximad, distad not reaching the apex, a 

 few weak scattered similar spots in the ulnar-anal area. Ovipositor 

 with the margins edged with mummy brown; infra-cereal plates 

 fuscous proximad. Cephalic tibiae with foramina fuscous; til^ial 

 spines ochraceous, narrowly tipped with black; caudal femora with 

 the vicinity of the bases of the ventral spines auburn. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 28.6 min.; length of 

 pronotum, 7.2; greatest (caudal) width of pronotal disk, 5.8; length 

 of tegmen, 45.5; greatest width of tegmen, 10.4; length of caudal 

 femur, 32.8; length of ovipositor, 11.3. 



The type of this species is unique. 



Parableta integricauda Brunner. 



1878. P[arableta] integricauda Brunner, Monogr. der Phaneropt., p. 254, 

 pi. V, fig. 78. [Ecuador; Surinam.] 



Igarape-assii. One male. 



So far as we are able to determine from the description of this 

 species the Igarape-assii specimen belongs here. The eyes, however, 

 are not black but auburn, while the tegmina show but two groups 

 of purplish bordered spots along the ulnar vein. Each of these 

 groups is composed of two distinct spots in contact with each other 

 except for the separation of the vein, the sutural one in each case 

 larger than the other. 



The only previous exact records are from Coca (Bolivar) and Valley 

 of Santiago (Giglio-Tos), Ecuador. 

 Scaphura sphex n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 38-40.) 



Allied to S. nitida, possessing the same polished surface of the body, 

 tegmina and exposed portions of the wings, the distinctive trans- 

 lucence or even transparency of the tegmina, and form of the same, 

 as well as the characteristic structure of the pronotum. The teg- 

 minal corrugations are similar in the two species. From nitida, sphex 

 differs in the relatively broader tegmina, which are also yellowish 

 hyaline except in the suffused distal fourth, in the wings being hyaline 

 in the same proportion (when at rest) as the tegmina, in the less 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



thickly plumose proximal section of the antennae, in the more promi- 

 nent eyes, in the more slender limbs and in features of the coloration 

 which need not be emphasized on account of color variability in the 

 genus. 



Walker's Aganacris micans^^ may be related, but the description 

 does not mention the peculiar hyaline character of the tegmina and 

 Avings, the former of which is said to be black with a cupreous tinge, 

 the latter blackish. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5303.] 



Size medium: form compressed: surface highly polished, the head, 

 ventral portion of the lateral lobes of the pronotum, venter, apex of 

 abdomen and limbs with a greater or lesser amount of whitish pile. 

 Head with the occiput rather strongly inflated, moderately declivent 

 to the fastigium: fastigium but slightly produced, subcompressed, 

 strongly declivent, acuminate when seen from the dorsum, the apex 

 narrowly but strongly rounded, strongly sulcate, ventrad rather 

 broadly in contact with the slightly acute fastigium of the face: 

 median ocellus large; lateral ocelli large, ovate, separated by the 

 fastigium alone: palpi elongate, slender, fifth joint slightly more than 

 half again as long as the third joint: eyes large, prominent, ovate in 

 basal outline, their depth about twice that of the infra-ocular portion 

 of the genae: antennae incomplete, proximad moderately plumose. 

 Pronotum short sellate, with the peculiar structural details found in 

 S. nitida, when seen from the side the dorsum is strongly concave in 

 cephalic half and deplanate caudad: greatest (caudal) width of the 

 disk equal to about four-fifths the greatest length of the same; ceph- 

 alic margin of the disk subtruncate, caudal margin strongly arcuate: 

 transverse impression broad, rounded, its center at about cephalic 

 fourth: lateral portions of disk in cephalic half strongly rounded into 

 the lobes, caudad are present distinct angles, which are chrected meso- 

 cephalad, these passing into the rounded portion; metazona of disk 

 slightly impressed: lateral lobes of the pronotum with the greatest 

 depth one and one-half times in the greatest length of the same; the 

 transverse impression of the dorsum strongly continued on the lateral 

 lobes, caudad of which the surface is somewhat bullate; cephalic 

 margin of the lobes sigmoid, concave dorsad, convex ventrad, ventro- 

 cephalic angle rounded obtuse, ventral margin arcuate oblique, ven- 

 tro-caudal margin very broadly rounded, caudal margin slightly 



54 Catal. Dermap. Salt. Brit. Mus., V, p. 41, (1871). 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



oblique, sinuato-truncate, humeral sinus rectangulate. Tegmina 

 surpassing the apices of the caudal femora by somewhat more than 

 the length of the pronotal disk, of the peculiar crinkled character 

 found in S. nitida, this being regular proximad in the discoidal field, 

 irregular distad and in the costal field: greatest width of the tegmina 

 at the distal fourth, contained nearly four and three-quarters times 

 in the greatest length; costal margin straight arcuate, briefly arcuate 

 proximad and in the distal fourth; apex well rounded, sutural por- 

 tion of apex oblique subtruncate; sutural margin concavo-truncate : 

 mediastine vein weak but distinct: humeral and discoidal veins not 

 in contact; median vein diverging from the discoidal vein at the 

 proximal third, bifurcate faintly before its middle; ulnar vein bi- or 

 triramose: stridulating field with the free margin but faintly produced 

 at the apex of the stridulating vein, distad of this gently arcuate; 

 stridulating vein nearly transverse, greatly thickened, subfusiform; 

 speculum greatly elongate, narrow, proximad of the stridulating vein 

 the field is subcoriaceous. Wings projecting distad of the tegmina a 

 distance less than the length of the disk of the pronotum, the apex 

 narrowly rounded. Prosternum elevated in a V-shaped structure, 

 unarmed: mesosternal lobes truncate laterad, rounded rectangulate 

 disto-laterad : metasternal lobes narrow, obliquely arcuate. Disto- 

 dorsal abdominal segment arcuate-emarginate laterad, the distal 

 margin subtruncate mesad, a weak medio-longitudinal impression 

 present: subgenital plate deflexed, trigonal: cerci simple, tapering, 

 arcuate dorsad, the apices very briefly spiniform: subgenital plate 

 narrow, produced, attenuate mesad, projecting almost to the tips of 

 the cerci, the distal margin strongly arcuate-emarginate; styles short, 

 articulate. Limbs slender: cephalic femora subcompressed, moder- 

 ately deep; cephalic tibiae with the tympana large, reniform: caudal 

 femora nearly two-thirds as long as the tegmina, moderately inflated 

 proximad, very slender distad, ventro-external margin with six to 

 nine, ventro-internal margin with four spines. 



General color shining blue black, the pubescence of the body and 

 limbs white, the plumosity of the antennae black. Head with a pair 

 of infra-ocular lines of hazel, the clypeus and labrum marked with 

 the same to ochraceous-buff: palpi incompletely lined dorsad with 

 ochraceous-buff: eyes cinnamon-brown. Pronotum with the ventral 

 portion of the lateral lobes narrowly margined with naples yellow. 

 Tegmina faintly buffy hyaline in the proximal three-fourths, distal 

 fourth strongly washed with blackish fuscous; humeral, discoidal, 

 ulnar and anal veins and rami prominently lined with walnut brown 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



to blackish fuscous; stridulating field similar in tone to the discoidal 

 three-fourths of the tegmina; stridulating vein broadly black, opaque 

 area proximad of same bright mustard yellow; bordering veins of 

 speculum lined with fuscous, first axillary distad with dragon's-blood 

 red, second with black. Wings with base tint as in tegmina, the veins 

 lined with russet. Metapleura marked dorso-laterad with two points 

 of mustard yellow. Abdomen with two proximal segments with 

 paired dots of mustard yellow on dorsal surface. Coxal region marked 

 more or less strongly with the same color. Venter of abdomen ob- 

 scurely buffy. Median femora faintly and brokenly lined with mus- 

 tard yellow on cephalic surface; caudal femora at proximal fourth 

 with sublunate spot on mustard yellow on dorsal face. 



Length of body, 16.2 mm.; length of pronotum, 4; greatest width 

 of pronotal disk, 3.2; length of tegmen, 24; greatest Avidth of teg- 

 men, 5.2; length of caudal femur, 15.5. 



The type of this striking and remarkable mimetic species is unique. 



The resemblance of it to certain sphecoid wasps is most extraordinary, 



and suggested the specific name. 



Stilpnochlora marginella (Serville). 



1839. Phylloptera marginella Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 405. ["Cape 

 of Good Hope."] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



For comments on this species and close relatives, see a recent sum- 

 marj^ by the author,^^ 

 Anaulacomera nodulosa Stai. 



1873. A[naulacomera] nodulosa St&l, Ofvers. K. Vetensk.-Akad. Forhandl., 

 XXX, p. 43. [Surinam.] 



Igarape-assii. January 17 and February 1, 1912 (two specimens). 

 Four males, four females. 



These specimens are referred to Stal's species with some uncer- 

 tainty, as they are all larger than Stal's measurements, although cer- 

 tain individuals are comparable with the dimensions given by Brunner 

 for the species. The species much resembles A. albonodulosa, but 

 has the fastigium proportionately shorter and thicker, the pronotum 

 shorter, the cerci briefer and not completely curved and the tegminal 

 venation coarser. 



The species has been definitely recorded from Surinam (also 



Paramaribo) and Chapada, Matto Grosso, Brazil. 



Viadana myrtifolia (Linnseus). 



1758. [Gryllus (Tettigonia)] myrtifolius Linnseus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 429. 

 [Surinam.] 



35Entom. News, XXVIII, pp. 107 to 11.3, (1917). 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



A male from Paramaribo, Surinam, (K. Mayo), in the collection 

 of the Academy of Natural Sciences, is specifically identical with 

 the Igarape-assu female. 



The species has been recorded from Surinam, Cayenne and Para, 

 Brazil. 



Coelophyllum-'^ coriaceum (Pictst). 



1888. P[rosagoga] coriacea Pictet, Mem. Soc. Phys. Hist. Nat. Geneve, 

 XXX, No. 6, p. 9, pi. 1, figs. 2, 2a. [Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17, 1912. One female. 



This is, apparently, the first record of the species since the original 



description. 



Coelophyllum rectinerve (Brunner). 



1891. Prosagoga rectinervis Brunner, Verh. k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. Wien, 

 XLI, pp. 170, 171. [Upper Amazonas.] 



Igarape-assu. One male, one female. 



We have before us another female from Chanchamayo, Peru, 

 which fully agrees with the Igarape-assu individuals. The male is 

 faintly smaller than the original measurements for that sex, but 

 otherwise the specimens are in complete accord with the description. 



The range of the species is now known to extend from the upper 

 reaches of the Amazon to its mouth. 



Pseudophyllinae. 

 Acanthodis aquilina (Linnaeus). 



1758. [Gryllus {TeUigonia)] aquilinus Linnsus, Syst. Nat., X ed., p. 430. 



["Indiis."] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



This specimen is inseparable from an individual of the same sex 



from Cayenne, determined and presented to the Academy by Saussure. 



The species is known from localities extending from the mouth to 



the upper portion of the Amazon, north to the Guianas and Venezuela 



(Merida). 



Leurophyllum consanguineum (Serville). 



1839. Acanthodis consanguinea Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 454. 

 [Unknown locality.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one immature male. 



This species is known to range from southeastern Brazil north 



to Cayenne, west to eastern Ecuador. 



Leurophyllum maculipenne (Serville). 



1839. Platyphyllum maculipenne Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 447. 

 [Brazil.] 



3« See Rehn, Entom. News, XXVIII, p. 152, (1917). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



Igarape-assii. January 29, 1912 (one specimen). Three females. 



This striking and beautiful species is well distributed over the 

 Amazonian and Guianan regions. 

 Bliastes submarginatus (Walker). 



1870. Meroncidius siihmarginatus Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. 

 Mus., Ill, p. 4.50. [Para, Braail.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



Kirby has placed Bliastes limbatus Brunner, described from Para, 

 as a synonym of submarginatus ^^, with which action we fully agree. 

 In the present specimen the caudal genicular lobes of the median 

 femora are spined, and the spines on the ventro-cephalic margin 

 of the cephalic and median femora numl^er three instead of four 

 as described bj^ Brunner. 

 Teleutias aduncus Stai. 



1874. T[eleidias] aduncus Stal, Recens. Orth., II, p. 88. [Unknown local- 

 ity. 1 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description and the 

 later one by Brunner. This is the first exact locality known for 

 the species, which was recorded by Brunner from Upper Amazonia. 



Diophanes salvifolium (Lichtenstein). 



" 1796. Locusta salnfolia Lichtenstein, Catal. Mus. Hamburg, III, p. 82." 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



This specimen has the wings with a complete but narrow distal 

 and peripheral edging of whitish, while the hyaline character of the 

 interspaces of the axillary and radiate fields of the wings is very 

 pronounced. 



Copiphorinse. 



Copiphora cornuta (DeGeer). 



1773. Locusta cornuta DeGeer, Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 441, pi. 37, fig. 7. 

 (Surinam.]- 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



These specimens are fully typical of the species, except that the 

 dorso-caudal margin of the median tibiae bear four to five spines 

 in the Para individual and five in that from Igarape-assu. The 

 presence of but three spines on this margin has been considered 

 diagno.stic of this species by Karny, but reliance cannot be placed 

 on the number of marginal spines in this instance as in many others, 

 the material before us showing sufficient variation to nullify the 



" Synon. Catal. Orth., II, p. 331, (1906). 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



diagnostic value of this feature. We have also before us for study 

 a pair from Paramaribo, Surinam (K. Mayo) and a female from 

 Bartica, British Guiana (March 25, 1913; H. S. Parish), all belonging 

 to the Academy. The five specimens show there is a very decided 

 amount of variation in the intensity of the tuberculation of the 

 fastigium, but all are clearly referable to the same species. Both 

 Guianan females have three spines on the dorso-caudal margin of 

 the median tibise, while the Paramaribo male has three spines on 

 this margin on one limb and four on the other. 



The species has already been recorded from Para by Walker and 

 Bruner. 



Acantheremus elegans Kamy. 



1907. Acantheremus elegans Karny, Abhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. 

 Wien, IV, heft 3, p. 9, fig. 1. [Surinam.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description of the 

 species, differing only in the slightly greater size of the specimen 

 before us. 



Neoconocephalus nigropunctatus (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Conocephalus nigropunctatus Redtenbacher, Verhandl. k.-k. zool.- 

 botan. Gesell. Wien, XLI, pp. 380, 391, pi. Ill, fig. 32. [Upper Amazon; 

 Brazil; Surinam; Cuba; Cayenne.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) Three males, one female. 



Benevides, Parc4. (H. H. Smith.) Two males. [U. S. N. M.] 



Contamano, Rio Ucayali, Peru. October to December, 1912. 

 One male, two females. 



The Contamano specimens have been immersed in a liciuid pre- 

 servative and in consequence all have lost their original coloration, 

 but they are identical with the Para male, and all fully agree with 

 the original description. 



Bruner has recorcled^^ the species from Para and Benevides. 

 Neoconocephalus fratellus (Griffini). 



1891. Conocephalus frater Redtenbacher (not of Kirby, 1890), Verhandl. 



k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. Wien, XLI, pp. 381, 399. [Cuba; St. Vincent, 



Lesser Antilles; Trinidad; Brazil; Upper Amazons.] 

 1899. Conocephalus fratellus GriflSni, Misc. Entom., VII, p. 5. (New name.) 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



The tegmina are appreciably shorter in this specimen than the 

 measurements given for those of the same sex by Redtenbacher; 

 otherwise the specimen is typical. 



58 Ann. Carneg. Mus., IX, p. 392, (1915). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



Homorocoryphus cocanus (Bolivar). 



1881. Conocephalus cocanus Bolivar, Anale.s Soc. Espafi. Hist. Nat., X, p. 

 497. [Coca, Ecuador.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) Three males, two females. 



Para. (Thayer Expedition.) One female. [M. C. Z.] 



These specimens have been compared with a male from Chan- 

 chamayo, Peru, in the collection of the Academy, and found to be 

 inseparable. 



The species was recorded from Cayenne by Redtenbacher. 



Homorocoryphus brunneri (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Conocephalus brunneri Redtenbacher, Verhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, pp. 385, 423. [Theresopolis, Brazil; Upper Amazons; 

 Buenos Aires and Rosario, Argentina; "Yalapa."] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



Listroscelinse. 



Phlugis marginata (Redtenbacher). 



1891. Thysdrus viarginalus Redtenbacher, Verhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. 

 Gesell. Wien, XLI, pp. 534, 537. [Upper Amazonia.] 



•Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



This specimen, the first known from an exact locality, fully agrees 

 with the original description, except that the caudal femora are 

 slightly shorter. 

 Phlugis chelifera n. sp. (PL II, figs. 41-43.) 



Closely related to P. abnorfms (Redtenbacher),^^ from Retalulen,'**' 

 but differing in the somewhat smaller size; in the male cerci being 

 quite short, not a quarter as long as the subgenital plate; in the 

 internal projection of the paired processes of the disto-dorsal 

 abdominal segment of the male being flattened, vertical, clecurved 

 plates, instead of spiniform; and in the subgenital plate of the same 

 sex having the expanded distal section proportionately shorter and 

 more sharply expanded, the proximal angle of the dorsal margin of 

 the expansion slightly recurved acute, and in the vertical margin 

 of the same section, when seen from the side, being distinctly indented 

 proximad. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5321.] 



Size medium (for the genus) : form subcompressed. Head well 

 seated in the pronotum: occiput and interocular space moderately 



39 Verhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. Wien, XLI, pp. 534, 538, pi. IV, fig. 95. 



*° This is apparently an error of transcription for Retahluleu, western Guate- 

 mala. Karny was apparently unable to place the locahty quoted, and we also 

 have been unable to secure any information concerning it. We feel confident, 

 however, that "Retalulen" is an error for Retahluleu. 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



declivent cephalad; interspace between the eyes equal in width to one 

 of the eyes, this area supplied with a median impressed point : f asti- 

 gium of medium width, bilobate and angularly reflexed: face mod- 

 erateh' retreating, broadly deplanate: ej^es as prominent as usual in 

 the genus, strongly projecting cephalad, when seen from the side the 

 form is ovoid: antennse surpassing the body in length; proximal 

 joint strongly inflated; second joint moderately inflated. Pronotum 

 of the type usual in the genus, distinctly elongate, metazona well 

 produced, greatest width of the pronotum contained twice in the 

 greatest length of the same: cephalic margin of disk shallowly arcu- 

 ate-emarginate, caudal margin strongly arcuate; principal sulcus 

 deeply impressed ; metazona equal to two-fifths the length of the whole 

 disk; a fine medio-longituchnal impressed line present cauclad on the 

 disk; three incomplete transverse sulci indicated on the j^rozona: 

 lateral lobes two and one-half times as long as their depth, the margin 

 arcuate from the cephalic margin of the disk to the very shallow 

 humeral sinus, faintly flattened ventro-cephalad, caudal margin in 

 general oblique subtruncate from the sinus to the arcuate caudal 

 margin of the disk. Tegmina with length slightly exceeding that of 

 the body, narrow, the greatest "svidth contained over seven times in 

 the length: margins in general straight, subparallel; apex rather 

 narrowly rounded, sutural in position: discoidal vein straight, oblique, 

 joining the costal margin at about its proximal third; number of rami 

 in the marginal field sixteen, these straight and weakly oblique in 

 trend; ulnar vein triramose distad; transverse nervures straight, 

 weakly oblique, in general evenly spaced: tympanal field largely 

 covered by the pronotal extension. Wings surpassing the tegminal 

 apices by half the length of the tegmina, moderately acuminate. 

 Penultimate disto-dorsal abdominal segment large, subcucuUate, 

 distal margin broadly arcuato-angulate, the mesal portion of the mar- 

 gin with an overlapping transparent bisinuate lamellation, visible 

 only under fair magnification: disto-dorsal abdominal segment ver- 

 tical, largely under the penultimate segment, roundly depressed 

 mesad, roundly elevated disto-laterad; free margin with a median 

 very deep U-emargination, laterad of which are paired V-emargina- 

 tions of subequal depth, the processes between the three emargina- 

 tions compressed, subfalciform, with their apices subacute and di- 

 rected ventrad; laterad of the lateral emarginations the segment is 

 produced into subconchate projections, which have a thickened ridge 

 along their dorsal margin and are distinctly concave ventrad, when 

 seen from the side the projections are spatulate, angulato-arcuate 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



dorsad and distad, narrowly rounded disto-ventrad, sigmoid ventrad: 

 supra-anal plate well hidden, acute-angulate in form: cerci very short, 

 simple, styliform, faintly sinuate, apex blunt: subgenital plate of the 

 elongate, specialized tj^De found in the genus, compressed; when 

 seen from the side the plate is narrowed at the distal third, thence 

 strongly compressed, the dorsal margin arcuate-emarginate with the 

 dorsal angle acute produced; distal margin oblique sinuato-truncate, 

 the disto-ventral angle produced, bluntly angulate, ventral margin 

 angulato-arcuate; when seen from the venter the plate is regularly 

 narrowing distad, the proximal half with a distinct median carina, the 

 distal half narrowly fissate, the apex of the fissure narrowly broad- 

 ened; when viewed from the dorsum the branches of the plate are 

 seen to be thickened and inflated from the basal excavation of the 

 plate to the disto-dorsal angle, or in the section which is arcuate- 

 emarginate when seen from the side. Cephalic femora with three 

 spines on the ventro-cephalic margin and four on the ventro-caudal 

 margin; cephalic tibiae with five spines on each ventral margin ex- 

 clusive of the apical ones. Median femora uhspined on margins; 

 median tibiae with two spines on the ventro-cephalic margin. Caudal 

 femora of the usual type, with nine very small spines on the ventro- 

 external margin and six of the ventro-internal margin. 



General color honey yellow, the wings weakly washed with chamois, 

 parts of the head, lateral lobes of the pronotum and limbs tending 

 toward clay color. Eyes walnut brown. 



Length of body, 12.4 mm.; length of pronotum, 3.3; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 1.6; length of tegmen, 12.4; greatest A\idth of tegmen, 

 1.6; length of caudal femur, 9.1. 



In addition to the type we have before us four paratypic males, all 

 from Bartica, British Guiana (H. S. Parish; March 6, 24 and 26; 

 April 15, 1913), in the collection of the Academy. These specimens 

 are all slightly larger than the type, but otherwise inseparable. The 

 number of rami in the costal field of the tegmina ranges from fifteen 

 to eighteen. In these specimens the coloration, particularly of the 

 exposed portion of the wings and distad on the tegmina, is strongly 

 approaching cosse green, the limbs also in part washed with weak j avel 

 green. 



Phlugiola redtenbacheri Karny. 



1911. Phlugiola redtenbacheri Karny, iVbhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. 

 Wien, IV, heft 3, p. 20. [Surinam.] 



Branganza, State of Para. (Miss H. B. ]\Ierrill.) One female. 



[A. N. S. P.] 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



This specimen fully agrees with the original description and figure. 

 As far as we are aware the two localities given above are all those 

 known for this striking and peculiar genus and species. 



AgTOeciinsB. 

 Paralobaspis personata n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 44, 45.) 



Differing from P. picta,*^ from Ecuador, the genotype and only 

 previously described species of the genus, in the shorter pronotum 

 and shorter and more arcuate ovipositor, the much shorter tegmina, 

 in the coloration of the mouthparts and the face, the latter being solid 

 black in the present species, in the face being almost without impressed 

 punctations, in the generally unicolorous pronotum, in the unicolorous 

 prosternal spines, in the more unicolorous limbs and in the fewer 

 spines on the ventro-cephalic margins of the cephalic and median 

 femora. 



Type: 9 ; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5322.] 



Size medium: form relatively robust, subcompressed: surface 

 smooth. Head with the exposed dorsal length slightly less than one- 

 half as long as the dorsum of the pronotum, ventral portion of head 

 quite broad, narrowing dorsad: fastigium as characteristic of the 

 genus, its plane in general continuous with the occipital line, the apex 

 with a slightly decurved spine, the general chrection of which is ceph- 

 alad, cephalic margin of the fastigium ventrad of the spine distinctly 

 compressed and carinate: paired ocelli subtrigonal in form, median 

 ocellus small, in general circular: face with the very faintest and very 

 sparsest type of punctation : eyes moderately prominent, irregularly 

 subcircular in basal outline, slightly flattened cephalad and even more 

 weakly so ventro-caudad : antennae over twice as long as the body; 

 proximal joint with the projection on the disto-internal face rounded 

 dentiform. Pronotum with its dorsal line straight when seen from 

 the side, in transverse section moderately arcuate dorsad, rounding 

 broadly into the lateral lobes : disk of pronotum quite narrow on the 

 cephalic half of the pronotum, moderately expanding on the meta- 

 zona, cephalic margin of disk with the faintest possible arcuate emar- 

 gination, caudal margin of disk regularly arcuate; principal trans- 

 verse sulcus weakly impressed, placed mesad, prozona crossed at its 

 middle by a more decidedly impressed arcuate sulcus, which is weak 

 mesad: lateral lobes of the pronotum twice as long as deep; cephalic 

 margin of the lobes straight oblique, regularly rounding at the ventro- 



«Boll. Mus. Zool. Anat. Comp. Torino, XIII, No. 311, p. 89, (1898). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



cephalic angle into the oblique, but more nearly horizontal, weakly 

 sinuate ventral margin, ventro-caudal angle roundly obtuse, caudal 

 margin oblique, in general straight, with a broad though shallow 

 humeral sinus; surface of lateral lobes moderately undulate, having 

 one center of elevation or "boss" on the prozona, the other in the 

 position of similar structures in the Conocephalinffi. Tegmina 

 slightly surpassing the apices of the caudal femora, subequal in mdth, 

 the greatest width contained nearly six times in the length: costal 

 margin straight except for short arcuations proximad and distad, 

 sutural margin straight, apex rounded: principal venation simple; 

 mecUan vein diverging distad of the middle of the cliscoidal vein; 

 reticulations in general irregular, the transverse nervures clearly 

 defined only in the proximal portions of the marginal and discoidal 

 fields. Wings reaching to the apices of the tegmina. Prosternal 

 spines elongate, aciculate, Aveakly recurved, parallel: mesosternal 

 lobes narrow, very acute, the apices weakly spiniform: metasternal 

 lobes weakly obtuse-angulate, the angle briefly spiniform. Disto- 

 dorsal abdominal segment with an impressed, medio-longitudinal 

 crease, the free margin being produced each side of this into subspini- 

 form projections, supra-coxal sections of the margin broadly and 

 shallowly arcuato-emarginate: cerdi tapering, with the apices rather 

 sharply aciculate, gently arcuate when seen from the side: ovipositor 

 moderately falcate, in length almost equal to twice the length of the 

 pronotal disk, greatest depth of the ovipositor inesad ; dorsal margin 

 of ovipositor very faintly curved in distal two-thirds, ventral margin of 

 same regularly arcuate, apex acute: subgenital plate in general tri- 

 gonal, the margin having a distinct angulate sinuation each side of 

 the median V-emargination. Cephalic femora subequal to the pro- 

 notum in length, the ventro-cephalic margin with two spines distad: 

 median femora with three to four spines in the same position on the 

 same margin; all genicular lobes spined excepting the caudal ones of 

 the cephalic femora. Caudal femora about three-fourths as long as 

 the tegmina, robust proximad, narrowed distad, ventro-external 

 margin with eight spines. 



General coloration clay color to ochraceous-buff, the abdomen 

 approaching buckthorn brown, the dorsal aspect of the head and 

 pronotum tinted with the same. Head with a large, solid facial area 

 of moderately shining black, which dorsad involves all of the fastigium 

 excepting its dorsal surface, the proximal antennal joint and the entire 

 face, the black area expanding ventrad from as wide as the space 

 between the ventro-cephalic section of the eyes to wider than that 

 15 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



between the latero-proximal angles of the clypeus, extending caudad 

 as broad Unes along the juxta-mandibular portion of the genae, and 

 as three distinct dorso-ventral bars on the proximal half of the cly- 

 peus, one median, the others marginal: mandibles largely zinc orange: 

 eyes dresden brown: antennae yellow ocher, becoming ochraceous 

 tawny distad, with well-spaced annuli of mmnmy brown, these more 

 closely placed proximad than distad, the same section of the antennae 

 with the individual joints marked off by narrow shadow annuli of 

 mummy brown; ventral surface of second article barred transversely 

 proximad and distad with mummy bro-wn. Pronotum with a pair of 

 obliquely disposed spots of mummy broAvn laterad on the rounded 

 shoulder at the cephalic fifth; pair of similar but very much weaker 

 spots are placed immediately caudad of the transverse sulcus, the 

 four spots having a cruciform disposition; area of the median im- 

 pression washed faintly with mummy brown. Tegmina with their 

 base color mummy brown, the venation, primary and secondary, 

 forming a mesh work of warm buff to light buff. Wings infumate. 

 Ovipositor sanford's brown. Limbs ochraceous-buff, the femoral 

 spines (marginal) fuscous, with a fuscous spot surrounding the base 

 of each, apices of the caudal femora infuscate; external face of the 

 caudal femora with an oblique patterned area of fuscous, consisting of 

 two long lines and portions of a number of generally transverse, 

 briefly arcuate, lines: cephalic tibiae with a fuscous patch on each face 

 immediately distad of the foramina, the distal extremity also narrowly 

 infuscate ; median tibiae with similar areas in similar positions ; caudal 

 tibiae marked with fuscous proximad and distad, all tibial spines 

 tipped with fuscous, those of ventral surface with fuscous surrounding 

 their bases. 



Length of body (exclusive of ovipositor), 20 mm.; length of pro- 

 notum, 6.3; greatest width of pronotal disk, 3; length of tegmen, 

 19.8; greatest width of tegmen, 3.2; length of caudal femur, 14.5. 



The type of this most interesting species is unique. 



Gryllacrinae. 

 GryUacris harpistylata n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 46, 47.) 



Allied to G. Icevigata Brunner,^- but differing in the paired produc- 

 tions of the disto-dorsal abdominal segment being closely placed 

 mesad and spiniform, the whole segment more produced mesad, in 

 the cerci being reduced to brief stjdiform appendages, in the sub- 

 genital plate being large, moderately produced and having greatly 



*2 Verhandl. k.-k. zool.-botan. Gesell. Wien, XXXVIII, pp. 321, 344, pi. VIII, 

 fig. 41c. [Upper Amazonia. 1 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



elongate and recurved, hook-like, acute styles, in the smaller general 

 proportions, but actually longer tegmina and wings, in the fewer 

 spines on the ventral margin of the caudal femora, in the restriction 

 of the infuscation of the head to the occiput and fastigium, and in the 

 pronotum being broadly bivittate with fuscous. 



Type: cf ; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Tj^e no. 5323.] 



Size medium: form as usual in the genus, with greatly developed 

 tegmina and wings: surface moderately polished. Head broad, 

 strongly transverse, the face markedly flattened, in fact slightly 

 impressed: occiput strongly arcuate transversely, in side view regu- 

 larly rouncUng over the vertex into the face: vertex broad, about 

 one and one-half times as wide as proximal antennal joint, lateral 

 margins subparallel; lateral ocelli ovate, rather small, median ocellus 

 large, elliptical: eyes rather prominent, weakly projecting dorsad, in 

 basal outline elongate-ovoid: antennse imperfect, at least surpassing 

 the apices of the tegmina and wings, heavy, brittle: third palpal 

 Joint moderately arcuate when seen from the side; fourth joint 

 slightly longer than the third joint, straight, tapering proximad in the 

 proximal half, distal half subequal in width, rather narrow; fifth 

 joint slightly longer than the fourth joint, faintly enlarging distad. 

 Pronotum transverse, in general form strongly rounded transversely: 

 cephalic margin of dorsum faintly arcuate produced mesad; caudal 

 margin arcuate laterad, shallowly and broadly arcuato-emarginate 

 mesad; all margins more or less distinctly cingulate: transverse sulci 

 two in number, the cephalic one placed close to the cephalic margin, 

 being intermarginal and deeply impressed on the lateral lobes, the 

 caudal one placed a short distance cephalad of the caudal margin, 

 on the dorsal surface being broadly obtuse-angulate in form, on the 

 lateral lobes carried regularly and straight ventro-cephalad, joining 

 the cephalic transverse sulcus; intervening area, area of humeral 

 shoulders and caudal section of lateral lobes moderately bullate; a 

 medio-longitudinal impressed area is indicated on the middle of the 

 dorsum: lateral lobes of the pronotum subrectangulate in general 

 form, cephalic margin of the lobes straight dorsad, curving through 

 the rounded ventro-cephalic angle into the weakly oblique cephalic 

 two-thirds of the ventral margin, this rounding into the reversed 

 oblique, short caudal third of the same margin, ventro-caudal angle 

 obtuse, caudal margin straight, no humeral sinus present. Tegmina 

 distad becoming coriaceous and pilose, about one and two-thirds times 

 as long as the body, broad, the greatest width at distal fourth and con- 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



tained but slightly more than three times in the greatest tegminal 

 length; costal margin strongly arcuate in proximal eighth, thence 

 broadly and very shallowly arcuate emarginate to distal third, thence 

 regularly and broadly arcuate to the rounded obtuse-angulate apex; 

 sutural half of distal margin oblique rotundato-truncate, rounding 

 into the sutural margin, which is broadly arcuate, flattened and 

 straight mesad. Wings faintly surpassing the apices of the tegmina, 

 the distal sections as coriaceous and pilose as the tegmina, Proster- 

 num unspined; meso- and metasternal lobes small, rounded laterad. 

 Disto-dorsal abdominal segment large, half domed, dorsal surface 

 with a pair of lateral patches of long pile, a medio-longitucUnal im- 

 pressed cuneiform area placed on the distal half, the free margin 

 mesad supplied with a closely placed pair of slender processes, which 

 when seen from the side are tapering, sinuate, with a recurved apex, 

 these processes reaching as far caudad as the apex of the subgenital 

 plate and their bases placed on each side of the median impression of 

 the segment: cerci simple, tapering, weakly depressed, incomplete in 

 the type, sparse pilose: subgenital plate strongly produced in 

 median linguiform development which is flattened, clothed with long 

 pile and laterad of the base of which spring styles of a most striking 

 type; these being greatly produced, tapering, straight in their distal 

 third, thence regularly arcuate dorsad and mesad, with the apex 

 moderately decurving and produced in a distinct apical spine, the 

 whole of the styles long pilose; the right style is simple, the left is 

 compound, having a dorsal branch forking from the main style near 

 its base, faintly more than one-half as long as the main branch, fol- 

 lowing the principal arm in attenuation and curve but with an un- 

 armed apex. Cephalic and median femora unarmed beneath; ceph- 

 alic and median tibiae with three spines distad on each ventral margin. 

 Caudal femora short, robust, weakly tapering distad, ventro-external 

 margin with four to six spines, ventro-internal margin with three 

 large distal and four minute proximal spines; caudal tibiae with three 

 external and four internal spines on the dorsal margin. 



General coloration between ochraceous-buff and zinc orange, a 

 broad V-shaped patch dorsad between the eyes and a pair of broad 

 sinuate bars on the pronotum at the usual position of the lateral 

 shoulders and also covering the dorsal half of the lateral lobes, 

 bone brown. Ej^es blackish fuscous. Tegmina colorless, semi- 

 transparent proximad on marginal and discoidal fields and translucent 

 washed with pale mummy brown distad; venation pencilled with 

 prout's brown, except immediately at the base of the tegmina, where 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



it is of the general color; anal field weakly suffused and venation 

 heavily pencilled with bone brown. Wings with the venation weakly 

 pencilled with prbut's brown. Disto-dorsal abdominal segment 

 ^ith the paired pilose areas touched with kaiser brown, the paired 

 process of the same segment blackish fuscous; femoral and tibial 

 spines tipped with chestnut brown. 



Length of body, 18 mm.; length of pronotum, 3.6; greatest width 

 of pronotum, 4.2; length of tegmen, 29.5; greatest width of tegmen, 

 9.5; length of caudal femur, 9.6. 



The ij'pe is unique. 



Gryllacris cruenta Brunner. 



1888. Gryllacris cruenta Brunner, Verhandl. k.-k. zool. botan. Gesell. Wien, 

 XXXVIII, pp. 321. 315. [Upper Amazonia.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



This scarce and striking species has been recorded by Griffini, 

 on the basis of a male, from Paramaribo, Surinam.^^ His specimen 

 showed certain differences from the original description, but these 

 he considered to be individual. Our specimen also shows certain 

 differences, but these are only in part those noted by Griffini. Our 

 specimen has the coloration much like that given in the original 

 description, less like that given by Griffini as far as the head and 

 pronotum are concerned. The caudal femora have nine to ten 

 spines on the ventro-internal margin instead of three to four as 

 described, and eight as given by Griffini, while the external margin 

 has seven to eight spines seven are given in the original description 

 and six by Griffini. The caudal tibiae have five spines on each 

 dorsal margin instead of five internal and seven external as originally 

 described, and six external and five to six internal as described bj^ 

 Griffini. It is evident there is considerable variation individually 

 in the number of these spines and their diagnostic value must not 

 be overrated. The present specimen is slightly smaller than the 

 original measurements of the female, except that the ovipositor is 

 of exactly the same length. 



GRYLLID^. 



Gryllotalpinse. 



Scapteriscus didactylus (Latreille). 



180-1. Gryllotaipa didactyla Latreille, Hist. Nat. Gen. Crustac. et Ins., XII, 

 p. 122. [Cayenne; Surinam.] 



Paramaribo, Surinam. (K. Mayo.) Two females. 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. (Thayer Expedition.) One 



female. [M. C. Z.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17 (1) and 23 (1), 1912. Five females. 



« Ann. Mus. Nat. Hangar., XII, p. 249, (1914). 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



These specimens all represent the long and narrow headed type 

 of the didactylns-camerani group. We have no Brazilian material 

 of this species in the collections before us other than those listed 

 above, and it seems quite probable that some of the older records 

 of this species, particularly those of its occurrence at points far 

 removed from the Guianan region, may relate to camerani or other 

 species. We have material and records showing the occurrence of 

 camerani over the upper and middle Amazonian regions. 



The present series shows great size variation, the extremes in the 



Igarape-assu series being very great. 



Ripipteryx circumcincta Saussure. 



1874. Rhipipteryx circumcincta Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mexiq., Rech. Zool., 

 VI, p. 358. [South America.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



Igarape-assu. December, 1911 and January 17, 1912 (two speci- 

 mens with dates). Four males, thirteen females. 



This series is quite uniform in coloration and size. The only 

 exact records we have for the occurrence of this species are those 

 of Bruner of material from Benevides and Para, State of Para, 

 Brazil. 



Gryllinae. 

 Hygronemobius albipalpus (Saussure). 



1877. N[emobius] albipalpus Saussure, Melang. Orthopt., II, fasc. V, p. 257. 

 [Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17 to 23, 1912. Seven males, fourteen 

 females. 



These specimens have been recorded by Hebard in his study of 

 the genus.^^ 



Nemobius brasiliensis (Walker).^^ 



1869. Argizala brasiliensis Walker, Catal. Dermapt. Salt. Brit. Mus., I, p. 

 61. [Brazil; Santarem, Brazil.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This widely distributed and striking species has been recorded 



from as far south as Paraguay and north to Mexico. 



Hemigryllus ortonii (Scudder). 



1869. Nemobius ortonii Scudder, Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, p. 330. 

 [Napo or Maranon (Rivers).] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



« Entom. News, XXVI, p. 198. 



^= We find that Bruner's Nemobius argentinus, recently described from Car- 

 carana, Argentina (Ann. Carneg. Mus., X, p. 371, (1916)) is identical with the 

 present author's Ne7nobius hebardi, from Buenos Aires and the Misiones, Argen- 

 tina, described over a year previous (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 290, 

 figs. 4 and 5. (1915)). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Piexe Boi. east of Para. November to December, 1907. (H. B. 

 Merrill.) One female. 



Igarape-assu. January 17 and 23, 1912 (two individuals only 

 with dates). Two males, five females. 



We have already resurrected and correctly placed this specific 

 name,^^ which antedates Saussure's kreichhaumeri, the designation 

 under which this species has been universally reported in the literature. 

 There is some variation in size in individuals of the same sex, but the 

 diagnostic features are always well marked. 



Anurogryllus muticus (DeGeer). 



1773. Gryllus mulicus DeGeer, ]Mem. Hist. Ins., Ill, p. 520, pi. 43, fig. 2. 

 [Burinam.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



Igarape-assu. Two females. 



The Igarape-assu specimens are quite different in size, but this 

 is not unusual in the species. The Para individual is appreciably 

 paler than the Igarape-assu representatives, being more ferruginous 

 and, less fuscous. The three specimens examined all have caudate 

 Mings. 



APHEMOGRYLLUS^" n3w genu?. 



Related to MiogryUus Saussure, differing in the elongate and 

 slender limbs, in the elongate metatarsus of the caudal limbs, in 

 the great reduction in size of the ventral pair of distal spurs of the 

 caudal tibise, in the striking disposition of the venation of the lateral 

 field of the tegmina in both sexes, in the greater (cf) or lesser (9) 

 strangulate character of the entire pronotum and in the tegmina of 

 the male sex having no speculum present and the stridulating area 

 very simply developed. 



Generic Description. — Head broader than the pronotum: inter- 

 antennal portion of face subequal to greatest width of a single 

 antennal scrobe, this area rounded in profile: eyes heptagonoid- 

 ovate in outline, little prominent. Pronotum broader than long, 

 distinctly ( cf ) or appreciably ( 9 ) strangulate : lateral lobes distinctly 

 longer than deep, the ventral margin obliquely arcuato-truncate. 

 Tegmina of male with dorsal field but weakly developed as a stridulat- 

 ing area, no speculum present ; lateral field with two veins in addition 

 to the mediastine vein, these diverging from the base and widely 

 spaced: tegmina of female with venation of lateral field as in male, 

 venation of dorsal field simple. Cephalic tibiae with a decided, 



« Trans. Amer. Entom. Soc, XLIII, p. 128, (1916). 

 •*' From a, without; V''/!"'/ voice and Gryllus. 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



large, external foramen and a small internal one of variable exact 

 size and indication. Caudal tibiae with each dorsal margin armed 

 with four to five spines; distal spurs of caudal tibiae three in number 

 on each side, the median the longest in each group, ventral spur 

 on each side short, the two subequal in length: caudal metatarsus 

 elongate, over twice as long as the remaining tarsal joints, dorsal 

 surface armed the whole length of the external margin and distad 

 on the internal margin, internal apical metatarsal spur over one- 

 half as long as third tarsal joint. Ovipositor shorter than caudal 

 femora, straight, apex acuminate, dorsal valves surpassing ventral 

 ones. 



Aphemogryllus gracilis n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 48-.j3.) 



Type: cf; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. February 6, 1912. 

 (H. *S. Parish.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Tvpe no. 5327.] 



Size small : form much like species of Nemohius: surface moderately 

 polished. Head distinctly broader than the pronotum, moderately 

 inflated: occiput strongly and regularly declivent from its caudal 

 section to the interantennal protuberance; latter region but slightly 

 wider than a single antennal scrobe, well rounded when seen from 

 the side, its lateral margins faintly converging ventrad: ocelli disposed 

 in a broad, depressed triangle, relatively large: palpi relatively short, 

 robust, compressed; forth joint of same subequal to the third, slightly 

 expanding; fifth joint distinctly compressed mesad, gradually expand- 

 ing distad, the apical margin strongly oblique truncate: antennae 

 at least as long as the body. Pronotum strangulate when compared 

 with the head, the greatest width about one and one-half times the 

 greatest length: cephalic margin truncate, caudal margin feebly 

 bisinuate, both margin strongly hirsute, the surface of the pronotum 

 with many short, adpressed hairs; a fine medio-longitudinal sulcus 

 present, which becomes weaker caudad: lateral lobes subquadrate, 

 the ventral margin moderately arcuate ascendent caudad, the 

 ventro-cephalic angle broadly rounded, the ventro-caudal obtuse. 

 Tegmina well developed but falling slightly short of the apex of the 

 body; apex well rounded: lateral field relatively broad; mediastine 

 vein simple, preceded by two free veins, these diverging from an 

 identical point near the base of the tegmen, the space between the 

 vein itself and the first free vein quite wide; humeral and discoidal 

 veins close to one another and at several points coalescing; stridulat- 

 ing field relatively simple, no speculum present and normal Gryllid 

 venation quite recognizable; median vein straight, simple; ulnar 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



vein short, transverse ;^^ anal vein following its general direction as 

 the stridulating vein but not thickened, and from the general neigh- 

 borhood of the usually present Grylloid anal node continuing an 

 arcuate but longitudinal course to the apical margin of the tegmen; 

 axillary veins three in number, the first terminating at the "node," 

 the second continued, following the trend of the anal vein, to a 

 point of fusion distad on the sutural margin, third axullary vein 

 following the sutural margin distad of the "node:" area between 

 the ulnar and median veins mesad and distad wide, with three 

 cross-veins^^ and distad a spurious longitudinal vein; anal and axillary 

 veins connected by a number of cross-veins. Wings caudate, sur- 

 passing the closed tegmina by considerably more than the tegminal 

 length. Cerci very elongate, nearly as long as the body, tapering. 

 Subgenital plate moderately produced, spoon-shaped. Cephalic 

 tibiae with the cephalic face imperforate, but with a smooth elliptical 

 area in the usual tympanal position; caudal face with a large, elongate, 

 elliptico-reniform tympanum. Caudal femora moderately robust, 

 the apex relatively slender: caudal tibiae armed on the dorso-external 

 margin with four spines, the dorso-internal margin with four to 

 five spines; external distal spurs relatively short, the median one 

 slightly more than a third as long as the metatarsus and half again 

 as long as the dorsal one, ventral spur distinctly shorter than the 

 dorsal one, internal distal spurs with the median and dorsal sub- 

 equal in length, about one-half as long as the metatarsus, the ventral 

 small and subequal to the ventro-external spur: caudal metatarsus 

 slender, moderately compressed distad; dorso-external margin with 

 seven to nine adpressed spines, dorso-external spur faintly more 

 than one-half as long as the internal one, the latter reaching to 

 slightly distad of the middle of the third tarsal joint. 



Allotype: 9 ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil, Januarj- 23, 

 1912. "(H. S. Parish.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 



The following features are those of difference from the type. 



Pronotum faintly less strangulate; cephalic margin of same very 

 shallowly arcuate-emarginate. Tegmina slightly shorter than in 

 the male, reaching not quite to the middle of the al)domen; humeral 

 and discoidal veins well separated, slightly diverging distad, humeral 

 vein not furcate distad: dorsal field with the median, ulnar, anal 

 and two axillary veins regularly disposed, cross-veins, indicated 



■** At least this is the usual position of the ulnar vein in the GrylhnEe. 

 *' The ulnar vein (so-called) might be considered another one. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



sparsely proximad, more frequently distad. Ovipositor straight, 

 robust, shorter than the caudal femora; apex acuminate, ventral 

 valves shorter than the dorsal ones. Caudal femora with ifour 

 spines on each dorsal margin: caudal metatarsus with five to six 

 spines on the dorso-external margin. 



General coloration of the head, pronotum and dorsum of the 

 abdomen ranging from mummy brown (recessive type) to blackish 

 brown — number one of Ridgway (intensive type), the limbs and 

 ventral surface buckthorn brown (recessive type) to mummy brown 

 in those having the darkest dorsal coloration (intensive) ; tegmina 

 buffy hyaline to weak fuscous hyaline, the venation of the dorsal 

 coloration. Head unicolorous with the mouth-parts washed with 

 ochraceous-tawny to amber brown; ocelli ochraceous-buff to mars 

 yellow; eyes mottled blackish-brown and dresden brown to mummy 

 brown; palpi of the same coloration as the limbs; antennae of the 

 general coloration. Wings whitish hyaline, with a brownish tinge 

 in the intensive specimens, with a distinct iridescence, longitudinal 

 veins colored similarly to those of the tegmina. Cerci of the dorsal 

 coloration. Pubescence of the limbs golden. Caudal femoral washed 

 more or less completely with the dorsal coloration. 



Measurements {in millimeters) 



Length Length Greatest Length Greatest Length Length Length 



of body of pro- width of of teg- width of of wing of caudal of ovi- 



(exclusive notuni prono- men dorsal distad of femur positor 



of ovi- turn field of tegmen 



positor) tegmen 



Igarape-assu, <2/pe 8.2 1.2 1.6 4.6 1.5 6.3 4.9 



Igarape-assu, 



paratype 7.2 1..3 1.8 4.2 1.4 5.8 5 



9 

 Igarape-assu, 



allotype 8.8 1.5 2.2 4.5 1.6 7.3 5.2 3.9 



Igarapo-assu, 



paratype 9.5 1.7 2.1 4.5 1.6 7.2 5.5 3.9 - 



Rio Pacaya, Peru, 



paratype 8.7 1.9 2.3 4.7 1.6 8.2 5.6 3.5 



In addition to the type and allotype we have examined a paratypic 

 series of seven; one male and three females bearing the same date 

 as the type (one female has no date) and three females from Rio 

 Pacaya, Peru, July, 1912, all in the collection of the Academy. 

 When examined for features of variation we find that the paratypic 

 male has five external and four internal dorsal marginal spines on 

 the caudal tibiae. The females all have four spines, excepting one 

 from Igarape-assu which has four internal on one limb and five on 

 the other. The spines on the dorsal margin of the caudal metatarsus 




1918.] - NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



vary from six to eight in number on the external margin and four 

 to six on the internal margin in the paratypes. The paratypie 

 male has the ulnar vein of the tegmina more oblique than in the 

 type and the first cross-vein between the anal and median veins 

 is also more oblique, forming an angle in the anal vein at its juncture, 

 the next cross-vein obliquely sigmoid, while the proximal disposition 

 of the axillary veins of the tegmina is also slightly different. One 

 of the Rio Pacaya females has the humeral vein forked near the 

 base. 



Miogryllus COnvolutUS (Johannson). 



1763. Gryllus convolutus Johannson, Amoen. Acad., VI, p. 399. [Surinam.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) Two females. 



Igarape-assu. January 17 to February 6, 1912. Four males, nine 

 females. 



These specimens have already been recorded by Hebard in a 

 study of the genus. ^^ 



Miogryllus verticalis (Serville). 



1839. Gryllus verticalis Serville, Hist. Nat. Ins., Orth., p. 343. [Cayenne.] 



Igarape-assu. One male. 



This macropterous individual has been recorded by Hebard in 

 his study of the genus. ^^ 



Miogryllus tucumanensis Glglio-Tos. 



1894. G[ryllus] (Miogryllus) tucumayiensis Giglio-Tos, Boll. Mus. Zool. 

 Anat. Comp. Torino, IX, No. 184, p. 41. [San Pablo, Province of Tucu- 

 man, Argentina.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17, 1912 (one). Two females. 



These specimens fully agree with the description of this species, 

 except for the presence of caudate wings and having the tegmina 

 slightly longer and overlapping. They are, as far as we can 

 determine, representative of the macropterous condition of this 

 species, a phase previously unkno\\Ti. In the two specimens the 

 tegmina measure 8.4 and 8.5 millimeters in length, while the other 

 dimensions are as given in the original description. 



The reference of the species to Miogryllus is according to the 

 original author, and merely tentative as far as we are concerned, 

 for its exact relationship to Gryllodes remains to be determined, when 

 more is known of the constancy and variation of characters in the 

 latter genus. 



=» Journ. N. Y. Entom. Soc, XXIII, p. 109, (1915). 

 " Ibid., p. 121, (1915). 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



As far as known the species has been taken only at the two widely 

 separated localities given above. 

 Gryllus assimilis (Fabricius). 



1775. [Achela] assimilis Fabricius, Syst. Entom., p. 280. [Jamaica.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



Peixe-boi, east of Para. November to December, 1907. 



(H. B. Merrill.) One male, one female. 



Igarape-assu. Two females. 



The Para and Igarape-assu specimens have been recorded bj^ 

 Rehn and Hebard in a critical study of Gryllus as found in America. ^^ 

 The Peixe-boi pair would be represented by the following symbols, 

 as previously established by us: cf , AVauOl; 9 , AVbu02. 



Oecanthinae. 



Lerneca varipes Walker. 



1869. Lerneca varipes Walker, Catal. Spec. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., I, p. 72. 

 [Amazon Region.] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



This specimen is inseparable from individuals of both sexes of 

 this species from Caparo, Trinidad, comments on which will be 

 published at a later date. 



Trigonidiinse. 



Anaxipha*^ esau n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 54, 55.) 



Apparently a relative of ^. tibialis (Saussure), but strongly marked 

 off from any other species, studied or known to us, in the presence of 

 short, curved hairs placed along the veins of the tegmina and also 

 regularly over the intervening areas, the exposed portion of the wings, 

 the body and the limbs being more decidedly haired than usual. 

 From tibialis the present species also differs in the shorter and more 

 robust cephalic tibiae, the shorter caudal metatarsi, in the reduction 

 of the cross-veins in the dorsal field of the female tegmina, in the dis- 

 tinct sculpturing of the main veins of the same and in the more robust 

 general form. 



Type: 9 ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. February 1, 1912. 

 (H. S. Parish.) [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5342.] 



Size small: form elongate, slender, subcylindrical, wings caudate: 

 surface closely and relatively heavily haired, on the tegmina the hairs 



52 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1915, p. 319, (1915). 



^^ For comments on the characters separating Cyrtoxipha and Anaxipha, see 

 Rehn and Hebard, Entom. News, XXIII, pp. 411 and 412; Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1916, pp. 300 to 302 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



are particularly disposed along the longitudinal veins. Head with 

 the greatest width across the eyes subequal to the greatest width at 

 the caudal margin of the pronotum; when seen from the side the inter- 

 ocular section of the head is regularly declivent from the narrowly 

 rounded occiput, interantennal protuberance broadly rounded when 

 seen in the same view, when seen from the dorsum subcompressed; 

 hairs on the rostrum decurved: eyes with axis subvertical, in basal 

 outline Inroad ovoid, prominent when seen from the dorsum, slightly 

 projecting cephalad : antennae surpassing the body in length, proximal 

 joint large, moderately deplanate: palpi with the third and fourth 

 joints slender, the third subequal in width; the fourth faintly expand- 

 ing distad, slightly shorter than the third; fifth joint reversed pyra- 

 midical, about one and one-half times as long as the distal margin, 

 which is straight truncate, the joint slightly flattened. Pronotum 

 transverse, its greatest caudal width nearly equal to one and one-half 

 times the greatest leng-th of the same, narrowing cephalad, so that the 

 cephalic width is distinctly less than the caudal width and faintly 

 less than the width of the adjacent portion of the head, in transverse 

 section the pronotum is regularly rounded dorsad and into the lateral 

 lobes; cephalic margin of the dorsum gently arcuate, the caudal 

 margin broadly obtuse-angulate, the immediate angle narrowly 

 rounded, both margins faintly cingulate; hairs on the pronotum 

 large and chsetiform, those along the caudal margin directed dorso- 

 caudad, those on the lateral lobes directed cephalad; a short cephalo- 

 meclian longitudinal sulcus present; lateral lobes longer than deep, 

 rounding into the dorsal surface; ventro-cephalic angle broadly 

 rounded, ventral margin straight, ventro-caudal angle narrowly 

 rounded, caudal margin straight; surface of the lateral lobes obliquely 

 impressed. Tegmina reaching to the apex of the abdomen, pilosity 

 covering the dorsal surface from the region of the humeral angle, the 

 lateral field almost unhaired; lateral field with three veins, of which 

 one parallels the margin, another is very brief, the third reaches the 

 costal margin at about the distal fourth of the field; mediastine, 

 humeral, discoidal and median veins of the tegmina subparallel, 

 straight; ulnar vein arcuate proximad ; anal vein bent both proximad 

 and distad, straight between, joining the axillary vein at the distal 

 third of the tegmen; axillary veins two in number, these joining and 

 continuing as a single vein. Exposed portion of the wings projecting 

 distad of the closed tegmina a distance slightly greater than one-half 

 the length of the tegmina, haired similar to the tegmina. Ovipositor 

 no longer than the head and pronotum together, robust, dorsal mar- 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



gin nearly straight, ventral margin arcuate in distal half, apex acumi- 

 nate: subgenital plate narrowly fissate-emarginate mesacl. Cephalic 

 tibiae short, broadly fusiform inflated in proximal two-thirds, subequal 

 and subcompressed in distal third; cephalic face with a large elliptico- 

 reniform tympanum, caudal face with a much smaller elliptical tym- 

 panum. Caudal femora subequal in length to the tegmina, moder- 

 ately inflated; caudal tibiae with three pairs of marginal spurs, which 

 are not opposite in their insertion, the external series slightly more 

 proximal in their position when compared with their equivalent on the 

 internal series, the internal spurs faintly arcuate, their dorso-internal 

 edge also faintly thickened, knife-like and pencilled with blackish; 

 disto-external spurs small; disto-internal spurs very much longer, 

 the dorsal one about two-thirds as long as the metatarsus, the dorso- 

 internal margin thickened and pencilled as on the internal marginal 

 spurs; metatarsi slightly longer than the remaining tarsal joints 

 combined, a single spine present at the disto-internal angle, the in- 

 ternal spur of the metatarsus large, reaching almost to the extremity 

 of the tarsus, slightly falcate, with the dorsal edge thickened and 

 pencilled as is the case with the other internal spurs. 



General color ochraceous-buff, the head distinctly and the pro- 

 notum faintly washed with weak russet; eyes clear russet; exposed 

 portion of the wings faintly washed with mummy brown, the veins 

 pale; at distal fourth the cephalic and median femora bear narrow, 

 incomplete annuli of weak mummy brown, indications of a similar 

 one are present on the pregenicular section of the caudal femora. 



Length of body, 4.6 mm.; length of pronotum, 1; greatest (caudal) 

 width of pronotum, 1.3; length of tegmen, 3.7; length of exposed por- 

 tion of wing, 2.7; length of caudal femur, 3.6; length of ovipositor, 1.6. 



The type of tliis species is unique. 



Anaxipha angusticoUis (Saussure). 



1874. Cyrtoxipha angusticoUis Saussure, Miss. Scient. Mex., Rech. Zool., 

 VI, p. 377, pi. 7, fig. 2. [Eastern Cordillera of Mexico.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



Igarape-assii. February 1, 1912 (two). Three females. 



This striking species, which shows great diversity in form between 

 the sexes, has the coloration more generally punctate, from the pres- 

 ent material, than previous descriptions would lead one to suppose. 

 The agreement with the features of the detailed original description is 

 so full there can be no question of the identity, or at the most the 

 very close relationship of the present material. Chopard reported 

 the species from St. Jean du Maroni, French Guiana, and Bruner 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



refers material from Cacagualito, Colombia; Sao Luiz de Caceres, 

 Matto Grosso, Brazil, and British Guiana to it, while Bugaba, Pan- 

 ama is given by Saussure, in the Biologia, as another loealitj^ The 

 form of the whole thorax of the male is so remarkable that its isola- 

 tion from the other members of the genus is quite marked. 

 Anaxipha conspersa (Bruner). 



1916. Cyrtoxipha conspersa Bruner, Ann. Carneg. Mas., X, p. 406. ["Las 

 Juntas" (250 m.), Department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



We have referred this specimen to conspersa although it shows 

 several features of difference, which, however, we feel are due to in- 

 dividual or sexual variation, lack of note or over-emphasis in the 

 original description. In our specimen we see no distinct indication 

 of the ridge, "which separates this region {i. e., depressed section of 

 the vertex) from the front." There is, however, a slight elevation 

 covering the base of the inter-antennal protuberance, which may be 

 the feature referred to by Bruner. The other feature is that the 

 whole occiput caudad of the transverse arcuate depression is solidly 

 mars brown. 



Anaxipha simulacrum n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 56-59.) 



The slender form, the blackish antennae and the shape of the ceph- 

 alic tibiae and of the ovipositor are quite characteristic of tliis very dis- 

 tinct species, which has, at a glance, a Cyrtoxiphine appearance. 

 The head and palpi, however, are Anaxiphine in character. 



The species is not closely related to any of the other forms known 

 to us. 



Type: 9 ; Igarape-assii, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5340.] 



Size very large (for the genus) : form moderatelj' elongate, slender, 

 terete: surface of body moderately shining, with numerous hairs, 

 the marginal ones of the pronotum, particularly laterad, elongate 

 and curved. Head in general vertical, its axis slightly retreating 

 ventro-caudad, its greatest longitudinal length slightly less than the 

 greatest depth (including the mandibles) ; in lateral view the occiput 

 is well arcuate caudad of and between the eyes, thence very strongly 

 arcuate-declivent to the inter-antennal region, which is rounded 

 obtuse-angulate, the ventral section retreating to the clypeal suture; 

 when seen from the dorsum the occiput is broad, very broad behind 

 the eyes, the narrowest portion of the interocular section slightly 

 less than half the width of the head at the caudal margin of the 

 eyes, the least interocular width subequal to the transverse width 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



of one of the eyes, width of the interantennal protuberance hardly 

 more than one-half that of the interocular space: when seen from 

 the dorsum the eyes are moderately prominent, when seen in lateral 

 view they are sub-reniform ovoid: antennsje with the proximal joint 

 broad, subdepressed, the internal margin roundly enlarged; remainder 

 of antennae incomplete: palpi slender, elongate, third joint faintly 

 longer than the fifth and distinctly longer than the fourth joint; 

 fifth joint trumpet-shaped, its length about two and one-half times 

 the distal width, distal truncation faintly oblique. Pronotum 

 slightly longitudinal when seen from the dorsum, regularly rounding 

 transversely, when seen from the dorsum slightly expanding caudad; 

 cephalic margin of the dorsum truncate mesad, caudal margin 

 moderately arcuate, these margins cingulate; dorsum with the 

 medio-longitudinal sulcus indicated on the cephalic two-thirds, 

 very deeply so in the median region, a transverse sulcus weakly 

 indicated mesad: lateral lobes longitudinal, with a distinct caudo- 

 ventral trend; cephalic margin and ventro-cephalic angle regularly 

 and broadly rounded, ventro-caudal angle rounded rectangulate, 

 caudal margin slightly oblique, straight, the vicinity of the ventro- 

 caudal angle strongly impressed. Tegmina slightly surpassing the 

 apex of the abdomen, the closed pair cylindrical when seen from the 

 dorsum, the outline of the dorsal field narrowing in the distal fifth ; 

 venation simple, prominent, transverse nervures regularly placed, 

 separating areas which are regularly oblong: lateral field with the 

 discoidal vein straight, regularly but weakly diverging from the 

 humeral vein, incomplete veins costad of the mediastine vein two 

 in number. Wings fully developed, caudate, projecting distad of the 

 tegmina a distance slightly greater than the length of the head and 

 pronotum combined. Ovipositor moderately elongate, relatively 

 slender, very faintly arcuate proximad, more strongly so distad; 

 distal extremity moderately acute, weakly crenulate on the dorsal 

 margin, almost to the weak swelling, which is situated at the distal 

 three-fifths: subgenital plate slightly broader than long, the apex 

 briefly fissate, rounding narrowly into the margins of the plate. 

 Cephalic and median limbs elongate, straight, moderately tapering: 

 cephalic femora subequal to the combined leng^th of the head and 

 pronotum; cephalic tibiae subequal to the femora in length, the 

 distal half quite slender, both faces of the tibiae with elongate reni- 

 form tympana, those of the two faces subequal in size: median 

 femora faintly shorter than the cephalic ones; tibiae subequal in 

 length to the cephalic tibiae and distinctly surpassing the median 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



femora. Caudal femora moderately robust, tapering, surpassing 

 the apex of the ovipositor and falling but slightly short of the tips 

 of the wings; caudal tibiae subequal to the femora in length, very 

 slender, the dorsal margins armed with three pairs of spurs, which are 

 not paired in position, those of the external: margins being more proximal 

 in position than the corresponding spur on the internal margin, the 

 spurs slender, slightly falcate or but faintly hooked at the apex, 

 their length about two and one-half times the depth of the tibial 

 shaft; disto-external spurs very short, the median one three times 

 as long as the dorsal and nearly twice as long as the ventral one; 

 disto-internal spurs two in number, elongate, weakly falcate, the 

 dorsal one about one-half as long as the metatarsus and half again 

 as long as the ventral one: caudal metatarsi about one-fourth as 

 long as the tibiae, straight, the dorsal surface with a short recumbent 

 spine on each margin distad, the internal distal spur about one- 

 half again as long as the external one; second tarsal joint elongate 

 cordiform, the third slender. 



Allotype: c/' ; same data as type. January 26, 1912. 



Differing from the description of the type in the following features: 

 Tegmina relatively narroAv when seen from the dorsum (the pair 

 in repose), narrowing distad: lateral field of the tegmina relatively 

 broad, subequal in width; mediastine vein diverging regularly from 

 the humeral vein distad, the area between with a number of trans- 

 verse nervures which divide it into rectangulate spaces; three free veins 

 are present in the proximal section of the lateral field costad of the 

 mediastine vein: humeral vein curving costad at its apex: speculum 

 elongate diamond-shaped, its length about one-half that of the 

 dorsal field of the tegmen, its greatest length slightly more than 

 one-half its length; postaxillary veins three in number; axillary veins 

 two in number. Styles reaching to the apices of the caudate wings. 



General color buff-yellow, the pubescence largely golden. In 

 the female there is a medio-longitudinal line of raw umber on the 

 closed tegmina, which is distinct proximad and weakens distad. Eyes 

 fuscous-black; antennae distad of the proximal joint blackish, the prox- 

 imal one washed distad with fuscous; second and third tarsal joints of 

 all tarsi washed with fuscous-black; ovipositor rich chestnut bro'v\Ti. 



Measurements (in millimeters). 



cf type 6.3 



9 allotype 



The type and allotype are the only specimens known to us 

 16 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Anaxipha smithi (Saussure). 



1897. Cyrtoxipha smithi Saussure, Biol. Cent.-Amer., Orth., I, p. 236. 

 [Teapa, Tabasco, Mexico.] 



Igarape-assii. One female. 



We have assigned this specimen to smithi without having seen 

 Mexican material of either sex, but it agrees with the description, 

 which was based on the male sex, in all features of any importance. 

 Actual comparison may show the Brazilian material to be distinct, 

 but at this time we know of no evidence requiring its separation. 

 The ovipositor is short and robust, much like in imitator, but the 

 form of the ovipositor is more robust, with a more decided angle 

 to the dorsal line in imitator, while the palpi are more slender and 

 the cephalic tibiae less robust in smithi, the coloration also being 

 different. 



Chopard^^ has reported this species from four localities in French 



Guiana. 



Anaxipha aptera (Chopard). 



1912. C[yrtoxipha] aptera Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 410, 4 figs. [Charvein, St. I.iaurent and Nouveau-Chantier, French 

 Guiana.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana. (K. Mayo.) One male. [A. N. S. P.] 



The wingless condition of the known material of this species may 



not be a specific character of the form, as ciuite a few species are 



known to be dimorphic in this respect. The Para individual has 



four reddish brown longitudinal lines on the vertex and occiput, 



the median pair continued on the interantennal protuberance. 



The Paramaribo specimen hias these absent, 



Anaxipha minuta (Linnaeus). 



1767. [Gryllus] minutus Linnseus, Syst. Nat., ed. XII, p. 694. ["America" 

 (Surinam according to DeGeer).] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male, one female. 



Paramaribo, Dutch Guiana. (K. Mayo.) Three females. 



There is so little in the literature to enable us to pin this name 

 down to a definite species, that we are under the necessity of using 

 it for an insect not disagreeing with the insufficient diagnosis, and 

 found in the region from which mimda was supposed to have come. 

 The Linnean material is probably not in existence, as Stal did not 

 feel that he had it before him, when preparing the Recensio, although 

 part of the basic material of DeGeer's testaceus, which is generalh' 

 considered synonymous with minuta, was in his hands. The present 



" Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, p. 407, (1912). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



species shows no features of difference from the Linnean description 

 which might not be due to discoloration of the original material. 



Anaxipha cayennensis (Saussure). 



1897. Cyrtoxiphus aztecus var. cayennensis Saussure, Biol. Cent.-Amer.", 

 Orth., I, p. 235. [Cayenne.] 



Igarape-assu. (H. S. Parish.) Two males. 



We have used for comparison material from British Guiana, and 

 found some slight differences, chiefly in the relative width of the 

 dorsal field of the tegmina, but nothing sufficiently marked or con- 

 stant to make it advisable to separate the two lots. Saussure 

 considered this merely a variety of azieca, but we prefer to give the 

 name specific rank until more is known concerning its relationship 

 to azteca, in this following Chopard and Bruner. The former author 

 has recorded the species from Nouveau-Chantier, French Guiana; 

 the latter from Santarem, Brazil. Our material is of similar small 

 size to that reported by Bruner.^-' 



Anaxipha nitida (Chopard). 



1912. C[yrto.ripha] nitida Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 408, 4 figs. [Xouveau-Chantier, French Guiana.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One female. 



This individual is fully typical of the present striking and beautiful 



species, although slightly smaller than the original measurements. 



The antennae are broadly white annulate on a fuscous ground, at 



a point about three millimeters from their bases. The coloration 



of the antennae is not mentioned in the original description. 

 Anaxipha variegata (Chopard). 



1912. C[yrtoxipha] variegata Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 407, 4 figs. [St. Laurent and Nouveau-Chantier, French Guiana.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



This specimen may prove to be distinct from true variegata, as it 

 shows certain color features not mentioned by Chopard, but, at pres- 

 ent, we prefer to consider these individuals variations or the color 

 features to have been omitted from the description by Chopard. 

 The antennae are solid blackish proximad, then follows a broad cream- 

 colored area, which contains two narrow broAvn annuli, distad of this 

 the color is pale brownish with regularly placed dark brown annuli. 

 The occiput is pale yellow, caudad broadly blackish brown, like the 

 face and between the eyes, in the middle of the yellow area is a trans- 

 verse bar of blackish brown. The median femora, like the cephalic 

 ones, have a distal pale area colored like the tibiae, and in addition a 

 median annulus of the same. 



55 Ann. Carneg. Mus., X, p. 404, (1916). 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Anaxipha incompta (Walker). 



1869. Eneopt era incompta Walker, Catal. Derm. Salt. Brit. Mus., I, p. 67. 

 [Tapayos[Tapajos], Brazil.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) One male. 



We are identifying this specimen with Walker's species provision- 

 ally, or at least until we can ascertain more about the type of the 

 species, as the description is woefully inadequate. 



Anaxipha tibialis (Saussure). 



1897. Cyrtoxipha tibialis Saussure, Biol. Cent. Amer., Orth., I, p. 236, pL 

 XI, fig. 40. [Teapa, Tabasco, Mexico.] 



Para. (C. F. Baker.) Two males, three females. 



These specimens show no differences from the description of 

 tibialis and we see no alternative but to record them as that species, 

 although comparison with Mexican material is not at present possible. 

 The two male specimens show differences which demonstrate the 

 presence in males of this species of a broad and a narrow type of teg- 

 mina, and consequently of the tympanum, also in both sexes of re- 

 cessive and intensive types of coloration. In the former of these 

 color types the dark lateral bar is quite narrow, distinctly dorsad on 

 the lateral lobes, and on the tegmina pencils but the immediate 

 vicinity of the mediastine vein; in the intensive type the bar is broad 

 and covers all of the lateral lobes except the ventro-cephalic portion, 

 which is yellow, and on the tegmina suffuses a broad belt costad of 

 the mediastine vein. 



As we here imderstand the species it is not far removed from imi- 

 tator (Saussure), from which it differs in the narrower head and pro- 

 notum, slightly different shape of the cephalic tibiae and more re- 

 stricted, less solidly infuscate dark areas on the pronotum and teg- 

 mina. 

 Anaxipha paraensis n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 60-62.) 



Apparently related to A. tolteca (Saussure), described from eastern 

 Mexico, but chffering in the broadly rounded lateral shoulders of the 

 pronotum, and in the shorter and narrower tegmina, which have the 

 speculum more longitudinal. Doubtless other features of difference 

 exist which will become apparent on actual comparison of the two 

 forms. 



Type: cf ; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5343.] 



Size relatively large, broad, tegmina well vaulted : surface of body 



well clothed with hairs, which are bristly on the head and pronotum. 



_Head trigonal in cephalic aspect, faintly deeper than broad: occiput 



moderately declivent to the inter-anteimal region, with numerous 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



bristles which are directed ventro-cephalad; inter-antennal pro- 

 tuberance equal to about one-half the least width of the inter-ocular 

 region: eyes very prominent when seen from the dorsum, their con- 

 vexity directed cephalo-laterad, when seen from the side their basal 

 outline is reniform-ovoid, the narrower portion ventrad: antennae 

 reaching at least to the apices of the wings, the proximal joint enlarged 

 but simple : palpi slender, the third and fifth joints subequal in length, 

 the third joint slightly arcuate; fourth joint about two-thirds as 

 long as the third joint; fifth joint trumpet-shaped, the distal margin 

 very faintly oblique-truncate. Pronotum transverse, strongly and 

 regularly narrowing cephalad, the width at the caudal margin about 

 one-third greater than the length of the pronotum, the dorsum broadly 

 and regularly rounding into the lateral lobes; surface of the dorsum 

 and lateral lobes with scattered curved bristles, the margins, but 

 particularly the cephalic, with a regularly placed series of smaller 

 bristles; cephalic margin of the disk faintly arcuate, the caudal mar- 

 gin more distinctly but weakly arcuate; medio-longitudinal impres- 

 sion distinctly but not deeply indicated on the greater portion of the 

 disk, transverse impression distinct, median, arcuate: lateral lobes 

 distinctly longer than deep, subrectangular; cephalic margin oblique, 

 the ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse, ventral and caudal margins 

 each straight, the ventro-caudal angle narrowly rounded rectangu- 

 late, the lobes well inbent ventro-caudad. Tegmina broad, distinctly 

 broader than the body, in length slightly surpassing the apex of the 

 body: lateral field broad, subequal in depth; costal margin in 

 greater portion straight, very faint intimation of an emargination 

 mesad, arcuate distad; mediastine vein arcuate proximad and dis- 

 tad, straight for the greater portion of its length, little distant from 

 and subparallel to the humeral vein in the proximal half, the area 

 between these veins crossed by numerous straight transverse nervures ; 

 costal section of the marginal field with three incomplete veins, the 

 third of which is a ramus of the mediastine vein: humeral and dis- 

 coidal veins closely placed, subparallel; median vein parallel to the 

 other veins of the humeral trunk, sUghtly weaker; stridulating vein 

 regularly arcuate; ulnar vein regularly sigmoid; axillary veins three 

 in number of which the third is strumose ; post-axillary veins three in 

 number; speculum roughly diamond-shaped, but slightly longer 

 than broad, the sutural angle the only one of the four which is dis- 

 tinctly rounded, the figure within the speculum complete, ovoid- 

 subcordiform, its area coriaceo-rugulose ; apex of the dorsal field of 

 the tegmina slightly acute-angulate. Wings strongly caudate, pro- 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



jecting distad of the tegmina a distance equal to the length of the 

 tegmina, the exposed portion of the wings faintly fusiform when seen 

 from the side, the dorsal and ventral margins of the same rather 

 thickly hirsute. Styles elongate, slender, tapering, falling but slightly 

 short of the tips of the closed wings: subgenital plate elongate,, 

 scoop-shaped, narrowing distad, the distal margin narrowly bisar- 

 cuate. Limbs moderately slender, elongate. Cephalic femora 

 moderately tapering; cephalic tibiae subequal in length to the femora, 

 the proximal five-eighths moderately bullate, the distal three-eighths 

 relatively slender, tympana perforating both faces of the tibiae, that 

 of the cephalic face relatively large, elongate acute-elliptical, of the 

 caudal face but little more than half that size and ovoid in form. 

 Median tibiae slightly surpassing the femora in length, but faintly 

 larger in proximal half than in distal half. Caudal femora subequal 

 to the tegmina in length, moderately inflated proximad, tapering 

 thence distad, genicular region very small: caudal tibiae in length 

 subequal to the femora, three pairs of marginal spurs present, those 

 of the external margin more proximal in position than those of the 

 internal, the spurs nearly straight with the immediate apex briefly 

 hooked ; disto-external spurs small, the middle one not more than one- 

 fifth as long as the metatarsus, the dorsal one not more than one-half 

 as long as the middle one, the ventral one about two-thirds as long 

 as the middle one ; disto-internal spurs two in number, the dorsal one 

 heavy, tapering, very faintly hooked at the apex, in length slightly 

 more than two-thirds as long as the metatarsus, the ventral spur 

 about three-fifths as long as the dorsal one, more slender: caudal 

 metatarsi slightly less than a fourth as long as the caudal tibiae, each 

 dorsal margin distad with a single spine, external apical spur about 

 two-thirds as long as the internal one. 



General color buckthorn brown, the tegmina dresden bro\vn, the 

 head and thoracic bristles fuscous. The lower face with a weak pat- 

 tern of liver brown, the interantennal protuberance dorsad with a 

 pair of short, narrow lines of blackish; eyes tawny-olive; antennae 

 chamois, largely washed on all but the ventral surface with bister. 

 Pronotum, as well as the dorsal surface of the head, with a weak 

 pattern of Vandyke brown. Tegmina with the venation lined to a 

 variable degree with bister, those distad on the lateral field with this 

 most evident. Wings with the exposed portion heavily washed with 

 fuscous, the cross veins of the paler general color. Cephalic and 

 median tibiae weakly marked with fuscous, the tarsi of the same limbs 

 with the same color. Caudal femora with the genicular extremity,- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



aside from the arches, marked with fuscous, the dorsal surface of the 

 caudal tibiae and the marginal spurs Aveakly washed with the same 

 shade. 



Length of body, 7 mm.; length of pronotum, 1.4 mm.; greatest 

 width of pronotum (caudad) 2 mm.; length of tegmen, 6 mm.; great- 

 est width of dorsum of tegmen, 2.5 mm.; length of wings distad of 

 tegmen, 4.6 mm.; length of caudal femur, 5.8. 



The type of this species is unique. 

 Anaxipha fistulator n. sp. (PI. II, figs. 63-66.) 



Allied to A. championi (Saussure), from Panama, but differing in 

 the more elongate palpi, the distal joint of which is markedly elongate 

 and obliquely truncate distad, in the more sharplj^ inflated and then 

 narrowed cephalic tibise, the differently shaped lateral lobes of the 

 pronotum and in the more slender caudal femora. When compared 

 with A. strmnenticia, described below, fistulator is seen to be quite 

 close, but the latter differs in its distinctly larger size, somewhat dif- 

 ferently shaped palpi and cephalic tibiae and has the pronotum more 

 strongly transverse. 



Type: cf ; Igarape-assu, State of Para, Brazil. (H. S. Parish.) 

 [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., T^De no. 5341.] 



Size quite large (for the genus) : form subdepressed, the tegmina 

 broader than the body, wings long caudate: surface of the body 

 rather thickly covered with hairs, many of those of the head and 

 pronotum chaetiform. Head broad sub-cordiform in outline when 

 seen from the cephalic aspect, the greatest width across the eyes but 

 faintly less than the length, the buccal region quite narrow, the 

 occipital outline arcuate transversely; in lateral aspect the dorsum 

 of the head is seen to be strongly, but uniformly declivent to the inter- 

 antennal protulDerance, which broadly rounds caudad to the clypeal 

 suture: eyes moderately exserted and well rounded when seen from 

 the dorsum, in basal outline short and broad ovate: antennae incom- 

 plete, the proximal joint broad: palpi slender, elongate; third joint 

 gently arcuate, faintly shorter than the fifth joint; fourth joint about 

 three-fifths as long as the fifth joint, the latter trumpet-shaped, the 

 distal margin obliquely truncate. Pronotum weakly sellate, strongly 

 narrowing cephalad, the pronotum distinctly transverse, the greatest 

 caudal width more than twice that of the cephalic margin of the disk 

 and equal to one and one-half times the length of the pronotal disk, 

 the dorsum broadly rounding into the lateral lobes: cephalic margin 

 of the disk subtruncate, rounding into that of the lateral lobes; caudal 

 margin of the disk truncate; medio-longituchnal sulcus indicated 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Maj', 



over the greater portion of the length of the disk, not reaching either 

 margin, more distinctly indicated cephalad: lateral lobes subquad- 

 rate, ventral margin truncate, cephalic margin oblique, sub-truncate, 

 ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse, caudal margin straight, ven- 

 tro-caudal angle broadly rounded rectangulate; impression of lateral 

 lobes moderately inchcated, oblique, appreciably in bent ventro-cau- 

 dad. Tegmina relatively broad, the greatest width of the disk con- 

 tained about two and one-half times in the length of the same, when 

 in repose the greatest width across the dorsal fields of the tegmina is 

 at three-fifths the length of the tegmina, the margin of the extremity 

 of the field weakly acute-angulate : lateral field moderately broad, 

 subequal in width ; mediastine vein moderately but regularly diverg- 

 ing from the humeral vein in proximal half, thence subparallel or 

 weakly converging distad; two free veins present cephalad of the 

 proximal half of the mediastine vein: humeral vein prominent and 

 straight for the greater portion of its length, sharply decurved at its 

 apex; discoidal vein in general paralleling the humeral vein, obtuse- 

 angulate at the distal four-fifths; stridulating vein strongly but not 

 regularly arcuate; axillary veins two in number, post-axillary veins 

 three in number; ulnar vein stronglj^ arcuate in proximal three- 

 fourths; speculum oblique sub-rectangulate, the proximal angle and 

 the distal angle rectangulate, the costal angle weakly obtuse, the 

 sutural angle rounded, the greatest (transverse) Avidth of the specu- 

 lum subequal to the length, figure of the speculum complete, follow- 

 ing the costal outline less distinctly than the others. Wings with the 

 caudate section but slightly shorter than the tegmina, well haired 

 along the dorsal and ventral margins. Subgenital plate relatively 

 small, narrowing distad, the distal margin rather sharply and deeply 

 bisarcuate: styles slightly surpassing the apices of the caudal femora, 

 tapering, robust proximad. Cephalic femora moderately robust, 

 tapering, in length subequal to the head and pronotum combined; 

 cephalic tibise subequal to the femora in length, the proximal five- 

 eighths distinctly inflated, the distal section relatively slender, tym- 

 panum of the cephalic face large, elongate subelliptical, of the caudal 

 face distinctly smaller, sub-elliptical. Median limbs missing. Caudal 

 femora faintly longer than the tegmina, moderately robust proximad, 

 regularly tapering, very slender distad ; caudal tibise subequal to the 

 femora in length, slender, the marginal spurs of the same number 

 and disposition as in the other new species of the genus here de- 

 scribed; disto-external spurs small, the dorsal one very small, hardly 

 more than a third the length of the median one, the ventral spur 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



faintly more than half the length of the median one ; disto-internal 

 spurs two in number, the dorsal one five-eighths of the length of the 

 metatarsus, the ventral one two-thirds the length of the dorsal one: 

 caudal metatarsi contained about four and one-half times in the length 

 of the til)ise, the dorsal surface armed distad with a pair of spines, 

 distal spur of the external side two-thirds as long as the internal one. 



General color straw yellow, the tegmina more clear yellow ocher, 

 the head with an indefinite tawny wash, the caudate port en of the 

 wings, when closed, washed with weak buckthorn bro^\^l. Eyes 

 cinnamon brown. 



Length of body, 7.9 mm.; length of pronotum, 1.2; greatest caudal 

 width of pronotum, 1.9; length of tegmen, 6; greatest width of dor- 

 sum of tegmen, 2.5; length of exposed caudate section of wing, 5; 

 length of caudal femur, 6. 



The type of this species is unique. 

 Anaxipha stramenticia n. sp. (PL II, figs. 67-70.) 



This species is apparently more closely related to granadensis 

 (Rehn), from Nicaragua, championi (Saussure), from Panama, and 

 fistulator, described above, than to the other species known to us. 

 From granadensis it differs chiefly in the different profile of the head, 

 this having the occiput and fastigium very much less deplanate de- 

 clivent, in the distal palpal joint being very strongly oblique truncate 

 distad, in the more quadrate lateral lobes of the pronotum, in the 

 dorso-internal spur of the caudal tibiae being half as long as the meta- 

 tarsus, and the caudal metatarsal internal spur distinctly surpassing 

 the second tarsal joint, in the sparser tegminal venation of the female 

 (the only sex known oi granadensis) and in the exact shape of the apex 

 of the ovipositor. From championi the new form differs chiefly in 

 the obliquely truncate distal margin of the distal palpal joint and the 

 more decidedly slender distal portion of the cephalic femora, while 

 from fistulator it is distinguished chiefly by its smaller size, more 

 sharply narrowed cephalic tibiae, less strongly transverse pronotum 

 and less attenuate caudal femora. 



Type: &; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5345.] 



Size medium (for the genus) : form relatively elongate, the wings 

 caudate: body and limbs thickly clothed with short hairs, on the 

 head and pronotum many are more elongate and chsetiform. Head 

 broad cordiform when seen from the cephalic aspect, the greatest 

 width across the eyes not exceeded by the depth of the head, the occi- 

 pital line moderately arcuate when seen from the front; in lateral 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



aspect the dorsal line of the head is moderately declivent from the 

 occiput to the inter-antennal protuberance, which broadly rounds 

 over the ventral section of the facial line to the clypeal sulcus; width 

 of inter-antennal protuberance not quite equal to one-half the least 

 width between the eyes : eyes when seen from the dorsum quite promi- 

 nent, full, in basal outline broad ovoid, flattened caudad: palpi 

 slender, elongate; third joint in length subequal to the fifth joint, 

 moderately arcuate; fourth joint about three-fifths of the length of 

 the third joint; fifth joint trumpet-shaped, flaring quite markedly, 

 the distal margin rather strongly oblique truncate: antennae incom- 

 plete, the proximal joint broad, distinctly depressed. Pronotum 

 rather small, sub-selliform, weakly enlarging caudad, the dorsum 

 rather broadly rounding into the lateral lobes ; cephalic margin of the 

 disk sinuato-truncate, caudal margin arcuato-truncate, medio-longi- 

 tudinal sulcus distinctly indicated mesad and very briefly cephalad, 

 transverse impression weakly indicated, bisarcuate: lateral lobes 

 subquadrate in form, the margins straight, the angles well rounded; 

 ventro-caudal section moderately but not strongly in-bent. Tegmina 

 but little broader than the body, in length but faintly surpassing the 

 apex of the abdomen: lateral field broad, subequal; mediastine vein 

 regularly diverging from the humeral vein, the area between with 

 weakly indicated transverse nervures, which divide the area into 

 subquadrate areolets; accessory veins of the lateral field three in 

 number, situated costad of the mediastine vein, one simulating and 

 subparalleling the mediastine vein, the other two (which are costad) 

 short and sinuate: humeral and discoidal veins straight in general, 

 subparallel: dorsal field with the greatest width at five-eighths the 

 length from the base, distal margin of the discoidal field rounded ob- 

 tuse-angulate; stridulating vein bent arcuate; axillary veins two in 

 number (not counting the thickened marginal node); postaxillary 

 veins three in number; ulnar vein moderately sigmoid, more so proxi- 

 mad than distad; speculum oblique subrectangulate, the greatest 

 width of the same (between angles) equal to about three-fourths of 

 the length, proximal angle weakly acute, distal angle rectangulate, 

 costal angle rounded obtuse, sutural angle rather broadly rounded, 

 figure of the speculum complete, unsjanmetrical elongate subellipti- 

 cal. Wings with the caudate portion projecting distad of the teg- 

 mina a distance equal to three-fourths of the length of the tegmina. 

 Subgenital plate short, slightly transverse, scoop-shaped, the lateral 

 margins converging distad, the distal extremity with a relatively 

 deep emargination, which is made weakly bisarcuate by a median 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



triangular projection: styles nearly reaching the tips of the caudate 

 wings. Cephalic femora subequal to the length of the head and pro- 

 notum combined, straight, tapering; cephalic tibiae faintly shorter 

 than the femora, strongly inflated in the proximal half, subequal 

 and moderately slender distad, tympanum of the cephalic face large, 

 elongate elliptical, of the caudal face smaller, subelliptical. Caudal 

 femora faintly shorter than the tegmina, moderately robust proximad, 

 tapering distad: caudal tibise subequal to the femora in length, the 

 marginal spines placed as in the other species here described, disto- 

 external spurs very small, the dorsal one minute, disto-internal spurs 

 two in number, the dorsal one half as long as the metatarsus, the ven- 

 tral one two-thirds as long as the dorsal one : caudal metatarsi with 

 its length contained about three and one-half times in the length of 

 the caudal tibiae, the dorsal margins each armed distad with a single 

 tooth, distal spur of the internal face reaching to about the middle of 

 the third tarsal joint, the external spur hardly surpassing the middle 

 of the second joint. 

 ' Allotype : 9 ; same date as the type. 



Differing from the description of the type in the following features. 

 Pronotum relatively heavier than in the male, broader in proportion 

 to the width of the head, the caudal margin of the disk weakly pro- 

 duced mesad, rounded, very faintly sinuate laterad of the median 

 production: lateral lobes with the cephalic margin more oblique 

 truncate, the ventro-cephalic angle rounded obtuse. Tegmina nar- 

 row, elongate, slightly surpassing the apex of the abdomen (exclusive 

 of the ovipositor), when in repose the lateral margins of the tegmina 

 are subparallel, narrowing at the distal extremity to the narrowly 

 rounded apex: lateral field with the veins more regularly disposed 

 than in the male, straighter, and more distinctly diverging: dorsal 

 field with the anal and axillary (two) veins moderately sinuate, trans- 

 verse nervures numerous and irregularly distributed. Ovipositor in 

 length subequal to that of the head and pronotum combined, mod- 

 erately falcate, of medium depth, distal extremity of the dorsal mar- 

 gin and the vicinity of the valvular suture in the distal third with fine 

 strumose denticulations, apex acute. 



General color antimony yellow, becoming warm buff on the tegmina, 

 the abdomen with a tendency toward ochraceous-buff, ovipositor 

 tipped with mars brown, the eyes varying from the general color to 

 dresden brown. 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Measurements {in 7niUimeters) . 



'Length Length Greatest Length Length of Length of Length 



of of width of of wings distad of caudal of 



body. pronotum. pronotura. tegmen. closed tegmina, femur, ovipositor. 



d'Jype 6.2 1.1 1.9 5.2 4.4 5.5 



9, allotype 6 1.3 1.8 5 4 5.5 2.3 



In addition to the type and allotype we have before us a paratypic 

 pair, bearing the same data as the type. These specimens show no 

 differences worthy of remark. 



Eneopterinae. 

 Aphonomorphus major Chopard. 



1912. A[phonomorphus] major Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 429, 3 %.«. [St. Laurent du Maroni, French Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. One female. 



This specimen is somewhat damaged and the form of the distal 

 palpal joint is not satisfactorily ascertainable, but in all other import- 

 ant ambisexual features our specimen agrees with the description of 

 major, which was based on the male. The dorso-internal margin of 

 the caudal tibiae has one more spine (six instead of five) than Chopard 

 gives, but this is probably a purely individual feature. 

 Aphonomorphus griseus Chopard. 



1912. A [phonomorphus] griseus Chopard, Ann. Soc. Entom. France, LXXXI, 

 p. 430, 2 figs. [La Forestiere, French Guiana.] 



Igarape-assu. January 17, 1912. One male. 



We are assigning this specimen here although it shows at least one 

 point of difference from Chopard's description. This is in the pres- 

 ence of but two, instead of three, spines on the dorso-external margin 

 of the caudal metatarsi. Our specimen has the body length slightly 

 greater than Chopard's measurement, and the distal palpal joint 

 seems rather elongate to answer the original ''aussi long que large." 

 However,- the features of agreement are so pronounced and the 

 features of difference those of possible individual variation, or of 

 exact interpretation of the proportions of a relatively difficult shape 

 to describe, that we consider our present course of reference best. 



Aphonomorphus surdus n. sp. (PI. II, fig?. 71-74.) 



Apparently allied to A. variegatiis and griseus Chopard, from Cay- 

 enne, and A. conspersus Bruner, from Bolivia. From variegatus it 

 differs chiefly in the different spination of the caudal tibiae, in the 

 different coloration, in the more elongate limbs, in the smaller ocelli, 

 in the greater general size, in the deeply sulcate subgenital plate of 

 the male, and in the fewer mediastine rami of the tegmina. From 

 griseus it differs in the greater general size, in the smaller ocelli, in the 

 lateral lobes of the pronotum being longer and shallower in propor- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



tion, in the pronotum being less narrowed cephalad, in the more 

 elongate limbs, in the deeply sulcate subgenital plate of the male and 

 in the different coloration. From conspersus the new form differs 

 in the smaller, non-attingent ocelli, the more fusiform cephalic tibiae, 

 the generally less robust limbs, the more elongate caudal metatarsal 

 spurs, and the less strongly divided subgenital plate of the male and 

 in certain features of the coloration. Comparison can hardly be 

 made with lividus (Burmeister), as its diagnosis is so brief and in- 

 definite that the recognition of the species without the re-examina- 

 tion of the type would be purely guess-work. 



Type: cf ; Para, State of Para, Brazil. (C. F. Baker.) [Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., Type no. 5363]. 



Size medium: form elongate, quite slender, subcompressed surface 

 of body and limbs rather thickly pilose, this generally adpressed; of 

 tegmina microscopically adpressed pilose. Head no wider than the 

 cephalic section of the pronotum, depth of the head subequal to 

 the width across the eyes: occiput gently declivent cephalad, the 

 fastigium plane and non-excavate; when seen in lateral outline the 

 interantennal angle is rounded obtuse-angulate : ocelli of medium 

 size, placed in an arcuate line, the median one rather small, elliptical, 

 transverse, separated from the lateral ocelli by faintly more than 

 the length of the median ocellus, fossetted; lateral ocelli large, sub- 

 circular, flattened, placed longitudinal, separated from the eyes by 

 less than their own diameter: rostrum with the interantennal width 

 faintly greater than the width of the proximal antennal segment, 

 briefly fossulate dorsad: eyes moderately prominent, in basal out- 

 line broad subpyriform : palpi moderately elongate; third joint long; 

 the fourth somewhat shorter, narrow at its base; fifth joint as long 

 as the fourth joint, produced securiform, the distal width slightly 

 less than the length of the joint, flexor margin nearly straight with 

 a distal rounding to the arcuato-truncate distal margin, extensor 

 margin gently concave: antennae elongate; proximal joint moderately 

 depressed, narrowed proximad. Pronotum transverse, the greatest 

 median length contained one and one-half times in the greatest 

 caudal width of the same; in transverse section arcuate, rather 

 broadly rounding into the lateral lobes: cephalic margin subtruncate; 

 caudal margin strongly bisinuate, decidedly produced arcuate mesad; 

 lateral borders of disk moderately diverging caudad; cephalic and 

 caudal margins cingulate, the former with this moderately, the 

 latter extremely, broad; pyriform impressions of the disk large, 

 broad; lateral lobes of the pronotum one and one-half times as 




232 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



long as deep, somewhat impressed ventrad; ventro-cephalic angle 

 broadly rounded, ventral margin arcuate, ventro-caudal angle 

 rounded obtuse and broadly lamellato-cingulate, the other margins 

 rather narrowly cingulate. Tegmina surpassing the tips of the 

 caudal femora by about the length of the pronotum; when seen from 

 the dorsum the lateral borders of the dorsal fields of the tegmina 

 regularly converge distad: lateral field of uniform depth in the proximal 

 third, thence regularly narrowing distad; mediastine vein with five 

 rami; lateral field with five proximal free veins; hyaline intercalated 

 field very elongate, reaching to the proximal third of the lateral 

 field: dorsal field rather narrow, five times as long as greatest 

 breadth, regularly narrowing in distal half; between the median 

 and the short anal vein there is but a brief section of the ulnar vein 

 which is distinctly traceable, all the other longitudinal nervures 

 irregular and sinuate, the cross-veins irregularly distributed and 

 oblique sectors not clearly defined; anal and the two axillary veins 

 oblique, straight, regularly disposed, connected by numerous cross- 

 veins. Wings surpassing the tegmina by slightly more than the 

 length of the pronotum. Cerci very slender, elongate, reaching 

 almost to the tips of the wings, clothed with numerous, rather 

 adpressed, short hairs and sparse, erect, long hairs, decurved: sub- 

 genital plate elongate scaphiform, subcompressed, with a deep 

 medio-longitudinal sulcus on the ventral surface; distal margin 

 U-emarginate. Limbs moderately slender, third joint of tarsi 

 slender. Cephalic tibiae with an elongate elliptical foramen on the 

 cephalic face, caudal face imperforate. Caudal femora moderately 

 slender, about two-thirds as long as the tegmina: caudal tibiae very 

 faintly shorter than the caudal femora; dorsal surface armed distad 

 as follows: on external margin with five major spines, on internal 

 margin with six, those of the internal slightly longer than those 

 of the external; the intercalated spinulations placed, on external 

 margin^ — 3 (or 4), 4, 2, 1, on internal margin — 1, 2 (or 3), 2, 1, 0; 

 dorso-internal distal spur over twice as long as the ventral, almost 

 as long as the metatarsus; external distal spurs short : caudal metatarsi 

 armed on the dorso-external margin with a single (distal) spinula- 

 tion, on the dorso-internal margin with three spinulations, metatarsal 

 spurs very long, the internal slightly longer than the external, 

 faintly arcuate when seen from the side, arcuate proximad 

 when seen from the dorsum. 



Allotype: 9 ; same data as type. [Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.] 

 Differing from the description of the male (type) in the following 




1918.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



features. Size larger: form and vestiture similar. Head slightly 

 deeper than width across the eyes: ocelli similar to those of the male 

 but slightly smaller. Pronotum with cephalic margin distinctly 

 arcuato-emarginate ; lateral borders of disk less distinctly diverging 

 caudad than in the male. Tegmina surpassing the tips of the caudal 

 femora: mediastine vein with eight rami; lateral field with five 

 free veins proximad: dorsal field with its width contained slightly 

 more than five times in the tegminal length. Cerci very elongate, 

 appreciably surpassing tlie tips of the wings: subgenital plate of 

 the type usual in the female sex of the genus, moderately compressed : 

 ovipositor in length surpassing that of the caudal femora by not 

 more than one-half the dorsal length of the pronotum, slender, 

 compressed; moderately decurved in proximal half, thence straight; 

 apical valves acute lanceolate, ventro-external surface of valves 

 shagreenous, the ventral surface crassly crenate-dentate, the 

 productions unequal and irregular in size, these arranged in several 

 series. Caudal tibise with the intercalated spinulations numbering 

 3- (or 5), 3, 2, 1 (or 2) on the external margin; 2, 3 (or 4), 1, 1, 

 on the internal margin. 



General coloration of the male buckthorn brown, of the female 

 between cinnamon-brown and dresden brown, in both sexes with 

 an overlying coloration of points of mummy brown and blackish 

 fuscous; pubescence pale golden. Head with the ocelli bordered 

 dorsad by a transverse, poorly defined band of fuscous; ocelli naples 

 yellow; eyes hazel, obliquely and rather irregularly barred dorsad 

 with three lines of fuscous; antennae multiannulate with mummy 

 brown on an ochraceous-buff ground, the contrast decided in the 

 male, hardly apparent in the female. Pronotum with the cephalic 

 and caudal margins beaded with fuscous except in the male, where 

 the caudal margin is unmarked dorsad. Tegmina with the median 

 vein strongly, closely and quite regularly beaded with blackish 

 fuscous, except in proximal fifth, spot at base of humeral trunk 

 blackish fuscous; dorsal surface with five oblique clouds of fuscous 

 in the female, the cross-veins largely lined with fuscous, in the male 

 no clouds are indicated and but a few cross- veins are pencilled; 

 lateral field of female with cross- veins pencilled with fuscous; 

 longitudinal veins all lined with dull ochraceous-tawny; intercalated 

 field washed with mummy brown in the male, nearly clear hyaline 

 in the female. Limbs thickly and closely speckled with fuscous in 

 the female, in the male this hardly indicated on the caudal limbs, 

 and much less distinctly so on the others than in the female; caudal. 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



femora with the ventral margin broadly beaded with fuscous distad; 

 caudal tibiae with the spines and spurs annulate mesad with fuscous. 

 Ovipositor with the tips fuscous. 



cf (type). Length of body, 19.5 mm.; length of pronotum, 3; 

 greatest (caudal) width of pronotum, 4.4; length of tegmen, 19; 

 greatest width of dorsal field of tegmen, 3.9; length of caudal 

 femur, 12.8. 



9 (allotype). Length of body, 18 mm.; length of pronotum, 

 3.6; greatest (caudal) width of pronotum, 5; length of tegmen, 22.2; 

 greatest width of dorsal field of tegmen, 4.4; length of caudal femur, 

 15; length of ovipositor, 16. 



The type and allotype are the only individuals of the species 

 seen by us. It is evident that the male is in a recessive type of 

 coloration, the female in an intensive one. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATES I AND II. 

 Plate I. 



Fig. 1. — Ischnoptera crispuln new species. Wing of male (type). (X6.) 



Fig. 2. — Ischnoptera crispula new species. Pronotum of male (type). Dorsal 



view. (X6.) 

 Fig. 3. — Ischnoptera crispula new .species. Genital orifice of male (type). Caudal 



elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 4. — Ischnoptera crispula new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. .5. — Ischnoptera imparata new species. Wing of male (type). (X8.) 

 Fig. 6. — Ischnoptera im par ata new species. Pronotum of male (type). Dorsal 



view. (X6.) 

 Fig. 7. — Ischnoptera imparata new species. Genital orifice of male (type). Cau- 

 dal elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 8. — Ischnoptera imparata new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 9. — Ischnoptera clavator new species. Wing of male (type). (X4.) 

 Fig. 10. — Ischnoptera clavator new species. Pronotum of male (type). Dorsal 



view. (X6.) 

 Fig. IL — Ischnoptera clavator new species. Genital orifice of male (type) . Caudal 



elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 12. — Ischnoptera clavator new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 13. — Ischnoptera castanea Saussure. Genital orifice of male. Igarape-assii, 



Brazil. Caudal elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 14. — Ischnoptera castanea Saussure. Subgenital plate of male. Igarape- 



assu, Brazil. Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 15. — Carihlatta igarapensis new species. Pronotum of male (type). Dorsal 



view. (X6.) 

 Fig. 16. — Cariblatta igarapensis new species. Genital orifice of male (type). 



Caudal elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 17. — Cariblatta igarapensis new species. Wing of male (type). (X5.) 

 Fig. 18. — Cariblatta igarapensis new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 19. — Chorisoneura parishi new species. Pronotum of male (type). Dorsal 



view. (X7.) 

 Fig. 20. — Chorisoneura parishi new .species. Tegmen and wing of male (type). 



(X7.) 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



Fig. 21. ^Chorisoneiira parishi new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 22. — M elestora minuiissima nevi'speciea. Dorsal view of male (type). (X7.) 

 Fig. 23. — Melestora minutissima new species. Apex of abdomen of male (tjqje). 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 24. — Tetralcenia surinama (Linn.). Median femur of male. Para, Brazil. 



(Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 25. — Tetratoenia phila new species. Median femur of male (type). (Greatly 



enlarged.) 

 Fig. 26. — Tetratcenia surinama (Linn.). Caudal femur of male. Para, Brazil. 



(X3.) 

 Fig. 27. — Tetratcenia phila new species. Caudal femur of male (tj^De). (X3.) 

 Fig. 28. — Chloropseiistes leucotylus new genus and species. Lateral view of male 



(type). (X2i.) 

 Fig. 29. — Chlorop.^e listen leucotylus new genus and species. Pronotum of male 



(type). Dorsal view. (X7.) 

 Fig. 30. — Chloropseiistes leucotylus new genus and species. Apex of abdomen of 



male (type). Lateral elevation. (X7.) 

 Fig. 3L — Chloropseustes leucotylus new genus and species. Apex of abdomen of 



female (allotype). Lateral elevation. (X7.) 

 Fig. 32. — Bucephalacris falcifer new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type). 



Dorsal view. (X7.) 

 Fig. 33. — Bucephalacris falcifer new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type). 



Lateral elevation. (X7.) 

 Fig. 34. — Sitalces jugatus new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type). Lat- 

 eral elevation. (X6.) 

 Fig. 35. — Sitalces jugatus new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type) . Dorsal 



view.' (X6.) 



Plate II. 



Fig. 36. — Ceraia capra new species. Meso- and metasternal lobes of female 



(tj-pe). (X3.) 

 Fig. 37. — Ceraia capra new species. Ovipositor and subgenital plate of female' 



(type). (X2.) 

 Fig. 38. — Scaphura sphex new species. Lateral view of tegmen of male (type). 



(Xli) 

 Fig. 39. — Scaphura sphex new species. Head of male (type). Dorsal outline. 



(X5i.) 

 Fig. 40. — Scaphura sphex new species. Pronotum of male (type). Lateral ele- 

 vation. (X3.) 

 Fig. 41. — Phlugis chelifera new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type).^^ 



Dorsal view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 42. — Phlugis chelifera new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type).^^ 



Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 43. — Phlugis chelifera new species. Apex of abdomen of male (tj^e).*^ 



Lateral elevation. (Greath' enlarged.) 

 Fig. 44. — Paralobaspis personata new species. Pronotum of female (type). 



Lateral elevation. (X3.) 

 Fig. 45. — Paralobaspis personata new species. Ovipositor of female (type) 



(X4.) 

 Fig. 46. — Gryllacris harpistylata new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type) 



Dorsal view. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 47. — Gryllacris harpistylata new species. Apex of abdomen of male (type). 



Lateral elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 

 Fig. 48. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Tegmen of male (type). 



Dorsal field. (X8.) 

 Fig. 49. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Tegmen of male (type). 



Lateral field. (X8.) 



*^Cerci and supra-anal plate drawn from paratype as they are flexed inward in 

 type. 



17 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [May, 



Fig. 50. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Head and pronotum of 

 male (type). Dorsal view. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 51. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Palpus of male (type). 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 52. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Caudal tarsus and ex- 

 tremity of tibia of male. Internal face. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 53. — Aphemogryllus gracilis new genus and species. Ovipositor of female 

 (allotype). (Xll.) 



Fig. 54. — Anaxipha esau new species. Caudal tarsus and extremity of tibia of 

 female (type). External face. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 55. — Anaxipha esau new species. Cephalic tibia of female (type). Cephalic 

 (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 56. — Anaxipha simulacrum new species. Dorsal field of tegmen of male 

 (allotype). (X7.) 



Fig. 57. — Anaxipha simulacrum new species. Head and pronotum of female 

 (type). Lateral elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 58. — Anaxipha simulacrum new species. Cephalic tibia of female (tj^^e). 

 Cephalic (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 59. — Anaxipha simulacrum new species. Ovipositor of female (type). 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 60. — Anaxipha paroensis new species. Dorsal field of tegmen of male (type). 

 (X7.) 



Fig. 61. — Anaxipha parcensis new species. Palpus of male (type). (Greatly en- 

 larged.) 



Fig. 62. — Anaxipha paroensis new species. Cephalic tibia of male (type). Ceph- 

 alic (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 63. — Anaxipha fistulator new species. Dorsal field of tegmen of male (type). 

 (X7.) 



Fig. 64. — Anaxipha fistulator new species. Pronotum of male (type). Lateral 

 elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 65. — Anaxipha fistulator new species. Palpus of male (type). (Greatly en- 

 larged.) 



Fig. 66. — Anaxipha fistulator new species. Cephalic tibia of male (tj^e). Ceph- 

 alic (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 



IFig. 67. — Anaxipha stramenticia new species. Dorsal field of tegmen of male 

 (type). (X7.) 



Tig. 68. — Anaxipha stramenticia new species. Head and pronotum of male 

 (type). Lateral elevation. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 69. — Anaxipha stramenticia new species. Ovipositor of female (allot>'pe). 

 (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 70. — Anaxipha stramenticia new species. Cephalic tibia of male (type). 

 Cephalic (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 71.— Aphonomorphus surdus new species. Dorsal field of tegmen of male 



mn (type). {X2h.) 



Fig. 72. — Aphonomorphus surdus new species. Head of male (type). Cephalic 

 view. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 73. — Aphonomorphus surdus new species. Subgenital plate of male (type). 

 Ventral view. (Greatly enlarged.) 



Fig. 74. — Aphonomorphus surdus new species. Cephalic tibia of male (type). 

 Cephalic (left) and caudal (right) faces. (Greatly enlarged.) 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



237 



TWO NEW SHELLS FROM HAYTI. 



BY E. G. VANATTA. 

 Odontosagda abbotti n. sp. Figs. 1, 2. 



Shell small, depressed, translucent white. Apex large, obtuse, 

 spire low-conic, sutures distinct, whorls 4f , slowly increasing, some- 

 what contabulate, body whorl 

 convex, subangular above the 

 periphery, contracted below. 

 Surface smooth, indistinct; ir- 

 regular, the longitudinal strise, 

 2 '^?/7^:,,V2\W' seen under a lens, without 

 spiral sculpture. Umbilicus 

 wide, deep, well-like, its width contained about 4.5 times in the diam- 

 eter of the shell. Aperture lunate, peristome simple, acute, convexly 

 arched above, depressed arcuate below. Columella slightly refiexed, 

 parietal callus very thin. Palatal wall with traces of a callus at the 

 periphery and base, near the peristome. At a distance of about 

 one-fourth of a whorl within the aperture, two short, high, white 

 teeth or lamella3 may be seen. These and a third tooth are visible 

 through the translucent base. One very oblique transverse tooth is 

 situated near the periphery, another longer one is plac'ed spirally on 

 the base, and traces of the third very short one may be indistinctly 

 seen through the shell, on the columellar wall, close to the suture, 

 within the umbilicus. 



Alt., 1.22; diam., 2.1; aperture alt., .75; diam., .83 mm. 

 The types are in the collection of The Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, tray No. 118,240, from The General's Cave, one 

 mile west of Jeremie, Hayti. Found in debris collected by Dr. W. L. 

 Abbott at the base of a cliff about 300 yards from the seashore. 



This species cUffers from 0. hilli Pfr., of Cuba, which it resembles 

 most in shape, by being smaller, the palatal lamellse are shorter. The 

 apex and umbilicus are also smaller. It also differs from 0. blandi 

 Weinl., of Hayti by having a more depressed spire, fewer whorls- 

 It is also smaller, the palatal lamina near the periphery is not lunate 

 the basal lamina is shorter and the umbilicus is larger. 




238 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[May, 



Obeliscus abbotti n. sp. Fig. 3. 



Shell elongate, subcylindrical, whorls 6, imperforate. Apex obtuse, 

 very wide, large, suture impressed and crenulate, surface nearly 

 smooth, under the lens irregularly longitudinally sub- 

 striate. Aperture high, narrow, oval, outer lip, partially 

 broken, thin, evenly arcuate, not very convex, base nar- 

 row, columella rather thick with an indistinct indication 

 of a truncation at the base, parietal callus comparatively 

 thick. 



Alt., 5.56; diam., 1.5; aperture alt., 1.5; cliam., .93 mm. 



The types are in the Academy's collection, tray No. 

 118,244, from The General's Cave, west of Jeremie, Hayti. 

 Found with the above species in debris collected by Dr, 

 W. L. Abbott, in whose honor these two species are 

 named. 



Obeliscus ahhotti differs from 0. swiftiana Pfr. by being smaller, 

 more cylindrical; the apex is more obtuse and the suture is crenulate. 




1918,j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



BIRDS OF THE PANAMA CANAL ZONE, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO A COL- 

 LECTION MADE BY MR. LINDSEY L. JEWEL. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



Through the generosity of several of its members the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences has come into possession of a collection of some four 

 hundred ])ird skins obtained by the late Ijindsey Louin Jewel in the 

 Canal Zone, Panama. 



Mr. Jewel was stationed in the Zone from late in 1910 to the earty 

 part of 1913, engaged in engineering work, and had also been ap- 

 pointed Vice-Consul at Colon. 



His beautifully prepared skins are accompanied by numerous notes 

 on the habits, nests and eggs of many of the species. Unfortu- 

 nately these do not cover all of the species, his death having prevented 

 his return to the Zone, where he had hoped to complete his study of 

 the bird life. They have, however, been used so far as they go in the 

 following list, and as all the field notes, coloration of the soft points 

 and description of the eggs and nests are to be credited to Mr. Jewel, 

 it was thought unnecessary to make use of quotation marks; more- 

 over, as there was frequently duplication in notes referring to several 

 specimens of the same species, verbatim quotation was not practicable. 

 Some few of Mr. Jewel's notes refer to specimens which were sent to 

 the American Museum of Natural History, but they have been in- 

 cluded wherever the species was unrepresented in the collection, Mr. 

 W. DeW. Miller having kindly sent me a list of such specimens. 



Mr. Jewel published an annotated list of the North American birds 

 observed by him during his stay on the isthmus in The Auk, 1913, pp. 

 422-429, with a brief introduction describing the condition of the 

 Zone at the time his collection was made, but did not identify anj^ of 

 the resident species. Some brief mention of his work and a list of 

 birds of the Zone compiled by him from Ridgway's "Birds of North 

 and Middle America" appeared in The Canal Record for January 28, 

 1914, pp. 219-220. 



We have no record of a collection of birds having been made on the 

 isthmus until 1847, when Lafresnaye described a number of specimens 

 obtained there by DeLattre, a French collector, who was on his way 

 to South America. This collection was purchased by Dr. Thomas B. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June Oct., 



Wilson and is still preserved in this Academy, along with Dr. Wilson's 

 other material. (Revue Zoologique, 1847, pp. 67-79.) No further 

 collections were made in the Canal Zone so far as we are aware until 

 the late fifties, when James McLeannan, of New York, who was 

 stationed on the isthmus, began sending specimens to George N. 

 Lawrence, who described them in the Annals of the New York Lyceum 

 of Natural History and other scientific journals, issuing a final cata- 

 logue in three instalments. (Ann. N. Y. Lye. Vol. VII, 1861-2, pp. 

 288-302, 315-334, 461-479, and Vol. VIII, pp. 294-360.) 



During the winter of 1860-61 John R. Galbraith, son of William 

 Galbraith, a well-known New York taxidermist, went to Panama and 

 aided McLeannan in collecting for Mr. Lawrence. Some 390 species 

 in all were obtained by the two collectors and their specimens are 

 now in the American Museum of Natural History. In March, 1863, 

 the noted British ornithologist, Osbert Salvin, visited McLeannan 

 and in that year and later extensive collections were made for him and 

 sent to England, all of which are now in the British Museum with 

 the rest of the Salvin collection. 



An account of the collections sent to him by McLeannan is pub- 

 lished by Mr. Salvin in the Proceedings of the Zoological Society of 

 London, 1864, pp. 342-373, and covers 272 species. From his intro- 

 duction we learn that at the time of his visit McLeannan was track- 

 master at Lion Hill (Loma del Leon) station on the Panama Railway, 

 the second station after leaving Colon and about ten miles from the 

 coast. It was situated ' 'in the densest tropical forest, so wet that even 

 in the dry season the trails were confined to the low hills, the swamps 

 being impenetrable." Now we learn from Mr. Jewel that this 

 famous locality is swallowed up in Gatun Lake. 



In 1895, the Italian ornithologist Festa made a considerable collec- 

 tion at Punta de Sabana, Darien, and incidentally recorded a few 

 species from Colon and Panama city. 



In March, 1900, Mr. W. W. Brown, Jr., spent twenty-eight days at 

 Loma del Leon, collecting for Mr. Outram Bangs, and secured 752 

 skins representing 148 species. He also secured a collection of 86 

 species in the vicinity of Panama city on the Pacific side of the isth- 

 mus, where the country is much drier with a scrubby growth. 



At the same time that Mr. Jewel was making his collection Mr. E. 

 A. Goldman visited the isthmus in the interests of the United States 

 Biological Survey, but with the exception of descriptions of some new 

 species obtained by him his collection has not yet been reported upon. 



Mr. Jewel's collection represents 236 species and was made mainly 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



at Gatun, some three miles north of the historic Loma del Leon. 

 Other localities where he collected were Agua Clara, Mindi and Mt. 

 Hope, between Gatun and Colon; Toro Point, across the harbor from 

 the latter city, and Ft. Lorenzo on the sea front just west of the Zone 

 border. A few specimens were also secured at Tabernilla, almost half 

 way across the isthmus, and at Pedro Miguel and Miraflores, nearer to 

 Panama. 



While the ornithology of the Canal Zone is supposed to be pretty 

 well known, every large collection from the region contains a few 

 species not hitherto reported, and in view of the increased interest in 

 the country due to the opening of the canal it has seemed desirable 

 to add to my report on Mr. Jewel's collection the names of such other 

 species as have been recorded from the region, so that we may have a 

 complete list of the avifauna. In making this compilation, in addi- 

 tion to the papers above quoted, the "British Museum Catalogue of 

 Birds"; "Biologia Centrali- Americana" and Ridgway's "Birds of 

 l^orth and Middle America" have been consulted. It is possible that 

 a few of the species recorded do not occur in the Canal Zone, as in 

 some cases "Panama" has been understood as referring to the city 

 while it may have been intended to denote the isthmus in general. 



From the light that Dr. Frank M. Chapman has thrown upon the 

 distribution of neotropical bird life in his "Distribution of Bird Life in 

 Colombia" we now recognize the importance of what he terms "the 

 Panama fault" and realize that many species are absent from the 

 Canal Zone and its immediate vicinity which occur in the mountains 

 of Chiriqui to the west and in the highlands of eastern Panama. As 

 Chapman has shown, the subtropical and higher life zones are entirely 

 lacking in the lower country of the Canal Zone, so that only the trop- 

 ical fauna remains; subtropical species, therefore, which are usually 

 quoted as occurring from Costa Rica to Ecuador have a gap in their 

 range coextensive with the low ground of the isthmus. 



In the list which follows the species not contained in the Jewel 

 collection are placed in their proper sj'stematic position, but have 

 their numbers enclosed in brackets. North American migrants are 

 marked with an asterisk. 



TINAMIDuE. 



[1.] Tinamus castaneiceps Salvadori. Chestnut-headed Tinamou. 

 2. Crypturus soui modestus (Cabanis). Pileated Tinamou. 



Female, Tabernilla, March 19, 1911. Iris brownish-yellow, bill 

 fuscous lighter below, feet j^ello wish-green. 



One of a pair flushed in a thicket by a stream. They usually run 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



and hide but fly strongly when forced, evidently common but hard 

 to find. Have seen them also near Gatun. This bird contained an 

 egg ready to lay, very large for the size of the bird. 



ODONTOPHORID^. 

 3. Odontophorus guianensis marmoratus (Gould). 



Two males, Gatun, September 3, 1911, and February 22, 1912. 

 Iris brown, bare skin of face orange, bill black, feet dark greenish- 

 slate. 



On September 3, a covey of nine was flushed from rocks in the 

 forest. They fly straight away when disturbed and are strong on 

 the wing. Never seen in the open. 



ORACID^. 



[4.] Crax panamensis Ogilvie-Grant. Panama Curassow. 

 [5.] Penelope cristata (Linnaeus). Crested Guan. 

 6. Ortalis cinereiceps (Gray). Gray-headed Guan. 



Female, five miles south of Gatun, November 9, 1911. Iris gray- 

 ish-brown, bill black-grayish at tip, feet steel-gray. 

 Shot from a flock of four. 



COLUMBID^. 



[7.] Columba rufina pallidicrissa (Chubb). Pale-vented Pigeon. 



[8.] Columba subvinacea subvinacea (Lawrence). Ruddy Pigeon. 



[9.] Columba nigrirostris Sclater. Short-billed Pigeon. 



10. Columba speciosa Gmelin. Scaled Pigeon. 



Male, Gatun, May 21, 1911. Iris brown, bill coral-red with white 

 tip, feet purplish. 



Found in a low flat thicket on the bank of Gatun dam and flew in 

 rather labored manner for the forest. 



11. Chaemepelia ruflpennis ruflpennis (Bonaparte). Ruddy Ground Dove. 



Male and female, Gatun, February 12 and 26, 1911. Iris red, bill 

 light with darker tip, feet reddish-pink. 



A very common species in low lands along streams, sometimes flying 

 into the jungle growth when flushed. A nest found August 18, 1912, 

 was a flat platform of twigs built on and between two fair-sized limbs 

 of a tree eighteen feet from the ground in second-growth pasture. 

 Eggs two, .89 X .65 and .86 x .66 ins. 



12. Chaemepelia minuta elaeodes Todd. Plain-breasted Ground Dove. 



A pair, Miraflores, March 5, 1911. Iris light yellowish-brown, 

 bin grayish, feet pink. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



13. Claravis pretiosa (Ferrari-Perez). Blue Ground Dove. 



A pair, Gatun, April 20, 1911. Iris light pinkish-yellow, bill green- 

 ish with a dark line on the culmen and gonys, feet pink. 

 Female was about to oviposit. 



14. Leptotila verreauxi verreauxi (Bonaparte). Verreaux's Dove. 



Two males, Gatun, May 28, and Minti, October 7, 1911. Iris light 

 yellowish-orange, bill black, feet coral red, circumorbital area deep 

 blue. 



The latter specimen is largely in the Juvenal plumage. 



The call of this bird was a single ''coo," very deceptive as to dis- 

 tance, and in quality resembling two notes of a chord. 



15. Lsptotila cassini cassini (Lawrence). Cassin's Dove. 



A male from Gatun, August 6, 1911; female, Trinidad River, March 

 12, 1911. Iris light yellow, bill black, circumorbital space coral-red, 

 feet red. 



Found in the forest along the trails. This bird has a peculiar habit 

 of bobbing the head and tail, but the movement is not a movement of 

 the entire body as in the sandpipers. 



Nest a frail platform of sticks in a large bush, overhanging the trail 

 through a heavily overgrown pasture, at Gatun. Egg, 1.15 x .83 ins. 



[16.] Oreopeleia montana (Linnaeus). Ruddy Quail Dove. 



RALLID^. 

 17. Aramides cajanea (P. L. S. Muller). Cayenne Wood Rail. 



A male from the Chagres River, below Gatun, June 21, 1911, and a 

 female from Gatun, April 28, 1912, are lighter colored than specimens 

 from the Orinoco delta, especially as regards the gray of the throat and 

 fore breast. Iris red, bill greenish at the tip passing into yellow 

 basally, feet deep reddish-pink. 



A nest found April 27, 1913, at Toro Point, on the edge of woods 

 at the head of a small stream, was made from a bunch of leaves and 

 trash lodged on top of the bushes, eight feet up. A few strips of dead 

 banana leaves, some twigs and a few green leaves had apparently 

 been added to the mass already there. There was one egg, 2.06 x 1.34 

 ins. The bird sat very close and would not leave until the bush was 

 shaken. 



*18. Porzana Carolina (Linnaeus). Sora. 



A female from Toro Point, October 1, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, 

 bill yellowish-green, tarsi greenish-olive. 

 Shot on the bare beach at the foot of a cliff. 




244 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct.^ 



19. Creciscus albigulaxis (Lawrence). White-throated Crake. 



Two males secured at Gatun, April 4, 1911, and April 14, 1912; 

 also a jet black downy young from the same locality, September 21, 

 1911, evidently only recently hatched. Adult: iris reddish-brown, 

 bill sooty-black above green on the sides and lighter below, feet 

 greenish-black. Young: iris black, bill white, feet brownish-horn. 



Found in heavy grass in dry field near a marshy flat. Bird had a 

 striking whistle of alarm and a "gathering call" when running similar 

 to that of the Bobwhite. 



20. lonornis martinicus (Linn). 



Female, Gatun Lake, July 9, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, bill bright 

 red with greenish-yellow tip and purplish-blue frontal shield, feet 

 yellow. 



Flushed from a small grassy island, dove when shot, but stayed 

 under water but a short time. 



HELIORNITHID^. 



21. Hehornis fulica (Boddaert). American Finfoot. 



Female, Gatun Lake, February 23, 1913. Iris brown, hds red, bill 

 red passing into white on lower part of the mandible, feet barred- 

 black and yellowish- white. 



A very shy bird. Its call is a peculiar "bark" of one to three notes. 

 This specimen was nearly ready to incubate. 



COLYMBID^. 

 f22.1 Colymbus dominicus brachyrhynchus Chapman. Mexican Grebe. 



LARID^. 

 *23. Hydrochelidon nigra surinamensis (Gmelin). Black Tern. 



Female, Gatun Lake, December 3, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, 

 feet blackish-brown. ' . 



*24. sterna hirundo Linnseus. Common Tern. 



]Male, shot from a flock, Gatun Lake, December 3, 1911, and a soli- 

 tarj^ female, from same locahty, June 9, 1912 (in Amer. Mus. Nat. 

 Hist.). Iris brown, bill black lighter at the tip and reddish at base, 

 feet light orange-brown. 



OHARADRIID^. 

 *25. Aegialitis semipalmata (Bonaparte). Semipalmated Plover. 



A pair from Toro Point, July 23, 1911, shot from a flock of eight on 

 the mud flats. Iris black, bill black with a narrow yellow-orange 

 band from the nostrils underneath the mandible in a half ring, feet 

 greenish-yellow. 



It was also present, August 4, 1912, and September 4, 1911. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



[26.] Aegialitis coUaris (Vieillot). Collared Plover. 



*27. Oxyechus vociferus vociferus (Linnaeus). Killdeer. 



One specimen, Gatun, February 18, 1912. 



RECURVIROSTRID^. 

 *28. Himantopus mexicanus (P. L. S. Miiller). Black-necked Stilt. 



A female, Gatmi, November 12, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, bill 

 blackish, feet deep pink. 



Observed for a week on the edge of the hydraulic fill of Gatun dam. 



SCOLOPAOID^. 



*29. Numenius hudsonicus Latham. Hudsonian Curlew. 



A female, Gatun, October 18, 1911, shot from flock of four feeding 

 in a pasture on grasshoppers and butterflies. Iris brown, bill dusky- 

 greenish becoming black at the tip, feet grayish-blue. 



*[30.] Macrorhamphus griseus griseus (Gmelin). Dowitcher. 

 *[31.] Tetanus melanoleucus (Gmelin). Greater Yellowlegs. 

 *32. Totanus flavipes (Gmelin). Lesser Yellowlegs. 



A solitary male obtained at Gatun, May 21, 1911, and a flock of 

 half a dozen seen at the same place August 27, 1911. A female was 

 also obtained at Mindi, October 7, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet 

 yellow. 



Frequented a grassy marsh below the dam. 



*33. Helodromas solitarius solitarius (Wilson). Solitary Sandpiper. 



Female, Gatun, September 10, 1911 (not preserved); male, ]Mt. 

 Hope, April 13, 1913. Iris brown, bill greenish becoming black 

 terminally, feet green. 



A flock of four were seen September 10 in a small running stream. 



*34. Actitis macularia (Linnaeus). Spotted Sandpiper. 



Specimens obtained at Gatun, February 22, September 4 and Octo- 

 ber 1, 1911, and April 28, 1912; also at Pedro Miguel, April 23, 1911, 

 Toro Point, August 4, 1912. 



The individual obtained April 23 alighted on a dead tree top, four 

 feet above the water, an unusual action in a wader. 



*35. Bartramia longicauda (Bechstein). Field Plover. 



Two males, Gatun, October 12, 1911. Iris brown, bill yellowish 

 with dusky tip, feet yellowish-green. 

 Flushed in an open field. 



*36. Ereunetes pusillus (Linnaeus). Seniipalmated Sandpiper. 



Female, Toro Point, September 4, 1911. Iris, bill and feet black. 

 One of a few associated with many Pisohia minutilla on the beach. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



*37. Tryngites subruficollis (Vieillot). Buff-breasted Sandpiper. 



One of a pair found on dry pasture land at Gatun, October 18, 1911. 

 Iris brown, bill dusky-greenish, feet greenish. 



*38. Pisobia minutilla (Vieillot). Least Sandpiper. 



Two males, Toro Point, September 4, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, 

 feet dusky-greenish. 



Obtained from a flock of a dozen or more on the beach. 

 Another was obtained at Mt. Hope, August 31, 1913. 



*39. Pisobia maculata (Vieillot). Pectoral Sandpiper. 



Two females obtained at Mindi, in a grassy marsh, October 7 and 

 22, 1911. Iris black, bill blackish-green, feet greenish. 



*[40.] Pisobia fuscicollis (Vieillot). White-rumped Sandpiper. 

 *41. Gallinago delicata (Ord.). Wilson's Snipe. 



Male, Mindi, October 22, 1911, one of a bag of twelve killed in a 



grassy marsh. Iris brown, bill dusky-green tipped with black, feet 



yellowish-green. 



JACANID^. 



42. Jacana nigra (Gmelin). Black Jacana. 



Three specimens, male and female, Gatun Lake, July 9, 1911, where 

 it was ver}^ common, and a female from Agua Clara, Trinidad Eiver, 

 March 12, 1911. A specimen in the American Museum of Natural 

 History was obtained at Mindi, November 3, 1911. Iris greenish- 

 yellow, bill greenish fading to pink at the base and yellow below at 

 the base, frontal shield lavender, feet green washed with blue, wing 

 spur bright yellow. 



A common species on grassy knolls in the lake. 



[43.] Jacana melanopygia (Sclater). Black-rumped Jacana. 



EURYPYGID^. 



[44.] Eurypyga major Hartlaub. Greater Sun Bittern. 



IBIDID^. 

 [45.] Harpiprion cayennensis (Gmelin). Cayenne Ibis. 



CICONIIDuS. 

 [46.] Mycteria americana Linnseus. Wood Ibis. 



ARDEID^. 



[47.] Ardea herodias lessonii Wagler. Great Blue Heron. 



[48.] Egretta candidissima (Gmelin). Snowy Egret. 



[49.] Herodias egretta (Gmelin). American Egret. 



50. Florida caerulea (Linnseus). Little Blue Heron. 



Two males, Chagres River, below Gatun, February 19, 1911, one in 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



the immature white plumage, the other in the adult blue. Iris 

 bright yellow, bill light blue shading to black at the tip, feet greenish. 

 A most abundant species, to be seen at almost any time in almost 

 any quantity. 



61. Hydranassa tricolor ruficoUis (Gosse). Louisiana Heron. 



Female, Gatun, February 18, 1912. Iris bright yellow, bill sooty- 

 black on the culmen, pale yellow at the gonys, bare skin yellow, feet 

 greenish. 



*52. Nycticorax nycticorax naevius (Boddaert). Black-crowned Night Heron. 



An immature female, Mindi, October 29, 1911. Dull gray and 

 somewhat streaked below, but with the top of the head and interscap- 

 ulum greenish-black. 



[53.] Cochlearius zeledoni Ridgway. Zeledon's Boatbill. 

 [54.] Pilherodius pileatus (Boddaert). Capped Heron. 

 55. Butorides striata (Linnaeus). Black-crowned Heron. 



Two males, Gatun, June 9, 1912, and July 16, 1911. Iris bright 

 yellow, bill black with yellow at the base and the gonys, feet yellow. 



*56. Butorides virescens hypernotius Oberholser. West Indian Green Heron. 



Male, Gatun, September 17, 1911. Iris bright yellow, maxilla 

 black with pale tomia, mandible greenish-yellow, feet greenish-yellow. 



[57.] Tigrisoma lineatum (Boddaert). Tiger Bittern. 

 [58.] Tigrisoma cabanisi Heine. Cabanis' Tiger Bittern. 

 59. Ixobrychus exilis (Gmelin). Least Bittern. 



Female, Mt. Hope, September 13, 1913. Iris bright yellow, bill 

 dusky above, yellow below, feet yellowish. 

 A crippled bird, nearly starved. 



*[60.] Botaurus lentiginosus (Montagu). American Bittern. 



ANATIDJE. 



[61.] Cairina moschata (Linnaeus). Muscovy Duck. 



[62.] Dendrocygna autumnalis (Linnaeus). Black-bellied Tree Duck. 

 *[63.] Anas platyrhynchos Linnaeus. Mallard. 

 *[64.] Dafila acuta (Linnaeus). Pintail. 



*65. Querquedula discors (Linnaeus). Blue-winged Teal. 



Female, Mindi, October 22, 1911. Iris brown, bill greenish-black 

 paler below, feet dull yellow with dark joints and webs. 



This bird has rusty stains on the plumage of the entire lower parts. 

 One of a flock on the Mindi marshes. 



*66. Marila afSnis (Eyton). Lesser Scaup Duck. 



Female, Gatun, November 25, 1911. Iris brown, bill blackish, 

 feet bluish-gray with black joints and webs. 



The species was abundant on Gatun Lake on November 26. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



PHALACROCORAOID^. 



67. Phalacrocorax vigua vigua (Vieillot). Brazilian Cormorant. 



Female, Gatun Lake, December 17, 1911. One of a flock roosting 

 in a dead tree in the water. It is in the brown immature plumage. 



SULID.^. 



68. Sula leucogastra (Boddaert). Booby. 



Female in brown immature plumage secured at sea sixty miles north 

 of Colon, December 4, 1910. Iris grayish-white, bill dark bluish- 

 horn color lighter at the tip, tarsi bluish-white, feet yellowish. 



PELECANID^. 

 [69.] Pelecanus occidentalis Linnseus. Brown Pelican. 



FRBGATID^. 

 [70.] Fregata minor palmerstoni (Gmelin), Pacific Man-o'-war Bird. 



CATHARTID^. 



[71.] Gypagus papa (Linnaeus). King Vulture. 



[72.] Cathartes aura aura (Linnseus). Turkey Vulture. 



[73.] Catharista urubu (Vieillot). Black Vulture. 



FALOONID^. 

 74. Ibycter americanus (Boddaert). Red-throated Caracara. 



Male, Rio Indis, four miles from Gatun, November 19, 1911. Iris, 

 bare skin of throat and face and tarsi orange red, claws black, bill 

 yellow, cere grayish-blue. 



[75.] Milvago chimachima (Vieillot). Yellow-headed Caracara. 

 *76. Circus hudsonius (Linnseus). Marsh Hawk. 



Female, Gatun, December 11, 1910. Iris dark brown, bill horn 

 color black at tip, cere and feet yellow. 



One of a pair which beat along the shores of Gatun Lake daily for a 

 week or more. A common species in winter. 



[77.] Micrastur melanoleucus (Vieillot). Black and White Hawk. 



[78.] Micrastur mirandollei (Schlegel). 



79. Micrastur guerilla interstes Bangs. Cassin's Barred Hawk. 



Male, Agua Clara, May 19, 1912, and female, Gatun, August 27, 

 1911, both in immature plumage, are referred to this species. " The 

 male is marked above with indistinct buff transverse spots on the 

 wings and interscapulum and with narrow dark-brown bars below. 

 The female is plain buff except on the sides of the breast and flanks, 

 where there are a few transverse brown bands partially obscured by 

 the buff feathers. Iris grayish-brown, cere j^ellowish or olive-green, 




1918. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



l)ill horn color, mandible yellow at base almost all yellow in female, 

 feet yellow. 



The latter bird was shot from a perch in low bushes in the forest 

 near a small marshy stream. Its stomach was filled with remains of 

 slugs, batrachians and small lizards. 



[80.] Geranospizias niger (DuBus). Blackish Crane Hawk. 

 [81.] Accipiter collaris Kaup. Semi-collared Hawk. 

 [82.] Accipiter bicolor (Vieillot). Four-banded Hawk. 

 *[83.] Accipiter velox (Wilson). Sharp-shinned Hawk. 

 *84. Buteo platypterus (Vieillot). Broad-winged Hawk. 



Adult male, Gatun, December 13, 1911, and female in striped 

 plumage, Gatun, November 30, 1911. Iris grayish-brown, bill black 

 bluish at the base, cere greenish-yellow, feet yellow. 



Male shot in the heavy forest, the other in a clearing near the edge 

 of the forest. 



*85. Buteo swainsoni Bonaparte. Swainson's Hawk. 



Female, Mindi, October 22, 1911. Quite dark above and below. 

 Iris brownish-gray, bill grayish-blue with dusky tip, cere dull green- 

 ish, feet pale yellow. 



Another specimen was given to the U. S. Biological Survey. 



86. Asturina nitida (Latham). Shining Buzzard Hawk. 



Male, Gatun, November 3, 1911. This interesting specimen is in 

 immature striped plumage and is referred to this species on the basis 

 of comparison with adults, as I have no authentic specimens in this 

 stage of plumage. The light bases and margins to the feathers of 

 the head are pale buff, those of the back and wings more strongly 

 rusty. Below the throat is nearly white, but the rest of the ground 

 color tawny-buff. The brown spots are very coarse. The primaries 

 are cream with blackish tips, with a rusty suffusion where the colors 

 join. There are narrow dusky cross bars, fewer on the primaries 

 than on the secondaries, so that the under part of the. closed wing is 

 almost uniform creamy buff, except for the dusky terminal portion. 

 Iris grajdsh-brown, bill black, cere and feet yellow. 



Stomach contained a large lizard and the gullet a fair sized mouse. 



87. Rupornis magnirostris ruficauda (Sclater and Salvin). Large-billed Hawk. 



Female, Trinidad River, eight miles south of Gatun, March 24, 

 1912. Iris bright yellow, bill black, bluish at base, cere and feet j'el- 

 low. 



[88.] Busarellus nigricollis (Latham). Black-collared Hawk. 

 [89.] Urubitinga urubitinga (Gmelin). Brazilian Eagle. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



90. Urubitinga anthracina (Nitzsch). Mexican Black Hawk. 



Male, Ft. Lorenzo, January 7, 1912. Iris brown, bill blue-black, 

 base and cere and feet yellow. 



Shot from a palm tree. It had been feeding on carrion in the marsh. 



[91.] Leucopternis semiplumbea Lawrence. Semiplumbeous Hawk. 

 92. Leucopternis ghiesbreghti (DuBus). Ghiesbrecht's Hawk. 



Female, Gatun, February 22, 1911, and another not now in the 

 collection, July 28, 1912. Iris dark brown, bill grayish-blue dusky at 

 tip, cere and orbital ring bluish, feet pale yellow. 



Shot in the thick forest. Had a peevish whistled note. Another 

 female was shot previously at the same spot; it is always found in the 

 jungle timber, and had apparently just deposited eggs. 



[93.] Morphnus guianensis (Daudin). Guiana Crested Eagle. 

 [94.] Thrasaetus harpyia (Linnaeus). Harpy Eagle. 

 [95.] Spiziastur melanoleucus (Vieillot). Black and White Eagle. 

 [96.] Spizaetus ornatus (Daudin). JManduit's Hawk Eagle. 



97. Spizaetus tjrrannus (Wied.). Tyrant Hawk Eagle. 



Female, Gatun, February 4, 1912. Iris l^right orange, bill blue- 

 black, cere slaty, toes yellow. 

 Shot in the forest. 



98. Harpagus bidentatus (Latham). Double-toothed Hawk. 



Male, Gatun, June 9, 1912. Iris purplish-red, bill black, slaty on the 

 sides and beneath, cere greenish, tarsi yellow. 



[99.] Herpetotheres cachinnans (Linnseus). Laughing Hawk. 



[100.] Elanoides forficatus (Linnaeus). Swallow-tailed Kite. 



[101.] Leptodon uncinatus (Temmink). Red-collared Kite. 



[102.] Ictinea plumbea (Gmelin). Plumbeous Kite. 



*[103.] Falco columbarius Linnaeus. Pigeon Hawk. 



104. Falco albigularis Daudin. White-throated Hawk. 



Female, Toro Point, August 4, 1912. Iris brown, bill black, blue- 

 gray at base, cere and feet rich yellow. 

 Shot flying along the beach. 



*105. Cerchneis sparveria sparveria (Linnaeus). Sparrow Hawk. 



Male, Gatun, January 29, 1911. Several others killed and given 

 away— March 5, 1911, April 4, 1911. 



[106.] Pandion haliaetus carolinensis (Gmelin). Osprey. 



TYTONIDiE. 

 107. Tyto perlata guatemalae (Ridgway). Central American Barn Owl. 



^Nlale, Gatun, August 1, 1911. Iris black, bill whitish ivory. 

 One of a pair living in ventilators of a l)uilding in the town. Always 

 came out at dusk and flew in the same direction. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



BUBONID^. 



[108.] Rhinoptynx clamator (^■ieillot). Striped Horned Owl. 



[109.] Otus choliba (Vieillot). Choliba Screech Owl. 



[110.) Otus vermiculatus (Ridgway). Vermiculated Screech Owl. 



[111.] Pulsatrix perspicillata perspicillata (Latham). Spectacled Owl. 



[112.] Ciccaba nigrolineata nigrolineata Sclater. Black and White Owl. 



[113.] Ciccaba virgata virgata Cassin. Cassin's Owl. 



PSITTACID^. 

 114. Ara macao (Linnisus). Scarlet Macaw. 



A cage bird said to have been taken on the upper Trinidad. 



[115.] Ara chloroptera Gray. Red, Blue and Green Macaw. 



[116.] Ara ambigua (Bechstein). Buffon's Macaw. 



[117.] Ara severa (Linnseus). Severe Macaw. 



[118.] Eupsittula ocularis (Sclater and Sah-in). Veragua Parrot. 



[119.] Pyrilia haematotis coccinicollaris (Lawrence). Red-necklaced Parrot. 



[120.] Amazona autumnalis salvini (Sahadori). Salvin's Parrot. 



[121.] Amazona ochrocephalus panamensis (Cabanis). Panama Parrot. 



122. Amazona farinosa inornata (Salvadori). Plain-colored Parrot. 



■Female, Gatun, June 4, 1911. Iris brown in young bird, red in 

 adult; bill horn color with yellowish spot on side, cere grayish becom- 

 ing darker with age, feet dark gray becoming yellow in adult, bare 

 skin of chin and around the eye white. 



Found in heavj^ forest sitting motionless in a large tree with two^ 

 others, probably young. Gullet was filled with very hard white seeds. 



123. Pionus menstruus (Linnaeus). Blue-headed Parrot. 



Female, Trinidad River, near Agua Clara, March 12, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill lighter at base and with a large red spot on the sides of the 

 mandible, cere black. 



A noisy species. 



124. Brotogeris jugulaxis (Miiller). Tovi Parrakeet. 



Two females, Gatun, May 14, and Toro Point, April 2, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill and feet light gray-brown, cere very light ashy. 

 Remarkably swift in flight and usuall}^ shy. 



ALOEDINID^. 



125. Streptoceryle torquata torquata (Linnaeus). Ringed Kingfisher. 



Female, Chagres River, four miles below Gatun, February 19, 1911. 

 Eyes black, bill black, feet bluish-black. 



Found all along the river. They are comparatively shy and hard 

 to approach, dashing out of the foliage and holding close to the shore 

 in the shadow of the banks. 

 IS 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



*126. Streptoceryle alcyon alcyon (Linnaeus) . Belted Kingfisher. 



Male, Toro Point, October 1, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet 

 dark brown. 



One of six or eight migrants. 



127. Chloroceryle amazona (Latham). Amazon Kingfisher. 



Male, Gatun River, July 8, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 

 Shot three miles up the river, well into the forest. 



128. Chloroceryle americana isthmica (Goldman). Isthmian Green Kingfisher. 



Two females, Gatun, January 29 and April 18, 1911; male, Chagres 

 River, near the sea, June 11, 1911. Iris dark brown, bill and feet 

 black. 



The most common Kingfisher. 



[129.] Chloroceryle inda (Linnaeus). Green and Rufous Kingfisher. 



130. Chloroceryle aenea aenea (Pallas). Least Green Kingfisher. 



Male, Gatun, July 9, 1911. Iris black, bill black with pale stripe 

 on the gonys, feet sooty-brown. 



MOMOTID^. 



131. Urospatha martii semirufa (Sclater). Greater Rufous Motmot. 



Male, Gatun, August 18, 1912. Iris dark brown, bill and feet 

 black. 



Stomach contained a small red crab, entire. 



132. Momotus subrufescens conexus (Thayer and Bangs). Small-billed Motmot. 



Male, Gatun, March 17, 1912. Iris reddish-brown, bill black, feet 

 flesh color. 



133. Electron platyrhynchus minor (Hartert). Lesser Broad-billed Motmot. 



Two males, Gatun, August 20, 1911, and April 28, 1912. Iris 

 brown, bill and feet black. 

 Found in heavy forest. 



[134.] Hylomanes momotula obscurus Nelson. Panama Tody Motmot. 



NYCTIBIID^. 

 135. Nyctibius griseus panamensis Ridgway. Panama Potoo. 



Male, Gatun, August 11, 1912. Iris golden yellow, bill blackish, 

 feet light brown. 



[136.] Nyctibius grandis (Gmelin). Great Potoo. 



OAPRIMULGID^. 

 137. Nyctidrotnus albicollis albicollis (Gmelin). Parauque. 



Male and female, Gatun, February 5, 1911, and April 7, 1912. Iris 

 brown, bill brown, feet gray-brown. 



May be flushed from the ground in almost any medium thick growth, 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



where it rests in the shade. Female specimen flushed from eggs laid 

 on the bare ground on an old path. They measured 1.10 x .84 and 

 1.12 X .86 ins. 



[138.] Stenopsis cayennensis albicauda (Lawrence). White-tailed Stenopsis. 

 [139.] Antrostomus rufus rufus (Boddaert). Rufous Goatsucker. 

 *140. Chordeiles virginianus virginianus (Gmelin). Nighthawk, 



Female, Gatun, October 3, 1911. Bill black, tarsi grayish. 

 One of a flock feeding overhead. 



*141. Chordeiles acutipennis texensis (Lawrence). Texas Nighthawk. 



Male and female, Gatun, December 10, 1911. 



MIOROPODID^. 



142. Chaetura cinereiventris fumosa (Salvin). Smoky Swift. 



Male, Gatun, May 14, 1911. 



One of a flock feeding along the base of a hill over a wild banana 

 plantation. Sexual organs well developed. 



143. Chaetura chapmani Hellmayr. Chapman's Swift. 



Two females, Gatun, July 9, 1911. Iris clark-brown, bill black, 

 tarsi sooty-brown. 



Two of a large flock feeding over the jungle below Gatun dam. 

 This seems to be the first record of this species from Panama. 



This species was described by Mr. Hellmayr (Bull. Brit. Orn. 

 Club, xix, p. 62, 1907) from a Trinidad specimen collected by Dr. 

 F. M. Chapman and recorded by him as C. cinereicauda Cassin (Bull. 

 Amer. Mus. Nat. Hist., 1895, p. 324). Before describing it as dis- 

 tinct Mr. Hellmayr sent me a specimen of this and allied forms for 

 comparison with Cassin's type. As he has stated, I found Cassin's 

 specimen to be identical with C. hrachyura (Jardine). At the same 

 time I found a specimen of the proposed C. chapmani in the Academy 

 collection, and a comparison of this with the Panama specimens be- 

 fore me positively confirms mj^ identification. This extends the 

 range of the species northward, as it was previously known only from 

 Trinidad and French Guiana according to Hellmayr. 



TROOHILIDJE. 



144. Threnetes ruckeri (Bourcier). Rucker's Hermit. 



Two males, Gatun, February 12, 1911, and January 28, 1912. Iris 

 black, maxilla black above with a narrow yellow strip on each side 

 from the base, mandible yellow with a black tip, feet pink. 



A bird of the jungle, a noisy species. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



145. Glaucis hirsuta affinis (Lawrence). Lesser Hairj' Hermit. 



Two males and a female, Gatim, February 5 and May 7, 1911, and 

 April 30, 1911. Iris black, maxilla black, mandible yellow with black 

 tip, feet flesh color. 



A bird of the thick jungle, always well below the top foliage. 



Four nests found April 30 hung on blades of thorny palm leaves 

 fastened with cobweb. May 7, one nest contained two pure white 

 eggs, .35 X .61 and .34 x .62 in. 



146. Phoethornis adolphi saturatus Ridgway. Dusky Hermit. 



Two males, Gatun, April 9, 1911. Iris black, maxilla black, mand- 

 ible bright yellow abruptly black near tip, feet flesh color. 



Frequently seen but always near the same spot, a stretch of jungle 

 just west of Gatun dam. They seldom ^y ov^er twelve inches from the 

 ground, usually under the foliage, darting al^out like bees. They are 

 very noisy, chirping constantly one note at a time and then several 

 rapid notes of varying pitch. This sounds so like several birds that I 

 have more than once crept close and looked long to find a single indi- 

 vidual perched on a leaf stem a few inches from the ground, beating 

 his little tail up and down as though he would break himself in two and 

 chirping away for dear life. Once I saw one leave a leaf stem about 

 eight inches from the ground and hanging on invisible wings revolve 

 around and around as if he were a weight suspended at the end of a 

 thread, first one way and then the other as if winding and unwinding. 

 Then with great energy he flew in a figure eight back and forth over 

 the same path, and the figure was not over eighteen inches long. 

 (Jewel.) 



147. Phoethornis longirostris cephalus (Bourcier and Mulsant). Nicaraguan Hermit. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, February 12, May 7 and 30, 1911. 

 Iris-black, bill black with base of mandible yellow, feet pink. 



A bird of the thick j ungle. Its nest Avas hung on the underside of a 

 broad leaf at the pendant tip. It was a compact cup of grass stalks 

 wrapped onto the leaf tip with spiders' webs, the nest tapering down 

 below the end of the leaf. The bird sits facing the leaf with his bill 

 pointed straight up against it. The broad point of the leaf arches 

 overhead like a roof. (Jewel.) 



148. Phaeochroa cuvieri cuvieri (DeLattre and Bourcier). Cuvier's Hummingbird. 



Two males, Gatun, April 14, 1914. Iris brown, bill black, basal 

 half of mandible pink, feet black. 



149. Florisuga mellivora (Linnseus). Jacobin Hummingbird. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, April 14, May 30, and April 9, 

 May 21, 1911. Iris, bill and feet black. 




\ 



1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Stomach filled with very small insects of a greenish metallic lustre. 

 A bird of the jungle. 



150. Polyerata amabilis (Gould). Lovely Hummingbird 



Three males, Gatun, January 1, February 11, 1912, and April 9, 

 1911. Iris dark brown, bill black yellowish below with black tip, 

 feet black. 



Shot in the jungle. 



151. Lepidopyga caeruleogularis (Gould). Duchassain's Hummingbird. 



Three males and a female, Gatun, March 2, 1911, and May 30, 

 August 11, 1912; two other males, Mt. Hope, August 31, 1913, and 

 Ft. Lorenzo, Januarj' 7, 1912. Iris and feet black, maxilla black, 

 mandible pink with a black tip. 



152. Saucerottia edwardi (DeLattre and Bourcier). Wilson's Hummingbird. 



Three males, Gatun, April 14, 1911 (2), March, 1912. Iris, feet 

 and maxilla black, mandible pale tipped with black. 

 Obtained in the forest. 



[153.] Saucerottia niveoventer (Gould). Snowy-breasted Hummingbird. 

 154. Amazilia tzacatl tzacatl (De la Llave). Rieffer's Hummingbird. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, July 4, 1911, May 30, 1912, and 

 May 7, 1911, January 14, 1912. Iris and feet black, bill black pur- 

 plish about the nostrils and below. 



A nest found April 30 was on the horizontal limb of a shrub, five 

 feet from the ground, a dainty cup of light yellow silky vegetable 

 fiber, with a few gray lichens on the outside, all held together by a 

 network of spiders' webs. Contained two fresh eggs May 7. Another 

 nest about fifteen feet from the ground in similar situation found 

 May 7 contained one egg and one young bird. (Jewel.) 



It seems to the writer that it will be necessary to revert to the 

 generic name Amazilia Lesson for these birds. When Dr. Oberholser 

 proposed to adopt Amizilis Gray (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1899, 

 p. 206) he asked me to verify some references for him and through a 

 misunderstanding a quotation from Gray's large work, "Genera of 

 Birds," was quoted as from his "List of Genera of Birds, 1840." This, 

 however, does not affect the main question and is mentioned in order 

 to correct an obvious error for which I am mainly responsible. 



The generic name Amizilis does occur in Gray's 1840 "List" as 

 correctly quoted in the IgflO edition of the "A. O. U. Check-List," 

 i. e., p. 14, with the following as its basis: 



A. latirostris (Sw.) n. Ois. M., pi. 12. Or. amizili Less. 



The A. O. U. committee accepted Orthorhynchus amizili Less, as the 

 type on the basis of Gray's use of it alone in his 1855 edition of the 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



"List." As a matter of fact, in all editions of the "List" we find on 

 the title page "with an indication of the typical species of each genus'' 

 and the citation of a species in any edition is rightly regarded as a type 

 designation for the genus under which it is quoted. Where two names 

 are cited as above the second is obviously intended as a synonym of 

 the first and is usually a reference to a plate or figure of the species. 

 Gray's own statement on the title page, moreover, proves that he was 

 citing but a single species under each genus. 



In the present case he misidentified the Cynanthus latirostris of 

 Swainson, thinking it the same as Orthorhynchus amizili Lesson, and 

 did not correct his error until the 1855 edition. Upon this basis 

 C. latirostris becomes the type of Amizilis Gray, 1840, which, there- 

 fore, becomes a synonym of Cynanthus Swainson, 1827. 



Amazilia Lesson, L'Echo du Monde Sav. ser. 2, viii, No. 32, Oct. 

 22, 1843, col. 757, seems to be the first name available for the present 

 genus. Mr. Ridgway (Birds of N. and Mid-America, vol. V, p. 405) 

 quotes five species as mentioned by Lesson, and of these I would 

 designate Ornismia cinnamomea Less. ( = 0. rutila DeLattre) as the 

 type of Amazilia Lesson. 



155. Hylocharis eliciae (Bourcier and Mulsant). Elicia's Golden-tail. 



Male, Gatun, July 28, 1912. Iris black, bill bright red, terminal 

 third black, feet blackish. 



[156.] Damophila panamensis Berlepsch. Panama Hummingbird. 



157. Chlorostilbon assimilis Lawrence. Allied Emerald. 



Male and female, Gatun, April 5, 1912, and October 14, 1911. Iris 

 and feet black, maxilla black, mandible orange-brown tipped with 

 black, 



158. Thalurania colombica colombica (Bourcier). Colombian Wood Nymph. 



Four males and two females, Gatun, May 14, June 4 (2), 1911, 

 February 4, 1912, and May 28, 1911, July 28, 1912. Iris and bill 

 black the latter yellowish at extreme base, feet black, under side of 

 toes pink. 



Found in the jungle. 



[159.] Chalybura buffoni (Lesson). Buffou's Plumeleteer. 



160. Anthracothorax nigricoUis nigricollis (Vieillot). Black-throated Mango. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, May 14, 21 and 28, 1911. Iris^ 

 bill and feet black. 



In wild banana thickets on the edge of the jungle. 



[161.] Heliothryx barroti (Bourcier and Mulsant). Barrot's Fairy. 



[162.] Anthoscenus longirostris longirostris (Vieillot). Long-billed Star-throat. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



[163.] Lophornis delattrei (Lesson). DeLattre's Coquette. 



[164.] Popelairia conversii aequatorialis (Berlepsch and Taczanowski). Salvin's Thorn-tail. 



T.ROGONID^. 

 165. Curucujus massena (Gould). Massena Trogon. 



Two males and two females, April 13, 1911, March 2, 1913, and 

 June 11, 1911, March 2, 1913. Iris brownish-yellow in male, brown 

 in female, bill red in male; mandible yellow, maxilla black in female, 

 feet grayish-brown. 



Female, June 11, contained an egg nearly read}^ to deposit, pure 

 glossy white. 



[166.] Curucujus melanurus macrourus (CJould). Large-tailed Trogon. 

 [167.] Curucujus clathratus (Salvin). Lattice-tailed Trogon. 



168. Trogon strigilatus chioniu-us (Sclater and Salvin). White-tailed Trogon. 



^Nlale, Gatun, September 3, 1911. Iris dark brown, eyehds light 

 blue, bill dull yellowish-green with a sooty terminal area, feet whitish. 

 Found in open forest, 



169. Chrysotrogon caligatus (Gould). Gartered Trogon. 



■Male, Rio Trinidad, March 31, 1912. Iris brown, eyehds yellow, 

 bill greenish-gray. ' 



170. Trogontxrus curucui tenellus (Cabanis). Graceful Trogon. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, August 6 (pair), December 3, 1911. 

 Iris brown or black, eyelids grayish-blue, bill yellowish-green, feet 

 grayish-lead. 



Found in heavy forest. 



CUCULIDiE. 



*171. Coccyzus americanus americanus (Linnaeus). Yellow-billed Cuckoo. 



Female, Mindi, October 22, 1911. 



172. Piaya cayana thermophila (Sclater). Central American Squirrel Cuckoo. 



Female, Toro Point, March 3, 1912. Iris red, eyelids greenish- 

 yellow, bill greenish-yellow, feet blackish-slate. 



[173.] Neomorphus salvini Sclat?r. Salvin's Ground Cuckoo. 

 174. Coccycua rutila panamensis (Todd). Panama Cuckoo. 



Male, Gatun, Februaiy 27, 1912. Iris and eyelids red, bill green- 

 ish-yellow, feet greenish-gray, mouth black inside. 



[175.] Dromococcjrx phasianellus (Spix). Pheasant Cuckoo. 

 [176.] Crotophaga sulcirostris Swainson. Groove-billed Ani. 

 177. Crotophaga ani Linnaeus. Ani. 



A pair, Gatun, August 11, 1912, and a male, Mt. Hope, June 1, 1913. 

 Iris brown, bill and feet black. 



A nest belonging to these birds in bush three feet from ground, a 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



bulky cup of sticks, weed stalks with rootlets inside, and a few green 

 leaves partly covering the eggs, which were five in number, 1.37 x 1.01 

 to 1.46 X 1.05 ins., blue covered with white chalk}^ deposit. The bird 

 slipped off and crawled away through the weeds. 



178. Tapera naevia excellens (Sclater). Northern Striped Cuckoo. 



Male, Gatun, November 5, 1911. Iris light reddish-brown, max- 

 illa brown, black on the culmen, mandible pale-horn, feet grayish-blue. 

 Stomach filled with grasshoppers. 



CAPITONID^. 



179. Capito maculicoronatus maculicoronatus Lawrence. Spotted-crowned Barbet. 



Male, Mt. Hope, February 22, 1913. Iris brown, Inll and feet 

 blue-gray. 



RAMPHASTID^. 



[180.] Ramphastos swainsonii Gould. Swainson's Toucan. 

 [181.] Ramphastos ambiguus Swainson. Wag'.er's Toucan. 

 182. Ramphastos piscivorus brevicarinatus (Gould). Short-tailed Toucan. 



Two males, Gatun, July 4 and 30, 1911. Iris bottle-green, bill 

 yellowish-green with a triangular orange streak on the side of the 

 maxilla, mandible bluish at base shading into the yellowish-green 

 subterminally, ends of both blood red, a narrow black band all around 

 the base, bare skin around the eye and throat green, feet bluish-green. 



Call is loud and piercing, repeated rapidly and almost constantly. 



[183.] Selenidera spectabUis Cassin. Cassin's Aracari. 

 184. Pteroglossus torquatus torquatus (Gmelin). Collared Aracari. 



Male, Gatun, February 22, 1911. Iris bright yellow, bare skin 

 around the eye and lores dark red, bill with a narrow white band 

 around the base, mandible dark-horn color with one light spot be- 

 neath, maxilla black at end with a black stripe the full length of the 

 culmen, sides lighter with reddish-brown shading near base, edge of 

 "teeth" black, feet olive-green. 



Shot on the edge of the jungle. - 



GALBULID^. 

 [185. J Jacamerops aurea (Miiller). Great Jacamar. 



BUCOONIDu53. 

 186. Notharchus tectus subtectus (Sclater). Black-breasted Puff Bird. 



Three females, Gatun, January 27, 28, 1912, and IVIarch 2, 1913. 

 Iris brown, bill black, feet blue-black. 



Stupid birds found in second growth, usually feeding on termites' 

 nests, fluttering to the nest and then back to their perches. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



[187.] Notharchus hyperrhynchus dysoni (Sclater). Dyson's Puff Bird. 

 [188.] Notharchus pectoralis (Gray). Black-breasted Puff Bird. 

 [189.] Ecchaunornis radiatus fulvidus (Salvin and Godman). Fulvous Puff Bird. 

 190. Malacoptila panamensis panamensis Lafresnaye . Panama Malacoptila. 



Male, Agua Clara, May 19, 1912, and female, Gatun Lake, March 

 30, 1913. Iris red, bill dusky above greenish l^elow, feet grayish-green. 



[191.] Monasa fidelis Nelson. Golden Nun Bird. 

 [192.] Monasa similis Nelson. Cerro Azul Nun Bird. 

 [193.] Nonnula frontalis Sclater. Panama Nonnula. 



PICIDuE. 



194. Centurus subelegans wagleri (Salvin and Godman). Wagler's Woodpecker. 



Three males, Tabernilla, March 19, Miraflores, March 5, and 

 Toro Point, April 2, 1911, and female, Gatun, September 10, 1911. 

 Iris brown, bill black, feet dark olive. 



The specimen taken March 19 was one of a brood just leaving a 

 nest in a dead stub about eighteen feet from the ground in an open 

 field. Another nest in a hole, fifteen feet up in dead stub, April 28, 

 1912, contained two eggs, .94 x .70 and .93 x .69 in. 



195. Melanerpes pucherani pucherani (Malherbe). Pucherani's Woodpecker. 



Two males, Gatun, April 4 and May 30, 1911. Iris brown, bill 

 black, feet greenish-gray. 



First bird had nest hole in dead tree in a clearing. 



[196.] Chloronerpes callopterus Lawrence. Panama Woodpecker. 



197. Celeus loricatus loricatus (Reichenbach). Eraser's Woodpecker. 



A pair, Mindi, October 22, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, bill pale 

 greenish-yellow with dusky culmen, feet gray-green. 



198. Ceophloeus lineatus mesorhynchus (Cabanis and Heine). Panama Pileated Wood- 



pecker. 



Male, Mt. Hope, August 31, 1913, and male, Gatun, November 12, 

 1911. Iris yellowish-white, bill brown, feet grayish-blue. 



199. Scapaneus malherbii (Gray). Malherbe's Woodpecker. 



A pair, Gatun, November 12, 1911. Iris golden-yellow, bill brown, 

 feet grayish-blue. 



200. Picuminis olivaceus panamensis Ridgway. Panama Piculet. 



Female, Gatun, May 28, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet greenish. 

 Young male, Mindi, September 17, 1911. 



FORMIOARIID^, 



201. Cymbilaimus lineatus fasciatus Ridgway. Fasciated Ant-Shrike. 



Female, Gatun, May 26, 1912. Iris carmine, bill black above 

 gray below, feet blue-gray. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



202. Taraba transandeana transandeana (Sclater). Holland's Ant-Shrikp. 



Male, Rio Siri, twenty miles from Gatun, November 19, 1911, and 

 female, Gatun, March 29, 1911. Iris brownish-orange, bill black, 

 feet bluish-gray. Female, Gatun, March 29, 1911. Iris red-orange. 



Stomach of latter specimen contained many ants and a lizard three 

 inches and a half in length, the legs and tail of which had been cut 

 off and swallowed separately. 



203. Thamnophilus radiatus nigxicristatus (Lawrence). Black-crested Ant-Shrike. 



Male, Tabernilla, March 19, 1911. Iris dull greenish-yellow, bill 

 black above, bluish below, feet dark-bluish. Female, Gatun, April 

 30, 1911. Iris light yellow. 



Found in clearings near the jungle. 



204. Erionotus punctatus atrinucha (Salvin and Godman). Slaty Ant-Shrike. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, July 30, 1911, February 11, 

 1912, and May 7, May 30, 1911. Iris brown, bill black above blue- 

 gray below, feet grayish-blue. 



Nest found May 7, 1911, in the horizontal fork of a horizontal limb, 

 twelve feet from the ground, in a thick jungle. A very frail and 

 pensile cup of grass stalks covered over on the sides loosely but heav- 

 ily with fuzzy green moss, bottom so thin that there seemed danger of 

 the eggs falling through. Contained one egg, .64 x .85 in., white, 

 with a broad wreath of rufous brown spots at the larger end. 



A bird of the jungle. 



205. Microrhopias boucardi virgata (Lawrence). Panama Ant-Wren. 



Female, Gatun, January 21, 1912. Iris black, bill black wath blue 

 tomial stripe, feet blue-gray. 



A noisy, active, arboreal species, an inhabitant of the jungle. 



206. Myrmotherula surinamensis (Gmelin). Surinam Ant-Wren. 



Female, Rio Siri, March 31, 1912. Iris brown, bill brownish-black 

 paler below, feet blue-gray. 



Found in a clearing along the bank of the river. Nest pensile at 

 end of slender branch six feet from ground, made of fine grasses with 

 curtain of green moss on exposed side. Eggs two, July 13, 1912, 

 .67 x .51 and .69 x .53 in., grayish-white, heavily speckled, mottled and 

 washed with shades of cinnamon-brown, with a heavier wreath around 

 the larger end. 



[207.] Myrmotherula pygmaea (Gmelin). Pigmy Ant-Wren. 

 208. Cercomacra nigricans Sclater. Black Tyrannine Antbird. 



Two males. Colon, February 25, 1913, Toro Point, August 4, 1912. 

 Iris brown, bill black, feet slaty. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



209. Cercomacra t3rrannina tyrannina (Sclater). Tyrannine Antbird. 



Female, Gatun, July 30, 1911. Iris grayish-brown, bill black above 

 pale grayish-brown below, feet blue-gray. 

 Shot in a forest thicket. 



[210.] Myrmopagis melaena (Sclater). Black Ant- Wren. 



211. Myrmopagis fulviventris (Lawrence). Lawrence's Ant-Wren. 



Three males and a female, Gatun, May 14, 1911, January 21, July 

 21, 1912, and June 25, 1911. Iris light yellow, bill bluish-black 

 lighter below, feet pinkish, toes blue. 



Found in low wet forest, near the ground, creeping about the 

 shrubbery like a warbler or vireo. 



212. Myrmeciza boucardi panamensis Ridgway. White-bellied Antbird. 



Male and female, Tabernilla, March 19, 1911, and Pedro Miguel, 

 May 5, 1912. Iris reddish-brown, bill black, feet pale. 



The pair collected March 19 had their stomachs filled with ants and 

 I watched them for some time hopping back and forth along a trail 

 of leaf-cutter ants. 



213. Myrmeciza exsul exsul Sclater. Sclater's Antbird. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, July 2, 1911, March 24, 1912, and 

 August 6, 1911. Iris brown, skin around the eye blue, bill black, feet 

 bluish-gray. 



A noisy species, inhabiting the thick jungle. 



214. Ramphocaenus rufiventris rufiventris. Northern Long-biUed Ant-Wren. 



Female, Gatun, June 25, 1911. Iris brown, bill grayish-brown, 

 feet blue-gray. 

 A forest bird. 



[215.] Microbates cinereiventris semitorquatus (Lawrence). Half-collared Ant-W>en. 

 [216.] Anaplops bicolor (Lawrence). Bicolored Ant-Thrush. 



217. Gymnocichla nudiceps nudiceps (Cassin). Bare-crowned Antbird. 



Two males, Gatun, February 5 and April 9, and one Tabernilla, 

 April 8, 1911. Iris dark brown, bill black, feet blue-gray. 



Several individuals were seen in the jungle climbing along roots and 

 low stems; never saw one on the ground. 



218. Hylophylax naevioides (Lafresnaye). Spotted Antbird. 



Two males, Gatun, May 14 and August 20, 1911. Iris brow^i, bill 

 black, feet blue-gray. 



Nest found in fork of small bush in the forest, about four feet from 

 the ground, a thin pensile cup containing two nearly feathered young. 



219. Formicarius moniliger panamensis Ridgway. Panama Antbird. 



Female. Iris brown, bill black, feet brownish, bare skin pale 

 bluish-gray. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



[220. J Phaenostictus mcleannani mcleannani (Lawrence). McLeannan's Ant-Thrush. 

 221. Pittasoma michleri michleri Cassin. Michler's Ant-Pitta. 



Male and female, Gatun, July 21, 1912, and August 13, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill black whitish below, feet blue-gray. 



A shy species found in the heavy jungle. Had a very loud pene- 

 trating whistled call, "qua, qua, qua," etc., slower toward the end, 

 gave it several times on the ground and then flew to a perch about 

 twent}^ feet up and repeated it several times more. 



[222.] Hylopezus perspicillatus perspicillatus (Lawrence). Lawrence's Antbird. 



DENDROCOLAPTID^. 



[223.] Synallaxis pudica pudica Stlater. Slaty Synallaxis. 



224. Automolus pallidigularis pallidigularis Lawrence. Pale-throated Automolus. 



Male, Gatun, August 13, 1911. Iris brown, bill dusky-horn, feet 

 grayish-olive. 



Shot on the ground in the forest. Nest on open tops of twigs, 

 dead leaves, etc., lined with fine grass, slightly elbow-shaped, and 

 about twelve inches long; situated in a tree fork, seven feet up; eggs, 

 two fresh, .83 x .62 in. 



225. Xenops genibarbis tnexicanus (Sclater). Mexican Xenops. 



Three males, Gatun, November 30, 1911, January 21 and May 26, 

 1912. Iris brown, bill black, feet dark blue-gra3^ 

 Found in the forest. 



226. Sclerurus guatemalensis (Hartlaub). Guatemalan Sclerurus. 



Two males, Gatun, August 20, 1911, and February 22, 1912. Iris 

 dark brown, maxilla black, mandible pale brownish-yellow with dusky 

 tip, feet blackish-brown. 



Nest found August 20 was elbow-shaped, made of twigs, leaf skele- 

 tons, weed stalks, rootlets, etc., lined with fine leaf skeletons and four 

 feathers. Eggs, .97 x .64 and .92 x .61 in., glossy white, smaller one 

 very sparingly specked with deep rich brown, larger one more heavily 

 marked with spots and specks of olive-brown. 



[227.] Sclerurus mexicanus mezicanus Sclater. Mexican Sclerurus. 



228. Glyphorhynchus cuneatus pectoralis (Sclater). Northern Wedge-bill. 



Male and female, Gatun, July 21, 1912, and March 22, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill blackish, feet bluish-black. 



Found creeping about tree trunks in heavy jungle. 



[229.] Deconychura typica Cherrie. Cherrie's Dechonicura. 



[230.] Dendrocincla homochroa ruficeps (Sclater and Salvin). Panama Ruddy Dendrocincla. 



231. Dendrocincla lafresnayi ridgwayi (Oberholser). Brown Dendrocincla. 



Two males, Gatun, May 21 and August 20, 1911. Iris grayish- 

 brown, bill black, gonys light blue, feet blue. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263^ 



In company with the next species on tree trunks in the forest. 



[232. J Dendrocolaptes sancti-thomae sancti-thomae (Laf resnaye) . Barred Wood-Hewer. 

 [233.] Xiphorhynchus punctigulus punctigrulus (Ridgway). Spotted-throated Wood-Hewer. 



234. Xiphorhynchus nanus nanus (Lawrence). Lawrence's Wood-Hewer. 



Two males and two females, May 21 and June 25. 1911; INIarch 29, 

 1911, and July 21, 1912. Iris brown, bill blackish, feet bluish-horn 

 color. 



A rather common forest bird. 



235. Xiphorhynchus lacrimosus lacrimosus (Lawrence). Black-striped Wood-Hewer. 



Female, Gatun, November 12, 1911. Iris brown, maxilla horn 

 color, mandible pale bluish-white, feet bluish-gray. 



Shot from a tree trunk in the sul^merged area of Gatun Lake. 



[236.] Picolaptes lineaticeps lineaticeps Lafresnaye. Streaked-headed Wood-Hewer. 



237. Campylorhamphus venezuelensis (Chapman). Venezuelan SicklebilL 



Male, Gatun, April 14, 1911. Iris brown, bill light reddish-brown, 

 feet fuscous. 



Was picking dead wood from the rotted end of a tree limb, searching. 

 for boring insects or larvse. 



TYBANNID^. 



238. Copurus leuconotus Lafresnaye. White-backed Copurus. 



]\Iale and female, Gatun, February 18, 1912. Iris brown, bill and 

 feet black. 



[239.] Placostomus superciliaris (Lawrence). Lawrence's Spade-billed Flycatcher. 

 240. Craspedoprion aequinoctialis (Sclater). Equinoctial Flycatcher. 



Two females, Gatun, December 18, 1910, and August 6; 1911. Iris 

 black, bill black above pinkish below, feet gray-blue. 

 Found in wild banana thickets and in the forest. 



[241.] Rhynchocyclus marginatus Lawrence. Yellow-margined Flycatcher. 

 [242.] Rhynchocyclus cinereiceps (Sclater). Gray-headed Flycatcher. 

 243. Rhynchocyclus flavo-olivaceus Lawrence. Yellow-olive Flycatcher. 



]\Iale and female, Gatun, July 2 and May 28, 1911. Iris brownish- 

 gray, bill black above whitish below, tarsi grayish-brown. 



A forest species. 



Nest hung loosely from a branch over the water, composed of a mass 

 of very long brown fibers, entrance from the bottom, passage extend- 

 ing up about eight inches to nest proper, which was compactly built; 

 contained three 3'oung May 28. Another nest exactly like this one 

 was placed a few feet below, close to the water and contained one^egg, 

 light reddish-brown, with deeper colored spots forming a wreath^at 

 the larger end. The lower nest had been water-soaked. The female 

 specimen was sent to the American Museum of Natural History. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



244. Myiopagis placens accola Bangs. Panama Placid Flycatcher. 



Male, Gatun, October 17, 1911. Iris brown, bill brown above pale 

 Ijelow, feet brownish-black. 



Shot from a small hedge near the lake shore. Specimen not in the 

 collection. 



245. Todirostrum cinereum finitimum Bangs. Northern Tody Flycatcher. 



Male and female, Gatun, February 27, 1912, and April 21, 1911. 

 Iris light yellow, bill black, base and tip of mandible white. 



Nest found late in March, suspended from tip of twig ten feet from 

 the ground, pensile and shaped like an inverted pear, opening on the 

 side at about one-third the height. Nest ten and a half inches high 

 and three in outside diameter at bottom, made of plant fibers, weed 

 bark and fine grasses, covered on exposed side with brown fuzzy seeds. 

 Progress in building was very slow but on April 21 it contained two 

 eggs, .46 X .63 in. Two other nests contained two eggs each — April 30, 

 1911, and June 23, 1912. 



[246.] Todirostrum nigriceps Sclater. Black-headed Tody Flycatcher. 

 247. Todirostrum schistaceiceps Sclater. Slate-headed Tody Flj catcher. 



Male and female, Pedro Miguel, May 5, 1912, and a male, Gatun, 

 February 16, 1912. Iris brown, bill black paler below, feet blue-gray. 



[248.] Oncostoma cinereigulare (Sclater). Bent-billed Flycatcher. 



249. Oncostoma olivaceum (Lawrence). Lawrence's Bent-billed Flycatcher. 



Two males and a female, March 26, November 3 and November 26, 

 1911. Iris yellowish-white, bill dusky paler below, feet grayish. 



Has a peculiar clear note, a short song or trill of several notes. 

 Found in the dry jungle and in groves. 



250. Atalotriccus pilaris pilaris (Cabanis). Pigmy Flycatcher. 



Two males, Pedro Miguel, April 23, 1911, and May 5, 1912. Iris 

 yellowish-white, bill dusky paler below, feet pale-brownish. 



Found in second growth. Call a trill, resembling the last syllable 

 of the Wood Pewee's note {Myiochanes virens) prolonged. 



251. Pipromorpha oleaginea parca (Bangs). Bangs' Pipromorpha. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, July 4, November 30, May 14, 

 1911. Iris brown, bill black lighter below, feet brownish-flesh. 



A forest species. 



Nest found May 14 hung on a long slender vine between the trunks 

 of large trees, about six feet up. A long pear-shaped structure with 

 entrance on the side, made of green moss and fine grasses. Eggs 

 three, pure white, .58 x .78, .57 x .76 and .56 x .75 in. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G5 



252. Mionectes olivaceus olivaceus Lawrence. Olivaceous Mionectes. 



Male, Gatun, August 20, 1911. Iris brown, bill black paler 

 basally and below, feet light grayish-brown. 

 Found in the forest. 



[253.] Leptopogon pileatus Cabanis. Brown-capped Leptopogon. 



[254.] Leptopogon flavovirens Lawrence. Yellow-green Leptopogon. 



[255.] Capsiempis flaveola (Lichtenstein). Yellow Flycatcher. 



[256.] Tyranniscus vilissimus parvus (Lawrence). Lesser Paltry Flycatcher. 



257. Caiuptostoma pusillum flaviventre (Solater and Salvin). Yellow-bellied Camptostoma. 



Two males, Gatun, April 21, 1911, and May 26, 1912. Iris brown, 

 bill fuscous paler below, tarsi black. 

 Shot from a small tree in an open marshy flat. 



258. Elaenia martinica subpagana (Sclater and Salvin). Northern Elaenia. 



Two females, Gatun, April 21, 1912, and Pedro Miguel, April 23, 

 1911. Iris brown, bill fuscous lighter below, feet blackish. 



Found on the edge of swampy thickets. 



Nest found April 23 saddled on a horizontal limb eight feet from 

 the ground ; a shallow and compact cup three inches in diameter, made 

 of fine rootlets, twigs, etc., covered with green moss and gray lichens 

 and lined with dove feathers. Two eggs, .64 x .86 in., white, with 

 small cinnamon-brown blotches and spots in a wreath at the larger 

 end. Another nest at Mt. Hope, April 13, 1913, was exactly like this 

 one; eggs, two. 



259. Elaenia chiriquensis chiriquensis Lawrence. Lawrence's Elaenia. 



A male and female, Gatun, July 2, 1911, January 27, 1912, and a 

 female, Miraflores, March 5, 1911. Iris brown, bill fuscous lighter 

 below, feet bluish-black. 



260. Legatus albicollis (Vieillot). Striped Flycatcher. 



Male, Gatun, May 2, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 

 Shot on the edge of the jungle. 



[261.] Sublegatus glaber Sclater and Salvin. Smooth Flycatcher. 



262. Myiozetetes cayanensis cayanensis (Linnaeus). Cayenne Flycatcher. 



Three females, Gatun, January 29, May 21 and July 16, 1911. 

 Iris brown, bill and feet black. 



Nest adorned like others of the genus and contained one egg March 

 17, 1912, .62 X .87 in. Another, May 21, 1911, contained three eggs, 

 .63 X .84 and .64 x .85 in. 



Found in a marshy thicket. On January- 29 there was a large flock 

 feeding in the tree tops in wet woodland. 



263. Myiozetetes texensis columbianus (Cabanis and Heine). Colombian Flycatcher. 



Two males and two females, February 12, April 9, 1911, and April 

 14, 1911, April 21, 1912. Iris light yellow, bill and tarsi black. 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



A bird of the open, and never found far from water. 



Nest on horizontal stem of a bush leaning over the water, eight feet 

 above the surface, constructed of plant bark, weed stalks and grasses, 

 lined with very fine grass, bulky but compact, opening on side, nearly 

 spherical, six inches in diameter: Contained three fresh eggs April 

 9, .64 X .90 and .68 x .94 in., white, finely speckled with cinnamon- 

 brown. Another exactly similar nest found April 14 in same situa- 

 tion held two fresh eggs. 



264. Myiozetetes granadensis Lawrence. Gray-capped Flycatcher. 



Male, Gatun, July 2, 1911. Iris gray, bill and feet black. 

 Nest as in the last species. 

 Found in thickets. 



265. Pitangus lictor (Lichtenstein). Lictor Flycatcher. 



Female, Gatun, July 9, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 

 Contained an egg nearly ready for deposit. 



[266.] Coryphotriccus albovittatus (Lawrence). White-ringed Flycatcher. 

 267. Myiodynastes maculatus nobilis (Sclater). Noble Flycatcher. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, November 26, 1911, ]March 30, 

 1913, and November 30, 1911. Another not in the collection was 

 taken January 21, 1912. Iris brown, bill black above pinkish below 

 with black tip, feet bluish-black. 



Found in the jungle and in clearings along the edge. 



[268.] Myiodynastes luteiventris Sclater. Sulphur-bellied Flycatcher. 



269. Megarynchus pitangua mexicanus (Lafresnaye). Boat-billed Flycatcher. 



Female and 3'oung, Ft. Lorenzo, June 2, 1911. Iris brown, bill and 

 feet black. 



Nest belonging to these birds was a shallow mass of sticks, thirty-five ' 

 feet up in a tree. 



[270.] Onychorhynchus mexicanus fraterculus Bangs. Colombian Royal Flycatcher. 

 [271. J Cnipodectes subbrunneus (Sclater). Brown Flycatcher. 

 [272.] Cnipodectes minor Sclater. Lesser Brown Flycatcher. 



273. Terenotriccus erythrurus fulvigularis (Salvin and Godman). Fulvous-throated Fly- 



catcher. 



Two females, Gatun and Rio Trinidad, August 6, 1911, March 31, 

 1912. Iris brownish-black, bill sooty above whitish below, feet buffy. 

 Found in the forest. 



274. Myiophobus fasciatus furfurosus (Thayer and Bangs). Bran-colored Flycatcher. 



Male and female, Gatun, March 26 and November 3, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill black lighter below, feet black. 



In second growth thickets and in thick jungle. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



275. MyioDius barbatus atricaudus (Lawrence). Black-tailed Myiobius. 



Male and female, Gatun, June 25 and August 13, 1911. Iris 

 black, bill black above, mandible grayish-blue with black tip, feet 

 dark gray. 



In thickets on the forest edge. Nest a pendant bell-shaped struc- 

 ture with entrance beneath the passage going up and over into the 

 nest cavitj^; made of dead leaves and fine vegetable fiber, lined with 

 vegetable silk and fine fibers. Situated on a branch overhanging a 

 stream in the forest. Eggs two, rich deep rufous, wreathed about the 

 larger end with deeper shade of the same, .65 x .50 in. 



Another pair found building July 30 had finished their nest by Au- 

 gust 6. Eggs two, .64 X .50 and .67 x .50 in. Location and materials 

 exactly as in the former one. 



[276.] Myiobius xanthopygus sulphureipygius (Sclater). Sulphur-rumped Myiobius. 

 *[277.] Empidonax flaviventris (Baird). Yellow-bellied Flycatcher. 

 *[278.] Empidonax virescens (Vieillot). Acadian Flycatcher. 



[279.] Empidonax albigularis Sclater and Salvin. White-throated Flycatcher. 

 *[280.] Empidonax minimus (Baird). Least Flycatcher. 

 *[281.] Empidonax traillii traillii (Audubon). Traill's Flycatcher. 

 *[282.] Empidonax traillii alnorum Brewster. Alder Flycatcher. 

 *[283.] Myiochanes richardsoni richardsoni (Swainson). Western Wood Pewee. 

 *[284.] Myiochanes virens (Linnseus). Wood Pewee. 



Male, Gatun, November 3, 1911. Iris brown, bill black above 

 yellow below, feet black. 



One of several migrants, calling repeatedly. Specimen not in the 

 collection. 



[286.] Myiochanes brachytarsus (Sclater). Short-legged Wood Pewee. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, January 14, 1912, February 

 16, 1913, and April 4, 1911, January 1, 1912. Iris brown, bill black 

 above, mandible rich yellow, feet black. 



Found in trees in low flat jungle. Note very similar to that of the 

 preceding but with weaker accent. 



*[286.] Myiarchus crinitus (Gmelin). Great-crested Flycatcher. 



287. Myiarchus ferox panamensis (Lawrence). Panama Flycatcher. 



Two males. Ft. Lorenzo, June 11, and Toro Point, July 23, 1911. 

 Iris brown, bill and feet black. 



Found in low bushes along the river bank and seashore. 



288. Myiarchus nigriceps Sclater. Black-crested Flycatcher. 



A pair, Gatun, February 4, 1912, and a male, Gatun, November 26 > 

 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 

 19 




2G8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



289. Tyrannus dominicensis dominicensis (Gnielin). Graj' Kingbird. 



Female, Gatun, February 16, 1912. Bill and feet black. 



*290. Tyrannus tyrannus (Linnseus). Kingbird. 



Female, Toro Point, April 27, 1913. 

 A solitary migrant, perfectly silent. 



291. Tyrannus melancholicus satrapa (Cabanis and Heine). Lichtenstein's Kingbird. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, December 3, February 5, 1911, 

 and February 12, March 26, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet blue- 

 black. 



A very common species in shrubbery along the lake, apparently 

 always near water. 



Nest a thin cup of vine stalks and tendrils in a bush, five feet up, con- 

 tained three eggs March 20, 1912, .98 x .71, .99 x .70 and .98 x .72 in. 



292. Muscivora tyrannus (Linnaeus). Swallow-tailed Flycatcher. 



Female, Mindi, October 29, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 

 Shot from a small tree in a pasture. 



PIPRID^. 



293. Pipra mentalis ignifera Bangs. Southern Yellow-thighed Manakin. 



Three males, Gatun, April 30, August 27, 1911, and February 22, 

 1912. 

 Found in trees in low flat jungle. 



294. Pipra velutina Berlepsch. Velvety Manakin. 



Female, Gatun, July 30, 1911. Iris brown, bill black above 

 grayish below, feet blue-black. 

 A bird of the forest. 



[295.] Chiroprion lanceolata (Wagler). Sharp-tailed Manakin. 

 [296.1 Laniocera rufescens (Sclater). Rufous Manakin. 

 297. Manacus vitellinus (Gould). Gould's Manakin. 



Three males and a female, Gatun, February 22, April 9 and 14, 1911, 

 and April 14, 1911. Iris and bill black, feet reddish-orange. 



Always found in fairty thick jungle. Flies with wing beats almost 

 as rapid as those of a hummingbird, seen in shrubs and bushes, never 

 high up nor on the ground. Makes a snapping noise exactly like 

 knocking two stones together and another sound like tearing heavy 

 cloth. 



Nest hung on a fork of a horizontal twig of a small bush five feet 

 from the ground, a very frail shallow cup, made of strips of plant bark, 

 hair-like rootlets and grass stalks. Eggs two, heavity incubated 

 (April 14), .62 x .82 in., grayish, heavily streaked longitudinally with 

 varying shades of brown. Another nest contained two fresh eggs 

 May 7, 1911. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



COTINGID^. 

 298. Tityra semifasciata costaricensis Ridgway. Costa Rican Tityra. 



Male, Ft. Lorenzo, February 26, 1911, and female, Gatun, Feb- 

 ruary 23, 1913. Iris reddish, bare skin around the eye and base of 

 bill red, tip of bill black, feet gray. 



Found along the shores of the lake and river. 



[299.] Erator albitorques (DuBus). Frasei 's Erator. 



[300.] Platypsaris homochrous (Sclater). One-colored Becard. 



301. Pachyrhamphus polychropterus cinereiventris (Sclater). Gray-billed Becard. 



Male and female, Gatun, June 25 and 18, 1911. Iris black, bill 

 blue-gray with black tip, feet blue-black. 



Nest found June 18 in a crotch of a small tree twenty-five feet from 

 the ground, an enormous pile of strips of dead banana leaves, plant 

 fibers, weeds, bark, etc. A small opening on one side. Eggs three, 

 two of which hatched the same day. The young are hatched naked 

 and blind, reddish in color. Eggs grayish-lavender, streaked and 

 scrawled w^ith deeper brownish. 



[302,.] Pachyrhamphus dorsalis Sclater. Bogota Becard. 



303. Pachyrhamphus cinereus (Boddaert). Cinereous Becard. 



Male, Gatun, May 26, 1912. Iris brown, bill blue-gray with black 

 tip, feet light gray. 



304. Pachjrrhamphus cinnamomeus Lawrence. Cinnamon Becard. 



Two males, Gatun, July 4, 1911, and Februarj^ 22, 1912. Iris 

 brown, bill black above, mandible blue-graj^, feet blue-gray. 

 Found in the forest. 



[305.] Microtriccus brunneicapillus (Lawrence). Brown-capped Tyrannulet. 



306. Tyrannulus elatus reguloides (Ridgway). Riker's Yellqw-crowned Tyrannulet. 



JVIale, Toro Point, March 3, 1912. Iris buffy-white, feet grayish- 

 blue. 



307. Elainopsis gaimardii macilvainii (Lawrence). Mcllvaine's Flycatcher. 



Male, Gatun, July 4, 1911. Iris brown, bill blue-black lighter at 

 base below, feet blue-black. 



Found along the forest trail. Has a quaint single call of Flycatcher 

 ciuality. 



I follow Mr. Ridgway in placing this genus in the Cotingidae, 

 though I cannot but feel that its affinities are with the Tyrannidae. 



[308.] Lipaugus holerythrus holerythrus Sclater and Salvin. Rufous Lipaugus. 



[309.] Lathria unirufa clara Ridgway. Panama Lathria. 



1310.] Sirystes albogriseus (Lawrence). Panama Sirystes. 



311. Attila citreopygus citreopygus (Bonaparte). Sclater's Attila. 



Male, Gatun, July 2, 1911. Iris gray-brown, bill sooty-black 

 paler at base of mandible, feet blue. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct.^ 



A dull stupid bird, perching high up in the forest. 



[312.] Cotinga nattererii (Boissoneau). Naterer's Cotinga. 



313. Querula purpurata (Miiller). Purple-throated Fruit Crow. 



Male and female, Gatun, June 23, 1912, Iris brown, bill blue- 

 gray black at tip, feet black. 



It flocks in the forest, a shy species. 



HIRUNDINID^. 

 *314. Riparia riparia (Linnseus). Bank Swallow. 



Male, Gatun, September 23, 1911. 

 Shot from a flock of migrants. 



315. Iridoprocne albilineata (Lawrence). Mangrove Swallow. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, July 17, May 30, 1911, and July 

 17, 1911. Iris brown, bill blue-black, feet black. 



Common along the Chagres River, where it nests in holes in partly 

 submerged stumps. 



3^16. Pygochelidon cyanoleuca (Vieillot). Blue and White Swallow. 



Male and female, Gatun, July 7 and 16, 1911. Iris dark brown, 

 bill and feet black. 



On the former date a flock was coursing over the lawns and clear- 

 ings. On the latter some two hundred were lined up on a telephone 

 wire. 



[317.] Neochelidon tibialis (Cassin). White-thighed Swallow. 

 *318. Hirundo erythrogaster Boddaert. Barn Swallow. 



Male and female, Gatun, April 20 and May 30, 1911. 



A common migrant through April. The unusually late female 

 specimen showed a breeding tendency, as several eggs were well 

 started. It was associated with a flock of Iridoprocne albilineata. 



319. Progne chalybea chalybea (Gmelin). Gray-breasted Martin. 



Male, Gatun, February 4, 1912. Another was obtained at the 

 same place April 13, 1911, but is not in the collection. Iris brown, 

 bill and feet black. 



Nest in holes usually inaccessible on account of the mud and water. 



*[320.i Petrochelidon lunifrons tachina Oberholser. Lesser Cliff Swallow. 

 320a. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Audubon). Rough-winged Swallow. 



A male, Gatun, December 18, 1910, is typical of this species except 

 for a slight subterminal dusky blotch on the longest under tail coverts. 

 It is quite uniform above and is thus distinguished at a glance from 

 specimens of S. ridgwayi. This occurrence is apparently farther 

 south than any previously recorded. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



321. Stelgidopteryx ruficollis uropygialis (Lawrence). Panama Rough-winged Swallow. 



A male and two females, Gatun, July 9, 1911, and June 3, 1912, 

 November 5, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet dull black. 

 The last specimen has two pure white quills in the wing. 



POLIOPTILID^. 



322. Polioptila superciliaris superciliaris Lawrence. Lawrence's Gnatcatcher. 



Male, Gatun, Januarj- 1, 1912. Iris brown, bill black, mandible 

 blue-gray at base, feet black. 

 Found in second growth. 



TROGLODYTID^. 

 [323.1 Heleodytes albobrunneus Lawrence. White-headed Cactus Wren. 

 324. Thryophilus modestus elutus Bangs. Panama Wren. 



Two males, Gatun, April 30 and December 24, 1911. Iris golden 

 brown, bill black, mandible bluish-gray with black tip. feet blue-gray. 

 In thickets near the jungle. 



[325.] Thryophilus rufalbus castanonotus Ridgway. Chestnut-backed Wren. 



326. Thryophilus galbraithii galbraithii (Lawrence). Galbraith's Wren. 



A pair, Gatun, June 23, 1912, and a male, Gatun, April 14, 1912. 

 Iris reddish-brown, bill dusky paler below, feet blue-gray. 

 In thickets. 



327. Thryophilus castaneus castaneus (Lawrence). Bay Wren. 



Male, female and nestling, Gatun, February 18, March 15, 1911, 

 and July 28, 1912. Iris reddish-brown, bill black lighter below, 

 feet black. 



Found in heavy undergrowth in damp jungle-thickets. Song 

 loud and ringing, resembling that of Thryothorus ludovicianus, but 

 much longer. 



Nest a loosely built elbow-shaped affair, made almost entirely of a 

 round-stemmed grass and lined with finer stems of the same, a few 

 coarser stems and reddish-brown vine tendrils on the outside. Loosely 

 placed in vines, four feet up, by a stream; contained one fresh egg, 

 July 28, measuring .90 x .59 in. 



328. Troglodytes musculus inquietus (Baird). Panama House Wren. 



Male and female, Gatun, February 26, 1911; male, Gatun, Sep- 

 tember 17, 1911, and female and young, Ft. Lorenzo, June 11, 1911. 

 Iris gray-brown, bill and feet brown. 



In thickets along the lake shore, cocoanut groves, etc. 



A nest was built in a floating boathouse, on a beam under the roof, 

 made of weed stalks, small twigs and a few feathers inside. Also 

 contained a small cast snake skin and part of a kodak film. The 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



first two eggs were destroyed and three more were laid June 5, light 

 pink heavily speckled with rufous brown with wreath effect at large 

 end, .74 x .56 and .75 x .55 in. After these were taken three more 

 were laid and hatched. The boathouse was moved two hundred 

 yards after the nest was built, but the birds were not disturbed by 

 the change of location. 



329. Henicorhina prostheleuca pittieri (Cherrie). Pittier's Wood Wren. 



Male, Gatun, February 22, 1912. Iris brown, bill and feet black. 



330. Leucolepis lawrencii (Sclater). Lawrence's Musician Wren. 



Male and female, Gatun, July 30, 1911, and April 9, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill black, feet light brown, bare skin around the eye bluish- 

 green. 



A bird of the jungle. 



Nest found in low wet forest two feet from the ground on May 7, 



1911. It consisted of a long tube or tunnel with the nest proper 

 at the far end, built of sticks, twigs and dead leaves, lined with grasses. 

 Eggs two, .65 X .92 and .65 x .89 in., white, very finely and sparingly 

 speckled with brown, one almost immaculate. 



[331.] Pheugopedius hyperythrus (Salvin and Godmaii). Tawny-bellied Wren. 



332. Pheugopedius fasciato-ventris albigularis (Sclater). Panama Black-bellied Wren. 



Male, Gatun, June 25, 1911. Iris bright brown, bill black bluish- 

 gray below, feet bluish-gray. 



Shot in a jungle thicket on a small stream. 



[333.] Microcerculus luscinia Salvin. Panama Nightingale Wren. 



MIMID^. 

 [334.] Dumetella carolinensis (Linnaeus). Catbird. 



TURDID^. 

 335. Planesticus grayi casius (Bonaparte). Bonaparte's Thrush. 



Male, Miraflores, March 5, 1911; female, Pedro Miguel, May 5, 



1912. Iris dark brown, bill dark yellow greenish at base, feet pale 

 yellow. 



Call note resembles that of the American Robin (P. migratorius) . 

 Frequents tall trees in the jungle. 



Nest in fork of a small tree in second growth timber, twelve feet 

 from the ground, Pedro Miguel, April 23, 1911; a typical cup with 

 base of weed and cattle manure, and built of twigs, straw, dead leaves 

 and moss, with a lining of rootlets and tendrils. Eggs three, fresh, 

 .86 X 1.24 and .88 x 1.23 ins., greenish-blue heavily marked with 

 various shades of brown, mainly at the larger end. 




1918.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



Another nest in same vicinity, May 5, 1912, contained three incu- 

 bated eggs, 1.12 X .83 and 1.13 x .84 ins. A third set of three meas- 

 ured 1.04 X .72 and 1.06 x .73 ins. 



[336.] Planesticus obsoletus (Lawrence). Lawrence's Thrush. 

 *[337.J Hylocichla ustulata swainsonii (Cabanis). Olive-backed Thrush. 

 *[338.] Hylocichla fuscescens fuscescens (Vieillot). Veery. 



VIREONID.^. 

 339. Vireosylva flavoviridis flavoviridis Cassin. Yellow-green A'ireo. 



Alale, Agua Chira, May 19, 1912. Iris red, bill and feet pale 

 blue-gray. 



*[340.] Vireosylva olivacea (Linngeus). Red-eyed Vireo. 

 *[341.] Lanivireo flavifrons (Vieillot). Yellow-throated Vireo. 



342. Pachysylvia viridiflava (Lawrence). Yellow-green Pachysylvia. 



Male, Mt. Hope, February 22, 1913; female, Gatun, May 30, 1912. 

 Iris whitish yellow, bill and feet pinkish. 



343. Pachysylvia aurantiifrons aurantiifrons (Lawrence). Lawrence's Pachysylvia. 



Male, Pedro Miguel, May 5, 1912. 



Shot from a tree in a wild banana jungle. 



344. Pachysylvia decurtata (Bonaparte). Graj--headed Pachysylvia. 



Male and young, Gatun, July 4 and June 25, 1911. Iris dark 

 brown, bill gray-brown, feet bluish-gray. 

 Found in the forest. 



[345.] Vireolanius pulchellus viridiceps Ridgway. Panama Shrike- Vireo. 

 *[346.I Bombycilla cedrorum. Vieillot. Cedar Waxwing. 

 [347.] Anthus parvus Lawrence. Panama Pipit. 



MNIOTILTID^^. 

 *348. Mniotilta varia (Linnaeus). Black and White Warbler. 



Male, Gatun, March 26, 1911. 



*349. Protonotaria citrea (Bodd.aert). Prothonotary Warbler. 



Male, Toro Point, October 1; female, Mindi, October 7, 1911. 



*[350.] Vermivora chrysoptera (Linnseus). Golden-winged Warbler. 

 *[351.] Vermivora peregrina (Wilson). Tennessee Warbler. 

 *[352.] Dendroica magnolia (Wilson) . Magnolia Warbler. 

 *[353.] Dendroica coronata (Linnseus). Myrtle Warbler. 

 *[354.] Dendroica virens (Gmelin). Black-throated Green Warbler. 

 *[355.] Dendroica cerulea (Wilson). Cerulean Warbler. 

 *[356.] Dendroica fusca (Muller). Blackburnian Warbler. 

 *357. Dendroica pensylvanica (Linnseus). Chestnut-sided Warbler. 



Two males and one unsexed, Gatun, March 31, 1911 (molt com- 

 pleted), February 4, 1912 (molt begun), Februaiy 22, 1912. 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Qct., 



*358. Dendroica castanea (Wilson). Bay-breasted Warbler. 



Three males, Gatun, November 3, 1911 (2), and Toro Point, April 

 27, 1913, and one unsexed, Gatun, February 16, 1913. 



*359. Dendroica aestiva aestiva (Gmelin). Yellow Warbler. 



Four males and two females, Gatun, March 26 (2), March 29, No- 

 vember 5, 1911, and August 29 and December 24, 1911. 



360. Dendroica erithachorides Baird. Panama Yellow Warbler. 



Four males, Mt. Hope, February 9 and August 31, 1913, and Toro 

 Point, July 23 and October 1, 1911. Iris black, bill and feet olive- 

 l)rown. 



In bushes along the shore. 



*361. Oporornis formosus (Wilson). Kentucky Warbler, 



Female, Gatun, February 22, 1911. 



*362. Oporornis Philadelphia (Wilson). Mourning Warbler. 



Male and female, Gatun, April 7 and 14, 1912. (Male not in the 

 collection.) 



[363.] Oporornis tolmiei (Townsend). McGillivray's Warbler. 

 *364. Seiuru.s aurocapillus (Linnseus). Ovenbird. 



Female, Gatun, November 26, 1911. 



*[365.] Seiurus motacilla (Vieillot). Louisiana Water Thrush. 



*366. Seiurus noveboracensis noveboracensis (Gmelin). Water Thrush. 



Male, Gatun, March 29, 1911; female, Gatun, April 14, 1911. 

 Found regularly all winter. 



*367. Wilsonia canadensis (Linnasus). Canada Warbler. 



Male, Gatun, April 28, 1912. 



*[368.] Wilsonia citrina (Boddaert). Hooded Warbler. 

 *369. Setophaga ruticilla (Linnseus). Redstart. 



Three males, Gatun, March 26 and November 26, 1911, April 28, 

 1912; female, Gatun, April 14, 1912. 



370. Basileuterus rufifrons mesochrysus (Sclater). Sclater's Warbler. 



Male and an unsexed specimen, Gatun, April 7, 1912, and Pedro 

 Miguel, April 23, 1911. Iris brown, bill fuscous, feet light flesh-color. 



371. Basileuterus semicervinus veraguensis (Sharpe). Buff-rumped Warbler. 



Female, Rio Siri, March 31, 1912. Iris brown, bill blackish. 



Frequents river banks and overhanging tree-roots. Flits its 

 wings like a Kinglet (Regulus), flashing its bright rump. Has a beau- 

 tiful clear ringing song, somewhat like that of the Ovenbird (Seiurus 

 awocajnllus), but more striking because the crescendo rises higher. 

 The bird also walks like an Ovenbird and feeds along the water's edge 

 like a Water Thrush (S. vovehoracensis). 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



FRINGILLID^. 



*[372.] Zamelodia ludoviciana (Linnaeus). Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



373. Cyanocompsa concreta cyanescens Ridgway. Panama Blue Grosbeak. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, July 30, 1911; August 11, 1912; 

 June 18, 1911. Iris brown, bill bluish-horn color, feet black. 



Nest a frail cup of fine twigs lined with vine tendrils in crotch of 

 bush five feet up in a thicket. Eggs two, bluish-w^hite, wreathed 

 heavily at the larger end with reddish and purplish brown, .82 x .71 in. 



A bird of thickets and heavy forest. 



374. Oryzoborus funereus Solater. Lesser Rice Grosbeak. 



Male, Ft. Lorenzo, June 21, 1911. 

 Associates with the next. 



375. Sporophila aurita (Bonaparte). Hicks' Seedeater. 



Three males and three females, Gatun, March 22, April 13, De- 

 cember 24, 1911; June 25, 1911, June 2 and August 11, 1912. Iris 

 brown, bill blackish-horn, feet gray-brown. 



Nest a thin-walled cup, made entirely of fine reddish-brown tendrils, 

 situated in the terminal twigs of a small sapling, fifteen feet from the 

 ground. Eggs two, heavily incubated (June 25), white, very heavily 

 marked all over with brown and with some wash of lavender at the 

 larger end, .66 x .51 in. Another nest August 11, 1912, contained two 

 eggs nearly fresh, .69 x .53 and .70 x .53 in. 



Occurs in flocks of a dozen feeding on seeds in grass and shrubbery 

 in open places and in second growth. 



[376.] Sporophila grisea schistacea (Lawrence). Slate-colored Seedeater. 

 [377.] Sporophila minuta minuta (Linnaeus). Minute Seedeater. 

 [378.] Sporophila gutturalis (Lichtenstein). Yellow-bellied Seedeater. 



379. Tiaris olivacea pusilla (Swainson). Mexican Grassquit. 



j\Iale and female, Gatun, December 24, 1911, and April 7, 1912. 

 Iris brown, bill horn-brown, feet gray-brown. 

 Common in second growth. 



380. Volatinia jacarini splendens (Vieillot). Blue-black Grassquit. 



Three males and two females, March 22 and November 26, 1911, 

 July 21, 1912; April 13 and December 24, 1911. Iris black, bill black 

 above bluish below, feet blue-black. 



Flocks with Sporophila aurita. 



Nest (July 21, 1912) in clump of weeds, two feet from the ground, a 

 frail thin-walled cup of fine vine tendrils or rootlets. Eggs two, fresh, 

 pale bluish or greenish-white heavily spotted with brown, lavender 

 and burnt umber, denser at the larger end, .69 x .51. and .68 x .51 in, 



[381.] Amaurospiza concolor Cabanis. Cabanis' Seedeater. 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Juiie-Oct., 



382. Pitylus grossus (Linnseus). Slate-colored Grosbeak. 



Male, Gatun, June 25, 1911. Iris dark brown, bill salmon-pink, 

 tarsi dull black. 



Found in clearing in the forest. 



[383.] Caryothraustes poliogaster scapularis Ridgway. Lesser Bishop Grosbeak. 



384. Saltator magnoides intermedius (Lawrence). Panama Buff-throated Saltator. 



Female, Gatun, April 30, 1911. Iris greenish-brown, bill black, 

 feet fuscous. 



Nest (April 30) in shrubbery in clearing two feet up, a bulky com- 

 pact cup set on a light base of sticks, made of strips of banana leaves 

 and plant bark and lined with brown rootlets and vine tendrils. 

 Eggs two, neaily fresh, blue with a few spots of black in a wreath near 

 the larger end, .72 x 1.03 and .75 x 1.01 ins. 



A common species in thickets adjoining the forest; very quiet. 



385. Saltator atriceps lacertosus Bangs. Panama Black-headed Saltator. 



Female, Agua Clara, March 12, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet 

 grayish-horn color. 



A fairly common species. Has a loud and peculiarly harsh call. 



Nest (April 30) three feet up in a shrub grown over with vines, a 

 rather small open cup. Eggs two, bluish-green wreathed with black 

 at the larger end, 1.13 x .76 and 1.12 x .79 ins. Another nest in 

 same sort of situation (March 24, 1912), made of weed stalks and 

 tendrils, contained two fresh eggs, 1.07 x .76 and 1.06 x .75 ins. 



386. Saltator albicollis isthmicus (Sclater). Panama Streaked Saltator. 



A male, Pedro Miguel, May 5, 1912, and female, Taberniha, April 

 18, 1911. Iris gray-brown, l)ill black, feet pale brown. 



f387.] Astragalinus psaltria croceus (Jouy). Central American Goldfinch. 

 *388. Spiza americana (Gmelin). Dickcissel. 



Male and two unsexed specimens, Gatun, June 16, March 16 and 

 February 18, 1912; male, Miraflores, March 5, 1911, and female, 

 Mindi, October 15, 1911. 



March 16, a flock was seen along the river l^ank; the others were 

 alone. 



389. Arremonops conirostris conirostris (Bonaparte). Lafresnaye's Sparrow. 



Male, Gatun, April 18, 1911; female, Ft. Lorenzo, June 11, 1911. 

 Iris light brown, bill black lighter below, feet gray-brown. 



Nest (April 18) in a tussock of grass against a stump about a foot 

 from the ground, an open cup of dead leaves, strips of bark and weed 

 stalks lined with light-brown rootlets. Eggs two, plain white, .71 x 

 .93 and .72 x .93 in. Two other nests (June 2 and June 11) were 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 277 



found, but of same materials, one in a shrub six feet from the ground. 

 Eggs, two in each, were fresh; those in the latter one were larger, 1.06 

 X .72 and 1.05 x .74 ins. 



190. Arremon aurantiirostris Lafresnaye. Orange-billed Sparrow. 



Male, Gatun, August 27, 1911. Iris brown, bill salmon-red, feet 

 pale brown. 



Found in the forest. 



CCEREBIDuE. 



891. Coereba mexicana (Sclater). Mexican Banana-quit. 



Three males, Gatun, April 4, June 25 and November 3, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill and feet black. 



In thickets and second growth. 



392. Dacnis cayana ultramarina (Lawrence). Ultramarine Dacnis. 



Two males and two females, Gatun, June 4, November 26, 1911, 

 and July 2, 1911, April 7, 1912. Iris reddish-brown, bill dull black 

 above paler below, feet light brown. 



Found in the jungle as well as in groves. 



893. Cyanerpes cyaneus (Linnaeus). Blue Honey-Creeper. 



Two males and a female, Gatun, July 2, 1911, April 14, 1912, and 

 December 24, 1911. Iris brown, bill black, feet red. 

 Common in second growth. 



[394.] Cyanerpes lucidus (Sclater and Salvin). Shining Honey-Creeper. 



395. Chlorophanes spiza guatemalensis (Sclater). Northern Green Hone}--Creeper. 



Female, Gatun, June 4, 1911. Iris brown, bill black lighter below, 



feet bluish-gray. 



TANAGRID^. 



396. Tanagra crassirostris (Sclater). Thick-billed Euphonia. 



Two males, Gatun, November 3, 1911, and April 4, 1912; male and 

 female, Mindi, October 22 and September 17, 1911; male, Toro Point, 

 March 3, 1912, and male, Mt. Hope, June 1, 1913. Iris brown, max- 

 illa black with a bluish spot on each side, mandible bluish-gray, feet 

 dark gray. 



Seen frequently in second growth and in trees in open ground. 



[397.] Tanagra fulvicrissa (Sclater). Fulvous- vented Euphonia. 



[398.] Tanagra luteicapilla (Cabanis). Yellow-crowned Euphonia. ■ 



[399.] Tanagra minuta humilis (Cabanis) . White- vented Euphonia. 



400. Tangara larvata fanny (Lafresnaye). Mrs. Wilson's Tanager. 



Male, Mindi, October 15, 1911, and female, Gatun, April 30, 1911. 

 Iris brown, bill black, feet blue-black. 

 Usually seen on the edge of the jungle. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



401. Tangara inornata (Gould). Plain-colored Tanager. 



Male and female, Gatun, April 7, 1912, and May 30, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill black blue-gray below, feet blue-gray. 

 Found on the edge of the jungle. 



[402.] Tangara gyroloides (Lafresnaye). Blue-rumped Green Tanager. ^ 



[403.] Tangara lavinia (Cassin). Lavinia's Tanager. 



404. Thraupis cana cana (Swainson). Blue Tanager. 



Two females, Toro Point, April 2, 1911, and also taken at Gatun, 

 March 2, 1911. Iris brown, bill black above blue-gray below, feet 

 dark grayish-blue. 



A fairly abundant bird in thickets and cocoanut groves. 



405. Thraupis palmarum melanoptera (Solater). Black-winged Tanager. 



Three males, Gatun, March 2, 1913; Toro Point, July 23, 1911, and 

 Ft. Lorenzo, January 7, 1912. 

 Found in cocoanut groves. 



[406.] Ramphocelus luciani Lafresnaj'e. Bonaparte's Tanager. 



407. Ramphocelus icteronotus Bonaparte. Yellow-rumped Tanager. 



Male and female, Gatun, Fel^ruary 12, and a female, Gatun, April 

 30, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, bill light blue with dark edges and tip, 

 feet 'dark blue. 



Common in thickets along the edge of the jungle. ' 

 Nest five feet up in clump of shrubbery, a very compact cup, made 

 of vines on the outside, dead leaves, plant fibers and finally a lining of 

 brown and black rootlets. Eggs two, nearly fresh (April 30), blue 

 with heavy blackish blotches on large end forming a cap, .67 x .93 in. 

 Another nest (May 14) exactly the same, with the same sort of vine 

 wrapped around the outside. Eggs two, fresh, .73 x .95 in., blue, with 

 black spots more scattered. 



408. Ramphocelus dimidiatus isthmicus Ridgway. Panama Crimson-backed Tanager. 



Three males, Mindi, September 17, 1911; Tabernilla, March 19, 

 1911, and Gatun, April 5, 1912; two females Ft. Lorenzo, June 21, 

 1911, and Miraflores, March 5, 1911. Iris reddish-brown, bill black 

 above, mandible white for basal two-thirds (uniform dusky in female), 

 feet black. 



A fairly common species in thickets. 

 -» Nest a frail shallow cup, made of strips of plant bark and dead 

 leaves, lined with finer grass stalks and a few black hairs, ten feet up 

 in a l^ush. Eggs two (June 11), blue, with irregular spots and scrawls 

 of black about the larger end, one much more extensively spotted than 

 the other, .96 x .66 and .96 x .69 in. Another nest (March 3, 1912) 

 at Toro Point contained two fresh eggs, .94 x .70 in. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



*[409.] Piranga rubra rubra (Linnseus). Summer Tanager. 

 *[410.] Piranga erythromelas (Vieillot). Scarlet Tanager. 

 411. Phoenicothraupis fuscicauda Cabanis. Dusky-tailed Ant-Tanager. 



Two males, Gatun, May 30, 1911, and January 21, 1912; two others, 

 Agua Clara, March 12, 1911, and Mt. Hope, June 1, 1913; two fe- 

 males, Gatun, ]May 14, 1911, and Agua Clara, March 12, 1911. Iris 

 brown, bill black (brown in female), feet gray suffused with pink. 



Found in thickets and in the jungle. It has a guttural scolding 

 note somewhat similar to that of a wren but with more volume. 



Nest in a cluster of orchids on a vine eight feet up; a cup made of 

 dead leaves wound tightly with green vines and lined with brown 

 rootlets. Two fresh eggs (May 14), glossy white^ .66 x 1.01 and .65 x 

 .95 ins. 



Stomach of one of the birds contained many insects, a few seeds 

 and a small snake. 



[412.] Heterospingus rubrifrons (Lawrence). Lawrence's Tanager. 



413. Tachyphonus rufus (Boddaert). Boddaert's Tanager. 



Male and female, Tabernilla, April 8, 1911, and female, Gatun, 

 May 7, 1911. Iris brown, bill and feet bluish. 



Nest (May 7) in a clump of leaves of wild banana two feet from the 

 ground. Eggs two, .70 x .94 and .71 x .96 in., gray spotted and scrawled 

 with black very much like those of Agelaius phoeniceus. 



414. Tachyphonus luctuosus Lafresnaye and D'Orbignj-. White-shouldered Tanager. 



Male, Gatun, February 11, 1912. Iris grayish-brown, bill black 

 with wedge-shaped blue spot on the sides, tarsi blackish-slate. 



[415.] Tachyphonus delatrii Lafresnaye. Tawny-crested Tanager. 

 416. Eucometis cristata (DuBus). Gray-crested Tanager. 



Two males, Gatun, February 5 and July 9, 1911, and an unsexed 

 specimen, March 3, 1912. Iris reddish-brown, l)ill black, feet flesh 

 color. 



Found in thick undergrowth of jungle. 



Nest a loosely built cup, formed entirely of slender round fibers and 

 very fine reddish-brown tendrils, situated in a bush. Two eggs,, 

 partly incubated (July 9), gray, heavily marked with blotches and 

 smears of smoky-brown and blackish, .94 x .70 and .92 x .69 in. 



[417.] Mitrospingus cassini Lawrence. Cassin's Tanager. 



418. Rhodinocichla rosea eximia Ridgway. Panama Thrush Tanager. 



Two males, Tabernilla, March 19, 1911, and Pedro Miguel, ]\Iay 5, 

 1912; female, Mt. Hope, February 20, 1913. Iri- light brown, bill 

 blue-gray dusky at base, feet bluish-black. 



Found in thickets. Song very striking; a loud clear whistle of two 




280 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [June-Oct., 



notes or syllables, repeated several times. More often two birds near 

 together sing at the same time, but in a different pitch, as if one song 

 was an accompaniment to the other. 



I follow Dr. Hubert Lyman Clark in placing this bird in the 

 Tanagridse and have altered Mr. Ridgway's vernacular name "Thrush 

 Warbler" as suggested by Dr. Clark (cf. The Auk, 1913, p. 11). 



ICTERID^. 



[419.] Zarhynchus wagleri wagleri (Gray). Wagler's Oropendula. 

 [420.] Gymnostinops montezuma (Lesson). Montezuma Oropendula. 

 [421.] Cacicus microrhynchus (Sclater and Salvin). Small-billed Cacique. 



422. Cacicus vitellinus Lawrence. Lawrence's Cacique. 



Male, near Agua Clara on the Trinidad River, March 12, 1911. 

 Iris bright blue, bill light lemon-yellow, feet black. 



One of a flock that were building nests in a fair-sized tree on the 

 river bank. Many nests were under way, but none advanced enough 

 to judge of their size. 



423. Cassidix orizivora violea Bangs. Colombian Rice Grackle. 



Female, Gatun Lake, July 16, 1911. Iris buffy-yellow, bill and 

 feet black. 



Shot from a tree top; was alone. 



*[424.] Dolichonyx oryzivorus (Linnaeus). Bobolink. 

 425. Amblycercus holosericeus (Lichtenstein). Provost's Cacique. 



Female, Gatun, February 5, 1911. Iris very light yellowish- 

 brown, bill light greeni.sh-yellow, feet bluish-gray. 

 An inhabitant of the jungle. 



[426.] Leistes militaris (Linnaeus). Red-breasted Blackbird. 

 *[427.] Icterus spurius (Linnaeus). Orchard Oriole. 

 *[428.] Icterus galbula (Linnaeus). Baltimore Oriole. 



[429.] Icterus giraudii Cassin. Giraud's Oriole. 



430. Icterus mesomelas salvinii (Cassin). Salvin's Oriole. 



Three males, Gatun, February 18 (2) and 22, 1912; two females, 

 Gatun, May 14 and 28, 1911, and a male, Toro Point, August 4, 1912. 

 Iris brown, bill bluish-gray darker on culmen, feet grayish-blue. 



Found in wild banana thickets and in trees. 



[431-1 Megaquiscalus major macrourus (Swainson). Great-tailed Grackle. 



CORVID^. 

 432. Cyanocorax affinis zeledoni Ridgway. Talamanca Jay. 



Male, Gatun, January 1, 1912; another not in the collection was 

 secured August 13, 1911, at the same place. 



Found in the forest in small flocks, shy and hard to approach. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1918. 



PLATE I. 



34 35 



REHN. ORTHOPTERA FROM PARA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1918. 



PLATE 11. 



REHN ORTHOPTERA FROM PARA. 





1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



November 19. 

 Thomas H. Fenton, M. D., in the Chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



The Piibhcation Committee reported the presentation of papers 

 under the following titles for publication in the Proceedings: — - 



"On the generic position of Sonorella wolcottiana," by H. A. 

 Pilsbry (April 30, 1918). 



"A new Characin from Paraguay," by Henry W. Fowler (May 2, 

 1918). 



"Two New Shells from Haiti," by E. G. Vanatta (July 1, 1918). 



"Birds of the Panama Canal Zone, with special reference to a 

 collection made by Mr. Lindsey L. Jewel," by Witmer Stone (October 

 10, 1918). 



"Mollusca of the Southwestern States. IX, The Santa Catalina, 

 Rincon, Tortillita and Galiuro Mountains. X, The Mountains of 

 the Gila Headwaters," by Henry A. Pilsbry and James H. Ferriss 

 (November 8, 1918). 



A paper entitled "The Northeastern Florida Coast Revisited," 

 by Clarence B. Moore, was presented May 6, 1918, for publication 

 in the Journal, completing the sixteenth volume of the second series. 



The deaths of the following members were announced : — 



Frank Miles Day, 



William F. Dreer, 



Theodore H. Conderman, 



Isaac Norris, M. D., 



William F. DuBois. 



The following was ordered to be published : 



20 




282 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



MOLLUSCA OF THE SOUTHWESTERN STATES— IX, THE SANTA CATALINA, RIN- 

 CON, TORTILLITA AND GALIURO MOUNTAINS. X, THE MOUNTAINS OF 

 THE GILA HEADWATERS. 



BY HENRY A. PILSBRY AND JAS. H. FERRISS.^ 



The Santa Catalina, in Pima County, north of Tucson, is one of 

 the large ranges of Southern Arizona, about forty-five miles in length, 

 including its Tanque Vercle and Rincon outliers, with an extreme 

 width of twenty-five miles. Mount Lemon with an elevation of 

 9,150 feet is heavily forested with yellow pine, quaking asp, cork 

 bark fir (Abies arizonica), Douglas spruce (Pseudotsuga mucronata), 

 cypress (Cupressus arizonica), other coniferous trees, large oaks 

 and an alder as tall as a pine. The male fern and the brake stand 

 here four feet in height. The Douglas spruce are eight feet in diam- 

 eter. There is a forest gloom at mid-day, and a ground covering 

 indicating a timber growth of many years without interruption by 

 fires or lumbering. Winter often brings ten feet of snow. With 

 numerous trout streams, it has the attractions, summer and winter, 

 of the deep forests along the Canadian border without their annoying 

 insects. 



In quantity and number of species of the smaller snails the north 

 slope of Mount Lemon has the best record so far. The odor- 

 shooting, rough-coated Sonorella also is here in large numbers under 

 the fallen bark of the Douglas spruce and the dead poles of the quak- 

 ing asp and cork bark fir. Unlike his brethren with a polished coat, 

 this snail seeks food and cover similar to those used by the Polygyras 

 of timbered areas in the Mississippi valley and eastward. 



The humid forest conditions of the region around Lemon Mountain 

 prevail at Soldier Camp, Kellogg's Peak, Alder Canyon, Alder 

 Springs. The Spud Rock Ranger Station and other high peaks of the 

 Rincon section, except in lacking cork bark fir, also follow Mount 

 Lemon closely in forest conditions. They have the large oaks and 

 conifers, the quaking asp, and the heavy floor of humus underfoot, 

 but not quite as many snails. 



In the valleys of Bear Wallow and Sabino creeks, at the heart of 

 the Santa Catalinas, the Arizonians of lower and hotter levels have 



1 The field work covered by this report was by Ferriss, assisted in the Blue 

 River region and the MogoUon Mountains by the late L. E. Daniels. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



built villages of summer cottages. It is about a full day's journey 

 from Tucson on horseback. A small saw mill furnishes building 

 material for this summer society, for a sanitarium now under con- 

 struction and for the copper mines over the ridge at the foot of Marble 

 Peak. 



Except in the vallej^ of the San Pedro river and the village of 

 Oracle onty a few miners, ranch men and forest rangers are to be 

 found in all this group of ranges. There are more bears and mountain 

 lions than people. 



The southern slopes of the Catalinas, the foot hills and mesas, and 

 the Galiuro and Tortillita ranges are not heavily forested. At best 

 it is low, open woods or desert shrubbery, through which the granite 

 rocks and precipices glisten in the sun. The soil is dry, though 

 often covered with fallen leaves and growing vegetation. A few 

 Sonorellas and some of the smaller snails may be found at all alti- 

 tudes in the rock slides, the talus, on all sides of the mountain, and 

 in any kind of rock, especially smooth and stratified rock; sometimes 

 also under fallen timber, or in small piles of boulders. 



In the dry season, among dry and hot rocks, dead shells will be 

 the rule. Here one must dig a full eight hour day for a live one. 

 We find a two-foot bar of half inch octagonal steel very helpful. 

 The bar should have a two-inch chisel edge flattened out at each end, 

 one of these turned at a right angle like a hoe. It will weigh one and 

 three-quarter pounds; a good digger, a jimmy for rock work, and a 

 helpful staff in steep and rough places. 



Sonorella is something of a rambler, more*so than Ashmunella or 

 Oreohelix, and upon damp days scouts may be met out in the fallen 

 leaves far from their rocky homes. Often single, dead, lie along the 

 trails where there is no shelter in the vicinity for snail kind. In 1913, 

 on the south side of the Santa Catalinas in the dry season, day after 

 day but one or two living Sonorellas were found. It was the same 

 about Brush Corral Ranger Station, on the north side, in the rocky 

 slides of the canyons nearly on a level with the river. In one of 

 these slides of three or more feet in depth, three hundred good 

 "bones" were found but none alive. It was also the same kind of 

 collecting in the Gahuros and the Tortillitas in the winter of 1917-18. 



A small deep slide of "porphyry" or shale, shaded partially with 

 rose bushes, elder or gooseberry bushes, makes an ideal home for the 

 Southwestern snails. 



The Galiuro range, in Graham County, and the Tortillita range, 

 in Pinal County, as yet unsurveyed, seem to have an elevation of 




284 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-DeC.^ 



about 7,000 or 8,000 feet, granite or other igneous rock prevailing, 

 and with but a little timber. A few ledges of sharp-pointed limestone, 

 dolomite probably, had no attraction for the snails. The entire 

 region at present is inaccessible except to horsemen and pedestrians 

 and these should carry their own food and shelter. We did, and 

 lived like kings before the war. 



One of us (Ferriss) collected a few days, less than a week, in the 

 Santa Catalinas, Mount Lemon and Soldier Camp, in 1910; again 

 much of the time from May to October in 1913, on the southern 

 slope, around Mount Lemon, Soldier Camp, IVIarble Peak and on the 

 northern mesa, about Brush Corral. Again a month was spent in 

 1917, at Sabino Basin, Bear Creek, and Brush Corral, the Rincon 

 Peaks and the Galiuros. The guide, Frank Cole, on a hunting trip, 

 brought in Sonorellas from the Tortillitas and from the Canada del 

 Oro section of the Santa Catalinas. Many inviting prospects in 

 these mountains remain neglected. They surely contain species 

 still unknown. 



Life is rapid in snaildom, decay a slow i^rocess in an arid climate; 

 and possibly these fat cemeteries in the basements of Sonorella 

 slides merely represent the natural death rate of many years. It 

 may be that one living inhabitant to one hundred skeletons is the 

 right proportion. However an impression grows upon the collector 

 as he digs in the arid foothills, that in earlier times there were periods 

 or seasons more favorable to snail life — seasons with more moisture, 

 more vegetation, and a deeper humus. The steep mountain gulches 

 with walls on either side thrown above the surrounding surface quite 

 plainly speak of days when the floods were greater than any known 

 in modern times. These boulder bulwarks contain potsherds and 

 other evidence of human occupation; also Sonorellas. As collecting 

 grounds they are often preferable to the large slides farther up the 

 mountain. Among these boulders, in the hot sunlight, we found 

 the largest Sonorella. Measured crudely in the field it had a diameter 

 of 33 millimeters. 



In collecting Sonorellas and Oreohelices from arid to humid zones 

 in the same canj^on or mountain, one gets the impression that the 

 differences of size are mainly a matter of the breed; that they are 

 racial, rather than due to length of growing season, supply of food or 

 climatic comforts. We naturally search ideal environments of 

 food, shade and shelter for robust races, and expect to meet the 

 pigmy forms in hot, dry and barren places. Often what we find is 

 the reverse of this. On one climb in 1918, at Kitt's Peak, a large 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



and robust Sonorella was found at a low elevation in a barrier of 

 boulders, so dry and barren the snails would necessarily lie dormant 

 a large part of the year. At a thousand feet higher, beside a stream 

 of running water, came in a much smaller breed; and, 1500 feet 

 above number two, with an ideal situation as to a moist atmosphere, 

 food, shelter and snail comfort, lived a pigmy Sonorella of about 12 

 millimeters in diameter. 



Again on the Kaibab Plateau in 1909, every colony of Oreohelix 

 Mrigosa depressa seemed a little different from all other colonies. 

 At Two Spring Can^yon with running water all the way, the pigmies 

 were at the higher station in a grove of quaking asp. Every colony 

 increased in size and color brilliance at a regular pace down the 

 canj^on. Here seemed proof positive of the advantage of a longer 

 growing season. Over the ridge in Snake Gulch the order was re- 

 versed, for the larger shells were at the top in a dry situation, and 

 their size seemingly decreased in proportion to the mileage as we 

 descended along a running stream. In Jacobs Canyon, running 

 parallel to Snake Gulch, dry all the way, the large and gaudy shells 

 Avere midway, the smaller and paler above and below. Food condi- 

 tions may have had some influence in the development of these 

 races but if so the evidence was not apparent. In the field we meet 

 contradictions continually beyond our understanding, but perhaps 

 we may have a better comprehension before the survey of the South- 

 west is completed. 



HELIOID^. 



Sonorella odorata n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 1 to 4. 



The shell is depressed, umbihcate, the umbilicus contained about 

 7| times in the diameter of shell; buffy-citrine below, somewhat 

 lighter than Isabella color above, with a chestnut brown band at the 

 shoulder. The first half whorl has irregular radial wrinkles soon 

 passing into a low granulation, the last embryonic whorl granular, 

 over which there are close decurrent threads, interrupted into short 

 dashes on the upper part of the whorl. Subsequent whorls are 

 very minutely granular, somewhat dull, the granulation effaced at 

 the base, which is more glossy. The last whorl shows also numerous 

 faint spiral striae. The whorls are quite convex, the early ones 

 increasing slowly, the last widening rapidly, rather abruptly descend- 

 ing close to the aperture. The aperture is elliptical-lunate; peristome 

 is narrowly expanded throughout, dilated at the columellar insertion. 



Alt. 11.4, diam. 19.5 mm.; 4^ whorls (type). 

 " 13.4, '' 23.3 " 4f " (Station 18, 1917). 

 " 13.2, " 22 " (Station 18, 1917). 




286 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DcC, 



Fig. 1. Genitalia of S. odorata. a, No. 119,032; b, penis-papilla of same 

 much enlarged; c, No. 119,035, with detail of penis-papilla; d, No. 119,034. 



The sole is tripartite in color, the side areas being somewhat darker. 

 The back and head are quite dark in most alcoholic specimens, black 

 in life, the tips of the tubercles lighter. 



The penis is small, containing a cylindric papilla with rounded 

 end, about two-thirds as long as the penis. The penial retractor is 

 inserted upon the epiphallus not far from its base. The flagellum 

 is present as a very minute but distinct bud in most of the specimens 

 opened, but in two it was not seen though looked for. In the speci- 

 men No. 119,032 (figs, la, 6,), the male organs are evidently not fully 

 developed, the penis and epiphallus being small and short, while 

 the retractor muscle is correspondingly longer, making the total 

 length about normal, the individual being of full size though not 

 adult. Measurements of the organs in mm. follow: 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



287 



Santa Catalinas above 7500 ft.: Mt. Lemon, Stations 5 and 6 

 (1911), 32 and 37 (1913), on the trail to Webber's and other places. 

 Soldier Camp, Bear Wallow, Head of Alder Canyon (type loc, No. 

 119,033). Kellogg Peak, southeastern side. 



Rincons at station 22, Spud Rock Ranger Station, and Station 

 20, on the north slope. 



It lives in deep humid forest in colonies, as our eastern helices do, 

 under logs and bark of quaking asp and Arizona fir, sometimes by 

 dozens. Only at Spud Rock it was found deep in rocks, also humid. 

 It is a timber snail of the Canadian zone forest. In general aspect 

 the shell reminds one of the Calif ornian helices. 



This is a common snail in the heavily wooded upper levels of the 

 Santa CataUnas, taken at many stations. When picked up it emits 

 a strong unpleasant odor recalling that of the goldenrod of Thunder- 

 head mountain in East Tennessee (probabl}^ Solidago odora). This 

 was first noticed at Kellogg Peak. When picked up the snail shot 

 out two or three drops of liquid six inches or more (evidently ex- 

 pelled from the lung as the foot is retracted). One often smelled 

 them before finding any. But three or four shells broken by mice 

 or squirrels were noticed in the course of collecting, and it may be 

 that the snail-eaters object to the smell. 



By the genitalia this species is related to S. clappi of the Santa 

 Rita range, and S. ferrissi of the Dragoons, though differing from 

 iDoth in several details. The shell is most like S. clappi. It differs 

 from other Santa Catalina species by the minute granulation of the 

 surface, which gives it a dull, silky luster. 



The color is rather variable. At Soldier Camp (Fig. 4), Canada 



2 Specimen not fully mature. 




288 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV-DeC. 



del Oro and some other places the general hue is cinnamon or cin- 

 namon-buff, opaque, and the size small, diam. 18 to 20 mm. The 

 smallest adult seen measures 17 mm. in diameter. 



Specimens from the Rincons, Station 22 (1917), are pale cinnamon 

 or greenish above, fading to a pale, bluish-gray on the base, the 

 band with narrow, indistinct paler borders or without them. The 

 lip is conspicuously brown-edged. The umbilicus is generally 

 wider than in the Catalina shells. One perfect shell and another 

 broken one in this lot are albinos, or at least the tint is very pale, 

 and there is no band. These shells are found deep in a rock slide in 

 a quaking asp thicket. At Station 20 (1917), on the northern slope 

 of the Rincons, two dead but fresh shells were found in a day's search. 



Sonorella odorata marmoris n. subsp. PI. III., figs. G to Cb. 



The shell is more solid than S. odorata, opaque; cinnamon, paler 

 around the umbilicus and on both sides of the chestnut-brown band. 

 Last whorl is decidedly more depressed than in S. odorata, and is 

 narrower as viewed from above. The umbilicus is wider. The 

 aperture is much smaller. 



Alt. 10.4, diam. 20 mm.; 4| whorls (type). 



9, 



18 



4i 



Fig. 2. Genitalia of S. o. marmoris, No. 109,079, with detail of penis-papilla. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Marble Peak, on the east side above 

 the rock slide; old Dan's Gulch on the northwest side, type loc; 

 ridge running toward Mt. Lemon; Ferriss 1911 and 1913. Type No. 

 109,075 A. N. S. P.; paratypes 109,075a, also in Ferriss collection. 



Genitalia (fig. 2) in general similar to S. odorata but the penis and 

 papilla are decidedly longer and there is a flagellum, well developed 

 for a Sonorella. Measurements of the organs are given in the table 

 on page 287. 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



289 



It lives in relatively dry rock slides, with the smooth SonoreUa 

 marmorarius, high on ]\Iarble Peak and its flanks, thus differing in 

 habits from ^S. odorata. The shell is readily separable from odorata, 

 and perhaps it should be considered a separate species. It has the 

 same peculiar odor. 



SonoreUa sabinoensis n. sp. PI. IV, figs. 1 to 5d. 



. The shell is rather narrowly umbilicate (width of umbilicus con- 

 tained 8 times in that of shell in the type specimen), rather soUd; 

 cinnamon-buff, broadly zoned with white (or whitish) on both sides 

 of the chestnut-brown band above the periphery. The surface is 

 glossy; embryonic whorls having the usual sculpture of the hachifana 

 group, granular, with divaricating protractive threads below and 

 retractive above; subsequent whorls delicately marked with growth- 

 lines. Suture descends moderately in front. The aperture is large, 

 oblique, rotund-oval. Peristome narrowly expanded, dilated at the 

 umbilical insertion. 



Alt. 12, diam. 21.2 mm.; aperture 12x13 mm.; 4| whorls. 



Santa Catalina mountains, Arizona, in Sabino canyon (type loc. 

 Station 16, 1913) and its tributaries. Sycamore canyon and Mt. 

 Lemon Fork, from about 3000 to 6000 feet elevation. Also Rock 

 and Vantana canyons, west of Sabino, and Bear canyon eastward. 



It is a species of the dry, sun-baked rock-slides, living ones found 

 only deep in the crevices, in the lower levels of desert vegetation. 

 The Sabino Basin, Sycamore and Bear canyon localities are below 

 the pine belt, in arid country, with some oak, juniper and sj'camore. 

 The species is not known to occur in the humid upper forest. 



Genitalia (fig. 3, a-d) resembling those organs in S. marmorarius. 

 The penis is thin, not swollen basally. The penis-papilla is slender 

 and corrugated, as in the other species, and nearly as long as the penis 

 (fig. 3a). The flagellum is either minute or wanting. 



Type, fijj;. 3r. 



Fig. 3(/. 



Fig. 3a, h. 



Shells from the type station measure from 20 to 24 mm. diameter. 

 The relative size of the aperture also varies within rather wide limits. 

 In the type specimen (pi. IV, figs. 2-26) the width of aperture is con- 




290 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-Dec.^ 



tained about 1.63 times in that of the shell, and in another locotype 

 (pi. IV, figs. 3-36) it is contained nearly 1.8 times. In the smaller 

 mouthed individuals the umbilicus is somewhat larger and less 

 covered, and the last whorl, viewed from above, is not so wide. We 

 have tried in vain to use these characters for a separation of the 

 series (some hundreds of shells); but while the extremes in size 

 of aperture appear quite distinct, the distinction could not be carried 

 through, as nearly every station supplied individuals with large, 

 intermediate and small apertures. 



The specimens from low in Sabino canyon usually have more 

 solid, thicker shells than those from higher; but this is not always 

 the case. 



It is a species of the arid mountains, confined to lower elevations 

 than S. marmorarius. 



Fig. 3. Sonorella sabinoensis, Sabino Canvon, genitalia, a, b, No. 109,098; c. 

 No. 109,097; d, No. 109,094. 



The smallest shells, diam. 19 mm., were found at Station 15, low 

 in Sabino canyon (about 4,000 ft.); but others up to 25 mm. diam. 

 occur in the same place. The largest, 27 mm. diam. are from 

 Station 9, 1913, the bluffs opposite Station 15. One of this lot is 

 figured, pi. IV, figs. 4-46. 



The degree of depression is variable in the same lot. Specimens 

 selected from a station on Vantana canyon measure: 



Alt. 14.5 diam. 20, mm. (largest). 

 " 13.2 " 25, " (most depressed). 



" 16.4 " 24.8, '' ( " elevated). 

 . " 12.2 " 20, " (smallest). 



Figures 5 to od are depressed and elevated shells from Bear canyon. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



291 



Sonorella sabinoensis occidentalis n. subsp. PI. V, figs. 1 to 16. 



The shell appears indistinguishable from *S. sabinoensis. 

 Alt. 16, diam. 28 mm.; 5 whorls. 



This form is separated from S. sabinoensis solely on account of 

 the difference in the penis, which is enlarged at the base in occi- 

 dentalis, slender in sabinoensis. While the Pima canyon shells are 

 distinguishable from the large-mouthed typical forms of sabinoeiisis, 

 we can find no difference in the sabinoensis with slightly smaller 

 aperture, such as those from Sabino canyon Station 9 (which agree 

 in genitalia with the type of sabinoensis). No specimens with the 

 penis swollen basally were found among the numerous Sabino canyon 

 individuals opened. 



The head and back are hair brown, fading to drab on the sides, 

 the tail and entire sole being dull chamois to dull cream-buff. 



Western end of the Santa Catalinas; type No. 119,491, from Sta- 

 tion 36, east side of Pima canyon. Also on the west side, Station 

 37 (Pusch Ridge); Station 43 (1917), northeast of Sutherland's 

 ranch, in the foothills; Station 45, in the large canyon north ^of 

 Romero canyon (eastward from Sutherland's). 



Fig. 4. Genitalia of *S. s. occidentalis. a, No. 118,052. b, No. 118,045, with detail 

 of penis and papilla at c; d, No. 118,056, canyon north of Romero Canyon. 




292 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



Genitalia (Fig. 4a-(i). The penis is slender except at the base 

 where it is suddenly dilated. Internally there is a short, sinuous 

 fleshy fold and several minor folds in the dilated part of the penis 

 where it passes into the atrium, which also contains several fleshy 

 ridges. The papilla is long, slender and corrugated, Penial re- 

 tractor is terminal and enveloping base of the epiphallus, as usual. 

 The epiphallus is nearly as long as penis, with a slight distal swelling 

 in place of a flagellum. The vagina is shorter than the penis. Meas- 

 urements of the organs in mm. follow: 



The series of 60 specimens from Pima canyon consist chiefly of 

 dead shells. The average size appears to be slightly less in the 

 specimens from the western side of the canyon, forming the eastern 

 slope of Pusch Ridge. 



There are three "dead" specimens from "Pusa Ridge" (? = Pusch 

 Ridge) in the U. S. National Museum, No. 271,011, collected by 

 Barber. The diameter is about 22 mm. 



The specimens from the canyon north of Romero (opening north- 

 westward), Station 45 (1917), have the same range of variation 

 noted in Sabino canyon S. sahinoensis. There are depressed, more 

 openly umbilicate shells, together with smaller, usually less depressed 

 shells with relatively larger aperture and smaller umbilicus, I to 

 5 covered by the expansion of the columellarlip; also a few specimens 

 transitional in these characters. 14 examined. 



Alt. 15.4, diam. 27.3 mm., 4f whorls (largest). 

 " 15.6, " 23 " 4^ " 

 " 14.3 " 22 " (smallest). 



The genitalia do not differ from Pima canyon shells. 



Seven shells from Station 43 (1917) measure: diam. 21, 21.5, 

 23.5, 23.7, 24, 24.4, 24.4 mm. 



All of the localities for this form are in the arid lower zone of the 



range. 



Sonorella sabinoensis buehmanensis n. subsp. PI. V, figs. 2 to 36. 



Typically the shell differs from S. sahinoensis by being more solid 

 and more elevated, only very slightly paler near the shoulder band, 

 and with nearly one whorl more in examples of the same diameter. 




1918.1 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



293 



Alt. 16.7, diam. 25.6 mm.; 5^ whorls (type; Figs. 2-26). 



Buehman canyon, in the eastern part of the Santa Catalina Moun- 

 tains, the type from Station 44 (1913), near the Korn Kobb mine. 

 Also at Stations 41,^Jiead of Sycamore gulch, tributarj^ to Buehman 

 canyon, 42, Buehman canyon at the Brush Corral, and station 43, 

 Buehman canyon a mile below the Brush Corral Ranger Station. 



Fig. ,5. Genitalia of Sonorella sabinoenfiis buehmanensis, No. 109,196. 



There is considerable variation in the shells from Buehman can- 

 yon, in size, degree of elevation and number of whorls; yet unless 

 anatomical differences are found, we consider them all of one race. 

 As yet, only the typical form has been dissected. 



Specimens from Station 41 (1913), from the head of Sycamore 

 Gulch, have the umbilicus slightly more open than in typical bueh- 

 manensis, and the borders of the shoulder-band are paler; thus 

 approaching the larger forms of S. sabinoensis. 



In Stations 42 and 43 the size varies widely, and the smaller 

 specimens have only a fraction of a whorl more than sabinoensis, 

 from which they differ by the smaller aperture. One figured (pi. V, 

 figs. 3-36, Station 43) measures: alt. 13.7, diam. 21 mm. In the same 

 lots the larger shells have a diameter of 25 mm. or slightly more. 



Like other species of the dry lower mountains, living snails are 

 rare. In one rock slide in Buehman Canyon, 360 fairly good "bones" 

 were found, and only 8 living snails. 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-Dac, 



Sonorella hestema n. sp. PI. IV, figs. 6, 6a, 66. 



A long series of dead shells was taken at Station 148 (1917) in a 

 rock slide on the south side of the Tucson-Benson highway, near the 

 cave on Shaw's ranch, southern foothills of the Rincons, at about 

 3,500 feet. They are smaller and more solid than S. rinconensis, 

 and the umbilicus is somewhat smaller. It is more depressed and 

 has a wider umbilicus than S. sabinoensis. In color and surface it 

 resembles the latter species. The freshest shells are between cinnamon 

 and tawny-olive, fading around the umbilicus, white on both sides of 

 the chestnut-brown band. The suture descends rather abruptly to 

 the aperture, but not quite so deeply as in *S. hachitana. 



Alt. 13.5, diam. 22.4 mm. (type). 

 " 14.7, " 25.9 " 



In a series of 37 adult examples, the smallest measures 20.1 mm. 

 in diameter, the largest 25.9 mm. They run as follows: 



Diam. 20-20.9 mm., 4 specimens. 



The station is an extremely arid one. It is a true desert Sonorella. 

 The status of the form is uncertain, but it can scarcely be linked with 

 any of the Santa Catalina or Rincon species, so that, while we do 

 not like to describe a Sonorella without examination of the soft 

 anatomy, there seems nothing else to do in this case. Its status 

 may be revised when living examples come to hand. 



Sonorella marmorarius n. sp. PI. Ill, figs. 0, 9a, 9b. 



The shell is depressed, rather solid, umbilicate (the width of um- 

 bihcus contained about 7 times in that of the shell, suddenly widening 

 at the last whorl to about double its former width); light pinkish 

 cinnamon, paler around the umbilicus, and whitish on both sides 

 of the chestnut-brown band above the periphery. The surface is 

 glossy. Embryonic shell oi IY2 whorls, the last of which is densely, 

 irregularly granular, with indistinct protractive and retractive 

 threads (when unworn), subsequent whorls delicately marked with 

 growth-lines, and under the lens showing some weak spiral impressed 

 lines in places on the upper surface of the last whorl. The suture 

 descends rather deeply in front. Aperture is quite oblique, oval. 

 Peristome expanded throughout, with a gray edge, somewhat 

 thickened within, the margins generally connected by a roughened 

 callous ridge in fully adult shells. 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



295 



Alt. 14 diam. 25 mm.; aperture 11.2x13.6 mm.; 4f whorls. 



Marble Peak, Santa Catalina Mountains, Arizona; type loc. 

 Station 26, 1913, quartzite slide on Marble Peak. Also found at 

 Station 3, 1911, slide above Apache mine; Station 4, 1911, top of 

 ridge south of the Peak; Station 38, 1913, north side of Marble 

 Peak; ''Joliet Cave," and other stations on the same mountain. 



Fig. 6. Genitalia of Sonorella marmorarins, a, No. 109,077; h, c, No. 109,071; 

 d, No. 109,0.39; e, No. 109,083;/, No. 109,084; g, No. 109,078. 



Genitalia (Fig. 6a-g). The penis is thin-walled, very weakly or 

 usually not noticeably enlarged near the atrium, containing a slender 

 tapering, corrugated papilla, half to two-thirds or more the length 

 of penis. Epiphallus somewhat shorter than penis, typically ter- 

 minating in a little flagellum, but this is often rudimentary or wanting. 

 Penial retractor long, inserted on apex of penis and base of epiphallus. 

 The vagina is but little shorter than the penis. Lengths of the 

 organs in mm. follow, the specimens all from stations on Marble 

 Peak: 




296 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC.^ 



Mus. No. Penis. Papilla. 



109,078 

 109,077 

 119,039 

 119.040 

 109,074 

 109,083 

 109,0S4 

 109,0S0 

 109,071 



12.5 

 12 

 9 

 10 



7.3 



S 

 6 



Retrac- 

 tor. 



Vagina. 



10 



S 11 

 12 , 8.5 



....! 9.5 

 .... 9 



7 



11 5.5 



.... 7 

 G 



Station. ' Fig. 



26 



26 

 4(1911). 

 3(1911). 



2'2 



38 

 Cave 



Cxi. 

 Cw. 

 Cy}. 



6/. 

 Qh'c. 



This species is closely related to S. hachitana (Dall) and ;S. compar 

 Pils. It has the peristome more thickened within than the former 

 and differs from S. compar^ by the more solid shell, more thickened 

 peristome, etc. 



The more widely open umbilicus distinguishes it readily from other 

 Sonorellas of the hachitana group found in the Santa Catalinas. 

 Other specimens of the original lot from the type locality measure : 

 Alt. 15 diam. 26.3 mm. Alt. 13.8, diam. 24 mm. 

 " 15.3 " 24.6 " " " " 23 " 

 " 13 " 23.6 " " 12.5, " 22 ". 

 The largest examples were taken at Station 3, two measuring: 

 Alt. 16.4, diam. 28.2 mm.; 5 whorls. 

 u j7 a 28 " 5 " 



Marble Peak and Apache Camp have oak, juniper and sycamore 

 wood on the lower slopes; the crest of the ridge, the head of the 

 main "slide," is in the pine belt. 



Sonorella marmorarius limifontis n. subsp. PI. Ill, figs. 5, 5a, 56. 



The shell is depressed, openly umbilicate (the width of umbilicus 

 contained 7 times in that of the shell) ; whitish, faintly buff near the 

 suture and on the spire, having the usual chestnut-brown band. 

 Last whorl wide, very deeply descending in front. Surface glossy, 

 weakly marked with growth-lines as in related species of the hachi- 

 tana group, and showing weak traces of impressed spiral lines on the 

 upper surface of the last whorl. The last whorl descends deeply 

 and abruptly in front. The aperture is very oblique, rounded-oval. 

 Peristome somewhat expanded, slightly thickened within. 



' SonorcUa conii^m', new name for Sonorella ashmuni Pils., Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila. 1905, p. 259, pi. 17, figs. 9-14. Not S. ashmuni Bartsch. 



On comparison with the type cf S. ashmuni, this species is seen to differ coi:- 

 spicuously by the more depressed and more openly umbilicate .shell. — H..A.P. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Alt. 13.3, diam. 22.3 ram.; .5 whorls. 

 " 14 " 23 " scarcely 5 whorls. 

 " 16 " 26.-5 " 5 whorls. 



Santa Catalina Mountains at Station 17, bluffs near Mud Springs, 

 on Pine Canyon. 



The last whorl descends more than in S. marmorarius, the aperture 

 is more oblique, and the color of adults is paler. The immature 

 shells have more of a cinnamon tint than the adults. 



The spiral lines mentioned in the description are usually very 

 faint, often scarcely discernible, but in the largest example they are 

 quite distinct. The umbilicus sometimes varies to somewhat 

 smaller than in the type specimen. 



Mud Springs, on Pine Canyon, a branch of Sabino above Sabino 

 Basin, is a walled hole in the mud. It is on the trail from Sabino 

 Basin to Soldier's Camp, the elevation about 7,000 ft. It is in the 

 pine zone. The Sonorella was found in the first rocks east of the 

 spring along the trail. Also at the foot of a high cliff, in stratified 

 "porphyry," in a ravine heavily wooded with cypress (Cupj'essiis 

 arisonica), about a mile southeast of the springs. 



Sonorella marmorarius imula n. subsp. PI. Ill, figs. 7, "a. 



At Stations 17 and 19 (1917), on a limestone hill 6 miles west of 

 Brush Corral Ranger Station, north of inkier Springs, in the northern 

 foothills of the Catalinas, many specimens were taken, chiefly dead, 

 differing from typical rnarmorarius by the somewhat darker color, 

 and by having about a half of a whorl more in examples of similar 

 diameter. 



Alt. 26.5, diam. 15 mm.; 5| whorls. 



Eighty-five specimens from Station 19, all of the adults collected, 

 measure as follows: 



Diam. in mm 22.3 22.4 22.5 22.6 22.9 23 23.1 23.2 



Number of specimens ...1 1 1 3 1 3 1 3 



Diam. in mm. 23.3 23.4 23.5 23.6 23.7 23.9 24 24.1 



N umber of specimens ...2 3 2 2 3 1 4 2 



Diam. in mm.. 24.2 24.3 24.4 24.5 24.6 24.7 24.8 24.9 



Number of specimens ...6 2 6 4 5 3 2 3 



Diam. in mm 25 25.125.3 25.4 25.5 25.6 25.9 26 



Number of specimens ...4 2 2 22 1 2 1 



Diam. in mm 26.2 26.3 26.4 26.5 



Number of specimens ... 1 1 1 1 




298 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



As the error in measuring may be at least 0.1 mm., it will be seen, 

 if a curve is plotted, that the mode for diameter is at about 24.4 mm., 

 and the total variation 2.1 mm. in either direction. 



A specimen having the umbilicus exceptionally narrow is illustrated 

 in pi. 4, figs. 8-86. The spire is also narrower than in the typical 

 form; yet it seems unlikely that there is more than one species in the lot. 



Sonorella galiurensis n. sp. PI. V, figs. 5 to 66. 



The shell is umbihcate (the width of umbilicus contained about 

 9 times in that of the shell), between cinnamon-brown and sayal- 

 brown in color, fading on the base, and much paler on both sides of 

 the broad chestnut-brown band above the periphery. Glossj^; em- 

 bryonic whorls closely pitted-granulate, with the usual protractive 

 threads; subsequent whorls lightlj^ marked with irregular growth- 

 lines. The last whorl is wide and descends somewhat in front. The 

 peristome is narrowly expanded. The parietal callus usually has a 

 thickened edge in fully adult shells. 

 Alt. 16.7, diam. 27.5 mm.; 5 whorls, (type, Sta. 30). 

 " 16, " 21 A " 5 " (Sta. 30). 

 " 16.4, " 25 " 5 " (Sta. 30). 

 " 16.7 '' 30.5 " 5 " (Sta. 34). 

 Galiuro Mountains at the following Stations (1917): 



Fig. 7. Genitalia of Sonorella galiurensis, No. 118,122. 






1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



24. Southern slope of mountains at eastern gate of John Rhodes' ranch, among 

 boulders on mesa. 



26. Rhodes' canyon. 



27. Northern slope, amphitheatre on Whitlock ranch. 



28. Foot of main gulch facing north, same amphitheatre. 



29. Farther up same gulch. 



30. "Porphyry" slide on trail IJ miles south of Copper Creek Mining Camp. 



Type locality. 



31. Camp at smelter, Copper Creek. 



32. Rock slide sloping west, on trail half way between Copper Creek Camp and 



Table Mountain. 



33. "Porphyry" slide in forks of creek 2 miles east of Table Mountain. 



34. Slide near the preceding. 



3.5. Cliffs on northeastern slope of Table Mountain. 



Genitalia (fig. 7). The general proportions are as in S. marmoT' 

 arius. The penis has a long, ver\' thin sheath about the basal part, 

 not seen in mannorarius; its lower portion is somewhat swollen and 

 has several small longitudinal folds within. Retractor muscle long. 

 Papilla weakly annulate, about half as long as the penis. There is 

 the usual short flagellum. The vagina about equals the penis in 

 length. 



Length of penis 10 mm. 



papilla 5 



epiphallus .... 7 



flagellum 1.5 " 



vagina 9 " 



Museum No 118,122. 



This form is much like S. marmorariiis. The shell is slightly more 

 capacious and darker colored, and there is some difference in the penis. 

 Its habitat is separated from that of marmorarius by the valley of 

 the San Pedro River. The elevation is much less than that in- 

 habited by *S. marmorarius. 



20 living specimens from Station 30, all taken, measure as fol- 

 lows: 



Diameters in mm. . . 25 25.5 26 26.5 27 27.5 28 29 

 No. specimens ... (1) (1) (2) (2) (3) (2) (8) (1) 



17 specimens from Station 24, a southern slope; 



Diameters 24 24.5 25 26 26.5 27 28 28.5 30.5 



No. specimens.... (1) (2) (3) (2) (4) (1) (2) (1) (1) 



Sonorella tortillita n. sp. PI. V, figs. 4, 4a, 46. 



The shell is umbilicate (width of umbilicus contained about 8f 

 times in that of the shell), pinkish buff, fading to white around the 

 umbilicus and paler near the chestnut-brown band which revolves 

 above the periphery of the last whorl and shows very narrowly above 

 the suture on most of the penult whorl. The surface is glossy; 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC.^ 



embryonic shell about 1^ whorls, the first half whorl having some 

 radial wrinkles, the rest of the embryonic portion closely irregularly 

 granulose, and having fine, rather indistinct, tangential (protractive) 

 threads, often visible only near the suture. Subsequent whorls 

 have the usual fine growth-lines. The whorls increase slowly at 

 first, the last one very wide, suture descending slightly in front. 

 The aperture is rounded oval-lunate. Peristome is well expanded. 



Alt. 15.5, diam. 27 mm.; aperture 

 alt. 14.3, width 15.8 mm.; 4f whorls. 

 Tortillita Mountains, Pinal Co., 

 Arizona, the type, No. 118,053, from 

 Station 41 (1917), east side of Hog 

 Canyon; also found at Station 40, 

 west side of same canyon near the 

 cement dam, and Station 42, south 

 slope of m'ountains east of Hog 

 Canyon. 



Genitalia (Fig. 8). The penis is 

 very long and rather slender, with 

 muscular walls, containing a long, 

 slender, corrugated, tapering papilla. 

 The epiphallus is shorter than the 

 penis, without a distinct flagellum, 

 though there seems to be a rudi- 

 mentary one concealed in the integu- 

 ment. The penial retractor is long. 

 Length of vagina is about equal to 

 the penis. 



By the long penis and vagina 

 this species is related to S. rincon- 



Fig. 8. Genitalia of SonoreUa tor- ^nsis, but in that snail these organs 

 tillita with detail of the penis- are far longer. S. santaritana is even 



more like S. tortillita in genitalia, 



but the shell is flatter, the whorls of smaller caliber. None of the 



Santa Catalina species has the vagina and penis nearly so long as in 



S. tortillita. The larger shells referred to B. sahinoensis occidentalis 



are closely similar. 



The embryonic sculpture described is in large part effaced in 



the fully adult shells found. The color, too, is somewhat faded. 



In the young and barely full-grown examples it is decidedly darker 



than descri])ed. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



The largest specimen from the type locaUty measures 17.2x28.6 

 mm.; the smallest, 12.5x23.2 mm.; very few are under 25 mm. diam- 

 eter. The largest shell in the lot from the west side of Hog Canyon 

 measures 17.5x30 mm. 



The Tortillitas are arid mountains without forest. 



Sonorella rinconensis Pils. & Ferr. 



Sonorclla rinconensis Pilsbry & Ferriss, Proc. A. N.S. Phila. 1909, p. 517, 

 fig. 1, pi. 22, fig.?. 1-3, 5, 7.^ 



Rincon range: Rincon Peak and Wrong Mountain; Mt. Mica, 

 only those from Rincon Peak dissected. This species was not en- 

 countered in the localities visited in 1917. It inhabits elevations 

 above 7,500 ft., occurring in granitic rocks. 



Thysanophora hornii (Gabb). 



Santa Catalina Mountains : Stations 3 and 9, near mouth of Sabino 

 Canyon, 4,500 ft. Station 13, mouth of Bear Canyon, 4,500 ft. 

 Station 40, Alder Springs, 8,000 ft. Southern foothills of Rincon 

 Mountains near the cave, Station 191 (1918). Gahuro Mountains. 



Thysanophora ingersoUi (Blaud). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Mt. Lemon at Stations C, 19, 31, 

 34, 37, etc., at 9,000 to 9,500 ft. 



ENDODONTID^. 

 Gonyodiscus cronkhitei (Nc.) 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 21, Desert Laboratory 

 Plantation, 8,500 ft. Soldier Camp. Bear Wallow. Around Mt. 

 Lemon at Station C, spring on west side; Station 19, Congdon's 

 Cabin; Station 28, marshy spring; Station 37; Station 22, old Lemon 

 trail; Station 31, aspens, new trail; Station 34, 9,000 to 9,500 ft. 



Rincon Mountains: Spud Rock and Catalina saddle. 



Radiodiscus millecostatus Pils. & Ferr. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Environs of Mt. Lemon, Stations C, 

 19, 28, 30, 31, 34, 37 and some others, at elevation of 7,000 to 

 9,500 ft. Bear Wallow. Kellogg Peak. Generally distributed and 

 locally very abundant, especially in the aspen zone. 



Helicodiscus arizonensis P. & F. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 1, near weir, Sabino Canyon, 

 4,500 ft. Station 27, Bear Wallow. Marble Peak at Station 25, 

 8,500 ft., and Station 26, 8,000 ft. Rincon Mountains : Spud Rock. 

 Galiuro Mountains, Station 24 (1917). 



* The reference to figures " 1-4, 7" as given in our paper was incorrect. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-Dec, 



Punctum californicum Pils. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: trail from Webber's to Lemon Moun- 

 tain. 



VITRINID^. 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Santa Catalina Mountains : Station 37, north side of Mt. Lemon 

 9,000 ft.; trail to Webber's place. 



ZONITID^. 

 Polita indentata umbilicata (Ckll.). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station A, Bear Wallow Creek. 

 West side Mt. Lemon at Station C. Marble Peak at Stations 25 

 and 26, 8,000-8,500 ft. Trail from Webber's place to Mt. Lemon. 

 Alder Spring. Rincon Mountains at Station 21 (1917), Catalina 

 Saddle, and Spud Rock. Galiuro Mountains, Station 24. 



Striatura milium meridionalis (P. & F.)- 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station A, Bear Wallow Creek; 

 Soldier's Camp; Station 21, Desert Laboratory plantation, 8,500 ft.; 

 Mt. Lemon at Stations 22, 28, 31, 37, at 9,000 to 9,500 ft.; trail to 

 Webber's Cabin; Alder Spring. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 21, Desert Laboratory 

 plantation, 8,500 ft. Soldier Camp. Stations 19, 22, 37 on Mt. Lemon, 

 at about 9,000 ft. Station 25, northwest ridge of Marble Peak, 

 8,500 ft. Rincon Mountains, Station 20 (1917). 



Zonitoides minuscula alachuana (Dall). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Mt. Lemon, Bear Wallow; Kellogg 

 Peak and Alder Spring. Rincon Mountains. 



Zonitoides singleyana (Pils.). 



Rincon Mountains. 



Euconulus fulvus (Mull.)- 



Santa Catalina Mountains : Alder Springs. Soldier Camp. Sta- 

 tion 27, Bear Wallow Creek. Mt. Lemon at Station C, 19, 22, 28, 30, 

 31, 34. Common up to 9,500 ft. Ridge from ]\Iarble Peak, south- 

 west, 8,500 ft.; south side of Marble Peak. Rincon Mountains. 



VALLONIID^. 



Vallonia cyclophorella Ckl!. 



Santa Catahna Mountains: Mt. Lemon at Stations 19, 22, 30, 

 31, 37, at about 9,000-9,500 ft. Marble Peak, quartzite slide on 

 south side, 8,000 ft. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



Vallonia perspectiva Sterki. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: jMarble Peak, in quartzite slide on 



south side, 8,000 ft., rare. Galiuro Mountains: Whitlock ranch on 



the northern slope. 



PUPILLID^. 



Pupoides marginata (Say). 



Southern foothills of Rincon Mountains near the cave, Shaw's 

 Ranch, Station 148 (1918). 



Pupilla hebes (Ancey). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Mt. Lemon, at head of the aspen 

 gulch, and I mile below, on the new trail, 9,500 ft., and on the north 

 side, 9,000 ft. Among those from the last locality, Station 37, 6 out 

 of 128 were albinos. Station 22, ridge near Marshall Pass. It 

 occurred in some abundance in all the localities except Station 22. 



Pupilla hebes nefas Pils. & Ferr. 



Pupilla hebes form nefas P. &. F., Pro?. A. N. S. Phila., 1910, p. 135. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 20, northeast side of Kel- 

 logg Peak, 8,500 ft., Station 27, Bear Wallow, 214 specimens. Sol- 

 dier Camp, 63 specimens. Station 21, Desert Laboratory Station, 

 8,500 ft., 84 specimens. Station 22, ridge near Marshall Pass, rare. 

 Station 29, Leaning Rock, south side Alt. Lemon, 9,500 ft., 15 speci- 

 mens. Station 25, ridge of Marble Peak towards Mt. Lemon, 8,500 

 ft., 57 specimens. Station 26, "quartzite" slide on Mt. Lemon, 

 8,000 ft., 2 specimens. Station 28, marshy spring near trail, Mt. 

 Lemon, 1 specimen. Rincon Mountains: Spud Rock; Catalina 

 Saddle. 



P. h. nefas almost always has a small parietal tooth, and is usually 

 a little longer than P. hebes, with between 6 and 7 whorls. It differs 

 from P. syngeyies by having no crest behind the lip, though there is 

 usually a shallow, wide depression there. 



In onty one of the numerous stations mentioned above were hebes 

 and nefas found together. That was Station 22, where verj' few 

 shells were taken. Lots from all of the other stations, frequently 

 copious, were either all hebes or all nefas. 



Elsewhere P. h. nefas has been found only in two places in the 

 Chiricahua Mountains, at elevations estimated from 7,500 to 8,000 

 ft. It was not associated there with dextral hebes, which was found 

 at another Chiricahua locality. We are now disposed to rank P. h. 

 nefas as a well-marked subspecies. 



Chaenaxis intuscostata (Clapp). 



Southern foothills of the Rincons, near the Tucson-Benson high- 

 way, near the cave, Shaw's ranch, at about 3,500 ft. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



Gastrocopta ashmuni (Sterki). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Slide on Marble Peak, 8,000 ft., 

 rare. 



Galiuro Mountains : Whitloek ranch, on the northern slope. 



Gastrocopta cochisensis (Piis. & Ferr.). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Alder Springs and Station 25, south- 

 west ridge of Marble Peak, 8,500 ft. The shells were dirty when 

 collected, like B. quadridens. 



Gastrocopta dalliana (Sterki^ . 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 3, mouth of Sabino Canyon, 

 4,500 ft. 



Gastrocopta pellucida hordeacella (Pils.)- 



Southern foothills of Rincon Mountains near the cave, Shaw's 

 ranch. Station 148 (1918), at about 3,500 ft. 



Gastrocopta bilamellata (St. & Clapp). 



Galiuro Mountains. 



Gastrocopta quadridens (Pils.). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Stations 30, 31, 37, and all around 

 Mt. Lemon at 9,000 to 9,500 ft. Soldier Camp, one specimen. When 

 found alive, the shell is rather copiously plastered with dirt, probably 

 attached by the mucous of the animal. 



Gastrocopta pilsbryanp (Sterki). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 3, mouth of Sabino Canyon, 

 4,500 ft. Alder Springs, very abundant. Station 27, Bear Wallow. 

 Station 18, Soldier Camp, 8,500 ft. Station 21, Desert Laboratory 

 plantation, 8,500 ft. Station 22, near Marshall Pass, old Mt. Lemon 

 trail, 9,000 ft. Station 28, marsM^ spring, Mt. Lemon trail, 9,000 ft. 

 Trail to Webber's cabin. Station 31, north side of Mt. Lemon. 

 Station 26, quartzite slide on Marble Peak, 8,000 ft. Galiuro Moun- 

 tains at Whitloek ranch. Rincon Mountains : Spud Rock. 



FERUSSAOID^. 

 Cochlicopa lubrica (Mull.). 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Station 25, ridge to peak Mt. Lemon, 

 8,500 ft.; Station 26, slide on Marble Peak, 8,000 ft. Rincon Moun- 

 tains: Spud Rock. 



Vertigo modesta insculpta Pils. 



The shell is similar to T^. modesta in contour, but differs by being 

 closely and rather sharply striate on the intermediate whorls; the 

 first whorl smooth, the last less striate than those preceding. There 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



is a narrow but moderately high erest close behind the outer lip. The 

 color is chestnut-brown, becoming paler towards the apex. When alive 

 both animal and shell are black. Teeth fine, a small supraparietal 

 denticle being developed. The parietal and lower palatal folds are 

 rather large. Length 2.6, diam. 1.35 mm.; 5^ whorls. 



Except in external sculpture, this form resembles V. modesta from 

 Alaska, figured in Proc. A. N. S. Phila. for 1900, pi. 23, fig. 2. By its 

 sharp striation V. vi. insculpta is quite distinct from all other large 

 Vertigos of the Rocky Mountains, but there is a smaller form of V. 

 modesta in Labrador which is striate on the spire. 



It is very abundant between 9,000 and 9,500 ft. on Mt. Lemon, 

 in and near the aspen zone, where several hundred specimens were 

 collected. 



Ver}^ beautiful albino specimens occurred in the colonies from Sta- 

 tions 30, 31, and 37, Mt. Lemon. 



Other localities for V. m. insculpta are: Santa Catalina Moun- 

 tains: Soldier Camp. Mt. Lemon at Stations 19, 22, 28, 30, 31, 

 34, 37, at 8,500 to 9,500 ft. 



Vertigo coloradensis inserta Pils. 



In the original V. c. basidens from Bland, New Mexico, there is 

 one parietal tooth and the basal is at the foot of the columella, re- 

 mote from the lower palatal. In the Santa Catalina series there is 

 often a small angular lamella, and the basal fold stands close to 

 the lower palatal. 



This form replaces V. c. basidens in the Canadian zone of the Santa 

 Catalinas. The type is from Bear Wallow. 



Santa CataUna Mountains: Desert Laboratory plantation, 8,500 

 ft.; Bear Wallow Creek, 8,500 ft.; Soldier Camp. Mt. Lemon at 

 Stations 19, 22, 28, 31, 9,000 to 9,500 ft.; Alder Springs. Rincon 

 Mountains at Station 20. 



V. c. inserta differs from V. c. arizonensis by the development of a 

 basal fold, and all of the teeth are larger. 



Recent studies of the group have convinced us that Vertigo Colum- 

 biana utahensis Sterki is identical with V. coloradensis Ckll. The 

 former name is therefore superfluous. Our record of V. c. iitahensis 

 from the Chiricahua Mountains, in these Proceedings for 1910, 

 p. 144, should be changed to V. coloradensis. 



ANCYLID^ 

 Gundlachia californica Rowell. 



Santa Catalina Mountains: Sabino Canyon, at Alkali Spring, 

 Lowell U. S. Ranger Station, on leaves of Plantinus wrighti. 




306 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



Very few examples are in the Gundlachia stage; none were found in 

 the septate stage. Many have the narrow, high, obhque shape of 

 septates, but without septum. Many of them reached the normal 

 size of septates, then had a resting stage during which the shell became 

 blackened, subsequently resuming growth along the margins, forming 

 a narrow, oblique shell somewhat like A. parallelus in outline. 

 Other examples become wider, about as in A. rivularis, in the second 

 period of growth. The early stages are similar in all, having the usual 

 Ferrissia sculpture. 



Those individuals in the Gundlachia stage do not appear specfi- 

 cally separable from G. callfornica. 



PHYSID^. 



Physa virgata Gld. 



Small specimens which appear to belong to this species were taken 

 in lower Sabino Canyon, with Gu7idlachia. 



List of Collecting Stations in the Santa Catalina, Rincon, 



TORTILLITA and GaLIURO MOUNTAINS. 



For the Santa Catalinas and Rincons, these stations can be located 

 and approximate elevations ascertained by reference to the U. S. 

 Geological Survey topographic map, Tucson Quadrangle. As dif- 

 ferent sets of station numbers were unfortunately used in different 

 years, these numbers can only be used in connection with the dates. 



SANTA CATALINA 

 Stations of 1913 (J. H. F.) 



1. Sabino Canyon, bluffs on east side of creek at water gauge dam. Eleva- 

 tion about 4,500 ft. 



2. Same, quarter mile farther up. 



3. Rock slides near camp at "Picnic Grounds," Sabino Canyon. 



4. Slide north of camp, 4,800 ft. 



5. Mountain east of camp. 



6. About 2 miles along trail to Soldier's Camp. 5,000 ft. 



7. Spring near Ranger Station at mouth of Sabino Canyon {Physa and Gund- 

 lachia) 4,500 ft. 



8. Mouth of Sabino, foot of bluff, west side. 4,500 ft. 



9. Rocks 1 mile above camp. 



10. Vantana Canj^on at its mouth; a small dry canyon next west of Sabino, 

 not named on topographic map. Ca. 4,500 ft. 



11. Rock Canyon, in "quartzite" bluff. This is the second small canyon' 

 west of Sabino. About 4,500 feet. 



12. Vantana Canyon, west .side of east mouth. Same elevation. 



13. Bear Canyon, east side. 14, same, west side, near 13. 



15. Mile above camp in Sabino, on mountain slope, west side. About 5,000 ft. 



16. Slide below preceding, about the same elevation. 



17. First rocks below Mud Springs, on Pine Canyon (a branch of Sabino 

 above Sabino Basin). Mud Springs are about 9 miles south of Soldier's Camp. 

 About 7,000 ft. 



18. Soldier's Camp. 




1918.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



19. Congden Camp. 



20. Northeastern side Kellogg Peak. 



21. Carnegie Desert Laboratory experiment station, Marshall Pass. 



22. Ridge running down east side Lemon Mountain. 



2.S. Ridge running south from Soldier's Camp towards Mud Springs. 



24. West side of ^larble Peak ridge. 



25. Top of same ridge. 



26. "Quartzite" slide south side of Marble Peak (same as Station 3, 1910; 

 Station 4, 1910, is the top of same slide). 



27. Ridge south of Hinkley Camp. 



28. Marshy spring on Lemon Mountain trail. 



29. Leaning Rock, south side Lemon Mountain. 



60. Aspen Gulch, parallel with main trail to Lemon Moimtain. 31, quarter 

 mile below" 30, where gulch is close to traU. 32, quarter mile farther down. 33, 

 foot of trail at the stream. Little shells very abundant at these stations and the 

 next. 



34. Cold Spring. 



35. Southeast side of Marble Peak, about Apache Camp and "Joliet Cave." 



36. Northwest side Marble Peak near "Old Dan's Cabin." 



37. Westfall'smine. 



38. North side Marble Peak near the Daley mine. 



39. Goodale's house. 



40. Alder Spring, Peck Canyon (one of the head branches of Buehman Can- 

 yon). Alder Spring is about 12 miles east of Soldier's Camp Ranger Station; 

 Brush Corral Ranger Station is about 8 miles farther down Buehman Canyon. 



41. Buehman Canyon: "Quartzite" slide. Sycamore Spring. 



42. Buehman Canyon: Forest Ranger pasture near lower fence, Brush 

 Corral. 



43. Buehman Canyon. Lower on the stream, towards Korn Kobb mine. 



44. Buehman Canyon. Near the mine. 



45. John Lyon's mountain (east of San Pedro River and Rincon Mountains, 

 north of the Little Dragoon Mountains). The rock is granite, and only Thysa- 

 nophora hornii was fovuid. 



Siations of 1917 (J. H. P.). 

 (SaLta Catalina Range.) 



12. iVIain fork of Sabino Creek, at camp in Sabino Basin. 



13. Head of Bear Creek {Gundlachia and Physa). 



14. Head of Bear Canyon. 



15. Northeast corner of Sabino Basin, on trail to Soldier's Camp. Boulder 

 dykes along gulches. 



16. Same as Station 12, in slides of mountain facing north. 



17. Southwest side of Sabino Basin, big movnitain in the "Window Range." 



18. Brush Corral, crossing of Peck Canyon, Alder Springs. 



19. Limestone mountain in foothills of S. Catalinas, San Pedro slope. 



(Rincon Mountains.) 



20. North side of the high Rincon peaks. 



21. Saddle camp, between Santa Catalinas and Rincons. 



22. Ridge west of Spud Rock Ranger Station, in aspens. 



23. Drift debris of San Pedro River above Mammoth. 



(GaUuro Mountains.) 



24. Drift of boulders near southeast gate of the forest reserve pasture. 



25. In slides, creek bank, above .John Rhodes' ranch house. 



26. In slides head of the same gulch as 25. 



27. In No. 4 slope in amphitheatre of the mountains on Whitlow ranch, 

 east of Sombrero Peak. 



28 and 29. Other slides in the same vicinity. 



30. On trail two miles south of Copper Creek mining camps. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



31. Slide west across gulch from smelter, Copper Creek. 



32. On trail to Table Mountain about half way from last station. 



33. West of abandoned copper camp, creek running north, east of Table 

 Mountain, in slide east of said creek. 



34. Slides in same vicinity. 



35. Cliffs, northeast rim of Table Mountain. 



(Western slope of Santa Catalina Range.) 



36. East side of Pima Canyon. 



37. West side of Pima Canyon. 

 3S. Drift debris of Pima Canyon. 



39. Fork of the Canada del Oro near the foot of Marble Peak. 



43. Northeast of Sutherland's ranch, in the foothills. 



44. First large canyon north of Romero Canyon, and south of the Suther- 

 land ranch. 



45. About one mile east of Station 44. 



(Tortillita Mountains.) 



40. West side of Hog Canyon, in basin near cement dam, 



41. East side of Hog Canyon, on the mountain top. 



X — Mountains of the Gila Headwaters: The Blue and 

 White Mountains, Arizona, and the Mogollon Mountains, 

 New Mexico. 



The malacological survey of these ranges, which lie in Graham, 

 Apache and Greenlee counties, Arizona, and Socorro count}^, New 

 Mexico, was begun by one of us (Ferriss) in 1913, and continued 

 by Ferriss and L. E. Daniels in 1914. In 1900 Dr. E. O. Wooten, 

 well known for his work on New Mexican botany, made a ten-day 

 trip in the Mogollons, in course of which he crossed the range from 

 Willow Creek to Mogollon and ascended the eastern flank of Mogollon 

 Peak to almost 9,000 feet. The type of Ashmunella mogoUoneiisis was 

 collected on this occasion. So far as we know, no other mollusks had 

 been taken in the region of the Gila headwaters prior to the collec- 

 tions here described. 



A few mollusks collected between the San Pedro River and Clif- 

 ton, Arizona, are included, as they are geographically intermediate 

 between the regions considered in articles IX and X. 



Early in September, 1913, Ferriss left Tucson with Frank Cole, 

 the guide of tourists and naturalists, for Mt. Thomas in southern 

 Apache county, 11,496 feet above sea level. Travehng by wagon, 

 brief stops were made in the Graham Mountains and upper end of the 

 Peloncillo range. At Clifton the wagon was stored, saddle horses 

 and pack mules secured, and the trail followed to Metcalf. 



From Clifton to the Double Circle ranch on Eagle Creek it is 

 rough country, mostly forested, and with sufficient rock for snail 

 cover, but the snails do not like it. The trail here ran northwesterly 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



for about 35 miles, then directly north 16 miles on Eagle Creek to 

 the southern rim of the Blue Mountains. Pupas and Vallonias were 

 found at Honeymoon Ranger Station, and Oreohelix a mile or two 

 farther on, fifty miles from Clifton. 



The rim of the Blue has a wall of broken granite. We found 

 Ashmunella mogollonensis and a grayish form of Oreohelix cooperi, 

 the latter also in the quaking asp and cork-])ark fir groves of the 

 vicinity. 



The route lay northwesterly again, across the K. P. cienoAja, 

 down Corduroy and Fish Creeks and across Black River, to Reser- 

 vation Creek in Apache Co. This high plateau has a continuous 

 forest of the largest yellow pine, blue spruce, Douglas spruce, thickets 

 of quaking asp and alder. Pupaj and Oreohelix were the prin- 

 cipal snails. Few were found on the dome-like summit of Mt. 

 Thomas. 



Along Black river Oreohelices, from pale to nearly black, from high 

 to low, were in every rock pile. 



On the return trip the Raspberry trail from the rim of the Blue 

 Mountain to Cosper's ranch on the Blue river was taken. Down the 

 Blue and San Francisco rivers Ashmunella, Sonorella and Oreohelix 

 were found in the slides investigated, but the journey was a hurried 

 one. This ground was thoroughly covered in the journey of 1914. 



An account of the journey of 1913 may be found in Nautilus for 

 January, 1919. 



On the expedition of 1914, Ferriss was accompanied by Mr. L. E. 

 Daniels.^ Part of the route taken in 1913 was retraced — from 

 Clifton, Graham Co., Arizona, up the San Francisco and Blue 

 Rivers to Cosper's ranch, a distance of about 50 miles. From this 

 point they continued up the Blue River, northeast, to its head, and 

 to Luna, Socorro Co., New Mexico. From Luna the party turned 

 southeast, across the San Francisco Mountains (which lie south of 

 Luna), and by way of Alma to the Mogollon Mountains. Some 

 account of this trip was given in Nautilus XXVIII, February, 1915, 

 pp. 109-113. The Ashmunellas collected were described and figured 

 in Nautilus XXIX, June, July and August, 1915, to which the reader 

 is referred for these matters. A map showing the collecting stations 

 in the Mogollons may be found on page 331. 



5 We have to i-ecord the death of Mr. Daniels, October 23, 1918. He was 

 a companion of both authors on collecting trips of some months' duration, and it 

 is a real sorrow that he will no longer share the labors of the trail or the cheer of 

 the evening camp fire. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



The San Francisco and the Blue rivers have been seriously torn up 

 by floods in recent years, but many of the snails remain. Nearly 

 all the farmers have been swept out. Oreohelices, Sonorellas or 

 Ashmunellas exist in every favorable situation from Clifton to Bob 

 Cat on the interstate boundary, except in a few short stretches of 

 these rivers where the snails seem to have a dislike for the soil, the 

 chemistry of the rocks, or something not traced. This is about 

 fifty miles in a straight line, and thus very long miles. 



Again on the Luna road to Alma, in New JMexico, Oreohelix was 

 found on the crest of the San Francisco Mountains, and the largest 

 colony, with many albinos, came from the Rio Saliz, a small stream 

 draining the San Francisco Mountains eastward into the San Fran- 

 cisco River. 



The MogoUons might be called a federation of sharp peaks. It is 

 not a high plateau like the White and Blue mountain region, yet the 

 forest conditions and tree associations are almost identical. On the 

 Bursam wagon road from Mogollon to Willow Creek, ascending to 

 9,000 feet, and usually running along the north slope of the peaks, 

 the conditions for snails are ideal. Ashmunella mogellonensis and 

 Oreohelix cooperi were soon picked whenever logs or stones were 

 turned in this (for snail hunters) two-day journey. At two points 

 Oreohelix barhata was found with the other two species. Afterward, 

 when the canyons facing west and south were explored the smaller 

 Ashmunellas were found in colonies with the three above mentioned. 

 Sonorella has not yet been found in the Mogollon range. In the ex- 

 treme southern part of Arizona (Chiricahua range) the large toothless 

 Ashmunellas are in colonies with the smaller toothed forms and 

 Oreohelix barbata with them. Also a Sonorella and sometimes Holo- 

 spira. Three species of Sonorella have been found in one slide; but 

 the general Arizona rule still remains one species of the genera of 

 Hehces to a colony. 



The banks of the canyons running west, in the Mogollons, were 

 abrupt, and the south bank furnished shade and cover. In Big 

 Dry Canyon, running directly south, the banks were so abrupt and 

 close together that snails were living on' both sides of the stream, 

 and in the greatest abundance within our experience. 



The wide differences in the Ashmunellas of the Mogollons and the 

 presence of the Chiricahua Oreohelix barbata seem to indicate an al- 

 luring future for Mogollon conchology. We believe that the deeper 

 canyons, penetrating farther into the large mountains, had greater 

 riches than Big Dry, l^dng in between them. Here too in the 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



canyon streams live the mountain trout, friendly and well condi- 

 tioned, but they are not the cut-throat trout of the Colorado. 



On the whole the Mogollons, in scenery and camping delights, are 

 not far behind the White and Blue Mountain region of eastern Ari- 

 zona. Silver City is the nearest and most convenient railway 

 station, and moreover it lies in a region unexplored by the snail 

 fraternity. 



One more killing was made on the return to Clifton, a colony of 

 Sonorellas at Steeple Rock, Sept. 14. Thus this event of 1914 had a 

 continuous run of two months and seven days. 



Aside from the minute Canadian Zone snails which have a wide 

 distribution at high levels, and the minutiae of the desert foothills 

 such as ThysanopJiora hornii, Succinea avara, the small Zonitoides, etc., 

 there are several forms showing close affinity between the San Fran- 

 cisco-Mogollon region and the Chiricahua Range. The species 

 Sonorella binneyi, Ashmunella chiricahuana and Orohelix barbata of 

 the Chiricahuas are represented here by S. binneyi franciscana, A. 

 mogollonensis and 0. barbata. The toothed Ashmunellas are of 

 nearly related species, and the same group of forms extends farther 

 east in New Mexico to the Black Range. None of the species 

 mentioned are found in the northern or Dos Cabezas part of the 

 Chiricahua range, their habitats being from 80 to over 100 miles 

 south of the regions now under consideration. The intervening 

 region is at the present time too dry for the existence of these snails. 



HELICID-^. 



Sonorella grahamensis n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 7, 7a, 7h. 



The shell is umbilicate (the width of umbilicus contained about 8^ 

 times in the diameter of shell), very thin, tawny-olive, paler at the 

 base, with the usual band; not very glossy; under the lens showing 

 the usual weak growth-lines, and both above and below there are 

 numerous spiral impressed lines. Whorls slowly increasing at first, 

 the last rapidly widening, descending in front. Aperture rounded- 

 oval, quite oblique. Peristome is thin, very Httle expanded. 



Alt. 10, diam. 19 mm.; umbihcus 2.2 mm.; 4^ whorls. 



Genitalia (fig. 9). The penis has a well developed sheath at the 

 base, and contains a long, tapering papilla. The penial retractor 

 is inserted at the base of epiphallus and apex of penis as in the 

 hachitana group. There is a short flagellum. The organs measure: 



Length of penis 9 mm.; papilla 7; epiphallus 6; flagellum 0.5; penial 

 retractor 4.7; vagina 7; spermatheca and duct 19 mm. 




312 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-Df'C., 



Fig. 9. Genitalia of S. grahamensis, with two details of the penis-papilla. 

 Type specimen. 



Mt, Graham, in the Pinaleno Range, Graham Co., Arizona, type 

 No. 109,101 A. N. S. P., collected by J. H. Ferriss, 10-14-1913. 



Graham Mountain is composed of crumbling granite (similar to 

 that of Nine-mile Water Hole in the Dos Cabezas range), and is 

 very dryon both north and south sides. On top there is yellow pine 

 and quaking asp forest. Camp was made in Stockton Pass, and a 

 couple of hours' collecting done at Mud Spring, on the summit. 

 Besides SonoreUa and Oreohelix, Vitrina alashana was abundant, and 

 two young Vallonias were found. The Pinaleno Range lies in line 

 with the Chiricahua system, though separated by a rather wide 

 mesa, in which the Southern Pacific R. R. runs, from the northern 

 end of the Dos Cabezas Mountains. 



S. grahamensis is not closelj' related to any other species known 

 to us. The delicate, spirally striate shell and the rather fusiform 

 penis-papilla are characteristic. 



Micrarionta praesidii n. sp. PI. VI, figs. S, 8a, 86. 



The shell is depressed, umbilicate (the width of umbilicus contained 

 about 5.7 times in the diameter), thin. The "dead" shell is grayish 

 white above, pale ecru-drab below, with some radial white streaks, 

 and at the shoulder a narrow, faintly traced gray band which be- 

 comes cinnamon towards the aperture. Under a lens fine gray spiral 

 lines are seen in places on the base. The initial half whorl is smooth; 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



next whorl has hyphen-Uke tubercles parallel with the suture, not 

 closely placed; subsequent whorls have famt growth-lines only; 

 there is no trace of spiral striae. 



The whorls are rather strongly convex, at first slowly increasing, 

 the last very wide, rather deeply descending in front. The aperture 

 is strongly oblique, nearly circular, faintly washed with ochraceous 

 within. The peristome is sharp, very little expanded except at the 

 columellar insertion where it is broadly dilated; terminations con- 

 nected by a rather long, quite thin parietal callus. 



Alt. 8.5, diam. 16 mm.; umbihcus 2.8 mm.; 4| whorls. 



Fort Grant, at foot of the Graham Range, Graham Co., Arizona, 

 the type. No. 58,121 A. N. F^. P., collected by Dr. George H. Horn. 



By the sculpture of the embryonic shell, as well as the general 

 appearance, this snail resembles Micrarionta hutsoni Clapp, which 

 is smaller, more depressed, with a larger umbihcus. It is somewhat 

 intermediate in form, between hutsoni and indioensis. If it reallj^ 

 belongs to Micrarionta, and there is no mistake about the locality, 

 it is- widely separated from its congeners. 



The single specimen has been in the collection for many years. 

 It had been labelled H. strigosa Gld. 



Dr. Horn, the distinguished coleopterist, was stationed at Fort 

 Grant sometime after 1863. He collected a number of shells in 

 that vicinity, which were described by W. M. Gabb in the American 

 Journal of Conchology for October, 1866, pp. 330, 331, as follows: 



Helix hornii Gabb. [Thysanophora hornii]. 



H. strigosa Gld. "The largest specimen I have seen of the species" 

 [ — Sonorella sp. undet.]. 



H. minuscula [Zonitoides minuscula alachuana.']. 



Pupa (Modicella) arizonensis Gabb [ = Pupoides marginaia var.}. 



Pupa hordacea Gabb [Pupoides hordacea\. 



The locality is given as "Fort Grant, at the junction of the Arivapa 

 and San Pedro Rivers;" but that junction is really a long day's 

 travel — fully fifty miles — westward; yet it may have been the 

 nearest definite landmark to be found on maps of the time. 



The "//. strigosa" mentioned by Gabb is a Sonorella 25 mm. in 

 diameter, of the S. hachitana group. The upper part of the peri- 

 stome is broken away, and the shell is bleached ; we do not recognize 

 the species. 



Of the Zonitoides several live specimens are preserved. They 

 probably came from around a spring. All of the other shells men- 

 tioned are such as live among rocks in arid foothills. The speci- 



99 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



men of Pupa hordacea seems to have been given to Mr. Binney; the 

 other species taken by Dr. Horn are in the collection of the Academy. 

 As Dr. Horn was also at Gila Bend, Yuma and other places in 

 western Arizona, the possibility of an erroneous locality label for 

 the specimen of M. praesidii is to be considered. That specimen was 

 not mentioned in Gabb's paper, but he would doubtless have con- 

 sidered it a small "H. strigosd". 



Sonorella rooseveltiana (Berry). PI. VI, figs. 9, Oa, 9&. 

 Nautilus XXXI, July, 1917, p. 14. 



Roosevelt, Gila Co., Arizona, 2200 ft. elevation. Figures of the 

 type, supplied by Dr. Berry, are here given for comparison with the 

 forms of adjacent counties. They are 1.6 natural size, the diameter 

 being 16.5 mm. 



S. rooseveltiana appears to belong to the hachitana group, but the 

 single specimen dissected was quite immature. It is, we believe, 

 the only mollusk reported from Gila County. 



Sonorella dslicata n. .sp. PL VI, figs. 6, 61, Qb. 



The shell is umbilicate (umbilicus contained slightly over 6 times 

 in diameter of shell), thin, somewhat translucent, light ochraceous- 

 buff with several pale or whitish oblique streaks on the last whorl, 

 and a cinnamon-brown band above the periphery. Glossy, having 

 the usual weak irregular growth-lines. The embryonic whorls are 

 nearly smooth, but short, protractive threads may be seen near the 

 suture. 



The last whorl is wide and descends rather slowly in front. The 

 aperture is strongly oblique, rounded-oval. Peristome thin, ex- 

 panded, with a dull brown edge. 



Alt. 10.5, diam. 18.3 mm.; 4^ whorls. 



Genitalia (fig. 10) remarkable for the small size of the male organs. 

 The length of penis is about one-fifth the diameter of the shell, very 

 slender, having a stout basal sheath, and containing a short, cylindric 

 papilla. The epiphallus is longer than the penis, terminating in 

 a short flagellum. 



Length of penis 3.5 mm. 



papilla 1.2 " 

 epiphallus 4.5 " 

 flagellum 0.4 " 

 vagina 5.5 '' 



Northern end of the Peloncillo Range, about 6 miles south of the 

 Gila River, on the toll road between Solomonsville and Chfton, 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



315 



Graham Co., Arizona; in a "malpais" rock slide, about 4,800 ft. 

 elevation, type No. 109,110 A. N. S. P. paratypes in Ferriss Coll.; 

 collected by J. H. Ferriss, 11-14-1913. 



The shell recalls S. bowiensis Pils., differing by the wider last 

 whorl, smaller aperture and somewhat smaller umbilicus; also much 

 less distinct sculpture of the embryonic whorls. The genitalia, 

 examined in several individuals, differ by the very small size of the 

 male organs, relativeh^ even smaller than in S. hachitana and its 



Fig. 10. Genitalia of .S'. 

 and flaseUum. 



delicata. a, outline of penis-papilla, epiphallus 



immediate relatives. It differs from these by the cylindric penis- 

 papilla with bluntly conic end. The genitalia of S. walkeri P. & F., 

 of the Santa Ritas, have considerable similarity. 



The living animal has an odor like S. odorata in the Santa Catalinas. 



Sonorella caerulifluminis n. sp. PI. VI, figs. 1 to 1. 



The shell is depressed, umbilicate, the umbilicus contained about 

 8 times in the total diameter, somewhat translucent, nearly Isabella 

 color, having a chestnut-brown band at the shoulder, showing above 

 the suture on the penult and usually half of the next earlier whorl, 

 and without white bordering bands, though the shell may be slightly 

 paler there. It is somewhat translucent throughout. Surface 

 glossy. Embryonic portion of 1^ whorls, at first with some radial 

 ripples, then irregularly pitted-granulose, with weak oblique threads 

 as in others of the S. hachitana group. First post-embryonic whorl 

 is weakly striate and minutely papillose; later whorls with sculpture 

 of delicate, irregular growth-lines only. The whorls are moderately 




316 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-Dec, 



convex, the last descending slowly in front. The aperture is rounded 

 oval-lunate, large. Peristome expands a little and is dilated at the 

 columellar insertion. 



Alt. 14.6, diam. 25 mm.; alt. of aperture 12.3, width 14.3 mm.; 

 4| whorls (type, Station 18). 



Blue and San Francisco Rivers, Graham Co., Arizona, the type 

 (No. 119,048 A. N. S. P.) from Station 18 (1914), San Francisco 

 River 6 miles above its confluence with the Blue River. Found also 

 at Stations 5, 8, 10, 15, 16, 17, 19, 20 (1914), and 89, 91 (1913); from 

 Ash Canyon, 6 miles above Clifton, to the mouth of Sardine Creek 

 on the Blue River. The higher of these colonies are at little more 

 than 4,000 ft. 



While closely related to *S. hachitana, it differs from that by the 

 absence of white bands bordering the shoulder-band, and of a white 

 umbilical area, by the suture descending less deeply and not so 

 al^ruptly in front, and by the smooth penis-papilla. 



Fig. 11. Genitalia of Sonorella cu'rulijluminis. a, No. 119,048, Station IS, 

 typical, with enlarged detail of penis-papilla; h, No. 119,042, Station IG; c, 

 Station in, No. 119,046. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



317 



The head and back are blackish brown, fading downward and back- 

 ward to dark grayish brown, the tail paler. The sole has lateral 

 bands somewhat darker than the central field (No. 119,048). 



Genitalia (fig. 11) generally similar to S. hachitana. The penis 

 is very slender, its retractor muscle longer; penis-papilla slender, 

 smooth, with tapering end. A short flagellum is present. The 

 epiphallus is nearly as long as the penis. The vagina is generally 

 longer than the penis. 



In one specimen dissected, Station 20 (fig. 12a), the penis is about 

 a third longer, its papilla very long, three times the usual length or 

 more. The flagellum also is much longer. Such differences would 

 usually be thought specific, yet I have not found any differences in 

 the shells from this localitv. 



Fig. 12. a, Genitalia of S. cosrulifluminis ra>\, 119,047, from Station 20, 

 Blue River, h, S. hinncyi franciscana No. 119,044. 



Measurements of genitaUa of aS. cceruliflmninis. 



Collecting Station 18 19 16 20 



Penis 8.5 7.5 7 12 



Penis-papilla 3 3.5 4 11 



Epiphallus 8 6 7 8.7 



Flagellum 0.6 0.7 0.5 2 



Retractor , . . . 10 13 



Vagina 15 14 8 9.5 



Museum No 119,048 119,042 119,046 119,047 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



The size of the shell is rather variable, the extremes of diameter 

 in a series from Station 17 being 20 and 24.6 mm. The largest 

 specimen noticed measures 26.4 mm. An individual without a 

 dark band is photographed in fig. 4. It is from Station 19, Blue 

 River, at the mouth of Pigeon Creek. Two other shells from this 

 station are illustrated in figs, 2, 2a and 3, 3a. 



Sonorella binneyi franciscana n. subsp. PI. VI, firrs. 5, ofi, 56. 



The shell is umbihcate (width of umbilicus contained 9 to 10 

 times in that of shell), light pinkish cinnamon with some paler or 

 white oblique streaks and indistinctly paler on both sides of a chest- 

 nut-brown band above the periphery. This l^and shows above 

 the suture of the last half of the penult whorl. The surface is glossy; 

 embryonic shell of about 1 V2 whorls, the first half having some radial 

 ripples, the next whorl minutely granulate, having obliciue, curved 

 threads, protractive below, retractive above; the later whorls with 

 fine, unequal growth-lines. The whorls are convex, slowly increasing 

 at first, the last rapidly widening, descending a little in front. The 

 aperture is unusually large, shortly oval-lunate. The peristome is 

 very narrowly expanded, straightened and dilated towards the 

 columellar insertion. 



Alt. 11.6, cliam. 19mm., aperture 9.8x11.5 mm.; 4| whorls. 



San Francisco River, Graham Co., Arizona; type locality, Station 

 92 (1913), above Sardine Creek. Also taken at Station 93 in the 

 same vicinity, and at Station 13 (1914), 2 miles above Harper's. 

 Ferriss and Daniels. 



The head and back are dark grayish brown shading into dark 

 vinaceous drab downward and backward, the tail light colored. 



Genitalia (Fig. 126). The penis contains a cylindric papilla with 

 blunt, rounded end. The epiphallus is about twice as long as the 

 penis, and bears a small flagellum. The penial retractor inserts on 

 the epiphallus sovie distance {over f mm.) above the penis. The vagina 

 is nearly or about as long as the penis. Measurements follow: 



Station 13 13 93 



Length of penis 5 6 7 mm. 



papilla 2 2.3 3.5 



epiphallus 10.5 10 10.5 



flagellum 0.5 0.7 small 



penial retractor 3.3 



vagina 4.7 5 5.5 mm. 



Museum No 119,044 119,044 109,413 



By its genitalia and shell this subspecies is closely related to S. 



It 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



hinneyi P. & F., of the southern Chiricahuas, The blunt penis- 

 papilla, and especially the insertion of the penial retractor on the 

 epiphallus some distance beyond the apex of the penis, are alike in 

 both. There are, however, some differences in the proportions of 

 the organs, the epiphallus and penis-papilla being longer relative 

 to the penis in S. h. franciscana, and the last whorl oi franciscana is 

 a little wider, viewed from above. 



The diameter, in specimens seen, is from 17 to 19.3 mm. 



Ashmunella pilsbryana Feniss. 



Ashmundla -pilshryana Ferriss, Nautilus XXVII, 1914, p. 109. 



Ashmunella pilshryana Ferriss & Pilsbry, Nautilus XXIX, 181.5, p. 42, pi. 2, fig. 3. 



Arizona: Along the San Francisco River, frorn near Harper's 

 Ranch to 2 miles above the mouth of the Blue River, Graham and 

 Greenlee Counties, Arizona. 



Ashmunella mogollonensis (Pils.). 



Ashmunella chiricahuana mogollonensis Pilsbrv, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 190.", 

 p. 2.52, pi. 16, figs. 101,102. 



Ashmunella moooUonensis Pilsbry, Nautilus XXIX, 1915, p. 42. Pil'^bry & 

 Ferriss, Proc. A. N. S. Phila., 1917, p. 9.3, pi. 7, fig. 10 (shell), and pi. 10, 

 fig. 3 (genitalia). 



Professor E. 0. Wooten, who discovered this snail, crossed the 

 INIogollon Range from Willow to Silver Creeks, along what is now 

 called the Bursam road. He also made an excursion from the West 

 Fork of the Gila towards Mogollon Peak, reaching a point about 

 1| miles due east of the Peak, in the forks of Whitewater Creek, at 

 about 9,000 ft. It was probably here that he obtained the tj'pe of 

 .•1. mogollonensis, though it is also common along Silver Creek and 

 the Bursam Road. 



Specimens were taken along Silver Creek and the Bursam Road at 

 Stations 38, 42, 43, 44, 45, from about 7,500 to 9,000 ft. elevation, 

 and at Station 46, Little Turkey Creek, at about 9,000 ft. 



It is rather variable in size, specimens from Station 38 measuring 

 from 16.5 to 21 mm. diameter, those from Station 46 from 17 to 19 

 mm. Other localities in the Mogollons are Station 51, head of 

 Mineral Creek, where there are some beautiful albino shells, and 70, 

 76, 79, on Dry Creek, the shells mostly large. 



In Arizona it was taken in 1913 at Stations 59, 84, 86, all on or 

 near the rim of the Blue Mountains, at 5,500 to 12,000 feet. The 

 shells average larger than in the Mogollons, very few being under 

 20 mm. in diameter. Specimens from Station 59 measure: 




320 PROCEEDLNGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-DeC, 



Alt. 11.5 diam. 22.8 mm, 5| whorls. 

 u j^ u 21 '' 5f 



" 8.5 " 18.3 " 5| 



Extremes of size, Station 86. 



Alt. 11 diam. 22.8 mm. 5f whorls. 

 " 10 '' 19.5 '' 5f 



-4. mogoUonensis differs from A. c/jmca/iMana b}' the very small and 

 short penis, scarcely differentiated from the epiphallus; the absence 

 of a penial retractor muscle; and the more capacious spermatheca, 

 which is sacculate distally in some individuals. There are also dif- 

 ferences in the proportions of the organs, but whether constant or 

 not can be determined only by measuring a long series. In both the 

 epiphallus is very long. The shells can be distinguished by the 

 minute but deeply engraved spiral lines of A. mogoUonensis. 



Other species of Ashmunella from the Mogollon Mountains were 

 described in Nautilus XXIX, 1915, as follows: 



Ashmunella tetrodon Pils. & Ferr. Dry Creek. 



Ashmunella tetrodon mutator Pils. & Ferr. Dry Creek, 



Ashmunella tetrodon inermis Pils. & Ferr. Dry Creek. 



Ashmunella danielsi Pils. & Ferr. Cave Spring Canyon. 



Ashmunella danielsi dispar Pils. & Ferr. Little Whitewater Creek. 



Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. "ti.). P). VII, figs. ] to 0;. 



Mogollon Mountains, Socorro Co., New Mexico: Willow Creek, 

 Stations 46-48, at from about 8,300 to nearly 9,000 ft.; Silver Creek 

 and along the Bursam Road (above Mogollon), at about 7,500 to 

 9,000 ft., Stations 39, 40, 42, 42^, 43, 44; also Station 35. 



The specimens from these localities closely resemble those figured 

 by us from the Black Range, N. M. (in these Proceedings for 1917, 

 pi. 9, figs. 5-9), but there is greater variation in contour, as in 

 pi, VII, figs. 6, 6a from Station 42|, near the crest of the range, 

 measuring 



Alt. 13, diam. 21 mm. 

 " 16.5, '' 20 " 



The commonest form is like that shown in pi. 9, fig. 7 of our paper 

 of 1917; the size generally from 21 to 23 mm. diam. A large shell 

 from Station 48 measures, alt. 16.4, diam. 23.3 mm. At Stations 

 39 and 40 they are smaller, diam. 18 to 20 mm. The size is inde- 

 pendent of elevation, as there are larger shells both above and below 

 these stations in the Willow Creek region. 



In Arizona the same "Black Range form" of cooperi was found 

 on the southern slope of the Blue Mountains, Station 59 (1913), 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



321 



in Gosper's pasture, Station 58 (pi. VII, fig. 1) antl farther north- 

 ward in the southern part of Apache Co., on Mt. Thomas, White 

 Mountains, at Station 75 (1913). In all of these stations there are 

 the same capacious whorls and frequently very high spire noted in 

 the Mogollons. 



All of the preceding inhabit high elevations, and all were found 

 under logs and leaves in heavy timber, as in the Black Range of New 

 Mexico. The following lots were all among rocks (pi. VH, figs. 2-56). 



Farther down the Blue River (in Greenlee Co., Arizona), the species 

 was found as far as Station 23, east side of the river 2 miles above 

 the mouth of Grant Creek (pi. YII, figs. 5-56). While there is 

 abundant intergradation with the shells of higher elevations just 

 noticed, the majority of the shells are more openh' umbilicate. 

 Many have the spire very high, but this is variable in all the lots. 

 Three examples from Station 23 figured measure: 



Alt. 16, diam. 26.5 mm., umbilicus 4.7 mm. 

 . " 18, " 24 " " 4.5 " 



^" 17.8 " 23 " " 3 



The shells from Station 25 are almost as large; those from Stations 

 26 to 32 (going up the river) are smaller. Specimens from Station 

 29, 1 mile above Blue River Ranger Station (pi. VH, figs. 2-26) 

 measure : 



Alt. 17, diam. 22.3 mm. 

 " 18 " 22.2 " 

 " 15 '' 22 

 " 15.6, " 18 " 



Fig. 13. Orcohelix cooperi, albino, Station 29. 



There are some beautiful albino specimens in this lot (fig. 13). 

 Other examples are figured (pi. VII, figs. 3, 3a) from Station 27, 

 near the Blue River Ranger Station, where the shells are very dark 

 colored. One measures, alt. 13, diam. 20.5, umbilicus 5 mm. 



A series from Station 36, Mt. Lisa, Lisa Creek, Socorro Co., 

 N. ]\I., 20 miles north of Alma, is similar to those of Station 29, also 

 with not a few albino shells. 




322 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



The Blue River series shows all gradations of shape between very- 

 high shells, those of the typical cooperi contour, and an openly um- 

 bilicate shell with whorls of small caliber. The sculpture varies from 

 that of Black Range cooperi to more effaced, the striation and spirals 

 weak. 



Fig. 14. Genitalia of Oreohelix cooperi. a, Gosper's pasture; b, Blue River, 

 Station 26; c, form apache, Black River, Station 81. 



The genitalia (figs. 14a, h, c) agree with those organs in 0. cooperi 

 from the Black Range, N. M., figured in these Proceedings for 1917, 

 p. 101, fig. 5. The internally ribbed portion of the penis forms more 

 than half of the total length of that organ, as in all forms of 0. cooperi. 

 Measurements in mm. follow. Numerous other specimens opened 

 but not measured were seen to agree with those illustrated. They 

 are distinguishable at sight from all forms of 0. strigosa. 



Preparations are figured from Stations 26, Blue River (fig. lib), 58, Gosper's 

 pasture (fig. 14.i) and 81, Black River (fig. 14"). The specimen dissected from 

 Station 36 is an albino. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



323 



0. cooperi form apache, new form (pi. VII, figs. 7 to 8a). Rather 

 large size, dark or very dark coloring and subobsolete sculpture (the 

 spirals being especially weak) characterize the shells taken along the 

 Black River and Fish Creek, in Apache County, Arizona. The shell is 

 generally quite depressed and as openly umbilicate as the forms of 

 0. strigosa. The diameter is usually from 22 to 26 mm. Few have 

 the spire very high, and none are as high as many of the Blue River 

 shells. 



Fig. 15. Reproductive organs of OreohcUx strigosa meridionalis, the middle 

 figure drawn from the type specimen. 




324 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [Nov.-DeC, 



Alt. 15, diam. 24 mm., umbilicus 4.5 mm. 



Type No. 109,184, from Station 76 (1913), Black River 2 miles 

 above Fish Creek. It was taken also at Stations 53, 60-62, 64, 66, 

 68, 69, 71, 72, 76-81, 83 of the expedition of 1913. 



On account of the form and sculpture of this large series, so unlike 

 the usual forms of cboperi, it appears best to name it. The Blue 

 River series varies from the apache type to the normal cooper i form. 

 Indeed, specimens could be selected from the Mogollon series agree- 

 ing with apache, though they are quite exceptional there. The 

 genitalia are either practically typical cooperi, as at Station 76, or 

 the costate part of the penis may be relatively a trifle longer, as at 

 Station 81 (fig. 14c). 



Oreohelix strigosa meridionalis n. subsp. PI. VII, fig. 9. 



The shell is depressed and very openly umbilicate, the last whorl 

 subangular above the aperture; otherwise resembling 0. c. apache. 

 Striation weak, subobsolete spiral lines only very faintly developed. 



Alt. 14.4, diam. 24.5 mm.; umbilicus 6 mm. wide; 5^ whorls. 



Y Salt House branch of Eagle Creek, Graham Co., Arizona; type 

 No. 109,186 A. N. S. P. Also taken on the Black River near the 

 horseshoe bend. 



By the shells alone we would hardly separate this form from 0. 

 cooperi apache; yet the genitalia were found to be like 0. s. depressa. 



The genitalia (fig. 15) agree with those of 0. s. depressa and various 

 allied forms except that the organs are longer in shells of similar 

 diameter; yet in Colorado depressa this is a rather variable character, 

 and it is somewhat affected by the conditions of preservation. The 

 penis is very long, its internally costate portion hardly one-third of 

 the entire length, having about 4 principal ribs within; the internall}^ 

 papillose portion flattened, weakly ribbed within, sometimes having a 

 trilobed section distally. Measurements of the organs in mm. follow: 



0. s. meridionalis differs from 0. 

 smoother shell. 



s. depressa by the distinctly 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



Oreohelix barbata Pils. 



The occurrence of this species in the Mogollons was a surprise, 

 as it was described from the Cave Creek region of the Chiricahuas, 

 far to the south. It does not inhabit the dryer northern half of the 

 Ghiricahua range, and its distribution is therefore conspicuously- 

 discontinuous. It evidently changes much more slowly than the 

 Ashmunellas, though some little differentiation may be seen as noted 

 below. 



In Dry Creek, it was taken in the slides with Ashmimella, at Stations 

 62, 64, 68, 70, 72, 75, 77, 78 and 79. In most of these colonies it 

 reaches large size, even larger than in the Chiricahuas. Tw^o examples 

 from Station 79 measure: height 8, diam. 16 mm., and height 9, 

 diam. 15.4 mm. Usually there are several circular fringes on the 

 last whorl above the periphery, and more on the base than in Chiri- 

 cahua examples. In the latter, fringes above are exceptional. Count- 

 ing that at the periphery, there are usually 8 to 11 spiral wreaths in 

 Dry Creek barbala, 6 to 10 in Chiricahuan specimens. In some lots 

 the cuticular appendages are mostly or quite lost in the adult stage. 

 Some consist partly of smaller individuals; and at Stations 64 and 75 

 all are small, 11-12 mm. in diameter. 



Cave Spring Canyon, Station 57. Very small, about 10 mm. 

 diameter, and agreeing well with 0. b. minima P. & F. (Proc. A. N. S. 

 Phila. 1910, p. 94, fig. 15) from Rucker Canyon, Chiricahuas. There 

 is probably no direct relationship, each being presumably a dimin- 

 utive race of the normal larger forms of their respective ranges. 

 These small forms show decadence by the deep descent of the last 

 whorl to the aperture. 



Willow Creek, Station 46. This is on the eastern slope of the Mo- 

 goUon watershed. The size is small, diameter about 11 mm. Cutic- 

 ular appendages usually deciduous. 



Thysanophora hornii (Gabb). 



Arizona: Station 45 (1913), John Lyon's Mountain, north of the 

 Little Dragoons. Blue River, Station 18 (1914), and Little Blue 

 River, Greenlee Co. 



New Mexico: Station 76, Dry Creek, west side of the ]\IogolIon 

 Mountains. 



Thysanophora ingersoUi (Bid.). 



Arizona: Reservation Creek, 9,500 ft.; Fish Creek; Horseshoe 

 bend of Black River, and 2 miles above, at 9-10,000 ft. Apache Co. 

 Cosper's pasture, Graham^Co. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV. DeC, 



New Mexico: Stations 38, 42, 45, 51, 57 in the Mogollon Moun- 

 tains, abundant. 



ENDODONTID^. 



Gonyodiscus cronkhitei (Nc). 



Arizona: Gosper's pasture, 11,000 ft., and rim of the Blue Moun- 

 tains, 12,000 ft., Graham Co.; Blue River, Station 29 (1914), Green- 

 lee Co. White Mountain Camp at Mt. Thomas, 13,500 ft., Apache Co. 



New Mexico: Stations 36, 42, 45, 46, 57 in the Mogollon Moun- 

 tains, abundant. 



Radiodiscus millecostatus Pils. & Ferr. 



Arizona: Little Blue River, Greenlee Co.; Gosper's pasture and 

 Station 59, head of "hot air trail" rim of Blue Mountains, 12,000 ft., 

 Graham Co. ; Reservation Creek, Apache Co. 



New Mexico: Station 45, Willow Creek, Mogollon Mountains. 



Helicodiscus arizonensis (P. & F.). 



Arizona: Gosper's ranch, on the Blue River, 5,060 ft. 

 New Mexico: Stations 36, 42, 55, 57, Mogollon Mountains. 



Punctum conspectum (P>ld.). 



Arizona: Station 75 (1913), Thomas Peak, Apache Co. 



New Mexico: Willow Greek, Mogollon Mountains, at Station 

 45 (1914). 



These shells appear to be somewhat more glossy than the Cali- 

 fornians compared, the spiral striation better developed, and the 

 riblets irregularly developed; yet we would hesitate to separate the 

 specimens from this widely spread west coast species." 



Punctum pygmaeum (Drap.)- 



Arizona: Station 70 (1913), Black River near the Horseshoe 



bend; somewhat abundant. This is the first record of the species 



for Arizona. 



ZONITID^. 



Polita hammonis electrina (Gld.). 



Arizona: Station 80 (1913), Black River. One example. There 

 are no spiral striae. 



Polita indentata umbilicata (Ckil.) . 



Arizona: Blue River at Gosper's ranch, 5,060 ft., and Stations 



'^ A form of this species was collected in great numbers about bushes in a 

 meadow at the west end of Oswego, Clackamas Co., Oregon, by Mr. John A. 

 Allen in 1913 and 1914. It differs from typical P. conspectum by the larger size 

 and decidedly higher, conic spire, and may be called Punctum conspectum alleni. 

 The tvpe measures, alt. 1.7, diam. 2.3 mm. (No. 111,413 a, A. N. S. P.). A specimen 

 of P. conspectum received from Bland measures, alt. 1.25, diam. 2.1 mm. — H. A. P. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' 327 



18, 29 (1914); Little Blue; rim of Blue Mountains, 12,000 ft.; also 

 in Apache Co. on Fish Creek, 10,500 ft. 



New Mexico : Stations 38, 42, 46, 55, Mogollon Mountains. 



Striatura milium meridionalis (P. & F.). 



Arizona: Cosper's pasture, 11,000 ft., Graham Co.; Black River 

 and Reservation Creek, 9,500 ft., Apache Co. 



New Mexico: Station 57, south fork of Whitewater Creek, 

 ]\Iogollon Mountains. 



Zonitoides arborea (Say). 



Arizona: Station 29, Blue River; Cosper's pasture and rim of the 

 Blue Mountains, Graham Co.; Reservation Creek and Fish Creek, 

 Apache Co. Up to 12,000 ft. 



New Mexico: Stations 38, 42, 46, 50, in the Mogollon Mountains. 



Zonitoides minuscula alachuana (Dall). 



Arizona: Graham Mountain, Graham Co.; Station 6, foot of 

 Copper King Mountain. Reservation Creek, Apache Co. 

 New Mexico: Big Dry Creek, Mogollon Mountains. 



Zonitoides singleyana (Pils.). 



Arizona: Station 6 (1914), foot of Copper King Mountain, 1 mile 

 below Harper's, Graham Co. 



Euconulus fulvus (Miill.). 



Arizona: Station 58, Cosper's pasture, 59, rim of Blue Mountains, 

 Graham Co.; Reservation Creek and Station 75, White Mountain 

 Camp, 13,500 ft. 



New Mexico: Stations 38, 42, 45, 46, 47, 50, 53, in the Mogollon 



Mountains. 



VITRINID^. 

 Vitrina alaskana Dall. 



Arizona: Rim of Blue Mountains, 12,000 ft., Graham Co.; Res- 

 ervation Creek, Apache Co., 9,000 ft. 



New Mexico : Stations 45, 46, Willow Creek, Mogollon Mountains. 



VALLONIIDJE. 

 Vallonia perspectiva Sterki. 



Arizona: Graham Mountains; Cosper's ranch of the Blue River, 

 5,060 ft. ; Ole Hagen's ranch on Eagle Creek. Abundant. 



New Mexico: Station 38, Silver Creek above Mogollon, and 57, 

 south branch Whitewater Creek; also Big Dry Creek, Mogollon 

 Mountains. 



Vallonia cyclophorella Ckll. 



Arizona: Cosper's pasture and rim of Blue Mountains, Graham 

 Co.; Reservation Creek, Apache Co. 9,500 to 12,000 ft. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



FERUSSAOIDiE. 



Cochlicopa lubrica, (Miill.). 



Arizona: Graham Mountain; Little Blue River; Gosper's on the 

 Blue River; rim of Blue Mountains, Graham Co.; Fish Creek, Apache 

 Co. 



New Mexico : Stations 38, 42, 46, Mogollon Mountains. 



Pupiila blandi pithodes Pils. & Fen. 



Arizona: Reservation Creek, and head of Black River, Apache 

 Co.; Gosper's pasture, Graham Co. New Mexico: Stations 38, 

 45, 46, 47, 53 Willow Creek, Mogollon Mountains, at about 9,500- 

 10,000 ft. 



This is the same race found in great abundance along the summit 

 of the Black Range, N. M. It is larger, especially wider, than typical 

 P. hlaridi, the crest is weaker the striation stronger. The lip is but 

 little thickened within, and the three teeth are well developed. It 

 is of a walnut-brown color. 



Length 3.7, diam. 1.7 mm.; 7| whorls.] 



3.25 " 1.75" 6^ " 115,361 A. N. S. P. 

 3.05 '' 1.7 " 6| " J 



Pupiila hebes (Ancey). 



Arizona: Gosper's pasture and rim of Blue Mountains, Stations 

 58, 59, Graham Co.; Reservation Creek, Apache Co. 9,500 to 12,000 

 feet. 



Gastrocopta ashmuni ;Sterki). 



Arizona: Gosper's ranch on the Blue River, 5,060 ft.; Ole Hagen's 

 ranch. Eagle Creek. Very few found. 



New Mexico: 8 Stations in the Mogollon range. 



Gastrocopta dalliana (Sterki). 



Arizona: Station 6 (1914), foot of Copper King Mountain, near 

 Harper's place; Ole Hagen's, Eagle Creek, Graham Co. 



Gastrocopta quadridens Pils. 



New ^Mexico: Stations 42 and 47, Silver and Willow Creeks, 

 Mogollon Mountains. 



Gastrocopta pilsbryana (Sterki). 



Arizona: Graham Mountains; Ole Hagen's on Eagle Creek; Gos- 

 per's ranch. Blue River; Little Blue River; Gosper's pasture; 

 Horseshoe of Black River; Fish Creek. From about 5,000 to 11,000 ft. 



New Mexico: Stations 38, 45, 47, 50, on Silver, Willow, Turkey 

 and Big Dry Creeks, Mogollon Mountains. It is generally distrib- 

 uted over the wooded country covered in this report. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Vertigo ovata Say. 



Arizona: Station 6, foot of Copper King Mountain, 1 mile below 

 Harper's place, Graham Co. 



Vertigo concinnula Ckll. 



New Mexico: Stations 38, 42, 45, 50, 53 (1914), on Silver, Willow 

 and Turkey Creeks, MogoUon Mountains, Socorro Co. 



Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis P. & V. 



Arizona: Red Sack, Graham Mountains; Horseshoe bend of 

 Black River, Apache Co. 



New Mexico: Station 38, Silver Creek, 53, Willow Creek, 50, 

 Turkey Creek, 57, south fork Whitewater Creek, MogoUon Moun- 

 tains. 



Vertigo modesta ^nsculpta Pils. 



Arizona: Cosper's pasture and rim of Blue Mountains; Graham 

 Co.; Reservation Creek, White Mountains, Apache Co. 



Columella alticola (In^ersoll). 



New Mexico: Station 45, Willow Creek, MogoUon Mountains. 



SUCOINEID^. 



Succinea avara Say. 



Arizona: Cienega near Solomonsville, Graham Co. 



New Mexico : Station 46, Willow Creek, Mogollon Mountains. 



PHYSID^. 



Physa virgata Gld. 



Arizona: Stations 19 and 20, Blue River. 



Physa sp. undet. 



Arizona: Reservation Creek, near the Big Spring, Apache Co. 

 With only immature specimens and broken adults an identification 

 is difficult. 



UNIONID^. 



Anodonta dejecta Lewis. 



Arizona: Black River, southern border of Apache Co. 

 "Subfossil" valves of this species are found in the banks of the 

 Santa Cruz river at Tucson. 



Collecting Stations op J. H. Ferriss in Graham, Greenlee and Apache 



Counties, Arizona, in 1913. 



47. Near Mud Springs, trail on summit of Big Graham Mountains. 



48. Tank 10 miles south of SoIomonsviUe {Physa only). 



49. Swampy place 7 miles south of Solomonsville (Physa only). 



50. Rock slide on the right side of the toll road, 6 miles south of Coronado. 



Peloncillo Range. 



51. Eagle Creek. 



52. Eagle Creek, 3 miles above the fork, east bank. 

 23 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [NoV.-DeC, 



53-54. Eagle Creek, 5 miles above the forks. 



55. Eagle Creek, 5 miles above the forks, west side. 



56. Y Salt House branch (west fork) of Eagle Creek, Yi mile above Hot 



Air Salt House. 



57. 4 miles above mouth of Y salt house branch on Hot Air trail. 



58. Cosper's pasture, top of the Blue Mountains, 12,000 ft. 



59. Southern rim of the Blue Mountains. 



60. Fish Creek, beaver dam camp. Apache Co. 

 61-65. Rock slides along Fish Creek. 



66-72. Black River, near Horseshoe bend. 



73. Reservation Creek, 2 miles below Big Springs. 



74. Camp 4 miles below Big Springs {Physa and Pisidiuvi). 



75. Head of Black River, camp 2 miles below summit of Thomas Peak 



(summit 13,500 ft.). White Mts., Apache Co., Ariz. 

 76-83. Black River, 2 miles above Fish Creek. 



84. Y Salt House trail, rim of Blue Mountains, 12,000 ft. 



85. Below the same. 



86. Raspberry or East Eagle trail, 3 miles above Cosper's place on the Blue 



River. 

 87-88. Between Cosper's and the Little Blue River. 



89. Mouth of the Little Blue River, 4,000 ft. 



90. Spring 3 miles below mouth of Little Blue (Physa). 



91. Sardine Creek 1 mile above mouth. 



92. San Francisco River opposite Sardine Creek. 



93. Rock slide on the east bank of San Francisco River, 3 miles below Station 



92. 



Collecting Stations of J. H. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels in Graham and 

 Greenlee Counties, Arizona, and Socorro County, New Mexico, 1914. 



List compiled by Daniels. 



4. Gila River drift at Guthrie, Arizona. (Stations on the San Francisco 



River.) 



5. Ash Canyon one mile below Harper's on the "Frisco" (San Francisco) 



River, six miles above Clifton, Arizona. 



6. One mile below Harper's, west side of Frisco River, foot of Copper King 



Mountain. 



7. 8. Ash Canyon, above Station 5. 



9. Branch of Ash Canyon below Station 5, one mile below Harper's. 



10. Ash Canyon opposite Station 5, one mile below Harper's. 



11. Top of Copper King Mountain, N. W. of Colorado Mine. 6 miles above 



Clifton. Elevation 4,500 ft. 



12. Top of Copper Kmg Mountain, west of Colorado Mine. 4,500 ft. 



13. Shde on east bank of Frisco River, two miles above Harper's ranch and 



eight miles above Chfton. 



14. Frisco River, two miles above mouth of Blue River. 



(Stations on the immediate banks of the Blue River, Greenlee Co., Arizona.) 



15. Four miles u]) from the mouth of the Blue River. 



16. Five miles up the Blue River. 



17. 18. Six miles up the Blue River. 



19. Blue River at mouth of Pigeon Creek. 



20. One mile down the Blue River from Base Line Ranger Station, east bank. 



21. Little Blue River; same as Station 89 (1913). 



22. "The Chimneys," three miles above Cosper's Ranch. Elevation 5,853 ft. 



23. East side of Blue River one half mile below Grant Creek. 6000 ft. 



24. One mile above Grant Creek, east side of Blue River. 



25. Near Geo. Thompson's Ranch, three miles below Blue Post Office. 



26. One mile above Blue Post Office. Elevation 6,100 ft. 



27. 28. Near Blue Ranger Station. 



29. One mile above Blue Ranger Station. (Twenty-one miles south of Luna, 



New Mexico, and 65 miles north of Clifton, Arizona.) 



30. East side of Blue River, nearly at the top of the mountain. 



31. Blue River south of the saw mill. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



331 



(Stations in New Mexico.) 



32. East side of Blue River, one mile north of saw mill. 



33. East side of Blue River, three miles north of saw miU. 



34. Mill Hollow, near top of hill, San Francisco Mountain, 8,500 ft.; about 



8 miles southwest from Luna. 



35. Near the Alma Wagon Road, 10 miles from Luna, in a rock slide sur- 



rounded by poplars. Crest of San Francisco Mountains. 



36. Saliz Mountain, east side of Saliz Creek, 20 miles north of Alma, elevation 



7,000 ft. 



(Stations in the Mogollon Range.) 

 List compiled by Ferriss. Approximate positions are shown in fig. 16. 

 37-41. Along Silver Creek above Mogollon City. 



42. Near saw mill, head of Silver Creek. 



43, 44. Bursam Road, between Silver and Willow Creeks. 

 45-49. WiUow Creek. 



50. Turkey Creek. 



51, 52. Head of Mineral Creek. 

 53, 54. Head of Willow Creek. 

 55. Little Whitewater Creek. 



56-58. South Fork of Little Whitewater. 

 59. Cave on Spring Creek. 

 60-80. Big Dry Creek. 



yyictjcfl/m YT)ffUmldJns 



Fig. 16. Part of the Mogollon Moimtains, Socorro Co., N. M. Canyons 

 traced from U. S. Geological Survey Topographic Map, Mogollon Quadrangle, 

 and reduced Vo. 




332 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [NoV.-DeC, 



Explanation of Plates III to VII. 



Plate III. — Figs, la, lb, 2. — Sonorella odorata n. sp. Station 18 (1917), a gulch 



75 yards east of Alder Spring. No. 119,501. 

 Figs. 3, 3a, 36. — Sonorella odorata n. sp., type. Head of Alder Canyon. 



No. 119,033. 

 Fig. 4. — Sonorella odorata n. sp. Form with narrow umbilicus. Station 18 



(1913), Soldier Camp. No. 119,499. 

 Figs. 5-56. — Sonorella marmorarius limifontis n. subsp., type. Station 17 



(1913), bluffs near Mud Spring. No. 119,500. 

 Figs. 6, 6a, 66. — Sonorella odorata marmoris n. subsp., type. Station 36 



(1913), Old Dan Gulch, northwestern side of Marble Peak. No. 109,075. 

 Figs. 7, 7a. — Sonorella marmorarius imula n. subsp., type. Station 17 



(1917), limestone hill, 6 miles northwest of Brush Corral, in the northern 



foothills. No. 119,503. 

 Figs. 8-86. — Sonorella mormorarius imxda n. subsp. Station 19 (1917), 



same limestone hill. No. 119,502. 

 Figs. 9-96. — Sonorella marmorarius n. sp., t3rpe. Station 26 (1913), Marble 



Peak. No. 109,078. 



Plate IV. — Figs. 1-16. — Sonorella sabinoensis n. sp. Half mile west of camp near 



mouth of Sabino canyon. No. 109,094. 

 Figs. 2-26. — Sonorella sabinoensis n. sp., type. Station 16, mouth of Sabino 



Canyon. No. 109,097. 

 Figs. 3-36. — Sonorella sabinoensis n. sp. Station 16 (1913). No. 119,487. 

 Figs. 4-46. — Sonorella sabinoensis n. sp. Station 9, 2 miles above camp near 



mouth of Sabino Canyon. No. 119,488. 

 Figs. 5, 5a, and 56-5d. Sonorella sabinoensis n. sp. Bear Canyon, Station 



13 (1913). Depressed and elevated individuals. No. 119,490. 

 Figs. 6-66. Sonorella hesterna n. sp., type. Station 148 (1917), Shaw 



ranch, southern foothills of the Rincons. No. 119,489. 



Plate V. — Figs. 1-16. — Sonorella sabinoensis occidentalis n. subsp., type. Sta- 

 tion 36 (1917), south side of Pima Canyon. No. 119,491. 



Figs. 2-26. — Sonorella sabinoensis buehmanensis n. subsp., type. Station 44 

 (1913), Buehman Canyon near Korn Kobb mine. No. 109,198. 



Figs. 3-36. — Sonorella sabinoensis buehmanensis n. sp. Station 43 (1913). 

 Buehman Canyon. No. 119,492. 



Figs. 4-46. — Sonorella tortillita n. sp. Station 41 (1917), east side of Hog 

 Canyon, Tortilhta Mountains. No. 118,053. 



Figs. 5-56. — Sonorella galiurensis, n. sp. Station 30 (1917). Trail IJ^ 

 miles south of Copper Creek mining camp, Galiuro Mountains. Top and 

 face views of type, base of a paratype. No. 119,493. 



Figs. 6-66. — Sonorella galiurensis n. sp. These views of a topotype. No. 

 119,493o. 



Plate VI. — Figs. 1-16. Sonorella ccerulifluminis n. sp., type. Station 18 

 (1914), west side of Blue River 6 miles above mouth. No. 119,048. 

 Figs. 2, 2a, 3, 3a. — Sonorella coendifluminis n. sp. Station 19, Blue River 



at mouth of Pigeon Creek. No. 119,042. 

 Fig. 4. — Sonorella coerulifluminis n. sp. An albino specimen from the same 



station. No. 119,316. 

 Fig. 5. — Sonorella binneyi franciscana n. subsp., type. Station 92 (1913), 



east side of San Francisco River above Sardine Creek. No. 119,052. 

 Figs. 6-66. — Sonorella delicata n. sp. Type. No. 109,110. 

 Figs. 7-76. — Sonorella grahamensis n. sp. Type. No. 109,101. 

 Figs. 8-86. — Micrarionta prossidii n. sp. Type. No. 58,121. 

 Figs. 9-96. — Sonorella rooseveltiana Berry. Type Xl.6. No. 3733 Berry 

 collection. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Plate VII.— Fig. 1.— Station 58 (1913), Oreohelix cooperi (W. G. B.). Gosper's 



pasture, rim of Blue Mountains. No. 109,173. 

 Figs. 2-26. — 0. cooperi. Station 29 (1914), west side Blue River, 1 mile 



above Blue River Ranger Station, Arizona. No. 119,178. 

 Figs. 3, 3a. — 0. cooperi. Station 27, near preceding station. No. 119,179. 

 Fig. 4. — 0. cooperi. Station 32, east side Blue River, N. M. No. 119,497. 

 Figs. 5-56.— O. cooperi. Station 23, east side Blue River. No. 2. 

 Figs. 5-56. — O. cooperi. Station 23, east side Blue River, 2 miles below 



mouth of Grant Creek, Arizona. No. 119,150. 

 Figs. 6, 6a. 0. cooperi. Station 42^2, Bursam Road, head of Silver Creek, 



MogoUon Mts., 8,000 ft. No. 119,498. 

 Fig. 7. — 0. cooperi apache n. subsp., type. Station 76 (1913), Black River, 



2 miles above Fish Creek. No. 109,184. 

 Figs. 8, 8a. — 0. cooperi apache. Station 53 (1914). Black River. No. 



109,183. 

 Fig. 9. — Oreohelix strigosa meridionalis n. subsp., type. Y Salt House Fork 



of Eagle Creek. No. 109,186. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



December 17th. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the Chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The deaths of the following members were announced: 



Herbert Norris, M.D. 

 Benjamin H. Smith. 

 A. Robinson Mcllvaine. 



The reception of the following papers was reported: 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



NOTE ON GISTEL'S GENERA OF FISHES. 

 BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



In 1848, Johannes Gistel of Stuttgart published a peculiarly con- 

 fused and crabbed volume called Naturgeschichfe des Thierreichs, 

 fi'ir hohere Schulen, containing new generic names offered as sub- 

 stitutes for old ones, and in every department of Zoology. Most 

 of the names he proposed to change were regarded by him, often 

 without reason, as being preoccupied. The book seems to have 

 been overlooked by workers in systematic zoology, and in every 

 field. 



In this paper I give the names of genera of fishes, as offered by 

 Gistel. Nearly all of these occur in Gistel's introductory pages, 

 these having their pagination in Roman. For a transcript of the 

 names referring to fishes I am indebted to Mr. Barton A. Bean of 

 the U. S. National Museum, and to Mr. C. Davies Sherborn of the 

 British Museum. I have later received a copy of the book itself 

 through the courtesy of Mr. E. P. Van Duzee of the California 

 Academy of Sciences. 



Of Gistel's new names, the following seem to be valid : 



ABRON Gistel, p. X, replaces Platystoma Agassiz. 

 DAPALIS, p. XI, replaces Smerdis Ag. (fossil). 

 ENIXE, p. IX, replaces Drepane Cuvier, and also the substitute 

 name, Harpochirus Cantor, 1849. 



HYPODYTES, p. VIII, intended to replace Apistus or Apistes 

 Cuvier; but its use by Quoy and Gaimard is especially mentioned 

 and the language used (highly elliptical) {"Aspistes Quoy, Astrol., 

 Fisch.") would indicate that Apistus longispinis should be taken as 

 type. This species is type of Paracentropogon Bleeker, w^hich name 

 Hypodytes should apparently replace. 



NOTACMON, p. IX, replaces Eurynotus Ag. (fossil). 



ODONUS, p. XI, is offered as a substitute for Xenodon Riippell 

 (1835), preoccupied. It is prior to Erythrodon Riippell and Pyrodon 

 Kaup, also offered as substitutes. But Swainson in 1839 called the 

 same genus Zenodon, but whether offered by Swainson as a sub- 

 stitute or as a characteristic piece of carelessness is not made clear, 

 most Hkely the latter. Fowler accepts Zenodon as a substitute for 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF IHE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Xenodon, instead of Erythrodon. The question of Zenodon versus 

 Odonus may be left for later decision. 



PIRENE, p. IX, replaces Dasajllus Cuvier, on account of the 

 earlier .Z)asc?7ZMS. But Dascyllus has been sometimes spelled Das- 

 cillus. 



PERIURGUS, p. X, replaces Microps Ag. (fossil). 



PROSCINETES, p. X, replaces Microdon Ag. (fossil); this is 

 prior to Polypsephis Hay, 1899, also a substitute for Microdon. 



SECUTOR, p. IX, replaces Devezimentum Fowler. Secutor is 

 apparently intended as a substitute for Equula, but Gistel indicates 

 as his type Equula insidiator. He says: "Equula (E. insidiator, 

 Fisch.) Secutor N." Centrogaster equula Gmelin is, however, the 

 tautotype of Equula Cuv., which is a synonym of Leiognathus Lac. 

 Secutor {Deveximentu7n) is tangibly different from Leiognathus 

 {Scomber edentulus Bloch) as a genus or sub-genus. 



STREPHON replaces Brontes C. & V. if distinct from Ar„es 

 C. & V. 



STROTES replaces Platysomus Ag. (fossil). 



In case names differing from older ones only in gender or some 

 minor point in spelling are to be rejected as preoccupied, the follow- 

 ing additional names of Gistel would become tenable: 



ANALITHIS, p. X, intended to replace Platyrhina M. & H. on 

 account of the prior Platyrhinus. This antedates Garman's sub- 

 stitute name of Discobatus. 



ALAZON, p. X, intended to replace Poecilia, on account of the 

 earlier Pcecilus. 



ENGLOTTOGASTER, p. IX, to replace Oreinus on account of 

 Oreina. But the genus Oreinus is of doubtful validity. 



EURO, p. IX, to replace Eugnathus Ag., (fossil) on account of the 

 prior Eugnatha. 



MYRMILLO, p. X, to replace Mustelus Cuv. on account of the 

 prior Mustela L. It is equivalent to Pleuracromylon Gill. 



PEDITES, p. IX, to replace Macropodus Lac, an ill-formed 

 name, on account of the prior Macropus. This may perhaps be 

 allowed. 



PRENES, to replace Scatophagus Cuv., on account of Scatophaga. 

 This is prior to Cantor's substitute name of Cacodoxus (1849). 



RHADAMISTA, p. VIII, is offered instead of Ctenodus (fossil) on 

 account of the prior Ctenodon. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



AGOREION, p. X; presumable type Acanthoderma spinosum 

 Agassiz (fossil). This is offered as a substitute for "Scleroderma 

 Agassiz," used in Fungi, and in the form of Sclerodermus for a genus 

 of bees. But I find no genus "Scleroderma^' in Agassiz's works. 

 The name is probably a slip of memory, for Acanthoderma Agassiz 

 (1848), which is really preoccupied, Acanthoderma Cantraine (1835); 

 on this supposition Agoreion may be provisionally accepted in place 

 of Acanthoderma. 



SCROPHA, p. VIII, is offered in place of Ceratodus (fossil), on 

 account of Ceratodon. 



Other names suggested as substitutes are plainly inadmissible. 

 These among fishes are the following, arranged in the order given 

 by Gistel (the alphabetical order of the names to be displaced): 



CARCHARIAS, p. VIII, for Acanthias Risso, on account of the 

 prior Acanthia. But Acanthias is a synonym of Squalus L., as 

 properly restricted, and Carcharias is twice preoccupied. 



PELONECTES, p. VIII, for Acanthodes kg., said to be preoccu- 

 pied, which it is not, but is replaceable by the original form Acan- 

 thoessus Ag. 



GREMILLA, p. VIII, for Acerina Cuvier, but Acerina Giilden- 

 stadt, Cernua Schafer and Gymnocephahis Bl. & Schn. are older. 



ADIAPNEUSTES, p. VIII, substitute for Acrodus Ag. (1838), 

 WTongly regarded as preoccupied by Acrodon Zimm. (1840). 



HISTIODROMUS, p. VIII, for Anastomus Gronow, 1763; revived 

 by Scopoli, 1777, therefore not preoccupied by Anastomus Illiger, 

 1835. 



NOMALUS, p. VIII, for Ancylodon, preoccupied by another sub- 

 stitute name; Macrodon Schinz (1822). 



CERDO, p. VIII, as substitute for Aselhis Klein. Klein mentions 

 Asellus only in a footnote under Callarias (Gadus). The name 

 "Cerdones" appears in connection with the cod-fish, and Cerdo may 

 be regarded as a synonym of Gadus L. 



SCROFARIA, p. VIII, a needless substitute for Ausonia Risso, 

 itself a synonym of Luvarus Raf. 



GLISCUS, p. VIII, substitute for Blochius Volta (fossil) for no 

 reason, save Gistel's objection to personal names, in his scheme 

 allowable only among plants and the very lowest animals. 



THALASSOKLEPHTES, p. VIII, a substitute for Caninoa 

 Narclo, because it is improper to compare a prince (Charles Lucien 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC; 



Bonaparte, prince of Canino) to a shark; "1st denn der Prinz von 

 Canino mit einen Hayen vergleichlichf" 



CAPELLARIA, p. VIII, for Chironedes Cuvier, preoccupied, but 

 already replaced by A^itennarius Cuv. 



CiESO, p. VIII, a substitute for "Chrysophrys Rtippell," that is 

 for Chrysophrys her da Rlipp. ; a synonym of Sparus. 



ECHEMYTHES, p. VIII, an unexplained substitute for Chryso- 

 tosus Lac, itself a synonym of Lampris. 



RONCHIFEX, p. VIII, a substitute for Cossyphus Cuv., preoc- 

 cupied, but Bodianus Bloch and Harpe Lac, are still older names for 

 the same genus. 



PODAGER, p. IX, a substitute for Gerres Cuvier, on account of 

 Gerris, an older name of a genus of insects. Podager is preoccupied 

 in birds and thus cannot replace Gerres. We must use Catochcenum 

 Cantor (1849) if Gerres is discarded; but Gerres and Gerris are words 

 from different roots. 



SYNERGUS, p. IX, a substitute for Megalurus Ag. (fossil) pre- 

 occupied in mammals. But Synergus is also preoccupied (Hartig, 

 1840, a genus of bees). I have therefore proposed the new name 

 Urocles Jordan as a substitute for both Megalurus and Synergus, the 

 type being Megalurus lepidotus Ag. 



ELLOPS, p. IX, a substitute for Helops, a genus of sturgeons, 

 U?.o^ being the original Greek form. 



APECHES, p. IX, a substitute for Johnius Bloch, a personal name. 



NEANIS, p. IX, a substitute for Julis Cuvier, regarded as pre- 

 occupied by Julus L. But the two words are of different origin and 

 meaning. 



EXOLES, p. IX, a substitute for Lamia Bon., itself a synonym of 

 Lacuna Cuvier. 



APEPTON, p. IX, a substitute for Gouania Nardo, a personal 

 name. 



ANEPISTOMON, p. IX, a substitute for the preoccupied name 

 Leptorhynckus Smith, itself a synonym of Ophisurus Lac, as restricted. 



SPANIUS, p. IX, a substitute for the preoccupied name, Lep- 

 tosoma Nardo, which is itself probably a synonym of Monochirus Raf . 



MAINA, p. IX, a substitute for Lethrinus Cuvier, regarded as 

 preoccupied by Lethrus Fabricius, a genus of beetles. 



MASSARIA, p. IX, a substitute for Liparis, on the ground that 

 the latter is used in botany. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



ORODINUS, p. IX, a substitute for Lophotes Giorna, 1803, for 

 no reason. 



PASCHALTESTES, p. IX, a substitute for Macquaria Cuv. & Val., 

 a personal name, before it was applied to the river Maequarie. 



ARNION, p. X, an unexplained substitute for Mugil L. 



PLECTROSTOMA, p. X, a substitute for Oxyrhi7ia Ag., pre- 

 occupied. Both names are synonymous with Isur'us Raf. 



EUPORISTA, p. X, a synonym for Plagusia Bon, preoccupied. 

 Both names are synonymous with Symphurus Raf. 



DEPORTATOR, p. X, a substitute for Plotosus Lac, on account 

 of the similarity of Plotosus to Plotus L. 



DEMIURGA, p. X, a substitute for Rhina Bonaparte, a genus of 

 rays, on account of Rhina (Oliver, 1807), a genus of beetles. But 

 Rhina, in this connection dates from Schneider (1801). The name 

 Rhina was also employed by various writers in place of Squatina, 

 its first binomial use in this connection dating from 1810, although 

 occurring in polynomial reprints from Klein at earlier periods. 



If Rhina is used for Squatina, the name Demiurga should replace 

 Rhamphohatis Gill (1861), itself also a substitute for Rhina Schneider. 



CREOTROCTES, p. X, a substitute for Pelamys C. & V. (1831) 

 subsequent to Palamita Bonaparte, 1832, also a substitute for the 

 same preoccupied name, itself a synonym of Sarda Cuvier, 1829. 

 If Sarda Plumier (1802) { = Ocyurus Gill) is accepted Palamita 

 would hold. 



DENIUS, p. X, a substitute for Sargus Cuvier, preoccupied; both 

 are synonyms of Diplodus Raf. 



BORBORODES, p. X, a substitute for Scymnus Cuvier, preoc- 

 cupied in beetles. But the substitute name of Scymnorhinus Bona- 

 parte (1846) has priority. 



PEROPTERA, p. XI, a substitute for Perioptera Gistel, but I 

 find neither name elsewhere. 



ORTHOCOLUS, p. XI, a substitute for Thymallus Cuv., regarded 

 as preoccupied by Thymalus Latreille (1803), a genus of beetles. 

 But the root-words of the two names are different, and as a sub- 

 stitute for Thymallus, Choregon Minding (1832) is prior to Orthocolus. 



TROMPE, p. XI, 109; an unexplained substitute for Toxotes 

 Cuvier (1817), perhaps on account of the later Toxotus (1821). 



APHOBUS, p. XI, a substitute for Trachidermus Heckel, pre- 

 occupied as Trachyderma. But Centridermichthys Richardson (1844) 

 for the same group has priority over Aphobus. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



CHiETICHTHYS, p. XI, a substitute ior" Trichodon Cuvier, re- 

 garded as preoccupied by Trichoda and Trichodes, but the root- 

 meaning of Trichodon is different. 



LITHULCUS, p. XI, a substitute for Trichopodus (Trichopus) 

 Lac. (1802, p. 125), because used in botany. But the same genus 

 had been already called Osphromenus by the same author (p. 116). 



ENDYNAMA, p. XIII, 108; a substitute for Chrysophrys Cuvier, 

 itself a synonym of Spams L., as restricted. 



EUPNCEA, p. 105; type Plagusia lactea Bon., a synonym of Sy7n- 

 phurus Raf. 



ATTILUS, p. 109; a needless synonym of Umhrina Cuvier, "der 

 Schattenfisch." 



MELANTHA, p. 109; a needless synonym of Corvina Cuvier, "die 

 Seekrdhe." 




1918.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



NEW GENERA OF FISHES. 

 BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



In the preparation of a catalogue of the generic names which 

 have been apphed to fishes, the writer has noted a number of vaHd 

 genera and subgenera, which have either received no name or are 

 recorded under a name ah'eady preoccupied. Some of these form 

 the subject of the present paper. 



AORIA Jordan. 



Type: Bagrus lamarrii Cuv. & Val. 



A substitute for Macrones Dumeril, preoccupied by Macrones 

 Newman, 1841, a genus of Coleoptera. 



AZURELLA Jordan. 



■Type: Pomacentrus bairdi Gill, Microspathodon bairdi Jordan. 



This genus resembles Microspathodon Giinther, with which it 

 agrees in the peculiar dentition (uniserial, movable teeth) and in 

 general structure, differing in having the vertical fins not elevated 

 and the caudal simply limate. The nostril in Azurella bairdi is 

 much larger than in Microspathodon dorsalis, which species we infer 

 is congeneric with M. chrysurus (Cuv. & Val.), the little-known type 

 of the genus. The genus Stegastes Jenyns {S. iinbricatus) (1842) is 

 probably identical with Microspathodon (Giinther, 1862) and of ear- 

 lier date. This matter demands further investigation. 



COTYLICHTHYS Jordan. 



Type: C otylis fimbriata MxiWev &,Tvo^che[. 



The genus Cotylis, as first indicated by Miiller (Wiegmann's 

 Archiv., 1843, p. 297), contains but a single species, Cotylis nudus 

 M. &. T. = Lepadogaster nudus Bl. & Schn. = Gobiesox gyrinus 

 Jordan & Evermann, 1896 (not Cyclotperus nudus L., a species as 

 yet unrecognized). Cotylii M. & T. {nudus = gyrinus) is a synonym 

 of Gobiesox Lacepede; fimbriata therefore requires a new name, as 

 above. 



EPERLANIO Jordan. 



Type: Osmerus albatrossis Jordan and Gilbert, the 'Tvadiak 

 Smelt". 



This genus or subgenus differs from Osmerus in the very long anal 

 fin of twenty ra3^s. The teeth are much weaker than in Osmerus, 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



though stronger than in Spirinchus, the scales smaller, the gill- 

 rakers longer and the lower jaw heavier. Eperlanus is an old name 

 of the European smelt, Osmerus eperlanus L. It has been already 

 used as a synonym of Osmerus. Eperlanio is an unused variant. 



ERYTHROCLES Jordan. 



Type: Erythrichthys schlegeli Bleeker, the name a substitute for 

 Erythrichthys Temminck & Schlegel, preoccupied by Erythrichthys 

 Bonaparte (Saggio, 1831), based on Salmo erythrinus L. and there- 

 fore a synonym of Erythrinus (Gronow) Scopoli. Erythrocles is 

 one of several very closely related genera, Emmelichthys Richard- 

 son, Boxaodon Guichenot, Inermia Poey, Dipterygonotus Bleeker and 

 Plagiogeneion Forbes, but it seems to be distinct from all of these, 

 whatever their relation to one another. 



EXTRARIUS Jordan. 



Type: Hyhopsis tetranemus Gilbert. 



This genus is distinguished by the presence on each side of two 

 maxillary barbels as in the old-world genus Barhus. In other re- 

 gards it agrees with Macrhybopsis Cockerell {Gobio gelidus Girard). 

 No other known species of American minnow or chub has more 

 than two barbels. 



IRILLION Jordan. 



Type: Coregonus oregonius Jordan and Snyder. 



This genus differs from the other offshoots of Coregonus in the 

 long sharp nose, firm jaws, and in the very large adipose fin. It 

 frequents mountain streams and is as gamy as a trout. The name 

 is from "the merry wild Irillion rejoicing from fields of snow" of 

 Dunsany's dream world. 



NAUTOP^ffiDIUM Jordan. 



Type : Porichthys plectrodon Jordan & Gilbert = Batrachus porosis- 

 simus Cuv. & Val. 



This genus is closely allied to Porichthys Girard (notaius), differing 

 mainly in the palatine dentition. There are but four or five teeth on 

 each palatine, one or two of them developed as a strong canine. 

 In Porichthys there are many small palatine teeth, none of them ca- 

 nine-like. The name, Nautopcedium {'^ao-oTzacdur^, sailor-boy), refers to 

 the button-like luminous spots, which have suggested the vernacular 

 name of "Midshipman". 



OSHIMIA Jordan. 



Type: Micracanthus marchei Sauvage. 



Name a substitute for Micracanthus Sauvage, 1878, preoccupied 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



by Microcanthus Swainson, 1839, a misprint or misspelling of the 

 same word. This name is given in honor of Mr. Masamitsu Oshima, 

 scientific expert of Formosa and author of an admirable memoir 

 (now in press) on the river fishes of Formosa. 



RHEOCLES Jordan & Hubbs. 



Type: Eleotris sikorce Sauvage. 



This genus belongs to the Atherinidce, as Dr. Boulenger has sug- 

 gested. It is characterized by its robust form and its few gill-rakers 

 (about 10), which as figured by Sauvage (Poissons de Madagascar) 

 are notably short and thick. 



SYLETOR Jordan. 



Type: Pisoodonophis cruentifer Goode & Bean. 



This eel, one of the few which burrows into the flesh of fishes, is 

 clearly not a Pisoodonophis. "Its peculiar and savage physiognomy 

 due to the constriction of its neck" and the snake-like form of the 

 head with the powerful muscular enlargements of the cheeks dis- 

 tinguish it adequately from the other Ophichthoid eels with blunt 

 teeth (TuX-ijTcop^ a spoiler). 



UNAGIUS Jordan. 



Type: Cryptophthahnus rohustus Fra.nz (1910). 



The name Cryptophthalmus is preoccupied in Crustacea (Rafin- 

 esque, 1812) and in moUusks (Ehrenberg, 1831). Unagius may be 

 substituted for it. Unagi is the Japanese word for eel. 



UROCLES Jordan. 



Type: Megalurus lepidotus Ag. (fossil). 



This name is offered as a substitute for Megalurus Agassiz, 1833, 

 preoccupied in birds (Horsfield, 1820), and for Synergus Gistel 

 (1848), preoccupied in Hymenoptera, both these having the same type. 



VERATER Jordan. 



Type: Oligopus ater Risso = Pteridium atrum FiUppi & Verany. 



Substitute for Pteridium F. & V., preoccupied by Pteridium Sco- 

 poli, 1777, which is a substitute for Pteraclis Gronow, 1763 and 1772, 

 the use in 1772 unquestionably binomial. 



PNICTES Jordan. 



Type: Achiropsis asphyxiatus Jordan & Goss. 



This species of sole described from Goyaz, Brazil, differs from 

 Achiropsis Steindachner and from all other soles in the complete 

 obliteration of the gill opening of the right or eyed side. 



ERREX Jordan. 



Type: Glyptocephalus zachirus Lockington. This species, the 

 "Rex Sole" of the San Francisco fishermen, an excellent food-fish. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



differs from Glyptocephalus Gottsche, and from all other flounders, in 

 the very long and falcate pectoral fin of the right side, this fin being 

 longer than the head. 



AINIA Jordan. 



Type: Callopterus agassizi Thiolliere (fossil). 



A substitute name for Callopterus Thiolliere, 1858, preoccupied as 

 Callopterus Chaud., 1838, a beetle. The name is from the department 

 of Ain, in France, where the fossil in question was found. 



RAIAMAS Jordan. 



Type: Cyprinus bola Hamilton. 



A substitute name for Bola Giinther, 1868, preoccupied by Hamil- 

 ton. The species, Raiamas bola is well kno\vn to anglers in India, 

 as ''Rajah mas". 



TARSISTES Jordan. 



Type: Rhynchohatis Philippi, 1858. 



A substitute for the latter name, preoccupied as Rhynchohatus. 

 The genus is founded on a large ray with a linear, flat, paddle-like 

 snout, rounded at tip somewhat as in Polyodon and Mitsukurina- 

 Philippi gave to this animal no specific name. It may be called 

 Tarsistes philippii {rdfmoq^ an oar-blade) . The type is from the island 

 of Juan Fernandez, off the coast of Chili. 



VIGIL Jordan. 



Type: Pleurolepis pellucidus Agassiz. 



A substitute for Pleurolepis Agassiz, preoccupied in fossil fishes. 

 The type species is placed by Jordan and Evermann in Ammocrypta, 

 but Vigil pellucidus differs from Ammocrypta beani in having the 

 sides of the head scaly, the sides of body largely scaled and the 

 mouth much smaller. The name Vigil (on the watch) alludes to 

 the habit of lying motionless, buried in the sand, only the alert eyes 

 being visible. 



ORQUETA Jordan. 



Type: Micropteryx polycentrus Kner. 



Replaces Micropus Kner (S. B. Akad. Wiss. Wein, 1868, p. 28), that 

 name being four times preoccupied; Orqueta differs from Chloro- 

 scombrus Girard in the very much larger number of dorsal spines. 

 The name Orqueta is a Spanish vernacular for Chloroscombrus orqueta 

 Jordan and Gilbert on the west coast of Mexico. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



The following annual reports were ordered to be printed: 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



While the Recording Secretary has been able personally to dis- 

 charge the duties of his office during the year, he is indebted to the 

 Assistant Librarian, William J. Fox, for indispensable cooperation, 

 for which grateful acknowledgment is due. As was the case last 

 year, the statistics of administration have been prepared by Mr. Fox. 



Dr. J. Percy Moore and Dr. Philip P. Calvert have placed the 

 Secretary under obligation by acting as Recording Secretary during 

 the earlier meetings of the Academy and the Council, for which 

 sincere thanks are given. The By-Laws provide for the closing of 

 the academic year with the last of November. Since that period 

 last year meetings have been held on December 18, 1917; January 

 15th, February 19th, March 19th. April 9th, April 16th and Novem- 

 ber 16th of the current year. 



The meeting of April 9th was held in commemoration of the Presi- 

 dent, Samuel Gibson DLxon, M.D., LL.D., Sc.D., who died February 2d. 

 Dr. Dixon had been elected a member of the Academy February 25, 

 1890. He had served as President since 1896. The progress of the 

 society during the twenty-two years which have since elapsed is 

 Dr. Dixon's best memorial. Details of his services to science will 

 be found in the proceedings of the memorial meeting held in April. 

 As a mark of respect to the memory of Dr. Dixon the election of 

 his successor in the presidency was by resolution postponed until the 

 annual meeting. 



Communications were made at the meetings during the year by 

 Messrs. Harley Stamp, Philip P. Calvert, James A. G. Rehn, Witmer 

 Stone, Edwin G. Conklin, John Cadwalader, Benjamin F. Royer 

 and Henry Skinner. 



In addition to the Proceedings of the Dixon Memorial Meeting 

 papers were presented for publication by Henry A. Pilsbry, F. J. 

 Keeley, Henry W. Fowler, Anna M. Cullen, Janet P. Jameson, 

 Mitchell Carroll, Joseph Hall Bodine, Bruce Wade, James A. G. 

 Rehn and E. G. Vanatta. 



The sixteenth volume of the Journal was completed by the 

 publication of a beautifully illustrated paper by Clarence B. Moore 

 on the aboriginal antiquities of Florida. 

 24 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Three hundred and thirty-seven pages of the Proceedings were 

 issued with five plates. 



The Entomological Section (the American Entomological Society) 

 has published four hundred and thirty-seven pages of the Trans- 

 actions, illustrated by twenty-nine plates. Four hundred pages 

 of the Entomological News, illustrated by twenty plates, have 

 been issued. 



Parts ninety-six and ninety-seven of the Manual of Conchol- 

 OGY, comprising one hundred and eighty-eight pages, have been 

 completed by Dr. Pilsbry and distributed. 



Four members and seven correspondents have been elected. 

 Their names are recorded in the Proceedings as issued. 



The deaths of nine members were announced. 



Resignation of membership by G. B. Heckel was accepted. 



The death of Joseph Willcox, October 1st, deprived the Academy 

 of the services of one who had been interested in the mineralogical 

 work of the society since his election to membership in December, 

 1867. He had served for years as Custodian of the Isaac Lea collec- 

 tions, a position which he held at the time of his death. 



The Ludwick Institute Free Lecture Courses were delivered at 

 the Academy on Mondays, Thursdays and Fridaj^s, January 7th to 

 April 26th, by Witmer Stone, B. Franklin Royer, James A. G. Rehn, 

 Spencer Trotter, Henry A. Pilsbry, J. Percy Moore and J. Fletcher 

 Street. It was necessary early in the year, conforming to govern- 

 ment regulations, to change the lectures scheduled for Monday 

 evenings to Thursday evenings. To economize fuel it was also neces- 

 sary to give a portion of the course in the more easily heated library 

 hall. Ten of the lectures were on the natural history of Philadel- 

 phia and vicinity, especially adapted to school-children. The latter 

 were by Messrs. Stone, Moore, Street, Pilsbry and Rehn. 



Meetings of the Pennsylvania Audubon Society, the Babies' Wel- 

 fare Association, and the Philadelphia Pediatric Society were held in 



the Lecture Hall. 



Edward J. Nolan, Recording Secretary. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The following scientific men^ all Americans, were elected corre- 

 spondents: John Henry Comstock, Herbert Spencer Jennings, 

 Frank Rattray Lillie, Alfred Goldsborough Mayor, John Campbell 

 Merriam, George Howard Parker, and Charles Richard Van Hise. 



During the course of the year President Charles R. Van Hise and 

 Prof. Samuel W. Williston died. It is probable that the interruption 

 of correspondence with European countries prevented the verifica- 

 tion of the reported deaths of others. 



Foreign correspondence, which has been steadily decreasing dur- 

 ing the progress of the war, fell this year to its lowest ebb. 



Invitations were received to participate in the celebration of the 

 semi-centennial of the founding of the Kansas Academy of Science 

 and of the two-hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary of the University 

 of Lund. Prof. Samuel W. Williston was appointed a delegate to the 

 former and a letter of congratulation sent to the latter. 



From the Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Artes de 

 Rouen was received a copy of a resolution passed at a fete held at 

 the Academy on July Fourth expressing admiration for the course, 

 material and moral, taken by the United States and its President 

 "in defense of the Liberty, Law, Justice and Civilization of the 

 World". A letter of similar import was received from Emile Riviree, 

 a correspondent of the Academy. 



Inquiries for information were answered as usual. 



Statistics of the correspondence follow: 



Communications received : 



Acknowledging the receipt of the Academy's publications 69 



Transmitting publications to the Academy , 30 



Requesting exchanges or the supply of deficiencies 6 



Invitations to learned gatherings, celebrations, etc 2 



Notices of deaths of scientific men 2 



Circulars concerning the administration of scientific and educational 



institutions, etc 8 



Photographs and biographies of correspondents 3 



Letters from correspondents I eg 



Miscellaneous letters f 



Total received 176 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC.^ 



Communications forwarded : 



Acknowledging gifts to the Library 680 



Requesting the supply of deficiencies 155 



Acknowledging gifts to the Museum 76 



Acknowledging photographs and biographies 3 



Letters of sympathy or congratulation, addresses, etc 5 



Diplomas and notices of election of correspondents and delegates' creden- 

 tials 8 



Miscellaneous letters 121 



Annual reports and circulars sent to correspondents 14 



Total forwarded 1,062 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. Percy Moore, Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The efficient services reported last year as having been rendered 

 during the concluding months of 1917 by the Assistant Librarian, 

 William J. Fox, have been continued and the growth of the library 

 represented by the following report is the result : 



The total additions amount to 4,503, consisting of 4,061 pamphlets 

 and parts of periodicals, 293 volumes, 148 maps and one framed 

 portrait. 



They were received from the following sources : 



Exchanges 2,024 



Isaiah V. Williamson Fund 1,209 



United States Department of 



Agriculture 688 



General Appropriation for the 

 Purchase of Books 



Authors 



Pennsylvania State Library. . . . 



United States Department of 

 the Interior 



Editors 



American Entomological Society 



Imperial Department of Agri- 

 culture of the British West 

 Indies 



Trustees of the British Museum 



New York Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 



Samuel G. Gordon 



Secretaria de Agricultura y 

 Fomento, Mexico 



California State Commission of 

 Horticulture 



Cuerpo de Ingenieros de Minas 

 del Peru 



Water Supply Commission of 

 Pennsylvania 



Utah Agricultural College Ex- 

 periment Station 8 



88 

 62 

 56 



54 

 40 

 30 



22 

 16 



15 

 12 



11 



9 



9 



9 



James Aitken Meigs Fund 8 



United States Department of 



Commerce and Labor 8 



Vermont Agricultural Experi- 

 ment Station 8 



New York State Board of 



Charities 8 



Carleton College 7 



Thomas B. Wilson Fund 6 



Mrs. Samuel G. Dixon 6 



South Dakota School of Mines 6 



Edward J. Nolan 6 



Publication Committee of the 



Academy 5 



Commission of Conservation, 



Canada 5 



Dr. Henry Skinner 5 



Queensland Department of 



Mines 4- 



Indiana University 4 



United States War Department 3 



Government of India 3 



Witmer Stone 3 



Department of Conservation and 



Development, New Jersey ... 3 

 California Fish and Game Com- 

 mission 3 



Departmentof Fisheries, Bengal, 



Bihar and Orissa 2 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



349 



University of Wyoming 



National Academy of Sciences. . 



■Geological Survey of Georgia. . 



New South Wales State Fish- 

 eries 



Canada Department of the In- 

 terior 



Lowell Observatory 



American Iron and Steel In- 

 stitute 



Escola Superior de Agricultura 

 e Medicina Veterinaria, Pin- 

 heiro 



Michigan Geological and Bio- 

 logical Survey 



Nova Scotia Department of 

 Agriculture 



Roger Williams Park Museum 



Florida State Geological Survey 



W. L.Abbott, M.D 



Louisiana State Museum 



Pan-American Union 



Clarence B. Moore 



Illinois State Mining Board. . . . 



Universidad Nacional, Mexico. . 



Board of Water Supply, New 

 ■York City 



Observatorio de Madrid 



Colorado Museum of Natural 

 History 



Philip P. Calvert 



Scripps Institution for Biological 

 Research 



2 

 2 



2 



2 

 2 



2 

 2 

 2 

 2 



William J. Fox 



Delaware Valley Ornithological 

 Club..... 



Estacion Sismologica de Car- 

 tuja 



Iowa Geological Survey 



New York Archeological Asso- 

 ciation 



Commissioners of Fisheries and 

 Game, Massachusetts 



Zoological Society of Philadel- 

 phia 



Mechanics' Institute, San Fran- 

 cisco 



Scientific Society of San An- 

 tonio 



J. B. Haines 



Government of Formosa 



Hawaiian Entomological Society 



D. J. BuUock 



Department of Trade and Cus- 

 toms, Australia 



Los Angeles County Museum 

 of Natural History and Art . . 



Argentine Government 



Instituto de Butantan 



Art and Museiun Commission- 

 ers, Grand Rapids 



Department of Marine and 

 Fisheries, Canada 



St. Louis Natural History Mu- 

 seum Association 



They have been distributed to the various departments of the 

 hbrary as follows: 



Journals 2,858 



Agriculture 754 



Geology 373 



Geography 145 



Botany 118 



General Natural History 



Entomology 



Voyages and Travels 



Mineralogy 



Anatomy and Physiology. 



Ornithology 



Anthropology 



Physical Science. 



Ichthyology 



Mammalogy . . . . 



Conchology 



Medicine 



37 Mathematics. . . . 



25 Chemistry 



20 Herpetology .... 

 19 Bibliography. . . . 

 17 Helminthology . . 



15 Philology 



11 Miscellaneous... 



11 



11 



9 



8 

 8 

 7 

 5 

 3 

 2 

 2 

 1 

 44 



The following journals are new to the library: 



American Anatomical Memoirs. Philadelphia. 



Art and Museum Commissioners, Grand Rapids. Annual Report. 



Biochemical Journal. London. 



Biological Board of Canada. Bulletin. 



BrooMyn Botanic Garden. Memoirs. 



Escola Superior de Agricultura e Medicina Veterinaria, Pinheiro. Archives. 



Geographic Society of Chicago. Pubhcations. 



Illinois Natural History Society. Transactions. 



Instituto de Butantan. Collectanea de Trabalhos, 1901-17. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Instituto Geologico de Espana. Memorias. 



International Journal of American Linguistics. New York. 



Journal of General Physiology. Baltimore. 



Journal Russe de Zoologie. Petrograd. 



Junta de Ciencias Naturals de Barcelona. Publicacions. Series Geologica. 



Kansas Academy of Science. Bulletin. 



Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Selskab. Biologiske Meddelelser, Mathematisk- 



fisiske Meddelelser. 

 Laboratorio de Plasmogenia de la Habana. Boletin. 

 Madison Botanical Congress. Proceedings, 1893. 

 New York State Archeological Association, Morgan Chapter. Researches and 



Transactions. 

 New Zealand Journal of Science and Technology. Wellington. 

 Pan American Record. Los Angeles. 



Royal Geographical Society. Supplement of the Geographical Journal. 

 St. Louis Natural History Museum Association. Bulletin. 

 Societa Italiana dei Microscopisti. Bollettino. 

 Soil Science. New Brunswick, N. J. 



South African Institute for Medical Research. Publications. 

 South Australia Director of Mines and Government Geologist. Annual Report. 

 South Austrahan Museum. Records. 

 Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences. Museum Bulletin. 



Twelve hundred and twenty-five volumes and parts of period- 

 icals were used on the premises, while 59 volumes were borrowed. 



Four hundred and thirty-three volumes have been bound. 



The resignation of Furman S. Wilde as Assistant to the Librarian 

 was accepted. He has since been serving with the army in France. 



Five hundred and nine serials and twenty-two volumes have been 

 returned to the Superintendent of Public Documents, Washington. 



The continued cooperation of Miss War die in library service is 



gratefully acknowledged. 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The past year, on account of unprecedented conditions incident 

 to the war, has not been one in which any important work outside 

 the usual routine of the museum has been possible. Fuel restric- 

 tions have prevented the heating of the public halls and during cer- 

 tain days necessitated the closing of the work-rooms. One of our 

 janitors left our employ early in the year and in order to meet addi- 

 tional expenses elsewhere we have managed to avoid the necessity 

 of filling this position. The absence of several volunteer workers 

 during most of the year, and of Mr. Rehn for several weeks, all on 

 work connected with the war has hindered the progress of research 

 work to some extent, while the serious illness of Dr. Skinner has 

 kept him from his office for over two months. Notwithstanding 

 these hindrances, however, the Curators feel that they may con- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



gratulate themselves upon having been able to maintain the usual 

 Museum activities without any detriment to the collections or their 

 arrangement during these trying times. 



Early in the summer a competent steam engineer was engaged to 

 examine the entire heating plant and to draw up plans for remedy- 

 ing serious defects in the present system as well as for the installa- 

 tion of new boilers. We were fortunate enough to secure two 

 Spencer boilers, which have been placed in the engine house and 

 have already proved very satisfactory, although some of the repip- 

 ing is still unfinished. The expense of these important improve- 

 ments is covered by an appropriation made at the last session of the 

 State Legislature and referred to in our last report. 



The falling of certain sections of plaster ceiling has necessitated 

 the removal of all the ceiling covering in the mineralogical hall, with 

 the intention of substituting a sheet metal ceiling at the earliest 

 opportunity. 



Additional exhibits have been added to the collection of native 

 trees, to the local collection of birds and nests presented by the 

 Delaware Valley Ornithological Club, to the Clarence B. Moore 

 collection of Indian antiquities and to the William S. Vaux collec- 

 tion of minerals. 



Numerous classes of school-children have visited the Museum 

 during the year and various duplicate specimens, especially sets of 

 labelled minerals, have been presented to schools in Philadelphia and 

 vicinity. 



During the year Dr. Skinner made some important entomological 

 collections in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. 



Dr. Stone spent several weeks in making an exhaustive collection 



of the flora of southern Cape May County, N. J., and some local 



field work was carried on by other members of the Museum staff. 



Mr. Clarence B, Moore has also continued his explorations of the 



Indian mounds of the Southern States and presented the Academy 



with valuable material. Details of work in the several departments 



follow. 



Mammals. 



A number of valuable specimens received from the Zoological 

 Society of Philadelphia have been prepared as skins or skeletons, 

 while a large number of skeletons and skulls previously prepared in 

 the rough have been macerated, numbered and placed in the study 

 series. This work was carried on by the taxidermist, Mr. David 

 McCadden. Besides entering accessions the entire register of the 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Rhoads collection, numbering 4,390 entries, has been copied into the 

 regular mammal catalogue. 



Specimens have been loaned during the year to Dr. J. A. Allen 

 and Mr. A. H. Howell. 



Birds. 



A number of accessions to the local collection have been placed on 

 exhibition and much of the collection rearranged and relabelled. 

 The services of Miss Ruth Faries were secured during nine months 

 of the year and much needed clerical work was accomplished. Sev- 

 eral temporary catalogues were copied into the regular Academy 

 register, including that of the Hoopes collection, making a total of 

 some 14,000 entries. In addition new labels were prepared for all 

 the skins of the lower famihes of Passeres in the study collection, as 

 well as of the Tanagridae and most of the Fringillidse. 



The eggs in the Pennock collection and many of those in the Drown 

 collection were placed in glass-covered boxes and catalogued, while 

 many unmounted specimens of birds were converted into skin 

 specimens. 



Dr. Stone, although mainly occupied with the executive duties of 

 the Museum, revised several of the families in the study collection 

 and prepared a report on the Jewel collection of Panama birds, which 

 has been published in the Proceedings. 



The most notable accessions received during the year were the 

 Mrs. W. A. Drown collection of bird eggs and mounted birds, and 

 a collection of Colombian birds obtained by purchase. 



Dr. H. C. Oberholser, Mr. W. E. C. Todd, Mr. Edwin Ashby and 

 Mr, F. H. Kennard have made use of the collections, while specimens 

 have been loaned to Mr. Todd, Mr. C. B. Cory and Dr. C. W. Rich- 

 mond. 



Reptiles and Fishes. 



Mr. Henry W. Fowler, who has had charge of the fishes as well 

 as of the reptiles, reports that 1,783 fishes have been received during 

 the year, which have all been catalogued and labelled. He has also 

 critically identified some 400 species of fishes. These comprised 

 specimens in the Academy collection from Brazil, Panama, the West 

 Indies and Australia as well as our entire series of African fishes and 

 a collection from Samoa loaned by Capt. C. F. Silvester, from which 

 the Academy will receive duplicates. 



Two papers were published in the Proceedings on Philippine 

 fishes and on a collection received from Paraguay. Progress was 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



made on the critical study of the series of flying fishes, half-beaks 

 and green gars. 



General care of the collections (both of fishes and reptiles) has oc- 

 cupied considerable time, necessitating the rebottling and cleansing 

 of many specimens. 



Mr. Fowler did some field work in Perry County, Pa., and Cape 

 May Co., N. J. Specimens of reptiles were loaned during the year 

 to the American Museum of Natural History. Mr. Alex. Ruthven, 

 Dr. Thomas Barbour, Mr. F. N. Blanchard and Mr. Alvin Seal 

 spent some days in studying material at the Academy. 



MOLLUSKS. 



Dr. Henry A. Pilsbry, curator of Mollusca, reports that acces- 

 sions to the conchological department have been received from sixty- 

 seven persons and institutions. Among them may be mentioned a 

 series of Congo mollusks from the American Museum of Natural 

 History, including paratypes of many new species, and a consider- 

 able number of Hawaiian mollusks received from the Bishop Museum 

 and from Prof. W. A. Bryan. Mr. J. H. Ferriss shared his Arizona 

 collections of 1917 and 1918 with the Academy and Prof. Junius 

 Henderson has presented series of his Idaho and Colorado collec- 

 tions. 



The revision of the Academj- collection of Pupillidse has been con- 

 tinued in connection with the publication of a second volume on this 

 group in the Manual of Conchology. In collaboration with Mr. 

 Ferriss a report on the mollusks of the Santa Catahna mountains 

 and the MogoUon mountains, Arizona, has been prepared for pub- 

 lication. Mr. E. G. Vanatta has continued the arrangement of the 

 exhibition series of shells and Miss Caroline Ziegler has made good 

 progress in cataloguing the specimens. Considerable time has been 

 given to the determination of material for correspondents. 



Mr. J. A. Ferriss, W. H. Clapp and Edwin Ashby have spent some 

 time in studying in the department during the year, and specimens 

 were loaned to Mr. E. P. Chase, Dr. Paul Bartsch and Mr. J. B. Hen- 

 derson. Mr. R. T. Jackson also borrowed some fossil mollusca. 



Insects. 



The department of Entomology has had the usual care and atten- 

 tion given to it by those in charge. Dr. Henry Skinner and Mr. 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr., have looked after all the orders except the Or- 

 thoptera, which have had the attention of Mr. J. A. G. Rehn. The 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



accessions for the year amount to 2,953 specimens, most of which have 

 been incorporated in the collection. 



A number of families have been rearranged: the Scarabsediae, 

 Rhipiphoridse, Stylopidse, Cleridse, Malachidse, Meloidae and Bu- 

 prestidse in the Coleoptera; the Scathophagidse, Sepsidse and Ephy- 

 dridse in the Diptera, and the large series of exotic Noctuidse among 

 the Lepidoptera. Some valuable material in the last order col- 

 lected by Dr. Skinner in the White Mountains of New Hampshire 

 was incorporated in the collection. In the order Hemiptera the 

 family Cicadidse has been rearranged in accordance with identifica- 

 tions made by Mr. Wm. T. Davis, and in the Hymenoptera the 

 H. L. Viereck types of Andrena have been placed in the type series. 



In the Orthoptera besides the mounting and rearrangement of 

 material, studies have been made of an extensive series of Brazilian 

 material and three papers prepared and published upon it. A study 

 has also been made of our African material as well as of several Afri- 

 can collections loaned for identification, of which the Academy will 

 receive a series of duplicates. A paper was also published in the 

 Proceedings on the North American Eumastseinse, while corre- 

 spondence by Mr. Rehn has resulted in the receipt of valuable 

 material in return for determination. 



Several visiting entomologists, especiallly Dr. E. C. Van Dyke, have 

 made use of the collections and material has been loaned to J. R. 

 Malloch, J. S. Hine and R. W. Dawson. 



Plants. 



Mr. Stewardson Brown, who has had charge of the herbarium, 

 reports that during the year the herbarium of the late Charles S. 

 Williamson, presented by his sister Miss Mary Williamson, has been 

 distributed throughout the herbarium so that the specimens are now 

 readily accessible with the other material. The J. J. Carter her- 

 barium, the gift of Mr. H. S. Gatchell, has been in a great part mounted 

 ready for stamping and distribution. Numerous other collections 

 received from various sources have been mounted by Miss Ada 

 Allen, who has been continued as an aid in this work. 



The local collection has received considerable attention from 

 Mr. S. S. Van Pelt, who has mounted many specimens that have been 

 received. Mr. Bayard Long has also given the collection considerable 

 critical study. 



Minerals and Rocks. 



The Curators are indebted to Mr. F. J. Keelej'", Curator of the 

 William S. Vaux collection, and to Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, a student 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



on the Jessup I'und, for the care of this department. Mr. Gordon 

 has labelled and catalogued a number of accessions to the Wm. 

 S. Vaux and the general collections and prepared a check list of the 

 entire series. The William S. Vaux collection now numbers about 

 9,000 specimens, nearly half of which are on exhibition; the Academy 

 general series, 10,500 specimens, of which about 1,000 are exhibited, 

 and the Adam Seybert collection, which is kept separate, 1,825 

 specimens, while there are 80 falls of meteorites represented. 



The duplicate specimens not on exhibition are arranged sys- 

 tematically in storage cases immediately below the exhibition series 

 so that they may be consulted with the greatest ease. 



Mr. Gordon has overhauled a large number of mineral and rock 

 specimens received at various times and cleaned and labelled such 

 as are of value. The rock series now in the Academy's possession, 

 including the first and second Pennsylvania Geological Survey col- 

 lections, amounts to about 19,000 specimens. 



The most important accession during the year was the Mrs. W. 

 A. Drown collection, presented by Miss Emily Drown, comprising 

 some 6,000 specimens. It was especially notable for the large num- 

 ber of species represented, a number of which were new to our 

 collection. 



Archeology. 



Miss H. N. Wardle has overhauled several thousand specimens 

 mostly belonging to the Haldemann collection, which were stored in 

 the basement, and has cleansed and identified them, entering some 

 2,000 in the catalogue. Little new material was obtained during the 

 year. 



Mr. Clarence B. Moore's expedition during the spring of 1918 

 explored territory along the Apalachacola River, the Flint River to 

 Bainbridge, Ga., and the Florida coast from St. Andrew's Bay to 

 Crystal River. The result demonstrated how thorough had been 

 his earlier exploration of the same region, as little new material was 

 obtained. Pottery and artifacts regarded as duplicates were pre- 

 sented by Mr. Moore to the Museum of the American Indian, 

 Heye Foundation. Owing to necessary repairs to his boat Mr. 

 Moore was compelled to abandon his usual autumn expedition. 



Throughout the year the undersigned Curators have been without 

 the advice and counsel of their associate Maj. Henry Tucker, who 

 since the entry of America into the war has been in the service of 

 his country in the medical corps of the Army. 



WiTMER Stone, Chairman, 

 Henry A. Pilsbry. 




356 proceedings of the academy of [dec, 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections, 



December 1, 1918. 



Efforts during the past j^ear, in the direction of securing as many 

 rare and unusual species as possible, have resulted in the addition 

 of no less than 127 species not hitherto represented in the William 

 S. Vaux collection, of which number 87 were purchased and 40 se- 

 lected from the Drown collection. 



This brings the total number of distinct species in the collec- 

 tion up to 804, not including meteorites, hydrocarbons, varieties or 

 doubtful species. 



Altogether the number of accessions during the year exceeded 

 800, of which 104 were purchased, 700 derived from the Drown 

 collection, 3 presented by Mr, Thomas Harvey and 3 presented by 

 Mr. Samuel G. Gordon, who has continued his valuable services in 

 caring for the collection. 



^ Respectfully submitted, 



F. J. Keeley, Curator Wm. S. Vaux Collection. 



REPORTS OF THE SECTIONS. 



Biological and Microscopical Section. — The Section held six 

 stated meetings during the year, a reduction of the usual number 

 due to war regulations and the influenza epidemic. 



Communications on various subjects were made by members, 

 among whom may be mentioned Messrs. T. C. Palmer, Hugo Bil- 

 gram, Dr. Thomas S. Stewart, F. J. Keeley, B. F. Ray, Walter 

 Palmer, Dr. L. A. Faught and C. S. Boyer. 



The following officers were elected for the year 1919: 



Director J. Cheston Morris, M.D. 



Vice-Director T. Chalkley Palmer. 



Recorder and Corresponding Secretary . .Charles S. Boyer. 



Treasurer Thomas S. Stewart, M.D. 



Conservator F. J. Keeley. 



Charles S. Boyer, Recorder. 



Entomological Section. — Six stated meetings were held during 

 the year, with an average attendance of eleven persons. The deaths 

 of Erich Daecke, a contributor, and Benjamin H. Smith, a mem- 

 ber, were announced. Arthur H. Napier and George M. Greene 

 were elected members, and Francis M. James, Louis B. LaPlace, 

 Carl Lorup, A. Reginald Allen and Max Reyher were elected con- 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



tributors. Interesting communications were made by R, C. Wil- 

 liams, Jr., J. A. G. Rehn, P. P. Calvert, Henry Skinner, Philip Lau- 

 rent, Herman Hornig, Dr. P. W. Whiting, and Dr. J. Bequaert. 

 The following officers and committee were elected to serve for 1919: 



Director Philip Laurent. 



Vice-Director R. C. Williams, Jr. 



Treasurer E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator Henry Skinner. 



Secretary J. A. G. Rehn. 



Recorder George M. Greene. 



Publication Committee E. T. Cresson, 



Philip P. Calvert, 

 E. T. Cresson, Jr, 



E. T. Cresson, Jr., Recorder. 



Botanical Section. — The following officers were elected to serve- 

 during the year 1919 : 



Director Joseph Crawford. 



Vice-Director Alexander MacElwee. 



Recorder John W. Eckfeldt, M.D. 



Treasurer Stewardson Brown. 



Conservator Stewardson Brown. 



John W, Eckfeldt, M.D., Recorder. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section. — The Section held 

 four meetings, with the usual attendance. Prof. Wright discussed 

 the topography of the upper James River; there were also discussions 

 of peat growth, and of Tertiary coal. Other mineralogical and geologi- 

 cal matters were discussed. 



The Section made six field excursions with an average attendance 

 of eleven. The excursions were not formally announced, but were 

 orally noted. The excursions were all in the crystalline region of 

 Delaware County, except one in that of the Gulph region of Mont- 

 gomery County. 



The deaths of Prof. Carter, Mr. Schumo, Mr. DuBois and Joseph 

 Willcox were announced. They were active members of the Section, 

 and particularly interested in the field excursions. Mr. DuBois 

 was for many years an efficient member of the excursion committee. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



The officers elected for the coming year are : 



Director Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Vice-Director F. J. Keeley. 



Recorder and Secretary Wm. B. Davis. 



Treasurer Benjamin Smith Lyman. 



Conservator George Vaux, Jr. 



Benjamin Smith Lyman, Director. 



Ornithological Section. — The Section has done much to en- 

 courage ornithological activity at the Academy during the year. 

 The meetings of the Delaware Valley Ornithological Club and 

 Pennsylvania Audubon Society have been held in the building and 

 have helped to stimulate interest in this department of the Academy. 



At the annual meeting of the Section the following officers were 

 elected for the year 1919: 



Director Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Vice-Director George Spencer Morris. 



Recorder Stewardson Brown. 



Secretary. William A. Shryock. 



Treasurer and Conservator Witmer Stone. 



Witmer Stone, Conservator. 



The annual election of Officers, Councillors and members of the 



Committee on Accounts was held December 17th, with the following 



result : 



President John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D. 



Vice-Presidents Edwin G. ConkUn, Ph.D., Sc.D., 



Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D. 



Recording Secretary Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Corresponding Secretary J. Percy Moore, Ph.D. 



Treasurer George Vaux, Jr. 



Librarian Edward J. Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Curators Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., 



Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., 

 Henry Tucker, M.D., 

 Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



Councillors TO serve three YEARS.Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., 



Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, 

 T. Chalkley Palmer. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



Committee on Accounts Charles Morris, 



Samuel N. Rhoads, 

 John G. Rothermel, 

 Thomas S. Stewart, M.D., 

 Walter Horstmann. 



COUNCIL FOR 1919. 



Ex-Officio. — John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., Edwin G. Conklin, 

 Ph.D., Sc.D., Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Edward J. Nolan, 

 M.D., Sc.D., J. Percy Moore, Ph.D., George Vaux, Jr., Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., Sc.D., Henry Tucker, 

 M.D., Spencer Trotter, M.D. 



To serve three years, — Philip P. Calvert, Ph.D., Frank J. Keeley, 

 Walter Horstmann, T. Chalkley Palmer. 



To serve two years. — Charles P. Penrose, M.D., LL.D., Ph.D., Charles 

 Morris, Wm. E. Hughes, M.D., Spencer Trotter (elected Curator). 



To serve one year. — Edwin S. Dixon, Robert G. LeConte, M.D., 

 George Spencer Morris, Henry Skinner, M.D. (elected Vice-Presi- 

 dent) . 



Councillor George Vaux, Jr. 



Curator of Mollusca Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D. 



Curator of William S. Vaux Col- 

 lection Frank J. Keeley. 



Assistant Librarian William J. Fox. 



Assistants to Curators Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., 



Stewardson Brown, 

 Edward G. Vanatta, 

 Henry W. Fowler, 

 James A. G. Rehn, 

 Ezra T. Cresson, Jr. 



Aid in Archeology Harriet Newell Wardle. 



Aid in Herbarium Ada Allen. 



Taxidermist David McCadden. 



Janitors Charles Clappier, 



Daniel Hechler, 

 Jacob Aebly, 

 Adam E. Hechler. 



STANDING COMMITTEES, 1919. 



Finance.— Effingham B. Morris, John Cadwalader, A.M., LL.D., 

 Edwin S. Dixon, Walter Horstmann, and the Treasurer. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Publication. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Witmer Stone, A.M., 

 Sc.D., Henry A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., William J. Fox, Edward J. 

 Nolan, M.D., Sc.D. 



Library. — Henry Tucker, M.D., George Vaux, Jr., Frank J. Keeley. 



Instruction and Lectures. — Henry Skinner, M.D., Sc.D., Henry 

 A. Pilsbry, Sc.D., Charles Morris, James A. G. Rehn, George 

 S. Morris. 



ELECTIONS IN 1918. 



Members. 

 January 15. — Andrew J. Carty, Annabella E. Richards, Ph.D. 

 March 19. — Francis R. Cope. 

 April 16. — Geo. M. Greene. 



Correspondents. 



March 19. — John Henry Comstock of Ithaca, N. Y.; Herbert Spencer 

 Jennings of Baltimore, Frank Rattray Lillie of Chicago, Alfred 

 Goldsborough Mayor of Princeton, N. J., John Campbell 

 Merriam, Ph.D., of Berkeley, Cal., Geo. Howard Parker, Sc.D., 

 of Cambridge, Mass., Charles Richard Van Hise, Ph.D., LL.D., 

 of Madison, Wis. 




1918.] NATURAL • SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 1918. 



Mammals. 



Dr. J. P. Moore. Skin and skull of New York Weasel {Putoriics noveboracensis), 

 Delaware Co., Penna. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared in the following 

 manner: For mounting (skulls separate): Lion (Felis feo)cf . Indian Antelope 

 {Antilo'pe cervicapi~a) d' . As skin and skeleton: Orang-utan (Pongo -pygmoeus). 

 Wikl Horse {Equus prezavelskii) 9 • As skeleton: Warthog {Phacochoerus afri- 

 canus). Indian Tapir (Tapirus indicus). As skin and skull : Pinche Marmoset 

 (CEdipomidas oedipus). Texan E}Ta Cat (Felis cacomitli). Fishing Cat {Felis 

 viverrina). Binturong (Arctitis binturong) . Thibetan Blue Bear {Ursus prui- 

 nosus). Sun Bear (Helarctos malayanus). Sloth Bear (Melursus labiatus). 

 Mexican Raccoon {Procyon lotor hernandezi). Common Duiker {Cephalophus 

 grivimi). Indian Antelope (Antilope cervicapra) 9 ■ Audad {Ovis tragelaphus) 

 young. Coypu Rat (Myopotamus coypu). Common Dasyure (Dasyurus viacu- 

 latus). Squirrel-like Phalanger {Petaurus sciureus). As skulls: Mandrill 

 Baboon (Papio mormon) 9 . Woolly Spider Monkey (Brachyateles arachnoides) . 

 Humboldt's Woolly Monkey (Lagothrix lagotricha). Steller's Sea-hon (Eume- 

 topias stellen). Cape Hyrax (Procavia capensis). Lund's Opossum [Didelphis 

 albiventris) . 



Birds. 



Henry S. Bissex. Collection of mounted birds. 



Miss Emily Drown. Mrs. W. A. Drown's collection of birds' eggs and 

 mounted birds. 



J. W. Holman. Two Barred Owls {Syrnium nebidosum), West Creek, N. J, 

 Mrs. L. H. Parks. Collection of North American birds' eggs. 

 - Mrs. Frank Saracool. Mounted Short-eared Owl {Asia accipitrinus) . 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Specimens prepared as follows: 

 As skin and skeleton: Black-footed Penguin (Spheniscus demersus). As skeleton: 

 Somaliland Ostrich {Struthio molybdophanes) . As skin: Black Vulture (Cath- 

 arista urubu). As skulls: Canvas-back Duck (Marila valisineria) . Upland 

 Goose {doephaga magellanica) . Crested Curassow {Crax aledor). Golden 

 Eagle (Aqiiila chrysaetos). Brazilian Caracara {Polyborus tharus). Barn Owl 

 {Ahico pratincola). 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



A. de W. Bertoni. Small collection of reptiles and amphibians. Puerto 

 Bertoni, Paraguay. 



Dr. Henry Fox. Two toads {Scaphiopus holbrooki) and one salamander. 

 Clarksville, Term. 



Philip Laurent. Skink {Eumeces lineatus). Gunntown, Fla. 



Fishes. 



H. W. AiTKEN. Small collection of fishes. Connecticut and Florida. 



A. DE W. Bertoni. Small collection of fishes. Puerto Bertoni, Paraguay. 



Samuel C. Castner. Two specimens of Remora {Leptecheneis naucrates). 

 Cape May, N. J. Rabbit fish {Lagocephalus laevigatus). Cape May, N. J. 



25 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Field Museum OF Natueal History. (By exchange). Thirty-four Atherine 

 fishes. 



Museum of Comparative Zoology. (For determination). Ninety-two 

 loaches and three hundred and ninety-two cyrinoid fishes. India. 



Philadelphia Commercial Museum. Large collection of fishes. Philip- 

 pine Islands. Many interesting additions to the Academy's collection. 



C. T. Ramsden. Jar of Domitator maculatus (Bloch). Guantanamo, Cuba. 



Insects. 

 S. F. Aaron. Two katydids, Berks County, Penn.sylvania. 

 W. L. Abbott. Three insects, North Carolina. 

 C. P. Alexander. Twenty crane-fly larvae, United States. 

 W. L. McAtee. Fifteen Psyllidas, United States. 

 Annette F. Braun. Thirty-eight Microlepidoptera, Ohio. 



B. Preston Clark. Twenty-five Argynnis, Asia and Africa. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Fifteen exotic bees. Six fossil insects, one Coccid. 



W. J. Coxey. Two moths, Assam. 



R. W. Dawson. Three Serica, United States. 



W. T. Davis. One Orthopteron, Florida. 



Emily Drown. Large collection of Lepidoptera. 



Exchange. Two Catocaln titonia, Missouri. 



Exchange. Two hundred Ephydridse. 



J. H. Ferriss. Five Acrididse, Arizona. 



H. Fox. Fifty-five Orthoptera, Tennessee. 



J. M. Geddes. One hundred and twelve insects, British Guiana. 



G. M. Green. Eight Meloids, Virginia; four Orthoptera, Maryland; two Dip- 

 tera. United States. 



Wagner Green. Eight Coleoptera, United States. 



Morgan Hebard. Six Blattidse, Colombia; two Acrididae, California. 



Frank M. Jones. Forty-one Orthoptera, United States. 



H. H. Knight. Thirty-five Hemiptera, United States. 



Philip Laurent. Three Orthoptera, Florida. 



Charles Liebeck. One Earwig, Canada. 



Werner Marchard. Four Orthoptera and Hemiptera, United States. 



J. P. MooRE. One Hymenopteron, Utah. 



Robert K. Nabours. Five Acrididae, Texas and Mexico. 



J. K. Primm. Two Coleoptera, New Jersey. 



Purchased. Five hundred and seventy-five Orthoptera, Madagascar. 



Henry Skinner. Three moths, Florida; thirty insects, New Hampshire. 



Recent Mollusca. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott. Forty trays of shells from Haiti and Tennessee. 



J. Aebly. Three lots of marine shells from Greece. 



Alabama Museum of Natural History. Two trays of Lepyrium. 



C. C. Allen. Fifty-seven shells from Southeast United States. 

 American Museum Expedition. Seventy African land shells. 

 Charles H. Baker. Four lots of shells from Florida. 



F. C. Baker. Amnicola clarkei Pils. from Oneida Lake, New York. 

 Dr. Fred Baker. Tethys californica Cooper from La Jolla, California. 

 E. B. Bartram. Five trays of shells from Florida. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Dr. Joseph Bequaert. Two hundred and seventy-seven trays of shells from 

 Europe and Africa. 



Bernice Pauahi Bishop Museum. Thirty-eight lots of Lyropupa from the 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



S. S. Berry. Four trays of shells from California and Wyoming. 



Louis H. Bregy. Meretrix petechialis Lam. 



Prof. W. A. and E. J. Bryan. One hundred and ninety-six trays of Hawaiian 

 shells. 



E. P. Chace. Five marine shells from California. 



Asa C. Chandler. Eight lots of fresh water shells from Oregon. 



Dr. a. W. Cheever. Six trays of New England shells. 



G. H. Clapp. Liguus solidus Say from Big Pine Key, Florida. 



W. F. Clapp. Ten trays of land shells from the Philippine Islands and North 

 America. 



T. D. A. Cockerell. Eleven trays of shells from New Mexico. 



Emily Collins Collection. Epitonium pretiosa Lam. 



Ph. Dautzenberg. Four African land shells. 



C. B. DeHaven. Twelve marine shells from California. 

 ' Miss Emily Drow'n. Four trays of shells. 



Dr. Florentino Felippone. Two Mytilus from South America. 



J. H. Ferriss. Three hundred and seventeen trays of shells from southwestern 

 United States. 



J. H. Ferriss and L. E. Daniels. Thirty-five trays of land shells from Ari- 

 zona and New Mexico. 



G. M. Greene and F. Homer. Planorbis corneus rubra B. from an aquarium 

 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 



D. L. Brewer Hall Collection. Thirty-five lots of shells. 



J. B. Henderson. Seven lots of Dentalium from Florida and Cuba. 



Junius Henderson. Ninety-eight trays of shells from Colorado and Idaho. 



A. Jacot. Three land shells from Ithaca, New York. 



L. A. Keene. Eight species of Unionidce from Illinois. 



C. H. Knowlton. Two land shells from Vermont. 



Mrs. a. F. Letson. Five marine shells from the Hawaiian Islands. 



O. S. Lewis. Four trays of shells from Tennessee, Virginia and Indiana. 



Bayard Long. Nineteen trays of shells from the Eastern United States. 



Dr. Henry Loomis. Four hundred and forty-seven lots of Japanese shells 

 (purchased). 

 H. N. Lowe. Thirty-seven land and marine shells from Cahfornia. 

 J. G. Malone. Three slugs from Oregon. 



E. H. Matthews. Four Australian marine shells. 

 Rev. H. E. Meyer. Twenty-two trays of shells. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Nine trays of shells from Florida. 

 Dr. J. P. Moore. Two fresh water shells from Utah. 



Mrs. Ida S. Oldroit). Ten lots of shells from Western America. 

 C. R. Orcutt. Three trays of shells from Texas. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry. Twenty-seven lots of shells from Arizona and the 

 Hawaiian Islands. 



Dr. H. a. Pilsbry and J. H. Ferriss. Seven trays of Arizona shells. 



E. J. Post. Three species of shells from Canada. 



Purchased. Sixty-three species of land shells. 



Clare W. Ravenel. Twenty-one species of marine shells from Florida. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



De. Emmet Rixford. Micrarionta wolcottiana Bart, from Palm Springs, 

 California. 



S. Raymond Roberts. Corbula contracta Say from off Nantucket Shoals, 

 Massachusetts. 



Mariano S. Roig. Sixty-two Cuban marine shells. 



C. Henry Roney. Crepidula fornicata L. 

 Estate Dr. B. Sharp. Three lots of shells. 

 H. H. Smith. Three land shells from Tennessee. 

 Lloyd B. Smith. Twelve land shells from Haiti. 



Dr. V. Sterki. Four trays of North American land shells. 



J. K. Strecker, Jr. Five lots of shells from Texas. 



Mrs. Mary Ludwig Suydam. Collection of marine shells. 



D. Thaanum. Two Hawaiian marine shells. 



E. G. Vanatta. Five trays of shells. 



Bryant Walker. Six lots of shells from Texas and Canada. 



Mrs. Nina Winchester. Eighty marine shells from the Philippine Islands. 



Other Invertebrates. ■ 



H. W. Aitken. Several crabs, Connecticut and Florida. 



Emily Collins Collection. A barnacle and coral. 



C. B. De Haven. Chthamalus fissus Dar. from Santa Barbara, California. 



Dr. Florentino Felippone. Two lots of Balanus niveus Dar. from South 

 America. 

 H. E. Hubert. Balanus improvisus D. from Lake Pontchartrain, Louisiana. 

 Philip Laurent. Small collection of Crustacea, Florida. 

 Dr. Henry Loomis. Twenty-nine trays of crabs and Brachiopoda, purchased. 

 Mrs. Mary Ludwig Suydam. A sponge and corals. 



Vertebrate Fossils. 

 Miss Ruth Ann Sullivan. Mammoth tooth {Mammut primigenius) , Alaska. 



Fossil Invertebrate. 



S. S. Berry. Tetradita rubescens Dar. from Pt. Loma, California. 



David Dallam. One slab of Brachiopoda. 



Miss Emily Drown. Nucula from England. 



E. J. Post. Two trays of Brachiopoda from Canada. 



Lloyd B. Smith. Turritella gabbi B. and P. from Tierra Nueva, Haiti. 



Accessions: Minerals. 



Morrell G. Biernbaum. Quartz, Rowlandville, Phila., Pa.; Spinel, Frank- 

 lin, N. J.; Microcline, Frankford, Pa.; Muscovite, Broad and Olney Ave., Phila., 

 Pa.; Copper, SchwenksviUe, Pa. 



Mrs. M. B. Bradbury. Collection of minerals of Dr. N. R. Bradner. 



Miss Emily Drown. Collection of 6000 minerals. 



Dr. J. B. S. Egee. PicrophyU, Bavaria. 



Horace M. Engle. Molybdenite and Molybite, Ontario, Canada. 



Harold Evans. Pyrite, Moore Sta., N. J. 



V. W. Field. Cyanite and Sphalerite, Idaho. 



Hugh Alexander Ford. Chabazite, Avondale, Delaware Co., Pa. 




1918.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



Samuel G. Gordon. Orthoclase, St. Peters, Pa.; Talc, Lafaj^ette, Pa.; 

 Byssolite, Cornwall, Pa.; Ferruginous Quartz, Lehigh Co., Pa.; Aragonite, 

 Sterling Hill, N. J.; PjTrhotite, MacAfee, N. J.; Calamine, Friedensville, Pa.; 

 Pyrrhotite, Gottschall's Mine, Berks Co., Pa.; Calcite, Stilbite, Chabazite, 

 Laumontite, Calcite, Trap Rock, Berks Co., Pa.; Hematite, Garnet, Knauer- 

 town, Chester Co., Pa.; Limonite, Upper Alsace, Berks Co., Pa.; Turgite, Udree's 

 Mine, Berks Co., Pa.; Jefferisite, Brinton's Quarry, Chester Co., Pa.; Chabazite, 

 NatroUte, Lenni, Delaware Co., Pa.; Titanite, Frankford, Pa; Graphite, Zircon, 

 Stilpnomelane, Chalcopyrite, Hopewell Mine, Warwick, Chester Co., Pa.; 

 Magnetite, ChrysocoUa, Aragonite, Pyrite, Chalcopyrite, Jones Mine, Berks Co., 

 Pa.; Limonite, Fleetwood, Berks Co., Pa.; Albite, Paterson, N. J.; Calcite, 

 Ameha, Va.; Albite, Frankford, Pa.; Laumontite, Ward's Quarry, Delaware Co., 

 Pa.; Quartz, Overbrook, Phila., Pa.; Siderite, Ward's Quarry, Delaware Co., 

 Pa.; Orthoclase, CNeill's Quarry, Franlvford, Pa.; Calcite, Trap Rock, Berks 

 Co., Pa.; Deweylite, Magnetite, Lafaj^ette, Pa.; Covellite, Chalcopyrite, Calamine, 

 Phoenixville, Pa.; Stilbite, Frankford, Plaila., Pa.; Stilbite, Prehnite, Apophyl- 

 lite. Trap Rock, Berks Co., Pa.; Wavellite (7 specimens), Beraunite, Hellertown, 

 Pa.; Serpentine, Aragonite, Asbestos, Easton, Pa.; Calcite, Stilbite, Paterson, 

 N. J.; Microcline, Aragonite, Crocidolite, Calcite, Orthoclase, Galena, PjToxene, 

 WiUemite, Garnet, FrankUn, N. J.; Kaolin in limonite geodes, Oreland, Pa. 



H. Herwegh. Limonite pseudo-Pyi-ite, Howard House, Delaware Co., Pa.; 

 four stalactites. Crystal Cave, Kutztown, Berks Co., Pa. 



Charles W. Hoadlet. Microchne, Valhalla, N. Y. 



Frank P. Howe. Calamine, Embreeville, Tenn. 



Thos. Harvet. Fifteen minerals from Delaware Co., Pa. 



Howard Ktjlp. Calcite, Howellville, Chester Co., Pa. 



Bently R. Morrison. Chalcopyrite, Falls of French Creek, Chester Co., Pa.; 

 Orthoclase, Falls of French Creek, Pa. 



Frederick Oldach. Prehnite, Calcite, Stilbite, Apophyllite, Trap Rock, 

 Berks Co., Pa. 



Col. W. a. Roebling (by exchange). Amber, Roebling, N. J.; Mixite, Tin- 

 tic, Utah; Ettringite, Bellerberg, Germany, and Tombstone, Ariz.; Tamarugite, 

 Tarapaca, Chile; Elpidite, Greenland; Svanbergite, Wermland, Sweden; Hibschite, 

 Aussig, Bohemia; Crestmoreite, Riverside, Cal. 



Dr. John F. Rose. Vermiculite, Roseite (4 specimens). West Nottingham, 

 Chester Co., Pa.; Ligniform asbestus. Molybdenite, West Nottingham, Pa. 



Harry W. Trudell. Gj^psum, Falls of French Creek, Chester Co., Pa. 



H. L. WiLLiG. Margarite, Pequea ]\Iine, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Picrolite, Chro- 

 mite, Deweylite, Wood's Chrome Mine, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Talc, Wliite Rock, 

 Lancaster Co., Pa.; Calcite, Wabank, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Limonite pseudo- 

 pyrite. Chestnut Hill, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Galena, Rutile, Chloritoid, Pequea 

 Mine, Lancaster Co., Pa.; PjTrhotite, Comog, Chester Co., Pa.; Tourmahne, 

 Smoky Quartz, Gap Mines, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Tourmaline, Welsh Mt., Lancaster 

 Co., Pa.; Cacoxenite, Beartown, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Kaolin, Narvon, Lancaster 

 Co., Pa.; Calcite, Billmeyer Station, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Fluorite, Lancaster Co., 

 Co., Pa.; Sihcified Wood, Elizabethtown, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Tennantite, Bam- 

 fordville, Lancaster Co., Pa.; A.sbestus, White Rock, Lancaster Co., Pa. 



H. F. Zerger. Pyrite, Columbia, Pa.; Andradite, Serpentine, Cornwall, Pa. 



Purchased. For Wm. S. Vaux Collection 104 specimens. 



Herbarium. 



Dr. W. L. Abbott. Small collection of plants from Doubling Gap,'^Cum- 

 berland Co., Pa. 



H. G. Alleb.\ch. Helenium nudiflorum, Green Lane, Pa. 



Walter M. Benner. 14 specimens from Easton, Pa. 



O. H. Brown. 115 sheets of flowering plants, Cape^May, N. J. 



Macy Carhart. Small series of ferns from New Jersey. 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [DeC, 



Charles C. Dean. A small collection of local plants. 



Exchange. N. Y. Botanic Garden, 123 sheets of Jamaican plants; Gray 

 Herbarium, 556 sheets of Newfoundland and Labrador plants. 



H. L. Fisher. Plantago major, Annandale, N. S. 



C. D. Fretz. 44 sheets of plants, Bucks Co., Pa. 



F. J. Keeley. Camptosaurus rhigophius, Chester Co., Fa. 



Bayard Long. 30 sheets of Eragrostis peregrina, eastern Fenn'a and N. J. 



J. P. Otis. 25 local plants and a small collection from California. 



Harold W. Fretz. 460 sheets of plants, Lehigh Co., Fa. 



Purchased by the Academy. 1000 specimens of New England plants. By 

 the Botanical Section 475 New England plants, 170 Florida plants and 350 CaU- 

 fornian plants. 



Geo. Redles. Fertile fronds of Mattenccia stridhiopteris from Wissahickon 

 Creek. 



WiTMER Stone. Ilex opaca, Cape May Ft., N. J. 



U. S. Dept. Agriculture. (Through Dr. C. L. Shaw.) Plants from Chester 

 Co., Fa., from herbarium of Dr. Ezra Michener. 



Archeology. 



Miss Dewey. Dance Spear and Belt from South America. 

 Miss Emily Drown. Roman Antiquities, etc. 

 Mrs. L. Brown Hall. Arrowpoint. 

 Philip Inman. Arrowpoints from Florida. 

 Clarence B. Moore. Additions to the Moore Collection. 

 C. Henry Roney. Aboriginal workshop material from near Bethlehem, Pa. 

 By Purchase. Collection of ethnographica from the Pacific and from South 

 America. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1918. 



PLATE III. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: SOUTHWESTERN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 191W. 



PLATE IV. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: SOUTHWESTERN MOLLUSCA. 





PKOC. ACAD. NAT. ..SCI. PHILA. .19.18. 



PLATE V. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS : SOUTHWESTERN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 19lS. 



PLATE VI. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: SOUTHWESTERN MOLLUSCA. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1918. 



PLATE VII. 



PILSBRY AND FERRISS: SOUTHWESTERN MOLLUSCA. 





1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



367 



INDEX TO GENERA, SPECIES, ETC., DESCRIBED OR 

 REFERRED TO IN THE PROCEEDINGS FOR 1918. 



Species described as new are indicated by heavy-faced, synonyms by 



italic numerals. 



Abracris caeruleipennis 183 



dilecta 183 



Abron 335 



Abudefduf antjerius 54 



melanopselion 58, 59 



parasema 56 



philippinus 54 



Acantheremus elegans 198 



Acanthias 337 



Acanthoderma 337 



Acanthodes 337 



Acanthodis aquilina 196 



consanguinea 196 



Acanthoessus 337 



Accipiter bicolor 249 



collaris 249 



velox 249 



Acerina 337 



Acheta assimilis 314- 



Achiropsis 343 



Acontiothespis eximia 165 



Acrodon 337 



Acrodus 337 



Acrydium seneo-oculatum 183 



flavo-lineatum 184 



punctatum 169 



Actitis macularia 245 



Adiapneustes 337 



Aegialitis collaris 245 



semipalmata 244 



Agoreion 337 



Ainia 344 



Alazon 336 



AUotettix peruvianus 167 



Amaurospiza concolor 275 



Amazona autumnalis salvini 251 



farinosa inornata 251 



ochrocephalus panamensis 251 



Amazilia 255,256 



tzacatl tzacatl 255 



Amazilis 255,256 



latirostris 255 



Amblycercus holosericeus 280 



Amia melas 17 



radcliffei 25 



savayensis 27 



sealei 20 



wilsoni 22 



Ammocrypta 344 



Analithis 336 



Anaplecta 145 



bivittata 145 



replicata 144 



Anaplops bicolor 261 



Anas platyrhynchus 247 



Anastomus 337 



Anaulacomera nodulosa 195 



Anaxipha augusticollis 214 



aptera 220 



cayennensis 221 



conspersa 215 



esau 214 



fistulator 225 



incompta 222 



minuta 220 



nitida 221 



paraensis 222 



simulacrum 217 



smithi 220 



stramenticia 227 



tibialis 222 



variegata 221 



Ancylodon 337 



Anepistomon 338 



Angela quinquemaculata 1 66 



Anodonta dejecta 329 



Ansonia • 337 



Anthoscenus longirostris longiros- 



tris ; ;■- ;• 256 



Anthracothorax nigricollis nigri- 



coUis 256 



Anthus parvus 273 



Antrostomus rufus rufus 253 



Anurogryllus muticus 209 



Aoria 341 



Apaches 338 




368 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 01 



[Dec, 



Apepton 338 



Aphemogryllus 209 



gracilis 210 



Aphobus 339 



Aphonomorphus griseus 230 



major 230 



surdus 230 



Apistes S35 



Apistus.. 335 



Apotettix bruneri 168 



Ara ambigua 251 



chloroptera 251 



macao 251 



severa 251 



Aramides cajanea 243 



Archamia zosterophora 28 



Ardea herodias lessonii 246 



Arges 336 



Argia moesta putrida 75-81 



talamanca 81-85 



Argizala brasiUensis 208 



Argyxosomus goldmani 43 



Arnion 339 



Arremon aurantiirostris 277 



Arremonops conirostris coniros- 



tris 276 



Ashmunella chiricahuana mogol- 



lonensis 319 



danielsi 320 



d. dispar 320 



mogoUonensis 319 



pilsbryana 319 



tetrodon 320 



t. inermis 320 



t. mutator 320 



Asellus 337 



Asterina nitida 249 



Astragalinus psaltria croceus 277 



Atalotriccus pilaris pilaris 264 



Attila citreopygus citreopygus 269 



Attilus 340 



Aurigequula 17 



Automolus palUdigularis pallidigu- 



laris 262 



Azurella 341 



Bagrus lamarrii 341 



Barbus 342 



Bartramia longicauda 245 



Bastileuterus rufifrons mesochry- 



sus 274 



semicervinus veraguensis 274 



Bertoniolus 141 



paraguayensis 141 



Blatella titsnia 157 



Blatta americana 161 



australasiae 161 



grisea 160 



pellucida 157 



Bliastes submarginatus 197 



Blochius 337 



Bodianus 338 



Bombycilla cedrorum 273 



Borborodes 339 



Botaurus lentiginosus 247 



Boxaodon 342 



Brontes 7 336 



Brotogeris jugularis 251 



Bucephalacris falcifer 180 



Busarellus nigricollis 249 



Buteo platypterus 249 



swainsoni 249 



Butorides striata 247 



virescens hypernotius 247 



Cacicus microrhj'nchus 280 



vitellinus.... 280 



Cacodoxus 336 



Caeso 338 



Cairina moschata 247 



Callarias 337 



Callimantis eximia 165 



Callopterus 344 



Callyodon phiUppinus 66 



Camptostoma pusillum flaviventre 265 

 Campylorhampus venezuelensis.... 263 



Caninoa 337 



Capellaria 338 



Capito macuUcoronatus maculico- 



ronatus 258 



Capsiempis flaveola 265 



Carcharias 337 



Cariblatta igarapensis 157 



Caryothraustes poliogaster scapu- 



laris 276 



Cassidix orizivora violea 280 



Catharista urubu 248 



Cathartes aura aura 248 



Catochsenum 338 



Celeus loricatus loricatus 259 



Centridermichthys 339 



Centurus subelegans wagleri 259 



Ceophloeus lineatus mesorhjaichus 259 



Ceraia capra 190 



Ceratodus •_ 337 



Cerchneis sparveria sparveria 250 



Cercomacra nigricans, 260 



tyrannina tyrannina 261 



Cerdo 337 



Cernua ••• 337 



Chaemepelia rufipennis rufipennis 242 



minuta elaeodes 242 



Chaenaxis intuscostata 303 



Cha!tichthys 340 



Chaetura chapmani 253 



cinereiventris fumosa 253 



Chalybura buffoni ' 256 



Cheilogipterus aquila 43 



Cheiloprion labiatus 53 



Chironectes 338 



Chiroprion lanceolata 268 



Chloroceryle aenea aenea 252 



amazona 252 



americana isthmica 252 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



36& 



Chloroceryle inda 252 



Chloroaerpes callopterus 259 



Chlorophaaes spiza guatemalensis. 277 



Chloropseustes 175 



leucotylus 177 



Chloroscombrus 344 



Chlorostilbon assimilis 256 



Chordeiles acutipeunis texensis 253 



virginianus virginianus 253 



Choregon 339 



Chorisoneura parishi 163 



Chromis cseruleus 66 



philippinus 63 



scotochilopterus 61 



Chrysophrys 338,340 



Chrysotosus 338 



Chrysotrogon caligatus 257 



Ciccaba nigrolineata nigrolineata.. 251 



virgata virgata 251 



Circu-s hudsonius 248 



Claravis preticsa 243 



Clupea fasciata 17 



Cnipodectes minor 266 



subbrunneus 266 



Coccycua rutila panamensis 257 



Coccyzus americanus americanus.. 257 



Cochlearius zeledoni 247 



Cochlicopa lubrica 304, 328 



Coelophyllum coriaceum 196 



rectinerve 196 



Coereba mexicana 277 



Colpolopha obsoleta 170 



Columba nigrirostris 242 



rufina pallidicrissa 242 



speciosa 242 



subvinacea subvinacea 242 



Columella alticola 329 



Colymbus dorminicus brachja-hyn- 



chus 244 



Conocephalus brunneri 199 



cocanus 199 



fratellus 198 



frater 198 



nigropunctatus 198 



Copiphora cornuta 197 



Copurus leuconotus 263 



Coregonus 342 



Corvina 340 



Coryphotriccus albovittatus 266 



Corythroichthvs matterni 11 



Cossyphus ".... 338 



Cotinga nattereri 270 



Cotylichthys 341 



Cotylis 341 



fimbriata 341 



Craspedoprion aequinoctialis 263 



Crax panamensis 242 



Creciscus albigularis 244 



Creotroctes 339 



Crotophaga ani 257 



sulcirostris 257 



Cryptophthalmus 343 



Crypturus soui modestus 241 



Ctenodus..... 336 



Ctenoglyphidodon 58 



Curucujus clathratus 257 



massena 257 



melanurus macrourus 257 



Cyanerpes cyaneus 277 



lucidus 277 



Cyanocompsa concreta cyanescens 275 



Cyanocorax affinis zeledoni 280 



Cymbilaimus lineatus fasciatus 259 



Cynanthus 256 



latiirostris 256 



Cyprinus bola 344 



Cyrtoxipha angusticollis 214 



aptera 220 



conspersa 215 



nitida 2.31 



smithi 220 



tibiaUs .222 



variegata 221 



Cyrtoxiphus aztecus var. ca j'ennen- 



sis 221 



Dacnis cayana ultramariaa 277 



Dafila acuta 247 



Damophila panamensis 256 



Dapalis 335 



Dascillus 336 



Dascyllus 336 



Datnia argentea 36 



plumbea 36 



Deconychura typica 262 



Demiurga 339 



Dendrociricla homochroa ruficeps.. 262 



lafresnaj'i ridgn'ajd 262 



Dendroeolaptes sancti - thomae 



sancti-thomae 263 



Dendrocygna autumnalis 247 



Dendroica aestiva aestiva 274 



castanea 274 



cerulea 273 



coronata 273 



erithachorides 274 



fusca 273 



magnolia 273 



pensylvanica 273 



virens 273 



Denius 339 



Deportator 339 



Derichthys 3 



Deveximentum 336 



Diophanes salvifolium 197 



Diplodus 339 



Dipterygonotus 342 



Discobatus 336 



Dolichonyx oryzivocus 280 



Doru lineare 144 



Dorjdchthys philippinus 13 



Drepane • 33S 



Drombus 69 



maculipinnis 6& 




370 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Dromococcyx phasianellus 257 



Dumetella carolinensis 272 



Ecchaunornis radiatus fulvidus 259 



Ji^chemythes 338 



Egretta candidissima 246 



Elaenia chiriquensis chiriquensis. . . 265 



martinica subpagana. 265 



Elainopsis gaimardii macilvainii... 269 



illanoides forficatus 250 



Eleira 14 



Electron platyrhynchus minor 252 



Ellops 338 



Emmelichthys 342 



Empidonax albigularis 267 



flaviventris 267 



minimus 267 



traillii alnorum 267 



t. trailii 267 



virescens 267 



"Enallagma 103 



TEndynama 340 



^neoptera incompta 222 



Englottogaster 336 



TEnixe 335 



Eomorphopus granulatus 167 



Eperlanio 341,342 



"Eperlanus 342 



Ti^pilampra conspersa 160 



grisea 160 



lucifuga 160 



ISpinephelus matterni 31 



Equula 336 



Tlrator albitorques 269 



Ereunetes pusillus ._ 245 



Erionotus punctatus atrinucha 260 



:Errex 343 



"Erythrichthys 342 



schlegeli 342 



Erythrocles 342 



Erythrodon.... 335,336 



Ti^ucometis cristata 279 



Euconulus fulvus 302, 327 



Eucypyga major 246 



Ti]ugnathus 336 



l^^upnoea 340 



Euporista 339 



TCupsittula ocularis 251 



T^^urynotus...... 335 



Exoles 338 



:Extrarius 342 



Talco albigularis 250 



columbarius 250 



Florida caerulea 246 



Elorisuga mellivora 254 



Forficula linearis •■ 144 



Tormicarius moniliger panamensis 261 



Fregata minor palmerstoni 248 



Furo 336 



•Gallinago delicata 246 



«Gastrocopta ashmuni 304, 328 



Gastrocopta bilamellata 304 



cochisensis 304 



dalliana 304,328 



pellucida hordeacella 304 



pilsbryana 304, 328 



quadridens 304, 328 



Geranospizias niger 249 



Gerres 338 



Glaucus hirsuta affinis 254 



Gliscus 337 



Glyphorhynchus cuneatus pectora- 



lis 262 



Glyptocephalus 344 



Gonyodiscus cronkhitei 301, 326 



Gouania 338 



Gremilla 337 



Gryllacris cruenta 207 



harpistylata 204 



Gryllotalpa didactyla 207 



Gryllus aquilinus 196 



assimilis 214 



collaris 170 



convolutus 213 



minutus 220 



muticus 209 



myrtifolius 195 



surinamus 171 



tucumanensis 213 



verticalis ,. 213 



xanthochlorus 170 



Gundlachia californica 305 



Gymnocephalus 337 



Gymnocichla nudiceps nudiceps.... 261 



Gymnostinops montezuma 280 



Gypagus papa 248 



Haplovoluta 114 



bicarinata 114 



Harpagus bidentatus 250 



Harpe 338 



Harpiprion cayennensis 246 



Harpochirus 335 



Heleodytes albobrunneus 271 



Helicodiscus arizonensis 301, 326 



Heliornis fulica 244 



Heliothryx barroti 256 



Helodromas solitarius solitarius 245 



Helops 338 



Hemigryllus ortonii 208 



Hemiramphus limbatus 3 



Henicorhina prostheleuca pittieri.. 272 



Herodias egretta 246 



Herpetotheres cachinnans 250 



Hetaerina americana 107 



Heterospingus rubrifrons 279 



Himantopus mexicanus 245 



Hirundo erythrogaster 270 



Histiodromus 337 



Holocompsa 145 



Homorocoryphus brunneri 199 



cocanus 199 



Hoplochromis 66 




1918. 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



371 



Hybopsis tetranemus 342 



Hydranassa tricolor ruficollis 247 



Hydrochelidon nigra surinamensis. 244 



Hygronemobius albipalpus 208 



Hyllus 114 



Hylocharis eliciae 256 



Hylocichla fuscescens fuscescens.... 273 



ustulata swainsonii 273 



Hylomanes momotula obscurus 252 



Hylopezus perspicillatus perspicil- 



latus 262 



Hylophylax naevioides 261 



Hypodytes 335 



Ibycter americanus 248 



Icterus galbula 280 



giraudii 280 



mesomelas salvinii 280 



spurius 280 



Ictinea plumbea 250 



Inermia 342 



lonornis martinicus 244 



Iridoprocne albilineata 270 



Irillion 342 



Ischnoptera castanea 149 



clavator 152 



. crispula 146 



imparata 149 



nyctiboroides 156 



Ischnura 103 



Ixobrychus exilis 247 



Jacamerops aurea 258 



Jacana melanopygia 246 



nigra 246 



Jodacris caeruleipennis 183 



Johnius 338 



Julis 338 



Lamia 338 



Lampris 338 



Laniocera rufescens 268 



Lanivireo flavifrons 273 



Lathria unirufa clara 269 



Legatus albicoUis 265 



Leiognathus 336 



fasciatus 17 



philippinus 15 



Leistes militaris 280 



Lepidopyga cseruleogularis 255 



Leptodon uncinatus 250 



Leptopogon flavovirens 265 



pileatus 265 



Leptorhynchus 338 



Leptosoma 338 



Leptotila cassini cassini 243 



verreauxi verreauxi 243 



Lerneca varipes 214 



Lethrinus 338 



Leucolepis lawrencii 272 



Leucopternis ghiesbreghti 250 



semiplumbea 2.50 



Leurophyllum consanguineum 196 



maculipenne 196 



Linoceratium boucardi 169 



Liparis 338 



Lipaugus holerythrus holerythrus.. 269 



Lithulcus .340 



Locusta cornuta 197 



salvifolia 197 



Lophomis delattrei 2.57 



Lophotes 339 



Macquaria 339 



Macrhybopsis 342 



Macrodon 337 



Macromantis ovalifolia 166 



Macropodus 336 



Macropus 336 



Macrorhamphus griseus griseus... 245 



Maina 338 



Malacoptila panamensis panamen- 



sis 259 



Manacus vitellinus 268 



Mantis flavoguttata 167 



quinquemaculata 166 



Marila affinis 247 



Massaria 338 



Mastusia caeruleipennis 170 



Mecistogaster modestus 86-103 



Megalurus 535,343 



Megaquiscalus major macrourus .... 280 

 Megarynchus pitangua mexicanus 266 

 Melanerpes pucherani pucherani... 259 



Melantha 340 



Melestora minutissima 161 



Meroncidius submarginatus 197 



Mesopristes 36 



plumbeus 36 



Micracanthus 342 



Micrarionta 139 



praesidii 312 



Micrastur guerilla interstes 248 



melanoleucus 248 



mirandoUei 248 



Microbates cinereiventris semi- 



torquatus 261 



Microcanthus 343 



Microcerculus luscinia 272 



Microdon 336 



Micronotus caudatus 168 



Microps 336 



Micropus 344 



Microrhopias boucardi virgata 260 



Microspathodon bairdi 341 



Microtriccus brunneicapillus 269 



Milvago chimachima 248 



Miogryllus convolutus 213 



tucumanensis 213 



verticalis 213 



Mionectes olivaceus olivaceus 265 



Mionyx 167 



Mitrospingus cassini 279 



Mitsukurina 344 




372 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec;,. 



Mniotilta varia 273 



Mobula eregoodoo-tenkee 2 



Momotus subrufescens conexus 252 



Mona?a fidelis 259 



similis 259 



Monochirus 338 



Morphuus guianensis 250 



Miigil 339 



lepidopterus 9 



ogilbyi 5 



philippinus 7 



ruthveni 3 



Muscivora tyrannus 268 



Musonia lineativentris 167 



major 167 



surinama 167 



Mycteria americana ._ 246 



Myiarchus crinitus .". 267 



ferox panamensis 267 



nigriceps 267 



Myiobius barbatus atricaudus 267 



xanthopygus sulphureipygius. 267 



Myiochanes brachytarsus 267 



richardsoni richardsoni 267 



virens 267 



Myiodynastes luteiventris 266 



maculatus nobilis 266 



Myiophobus fasciatus furfurosus... 266 



Myiozetetes cayanensis cayanensis 265 



granadensis 266 



texensis columbianus 265 



Myriopagis placens accola 264 



Myrmeciza boucardi panamensis... 261 



exsul exsul 261 



Myrmillo 336 



Myrmopagis fulviventris 261 



melaena 261 



Myrmotherula pygmaea 260 



surinamensis 260 



Nautopsedium 342 



Neanis 338 



Nemipterus luteus 36 



Nemobius albipalpus 208 



argentinus 208 



brasiliensis 208 



hebardi 208 



ortonii 208 



Neoblatella conspersa 156 



pellucida 157 



titania 157 



Neochelidon tibialis 270 



Neoconocephalus f ratellus 1 98 



nigropunctatus 198 



Neomorphus salvini 257 



Nomalus 337 



Nonnula frontalis 259 



Notacmon 335 



Notharchus hyperrhynchus dysoni 259 



pectoralis 259 



tectus subtectus 258 



Numenius hudsonicus 245 



Nyctibius grandis 252 



grisens panamensis 252 



Nycticorax nycticorax naevius 247 



Nyctidromus albicollis albicollis.... 252 



Obeliscus abbotti 238 



Ocyurus 339 



Odontophorus guianensis marmo- 



ratns 242 



Odontosagda abbotti 237 



Odonus 335 



Ommatolampis 185 



Ommexecha giglio-tosi 169 



Omochelys 3 



Omura congrua. 169 



Oncostoma cinereigulare 264 



olivaceum 264 



Onychorhynchus mexicaniis frater- 



culus 266 



Ophisurus 338 



Oporornis formosus 274 



Philadelphia 274 



tolmiei 274 



Opsomala cylindrodes 170 



Oreohelix cooperi 320 



strigosa meridionalis 324- 



Oreopeleia montana 243 



Orodinus 339 



Orqueta 344 



Oreinus 336 



Ornismia cinnamomea 256 



rutila 256 



Orphulella boucardi 169 



punctata 169 



Ortalis cinereiceps 242 



Orthocolus 339- 



Orthorhynchus amizili 255, 256 



Oryzoborus funereus 275 



Oshimia 342 



Osmerus 341,342 



albatrossis 341 



Osmilia flavo-lineata 184 



Otocinclus vittatus 141 



Otus choliba 251 



vermiculatus 251 



Oxyblepta xantochlora 170 



Oxyechus vociferus vociferus 245 



Oxyrhina 339 



Pachyrhamphus cinereus 269 



cinnamomeus 269 



dorsalis 269 



polycropterus cinereiventris.... 269 

 Pachysylvia aurantiifrons auran- 



tiifrons 273 



decurtata 273 



viridiflava 273 



Palamita 339 



Panchlora bidentula 161 



exoleta 161 



Pandion haliaetus carolinensis 250 



Parableta integricauda 192 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



373 



Paracentropogon 335 



Paradon paraguayensis 141 



Parafusiis 114 



callilateras 114 



coloratus 114 



Paralobaspis personata 202 



Parastagmatoptera flavoguttata.... 167 



Paratropes elegans 160 



Paschaltestes 339 



Pelamys _. 339 



Pelecanus occidentalis 248 



Pelonectes [ 337 



Penelope cristata 242 



Perioptera 339 



Periplaneta americana 161 



australasiae 161 



Periurgus 336 



Peroptera 339 



Petroehelidon lunifrons tachina. 270 



Phaenostictus mcleannani mclean- 



nani 262 



Phalacrocorax vigua vigua 248 



Phalloceros caudimaculatus 141 



Phengopedius fasciatoventris al- 



bigularis 272 



hyperythrus 272 



PKlugiola redtenbacheri 201 



Phlugis chelifera 199 



marginata 199 



Phoenicothraupis fuscicauda 279 



Phoeochroa cuvieri cuvieri 254 



Phoethornis adolphi saturatus 254 



longirostris cephalus 254 



Phoraspis elegans 160 



Phyllodromia conspersa 156 



Phylloptera marginella 195 



Physa virgata 306, 329 



Piaya cayana thermophila 257 



Picolaptes lineaticeps lineaticeps... 263 

 Picuminis olivaceus pauamensis.... 259 



Pilherodius pileatus 247 



Pionus menstruus 251 



Pipra mentalis ignifera 268 



velutina 268 



Pipromorpha oleaginea pai'ca 264 



Piranga erythromelas 279 



rubra rubra 279 



Pirene 336 



Pisobia fuscicoUis 246 



maculata 246 



minutula 246 



Pisoodonophis 3,343 



boro 3 



cancrivorus 2 



cruentifer 3 



Pitangus lictor 266 



Pittasoma michleri michleri 262 



Pitylus grossus 276 



Placostomus superciliaris 263 



Plagusia 339 



lactea 340 



Planesticus grayi casius 272 



Planesticus obsoletus 273 



Platyphyllum maculipenne 196 



Platypsaris homochrous 269 



Platyrhina ggg 



Platysomus ggg 



Platystoma 335 



Plectrostoma 339 



Pleurolepis 344 



Plogiogeneion 342 



Plotosus S39 



Pnictes 343 



Podager 333 



Pcecilia 330 



Polioptila superciliaris superciliaris 271 



Polita hammonis electrina 326 



indentata umbilicata 302, 326 



Polydactylus plebius 43 



Polyerata amabilis 255 



Polynenus paradiseus 43 



quinquarius 43 



Polj^odon 344 



Polypsephis 336 



Pomacentrus bairdi 341 



burroughi 48 



grammorhynchus 44 



hebardi 46 



lividus 53 



opisthostigma 51 



violescens 43 



Popelairia conversii aequatorialis.. 257 



Porichlhys 342 



Porzana Carolina 243 



Prenes 336 



Progne chalybea chalybea 270 



Promusonia 167 



Prosagoga coriacea 196 



rectinervis 196 



Proscinetes 336 



Proscopia scabra 168 



Protonotaria citrea 273 



Pseudomops affinis 146 



angusta 146 



annulicornis 145 



Pteraclis 343 



Pteridium 343 



Pteroglossus torquatus torquatus.. 258 

 Pulsatrix perspicillata perspicillata 251 



Punctum californicum 302 



conspectum : 326 



c. alleni 326 



pygmaeum 326 



Pupilla blandi pithodes 328 



hebes 303,328 



h. nefas 303 



Pupoides marginata 303 



Pygochelidon cyanoleuca 270 



Pyrilia haematotus coccinicollaris. 251 

 Pyrodon 335 



Querquedula discors 247 



Querula purpurata 270 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



Radiodiscus millecostatus 301, 326 



Raiamas 344 



bola 344 



Ramphastos ambiguus 258 



piscivorus brevicarinatus 258 



swainsonii 258 



Ramphocaenus rufiventris rufi- 



ventris 261 



Ramphocelus dimidiatus isthmi- 



cus 278 



icteronotus 278 



luciani 278 



Rhadamista 336 



Rhamphobatis 339 



Rheocles 343 



Rhina 339 



Rhinoptyux clamator 251 



Rhodinocichla rosea eximia 279 



Rhomboplitoides 33 



megalops 33 



Rhyachocylus cinereiceps 263 



flavo-olivaceus 263 



marginatus .' 263 



Rhynchobatis 344 



Riparia riparia 270 



Ripipteryx circumcincta 208 



Ronchif ex 338 



Rupornis magnirostris ruficauda... 249 



Salmo erythrinus 342 



Saltator albicoUis isthmicus 276 



atriceps lacertosus 276 



magnoides intermedius 276 



Sarda 339 



Sargus 339 



Saucerottia edwardi 255 



niveoventer 255 



Scapaneus malherbii 259 



Scaphura sphex 192 



Scapteriscus didactylus 207 



Scatophagus 336 



Sciaena aquila 43 



cirrhosa 43 



dussumieri 43 



umbra 43 



Scleroderma 337 



Sclerurus guatemalensis 262 



Scobina 114 



Scoliodon walbeehmii 2 



Scomberoides tala 14 



Scrofaria 337 



Scropha 337 



Scymnorhinus 339 



Scymnus 339 



Secutor 336 



Seinrus aurocapillus 274 



motacilla 274 



noveboracensis noveboracen- 



sis 274 



Selar 14 



boops 15 



crumenophthalums 15 



Selenidera spectabilis 258- 



Seminola 114 



Seminolus 114 



Setophaga ruticilla 274 



Siganus corallinus 69 



fuscescens... 69 



Sirystes albogriseiis 269 



Sitalces jugatus /.... 185- 



ovatipennis 185 



Sraerdis 335 



Sonorella binneyi franciscana 318 



caerulifluminis 315 



compar 296. 



delicata 314 



galiurensis 298 



grahamensis 311 



hesterna 294 



marmorarius 294 



m. innula 297 



m. limifontis 297 



odorata 285 



o. marmoris 288 



rinconensis 301 



rooseveltiana 314 



sabinoensis buehmanensis 292 



s. occidentalis 291 



tortillita 299 



wolcottiana 139 



Spanius 338 



Sparus 340 



Spirinchus 342 



Spiza americana 276 



Spizaetus ornatus 250 



tyranmis 250 



Spiziastur melanoleucus 250 



Sporophila aurita 275 



grisea schistacea 275 



gutturalis 275 



minuta minuta 275 



Squatina 339 



Stelgfdopteryx ruficollis uropvgia- 



lis r, 271 



serripennis 270 



Stenacris cylindrodes 170 



Stenopsis cayennensis albicauda.... 253 



Sterna hirundo 244 



Stilpnochlora marginella 195 



Strephon 336 



Streptoeeryle alcyon alcyon 252 



torquata torquata 251 



Striatura milium meridionalis..302, 327 



Strotes 336 



Sublegatus glaber 265 



Succinea avara 329 



Sula leucogastra 248 



Syletor 343 



Symphurus 340 



Synallaxis pudica pudica 262 



Synergus 338, 343 



Tachyphonus delatrii 279 



luctuosus 279 




1918.] 



NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375- 



Tachyphonus rufiis 279 



Tanagra crassirostris 277 



fulvicrissa 277 



luteicapilla 277 



minuta humilis 277 



Tangara gyroloides 278 



inornata 278 



larvata fanny 277 



lavinia 278 



Tapera naevia excellens 258 



Taraba transandeana transande- 



ana 260 



Tarsistes 344 



philippii 344 



Taxiarchus paraensis 168 



Teleutias aduncus 197 



Terenotriccus erythrurus fulvigul- 



aris 266 



Tetratsenia phila 172 



surinama 171 



Tettigidea hancocki 168 



Tettix caudata 168 



Thalassoklepht es 337 



Thalurania colombica colombica... 256 

 Thamnophilus radiatus nigricris- 



tatus 260 



Therapon brachycentrus 36 



brevispinis 36 



knerii 36 



Thrasaetus harpyia 250 



Thraupis cana cana 278 



palmamn melanoptera 278 



Threnetes ruckeri 253 



Thryophilus castaneus castaneus.. 271 



galbraithii galbraithii 271 



modestus elutus 271 



rufalbus castanonotus 271 



Thymallus 339 



Thyrsocera affinis 146 



annulicornis l^S 



Thysaiiophora hornii 301, 315 



ingersolli 301,325 



Thysdnis marginatiLS 199 



Tiaris olivacea pusilla 275 



Tigrisoma cabanisi 247 



lineatum 247 



Tinamus castaneiceps 241 



Tityra semifasciata costaricensis.. 269 

 Todiro.strum cinereum finitimum.. 264 



nigricep.s 264 



schistaceiceps 264 



Totanu.s flavipes 245 



melanoleucus 245 



Toxotes 339 



Trachidermus 339 



Trachurop.s 14 



Trichodon 340 



Trichopodus 340 



Trichopus 340 



Troglodytes musculu.s inquietus... 271 



Trogon strigilatus chionurus 257 



Trogonurus curucui tenellus 257 



Trompe... 339 



Tropidacris collaris 170 



Tropinotus obsoletus 170 



Tryngites subruficollis 24& 



Tyranniscus vilissimus parvis 265 



Tyrannulus elatus reguloides 269 



dominicensis dominicensis 268 



melancholicus satrapa 268 



Tyrannus tyrannus 268 



Tyto perlata guatemalae 250' 



Ulcigobius 69 



Umbrina 340 



Unagius 343 



Upeneoides belaque 40 



philippiniis 37 



vittatu.« 39,40 



Urocles 338,343 



Urospatha martii semirufa 252 



Urubitinga anthracina 250' 



urubitinga 249' 



Vallonia cyclophorella 302, 327 



perspectvia 303,327 



Vermivora chrysoptera 273 



peregrina 273 



Verater ._ _ 343- 



Vertigo coloradensis arizonensis 329' 



c. inserta 305 



concinnula 329 



modesta insculpta 304, 329' 



ovata 329' 



Viadana myrtifolia 195 



Vigil 344 



Vilerna aeneo-oculata 183 



Vireolanius pulchellus viridiceps . 273 

 Vireasylva flavoviridis flavoviridis 273 



olivacea 273 



Vitrina alaskana 302, 327 



Volatinia jacarini splendens 275 



Wilsonia canadensis 274 



citrina 274 



Xenodon 335 



Xenops genibarbis mexicanus 262' 



Xestoblatta nyctiboroides 156 



Xiphorhynchus lacrimosus lacri- 



mosus 263 



nanus nanus 263 



punctigulus punctigulus 263 



Zamelodia ludoviciana 275' 



Zarhvnchus wagleri wagleri 280 



Zenodon 335,336 



Zonitoides arborea 302, 327 



niinuscula alachuana 302, 327 



singleyana 302,327 




576 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[Dec, 



GENERAL INDEX. 



1918 



Additions to the Museum, 361. 



Attachees, 359. 



Barrie, George, announcement of death 



of, 73. 

 Biological and Microscopical Section, 



report of, 356. 

 Bodine, Joseph Hall. Experimental re- 



ults in Ischnura and Enallagma, 103. 

 Botanical Section, report of, 357. 

 Boyer, Charles S. Report of the Biolog- 

 ical and Microscopical Section, 356. 

 Cadwalader, John. Minute on death of 



Samuel Gibson Dixon, 72. Legal 



attainments of Dr. Dixon, 116. 

 Calvert, Philip P. Eruptions of the 



Costa Rican volcano Irazii in 1917-18, 



73. 

 Conderman, Theodore H., announce- 

 ment of death of, 281. 

 Conklin, Edwin G. In memoriam. 



Samuel G. Dixon, M.D., LLD., 



ScD., 115. 

 Corresponding Secretary, report of, 347. 

 Council for 1919, 358. 

 Cresson, Caleb, announcement of death 



of, 1. 

 Cresson, E. T., Jr. _ Report of the 



Entomological Section, 356. 

 CuUen, Anna M. Rectal tracheation 



of Argia putrida larva, 75. 

 Curators, report of, 350. 

 Day, Frank Miles, announcement of 



death of, 281. 

 Dixon, Samuel Gibson, announcement 



of death of, 72. Memorial meeting, 



115. 

 Dreer, William F., announcement of 



death of, 281. 

 Du Bois, WiUiam F., announcement 



of death of, 281. 

 Eckfeldt, John W. Report of the 



Botanical Section, 357. 

 Elections in 1918, 360. 

 Entomological Section, report of, 356. 

 Fowler, Henry W. New and Uttle- 



known fishes from the PhiUppine 



Islands, 1, 2. A new Characin 



from Paraguay, 141, 281. 



Jamieson, Janet P. The tracheal sup- 

 ply of the rectum of the larva of 

 Argia talamanca from Juan Vinas, 

 Costa Rica, 81. 

 Jordan, David Starr. Note on Gistel's 

 genera of fishes, 335. New genera 

 of fishes, 341. 

 Keeley, F. J. Report of the Curator 

 of the William S. Vaux Collections, 

 3.56. 

 Librarian, report of, 348. 

 Lyman, Benjamin Smith. Report of 

 the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section, 357. 

 Mcllvaine, A. Robinson, announce- 

 ment of death of, 334. 

 Mineralogical and Geological Section, 



report of, 357. 

 Moore, Clarence B. The northeastern 



Florida coast revisited, 281. 

 Moore, J. Percy. Report of the Corre- 

 sponding Secretary, 347. 

 Nolan, Edward J. Report of the 

 Recording Secretary', 345. Report 

 of the Librarian, 348. 

 Norris, Herbert, announcement of 



death of, 334. 

 Norris, Isaac, announcement of death 



of, 281. 

 Officers, Councillors, and Committee 



on Accounts, 358. 

 Ornithological Section, report of, 358. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A. On the generic 

 position of Sonorella wolcottiana 

 Bartsch, 139, 281. 

 Pilsbry, Henry A., and Jas. H. Ferriss. 

 MoUusca of the southwestern States 

 — IX. The Santa Catalina, Rin- 

 con, TortilUta and Galiuro Moun- 

 tains. X. The mountains of the 

 Gila headwaters (Plates III-VI), 

 282. 

 Recording Secretarj^ report of, 345. 

 Rehn, James A. G. On a collection of 

 Orthoptera from the State of Pard, 

 Brazil (Plates I, II), 144. 

 Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 356. 




1918.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



377 



Report of the Botanical Section, 357. 



Report of the CorresDonding Secre- 

 tary, 347. 



Report of the Curator of the William 

 S. Vaux Collections, 356. 



Report of the Curators, 350. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 356. 



Report of the Librarian, 348. 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 357. 



Report of the Ornithological Section, 

 358. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 345. 



Royer, B. Franklin. Dr. Dixon's 

 \vork in sanitary science, 127. 



Smith, Benjamin H., announcement of 

 death of, 334. 



Standing Committees 1919, 359. 



Stone, Witmer. Dr. Dixon's life and 

 services to the Academy, 120. 

 Birds of the Panama Canal Zone, 

 with special reference to a collection 

 made by Mr. Lindsey L. Jewel, 239, 

 281. Report of the Curators, 350. 

 Report of the Ornithological Sec- 

 tion, 358. 



Vanatta, E. G. Two new shells from 

 Hayti, 237, 289. 



Wade, Bruce. New generic names for 

 Upper Cretaceous Gastropoda, 114. 



26 




sT 






MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



I II Hill mini I 



H IflSJ J 




'■:^fitKiilK'/ 



,''i.ittrt1"i}if>LM<\ 




