



PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



or ^- ^e>- 



O 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1871. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D.^ Wm. S. Vaux, 



KoTJEiiT Bkidoes, jVI.I)., Geo. W. Tryon, Jr.., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



Corner of Broad and Sansom Streets. 



1871. 




Hall of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 



Philadelphia, April 9, 1872. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1871 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



SAMUEL B. HOWELL, M.D., 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA 

 COLLINS, PRINTER. 




/ 





LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS, 



With reference to the several Articles contributed by each. 

 For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



Cope, E. D. Ninth Contributiou to the Herpetology of Tropical 



America 200 



On the Fishes of the Ambyiacu River 250 



Coues, E. Notes on the Natural History of Fort Macon, N. C, and 



vicinity (No. 1) 12 



Same (No. 2) 120 



Lawrence, Geo. N. Descriptions of New Species of Birds of the Fami- 

 lies Troglodytidfe and Tyrannidse 28:5 



Lea, I. Description of three New Species of Exotic Unionidse 188 



Descriptions of twenty New Species of Uniones of the United States 189 



Meehan, T. Morphology of Carpellary Scales in Larix 106 



Meek, F. B. Descriptions of New Species of Invertebrate Fossils from 



the Carboniferous and Devonian Rocks of Ohio 67 



Description of New Species of Fossils from Ohio and other Western 



States and Territories 159 



Notice of a New Brachiopod from the Lead-bearing Rocks at Mine 



La Motte, Missouri 185 



Descriptions of new "Western Palseozoic Fossils, mainly from the 



Cincinnati Group of the Lower Silurian Series of Ohio 308 



Newton, A. On certain Species of Falconidfe, Tetraonidse, and Anatidaj 94 

 Ogden, J. A. Synopsis of the Genus Chettusia (Lobivanellus), with a 



description of a new species 194 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on Feldspars and some other Minerals of 



Philadelphia and vicinity 299 



Streets, T. Hale. Descriptions of five New Species of Crustacea from 



Mexico 225 



Catalogue of Crustacea from the Isthmus of Panama, collected by 

 J. A. McNeil 238 



Thomas, Prof. C. Contribution to Orthopterology 194 



/ ^ 7- ^ 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADE3IY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF 



PHILADELPHIA. 



NEW SERIES. 



PART I. 18tl. 



January 3, 1871. 



Mr. Wm. S. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : — 



'' Xotes on the JSTatural History of Fort Macon, X. C, and 

 vicinity. No. 1." B3' Elliott Coues. 



Professor 0. C. Marsh, of Yale College, exhibited a tooth of a 

 new species of Lophiodon^ from the Miocene of New Jersey, whicli 

 was the first indication yet discovered of remains of the Tapiridoe 

 on the Atlantic coast, or of the genus Lophiodon in this countrj^, 

 east of the Rocky Mountain region. The tooth, which was in a 

 perfect state of preservation, was the first true molar of the left 

 upper jaw. It measured across the crown seven lines in antero- 

 i:)osterior diameter, and eight and one-quarter lines in transverse 

 diameter. This would indicate an animal intermediate in size 

 between L. occidenfalis and L. modesfus of Dr. Leidy. From the 

 latter species it may .readily be distinguished by the enamel of 

 the crown, which is smooth and not wrinkled. As this species is 

 evidently distinct from any described. Professor Marsh proposed 

 for it the name Lophiodon validiis. The specimen was found in 

 the miocene marl of Cumberland County, New Jersey, and appa- 



[May 2, 1871.] part i— 2 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



rentl}'' at about the same horizon as the Elotlierium Leidyanum, 

 and Rhinoceros matutinus Marsh, from Monmouth Count}^, in the 

 same State. 



January 10. 

 Mr. Wm. S. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 



January It. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



January 24. 

 Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan presented a fruit of a pear, which pre- 

 sented the external appearance of an apple, gathered from a 

 Tj'son pear tree growing in the garden of Dr. Lawrence, of Paris, 

 Canada. Dr. Lawrence had a Rhode Island greening apple near 

 the pear tree, and some of the latter interlaced with it. The pear 

 tree was full of blossoms last spring, but only those interlacing 

 bore fruit. They had all the appearance of apples, so much so, 

 that many who had seen them had supposed there must have 

 been some mistake as to Dr. Lawrence gathering them. Dr. L. 

 liad, however, when he first saw them, obtained Mrs. Lawrence's 

 aid in separating the branches, so that there should be no mistake. 

 The specimens had been sent to Mr. Meehan, who regarded them 

 as apples ; but on cutting them open, found the seeds to be of the 

 pear. The granular matter characteristic of the pulp of the pear 

 also existed in the carpels, but none in the pulp, which was wholly 

 fibrous, as in the apple; the insertion of the stalk, also, was that 

 of the pear. Instead of the cavity being funnel-form, as in the 

 apple, it was carapanulate, as if the stem had been pushed in, 

 carr^'ing the epidermis and pulp with it. He had no doubt that 

 the fruit had the pedicle, carpellar}^ walls, and seeds of the pear, 

 with the granular pear-pulp wanting ; but with the fibrous pulp 

 and eiDiderm of the apple. 



As to the law of its production, he disliked speculation, but it 

 would seem that there were two ways in which it might be pro- 

 duced — either by a natural evolution of form, independent of 

 sexual influence, which plants at times exhibited, or by cross- 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 11 



fertilization with the apple. In the latter case, if found true, it 

 would liaA'e an important bearing on the question often mooted, 

 whether cross-fertilization effected change immediatel}' in the fruit 

 impregnated, or that change only appeared after the germination 

 of the impregnated seeds. In the case of A'arieties of Indian-corn, 

 we know the change is immediate ; and it was generally belicA'ed 

 some cucurhitaceous plants furnished similar facts ; but he thought 

 it had not been known in other plants, especially in the case of 

 species as distinct as were the apple and the pear. 



January 31. 

 Mr. Jos. Jeanes in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



The report of the Biological and Microscopical Section was 

 presented. 



Twenty members not being present when the election of com- 

 mittees was in order, the committees elected in 1870 were con- 

 tinued for 1811. 



The election of members was postponed until the next business 

 meeting. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — 



1871.] 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



NOTES ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF FORT MACON, N. C, AND 



VICINITY. (No. 1.) 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



During two 3'^ears' residence in this locality, I paid some atten- 

 tion to the zoology and botany of the vicinity, and the information 

 obtained may be of some value to others besides myself The 

 present paper, in which mammals, birds, and reptiles are noticed, 

 ma}^ be followed by one or more treating of the fishes, insects, 

 marine invertebrates, and plants. 



I. MAMMALS. 



Lynx rufus, Raf. 

 Occasional. 



Vulpes virginianus, Rich. 

 Putorius vison, Gapper. 

 Lutra canadensis, Sabine. 



These three, but especially the mink, are common, and, with the 

 first-named and the following species, represent the fur-bearing 

 animals of the immediate vicinity which are of commercial conse- 

 quence. 



Procyon lotor, Storr. 



Syn. p. lotor var. Mexicana, St. Hilaire, Voy. Venus, I, 1855, p. 25, pi. 

 6.— P. Ilernandezii, Wagler, Isis, xxiv, 1831, p. 514. — P. Hernandezii 

 var. Mexicana, Baird, Mamm. N. A. 1857, p. 212. — P. nivea, Gray, 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., I, 1837, p. 580 (Albino).— P. psora, Gray, Ann. Mag. 

 N. H. X, 1842, p. 261 (mutilated). — '■'■Procyon gularis, Smith, Int. 

 Mamm. Jard. Nat. Lib., xiii, 1842, 222" (fide Baird). 



A common animal, in the wooded portions of the vicinity. 



Residing for several years in difierent Southern States, where 

 the Raccoon is either common or very abundant, I became familiar 

 with its variations in size, color, etc., and feel sure that these are 

 as great as those differences held to distinguish a western from 

 the eastern form. Although I do not assign the above synonymy 

 from direct comparison of specimens from the different localities 

 (as I saw none in New Mexico, Arizona, or California), I am con- 

 fident it is correct, provided F. Hernandezii^ etc., do not differ 

 from lotor in any other points than those given in descriptions of 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 13 



tlie authors above quoted. As Mr. Allen^ holds, and probaljly 

 has shown, all the features belieA'ed to distinguish the western 

 raccoons may be discovered in examination of sufficiently exten- 

 sive series of eastern ones. Dr. Gray's two species are not dilfer- 

 ent, according to that author's subsequent admission. 



Cariacus virginianus, Gray. 



Common, almost to be called abundant in wooded portions of 

 the main land near the coast, and said, upon good authority, to 

 occur in the wooded part of the Banks. During the autumn and 

 winter, venison is not much more expensive than beef, a fact 

 attesting the above statements. 



1 Balaena cisarctica, Cope. 



An individual, which I rather suppose than know to be of this 

 species, was taken in Maj^, 18G9, off Shackleford. It measured 

 about forty-five feet in total length. The fishermen called it a 

 " right whale." Besides this kind, they spoke of two others, that 

 the,y occasionally captured, under the names of "Scrag" and 

 "Humpback" {Agaphilus sp ? and Megaptera sp ?). They usually 

 take two or three each spring. Remains of whales, as the jaw- 

 bones, shoulder-blades, humeri, and especially vertebrae, are strewn 

 abundantly along the beach. 



Delphiuus Sp. 



At least one species of porpoise is very abundant in and about 

 the harbor, and I think that a second, smaller and darker than 

 the other, is of frequent occurrence. They are to be seen at all 

 times, but are most abundant in spring and fall, during the 

 migration of the fish upon which they prey ; and in April and 

 May, during the pairing season, they become especially conspi- 

 cuous in their amatory gambols. The sexual act is frequently 

 witnessed, and may be recognized at a distance by the reversed 

 position of one of the pair, and the smoothing of the surface of 

 the water by the wasted emissions. The great voracity of the 

 porpoises is evident in their pursuit of schools of fish, some of 

 which are often driven out of the water, only to fall back into 

 the open jaws of the pursuers. The animals are sometimes taken 

 for their oil, in nets made especially for the purpose, but are not 



1 Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., No. 8, pp. 182-3. 

 1871.] 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



often molested, and usually show entire fearlessness of the near- 

 ness of man. 



Remains of some cetacean (not a whale), about seventeen feet 

 long, were cast upon the beach during a storm in October last, 

 but identification was impossible, owing to the advanced stage of 

 decay. 



Lasiurus cinereus, Allen. 



Occasional specimens, in summer. 



L, noveboracensis, Gray. 



Very abundant in summer, and appearing to live mostly in and 

 about the fort itself, as far as the eastern extremity of the island 

 is concerned ; other suitable hiding-places not being in plenty. 



Scalops aquaticus, Fischer. 



Occasional traces of this animal's presence in the loose soil 

 betweeu the sand-hills and the marsh. 



Sciurus carolinensis, Gmelin. 



Very abundant in all the wooded vicinity. 



Mus decumanus, Pallas. 

 M. inusculus, Linn. 



Ever^'where about the fort and other settlements. 



Fiber zibethicus, Cuvier. 

 Common. 



Lepus sylvaticus, Bach. 



One specimen from the neighboring island of Shackleford — the 

 only one I ever saw in the vicinity. I scarcely think that it 

 occurs on Borden, where the next species abounds. 



L. palustris, Bach. 



The most abundant and characteristic mammal of the island. 



I gave some account of this species, in the Proceedings of the 

 Boston Natural History Society for 1869 (p. 89), and have little 

 to add to what there appears, or may be gathered from Audubon's 

 and Bachman's article. 



The animal sometimes reproduces in April, more commonl}'^ in 

 May, and thence during part of the summer ; I do not know 

 whether more than one litter is reared, but think such is the case. 

 The nest is a snug, pretty affair, in a tussock of rank grass or 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



■sveods, or little shrubby patch, in a dry situation. It is sunk a 

 little in the ground, then arched over, with an opening on one side; 

 built of dried grasses, mixed with a few leaves, and warmly lined 

 with the animal's own fur. All those I have seen were so far 

 from water as to be out of reach of anj"^ possible rise of the tide. 



This appears to be the most distinct of the several species 

 closely related to the foregoing ; and is in fact distinguishable on 

 sight, as some of the others are not. 



Didelphys virginiana, Shaw. 



Syn. I), calif or )uca, Bennett, P. Z. S., i, 1833, p. 40. — D. brcviccps, Id., 

 ibid. — D. 2rrui>iosa, Wagner, Suppl. Schreber, ill, 1843, p. 40. 



Abundant in the wooded portions of the vicinity. 



Having made this animal a special stud}', I am in position to 

 offer remarks which cannot be reasonably- questioned. Although 

 my investigations were rather anatomical than zoological, I did 

 not neglect the latter portion of the subject. The more speci- 

 mens I examined, the more I was struck with the variations that 

 depend upon sex and age, as well as those that different indi- 

 viduals corresponding in these conditions present. An examina- 

 tion of these points in the natural histor}^ of a single animal, may 

 give results of general application. And yet, in calling attention 

 to the variability of the opossum, I do not wish to be understood as 

 supposing that the animal is not as constant as many or most 

 others ; for I believe it to be no exception to a general standard 

 or average in this respect. I doubt that one could stud^^ any 

 mammal as closely as I have the opossum, without being simi- 

 larly impressed. The following paragraphs are mainly confined 

 to consideration of external characters. I can affirm that not 

 one of the characters assigned to the supposed species above 

 cited, is not to be found in specimens of D. virginiana from the 

 same localit}' ; that the differences indicate individual peculiarities ; 

 and that even npon striking an average of preponderance of certain 

 characters, common to each in various degree, no results will be 

 obtained warranting the separation of the opossums from the 

 southwest as even a geographical race or variety. The assertion 

 is made, it should be understood, upon consideration of descrip- 

 tions only, without direct comparison of specimens. 



Professor Baird remarks (Mex. B. Survey, vol. ii, pt. ii, p. 33), 

 that " although there are some differences in the skulls of the D. 



isn.] 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



virginiana [and of D. californica\ yet I am unable to establish on 

 them any specific characters. In fact, the variation in the thick- 

 ness and length of the muzzle in different specimens, in addition 

 to other points, are so great, as readily to convey the impression 

 of mail}' more species than really exist." This is certainly true, 

 and, I think, is speaking within bounds. The author's tables of 

 measurements of skulls of D. virginiana show a difference of 

 nearly an inch and a half in total length, in only four specimens ; 

 yet this scarcely represents extremes between the largest old 

 males and the smallest young (though full-grown) females. I 

 have skulls before me upon which a person so minded might 

 base very specious geneiHc characters. The lateral measurements 

 of the skull are variablj^ proportionate to the longitudinal ones. 

 The muzzle is sometimes tumid, at others regularly conic. Some- 

 times the interparietal crest forms a high arch, at others is only 

 a direct backward and upward prolongation of the face. This 

 crest may be only a fourth of an inch, or more than half an inch 

 above the expanded surface of the par'ietals, and when so large 

 it ma}^ be partially detached, appearing like an osseous lamina 

 developed in the fascia separating the masseteric muscles. Gene- 

 rall}", it is in direct proportion to the size and strength of the 

 individual, and is usually smallest in the female. The zj^gomatic 

 arch is very variable in amount of outward curvature. The 

 ramus of the lower jaw may be neai-ly upright, or slope backward 

 so far as to overreach the cond3de. It appears to vary with age. 

 The long lower border of the jaw-bone may form a slight regular 

 curve, or a strong irregular one. In two specimens before me, 

 the difference in total length of this bone alone is a full inch, and 

 the smaller of the two is that of the older animal, as shown by 

 the stronger ridges and deeper depressions for muscular attach- 

 ments, and the much-worn teeth. The difference in length between 

 two canine teeth (both unworn) is a fourth of an inch ; the pos- 

 sessors of these were both adult animals. In general, the tusks 

 of the male are longer and stronger than those of the female. It 

 is unnecessary to cite further details. Elimination of all these 

 and other accidental variations shows how very different a skull 

 should be, to furnish specific characters. 



The length of the tail, compared with the length of the body, 

 appears to have been relied upon in some instances ; but, for 

 several reasons, it is difficult to predicate anything upon this 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. It 



character. In the first place, it is impossible to always measure 

 the tail from the same point. There is no visible point of separa- 

 tion of tail from bod}^; tlie latter narrows regularly and gradually 

 into the former, so that we cannot say where one ends and the 

 other begins. Measurement from the end of the fur is usually 

 supposed to be meant ; and about where the true fur ends the 

 scal}^ plates begin. But it will be quite safe to allow for a varia- 

 tion of at least two inches in this regard. I have certainly seen 

 so much difference as this, as well as I could judge. This refers 

 to external measurements of the animal in the flesh ; the dried, 

 especiall}' if skinned, tail can afford no data whatever. Finall}-, 

 appeal to the vertebrte themselves is not infallible, for these may 

 var}' . The first coccygeal vertebra (as I hold it to be) resembles 

 the others in ph3'sical characters, but is really a part of the sacrum, 

 being anchylosed therewith. At the extremity of the tail, one 

 vertebra or more may be lost without evident trace. The termi- 

 nal dozen or more bones have no neural canal, nor any notice- 

 able parts beyond the impervious centra by which they articulate; 

 they resemble the internodes of a digit. The tail is singularly 

 liable to ulceration upon injur}'^, when one or more bones may 

 exfoliate from the end, and the subsequent cicatrix be scarcely' 

 recognizable.^ I met with one such case. It would not be safe 

 to base a specific difference upon less than three or four inches 

 in length of tail ; and this should be taking age for age of the 

 animal, of course, and be only declared of specimens measured 

 in the flesh. In color, the opossum's tail is usually in largest 

 part whitish or flesh-colored, blotched with a dark livid or 

 blackish hue toward the base. The degree of blotching and the 

 shapes of the dark spaces vary with almost every individual. 

 Sometimes most of the tail is dark colored ; sometimes there is 

 almost no pigment in the scales. Absolutelj^ nothing can be pre- 

 dicated of this feature. 



The ears of this creature are very thin and membranous, and 



' It is also highly probable that the coccygeal vertebrae uormally vary 

 one or two in number, that is to say, we may find 21, 22, 23 bones, without 

 any having been lost by accident or disease. Tliis, however, is an opinion 

 of mine, not an observation. Some small long-tailed animals vary more 

 than this ; e. g., Mr. Allen says (Bull. :Mus. Comp. Zool. No. 8, p. 228) tliat 

 Eespemmys leucopus may have from 24-5 to above 30 caudal vertebra?. 

 Other Muridce appear to vary quite as much. 

 1871.] 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



mostly nuked, reminding one of the texture of a bat's wing. 

 In color, they are like the tail ; usually dark, blotched or rimmed 

 with flesh-color ; but they may be wholly blackish or mostly 

 whitish ; it is impossible to base any character upon their colora- 

 tion. The general shape of the conch may be called pyriform 

 (base uppermost) or subcircular ; but it is not easy to see what 

 the shape really is, unless the ear is pressed out flat. From their 

 texture, they shrink and shrivel in drying. I have never seen a 

 Virginian opossum with so pointed an ear as "D. californicus" is 

 represented to possess in pi. iii. of the Mexican Boundary Sur- 

 vey ; but if, as I presume, the drawing was made from a dried 

 specimen, it is not trustworthy in this point, for indeed the true 

 shape of the ear could have been only guessed at. The ears, like 

 the tail, are peculiarly subject to disease ; and may ulcerate away 

 entirely, as I have observed in animals kept in confinement; and 

 this, too, without appreciable general ill-health. 



The general body colors are amongst the most variable features. 

 The variation is largely a matter of individual diflerence ; but 

 there are certain things that influence it in a general way ; espe- 

 cially age. The opossum grows gray Avitli age, as a rule ; half- 

 grown ones seen at a little distance give the impression of a 

 lilackish animal; old ones, of a whitish animal. The paws are 

 particularly A^ariable. Generally, they are among the darkest 

 parts, and are often quite blackish ; frequentl}-, they are as pale 

 as any other parts. Not to go into tedious particulars in this 

 connection, I may say, in short, that I have seen no points of 

 coloration adduced for D. californica that might not be easily 

 matched out of a dozen individuals of the Eastern species, with 

 a single exception. To the best of my recollection, I have not 

 seen a specimen of Virginiayia with paws completely black to the 

 nails. 



Under the circumstances, it seems most probable that a second 

 species of Didelphys remains to be determined, if occurring 

 within our limits. 



II. BIRDS. 



The list is restricted to those species that came under personal 

 observation on the unwooded portion of the island itself, and on 

 the waters of the immediate vicinitj^ ; for an exhibit of the strictly 

 littoral and maritime bird fauna, as distinguished from that of 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



the locality at large, seemed to promise the more of real interest. 

 At the same time it should be remembered, that any of the Pas- 

 seres, &c., of the wooded main land adjoining, not here noted 

 ma}^ occasionall}^ stray into the shrubbery of the sand-bars. Tlie 

 catalogue of the water birds is believed to be pretty full. Aside 

 from these, and excepting a few mai-itime land birds like the Am- 

 modrami for example, the bird-fauna of the locality appears to 

 differ from that of the State at large, mainly in the absence durino- 

 the breeding season of species that, like the robin and nieadow- 

 lark, pass the summer as well as other seasons in higher parts, 

 and perhaps, also, in a rather earlier arrival in spring, and later 

 departure in the fall, on an average, of the migrants. 



Turdus migratorius. 



Spring and fall, especially March and November ; some winter ; 

 none observed in summer. 



Turdus pallasii. 



Spring and fall, occasional, in the shrubbery; spec, in Xov. 

 As elsewhere* noted, this species migrates earlier in the spring 

 and later in the fall than its nearest allies ; and I have no doubt 

 that it winters in this vicinity. 



Turdus aliciae. 



Like the last, but later in coming ; specs, in April and Ma}'. 



Mimus polyglottus. 



Resident ; common ; but not so abundant as it is inland, and 

 especially somewhat further south. 



Mimus carolinensis. 



Resident ; common ; but most numerous during the migration. 



Anthus ludovicianus. 



Abundant, in flocks, from early in Xovember till Apri/. 



Thryothorus ludovicianus. 



Common ; resident ; mates in March ; nests and lays in April ; 

 young obtained May 9. 



Telmatodytes palustris. 



Abundant, particularly duTing the migration. It continues in 

 plenty through part of Xovember at least, and I think that some 



' Coues and Prentiss, Smithsonian Report for 1861, p. 40-1 

 18T1.] 




20 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADExMY OP 



may winter here. jN'o nests were observed, and I doubt that any 

 breed in this locality, although it is a common summer bird in 

 Virginia swamps, and I found it breeding in the same latitude 

 (about 35° N.) in the West. 



Cistothorus stellaris. 



One specimen, October 11, 1869, the only time that I ever saw 

 the bird alive. 



Geothlypis trichas. 



The most abundant and characteristic of its family, in summer ; 

 and I presume, but do not feel sure, that some pass the winter 

 here. They arrive in numbers during the latter part of March 

 and early in April, when many of them have not acquired their 

 full dress. They begin to sing almost immediately, and many 

 nest in April. Young birds may be seen early in May, along 

 with the first broods of the Carolina wren, and from that time 

 until August. The species remains plentiful through part of 

 November. 



Parula americana. 



Only occasional during the migration (one spec, in September). 



Dendroeca coronata. 



Very abundant in winter ; complementing the j^ellow-throats at 

 that season. They arrive late in October ; become more nume- 

 rous the following month, and remain until the last of March or 

 early part of April, frequenting the shrubbery in flocks with the 

 savanna sparrows. None were observed to have gained their 

 full plumage before leaving. 



Dendroeca discolor. 



Arriving late in April, these birds become very numerous in 

 May, when nearly every patch of juniper and clump of bushes 

 has one or more in full song, and continually foraging for winged 

 insects, which they catch in the air with great adroitness. The 

 greater number pass north to breed, but many remain during the 

 summer, especially in thinly wooded sandy tracts of the neigh- 

 borhood. 



Dendroeca striata. 



Occasional, in the shrubbery, during the migration. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Dendroeca palmarum. 



Kather frequent, particularly late in the fall, in low shrubbery, 

 with the sparrows. 



Progne purpurea. 



Common, March to October ; as many as can find accommoda- 

 tion breed about the fort. 



Hirundo horreorum. 



During the migration only; then abundant. 



Hirundo bicolor. 



Abundant during the migration. Numbers made their appear- 

 ance January 11, 1870, on a warm day, though there had been 

 ice a half inch thick two days before. They almost immediately 

 disappeared during some blustering weather, but reappeared in 

 greater numbers than before on the 20th, and were occasionally 

 seen from that time until the regular migration took place, in 

 April. 



Cotyle riparia. 



During the migration. 



Vireo novaeboracensis. 



Common summer resident of the shrubber}', April — October. 



Vireo olivaceus. 



Occasionally seen, during the migration. 



Pyranga sestiva. 



Frequent, in summer. 



Chrysomitris tristis. 



Common, in flocks, from November to April. Here it spends 

 much of its time on the ground, feeding apparently in greatest 

 part upon the seeds of Cenchrus trihuloides. 



Passerculus savanna. 



The characteristic sparrow ; very abundant everywhere out- 

 side the marsh itself, from October to Ma}* ; none remain through 

 the summer. Its numbers do not perceptibly decrease until the 

 middle of April, when the greater part move northward ; but 

 loiterers are seen through most of Maj'. Their earliest connected 

 notes are heard late in March ; and they are in full song and 



1871.] 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



plumage before tlicy leave. Some straggle back in September ; 

 more arrive in October, and the full complement appears with 

 the first cold weather of November. 



Zonotrichia albicoUis. 



Only occasional, in winter and during the migrations ; although 

 very abundant on the neighboring mainland. 



Melospiza melodia. 



Common ; resident ; but most numerous from October to April, 

 as most of them pass northward for the summer. 



Melospiza palustris. 



Common ; resident, I think, as I saw them after May, although 

 I did not observe them through either of the two summers. 

 They seemed most plentiful in November, when many were sing- 

 ing. The ordinary chirp of this species is totally different from 

 that of the last. A timid bird, courting the seclusion of the 

 thick bushes that border the marsh, it forms a sort of connecting- 

 link between the two last species that frequent open grassy 

 places and sparse shrubbery, and the two next, that are confined 

 to the marsh itself. 



Ammodromus caudacutus. 



Living side by side with the next, and with the same general 

 habits and manners, the sharp-tailed finch nevertheless has some 

 obvious peculiarities, as compared with the seaside. As the two 

 species spring up together from the reeds, the sharp-tailed is re- 

 cognized at a glance by its inferior size, and its general yellow- 

 ish appearance, closely resembling, in these respects, the Gotur- 

 niculus 2^o,sse7-inus, the place of which it appears to fill in the 

 marshes. Seen at the same hasty moment, the seaside looks 

 more like the marsh sparrow ; but the general impression re- 

 ceived is of a gray, instead of a rufous bird ; and its nearest 

 approach, in color, is to the Foospiza Belli. The difi'erence in plu- 

 mage between spring specimens, in full dress, of the sharp-tailed, 

 and the 3'oung of the same, in the fall, is striking, and greater 

 than has usually been mentioned ; it consists chiefly in the pale- 

 ness or almost want of the orange-buff that marks the hisfhest 

 condition. There is also a remarkable difference between the two 

 species of Ammodromus, in the time of the vernal moult. The 

 seaside finches were all found in full feather, and with highly 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



developed sexual organs, from the beginning of April; while the 

 sharp-tailed remained in moult through the same month. This, 

 of itself, is a good indication of some notable difference in the 

 time, and probably the places, of breeding. I do not thinlc that 

 any of the sharp-tailed finches breed hereabouts ; and it was not 

 until Maj^, when they appeared to be about leaving, that I found 

 any with excited organs, or in perfect plumage. At that date 

 the seasides were mating and nesting, if not already incubating. 

 In the fall, when both species are again together, it is only during 

 a part of the season that they are found in equal numbers. This 

 is during the warm days of October, when they loiter in troops 

 about the bushes around the edges of the marsh, as well as 

 among the reeds. Previously, in September, there are few of tlie 

 sharp-tailed to be seen ; and on entering the marshes in Novem- 

 ber, the seasides will be found scarce or altogether wanting, 

 while the former are still abundant. These observations, which I 

 made very carefullj', are mutually explanatorj^, and point to the 

 fact that these two species, so closely allied, so often found to- 

 gether, and so commonly spoken of in identical terms, have 

 really a different range of habitat (one being more northerly 

 than the other), migrate independently of each other, moult at 

 separate seasons, and breed more or less apart. 



Ammodromus maritimus. 



More numerous, on an average, than the last, and more truly 

 characteristic of the localitj^, as it breeds here in great numbers. 

 In April it retires from the interior of the marsh, to place its 

 nest among the bordering bushes, a little above high-water mark. 

 It begins to sing when mating, and is afterwards, during the in- 

 cubating, particularly earnest and persevering about it. Each 

 pair usually claims some particular copse, and the male has his 

 favorite singing post, to which he continually resorts. The 

 simple song is something like that of the yellow-winged sparrow, 

 beo-innino- with a few slow notes, then a rapid trill, finall}^ slurred 

 till it sounds like the noise made by some of the grasshoppers. 

 The nest and eggs are now well known. The young in September 

 are somewhat differently streaked from the adults, and appear to 

 constitute Audubon's A. macgillivrayi. 



The comparison that has been draAvn between the actions of 

 the Ammodromi and of Sandpipers seems somewhat forced, and 



1871.] 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



a more natural one might be traced In the Nuthutches, Titmice, 

 and even Woodpeckers. They climb the reeds with remarkable 

 ease, sliding up and down, skipping from one to another, and 

 hanging in every attitude except head downwards ; they are 

 doubtless much aided by the somewhat stiffened tail. On the 

 ground, they are unmistakabl}' sparrow-like, and always pi'oceed 

 b}'^ hopping; the flight does not differ noticeably from that of 

 their several near allies. It is irregular and very quick, and they 

 never remain long on wing. They are rather difficult to procure 

 in large numbers, independently of the miry nature of the places 

 they inhabit ; as they are not often, comparatively, seen at rest, 

 and it is quite a knack, only acquired bj' practice, to shoot at 

 them on wing with any certainty of killing. A collector will 

 do well to take a score of them in a morning's walk, even when 

 they are most abundant. 



Comparing the Fringillidse of this seacoast locality with those 

 of inland places of the same latitude, the distinctive features are 

 seen in the Ammodromi, and in the great abundance of Passer- 

 culus, together with the absence or only casual occurrence of seve- 

 ral species elsewhere abundant. Thus, I never saw a Chipping 

 Sparrow, Yellow-winged Sparrow, Bay-winged Bunting, or Snow- 

 Bird, on the island. 



Pipilo erythroplithalinus. 



Common; summer resident, breeding; and just possibly a few 

 spend the winter here, though I do not think I saw any between 

 November and March. 



Cardinalis virginianus. 



Common ; resident ; breeds (in Maj^ and subsequently). 

 Icterus spurius. 



Moderately common, from the latter part of April, through a 

 portion of September ; breeds. 



Dolichonyx oryzivorus. 



During the migrations only ; in spring, not abundant, mostly 

 in early Ma}', when many are in full dress, and singing volubly ; 

 in fall, very common, beginning to arrive late in August, and 

 continuing througli October. 



Agelaeus phoeniceus. 



Resident ; abundant. They become more numerous during the 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



latter part of January, begin to sing in March, get restless in 

 earl}^ April, wlien they come into full feather, but continue in 

 flocks for a week or two longer. The greater number then pass 

 off northward, and those that remain begin to pair. They breed 

 sometimes by the single pair, sometimes in companies with the 

 jackdaws, and have their first eggs early in Ma}'; though other 

 batches may be found throughout June and part of July. I 

 estimated that a narrow strip of brushy ground about two miles 

 long contained about a hundred pairs. The young begin to flock 

 about the middle of July ; there may have been about a thousand 

 in the tract just mentioned, before they were reinforced, in Au- 

 gust, by new-comers from the north. 



Sturnella magna. 



Yevy abundant, in flocks, from October to April, when they 

 pass north, or at an}' rate to higher grounds inland. I saw none 

 breeding, and do not think I ever observed a pair during the 

 summer. 



Quiscalus major. 



The characteristic species of the family, and very abundant. I 

 judge it to be resident, though it is much less common during 

 December and January, and may move off altogether during the 

 extreme of the season. It does not seem to be authenticated as 

 occurring beyond the Middle States ; and, however far north it 

 ma}^ occasionally stray in summer, it is essentiall}' a bird of the 

 South Atlantic and Gulf States. It is strictly maritime, and its 

 food differs from that of most of its allies, much as that of the 

 fish-crow does, in comparison with that of C. americanus. It 

 feeds on molluscs, aquatic insects, fiddler-crabs, and small fry, 

 which it catches expertly by wading in the water and striking 

 with its bill, in a manner reminding one of a heron. It frequents 

 the muddy flats at low tide, and for similar animal food, and is 

 dispersed through the marsh in gleaning for seeds that form part 

 of its fare. The sexes mingle in flocks, often of large size, up to 

 some time in April, when they break up in pairs, several asso- 

 ciating together in the same copse, and placing their nests close 

 together in a sort of rookery, frequented also by the redwings 

 and the green herons. The nests are bulky and inartistic, com- 

 posed chiefly of interlaced twigs and intertwined grasses, gene- 

 rally with the addition of a few dried leaves as lining or wadding ; 

 1871.] PART I.— 3 




2G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I saw none with either mud or horsehair. The la3'ing season is 

 at its licight thetliird or fourth week in April ; I did not find more 

 than six, nor fewer than three, eggs in a nest. They measure on an 

 average 1^ by a little OA'er ^ inch ; and have the usual shape 

 and curious zigzag markings, on a pale bluish-green ground color. 

 On leaving the nest, the young are curious-looking objects — clear 

 brown above, pale gra}' or almost white below, with a naked space 

 about the eyes, and flutfy tufts of down on the head. They 

 appear early in June, and by the first of August both old and 

 young are flocking. The 3'oung rapidly change after leaving the 

 nest, the brown acquiring a greenish-black cast, the gray of the 

 under parts becoming brown. Both sexes undergo a change in 

 the early fall, after rearing of the young is over, and again in 

 the spring. The moult begins on the head, and progresses back- 

 ward, the quills and tail-feathers being renewed last. When in 

 perfect plumage, the male is a splendid-looking bird ; its large 

 fan-shaped tail, with the lateral feathers placed slantwise, giving 

 it a jaunty air, and serving to steady its flight. A fuller account 

 of this interesting species will be found in the " Ibis," 1870, p. 367. 



Corvus ossifragus. 



Verjr common, and resident, though less numerous in summer, 

 and not to my knowledge breeding in the immediate vicinity, pro- 

 bably through lack of suitable woods. They frequent the sea 

 beach, contending with the turkey-buzzards and herring-gulls for 

 the refuse from the fort, and scatter over the marsh, often in com- 

 pan3Mvith the last species, feeding upon various animal substances 

 gatliered from the shoals and mud-flats, such as shell-fish, fiddler- 

 crabs, and aquatic worms. 



Tyrannus pipiri. {T. caroUnoisis.) 



Common summer resident, April to September; breeds. This 

 is the only one of the family that appears to regularly visit the 

 island, though four or five species at least are common in the 

 woods of the adjoining land. 



Ceryle alcyon. 



Occasional, at any season. 



Chordeiles virginianus. 



Very common, from April to October; breeds, and is especially 

 numerous in August. 



o' 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 2Y 



Coccygus erythrophthalmus. 



Frequent, during the migration. 



Colaptes auratus. 



Rare or occasional (one specimen taken October 10, IS'IO). 



The Picus querulus, although not actually observed on the 

 island, may be here noticed, as one of the characteristic species 

 of the South Atlantic States, and an abundant bird of the pine 

 swamps of the neighboring mainland, where it is resident. It is 

 easily distinguished from our other Pici proper, at any reason- 

 able distance ; first by its different note, and next bj- the greater 

 blending of its colors, producing a gra3'ish appearance at a dis- 

 tance where the other species still look definitely black and white. 

 The sexes are exactly alike, except that the ? lacks the red over 

 the auriculars, and of the same size ; average measurements 

 give 8^^x15x4^; tail 3 J. 



Falco sparverius. 



Frequent ; apparentl}^ resident. 



Accipiter cooperi. 



Frequent ; apparently resident. 



Accipiter fuscus. 



Specimen in September. 



Circus hudsonius. 



Very common ; resident. 



Fandion haliaetus. 



Common, especialljMU spring and fall. 



Haliaetus leucocephalus. 



Frequently observed at different seasons. 



Strix pratincola. 



Occasional; specimen taken in' the marsh in daylight. 



Brachyotus palustris. 



Frequent, about the marsh. 



Cathartes aura. 



Abundant ; resident ; more numerous in summer than in winter ; 

 believed to breed in the neighboring pine swamps. 



1871.] 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Cathartes atratus. 



This species was observed in summer too freqnentl}' to be con- 

 sidered as merely a straggler, though it is far less abundant here 

 than on the coast of the next State southward. Numbers were 

 seen March 22d, 1810 (their first appearance that year) ; and in 

 November of the same year I saw many near New Berne, N. C. 



Zensedura carolinensis. 



Resident ; abundant ; begins to flock in August, and so con- 

 tinues until April. 



Ortyx virginianus. 



Casually on the island, which is not entirely suited to its wants ; 

 plentiful in the vicinity. 



Cliaradrius virginicus. 



Common during the migration, particularly in October and 

 November. 



Aegialitis vociferus. 



Abundant, especially during the migration, but observed at all 

 seasons, and probably resident, though not known to breed. 



Aegialitis semipalmatus. 

 Aegialitis melodus. 



These two species come and go together, and are usuall}^ found 

 in company ; but the first named much outnumbers the last. 

 They become very plenty in April, and so continue through that 

 month and the next, after which none are to be seen until the 

 latter part of August. In September and October they are again 

 plentiful, and remain in scarcely diminished numbers until cold 

 weather, frequenting all the water-edges with several other small 

 waders. Before leaving in the spring, they come into perfect dress, 

 with very brightly colored bill and feet, and the brilliant ring 

 around the e3^e. All the colors are duller in the fall, although 

 even at that season adults are easily distinguished from the birds 

 of the year. The two species are easily told apart at any distance 

 by the paleness of ^. melodus, which closely resembles the winter 

 condition of the sanderliuo-. 



Aegialitis wilsouins. 



The characteristic species of the family ; summer resident ; 

 breeding abundantly. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



Iris brown ; no conspicuous coloring of the edges of the eye- 

 lids ; bill wholly black ; legs pale flesh-color, sometimes with a 

 livid, at others with a 3-ellowish, tint. Shade of the upper parts 

 intermediate between that of meloclus and of semipalmatus ; % 

 with a perfect black pectoral collar and bar across the vertex, the 

 nape and cervix strongly tinged with rufous, as in the western 

 species ; 9 with the bars plain grajdsh-brown, and with little 

 rufous ; young, like the female, but duller and grayer. When 

 newly hatched, the down of the upper parts is curiously varie- 

 gated with brown and black ; the under parts are pure white ; the 

 bill and feet are as in the adult. 



None of these Plovers winter here. They come from the south 

 late in March, with constant increase during April ; a part pass 

 further north in May, but many remain to breed. Excepting a 

 few stray sandpipers, they are the only waders of the beach during 

 June and July. Before pairing and resorting to the sand-dunes 

 to breed, they frequent the beach, sand-shoals, mud-flats, and scant- 

 herbaged salt meadows indifferently, in flocks of considerable size, 

 keeping much among themselves ; their size, longer legs, and large 

 black bill render them conspicuous among their congeners ; they 

 are rather shyer than the rest, and their note is decidedly differ- 

 ent. In those opened were found gravel, insects, soft substances 

 apparently both animal and vegetable, and fragments of small 

 molluscs, particularly the fragile young of the Solen ensis. 



Some account of their nidification, and a description of the eggs, 

 will be found in the American Naturalist for September, 18G9. 

 This occasion is taken to repeat that the usual number of eggs is 

 three, not four. 



Squatarola helvetica. 



Abundant during the migration, particularly in October. Here 

 they frequent the water-edges, and the flesh is hardly so good as 

 when they feed over uplands. 



Strepsilas interpres. 



Very common during the migration, and some probably winter. 

 In May, just before they leave, very perfect specimens may be pro- 

 cured. They begin to return the last of August, and soon become 

 abundant. Many of the old birds at this time retain much of 

 their spring attire, and are thus readily distinguished from the 

 young. 

 1871.] 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Gallinago wilsonii. 



Common during the migration, and often in winter ; but are 

 somewhat uncertain. They frequent the marsh, &c. ; but rarely, 

 if ever, the more open ground about the harbor. 



Macrorhamphus griseus. 



Yery abundant during the migration, and perhaps some winter, 

 as they may be taken in December. They occur in large flocks 

 on the sand-bars and mud-flats, as well as on the salt meadows; 

 and aff'ord excellent shooting. They are not so common in the 

 spring, and the passage is more rapid. 



Pelidna americana. 



Yery abundant, April and May, and September to November ; 

 some may remain all winter. A large part of them attain their per- 

 fect dress before leaving in the spring ; and it is partly retained by 

 many during the full migration, when, however, most of them are 

 in plain gray plumage. The vernal change begins early in April, 

 soon after the main body arrives from the south. Even in spring 

 they are often found exceedingly fat ; and in the fall their corpu- 

 lence seems onlj'' limited by the capacity for expansion of the 

 skin. In examining a great number, I found a variation of a third 

 of an inch in the length of the bill ; but this is alwa3^s consider- 

 ably over an inch long, and never quite straight. They seem to 

 prefer muddy flats to the beach, and are among the most snipe- 

 like of the sandpipers. 



Actodromas bonapartei. 



Common, during the migration, associating in flocks with 

 several other species. The larger size, and conspicuously white 

 rump, mark it at once from Ereimetes, and the next species, its 

 most frequent companions. 



This little species is liable to be found in sandy and muddy 

 places throughout North America, east of the Rocky Mountains. 

 It breeds in Labrador, where, in July and August, it is one of the 

 most abundant shore birds ; and in various parts of British 

 America. I found it migrating through Kansas in May. 



Actodromas minutilla. 



Extremely abundant, April and May, and August to October, 

 both on the beacli, in flocks with the nest, and also in muddy 

 meadows. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 31 



The beach and marsh are cleared of all their sandpipers about 

 the first of June ; and, for some six weeks, scarcely a straggler of 

 an}^ sort is to be seen. But about the middle of July — a few 

 days before or after the 15th — a few of this and the next species 

 reappear, and in August the numbers are materiall}^ increased, 

 still in advance of the main body of September arrivals. It is 

 an open question about these July birds. It seems improbable 

 that the}'^ should have gone so far north as the most southern 

 places where we know of their breeding, and have raised a brood, 

 in the short six weeks of their disappearance. Probably they are 

 either those that left in the van of the spring migration, or those 

 that did not accomplish a complete migration, from whatever 

 cause. 



Ereunetes pusillus. 



Extremely abundant, as elsewhere along the Atlantic coast, 

 during the migrations ; here, chiefly from early April to June, 

 and from August (see above) through October. They show as 

 decided preference for the beach as the least sandpipers do for 

 muddy flats. 



Calidris arenaria. 



Very abundant at all times, excepting during the three summer 

 months. The greater number pass north early in May, but a few 

 linger until June. Some arrive late in August, and most of them 

 in September. After October they are conspicuous by their light 

 color, appearing almost white at a distance. The vernal change 

 commences in April, but the process is slow, and few completely 

 ruddy birds are seen here. Up to a short time before their de- 

 parture, they continue in compact flocks ; but in May, are more 

 dispersed, and the prospective pairs are seen chasing each other 

 over the sand, the males, puffed up to nearly twice their usual 

 size, going through a variety of odd motions, and piping in ex- 

 cited tones.^ 



1 In this bird, with no external trace of a hallux, the accessory metatarsal is 

 present, without, however, bearing even a rudimentary phalanx, and without 

 causing any protuberance of the metatarsal envelope. It is a small oval or 

 somewhat reniform ossicle, slightly twisted on itself, and deeply sulcate 

 along the middle, lying in the fossa between the three prongs of tlic meta- 

 tarse, where it is ligamentously bound down. It lacks the usual roughened 

 surface of opposition with the principal bone. Independently of morpholo- 

 18T1.] 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Symphemia semipalinata. 



Resident, but less common during the colder months ; very 

 abundant at other times, and one of the few waders that regularly 

 breed here. Numbers arrive from the south in March and April; 

 a part of them proceed further north, and the rest, in May, scatter 

 over the marshes to breed. In August the ranks are again re- 

 cruited by the numbers hatched here, and in September by others 

 returning. The large size, variegated color, and restless, noisy 

 disposition combine to render it one of the most notable birds of 

 the vicinity in summei'. 



Gambetta melanoleuca. < 



Gambetta flavipes. 



Both common during the migration — the first named the more 

 abundant. 



Rhyacophilus solitarius. 



Onl}' observed in April and May, and September and October, 

 and not abundant. 



Tringoides macularius. 



Summer resident, arriving late in March, becoming very abun- 

 dant in April, and the greater number passing north in May; but 

 the young are common in July. 



Limosa fedoa. 



Abundant during the migrations, particularly in the fall. Pos- 

 sibly some may breed in the vicinit}^, but I am not sure of this. 

 Some appear in August, many moi'e in September, and they con- 

 tinue plentiful about the harbor until December. 



Numenius longirostris. 



Resident ; abundant during the migrations, and rather common 

 at other times. I observed it in February, and at irregular intervals 

 through the summer, when it is sparingly dispersed over the 

 marshes, in all probability breeding. 



Immense flights of curlew sometimes occur in October and 



gical considerations, its presence is not readily accounted for ; but it seems 

 to be a sort of trochlear ossicle, for the guidance if not the increased action 

 of the flexor tendons. This bone, in a more or less rudime'ntary condition, 

 may perhaps be discovered in more three-toed birds than are now believed 

 to possess it. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



March. Some flocks that I witnessed must have contained 

 thousands of birds. These were not the species just named, but 

 "whetlier hudsonicus or borealis was not ascertained. 



Recurvirostra americana. 



I scarcely think that this is a regular, and it certainly is not, 

 according to my observations, a common migrant here. The only 

 time I identified it with certainty, was on the 12th of September, 

 when a flock of six was seen. 



Ardea herodias. 



A resident species, common on the marshes at all seasons. 

 This and the Bittern are the only species of the family' that I 

 observed in winter. I do not know that it breeds in the imme- 

 diate vicinit}^, but such is probably the case. 



Herodias egretta. 



Only observed late in summer, and through autumn, when 

 raoderatel}^ common, and generally seen in small flocks. 



Garzetta candidissima. 



Apparently a summer resident, though not observed breeding. 

 I first saw it early in May, when it appeared to be migrating, but 

 individuals were obtained at various times during the summer. 

 Thej'^ were oftenest in flocks of considerable size. Old birds killed 

 in July still had lengthened plumes on the head and breast, but 

 the former were not recurved, and the dorsal ones were wanting. 

 Except in these respects, the birds of the year were like the adults. 

 The}^ remain until October at least, and probably later. 



Butorides virescens. 



Summer resident, and verj' abundant, arriving late in March 

 and early in April, and remaining until October. They breed in 

 colonies with the jackdaws, placing the nests in the thick shrub- 

 bery that covers part of this end of the island. The nests are 

 rather large and frail platforms of loosely interlaced twigs, built 

 on dense beds of small branches, or saddled in a crotch, or swung 

 like hammocks upon a mass of climbing vines. The birds begin 

 to lay the second or third week in April, but some do not fill the 

 nest until after the first of May. The complement is usually five 

 or six; but I have found only four, and in one instance seven — 

 the latter number probably being the maximum. The old birds 



1871.] 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



sbed their dorsal plumes during the period of incubation ; the 

 young, for some time after quitting the nest, show traces of down 

 here and there, particularly about the head. 



Botaurus lentiginosus. 



I tliinlc that the Bittern will prove a resident species here, 

 though I have only observed it from September to May. It is 

 quite common in the fall; thus, I have shot two or three, and 

 seen as many more in an afternoon's walk in October. Singular 

 as it may seem, viewing the abundance of the bird, and its wide 

 distribution over Xorth America, a complete histor}'' has not yet 

 appeared. The earlier accounts are defective, and not entirely 

 accurate. Perhaps the best notice we have is Mr. Endicott's, in 

 the American Naturalist, iii, p. 169. 



Kallus crepitans. (= R. longirostris, Bodd.) 



This is probably the most abundant, and it is certainly one of 

 the most characteristic birds of the locality. It should j^roperly 

 be classed among the resident species, although its numbers are 

 greatly diminished during December to February, and it may 

 entirely disappear in very cold weather. Its ranks are largel}^ 

 recruited in March, and little or no decrease is perceptible until 

 November. It becomes very noisy in April, and the marshes 

 resound with its harsh cries until the next autumn. The laying 

 season is at its height during the latter part of April, and through 

 a portion of May ; but eggs may be procured nearly all summer. 

 A full account of its nidification, with other particulars, will be 

 found in the American Naturalist, iii, p. 600. I have nothing to 

 add to what is there given, but I would now increase the number 

 stated as an average nest-complement of eggs, to nine or ten. 

 The largest number found in a nest was twelve, although there is 

 no certainty", in such a case as this, that all were deposited by the 

 same bird.* 



' Embryos about one-half developecl, taken May 14, afforded the follow- 

 ing tracts of the downy plumage. Pteryla capitis continuous, thougli weak, 

 and running uninterrupted into prolongation of both spinal and ventral. 

 The strong pt. spinalis commences as a single band on the median line over 

 the coccyx, divides after passing the pelvis into two slightly divaricating 

 bands, that approach but do not join on the cervix, and run uninterrupted 

 to the nape — inclosing a narrowly lanceolate space on the back, and a 

 linear one on the hind neck ; but this is very narrow, and would probably 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



Forzaua Carolina. 



During the migration onl}-, in April, Maj-, and part of August 

 to October ; then common. 



P. noveboracensis. 



One individual observed April 12th, under circumstances that 

 left no doubt of the identification. 



The numbers of wild-fowl that throng the sinuosities of the 

 coast in winter are simpl}^ incalculable. Immense flocks cover the 

 waters of the harbor; and 3^et these are said to be inconsiderable 

 compared with those upon the land-bound reaches of water a 

 little removed from the coast. Aside from the natural conditions 

 determining this influx of the Anatidse, such as congenial latitude, 

 convenient feeding-grounds, and an abundant supply of food, we 

 ma}^ attribute a part of the number of water-fowl to the incessant 

 and systematic persecution they suffer somewhat further north. 

 Here they are comparativel}'' free from annoyance, their destruc- 

 tion not being attempted methodicall}', nor usually with any con- 

 siderable degree of skill. A few of the species appear in the early 

 fall, but the great flight does not fairly set in until the cold 

 weather of November. The numbers are full the following month, 

 and continue undiminished through the winter. The decrease is 



disappear soon, by fusion of the two branches on the upper half of the neck 

 behind. The pt. humeralis is completely isolated by apterise from sur- 

 rounding tracts ; it is short but wide and strong, and lies parallel with 

 the spinal. The pt. femoralis is doubled ; an inner and outer row of 

 feathers are entirely separate, and both of them are strong. The under or 

 upper band arises over the extremity of the pelvis, and runs with slight 

 obliquity to the front of the knee ; the outer arises from the side of the 

 coccyx, and runs parallel with the other along the lower edge of the outer 

 aspect of the thigh to the crus ; it is there almost continuous with the 

 ventral tract, and is hut slightly separated at its origin from the caudalis ; 

 but is as widely separated from the other femoral tract as this last is from 

 the spinal. The pt. cruris is as yet only indicated by a few sparsely 

 distributed follicles, with the feathers beginning to protrude along the 

 anterior and posterior borders ; the pt. alaris is in the same condition, and 

 the caudahs but little more advanced. The ventral pteryla is double througli- 

 out ; its branches are separated from each other on the neck, by as much 

 space as they are from the spinal tract ; and rather abruptly divaricate on 

 the breast, inclosing a broad oval space, finally approaching gradually as 

 they pass backward. The anal circlet of feathers is just perceptible, but 

 that around the oil-gland is not visible. 

 1871.] 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



very great in March, and few are found later. I do not know 

 that more than one species is resident. 



Bernicla canadensis. 



A few geese ma^'^ come in October, but they are not plenty for 

 a month subseuqently. Some are to be seen in April, but the 

 greater number depart in March. I think that occasionally a 

 pair ma}^ remain to breed in the vicinity, as I have seen a brood 

 in domestication, said to have been raised from the egg ; a state- 

 ment that bears weight from the impossibilit}^ of procuring young 

 birds in any other wa}'. But such instances are doubtless excep- 

 tional. Geese may be procured, in season, for a dollar, or even 

 less, apiece ; a fact of itself attesting their abundance. 



Bernicla brenta. 



Common in winter, and seen until April 6. This and the last 

 were the only geese observed ; uor did I ever hear the gunners 

 allude to any white ones, though I should judge that A. hyper- 

 boreus would also occur in winter. 



Anas boschas. 

 Very common. 



Anas obscura. 

 Common. 



Dafila acuta. 



Common. Among the earlier October arrivals. 



Cbaulelasmus streperus. 

 Common. 



Mareca americanai 

 Common. 



Querquedula discors. 

 Nettion carolinensis. 



Both teals are very common, and are among the first to arrive, 

 and the last to leave ; flights occurring in September, and some- 

 times even in August. 



Aiz sponsa. 



Resident ; abundant ; breeds on the island. 



The Anatiuffi, as a group, are outnumbered in the harbor by 

 the Fuligulinn?, and none of them are so numerous as some of the 

 sea-ducks. The reverse is said to be the case on the inland waters. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



Bucephala americana. (= B. dangula ?) 

 Bucephala albeola. 

 Fulix marila. 

 Fulix affinis. 

 Aythya americana. 



Of these the two last named are apparently the most abundant. 

 The canvas-back I have never seen here. 



Oedemia perspicillata. 



Yery common. Early in November, 1870, before the comple- 

 ment of general wild-fowl was made up, these were perhaps the 

 most abundant ducks on the harbor, mixed with a number of the 

 next species. By far the larger proportion were females and 

 young. The young males at this season almost exactly resemble 

 the females ; having the two Avhitish spots on each side of the 

 head, and bill wholly black, the place of the future black spot in 

 the bill being indicated b}^ a slight corrugation of the skin. But 

 they are generally distinguishable by the presence of a few per- 

 fectl}^ black feathers about the head, and by the rather more 

 turgid bill. 



Oedemia americana. 



Common. The female and young are distinguished from those 

 of the last by the different number of tail-feathers, different shape 

 of bill, and the continuously whitish sides of the head ; other- 

 wise the resemblance is very close. Both are known as " black 

 ducks," and by a probable further confounding with A. ohscura, 

 are pronounced good eating by those who do not intend to eat 

 them. 



Mergus serrator. 



Very abundant. I should judge this to be the most numerous 

 of all the family in this vicinity. They are alwa3's on the harbor 

 from October to April, and a few both earlier and later ; and are 

 not much molested, being unacceptable even to not over-fasti- 

 dious people. The distribution of their colors, showing large pure 

 white areas, marks them out at any distance ; the Bucephala^ 

 being the only ducks to which thej^ bear any special resemblance. 



Pelecanus fuscus. 



A few observed at irregular intervals through the summer 

 months. 



1871.] 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Sula bassana. 



Several were seen during foul weather, in February and Marcli, 

 both 3'ears ; but the species is not a common, if indeed a regular, 

 winter visitor. 



Graculus floridaniis. 



Cormorants ma}'^ be seen at intervals the whole j'ear, and are 

 common except during the warmer mouths. There are two 

 species ; but I did not succeed in ascertaining their times of 

 arrival and departure. The summer birds are all, without doubt, 

 the G. fioridanus, to which species a full-plumaged specimen, 

 cai^tured in the spring of 1869, belonged ; and the winter ones 

 are in all probability 



Graculus dilophus. 



Very common in winter. Judging from the light brown ap- 

 pearance of most individuals observed at this season, they were 

 chiefly young birds. 



Puffiuus fuliginosus. 



A specimen taken May 21, 18Y0, in fine plumage, but injured 

 in one of the webs ; this disabilit}^ probably accounting for its 

 exceptional occurrence. It was caught b^' hand near the shore, 

 and kept alive for some time. Placed on a level surface, it could 

 with difficulty stand upright, and on endeavoring to walk, sprawl- 

 ed with the use of its wings and by hooking itself along with 

 the sharp point of the bill — not, however, grasping with both 

 mandibles. I was before ignorant of this method of assisting 

 locomotion on land, but can readily believe it to be a habit of 

 birds of this family, and a means of approaching and leaving the 

 places where many of the petrels are known to breed. The bird 

 showed some spirit, snapping with all its strength ; but was per- 

 fectly silent.^ 



• Length 18, extent 40, wing 12, tail 4, bill 1|, tarsus 2^, middle toe and 

 claw 2f . 



Some jDoints in the coloration of this specimen might lead one to suppose 

 it to be a state of P. major. The accompanyiug cut (of natural size) shows 

 a great irregularity in the contour of the posterior border of the sternum. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



Larus smithsonianus. 



Winter resident ; verj-^ abnndant ; the characteristic and onl}'- 

 common bii'd of the famil}' throughont that season. I have been 

 repeatcdl}^ assured that some of the " sea-gulls," as this species is 

 called in distinction from the smaller kinds, remain all summer, 

 but have never seen any at that season, and doubt the statement, 

 except perhaps in its application to diseased or otherwise disaliled 

 individuals. Some, however, certainly linger longer in spring than 

 would have been anticipated, being seen almost until June. There 

 is little falling off in their numbers in March; but most of them 

 pass northward early in April, about the time that the Terns and 

 Ghrcecocephali make their appearance. A few arrive in Septeml:ter, 

 but the}^ are not plentiful until the latter part of October. In 

 consequence of being rarely molested, the}' become quite familiar, 

 often mixing with the tame geese about the fort, and permitting 

 themselves to be approached within a few feet ; still, as a rule, 

 they show that they have an excellent idea of gunshot range. 

 Three styles of these gulls are easily distinguished. The birds of 

 the year are smokj'-brown (becoming grayer towards spring), and 

 differ in this respect from the young of any other species occur- 

 ring here. The birds hatched the previous summer but one are 

 pale gra3'ish, with the blue of the mantle showing in irregular 

 patches, the primaries wholly black, and the rectrices either the 

 same or white with a terminal black bar. The birds in their 

 third 3'^ear are in perfect plumage, but show the dusky streaking 

 of the head and hind neck characteristic of the winter plumage. 

 The bills of the birds of the first class are black; of the second, 

 flesh-color, black-tipped; of the third, j-ellow, with or without 

 the orange spot at the angle of the gonys. Most of the old birds 

 regain their nuptial dress before leaving. They are rather silent 

 during the winter, being rarely heard except when quarrelling for 

 food; but in April, before they move off, the air resounds with 

 their hoarse cries. Among the substances found in the stomach 

 were the remains of a marsh-hare, though I hardly think that the 

 animal could have been captured alive. 

 L. delawarensis. 



Spring and fall ; common, and jjrobabb/ also a winter resident, 

 although I did not identify it at that season.^ 



1 In winter the head and hind neck of this species are definitely njiotled 

 with blackish. In the case of the last species, and of, probably, the whole 

 1871.] 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Chroecoceplialus atricilla. 



Extremel}' abundant, in spring and fall. They appear the last 

 of March or early in April, and become plentiful during the latter 

 month. They remain so late, and are absent so short a time 

 during the summer, that I think some breed near by, though I 

 found none actually' nesting in the vicinity. Probably onlj' two 

 years, instead of three, as in the ease of the larger Lari, are 

 required for them to assume the perfect plumage. The majority 

 of the spring birds are in full attire, but among them a large 

 number of the conspicuously brown birds of the preceding year 

 are always seen. A few return in August, many more in Septem- 

 ber, and by the last of this month their number defies computation. 

 It is no exaggeration to say that I have seen a thousand rise at 

 the same moment from a single sand-bar where they were resting 

 and Illuming themselves after feeding. They fish in companies 

 often of numbers but little iuferior, following the shoals of small 

 fry about the harbor, continually descending upon them, and 

 rising on wing again after a moment's half-submergence. At 

 such times they are in pursuit of the small fish that form the 

 principal food of the blue-fish, and their presence is an unfailing 

 guide. At this season the brown birds greatly outnumber the 

 others. The adults are mostly moulting when they return, and 

 retain traces of the spring plumage — seen in a slight glow of the 

 under plumage, carmine tint in the duskj^ of the bill, red mouth, 

 and slate about the head — at least until October, when the renewal 

 is completed. The young of the year are quite definitely brown, 

 etc., and bear little resemblance to the parents; but they may 

 always be distinguished from any other gull by the length of the 

 tarsus in comparison Avith the toes, and by the downward curva- 

 ture of the end of the bill, which is sufficient to bring the tip 

 nearly on a level with the angle at the sj'mphysis. The birds thin 



race of "herriug-gulls," as argentatus, occidentalism etc., the same parts 

 are streaked with lighter dusky. lu the gulls without black on the primaries, 

 as glaucus, glaucescens, leucopterus, etc., this winter marking takes the form 

 of obscure cloiidijig with grayish. These distinctions hold good with all 

 the species of the family with which I am acquainted, and, moreover, the 

 darkness of the plumage of the young of the year, in all, is correspondingly 

 graduated from smoky -brown to pale gray. Similarly, the primaries and 

 tail-feathers of the "white-winged" gulls above mentioned are, for the first 

 year, gray like the general plumage ; while those of the others (including 

 marinus) are black. 



[May 2, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnilA. 41 



off in November, and few are seen after this month. I am not 

 sure that amj remain all winter. 



Chroecocephalus Philadelphia. 



Extremely abundant, but only in spring and fall, being strictly 



migrants here. The}' appear about the first week in April with 



the last species, generally remain through most of May, and 



return in September, remaining until the end of November. But 



this general statement may be somewhat qualified in detail b}' 



some observations that have interesting bearing, unless I wrongly 



interpret them. In 1869, from the beginning of April until the 



22d, the birds were here in great numbers, and with a marked 



preponderance of old full-plumaged individuals. Without any 



change in the weather, or other assignable cause, they suddenly'' 



disappeared, presumablj^ having moved northward. For a week 



or ten days scarcely one was to be seen; when they became more 



numerous, if possible, than before, and so continued through the 



greater part of May. This last lot was almost entirely composed 



of birds of the previous year, as shown b}^ the plumage, there 



being hardly a black-headed one among them. I should judge, 



therefore, that the old birds migrate in advance of the young, and 



also that they move the more hurriedly of the two. It is probable, 



moreover, that only these adults were going to breed that year, 



although it is pretty certain that some gulls, at least, reproduce 



before gaining their perfect plumage. In the fall few black-headed 



ones are ever seen, the hood being lost before they reach this 



latitude; but even at this season the old and young are readily 



distiuguished by other marks. Man}' return in September, and 



then the earliest ones to come are the young. I verified the same 



o-eneral observations through four migrations that I witnessed. 



This year (1810) there were few — almost no — birds in part of 



October, after the September young appeared to have passed on ; 



but as I write (Nov. 18) the harbor is covered with thousands 



of old ones in their winter dress. They appear at a little distance 



almost pure white, and are beautifully conspicuous among the 



other gulls and the terns with which they associate. 



Audubon is certainly mistaken in representing the female of 

 this species with a brown hood. The sexes are not distinguish- 

 able by any outward marks. If there is a United States gull with 

 the head of the color shown in the plate just alluded to, it must 

 18*11.] PART I. — 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



belong to a species that has escaped the notice of later ornitho- 

 logists.^ 



Thalasseus regius. 



This tern certainl}^ breeds somewhere in the vicinity ; for, 

 although I did not find any nests, I saw it constantly through 

 two summers, and occasionally noticed birds so young that the}"^ 

 were still receiving attentions from their parents ; while in June 

 and July small flocks were often noticed pursuing so straight a 

 course for long distances, that I had no doubt they were passing 

 directly between their nests and their feeding-places. It commonly 

 arrives from the south early in April, and through this and the 

 next month is more abundant than at other times until the fall — 

 a part, I presume, passing further north. It becomes numerous 

 again in September, and so continues until the end of November. 

 I cannot say whether or not any remain all winter, but think that, 

 if observed at that season, it will be an exceptional case. It is 

 more wary than any of the other terns, and is always the first 

 to rise among the miscellaneous troops that fleck the sand-bars. 

 It is conspicuous by its size and bright red bill ; and the young 

 are easil}' distinguished hy the smaller size, yellow instead of 

 red bill, and spotted plumage. The old birds lose the black 

 pileum in September, the crown then becoming white, bordered 

 behind by the long, loose blackish feathers of the occiput, and 

 a few other dark ones on the sides of the head. The bill in 

 winter is not so vivid in color as in summer, and much shorter. 

 All the changes of the old are finished b}' October ; but the j^oung 

 remain blotched, and with mere traces of the pearl-blue mantle, all 

 the fall. I took one old bird with the feet curiously mottled with 

 yellowish and black, and yellow claws — probably a pathological 

 state, although the bird appeared perfectly health3\ These are 

 vigorous, spirited birds, showing good fight when captured, and 

 strong enough to bite prett}' severely. Their voice is loud and 

 raucous, though still without the deep guttural intonation of that 

 of the shear-waters. 



Thalasseus acuflavidus. 



Chiefly a migrant, but also a winter resident, sparingly ; none 

 observed to pass the summer here. It becomes numerous early 

 in April, with the last, and remains through part of May ; returns 



' Qu. Larus capistratus of Bonaparte's Synopsis. 



[May 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



in September (a few probably somewhat earlier), and is very com- 

 mon until December. A large number shot in the middle of Sep- 

 tember were in the same condition of plumage as T. regius was 

 at the same time. The species ma^^ be marked out among its allies 

 b}^ its size, its singularly trim shape, conspicuousl}^ black, long bill, 

 yellow-pointed, and a gQUQval whiteness ; the mantle being paler 

 than in any of the others. Specimens, even in the fall, frequently 

 show a rosy blush of the under plumage, much like that generally 

 supposed to characterize T. elegans of the California coast. 



The difference in "the pattern of the coloration of the primaries 

 of this bird, that was noted in my "Review" as separating the 

 species (or whatever it is to be considered) from the European T. 

 cantiacus, has not failed in a single instance that has come to my 

 knowledge. No reliance, however, can be placed upon the yellow 

 tip of the bill as a character ; this varies from nothing (in imma- 

 ture specimens) up to a third, or nearly, of the total length of the 

 bill, and no two specimens show exactly the same line of demar- 

 cation between the yellow and the black. Specimens, as usual 

 in this familj^, differ much in size, and particularly in the length 

 and stoutness of the bill. The feet are always black, as in T. 

 7'egius. 



Sterna Mrundo. 



Yery common, but onlj- during the migration. Arriving from 

 the south earl}^ in April, they all pass on during the following- 

 month. They are abundant again in September and October, 

 perhaps a little earlier and later, but I identified none except 

 during these months. In the spring they are scarcely to be told 

 with certainty, unless shot ; but in the fall they are conspicuous 

 by the fact that they retain the black pileum, at least as long as 

 they remain here. It has been stated, upon eminent authority, 

 that this species never loses the black on the head ; and, although 

 I do not confirm this from examination of specimens taken in 

 the depth of winter, my observations until the end of October 

 support it, and I do not remember to have seen in any museum 

 a Wilson's tern without the feature in question. Numbers shot 

 here in September had completed the winter plumage, and were 

 newl}- feathered, except on the crown, where the black looked worn 

 and faded, but was still unmixed with white, except a few specks 

 on the extreme front. I presume that the change on this part of 



1871.] 




44 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



the body is very gradual. At this season the feet were simply 

 orange-3'ellow, not vermilion, and the bill was dusky-shaded 

 throughout. Some of the year's young had nearly perfect wing 

 and tail featliers ; but the mantle showed dusky mottling, with 

 some blackish areas upon the wing-coverts ; while younger still 

 were marbled and otherwise beautifully variegated with gra}', 

 light brown, &c. In all the young, the feet were yellowish, more 

 or less obscured ; and the bill mostl,y black, with yellow or orange 

 on the basal part of the under mandible ; it was smaller than that 

 of the old, not so horny, and more obtuse. 



Sterna Forsteri. 



Chiefly migrant, but also winter resident. Compared with the 

 last, there is, I think, a difference in the migrations, &c., something 

 like that I have endeavored to show in the case of the Ammodromi^ 

 this being the more northerly species of the two, migrating earlier 

 in the spring and later in the fall, and wintering where 8. Wilsoni 

 does not ; of the breeding I can say nothing from personal obser- 

 vation. A few Forster's terns come back in August ; the}" become 

 abundant the following month, and there is little or no decrease 

 of their numbers until December, when a part go further south, to 

 return the latter part of March, and the rest remain. It is one 

 of the most plentiful terns on the harbor in October and ^N'ovem- 

 ber, when it may be distinguished at any reasonable distance with 

 ease ; Wilson's tern being the only one at all resembling it, and 

 this being marked in the manner just indicated. Forster's at this 

 season has the crown white, the occiput blackish, and a remark- 

 ably distinct black transocular fascia, better marked than in any 

 other species of ours. In this plumage it is unquestionably S. 

 havelli, Aud., as I pointed out some years since. The bill is nearly 

 as in summer, but not so bright ; the feet are orange instead of 

 red. This plumage was finished in all of a number of old birds 

 shot the second week in September. The young of the year can 

 also be distinguished from the young of hirundo at ordinarj^ g^^n- 

 shot range. The whole head is white, faintly washed with brown- 

 ish, except the transocular fascia, which is pure black, and very 

 sharply defined ; but nearly all the feathers of the crown have 

 dusky bases, that will increase during the fall and coming winter, 

 until the condition above noticed is attained. The eye-stripe is 

 i^ inch long and about ^ an inch wide, reaching from the lores 



[May 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 45 



through the eyes to and over the auriculars. The blue mantle 

 only partly appears at this time, being lightly washed over with 

 gray and clear brown; the rectrices are heavily dusky, as in 

 hitntndo at the same season, but the dark color is on opposite 

 webs in the two species. The wing-feathers are new and perfect, 

 and more hoary-silvery than those of hirundo of the same ao-e • 

 but the pattern of coloration is exactly duplicated. The feet are 

 yellow, more or less obscured with duskj'. 



Sterna antillarum. 



Summer resident, from early in April until October ; and, except 

 at the height of the influx of the other kinds, the most abundant 

 tern of all. It breeds here in great numbers. Referrino- ao-ain 

 to an article in the American Naturalist for September, 1869, for 

 an account of its nidification, I have only to add here — 



A tern shot May IT, had then an egg ready to be laid ; but 

 most of the eggs are deposited towards June, and during the fore 

 part of that month. The first young birds I noticed were flying 

 June 20th ; but this was early for them, the broods not being 

 fairly on wing until the middle of July. During all of May and 

 June, indeed, there are plenty of immature birds about; but 

 these, it should be observed, are of the last summer's broods, 

 rendering the conclusion obvious that at least two j'ears are 

 required to assume the perfect dress. These birds have the bill 

 black, no black cap or white crescent, slaty auriculars and occiput, 

 dark bar along the front edge of the wing, imperfectly colored 

 primaries, and slightly forked tail ; thus not possibly to be con- 

 founded with birds of the season, which are curiously variegated 

 with graj'^-brown, and white, and show no pearly blue. The year- 

 lings were in plenty with the adults at the breeding-grounds ; but 

 whether or not the}^ were paired and had eggs too, was plainly im- 

 possible to determine, as terns' eggs are almost never identified 

 as to the exact parent, when numbers of the birds are breed- 

 ing together. The usual number of eggs, I may repeat, is two, 

 not three, and often only one is laid ; they do not average over 

 1:1^ X 1 inch. The black tip of the bill of this species varies from 

 nothing to a fourth of the length of the bill. The distinctions 

 between the species and S. minuta are constant and perfectly 

 satisfactory. 



isn.] 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hydrochelidon fissipes. 



Migrant only ; very abundant. This tern differs somewhat 

 from the rest, in its times of migrating and other particulars. It 

 is not very common, comparativel}', in spring, and passes north 

 swiftly and silentl}^ The first spring I saw none until May 15th, 

 and had begun to think that I had missed them, or that they 

 ■ were migrating inland, when they became plenty, but only for a 

 week or ten days. All that I saw were in perfect spring dress. 

 They return in the van of all the terns, about the second week in 

 August, when many are still black, but bj' far the greater number 

 in the plumage of the j'oung. They remain until October — not 

 later, I think — and during September are as common as any of the 

 others. Although they flock with the rest over the harbor, and on 

 its sand-bars, they also frequent the marsh, where they flutter about 

 for hours, busy catching insects — chiefl}^ grasshoppers, I think — 

 in a manner that reminds one of night-hawks similarly engaged ; 

 and, in fact, the two birds are frequently associated together at 

 such times. 



Haliplana fuliginosa. 



Concerning this species I can offer nothing bej'ond the record 

 of the appearance of a flock Alarch 16, 1869, during a southwest 

 gale. I have seen none since, and can as little account for this 

 as for their isolated appearance on that occasion. If, as is most 

 probable, the gull-billed, arctic and roseate terns pass this point, 

 they escaped me altogether. 



Rhynchops nigra. 



These birds I have only noticed late in the summer, and during 

 the autumn, though I presume that they pass by in the spring '■> 

 none breed here, to my knowledge. In September they become 

 plentiful, and so continue until the latter part of November, some 

 doubtless remaining later. In examining large numbers of spe- 

 cimens, I find a great difference in size, and particularly in the bill. 

 Some individuals are fully a third heavier than others. The bill 

 varies over an inch in length, and especially in the length of the 

 under mandible. Sometimes the difference between the two man- 

 dibles is hardly a third of an inch; at others, over an inch. The 

 oblique striae on the under one are sometimes obsolete. In high 

 condition, the bill is bright red (vermilion) and black ; otherwise, 

 orange and black, or even mostly dusky, only yellowish at base. 



[May 9, 




NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4Y 



The young in the fall are curiously variegated with dusky and 

 whitish above — few specimens being exactly alike. The note of 

 this species is instantly distinguished from that of any of our other 

 species of this family b}^ its deep guttural intonation, more like 

 the croakino; of some herons than the cries of the o-ulls and terns. 

 The bird also differs from its allies in going in true flocks, as 

 distinguished from the gatherings, however large, in community 

 of interest, that occur with the gulls and terns. The birds move 

 synchronously, which is not the case with any of the others. They 

 feed chiefly by night, or at any rate in the dusk of evening, at 

 which time, in passing over the harbor, one maj^ hear their hoarse 

 notes on every hand, and see the birds gliding swiftly along just 

 over the water, either singly or in small flocks. During the day- 

 time, when the gulls and terns ai-e busy fishing, the skimmers are 

 generally seen reposing on the sand-bars, and they never drop on 

 their prey like their allies. Their mode of feeding is not exactly 

 made out, but it is believed they skim over the surface with the 

 body inclined downward, the bill open, and the under mandible in 

 the water, so that they really take their prey in a manner analo- 

 gous to the feeding of whales. 



Colymbus torquatus. 



Abundant winter resident, from the latter part of September 

 until Mixy. The greater part, however, do not arrive until some 

 time in October, and a few linger through a portion of Ma^'. I 

 took one full-plumaged bird alive in the latter part of June ; but 

 it had evidently been prevented from migrating by sickness, and 

 died shortly afterward. 



Podiceps cristatus. 



Occasional, in winter. (Specimen, January 29, 1870.) 



Podilymbus podiceps. 

 Frequent, in winter. 



III. KEPTILES. 

 I am indebted to my friend Mr. J. A. Allen, of Cambridge, 

 Mass., for identification of some of the specimens. 



Saitria. 



Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, D, & B. 



Yery abundant on the islands and sandy parts of the adjoin- 

 ing mainland. They appear usually early in April, and may be 

 1871.] 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



found until cold weather in October. In spite of their remark- 

 able agility, they are one of the animals oftenest found in the 

 stomach of the larger snakes. 



Alligator mississippiensis. 



Of common and regular occurrence in the swamps of the ad- 

 joining land, and said also to occur in the woody, marshy part 

 of the island. 



OpMsaurus ventralis, Daud. 



One of the most abundant and characteristic reptiles of the 

 island. The first examples noticed each year wei-e taken the 

 third week in March, and this is probably the usual time of their 

 appearance. Like the smaller lizard, they are out until the cold 

 weather of October. They avoid the wetter parts of the island, 

 and are especially numerous in open grassy places, as about the 

 fort, where they may be almost daily taken during the summer- 

 They appear rather inactive, if not sluggish, make little or no 

 resistance when captured, and readily become tame. With an 

 average length of a foot and a half, specimens were taken ranging 

 from a few inches to nearly a 3'ard ; and the tints vary greatly, 

 the variation being apparently a matter of individual peculiarity. 



Ophidia. 



Caudisona horrida (Li)in.), Cope, Pr. A. N. S. Philada. 1859, 338, and Smiths. 

 Cont., Jan. 1861, 122. 



Common in the vicinity, and certainly occurring on the islands 

 as well, though not obtained there. One specimen measured 

 upwards of five feet in length. 



Ancistrodon contortrix, B. & Gr. 



Common, chiefly in low, moist places. 



Nerodia sipedon, B. & G. 



Rather uncommon here, according to my observations. One 

 specimen was taken in the open sea, swimming among the breakers. 



OpMbolus getulus, B. & G. 



Common. Females with eggs taken in Sn\y. One specimen, 

 nearly 6 feet long, presented a different pattern of coloration from 

 that usually seen ; one set of branches of the series of bifurcations 

 of the yellow lines being defective, giving the snake the appear- 



[May 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 40 



ance of being obliquely baudecl, without perfect distinction of 

 the black hexao-ons alono; the back. 



Bascanion constrictor, B. & G. 

 Very common. 



Lepotophis aestivus, Holbr. 



Of frequent occurrence, particularly in thick bushy places. 



Testudinata. 



Malacoclemys palustris, Ag. 

 Yery abundant. 



Chelonia midas, Schw. 



Common. 



Besides the foregoing, three other species, not determined, were 

 noticed, one of which is called " chicken-turtle," and another is a 

 Cistudo. 



Xo species of batrachian was noticed on the island during my 

 residence. On the mainland, and also on Shackleford, two 

 species of Rana (undetermined), and a Hyla, were observed. 

 The toad (B. lentiginosus = B. araericauus ?) is very abundant on 

 the mainland. Great numbers were observed in the ditches, 

 March 27, 1869, and within a few days of the same time the fol- 

 lowing 3'ear, copulating and very clamorous. Probably, then, this 

 is their usual time of spawning. 



(To be continued.) 



• •♦' 



isn.j 




50 proceedings of the academy op 



Pebruary 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



Prof. Leidy stated that he had recentl}'' received a small col- 

 lection of fossils for examination from Prof. J. D. Whitne}^, who 

 obtained them from California. The specimens are as follows: — 



A fragment of an inferior molar, apparently of llasfodon ameri- 

 canits. Of this specimen Prof. Whitnc}^ remarks that it was ob- 

 tained from a depth of 80 feet beneath the basaltic lava of Table 

 Mountain, Tuolumne County, Cal., where it was found in associa- 

 tion with remains of human art. 



A much worn lower molar of a large horse, probabl}^ the Equus 

 paciflcus. From 16 feet on Gorden Gulch. The triturating sur- 

 face of the crown measures 13i lines fore and aft, and 10 lines 

 transversely, inclusive of the cementum. 



Two equine molar teeth, which, according to the accompanying 

 label, were obtained 350 feet below the surface, at Soulsbyville, 

 Tuolumne County, Cal. One is an unworn upper back molar, 

 appai'cntly of a species of Pr-otohippiis. It is moderately curved 

 from behind forward and downward, but only slightly from within 

 outward. It is 21 lines long in a straight line. Its irreatest 



o o o 



breadth above the middle, fore and aft, is nearly 9 lines ; its thick- 

 ness, about T lines. 



The other tooth is a lower molar, about one-third worn, proba- 

 bly of the same species. The triturating surface is 10 lines fore 

 and aft, and nearly *7 transversely. 



Two teeth labelled "Found 10 feet below the surface at Dry 

 Creek, near Bear Creek, Mercer Count}^, Cal." One of the speci- 

 mens appears to be the portion of a canine tooth, and the other 

 is an incisor. They resemble in form the corresponding teeth of 

 the lama, and probably belong to a species of the same genus. 

 The incisor is about 1^ inch in length ; the crown externally is 

 11 lines long and 4|- lines wide. 



In a recent letter. Prof. Whitney informs me that the collection 

 of fossils, indicated in the Proceedings for 1810, page 125, was 

 obtained from the same locality as the two teeth just mentioned ; 

 that is to say, from Dry Creek, Mercer County, Cal. The locality 

 given at the time with the notice of the specimens is erroneous. 



February 14. 

 Mr. Vaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eleven members present. 



[May 9, 




natural sciences op philadelphia. 51 



February 21. 

 Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



February 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one members present. 



The following were elected members : — 



Caleb Cressou, J. B. White, M.D., William. P. Jenks, Henry T. 

 Peck, Archibald Mclntyre, John McLaughlin, Lewis Thompson, 

 George Thompson, Rachel L. Bodlej^, Lieut. Clarence E. Button, 

 S. J. W. Mintzer, M.D., Elizabeth Shreve, Charles C. Phillips, 

 Richard Morris Smith, S.Warren O'Neil, Charles T. Yerkes,Jr. 



S. B. Buckley was elected a correspondent. 



On favorable report of the committee, a paper "On Certain 

 Species of Falconidse, Tetraonidfe, and Anatidse," b}' Prof. A. 

 Newton, was ordered to be printed. 



March Y. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : — 

 " Descriptions of new species of Invertebrate fossils from the 

 Carboniferous and Devonian Rocks of Ohio." By F. B. Meek. 

 The death of Dr. Charles M. Wetherill was reported. 



Mr. Thomas Mbehan referred to some observations he made 

 before the Academy last autumn in regard to a peculiar storing up 

 of turpentine in the common insect, Redumus novenm-iu^. Since 

 then entomologists had been investigating the use for which this 

 turpentine was employed, without success. He was now able to 

 report that it was for the purpose of fastening its eggs on the 

 branches of trees, and for sticking them together. Also, in pro- 

 bability, as a means of protection against enemies and tlie weather. 

 The eggs of the Redumus were inserted in groups, and each set 

 upright one against another with the turpentine, like the cell in a 



1871.] 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



lioneycomb. It had liitherto been supposed by entomologists that 

 the matter used for this purpose was a secretion of the insect 

 itself; but so far as he could judge by the senses, the matter used 

 was merely turpentine, and no doubt the turpentine he had ob- 

 served the insect storing up in the fall. 



Mr. Meehan exhibited some flowers of the common Bouvardia 

 leiantha of the green-houses, and of the hardy Deutzia gracilis, 

 and referred to his papers, published a few years ago in the Pro- 

 ceedings of the Academy, on practical dicccism in the trailiug 

 Arbutus (Ejngdea repens) and MitcheUa repens, in which he 

 pointed out that these plants, though apparently hermaphrodite, 

 had the stamens and pistils of difterent characters in separate 

 l^lants, and were, therefore, subject to the laws of cross-fertiliza- 

 tion as indicated by Darwin. He had had his attention called to 

 the Bouvardia, by Mr. Tatnall, of Wilmington, Del., as furnishing 

 a similar instance to that of Epigsea and MitcheUa, to the same 

 natural order as which the Ginchoneous division of Ruhiacese the 

 Bouvardia belonged. These had some plants with the pistils 

 exserted, while in others only the stamens were visible at the 

 mouth of the corolla tube. Mr. Tatnall had not had the matter 

 suggested to him early enough to b^j that it was so in all cases ; 

 but he believed that these flowers, which practicall}'' might be 

 termed pistillate and staminate, were found entirely on separate 

 plants. This is a very important fact, as the Bouvardia is not 

 raised from seeds in green-houses, but from cuttings of the roots, 

 and, therefore, all these plants with separate sexes must have 

 been produced from one original individual, without the interven- 

 tion of seed, and thus confirm the position advanced in a previous 

 paper of the speaker on " Bird variations," namely, that variations 

 in form, and, by logical inference, new species, may arise without 

 seminal intervention ; and that in this way identical species may 

 appear in separated localities, without the necessity of supposing 

 an emigration from one small point, as Darwinism now does. 



In the specimens of Deutzia gracilis were two forms of flowers 

 on the same plant. Besides the large ones with stamens and pis- 

 tils apparently perfect as generally seen, there were numerous 

 small flowers in which the petals were only partially developed. 

 The filaments were entirely wanting, but the anthers Avere as per- 

 fect, if not larger than in what we should call the perfect flowers. 

 Any one could see that these small flowers were the result of de- 

 ficient nutriment, and would be apt to pass the matter over with 

 this simple reflection; but he wished to emphasize the fact that 

 this defective nutrition rendered the female organs inoperative, 

 while the male organs were still able to exercise their functions ; 

 thus affording another instance, if any more be needed, of the 

 truth of his theory of sex, namely, that with defective nutrition, 

 the female sex is the first to disappear ; and that on\y under the 

 highest conditions of vitality is the female sex formed. 



[May 9, 




NATrRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



In the case of the Bouvardia a similar law -was seen. Tlic most 

 vigorous stems, or, as they would technically be called, woody 

 axes, produced the female flowers. 



Prof. Cope made some observations on a Batrachian of the 

 coal measures, Saiu^opleiira 7'einex, Cope. A specimen more per- 

 fect than the type recentl}' obtained by Prof. Newberry, exhibited 

 posterior limbs such as had been ascribed to the S. pectinata. 

 The vertebrai posterior to this point were perfectly preserved, and 

 supported the remarkable processes to the end. 



He also stated that the Oestocephalus ampjhiuminus was dis- 

 tinct, and was furnished with branchial arches of branchihyal 

 bones, for the support of external gills. 



March 14. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sevent3^-oue members present. 



The publication of the proceedings for September, October, 

 K^ovember, and December, 1870, was announced. 



March 21. 



Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



Prof. Leidy made the following remarks on Tsenia medioca- 

 nellata. Recentl^^, one of our ablest and most respected practi- 

 tioners of medicine submitted to my examination a tapeworm 

 which had been discharged from a young man, after the use of 

 the Aspidium filix-mas. The physician, in giving an account of 

 the case, stated that he had previously treated the patient for 

 another affection, in which raw-beef sandwiches had been pre- 

 scribed for food. After looking at the worm, I remarked that it 

 appeared to be the Tsenia mediocaneUata, a species which I had 

 not before seen, and added that the patient had probably become 

 infected from a larva swallowed with the raw-beef sandwiches. 

 The specimen consisted of the greater part of the worm, broken 

 into several pieces. Including some lost portions, it was estimated 

 to have been upwards of thirty feet in length. Unfortunately, the 

 head proved to be absent ; but, so far as characters could l)e ob- 

 tained from the specimen, in the form of the segments, position 

 of the genital orifices, and the condition of the ovaries, it agreed 

 with the description given of T. mediocanellata, rather than with 



1871.] 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



T. solium. From a, want of acquaintance with the former, I did 

 not feel entirely satisfied that the si^eciraen actually belonged to 

 that species. 



Subsequently, my friend brought to me the anterior part of the 

 bod}^, probably, of the same individual tapeworm. He observed 

 that his patient continuing to complain, he had administered 

 another dose of the male-fern, which was followed by the expul- 

 sion of the portion of the worm now presented. The head of 

 the parasite was included, and it confirmed the view that it per- 

 tained to the Tsenia mediocancUata. 



The case serves as another caution against the use of raw flesh 

 as food. 



The description of the worm, as derived from the specimen, is 

 as follows: — 



The head is white, without pigment-granules, obtusely rounded, 

 unarmed with hooks, and unprovided with a rostellum, but fur- 

 nished with a minute acetabuliform fovea at the summit. The 

 four acetabula are spherical, and opaque white. The diameter of 

 the head is three-fourths of a line. The neck, or uusegmented 

 portion of the bod}' immediately succeeding the head, is about 4 

 lines long by half a line in breadth. The most anterior indis- 

 tinctlj'^ defined segments of the body, and those immediately suc- 

 ceeding them, but more distinctly separated, are about one-fifth 

 of a line long by two-fifths of a line broad. In a more posterior 

 fragment of the body, the flat and nearly square segments mea- 

 sure half a line long and 1 line broad, to one-third line long and 

 2|- lines broad. A succeeding fragment exhibits segments 3^ lines 

 long by 4 lines broad, and 2 lines long b}'' 5 lines broad. Many 

 of the segments in this piece are irregularly separated, lateral]}', 

 b}^ deep, wide notches. In a succeeding long portion of the 

 worm, the segments are wider behind than in front, and measure 

 2, 5, and 3 lines long by 5 lines broad. In a long piece of the 

 posterior part of the worm, the segments are first 4 lines long and 

 broad ; and in the last four feet of the same piece, the segments 

 are clavate in outline, from G to 10 lines long, and 2 and 3 lines 

 broad. 



The genital apertures are conspicuous, and are situated behind 

 the middle of the segments. They alternate irregularl3% Thus, 

 in the last two feet of the posterior fragment of the worm, the 

 first two segments exhibit the aperture on the left margin ; the 

 succeeding segment presents the anomaly of an aperture on both 

 margins ; then follow three apertures on the right, next two on 

 the left, then four on the right, then eight alternating in pairs, 

 then one on the left, and so on. The ovaries are opaque white, 

 and exhibit numerous closely crowded lateral branches. 



In the absence of pigment-granules to the head, and in the less 

 robust character of the worm, the specimen differs from J", ?/lef/^o- 

 canellata as described by Kiichenmeister. The minute acetabular 



[May 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



55 



pit or fovea at the summit of the head is uot mentioned by Kii- 

 chenmeister and subsequent observers as a character of that spe- 

 cies. It is a point, however, that might be readil}^ overlooked, 

 especially if the parts of the head are obscured by'the presence 

 of pigment-granules. 



Fig. 1. 



a. Head and neck magnified. L Form of segments in an anterior fragment of the 

 worm. c. Form of segments in an intermediate fragment of the body. d. Form 

 of segments at the posterior part of the worm. 



Prof. Cope exhibited a number of fishes from the Amazon 

 above the mouth of the Rio Negro, which included some new and 

 rare forms. Some of the latter were Doras brachiafus, Plecostn- 

 mus scoiyularnis^ Roehoides rubrivertex^ Myletes albiscopus, etc. 

 The Plecostomus has the following characters: I). I. 7 ; A. 5 ; L.l. 

 27; head 25, total length; eye 25, interorbital width. Interaper- 

 cular bristles very short, acute. Dorsal fin longer than high ; 

 eight scuta between the first and second dorsals. Length, two 

 feet. Color, light brown, with very numerous closely placed 

 brown spots, those on the head more closelj' placed and often 

 vermiform. Dorsal fin spotted. Long bristles on front and outer 

 surfaces of both pectoral and caudal supporting rays, which are 

 hooked at the end. Caudal marginal radii subequal. No ridge in 

 front of orbit ; a short, prominent supra-occipital crest. 



He exhibited a specimen of Fariodon microps^ Kner, describing 

 the parasitic habits of Stegophilv.s and those ascribed to VandelUa. 

 He thought the structure and coloration of the Fariodon indi- 

 cated similar habits, and that it would be found to be an inhabi- 

 tant, at times at least, of the cavity of the body of some other 

 animal. 



March 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



Mr. Joseph Wharton remarked that a letter, received this day, 

 from Thomas Macfarlane, the discoverer of Silver Islet, in Lake 



1871.] 




56 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Superior, near the north shore, states that, up to March 2, ores 

 to the value of $250,000 had been taken out, and it is confidently 

 believed that this will be increased before the opening of navi- 

 gation to $500,000. A coffer-dam has been built around the 

 islet,, at a cost of $00,000, to increase the area for working. The 

 ore has thus far been sent to the factory of E. Ballach & Son, 

 Newark, N. J., but works are now about to be built at Wyan- 

 dotte, near Detroit, for the treatment of it. Although the islet 

 is in Canada, and the discoverer is a Canadian, it was not found 

 possible to interest Canadians in the venture of opening the 

 vein, and this extremely promising deposit is therefore the pro- 

 perty of citizens of the United States. The ore is worth about 

 $1500 per ton. 



The death of Mr. J. J. Cohen, a correspondent of the Academy, 

 was announced. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : Gustavus A. 

 Nicholls and J. Price Wetherill. 



The following were elected correspondents : John Hauxwell, of 

 Pebas, Equador, and Hon. H. Nevill, of Ce3lon. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — 



[May 0, 1871. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF INVERTEBRATE FOSSILS FROM 

 THE CARBONIFEROUS AND DEVONIAN ROCKS OF OHIO. 



BY F. B. MEEK, 



OF THE Ohio State Geological Survey.' 



The fossils described in this paper are some of the new forms 

 collected during the progress of the Ohio Geological Survey, now 

 being prosecuted under the direction of Prof. J. S. Newberry-, the 

 State Geologist. Illustrations of these and other characteristic 

 fossils from the different formations are in course of preparation, 

 and will be published along with full descriptions of the same in 

 the reports of the Survey. 



ECHINODERMATA. 



DOLATOCRINUS ORNATUS, Meek. 



Body, including the vault, depressed subglobose, the portion 

 below the arm-bases being a little higher than the vault, with 

 nearly vertical sides above, but rounding under below to the 

 somewhat flattened under side ; arm-bases protuberant, mainl}' in 

 consequence of the rather deep furrows or sinuses of the vault 

 over the iuterradial areas ; vault composed of irregular pieces, 

 each of which projects in the form of a little sharply prominent 

 node or short spine, the largest of which are situated around the 

 nearly central ventral tube, and on the elevations between it and 

 the arm-bases. Base small, a little impressed within the shallow 

 concavity of the nnder side, and marked by a distinctly indented 

 column-facet, which occupies near three-fourths of its entire 

 breadth, so that only a narrow ring, as it were, of the basal pieces 

 can be seen when the column is attached. First radial pieces 

 comparatively large, extending out nearly horizontally, or only a 

 little arching upward, and with their inner ends curving slightly 

 into the shallow central concavity ; all wider than long, and 

 hexagonal, with the upper (outer) side of each longer than any 

 of the others. Second radial pieces about half as large as the 



' I am under obligations to Prof. Henry for the use of books, rooms, and 

 other facilities at the Smithsonian Institution, while preparing this paper. 



June 6, 1871.] part i.— 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



first, wider than long, and quadrangular in outline.^ Third 

 radials about as large as the second, from the curved-up edges of 

 which they rise vertically, wider than long, and pentagonal in 

 form ; bearing on each of their superior sloping sides a smaller 

 secondary radial, each of which supports another smaller, more 

 or less cuneiform piece, from which the arms arise ; thus making 

 two arms from each ray, unless the number is increased by bifur- 

 cations after they become free ; arms unknown, but apparently 

 composed, at their origin, of a double series of alternating pieces. 



First interradial pieces, somewhat larger than the first radials, 

 about as wide above the middle as their length, eight or nine 

 sided, with the lower part of eacli curving under to connect witli 

 the first radials, while they curve upward vertically from near or 

 below the middle ; each supporting on the upper side a much 

 smaller hexagonal piece, which rises vertically, and usually bears 

 on its short superior lateral edges two smaller pieces connecting 

 with the secondary radials or first arm-pieces, while its short 

 truncated upper side is not surmounted by any succeeding piece, 

 but connects on its inner surface with the vault. 



Sutures between all the plates channelled. Surface of bodj'- 

 plates ornamented with raised lines or very small radiating costae, 

 that cross the sutures parallel to each other at the sides of the 

 plates, but soon become bent about and connected in various 

 waj^s, so that very few of them extend directly to the middle of 

 any of the plates, the arrangement being such as to produce a 

 kind of vermicular style of ornamentation, especially over all the 

 central part of the plates, like that often seen on the body-plates 

 in AmphoracrinuH. A small rather sharp ridge also extends up 

 the middle of each radial series of plates, more or less interrupted 

 at the sutures, and showing a slight tendency to form a pinched 

 node on the middle of the first and second radials ; while it is 

 sometimes seen to bifurcate on the third radial, to send branches 

 to the secondary radials, but these are generally so small as 

 scarcel}' to be distinguished from the other little ridges ornament- 

 ing all of the body-pieces. 



Ventral tube unknown, but, judging from the spiniferous cha- 



' In one ray of the typical specimen the second radial is abnormally want- 

 ing, while the third is larger than usual. 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



racter of the vault-pieces around its base, probably also spiui- 

 ferous. 



Height of body to arm-bases, 0.47 inch ; do. to top of vault, 

 0.60 inch ; breadth, 0.95 inch. 



This species differs so materially from D. lacus and D. Marshi, 

 of Lyon, in its ornamentation and other characters, as to render 

 a comparison unnecessary. The only other described species from 

 the same horizon, known to me, D. lamellosus (= Cacahocrinus 

 lamellosus, Hall, Fifteenth Report of Regents, p. 141), must also 

 differ materially, as it is described as having tlie body "spreading 

 horizontallj'- to the top of the third radial plates." It also has 

 four arms to each ray, instead of only two, as in our sjiecies, which 

 likewise differs in the details of its ornamentation. 



It is probablj" more nearly allied to some of the other species 

 described by Prof. Hall from the Hamilton Group, under Troost's 

 name Cacaboeriiius, though it seems to differ from them all in 

 details ; while the limited vertical range of the species of Cri- 

 noidea, renders it extremely improbable that the same species 

 would be found in both the Corniferous and Hamilton groups. 



It may be proper to remark here that thei'e is no difference 

 between Dolatocrinus^ Lyon, and Cacahocrinus^ Troost. It is 

 true, Mr, Lyon gives five as the number of basal pieces in his 

 genus, but he also stated in a note that it may have only three 

 basals, as he had not seen specimens showing the structure of the 

 base very clearly. Troost's genus, as published from his manu- 

 script, after the date of Mr. Lyon's publication of Dolatocrinus, 

 agrees exactl}^ with the characters assigned the latter, excepting 

 in having only three instead of five basal pieces. The species 

 here described, however, is certainly a typical Dolatocrinus^ and 

 yet shows only three basal pieces. 



For the use of the fine specimen affording the above characters, 

 the Survey is under obligations to the Rev. Mr. H. Hertzer, of 

 Columbus, Ohio. 



Locality and position. Columbus, Ohio. Corniferous division 

 of the Devonian. 



1871.] 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



AVICULOPECTEN CKENISTEIATUS, Meek. 



Shell thin, attaining a moderatel}'^ large size, plano-convex, "oith 

 a truncato-suhoi'bicular outline ; height and breadth nearly equal : 

 basal margin more or less regularly rounded ; posterior margin 

 rounding from the posterior ear into the base, sometimes a little 

 straightened above ; anterior side rounded so as to make a shorter 

 curve than the other ; hinge less than the breadth of the valves 

 in length, but rather long. 



Left valve moderately convex ; beak rising a little above the 

 hinge margin, nearly or quite central and not oblique ; posterior 

 ear small, with a marginal ridge, flat, without being separated 

 from the swell of the umbo by a sulcus, rather acutely angular 

 at the extremity, and distinctly shorter than the margin below, 

 from which it is separated b}' a nearly rectangular notch ; ante- 

 rior ear larger, or sometimes nearly as long as the margin below, 

 rather acutely angular at the extremity, convex and separated by 

 a rounded impression from the umbo, defined by a rather deep 

 subangular marginal sinus. Surface ornamented by numerous, 

 very slender, radiating costre or raised lines, separated by rather 

 wide flat surfaces, in each of which a still smaller line is some- 

 times intercalated ; crossing all of these are smaller regularly 

 arranged, sharply elevated, concentric lines, that seem to form 

 little projections at the points of crossing, so as to give a rough 

 appearance to the surface ; costae becoming more closely crowded, 

 but not smaller, on the ears. 



Right valve flat or a little concave, and with beak obsolete ; 

 ears flat, and of nearly the same size and forifl as in the other 

 valve, excepting that the anterior one is broader and defined b3' a 

 more shallow and more rounded sinus than appears to exist in 

 the left valve ; surface cancellated by regular, rather closely ar- 

 ranged, radiating and concentric lines, the latter being very 

 sharply elevated, and minutely and regularly waA^ed, crenate, or 

 somewhat vaulted ; radiating costai somewhat larger, and more 

 distant on the ears. 



Height, 2.50 inches; breadth, 2.78 inches; convexitj^ about 

 0.40 inch. 



The specimens of this species are not very well preserved, being 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 61 



mainly casts with some portions of the surface. It is remarkable 

 in having only a comparatively shallow rounded sinus under the 

 anterior ear of the flat right valve, where it is usually deep and 

 angular in species of this genus ; while in the left it is deeper and 

 more angular, though none of the specimens are in a condition 

 to show clearly its exact form. One cast shows a little of the 

 cardinal plate, which is rather coarsely striated longitudinally. 

 None of the specimens of the left valve have the surface well 

 enough preserved to show whether the sharply elevated concen- 

 tric lines or laminae are minutely waved as in the other valve, 

 but they probably are so when the surface has not been worn or 

 exfoliated. 



I am not acquainted with any described species so nearly allied 

 to this as to render a comparison necessary. 



Locality and position. Sciotoville, Ohio. Upper part of the 

 Waverley series of the lower Carboniferous. 



AVICULOPECTEN (STEEBLOPTERIA ?) HERTZERI, Meek. 



Shell usually under medium size, higher than wide, ratlier 

 compressed, the right valve being nearly flat, and the left only 

 moderately convex; subovate in general outline (exclusive of the 

 small ears), with a slight backward obliquity caused by the greater 

 prominence of the anterior margin ; basal outline semicircular and 

 curved regularly into the rather prominently rounded anterior 

 side ; posterior margin less prominent than the anterior, and 

 forming a longer and more gentle curve from the posterior ear 

 into the base. Hinge distinctly shorter than the antero-posterior 

 diameter of the valves ; posterior ear in both valves very small, 

 flattened, very obtusely angular, much sliorter than the margin 

 below, but well defined from the umbo, and only separated from 

 «4he margin below by a faint sinuosity ; anterior ear of each valve 

 distinctly larger than the posterior, though not as prominent 

 as the anterior margin below, rather strongly compressed or 

 flattened so as to be abruptly distinct from the umbo, and 

 defined by a distinct sinus from the margin below, the sinus 

 being deeper and more angular in the right valve ; beaks com- 

 pressed, scarcely projecting above the cardinal margin, and 

 placed a little behind the middle of the hinge, as well as that of 

 the valves. Surface of both valves elegantl^^ ornamented by nu- 

 merous, sometimes sharply elevated, nearly equal, very regularly 

 1871.] 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



arranged radiating and concentric lines, wliicli are larger and 

 more strongly defined in the anterior ear of the right valve, par- 

 ticularly the radiating markings, which there sometimes assume 

 the character of small costaj, while the concentric markings some- 

 times project as little lamellae slightly above the hinge-margin, so 

 as to give it a dented appearance. 



Height of one of the largest specimens seen, 1.32 inches; antero- 

 posterior diameter, 1.20 inches; convexity, about 0.18 inch. 



I know of no other shell in our rocks that is liable to be con- 

 founded with this, its general form and neatly cancellated mark- 

 ings being sufficient to distinguish it. Although I refer it provi- 

 sionally to Amculopecten^ I really do not think it belongs properl}^ 

 to that genus, as restricted to the typical forms. At least it 

 differs from all the characteristic forms o^ Amculopecten^ in having 

 the anterior ear larger than the posterior, as well as in having 

 its beaks placed a little behind the middle of the valves, thus 

 giving the slight backward obliquity mentioned in the descrip- 

 tion. This latter character seems to approximate it to Sfrebloj)- 

 teria of McCoy, but as we know nothing of its hinge and inte- 

 rior, it is not possible to determine whether it belongs to that 

 group. 



The specific name is given in honor of the Rev. H. Hertzer of 

 the Ohio Geological Survey, to whom I am indebted for the use 

 of some fine specimens from his own private collection. 



Locality and position. Newark, Ohio. Lower Coal-measures. 



LUCINA (PAKACYCLAS) OHIOENSIS, Meek. 



Shell apparently not attaining a medium size, compressed, 

 nearly circular ; beaks small, central, depressed nearly to the 

 dorsal line, and contiguous ; anterior margin rather abruptly 

 compressed above, just in front of the beaks; hinge-margin short 

 and rounding into the posterior dorsal outline ; surface orna- 

 mented with small, more or less regular concentric undulations 

 (most strongly defined on the umbones), and A'er^' fine lines of 

 growth; posterior dorsal slope of each valve marked by a strong 

 oblique sulcus, extending from the back part of the beaks to the 

 upper part of the posterior margin. 



Length, 0.46 inch; height, 0.42 inch; convexity, 0.18 inch. 



This species seems to be related to L. lirata (=^Posidoma lirata, 

 Conrad, Ann. Geol. Rept., N. Y., 1838, p. 116; and Thirteenth 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



■Report Regents on State Cab., N. H., pi. ii, fig. 12); but its pecu- 

 liar posterior dorsal sulcus, which gives it so much the appearance 

 of the recent L. Jamaicensis^ is neither represented in Mr. Conrad's 

 figure, nor mentioned in his description of L. lirata. 



The identity of these Devonian shells with the existins: aenus 

 Lucina may admit of some doubt, as their hinges and internal 

 characters are not yet well known. The species under considera- 

 tion, however, has even more exactly the external appearance of 

 that genus than several foreign Devonian forms that are generally 

 referred to it. Perhaps they may all be included under one dis- 

 tinct genus, for which the name Paracyclas, Hall, may have to 

 be retained. 



Locality and position. Dublin, Franklin Co., Ohio. Coraiferous 

 division of the Devonian. 



■PTILODICTYA (STICTOPORA) GILBERTI, Meek. 



Corallum growing in thin, or much compressed, branching (or 

 perhaps sometimes foliaceous) expansions ; branches var3-ing 

 from about half a line to three lines in breadth, with a thickness 

 of near half a line; nonporiferous margins sharp, with strios well 

 defined, and curving laterally and forward. Pores nearly circular, 

 or slightly oval, and provided, in well-preserved specimens, with 

 raised margins ; ranged in about eight to ten longitudinal rows 

 in a branch two and a half lines in breadth, those in adjacent rows 

 regularly alternating so as to produce a quincuncial arrangement; 

 five of them occupy a space of one line, measuring longitudinally, 

 and about six measuring obliquely, the spaces between the pores 

 in the longitudinal direction being usually a little greater than 

 the diameter of the pores themselves ; rows of pores separated by 

 a slender, sharply raised longitudinal line. Axis forming about 

 one-third of the thickness of the branches, and having the trans- 

 verse strife sometimes very regular, well defined, and regularly 

 arched. 



I have not seen enough of any one specimen of this species to 

 show whether or not its branches anastomose, but as they evi- 

 dently frequently bifurcate, and send oflf lateral branchlets, it is 

 probable that they do. It seems to be more nearly allied to 

 Stictopora fenestrata, of Hall, from tht Chazy limestone, in the 



' This description was accidentally inserted iu this place. 

 1871.] 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



arrangement and nearly circular form of its pores, as well as in 

 having a raised longitudinal line between each row of pores, than 

 to any of the known Upper Silurian species. It is a much more 

 robust species, however, with only about the same number of rows 

 of pores, in a branch of twice the breadth of those of that species, 

 while it shows no traces of the transverse bars mentioned in the 

 description of S. fenestrata. Its flattened, nonporiferous, and 

 striated margins are also much more strongly developed. Indeed, 

 no traces of this character of the margins are represented in the 

 published figures or mentioned in the description of that species. 



Although I am not aware that any published notice of the 

 occurrence of this genus in the Devonian rocks has hitherto ap- 

 peared, I have little hesitation in referring this species to the 

 group, since it seems to present all the characteristics assigned to 

 the same. In one respect it differs from some of the species de- 

 scribed under Stictoj)ora. That is, in having the pores a little con- 

 tracted, and nearly circular at the aperture. In this respect, 

 however, it appears to agree with S. fenestrata, the. first species 

 described under that genus ; and Prof. McCoy has shown that this 

 character occurs in British species of Ptilodictya, of Lonsdale, of 

 which it is now generally admitted that Stictopora, Hall, is only 

 a sjnionym, or at most founded on types only subgenerically 

 distinct. 



From the same horizon as that from which the above-described 

 species was obtained, but from a different locality (Whitehouse, 

 Lucas Co.), there is in the collection a foliated specimen more than 

 two inches in breadth, and 4.10 inches long, with broken margins 

 all around. It is split in breaking the rock, so as to expose one 

 side of the strongly wrinkled and striated axis. So far as I have 

 been able to determine from some imperfect remaining portions 

 of the poriferous part, its pores would seem to have the same 

 form, size, and arrangement as the species here described. It 

 may, therefore, possibly belong to the same species, though I am 

 inclined to believe it will be found to be distinct. If so, it may 

 be called P. {Stictopora) lichenoides. 



Locality and jwsition. Sylvania, Lucas Co., and Marblehead. 

 Corniferous limestone. Mr. Gilbert. 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G5 



CONOCARDIUM OHIOENSE, Meek. 



Shell rather small, longitudinally subovate or sulitrigonal, 

 being widest and most convex anteriorly ,i where the valves are 

 rather distinctly ventricose ; posterior side produced and abruptly 

 contracted behind the gibbous anterior region, partl}^ from lateral 

 compression, and partly from the upward and backward slope of 

 the posterior basal margin, which is slightly sinuous near tlie ex- 

 tremity, and distinctly gaping, the widest part of the hiatus being 

 above ; hinge-line straight, or sometimes slightly declining at the 

 posterior extremity; cardinal margins of the valves aiichylosed; 

 anterior side short, though not properly truncated, abruptl^^ con- 

 tracted and a little impressed in front of the umbonal convexity, 

 and apparently provided with a slender projection above (this 

 part broken in the specimens) ; beaks projecting a little above the 

 cardinal margin, placed in advance of the middle and incurved; 

 umbonal slopes gibbous, broadly rounded, and, like the beaks, 

 slightly inclined backward. Surface (as seen in specimens ap- 

 parently a little exfoliated) ornamented by simple, somewhat 

 flattened, radiating costse, about five or six of which, on the gib- 

 bous part of each valve, are separated by flattened furrows 

 nearly or quite as wide as the costaj themselves ; while on the 

 posterior contracted portion, the costse are proportionally wider, 

 and separated bj'" merely sharply impressed hair-lines, excepting 

 near the posterior cardinal margin, where these im})ressed linear 

 furrows are represented by little raised lines ; costae on the ante- 

 rior surface more obscure ; fine regular lines, and a few stronger 

 marks of growth, are also seen crossing the costse parallel to the 

 free margins. 



Length of a specimen with the anterior attenuated appendage 

 broken away, 0.64 inch ; height, 0.43 inch ; convexity, 0.37 inch. 



This species belongs to the section of the genus that has the 

 umbonal slopes rounded instead of angular, and the anterior 

 side in front of these slopes not so distinctly truncated or flat- 

 tened as to impart the peculiar Hemicardium-like appearance so 

 often seen in the genus. These characters at once distinguish it 

 from its associate, G. trigonale, Hall, sp. ; which is also distin- 



' I merely follow the most general adopted method of describing the 

 gaping end as the posterior, without being entirely satisfied that this is the 

 correct view. 

 1871.] 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



guislied hy its remarkable alation extending forward from the 

 angular umbonal slopes. 



I have seen no specimens of our shell quite entire at the ante- 

 rior end, but it is evident that there was a slender projection 

 somewhat like that of C. aliforme of Sowerby, though it may 

 not have been so long as in that species. 



Locality and ^josition. Columbus, Ohio. Corniferous division 

 of the Devonian. 



SOLENOMYA (JANEIA) VETUSTA, Meek. 



Shell of medium size, transversely sub-oblong or narrow sub- 

 elliptic, the length being a little less than twice and a half the 

 height ; valves rather convex ; anterior or longer side regularly 

 rounded ; posterior extremity more narrowly rounded ; basal 

 margin nearly or quite straight along the central region, but 

 rounding np at the extremities, the curve being more gradual 

 behind ; beaks depressed to a level with the dorsal margin, and 

 placed somewhat behind the middle; dorsal margin a little con- 

 vex and nearly horizontal in front of the beaks, but rounding 

 regularly into the anterior outline, and behind the beaks, slighth* 

 depresscd below the horizon of the latter, though without sloping- 

 much posteriorly. Surface apparently smooth ; interior showing 

 distinct radiating strise below the middle of the valves, excepting 

 near the extremities. Posterior muscular impression rather nar- 

 row, suboval, oblique, placed near the margin, and well defined 

 by a slight oblique ridge along its antero-inferior margin ; anterior 

 do. larger and faintly marked. 



Length, 1.22 inches; height, 0.50 inch; convexity, about 0.32 

 inch. 



This is another tj'pe very nnexpectedly found among the Cor- 

 niferous siDeciraens. So far as I am aware, no example of this 

 group has ever before been obtained from an^^ horizon below the 

 mountain limestone. Whether we regard the Carboniferous and 

 Permian forms usuall}^ referred to Solenomya, as really belonging 

 to that genus, or as constituting a distinct group (for which Prof. 

 King proposed the name Janeia), there can be no question what- 

 ever, that the shell here described belongs to the genus that in- 

 cludes these Carboniferous and Permian species. Specifically, it is 

 perhaps more nearly related to S. biarmica of the European Per- 

 mian rocks, than it is to S. Puzosiana, de Kon., or to P. primaeva, 



[June 6, 

 / 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



Phillips, from the Carboniferous. Indeed it might even be referred 

 to S. biarmica, with more propriety' than a Kansas Coal-measure 

 species that has been so referred by Prof Geinitz. Compared 

 with the figures of the original Russian example of S. biarmica, 

 figured in the Palaeont. of Russia and the Ural Mountains, pi. xix. 

 fig. 4 a and 4 6, our shell is seen to be proportionally somewhat 

 more depressed and longer, with the beaks a little less prominent, 

 and farther removed from the shorter or posterior extremity. 

 Its posterior dorsal slope, even in the internal cast, is also less 

 oblique. In this latter character it is even less like the Eno-Ush 

 and German Permian forms referred to S. biarmica. 



I have elsewhere (Proceed. Acad. Xat. Sci., April, 1810, p. 44) 

 expressed the opinion that these Palaeozoic shells usually re- 

 ferred to Solenomya, may yet have to be separated from that genus, 

 and ranged under Prof. King's name Janeia, notwithstanding the 

 fact that he subsequently abandoned his genus, under the impres- 

 sion that it is not distinct from Solenomya. I still think it proba- 

 ble that this may have to be done. 



Locality and jjosiiion. Dublin, Franklin Co., Ohio. Cornife- 

 rous group, of the Devonian. 



CLINOPISTHA ANTIQTJA, Meek. 



Shell very thin, transversely suboval, gibbous, with flanks along 

 the middle near the lower margin, somewhat flattened or slightly 

 concave; more than half as high as long. Anterior or longer 

 side regularly rounded in outline ; posterior sloping above from 

 the beaks to the narrowly rounded extremity, which is most 

 prominent below the middle; basal margin straightened or broadly 

 sinuous along the central region, and rather abruptly rounded up 

 at the extremities ; beaks depressed nearly or quite to the dorsal 

 outline, and placed about half-way between the middle and pos- 

 terior extremity ; dorsal outline nearly horizontal and parallel to 

 the base, in front of the beaks, but rounding regularly into the 

 anterior margin. Surface merely showing moderately distinct 

 lines of growth, with some obscure traces of radiating striae when 

 a little worn near the base; these last-mentioned markings being 

 more distinct on the internal cast. 



Length, 0.82 inch; height, 0.51 inch; convexity, 0.39 inch. 



I have been much surprised, to find among the collections from 

 the Corniferous limestone, a shell agreeing so exactly as this in all 

 18T1.] 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



its known characters, not evidently merely specific, with the type 

 of the genus Clinopistha, which I had previously supposed to be 

 confined to the Coal-measures. It has the same short gibbous 

 form, thinness of substance, posterior position of the beaks and 

 ligament, surface markings, and even the same obscure interiial 

 radiating striae. Indeed, if it were not for its rather more nar- 

 rowly rounded, and more protuberant, instead of slightly trun- 

 cated, posterior or shorter end, somewhat less gibbous beaks, and 

 faintly sinuous base and flanks, it would scarcely be possible to 

 distinguish it from the Coal-measure form by any external cha- 

 racter, excepting the white chalky texture of the shell merely due 

 to its state of preservation. The valves are a little displaced in 

 the only good specimen I have seen, but the beaks certainly give 

 some evidence of being slightly unequal, that is, of the left one 

 lapping slightly upon the other, as in the typical species from the 

 Coal-measures. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



SANGUINOLITES ? SANDUSKYENSIS, Meek. 



Sliell approaching a longitudinal-oblong or trapezoidal outline, 

 moderately convex, a little more than twice as wi<le as high, and 

 slightly narrower anteriorly than behind ; cardinal margin straiglit, 

 equalling about three-fifths the entire length ; basal margin nearly 

 straight and subparallel to the hinge, or slightly ascending ante- 

 riorly ahnig its entire length, and rounding up a little more 

 graduall}^ into the front than behind ;• posterior extremity com- 

 pressed, obliquely truncated above, and rather narrowly rounded 

 to the base below ; anterior end very short, sloping from the 

 beaks above, and rather narrowly rounded at the middle ; beaks 

 depressed nearly or quite to the hinge-line, compressed, and 

 placed near the middle of the anterior third ; posterior umbonal 

 slopes not angular, or even prominently rounded. Surface only 

 showing a few irregular furrows and slight undulations of growth, 

 most distinct below the middle of the valves. 



Length, 2.t0 inches ; height at the posterior end of the hinge, 

 1.20 inches; do. under the unibones, 1.04 inches; convexity, about 

 0.52 inch. 



I know nothing of the hinge of this shell, and merely refer it to 

 the genus SanguinoUtes provisionally. Indeed, until palceonto- 

 losists can aorree in regard to which one of the several shells that 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. G9 



were originally referred to that genus is to be regarded as the 

 typical form of the same, and something can be known in regard 

 to the hinge and internal characters of those shells, it seems to 

 me almost impossible to determine what Sanguinolites is. I do 

 not agree with those, however, who would make AUoinsma of 

 King a synonym of Prof. McCoy's genus, though some of the 

 species included by him may belong to AUorisma. 

 Locality and position. Same as foregoing. 



SANGUINOLITES ? OBLIQTJTJS, Meek. 



Shell SO depressed and elongated as to be nearly three times as 

 long as high, rather distinctly convex, particularly along the 

 posterior umbonal slopes, which are more or less angular from 

 the beaks nearly to the posterior basal extremity ; pallial margin 

 very flearly straight along most of its length ; anterior end ex- 

 tremely short, and a little sinuous on the upper side just in front 

 of the beaks, the sinuosity being caused bj- a ver}^ small deep 

 lunule, at the lower end of which the margin is a little projecting 

 and subangular in outline, and from this little iDrojection curves 

 obliquely backward into the base ; cardinal margin extending 

 back about three-fourths the length of the valves, and inflected so 

 as to form a well-defined, lanceolate escutcheon along its entire 

 length ; posterior side narrowed with a long slope above from the 

 end of the hinge to the extremity-, which is a little gaping and very 

 narrowly rounded or almost angular below ; beaks strongly de- 

 pressed, very oblique, compressed below the ridges, \Qvy nearly 

 terminal, and with the immediate points incurved over the little 

 lunule. Surface showing only lines and furrows of growth, with 

 occasional small, obscure, concentric wrinkles, that are not regu- 

 larly arranged. 



Length, 2.13 inches; height, O.tT inch; convexity, O.tO inch. 



This species seems to be nearly related to a form from the same 

 rock at Medina, Ohio, specimens of which were loaned hy Dr. 

 Newberry to Prof. Hall, some time back, and returaed with the 

 name Sanguinolites eeolus attached. A careful comparison, how. 

 ever, of good specimens of each, shows them to be clearly distinct; 

 the form under consideration being much more convex along tiie 

 umbonal slopes, which are also more angular. Its beaks likewise 

 differ in being decidedly more nearly terminal, and the inflection 

 of its cardinal margin wider. The specimens of S. seohis also 

 1871.] 




TO PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



show faint traces of two or three very obscure longitudinal ridges 

 above the umbonal angle of each valve, and impressions in casts, 

 of a slight ridge behind the anterior muscular impression, that are 

 not seen in our shell. 



From the little that is now known of the shell that will pro- 

 bably have to be regarded as the type of the genus Sanguinolites, 

 it is impossible to determine whether or not such shells as this 

 can be properly referred to that genus. They seem to agree, how- 

 ever, more nearly with the same than they do with the typical 

 forms of AUorisma, to which they are also related. 



Locality and position. Rushville, and Newark, Ohio. Upper 

 part of the Waverley group, of the lower Carboniferous. 



ALLORISMA (SEDGWICKIA?) PLEUROPISTHA, Meek. 



Shell depressed and elongated, or more than twice as long- 

 as high, moderately convex centrally and anteriorly, and alate 

 and produced behind ; pallial margin long, nearly straight along 

 the middle, rounded up anteriorly and ascending more gradually 

 behind ; posterior side very narrow, truncated and somewhat 

 gaping at the extremity, which intersects the cardinal margin at 

 an obtuse angle, and rounds abruptly into the base ; anterior side 

 wider (higher) than the other, and more or less abruptly rounded. 

 Dorsal margin depressed below the horizon of the beaks behind 

 the latter, where it is concave or nearly straight in outline, and 

 inflected so as to form a short corselet near the beaks ; while in 

 front of them it slopes forward rather abruptly, and is provided 

 with a well-defined oval lunule. Beaks moderately prominent, 

 rather gibbous, and incurved without any obliquity or fissure; 

 placed a little less than one-third the length of the valves from 

 the anterior margin. Posterior umbonal slopes subangular, the 

 ridge extending toward the posterior basal extremity, but becom- 

 ing obsolete before reaching it ; while above this ridge the poste- 

 rior dorsal region is flattened or a little concave and smooth. 



Surface oi*nated with more or less defined concentric wrinkles 

 and lines of growth, which are crossed on the posterior portions 

 by linear but distinct raised radiating costse, separated by wider 

 depressions. Of these costa?, the anterior ones descend almost 

 verticall}^ from the beaks to the base ; while farther back they 

 gradually become more oblique, and near the middle of the flanks 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



more closely arranged, but above and behind this they become 

 more widely separated again, and nearly as oblique as the obscure 

 umbonal ridge, above which they are not defined. 



Length, 2.28 inches; height, 1 inch; convexity, about 0.85 inch 



This shell strongly reminds one, by its general outline and 

 physiognomy, of those Jurassic species for which Prof. Ao-assiz 

 proposed the genus Cercomya. In that group, however, tireVe is 

 no lunule, and I am not aware that any of the species of the same 

 are marked by radiating costaj as in the species under considera- 

 tion. From all that is known of its characters, I am inclined to 

 believe it more nearly allied to the curious Lyonsia-like Carbo- 

 niferous shells, upon which Prof McCoy originally proposed to 

 found the genus Sedgivickia, but which he afterwards referred to 

 the genus Leptodomus. Still, it differs from the group Sedgickkia 

 also, in the possession of radiating cost®. These are not mere 

 rows of granules, such as doubtless existed on nearly all the dif- 

 ferent types of this family {Anatinidse), but decided costc^, such 

 as we see in Fholadomya, and, what is rather singular, they do 

 not exist on the anterior part of the valves, but extend only as 

 far forward as the beaks, under which they end abruptly, the 

 anterior one being as strongly defined as any of the others,\vhile 

 only the concentric stria? and wrinkles exist on the anterior third 

 of the valves. In the possession of the radiating costte mentioned, 

 as well as in the shortness of its hinge and the inflection of its' 

 cardinal margin, and in its general physiognomy, it differs from 

 the typical species of AUorisma, and hence it may be thought 

 desirable to establish a subgenus for its reception, in which case 

 I would propose for the group the name Cer corny opsis. 



Along with the typical specimen of the foregoing species, another 

 was found, with the same form and surface characters, excepting 

 that the anterior end in front of the beaks is shorter, and more 

 angular at the lower end of the lunule ; while the anterior of its 

 radiating costs? are directed much more obliquely backward, in- 

 stead of descending vertically from the beaks to the base. This 

 specimen has tlie posterior end broken away, but as the peculiarities 

 mentioned seem not due to any distortion, I am much inclined to 

 believe it belongs to another species, for which AUorisma (Sedg- 

 wickia ?) obliqua would be a good name. 



Locality and position. Rushville, Ohio. Waverley group of 

 Lower Carboniferous. Prof Andrews' collection. 

 18TL] 




Y2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



GRAMMYSIA'? RHOMBOIDES, Meek. 



Shell attaining a nioderatel}' large size, not very convex, the 

 greatest convexity a little before and above the middle ; valves 

 witliout an oblique mesial ridge or fold ; rhombic suboval in out- 

 line, with height equalling about three-fourths the length, closed 

 or nearly so all around ; basal margin most prominent just behind 

 the middle, from near which it ascends with a nearly straight out- 

 line obliquely forward, and more abruptly with a convex outline 

 behind ; anterior side truncated obliquely forward from the beaks 

 above, and ver}^ narrowdy rounded near the middle ; posterior side 

 less narrowly rounded at the middle, with its npper edge probabl}^ 

 sometimes obliquely truncated ; cardinal margin equalling about 

 one-third the length of the valves, and inflected so as to form a well- 

 defined escutcheon that narrows backward fi'om the beaks ; lunule 

 rather deep, well defined, lance-ovate in form, and as long as the 

 truncated anterior dorsal slope; beaks moderately prominent, 

 not very gibbous or very strongly incurved, and situated a little 

 nearer the middle than the anterior margin ; posterior umbonal 

 slopes forming a very obscure rounded ridge, between which and 

 the dorsal and posterior dorsal margins there is a rather narrow, 

 slightly concave, or flattened space on each valve. Surface with 

 only small marks or lines of growth, which are gathered into ver}'- 

 small obscure wrinkles along the margins of the lunule. 



Length, 2.90 inches ; height, measuring verticallj^ from the 

 most prominent part of the beaks to the horizon of the tops of 

 the beaks, 2.15 inches; do. to cardinal margin behind the beaks, 

 1.93 inches ; convexity, 1.40 inches. 



I only know this shell from casts, which show neither the nature 

 of the hinge nor the muscular or pallial impressions. It presents 

 no traces of the characteristic oblique mesial fold or ridge, seen 

 in the typical forms of Grammysia^ and might, when its cardi- 

 nal margin and lunule are concealed in the matrix, be mistaken 

 for a large Schizodus. Its well-defined lunule and escutcheon, 

 however, and obsolete muscular impressions, show that it cannot 

 be even nearly related to that group. As the casts show no indi- 

 cations of the characteristic internal cartilage process of Eclmon- 

 dia, and it does not seem to have the habit of Cardiomorpha, I 

 know of no genus to which it appears to be more nearly related 

 than to Grammysia, and have concluded to place it provisionally 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 73 



in that group until its relations can be more precisely determined 

 from the study of better specimens. 

 Locality and position. Same as last. 



GRAMMYSIA VENTRICOSA, Meek. 

 Shell attaining a moderate size, extremely ventricose, the con- 

 vexity being greater than the height, with the greatest gibbosity 

 a httle in front of and above the middle ; height equalling about 

 half the length ; posterior side comparatively long, a little crapin-. 

 and narrowly rounded in outline, at or a little above the middle"' 

 palhal margin usually a little sinuous near the middle or in front 

 of It; anterior side very short, concave just under the beaks to 

 the base of the lunule, where the margin is subangular or very 

 abruptly rounded and most prominent, while below this it rounds 

 obliquely backward into the base ; cardinal margins scarcely 

 more than equalling half the entire length of the valves and in- 

 flected so as to form a kind of shallow escutcheon; beaks very 

 gibbous, moderately elevated, oblique, strongly incurved, and 

 placed almost over the anterior margin ; lunule deep, ovate or 

 obovate, and well defined; posterior umbonal slopes prominently 

 rounded ; flanks without any oblique ridge or sulcus. Surface 

 marked on the anterior side of the valves near the lunule by small 

 wrinkles, which pass into mere lines and linear furrows of growth 

 farther back, while even the latter become nearly or quite obsolete 

 over the more gibbous parts of the valve. 



Length of largest specimen seen, 2.50 inches; height, 1.30 

 inches; convexity, 1.55 inches. 



I know nothing of the hinge or muscular and pallial impres- 

 sions of this shell, and refer it to Grammysia from its form and 

 general appearance. It shows no traces of the oblique ridge and 

 furrows seen on the typical species of that genus, but it Is well 

 known that this character is not constant in the group. 



Locality and position. Same as foreo-oino-, 



GASTEROPODA. 



PLATYCERAS MULTISPINOSTJM, Meek. 



Shell attaining a large size, comparatively thin, depressed sub- 

 ovate, and very oblique ; apex free, stout, obliquely coiled so as 



1871.J PART I. — 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



to make about one turn, beyond which the body part expands 

 very rapidly to the aperture, making less than half of another 

 volution ; aperture proportionally very large, and nearly circular; 

 lip not sinuous or undulated, but sometimes slightly, and broadly 

 retreating behind ; surface without plications or costfB, but thickly 

 covered by numerous slender, tubular spines, which leave small, 

 depressed, smooth, undefined tubercles on the internal cast. 



Length, measuring direct from the most prominent part of the 

 spire to the anterior margin of the aperture, 3.33 inches ; height, 

 to the most elevated part of the dorsal surface, when the shell is 

 placed with its aperture downward, 1.44 inches; length and 

 breadth of aperture, each about 2.90 inches. 



This fine species differs from P. dumosxim^ Conrad, not onl}^ in 

 its much larger size, more oblique, depressed, and more rapidly 

 expanding form, but in having more numerous spines. The largest 

 specimens of that species are said to have more than one hundred 

 spines, while that under consideration must have had more than 

 two hundred. It likewise differs in not having its lip waved or 

 undulated as in Mr. Conrad's species. 



It is probably more nearl}^ related to P. echinatum, Hall, from 

 the Hamilton group. No figures of that species have yet been 

 published, but judging fi'om the description, our shell is not only 

 very much larger (that species being described as from one inch 

 to one and a quarter inch in length, with an aperture one inch 

 in diameter), but wants the sinuous peristome mentioned in the 

 description of P. echinatum. The term " strong nodes" would 

 also not apply to the numerous small obscure elevations marking 

 the positions of the spines on internal casts of our species. 



None of our specimens show the entire length of the spines, 

 but judging from the fact that their broken ends, at a distance of 

 0.42 inch from their bases, only measure 0.08 inch in diameter, 

 they would seem to have been probably shorter and more slender, 

 as well as much more numerous, than those of P. dumosum. Al- 

 though these spines are as completely tubular as those of the 

 genus Productus, their internal cavitj^ does not seem to have 

 communicated with the interior of the shell, with probably the 

 exception of those near the lip ; for if that had been the case, the 

 smoothly rounded obscure tubercles seen on the internal cast 

 would have shown the broken bases of the casts of the internal 

 cavities of the spines. 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. -^5 



Locality and i^osition. Columbus, Ohio. Coriiiferous <rroup 

 of Devonian series. '^ 



PLATYCERAS ATTENUATUM, Meek. 

 Shell attaining a moderate size, very slender and elongated. 

 Body part more or less arched above, a little compressed behind,' 

 subangular on the right side, rounded over the dorsal or anterior 

 slope, and gradually tapering backward to the small free apex, 

 which is composed of one to one and a half contiguous volutions,' 

 and twisted to the right of the longitudinal axis of the free bod3^ 

 Aperture irregularly oval or suborbicular, and comparatively 

 small or little expanded ; lip most produced on the right anterior 

 side, and sometimes a little retreating behind, with one or two 

 other faint, smaller undulations of its margin around the front. 

 Surface of cast without longitudinal plications, folds, or undula- 

 tions, but showing over the dorsal and anterior slope numerous 

 small tubercles that evidently mark the positions of spines on the 

 exterior. Surface markings of the shell itself unknown. 



Length of the largest specimen, measuring direct from most 

 prominent part at the curve of the spire to that of the anterior 

 margin of the aperture, 2.10 inches; do. measuring from the apex 

 over the dorsal curve to the same, about 3.70; greatest breadth 

 of aperture, 1.35 inches. 



This shell seems to differ from all of the described spiniferous 

 species with which I am acquainted, in being more slender, more 

 elongated, and in having the small apex twisted nearly at right 

 angles to the axis of the body part. These characters appeaAo 

 distinguish it readily from the typical P. dumosum, Conrad ; while 

 from the variety of that species that has been described under the 

 name rarisjnnum^ it differs in never having its body even "mode- 

 rately ventricose," nor in any case in contact with the apical 

 coils, as well as in having more numerous spines, if we can judge 

 from the number of tubercles, of which about fifty may be counted 

 on the specimen from which the foregoing description was made 

 out. 



In general form it resembles the more slender individuals of the 

 non-spiniferous species P. rejiexum, from the Oriskany sandstone, 



' I describe such forms, for convenience, as if placed with the aperture 

 downward and the apex directed backward toward the observer. 

 1871.] 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



but its body part is much straighter, while it is never so large 

 and ventricose as in some varieties of that species. 



Locality and position. Columbus, Ohio. Corniferous group. 



NATICOPSIS LEVIS, Meek. 



Shell apparentl}^ attaining a medium size, subovate in general 

 form, at maturity, but pi-oportionally shorter in the young; 

 spire moderately prominent ; volutions four to four and a half, 

 convex, increasing rather rapidly in size ; last one large, or form- 

 ing near nine-tenths of the entire bulk of the shell, rounded on the 

 sides, and a little extended below; suture well defined; ajierture 

 ovate, being regularly rounded below, and more or less angular 

 above; columella arcuate, and distinctly flattened, or a little 

 concave below the nou-perforate umbilical region, above which the 

 inner lip is thickened. Surface only showing obscure lines of 

 growth. 



Length of the largest specimens seen, 0.60 inch ; breadth, 0.48 

 inch ; height of aperture, 0.38 inch ; breadth of do., 0.2*7 inch. 



So far as I am at present informed, this is the first Devonian 

 species, beyond doubt known to belong to this genus, that has yet 

 been described in this country; though it is certainly represented 

 in rocks of that age in Europe.' Our species is even more closely 

 allied to the typical Carboniferous forms of the genus, than it is 

 to the European Devonian species, such as Naticopsis subcostata 

 and N. margaritifera { = Natica subcostata and N. margaritifera, 

 d'Archic and de Verneuil). 



It is an interesting fact that the above-mentioned European 

 Devonian species represent both of the subgenera found in our 

 Coal-measures, the first belonging to the subgenus Trachydomia, 

 and the other to the typical section of the genus. 



Locality and position. Dublin, Franklin County, Ohio. Cor- 

 niferous group of the Devonian. 



NATICOPSIS (PLATYOSTOMA'?) ^QUISTKIATA, Meek. 

 Shell subglobose ; spire much depressed ; volutions four, in- 



' It is probable that several of the so-called Naticas of the European 

 Silurian rocks also belong to this genus, as may be the case with some of 

 the Americau Silurian species referred to Holopea, and other genera, from 

 •the study of mere casts. 



[June 6 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. ' YY 



creasing rapidly in size, those of the spire convex, last one lar<re 

 and ventricose; suture well defined; aperture ovate; outer iTp 

 thin, extended forward and very oblique above, and broadly re- 

 treating or sinuous below the middle; columella narrow arcuate, 

 imperforate, and showing some appearance of being a little furrowed 

 below, as if for the reception of the edge of an operculum; inner 

 hp apparently not thickened above. Surface ornamented by fine, 

 very regularly and closely arranged strh-e of growth, which pass 

 very obliquely backward and downward on the upper and outer 

 side of the body volution, and then curve gracefully forward again 

 below, so as to conform to the broad sinuosity of the outer lip. 

 Height, 0.17 inch; breadth, 0.18 inch. 



This little shell will be at once distinguished from the young of 

 the last, of corresponding size, with which it agrees very nearly 

 in form, by its beautiful, very regular, well-defined, and gracefully 

 curved strife, as well as by its narrower columella, and thin inner 

 lip. The latter characters lead me to doubt whether it is not 

 more properly a Platyostoma. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



BEILEEOPHON NEWBERRYI, Meek. 

 Shell scarcely attaining a medium size, subglobose in form; 

 volutions rounded, all hidden by the last one, the umbilicus being 

 closed on each side ; last turn expanded at the aperture, which is 

 rather large, transversely lunate or subreniform, being nearly 

 twice as wide transversely as the antero-posterior diameter ; lip 

 moderately sinuous in front, and rounded in outline on each side, 

 very thin excepting in the umbilical regions, between which it is 

 thinly spread a little over that part of the return of the spire in- 

 denting the inner or posterior side of the aperture. Dorsal band 

 rather narrow, not usually elevated above the surface of the 

 rounded dorsum, and merely defined by a slight furrow along each 

 side.* Surface ornamented by distinct, very regularly disposed 

 little transverse costge, or coarse raised lines, most strongly de- 

 fined on the dorsal side, where they curve a little backward near 

 the band, and more abruptly in crossing the latter ; while they be- 

 come finer, more curved, and directed backward in approaching the 



1 In one of the smaller specimens, the band is a little raised so as to form 

 a slight ridge. 



1871.] 




78 • PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



umbilical region on each side, and diminish to mere fine lines of 

 growth on the expanded part of the body volution near the aper- 

 ture. Traces of much finer longitudinal, or revolving lines are also 

 seen on well-preserved specimens. 



Greatest autero-posterior diameter of a moderate-sized specimen, 

 0.70 inch; transverse diameter of aperture, 0.72 inch. 



In its surface markings, this species seems to agree with B. 

 patulus, Hall, from which it differs materially in having its aperture 

 very much less expanded, and not overlapping the volutions pos- 

 teriorly : as well as in not having its axis umbilicate. It is much 

 more nearly like B. hiulcus, Sowerby, as illustrated by de Koniuck 

 (Ann. Foss. Carb. Belg,, pi. xxvii, fig. 4, a, b, c), but in addition 

 to being much smaller, its aperture is less transverse, and not near 

 so deeply sinuate posteriorly by the inner volutions ; while its lip 

 is very much less spread over the latter behind. It likewise 

 differs in the possession of fine obscure revolving striae. 



The specific name is given in honor of Prof. J. S. Newberry, the 

 State geologist of Ohio. 



Locality and ijosition. Dublin, Franklin Co., Ohio. Coruiferous 

 group of the Devonian. 



BELLEROPHON PROPINQUUS, Meek. 



This species agrees so nearly with the last in form and size, that 

 it may be suflSciently characterized by pointing out the few char- 

 acters in which it differs. In the first place, its transverse lines are 

 distinctly finer, more crowded, and less regularly arranged ; while 

 it has a small umbilical perforation not entirely closed by the 

 thickened lip on each side, as we see in that species. Again, its 

 dorsal band is always distinctly elevated, very narrow, and fur- 

 rowed along the middle, so as to present a biangular appearance, 

 while the transverse lines bend back more strongly in approach- 

 ing this band than in B. Newberryi, and do not impart the cre- 

 nated or subimbricated appearance in crossing the band, seen on 

 this part of that species. It is likewise destitute of the very fine 

 obscure revolving strife of B. Newberryi, and seems to have its 

 aperture somewhat less expanded, though the specimens are 

 scarcely in a condition to show the expansion of the aperture 

 satisfactorily. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



CYCLONEMA CRENULATA, Meek. 



Shell turbinate, subtrocliiform, thin ; spire depressed conical ; 

 volutions four, increasing rather rapidly in size, those of the spire 

 convex but not rounded; last one large, convex on the upper slope 

 to the peripher}^, which is rather narrowlj^ rounded; suture well 

 defined between the upper volutions, and somewhat canaliculate 

 farther down; aperture ovate. Surface ornamented by sharply 

 elevated revolving lines or small ridges, which are beautifully and 

 minutely crenate by the crossing of the fine, very oblique lines of 

 growth ; of these revolving lines from sixteen to eighteen may be 

 counted on the body volution, and six on the next above, while 

 those farther up appear to be quite smooth. 



Length, 0.34 inch ; breadth, 0.32 inch. 



This species seems to be related to G. midtUira, Hall (Fifteenth 

 Report of Regents, p. 48, pi. 5, fig. It), but has a more depressed 

 form, with the volutions of its spire merelj'^ convex instead of 

 rounded, and its body volution narrowly instead of regularly 

 rounded. It also has more revolving lines, which likewise show 

 a delicate crenate character not represented in the figure nor 

 mentioned in the description of C. muUilira. 



In general appearance our shell more nearly resembles Mr. 

 Conrad's original figure of his C. bilix (Journ. Acad., N. S. VII, 

 pi. xvi, fig. 10), but it is less oblique, with more coua'cx volutions, 

 and more numerous revolving lines. 



Locality and position. Same as last. 



ISONEMA HTIMILIS, Meek. 



Shell large and robust, depressed subturbinate, about one- 

 fourth to near one-third wider than high ; spire much depressed : 

 volutions four, increasing rather rapidly in size, the exposed part 

 of those of the spire gently conA'ex ; last one large and regularly 

 rounded, or sometimes very obtusely subangular around the middle 

 of the outer side ; suture well defined, without being properly 

 channelled ; aperture circular a little within, but more or less an- 

 gular above at the immediate edge of the lip, where it is more 

 oval in outline ; outer lip thin, and, in mature specimens, slightly 

 dilated ; inner lip thickened, very distinctly flattened, and slightly 

 spread over the imperforate umbilical region, as well as a little 

 thickened near the top of the aperture. Surface ornamented 

 1871.] 




80 PROCKEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



with oblique, slightly archcnl lines of growth, which, on the first 

 and second turns of the spire, are rather coarse, well defined, and 

 present the characteristic regularity of size and arrangement, but 

 soon become, on the succeeding turns, much finer and more 

 crowded, as well as occasionally interrupted by irregular, stronger 

 furrows and wrinkles of growth. 



Height of a medium-sized specimen, 1.10 inches; breadth, 1.50 

 inches ; height of aperture, measuring at the margin of the lip, to 

 the top of the angle above, 0.95 inch ; breadth, about 0.87 inch. 



It is possible that this may be the full-grown adult form of Isone- 

 ma Jepressa, M. & W., as its first and second volutions have much 

 the form and surface markings of that shell. Still, as it shows 

 only the same number of volutions in specimens of nine or ten 

 times the volume of the typical specimen of that species, 1 am 

 led to believe it distinct. Although young specimens are more 

 inclined to be subangular around the middle of the outer turn 

 than in the adult, which often has the body whorl regularly 

 rounded, I think it is never at any stage of growth so angular as 

 in the /. depressa. 



In large examples, with the strong striae of the fii'st turns of 

 the spire obscured by ei'osion, the specimens of this shell (which 

 are usually preserved in such a condition as to present a perfectly 

 white chalk appearance), when viewed from above, resemble very 

 much the bleached shells of some of the large depressed forms 

 of Hdicidse. The strongly flattened, smooth inner lip, however, 

 gives a very different expression to the under side. 



Until more is known in regard to the texture and ornamenta- 

 tion, and particularly in regard to the nature of the inner lip, in 

 the shells on which the genus Holoj)ea was originally founded, it 

 is scared}'' possible to determine exactly the relations of our 

 shells to that group. My present impression, however, is that 

 they constitute a distinct genus. 



The species here described resembles some forms of Platys- 

 chisma, McCoy, but they show no traces whatever of the shallow- 

 sinus of the outer lip, and differ remarkably in the presence of 

 the thickened, appressed, and distinctly flattened inner lip, while 

 in the species here described, and in /. depressa, there is not 

 even a slight umbilical perforation. This latter character, how- 

 ever, may not be constant in the group. 

 Locality and position. Same as foregoino-. 



. [June 6j 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 81 



OKTHONEMA NEWBERRYI, Meek. 



Shell turreted, elongate-conical; volutions eight or nine in 

 adult examples, compressed-convex, with a more outward slope 

 than the general slant of the spire, the most convex part being 

 near the lower side of each, a little above the suture; first one or 

 two very small and depressed, and the next one or two more 

 rapidly increasing in size than those below, thus giving a propor- 

 tionally shorter and more conical appearance to young than adult 

 specimens; suture well defined, in consequence of the prominence 

 of the lower part of each turn just above. Surface ornamented by 

 three very slender, raised revolving lines, one of which is placed 

 a little below the suture, and the other two below the middle of the 

 turns of the spire, and on the middle of the last volution ; of these 

 revolving lines the upper two ai'e broken up into minute, regularly 

 arranged, projecting points, while the other is usuall}^ continuous ; 

 lines of growth minute, sharpl}^ defined, and very regularly and 

 closely arranged, passing vertically and very nearly or quite 

 straight across the volutions. (Aperture unknown.) 



Length, 0.63 inch; breadth, 0.22 inch. 



The general appearance of this ver}' neat little shell, with its 

 three slender revolving lines, two passing around the middle of its 

 body volution, and below the middle of those of the spire, at once 

 recalls to the mind the genus llurchisonia. A moment's exami- 

 nation under a magnifier, however, shows that the sharply defined 

 lines of growth pass straight across the volutions, without making 

 the slightest flexure indicating a sinus in the lip, such as we see 

 in Murchisonia and Pleurotoniaria. 



It is a more slender shell than the t3'pe of the genus, 0. Salteri, 

 M. and W., from the Coal-measures, and has a much deeper suture, 

 and less angular body volution, with other differences in the 

 details of its markings. Although nothing is known of the nature 

 of its aperture and columella, it agrees so exactl}- in all its other 

 generic characters with the genus 07ihonema, that I have no 

 hesitation in referring it to that genus. It is certainlj^ not a 

 Murchisonia, and differs radicallj^ in its ornamentation from 

 Loxonema, and all of the other palaeozoic types to which the more 

 or less similar univalves of the older rocks are usually referred. 



Locality and position. Otsego, Wood County, Ohio, from the 

 Corniferous groups, just above the Glass Sand. Mr. Gilbert. 

 1871.] . 




82 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



TROCHITA? ANTIQTJA, Meek. 



Shell strongly depressed, subtrocliiforra, about three times as 

 wide as high ; under side flattened and provided with a broad, 

 shallow, excentric umbilical impression; volutions two and a half 

 to three, a little convex, with a gentle outward slope above, and 

 an angular periphery at the connection of the upper slope of the 

 whorls and the base ; suture rather obscure ; aperture transversely 

 rhombic ; nearly three times as wide as high, with acutely angular 

 outer and inner extremities ; upper edge of lip very oblique, and 

 extended far forward beyond that below, which seems to be nearly 

 straight. Surface of upper side ornamented by rather distinct 

 lines, or small ridges of growth, which cross the volutions very 

 obliquely, with strong backward curves as they approach the 

 periphery parallel to the margin of the lip. 



Breadth, 2.12 inches ; height, 0.66 inch. 



The specimens of this shell yet found are very imperfect, but 

 its form and general appearance are so peculiar that there can 

 scarcely be any difficulty in identifying it. Although it has a 

 broad umbilical impression, this impression does not appear to 

 extend up into the very short spire as a true umbilicus. It may 

 not be a true Trochifa, but the specimens yet seen show no cha- 

 racters by which it can be separated from that group, which seems 

 to be represented in the Carboniferous rocks. 



Locality and position. Monclova, Lucas County, Ohio. Cor- 

 niferous group of the Devonian. 



TROCHONEMA TRICARINATA, Meek. 

 Shell turbinate, thin, a little wider than high ; spire depressed. 

 Yolutions about five, strongly shouldered, or nearly rectangular 

 above ; the upper surface being flat, or a little concave, and ex- 

 tended out almost horizontally to the rectangular and carinate 

 shoulder ; below this the outer side is nearly vertically flattened 

 to a second carina passing around near the middle of the body 

 whorl, exactly coincident with the suture between that and the 

 succeeding turn, so as not to be exposed on the spire ; below 

 this second carina the under side of the body volution is flattened, 

 with a strong inward slope, to a third well-defined carina, passing 

 around the middle of the under side, and forming the margin of 

 the umbilicus. Aperture oval-subpentagoual, being a little higher 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



than wide, and somewhat angular above, at the connection of its 

 outer lip with the return of the spire, and at the termination of 

 each of the three revolving carinse, as well as very obscurely so a 

 little below the middle of the inner side ; inner lip thin below its 

 connection with the carina passing around the umbilicus, at which 

 point it is very slightl}'' thickened, while above this it seems to 

 be nearly or quite obsolete. Umbilicus rather wide, but shallow, 

 or very rapidly contracting within. Suture well defined, without 

 being in the slightest degree furrowed. Surface only showing 

 very fine lines of growth, which, on the upper flattened space of 

 the volutions, pass obliquely outward and backward, with a very 

 slight curve from the suture to the upper angle or shoulder, below 

 which they pas's nearly straight down the outer flattened area to 

 the second carina, which is as far as they can be traced in the 

 specimen studied. 



Height, 0.81 inch ; breadth, 0.90 inch ; height of aperture, 0.54 

 inch ; breadth of do., 0.46 inch. 



This rather neat shell seems to agree exactly in all of its 

 generic characters with the type of Mr. Salter's genus Troclionema 

 (T. umbilicata, Hall, sp.), excepting in not even showing any 

 tendenc}'' to have its body volution become free at the aperture, 

 nor apparently its peritreme continuous. The first of these cha- 

 racters, however, seems not to be always constant in the typical 

 species of Trochonema ; but the fact that it does generally occur 

 in the same is worthy of note ; while the apparent absence of a 

 continuous peritreme in the shell here under consideration, would 

 certainly seem to be one of more than specific importance. If so, I 

 would suggest for it, at least as a subgeneric designation, the 

 name Trochonemopsis. 



Specificallj^ this shell will be readily distinguished from T. um- 

 bilicata, which it most nearly resembles, not only by its more 

 depressed form, closely contiguous body volution, obsolete inner 

 lip above the middle of the aperture, and more shallow umbilicus, 

 but also by not having its suture channelled and bordered below 

 by a fourth carina around the upper margin of each volution, as 

 in that species. 



Locality and position. Marblehead, Ohio. Corniferous group. 



Note. — In the same matrix with the above-described shell, I have been 

 surprised to notice numerous minute bodies that I can scarcely doubt are 



1871.] 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



really the fruits of the fresh-water genus Cliara. At any rate, they certainly 

 seem to present all the external characters of the same. These little bodies 

 are globose, about 0.05 of an inch in diameter, and each ornamented by nine 

 strongly defined, and very regularly disposed, spiral ridges, which start on 

 one side around a minute i)it, and pass with perfect regularity spirally so as 

 to converge to an exactly ojiposite point on the other side, making each about 

 one spiral turn in passing from side to side. If really the seeds of this fresh- 

 water genus of plants, they must have been carried into the sea by streams, 

 and deposited where we now find them, along with numerous marine shells. 



PTEROPODA. 



CONULAKIA MICRONEMA, Meek. 



Shell elongate-pyramidal, with the sides equal and diverging 

 from the apex at an angle of about 16 degrees ; lateral surfaces 

 nearly flat, and without any mesial furrow, but sometimes showing 

 a very faint, slender mesial ridge, that becomes nearlj' or quite 

 obsolete toward the smaller end ; each of the four angles a little 

 rounded, and provided with a shallow, moderately distinct longi- 

 tudinal furrow. Surface with numerous, extremely small, closely 

 crowded, transverse strife, of \nery nearlj^ the same size on all parts 

 of the shell ; striae gently arching forward as they cross the sides, 

 and scarce!}'- interrupted at the little mesial longitudinal ridge ; 

 minutely crenate, and separated by extremely slender linear fur- 

 rows, numbering fifteen in the space of one-tenth of an inch on 

 all i)arts of tlie surface; crenulations of striae twelve to fifteen in 

 one-tenth inch. 



Length of a specimen broken at both ends, with a diameter of 

 0.96 inch at the larger end, and 0.46 inch at the smaller, 2.30 

 inches. 



This species is remarkable for the extreme fineness and closely 

 crowded uniform character of the transverse striai on all parts of 

 the surface. I know of no other species, resembling it in other re- 

 spects, with near such fine crowded striie. At a little distance these 

 lines are entirely invisible to the unassisted eye, and it requires 

 the aid of a magnifier to see them distinctly. The furrows between 

 these striffi are more impressed hair-lines, in which no crenula- 

 tions are visible in the specimen. 



Locality and poHifion. Sciotoville, Ohio. Waverley, or lowest 

 division of the Carboniferous. 



[June 6, 




XATURAL SCIKSCR5 OF PHILADELPHIA. So 



COXTLABIA ELEGAirrCLA. M^-ek. 



Shell presenting the usual quadrangular pvraniidal form, with 

 the di\-ergence of the sides from the rather jx>intevl ajx^x, fonuinij 

 an angle of about IS degrees: each of the four lateral angles 

 slightly rounded and distinctly furroweil : sides equal, nearly 

 flat, and without any well define*.! longitudinal mesial furrow. 

 Surface ornamented by numerous, very small, closely arrang^^l, 

 transverse lines that arch gently forwarxl or towani the aivrtuiv, 

 and sometimes become slightly interrupted and alternating along 

 the middle of each side; while in other instances they are merely 

 a little deflected and continuous across this slight impression or 

 imaginary line. These lines attain their largest size, and are 

 separated by spaces of their own breadth, at about O.TO inch from 

 the apex, and beyond this l»ecome gradually smaller and mor« 

 crowded toward the aperture. AVheiv largest and widest apart, 

 they number about seven in one-tenth of an inch. They aiv all 

 erenulated, thei-e being fourteen of the crenulations in a length of 

 one-tenth of an inch. Furrows K^tween the transverse lines 

 marked by very fine strife, much smaller and more cn^wded than 

 the crenulations on the strijv, and running in the diivction of the 

 longitudinal axis of the shell. 



Length of specimen, apparently nearly entire, 1.70 inches; 

 breadth, about 0.50 inches. 



This species is related to C. bi/bUs of White ^^Proc. Bost. Soc, 

 y. H.. Feb. 1S62, p. 22), and C. »m<//j(W/a/(i, M. ^t W. ^Proc. 

 Acad. Sci.. Phila., Pec. lSt>o, p. 252\ from the Waverlcy group 

 of Iowa and Ohio. It diflers, however, in having its transverse 

 lines smaller and more crowded, there being about TO of them to 

 the inch, at the point where they are largest and widest apart, 

 and 100 in the same space near the larger end of the shell; while 

 in both of the Waverlcy species mentioned, only forty-live to firty 

 occur in an inch. The crenulations of the transverse stria^ an' 

 also smaller and more crowded in the species under considcraiion, 

 there being usually fourteen of them in one-tenth of an inch, which 

 would oive 140 to the inch; while, according to Prof. WinchcU's 

 measurements, they are so much larger and more distant in (\ h(/- 

 blis, that GO to 75 of them would occupy the same space. Tiio 

 obtusely rounded and smooth apex mentioned in Dr. White's de- 

 scription, if natural, would be another very important distinction; 

 1S71.] 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



but I suspect, from the appearance of some of the specimens of 

 species of this genus figured by Prof. Barrande, that this is due 

 to the removal of the apex by some accident, so as to expose one 

 of the smooth septa within.^ 



Compared with G. Niagarensis, Hall, the species under con- 

 sideration evidently differs in being much more gradually taper- 

 ing, and has the transverse lines much smaller and more crowded 

 toward the larger end of the shell. In form it agrees more nearly 

 with G. simjjlex of Barrande, which, however, has the furrows 

 between the transverse lines smooth, and these lines not becoming 

 smaller and more crowded toward the aperture from a point six 

 to seven tenths of an inch from the apex. 



Locality and position. Delaware, Ohio. Corniferous division 

 of the Devonian. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



CYRTOCEEAS OHIOENSE, Meek. 



Shell long, slender, gently arched, and very graduall}^ ta- 

 pering, section nearly circular, the clorso-ventral diameter being 

 slightly greater than the transverse. Septa distant from each 

 other, on the outer or convex (ventral) side of the curve, slightly 

 more than one-sixth, and on the inner side about one-seventh, 

 the dorso-ventral diameter. Siphuncle situated near the outer 

 side of the curve, but not exactly marginal. Surface ornamented 

 by small, somewhat irregular annular ridges and strise that curve 

 a little backward in crossing the ventral side. Rather distinct, 

 raised lines also mark the surface longitudinally, so as to form 

 with the annular markings a somewhat cancellated appearance. 



Length of a specimen incomplete at both ends, and septate 

 throughout, excepting about one inch of the anterior end, 6.50 

 inches (measuring along the convex side of the curve). Dorso- 

 ventral diameter at the posterior end, 1.33 inches ; transverse 



' Since seeing these figures of Prof. Barrande' s, I am led to think it pro- 

 bable that C. hyblis, White, and C. multicostata, M. & W., may belong to 

 one species, the apparent obtusely rounded smooth apex of C. hyblis being 

 the principal character that led us to suppose the C. multicostata to be quite 

 distinct. A comparison of specimens, liowever, might show other distinc- 

 tions. 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



diameter at the same place, 1.27 inches. The increase in size is 

 such that the same measurements at a point three inches farther 

 forward, are respectively 1.56 and 1.50 inches, while from this 

 point to the broken anterior end, which includes only about one 

 inch of the body chamber, the shell diminishes a little in both 

 diameters, but apparently more in the transverse than the dorso- 

 ventral, though this may be in part due to accidental lateral 

 pressure. 



This species seems to be related to Crxjptoceras eitgemum, Hall 

 (Regents' 15th Report, p. 70, pi. 9, figs. 1, 2, and 3), but evidently 

 not only attained a larger size, but differs in having its dorso- 

 ventral diameter a little greater than the transverse, instead of the 

 reverse. It also differs in being marked with distinct longitudinal 

 raised lines, as well as in tapering somewhat, from the central re- 

 gion forward, and in having its septa more closely arranged. In 

 form it agrees more or less nearly with several of the Bohemian 

 species figured by Dr. Barrande, but it differs from all of them in 

 its surface markings ; while from his C. pugio^ which has some- 

 what similar sculpturing, it differs in being a little more curved, 

 and without transverse undulations. 



The entire shell could scarcely have been less than 12 to 14 

 inches in length, and probably curved so as to form about one- 

 fourth of a circle. 



Locality and position. Dublin, Franklin Co., Ohio. Cornife- 

 rous group of the Devonian series. 



GYROCEKAS (TKOCHOCERAS ?) OHIOENSE, Meek. 



Shell attaining a large size, oval-subdiscoid ; composed of thi-ee 

 or four rather rapidly enlarging whorls, the inner ones of which 

 are closely contiguous, while the last one seems to become a little 

 free at the aperture; umbilicus large and of moderate depth. 

 Volutions rounded — subquadrangular, with the transverse dia- 

 meter somewhat greater than the dorso-ventral ; rather broadly 

 flattened on the periphery, and compressed convex on the sides, 

 which round off gradually into the umbilicus, and more abruptly 

 to the periphery, excepting in young shells, which have the sides 

 of the volutions more flattened, and rounding as abruptly into 

 the umbilicus as to the flattened outer side. Septa moderately 

 distant, or separated by spaces which measure, on the middle of 

 each side, about one-third the dorso-ventral diameter of the volu- 

 1871.] 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



tion at the same point ; curving gracefully backward as they cross 

 the sides, and forward as the}' pass from the sides to the flattened 

 periphery, in crossing wliich the}' again make another, but stronger, 

 backward curve. Body chamber large, or occupying more than 

 half the outer volution. Surface (of cast) ornamented by small 

 transverse ridges, of which about thirty may l^e counted to a side 

 of each volution, the outer half only of which they occupy, without 

 passing over or upon the periphery; while on the inner volutions 

 they are sometimes so short as to assume the aspect of trans- 

 versely elongated nodes. Siphuncle, aperture, and finer surface 

 markings unknown. 



Greatest diameter across the disc of a specimen with a part of 

 the outer volution broken away, about nine inches ; dorso-ventral 

 diameter of outer volution at the point where it is broken olfj 

 3.63 inches ; thickness, or transverse diameter, of same at same 

 point, about 3.90 inches. 



Owing to the fact that the only two specimens of this species I 

 have seen are both in such a condition as to show clearly only 

 one side (the upper side of it is a Trochoceras), I am in some little 

 doubt whether it is a Oyroceras or a Trochoceras. From the 

 depth of the concavity of this side, however, I can scarcely question 

 that the volutions are really coiled in the same plane, as in Gyro- 

 ceras and Nautilus. The contiguous character of its volutions 

 (excepting apparently the last one, near the aperture) is, how- 

 ever, rather against its being a Gyroceras, though the inner turns 

 are sometimes in contact in species apparently belonging to that 

 genus. If the last turn reallj' does become free, as seems to be 

 the case, this character would be equally against the probability 

 of its being a Nautilus; but as the specimens are not in a condi- 

 tion to quite remove all doubts on this point, it is barely possible 

 that this shell may be found to belong to some of the sections of 

 that group, though I can scarcely think so. 



I know of no described species of Gyroceras so nearly allied to 

 this specificall}', as to require a close comparison. 



Locality and position. Delaware, Ohio, and in Marion County 

 of the same State. Coruiferous limestone of the UpiDcr Helderberg 

 Series (Devonian). 



[June 6, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



GYKOCERAS (NAUTILUS ?) INELEGANS, Meek. 



Shell attaining a large size, subdiscoidal. Volutions about two 

 and a half to three, increasing rapidly in size, having a somewhat 

 greater dorso-ventral than transverse diameter, being moderately 

 compressed on each side, narrowly rounded over the periphery, 

 and rounding regularly into the umbilicus, which is of moderate 

 depth and distinctly narrower than the dorso-ventral diameter of 

 the outer whorl. First turn apparently slightly embraced by the 

 second, which seems to become free toward the aperture. Septa 

 rather distant, deeply concave on their anterior faces, and all 

 crossing the sides and periphery with very slight backward curves ; 

 separated from each other on the periphery b}^ spaces equalling 

 about half the dorso-ventral diameter at the point of measurement. 

 Body chamber large, or forming half the outer volutions ; aperture 

 not expanded ; lip sinuous on the outer side. Surface of cast 

 showing, on the inner volutions, some traces of rather distant 

 transverse ridges, which become nearly or quite obsolete on the 

 outer turn. Siphuncle and finer surface markings unknown. 



Greatest diameter across the disc of a specimen a little com- 

 pressed by accidental pressure, nine inches ; dorso-ventral dia- 

 meter of last turn near the aperture, 4.10 inches; transverse 

 diameter of same, 3.50 inches. 



This is another form in reo;ard to the generic characters of 

 which I am in doubt. Its more rapidly expanding volutions, 

 more rounded periphery, proportionally narrow umbilicus, and 

 closely contiguous, or even slightly embraced inner turns, give it a 

 much more nautiloid look than the last, and I should scarcely 

 hesitate to refer it to the genus Nautilus, if it were not for the 

 fact that the outer volution seems to be a little detached at the 

 aperture. Still, this may possibl}- be due to compression. 



Locality and iwsition. Corniferous group, Marion County, 

 Ohio. 



CRUSTACEA. 



PROETUS PLANIMAKGINATUS, Meek. 



Pygidium depressed, semi-elliptic, the length and breadth being 

 nearly as five to seven ; anterior margin gently arcuate or convex 

 in outline; posterior somewhat narrowly rounded; lateral margins 

 diverging forward, with slightly convex outlines, to ,the anterior 

 1871.] PART L— 7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



lateral angles, wliich are not truncated. Mesial lobe rather de- 

 pressed, but rounded and well defined, narrow, or only about 

 two-thirds as wide at its anterior end as the lateral lobes, taper- 

 ing gradually, witli straight sides, to its posterior extremity, 

 which terminates at a distance of about half the breadtli of the 

 anterior end, within the margin ; provided with about twelve or 

 thirteen nearly straight segments, most of wliich are well defined. 

 Lateral L^bes gently convex, sloping gradually from near the 

 middle to tlic lateral and posterior margins, which are horizontally 

 flattened, but not thickened; segments eight or nine, not extend- 

 ing upon the flattened margins, and each divided its entire length, 

 by so broad a furrow (flat within) that only a very narrow ante- 

 rior and posterior margin is left projecting, and merely separated 

 from that of the contiguous segment by a faint linear depression, 

 tlius presenting the appearance of narrow ribs or segments longi- 

 tudinally marked by faint linear furrows, and separatevl from each 

 other by broad flattened depressions. Surface apparently nearly 

 smootli. (Other characters unknown.) 



Length of pygidium, 0.G4 inch ; breadth, 0.94 inch ; height of 

 lateral lobes, 0.13 inch; do. to top of mesial lobe at its anterior 

 end, 0.23 incli. 



The pygidium of this species seems to present much the same 

 proportions as the corresponding part of P. Haldemani, Plall 

 from the Hamilton group ; but it has a proportionally^ narrower 

 mesial lobe, and a smaller number of segments in the lateral 

 obes. It also differs in having a distinctly flattened instead of 

 thickened border. If I have correctly understood the nature of 

 the segments of its lateral lobes, they are also A^ery different from 

 those of P. Haldemani, being provided with wide flattened longi- 

 tudinal furrows. These furrows are so wide and strongly defined 

 that I have been in some doubt whether the}'" ought not rather to 

 be regarded as the divisions between the segments (wliich, in that 

 case, would be represented by the comparatively narrow interven- 

 ing furrows) than as the furrows of the segments themselves. 

 On tracing them inward, however, to the mesial lobe, they are 

 found to be abruptly narrowed and curved slightly forward as 

 they approach the latter, so as to seem to correspond to the 

 furrows on the segments, rather than to depressions hehveen them. 



None of the specimens show much of the surface, but, as far as 

 it can be seen, it seems to be smooth, and to coincide exactly 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 91 



with the smallest elevations and depressions of the internal cast, 

 from which the foregoing description was drawn np. 



Locality and position. Upper part of the Corniferous group, 

 Sylvania, Lucas County, Ohio. Devonian. Mr. Gilbert's collec- 

 tion. 



DALMANITES OHIOENSIS, Meek. 



Pj'gidium large, depressed, semi-elliptic or semi-oval in general 

 outline, nearly straight or gentl}^ convex in outline on the ante- 

 rior margin, with the lateral angles a little rounded ; posterior 

 extremit}^ somewhat raised and truncated, with the lateral angles 

 of the truncated margin produced into two rather sliort, distinctly 

 converging spines. Mesial lohe narrow, or only equalling half 

 the breadth of each lateral lobe at the anterior ends, depressed 

 and graduallj^ tapering to the posterior end, which terminates 

 very near tlie truncated posterior margin ; rather distinctly sepa- 

 rated 1)y the furrow on each side from the lateral lobes ; segments 

 about eighteen, passing straight across, and separated by Avell- 

 defined furrows, that are narrower tlian the segments themselves, 

 which are not furrowed. Lateral lobes most convex along some- 

 what within the middle, where they are nearlj^ or quite as high as 

 the mesial lobe, toward which they slope slightly on the inner 

 side, while beyond the middle they sIojjc off gradually to the 

 lateral margins, which are very narrow, not thickened above, and 

 curve outward nearly horizontal!}^; segments al^out fifteen, widen- 

 ing slightly outward, and separated V>y deep, well-defined furrows 

 extending very nearly to the lateral margins ; the larger ones 

 showing faint traces of a slender longitudinal furrow along the 

 middle, while all, excepting a few of the smallest posterior ones, 

 are produced beyond the lateral margins in the form of slender, 

 sharp rounded spines, that curve a little backward and upward. 

 Surface nearly or quite smooth. Thorax and cephalic shield 

 unknown. 



Length of pj^gidium, 1.10 inch; breadth, 2.10 inches; height 

 or convexity, 0.25 inch; breadth of posterior truncation, 0.45 

 inch ; length of longest spines projecting from lateral margin, 

 0.38 inch. 



This Trilobite seems to be closely allied to D. myrmecophorus 

 (= Asaphus myrmecophorus), Green, to which I was at one time 

 inclined to refer it. A careful comparison, however, with the 

 18TL] 




92 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



description of that species given by Green and Hall, seems to show 

 that our fossil cannot be properly considered identical. In the 

 first place, it differs in having the mesial lobe only just half as 

 wide as each of the lateral (measuring both at their anterior 

 ends), instead of only about one-third as wide (see dimensions 

 D. myrmecophorus, given in the Fifteenth Report, Regents Univ. 

 N. Y., on State Cab. N. H., p. 18). Again, it shows no traces 

 whatever of nodes or spines (excepting the marginal spines) on 

 any of the segments, either of the mesial or latex'al lobes ; while 

 in Green's species the segments of the lateral lobes are described, 

 in the Regents' Report above cited, and also by Green, as being 

 marked by one or two rows of nodes, and those of the mesial 

 lobe are described in the Regents' Report as being marked each 

 by three spines. Our species also shows a faintly impressed mesial 

 line along each segment of the lateral lobes, not mentioned either 

 by Hall or Green in describing D. myrmecophorus. 



Green gives the number of segments in the middle lobe of the 

 pj^gidium as fourteen, and in each lateral lobe as thirteen; while 

 in apparently a larger specimen (three inches in length). Prof. 

 Hall counted twenty-four segments in the axis, and twenty in 

 each lateral lobe ; from which we may infer that the number of 

 segments varied somewhat with the size of the specimen in that 

 species. 



Although nothing is known of the cephalic shield of this species, 

 or, I believe, of that described by Green, I have little or no hesi- 

 tation in expressing the opinion that at least the form here under 

 consideration possessed the peculiar perforated or digitated exten- 

 sion of its anterior margin seen in D. selinurus, and hence that 

 it belongs to Mr. Conrad's subgenus Odontocephalus. 



Another specimen in the collection from the same locality and 

 position as that from which the foregoing description was made 

 out, consisting of a rude cast of the p^^gidium, shows the same pro- 

 portional breadth of the mesial and lateral lobes, and apparently 

 about the same number of segments, but differs in being propor- 

 tionally longer, its length being to its breadth as about 8 to 11, 

 instead of about 8 to 13. It also differs in having the spines on 

 each side of the truncated posterior extremity distinctly larger 

 than in the form above described, and directed straight backward 

 as in D. selinur-us, instead of converging, as in the last. The 

 spines along its lateral margins, however, are, on the contrary, 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 93 



proportionally decidedly smaller. This, I suspect, belongs to a 

 distinct species; but, as the specimen is too much eroded to show 

 its surface character clearl3', I have preferred to refer it doubt- 

 fully, for the present, to the same. 



Locality and position. Marblehead, Ohio. Corniferous group 

 of the Devonian. 



isn.] 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON CEETAIN SPECIES OF FALCONIDJE, TETRAONID^, AND ANATID^ 



BY ALFRED NEWTON, 



PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE, ENGLAND. 



[Communicated by Mr. Coues.] 



Magdalene College, Cambridge. 



2Sth November, 1869. 



My Dear Sir: I have just received your letter of the 9th inst. 

 I have the greatest pleasure in giving you all the information in 

 my power. 



As to the Great Northern Falcon question — I cannot count 

 more than six men in Europe who really understand it. It would 

 be invidious to name them. Two of them, Schlegel and Blasius, 

 I had the i:)lcasure of converting from their old heresies. I en- 

 deavored to bring Cassin to a right understanding (»f the matter 

 when I was in Philadelphia more than a dozen years ago, but I 

 did not succeed, and consequently his notice in the " Birds of 

 North America" (p. 13) is all wrong. I have not much to add 

 or anything to retract from some remarks of mine on this ques- 

 tion in "The Ibis" for 1862 (pp>. 44-53), in my appendix to Baring- 

 Gould's " Iceland" (pp. 404, 407), and in the " Ootheca Wolley- 

 ana" (pp. 85, 8t). 



The first thing to become fully impressed with is that these 

 large falcons have exactly the same changes of plumage as Falco 

 2')ereginus or F. anatum (supposing the}' are distinct), i. e., 

 the young in their first plumage are marked longitudinally, and 

 this plumage they keep until their second autumn, when the fully 

 adult plumage is assumed. In sajdng this, I do not mean to 

 declare that the moult is a matter of a very short time. On the 

 ontrary, I have reason to believe tliat in most examples it lasts 

 for some months ; but by the end of their second autumn they are 

 in fully adult plumage. All that has been said about these birds 

 growing whiter and whiter as they grow older is founded on mere 

 speculation and fancy. The main differences between immature 

 and adult plumage are that the browns become grays, and the 

 longitudinal markings transverse. None of the European dealers 

 understand this; and if j'ou liave skins from Paris, 3'ou will 

 find, I am sure, young white birds marked " tres adulte," and old 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



blue birds marked "jeune." It is the same with specimens from 

 Copenhagen and elsewhere. Now it being understood tiiat, as I 

 have above said, the age of the ])ird may be detected from the 

 color, and, still better, from the direction of the markings, it will 

 then be evident that in a large series you have what at first sight 

 appears to be almost every step from the nearly pure white phase 

 — wliieh some consider, tliough I do not, to be the F. arcticus of 

 Holboll — to the dark-colored F. lahradora of Auduljon, and it is 

 not easy to see how thej^ can lie distinguished. Easy it is, how- 

 ever, on trial. Sort out all the specimens with white l)ills and 

 claws (tlie white is often flesh-colored owing to extravasated 

 blood), and then you will have Falco candicans. Then turn all 

 the other specimens on to their l)ellies, and lay in one heap those 

 that have the tops of their heads not darker than their backs, 

 and on another those that have the tops of their heads not lighter 

 than their backs. The first of these heaps will be F. islandicus, 

 and the second F. gyrfalco. You will have perhaps some five per 

 cent, that this test will not reach, and this remainder will require 

 further comparison; but I am much mistaken if the "moustache" 

 will not enable 3^ou to distriluite tlie balance. Then you may 

 look at the labels — always being, of course, suspicious of French 

 geography — and I think you will have something like this result : — 



BILL AND 

 CLAWS. 



White or ( 

 pale flesh < 

 color. ( 



Dusky 

 horu 

 color. 



PLnjIAGE ABOVE. 



White with dark markings. 



' Top of head not"! 

 diii'ker than 1 



back ; raous- | 

 tache light. J 



Dark 

 with 

 liglit 

 mark- 

 ings. 



Top of head not~l 

 ligliter than I 

 hack ; raous- f 

 tache heavy. J 



F. eandieans,^ 



r 



F. islandicus,'^ 



LOCALITIES. 



Adult. 



N. Greenland, 

 N. parts of fur 



countries, 

 Siberia ? 



Southern 



Greenland 

 and Iceland.' 



■f. gyrfalco, -{ 



I Norway, 

 Sweden, 

 Finland, 

 Siberia ? 



Immature. 

 Iceland, British 

 Islands, Nor- 

 way, Sweden, 

 Canada, U. S., 

 " Siberia" 



(Pallas), 

 (in Mus, Berol), 

 " Amoor" 



(Schrenck). 



British Islands, 

 Norway, Ice- 

 land, Labrador, 

 Canada, U. S. 



Norway, Swe- 

 den, Holland, 

 N. Germany. 



I P. S. 6 May, 1871. Since this letter was written Prof. Baird has kindly 

 sent me some spcchnens from Alaska to examine. These are adult, and 

 differ from Icelandic examples only in being slightly darker. (P. Z. S. 1870, 

 p. 384.) "Alaska" should, therefore, be added to the localities named above. 

 1871.] 




96 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OF 



The adults will be from the countries where each form breeds, 

 and the 3'oung from those to which they wander (generallj^ in the 

 autumn or winter). 



We have in Europe (including Iceland and Spitzbergen as Euro- 

 pean), in m3'- opinion, four^ species of Lagopus ; for I count L. sco- 

 ticus as a species, since it can be always most readily distinguished 

 from L. albus, and has (nowadays) a different habitat, but that 

 it is only L. albus modified to suit an insular climate, I am per- 

 suaded; just as I am that Lepus hihernicus is a mere insulated 

 form of L. timidiis, Linn, nee auctt, (Cf. P. Z. S. 1864, p. 497.) 

 Of L. scoticus, however, I need say nothing here. L. albus, of 

 which remains are found in the caves of the "Reindeer period" in 

 the south of France, together with those of Nyctea nivea, is now- 

 adays, as you no doubt know, confined to Norway and Sweden in 

 Western Europe, Finland and Russia in the East. Its south- 

 ernmost limits in Russia I do not know. I think I have read 

 somewhere of its occurring in the very east of Prussia, but I can- 

 not be sure. Between European and American specimens of L. 

 albus, I have never been able to detect any difference at all. The 

 L.brachydacfylus of Temminck, figured by Werner (Atl. Ois. Eur.) 

 and by Gould, is L. albus, as I know by the type at Lej-den which 

 I have examined (so also says Schlegel somewhere). It is a win- 

 ter bird with perfectly white remiges ; but I may here remark that 

 the variation in the color of the remiges (I speak of the adult, 

 for in the young the primaries first assumed and borne till the 

 first moult are always brown) seems to me but an individual 

 character. Examples killed from the same flock exhibit much 

 diversity in the coloring of the space alongside the shaft of the 

 primaries. Sometimes there is a broad dark-colored patch ex- 

 tending along the greater part of it, and sometimes all is pure 

 white. I have noticed much the same thing in American birds. 

 Next to L. albus, we have L. mutus or alpinus — the species to 

 which the Gallic name Ptarmigan is really applicable. This in- 

 habits Scotland, Norway and Sweden, Finland, Northern Russia, 

 the Alps and Pyrenees, its range being determined by the elevation 

 above the sea-level, which varies inversely as the latitude. The 

 male of this in full breeding plumage has a black breast (as 

 figured in Gould's B.of Grt. Brit.), but the/itZZ breeding plumage 



1 P. S. 6 May, 1871. I should now say "five," see next note. 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



is very seldom completed, and before all the winter (white) feathers 

 have been shed, some of the ash3'-gray autumn plumage arc gene- 

 rally observable. Still, a % , killed, say in May, always has a 

 considerable number of purely black feathers on his breast. At 

 this time the ? is of a bright orange color, vermiculated above 

 with black, and hardly to be distinguished from L. rupestris of 

 the same sex and season. Later in the year both sexes put on au 

 ashy-gray plumage (for Lagojius has three moults a year), and 

 in this you have the " plumage des noces" of most of the conti- 

 nental dealers. I myself have never seen Pyrcnrean specimens, 

 but it is said that they are specifically identical with those of the 

 Alps, and these last are certainly not distinguishable from our 

 own or Scandinavian examples. I am told that there is appreci- 

 able difference observable in the size of Scotch specimens accord- 

 ing as they ai*e from the summits of the hills or lower down, and 

 I know there is such difference in Norwegian ones. The laro;est 

 L. mutus I ever saw were from Qvalo, the island on which Hammer- 

 fest stands, and owing to its proximity to the sea, I suppose, and 

 the influence of the gulf stream (the well-known " Horri-eye" bean 

 is constantly thrown up there), the climate of Qvalo is certainly 

 much more equable and milder than that of the frontier range of 

 mountains between Norway and Sweden, and still more so than such 

 hills as those about Kilpisjeroi, whence have come the smallest 

 specimens I ever handled. I should think two Qvalo birds would 

 weigh as much as three from Kjolen, and the difference of size is 

 plainl}^ visible even in the sternum. But of course no one would 

 wish to separate these birds unless it was Brehm. The fourth 

 European species I hold to be the same as your L. rupestris, which 

 L. mutus certainly is not. Under the name of L. hemileucurus (or, 

 Malmgren would say, L. hyperhoreus), the Spitzbergen bird has 

 been described as distinct, but I have hardly a doubt* remaining 

 that it is in every respect identical with the Islandic L. islando- 

 rum, which again I hold to be specifically* identical with L. rein- 

 hardti of Greenland, and L. rupestris of Labrador, and the 



' P. S. 6 May, 1871. Dr. Von Heuglin having kindly sent me some ex- 

 amples of the Spitzbergen bird obtained by him last year, an examination 

 of them has entirely changed my opinion on this point. I now beheve L. 

 liemileucxirus to be a good species, and I have stated my reasons for so 

 thinking in notes which will shortly be published by that naturalist or by 

 Dr. Finsch. 

 1871.] 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADExMY OF 



Hudson's Bay territory. The females at no time of tlie year 

 differ mucli from L. mutiis, but, so far as I know, the males never 

 in spring assume or attempt to assume a black breast — the color 

 of the new spring feathers upon that part being always a dark 

 (blackish if you like) lirown, but mottled and freckled with 7n(st 

 color. In this stage the bird has none of the fresh look which 

 the brilliant contrast of the pure black and white gives to L. mu- 

 tus ^ . The autumnal plumage of the ? rujtestris I have never 

 been able to make out satisfactorily ; but I have seme reason to 

 think that it is not of the generally clear ashy-gray hue that that 

 of mufus is. This is a i)oint I want especially to be informed 

 upon. They send many skins from Greenland, which I susjject are 

 autumnal birds, but the men are content to mark them " Sommer." 

 I have autumnal females from Iceland, where the orange-yellow of 

 the spring is fast giving way to the white of winter, without the 

 intervention of any autumnal gray. What the Icelandic J" does 

 at the same time I do not know ; I did not stay long enough in 

 Iceland to find out, and the specimens I desired to be sent to me 

 are all apparcntl}^ females. That L.,idandorum and L. reinhardti 

 are identical, I tliink there can be no doubt, and I cannot conceive 

 why Brehm ever invented the latter. That islandoi'um and hemi- 

 leucurus (from Spitzbergen) are the same, I also strongly opine,^ 

 and if I could only get tlie latter to comiiare witli my skins of the 

 former, I think I could settle the question, but it is rare. 



I yesterday received from Malmgren a copy of a paper by him 

 in the "Notiser ur Siillskapets pro Fauna et Flora Fcnnica For- 

 handlingar" for 1869, containing remarks upon the Finnish and 

 Scandinavian geese {Anseridae he calls them). I am delighted to 

 see that he has come to my opinion on several points where we 

 were at issue. Of the genus Chen I can tell you nothing. Of 

 true Anser we havej^ue European species: — 



1. A. /e?'us (Linn.), (^. cinerstts, Meyer), with a white " nail" to 

 the bill, and light gray carpal feathers. 



2. A. segetum (Gmel.), with a black nail to the long bill, dark 

 brownish-gray carpal feathers, and orange-red legs. 



3. A. hrachyy-hynchus, Baillon (A. plxo3nicoims^ Bartlett), with 

 a black nail to the short bill, gray (but not so light as in !N^o. 1) 

 carpal feathers, and pink legs. 



1 P. S. 6 May, 1871. But see preceding note. 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



4, A. albifrons (Gmel.), with a white nail, dark gray carpal 

 feathers, and orange legs. 



5. A. erythrojAis (Linn.), much reseraWing the last, but much 

 smaller (about the size of Anas hoscJras) and perhaps redder 

 orange legs. The synonj^ms of this bird are: A. fnmarchicus, 

 Gunnerus, A. temminckii, Eoie, A. minutus, Naumann, and, as I 

 now see by Malmgren, A. brevirostris, Fritsch ; but this last I 

 have not myself certified. 



jVo. 1. A.ferus is undoubtedly the species from which our tarae 

 geese have sprung. It formerly bred in England, and now breeds 

 in Scotland, where it is, I am satisjied, the only species that does 

 so. (Cf. Ibis. 1865, p. 441 ; 1869, p. 21.) It also breeds in Iceland. 

 (Ibis. 1864, p. 1.32.) The Scandinavian naturalists have said it 

 breeds on the coast of Norway, if not in Sweden also ; but they 

 have only just begun to know A. hrachyrhynchus^ and I suspect 

 most if not all of the geese breeding on the Norwegian coast be- 

 long to that species. It seems, however, to bi'eed in certain parts 

 of Central Europe, and undoubtedly^ in Turkey (Simpson), 

 and also Spain (Saunders). Its occurrence in England is now 

 rare. 



No. 2. A. segetiim, with which I also unite A. intermedins and 

 probably A. arvensis of Naumann, comes to England as a regular 

 winter visitor, but is not so common as the next species ; the A. 

 segetum of Naumann (Naumannia, 1853) is I believe A. hracliy- 

 rhynchus. I only k7ioio of Lapland as a breeding place of this 

 species. The A. paludosus of A. Strickland (his A. seyetum being 

 also A. hrachyrhynclius) is no doubt identical, but proof is 

 wanting that it ever bred in this country. 



No. 3. A. brachyrhynchus is the commonest winter goose in 

 England, arriving often in August. It breeds in Iceland (Ibis. 1864, 

 p. 132), Spitzbergen (Malmgren and Newton), north Norway 

 (Ibis. 1869, p. 226), and I suspect all the way down the Norwegian 

 coast to Trondhjem. Besides the synonym A. phoenicopus, Bart- 

 lett, I believe it to be A. segetum of Naumann and A. Strickland. 



No. 4. A. albifrons breeds in Iceland (A. N.), l)ut I do not 

 know where else — certainly not in northern Scandinavia. In IIol- 

 land they have breeding A. pallidipes^ De Selys, which I take to 

 be ix, feral race of this bird, or perhaps a cross between it and A. 

 ferus (cinereus) ; but it is doubtful to me how far it can be called 

 wild tliere. It has the very white front of albifrons, but is larger 



isn.] 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



and with the legs of A. ferns. A. alhifrons occurs every winter 

 and sometimes numerously in England- 

 No. 5. A. erythropuH. I first showed the identity of A. minutus 

 with the bird originally described by Linnseus (P. Z. S., 1860, 

 June 26). Except A. segetum, it is the only goose that breeds in 

 the interior of Lapland, and it seems also to breed a good deal to 

 the eastward — in Russia, for instance. I do not know of any in- 

 stance of its occurring in England, but apparently they catch it 

 occasionally in Holland. Saunders has seen it in Italy (Ibis. 

 1869, p. 395), and I think some one met with it on the Nile. 



Yours, very truly, 



ALFRED NEWTON. 

 Elliott Coues, Esq., M. D. 



[Jnly 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



April 4, 1871. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirtj'-two members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, referring to the two-leaved division of 

 Pinus of Graj^'s Manual^ said that Pinus mifis was especially 

 named as having sometimes three leaves in a fascicle ; but in two 

 others of that section, P. inops and P. jmngens, he found the so- 

 called leaves in threes almost as abundantly as in the former one. 

 But the chief interest was that in all three species the three-leaved 

 bundles became more numerous as the growth of the season ap- 

 proached its end. In many instances the fascicles just beneath 

 the terminal buds were mostly in threes, and iu those cases, where 

 a second wave of growth had occurred, the terminal fascicles were 

 almost wholly in .threes. He thought that these indications of 

 order in their production might eveutualh' lead to the discovery 

 of the plan on which the fascicles were produced. It would, at 

 least, appear that in all two-leaved fascicles the germs of three 

 were present, and that it depended on some varying phase of 

 growth whether they were all developed or not. 



Mr. M. also said, in regard to the Acei-' rubrum, that he had 

 examined a large number of trees this season in order to test defi- 

 nitely whether there was any difference between the brown-flowered 

 form and the darker one, that had hitherto escaped the attention 

 of botanists. He found that there was no difference, but that as 

 a general rule the brown ones were male ; and it was the brown 

 filaments which gave them this color. There were, however, oc- 

 casional trees of both sexes which favored either color. But he 

 found that there were no trul}' hermaphrodite flowers amongst 

 them, and therefore the description of the books, " polj-gamo- 

 dioecious," was not strictly correct. In manj' female trees there 

 were apparent stamens, but the filaments were almost Avanting, 

 and he had been unable to find any of the anthers which they 

 bore, polleniferous. These abortive stamens hardl}' extended at 

 any time beyond the minute petals ; while the true stamens in the 

 male flowers had filaments extending a half inch or more bej'ond 

 the petals. He suggested that the fact of the apparently herma- 

 phrodite flowers in Ace?^ ruhrum being really pistillate was per- 

 haps a small matter in itself; but it would have much interest to 

 those who were observing how numerous were the species which 

 fell in with Darwin's discovery, that many plants took especial 

 pains to avoid self-fertilization. 



1871.] 




102 proceedings op the academy of 



April 11. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The death of Prof. Constant Dumeril, of Paris, was announced. 

 A paper was presented for publication entitled — 

 "Morphology of the Carpellary scales in Laris." By Thomas 

 Meehan. 



April 18. 



Mr. Yaux, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine members present. 



Prof. Leidy made the following remarks on some extinct turtles 

 from Wyoming Territory : — 



Several species of extinct turtles from the tertiary deposits of 

 Wyoming differ from those previously described by me from the 

 same formation. They are indicated by imperfect, though suffi- 

 cientl3' characteristic, remains, sent to me by Dr. J. Van A. Carter, 

 of Fort Bridger ; and by others obtained during Prof. Haj^den's 

 exploring expedition the last 3'ear. 



Anosteira ornata. — One of the turtles is founded upon a num- 

 ber of isolated plates and fragments of others of the carapace of 

 about four different individuals, obtained from Church Buttes and 

 Grizzly Buttes, Wj'oming. The specimens are mainly marginal, 

 including two pygal plates. The latter are remarkably thick at 

 the fore part, where they are hollowed into a concavity directed 

 forward, and l*ounded below by a projecting ledge. This con- 

 cavity continues outward and forward upon the contiguous mar- 

 ginal plates as a groove, bounded by an inferior ledge, which 

 would aiJi)ear gradually to become narrower, and disappear at the 

 third marginal plates in advance. The upper part of the pygal 

 plate slopes on each side from a median acute ridge or carina, 

 which subsides at the posterior third. The marginal and P3'gal 

 have all been conjoined with the costal plates by suture, and the 

 former in addition by gomphosis, as in living emydes. The free 

 surfaces of the plates are closely covered with radiant elevations. 

 These centrall}^ form rounded tubercles and peripherally more or 

 less interrupted ridges with more or less interrupted branches. 

 Apparently' in j^ounger plates the elevations form more continuous 

 radiant and branching ridges, which wcnild api)ear in older animals 

 to have become more and more broken so as to form rounded 

 tubercles. In some specimens the radiant ridged appearance is 

 more conspicuous on the under surface of the marginal plates, 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



■while the rounrled tuberciilons condition is move ohvions above. 

 In two marginal plates, conspicuously tuberculated al)0vc, the 

 lower surfaces are perfecth' smooth. These prol^ably pertain to 

 a difTerent species. None of the plates exhibit scute impressions, 

 generally so evident in the eniydes. 



Anosteira ornaf.a was almost tlic size of tlie palm or middle 

 hand. A pygal plate measures about eleven lines in length and 

 breadth ; and its height or thickness in front is seven lines. An- 

 other plate from a younger animal measures al)OUt seven lines 

 long, eight broad, and four lines thick in front. 



Hybemys arenarius — The second turtle, almost as large as 

 our common Emys picta, is founded on two specimens ol)tained 

 by Prof. Hay den from a tertiar3' forjnation on Little Sa)id3- Creek. 

 The}^ consist of a marginal plate and tlie portion of a costal plate. 

 The bones are proportionatel}- tliicker than in our common emydes, 

 but like thein are smooth and deeply impressed by t)ie scutes. 



The marginal plate appears to be the ninth of the series. From 

 the groove of the costal scute impression it is directed quite as 

 abruptly outwardly as in any recent emys. Its peculiarity', upon 

 ■which I liave founded the genus, is a striking character. The 

 surfaces, separated hj the groove of the marginal scute impres- 

 sions, present each a half circular boss at the fore and aft borders 

 of tlie bone. Thus from this specimen we may infer that the 

 margin of the carapace was ornamented wdtli a series of hemi- 

 spherical bosses, each of which was situated in the position of, and 

 divided by the sutures of the marginal plates. The breadtli of 

 the specimen fore and aft and transversely is half an ijich. 



April 25, 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 T^^\"enty-nine members present. 



The resolution to amend Art. 2, Chapter XI., of the By-Laws 

 by the addition of the following words : " If there is no quorum 

 at tliese meetings then the election may be held at the sulisequent 

 meetings," having been approved at two preceding meetings for 

 business, ■was finall_y adopted. 



The deaths of Mr. Benjamin Marshall and Prof. Charles M. 

 "Wetherill were announced. 



The followins: gentlemen were elected members: H.Crawford 

 Coates and B. F. Quimby. 



Professor Marsh, of Yale College, made a communication on 

 some new rei)tiles and fishes from the Cretaceous and Tertiary for- 

 mations. Nearly all the specin)ens described were discovered by 

 the Yale College scientific party during their explorations in the 

 Rocky Mountain region last summer. 

 187L] 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Among the specimens from the Cretaceous exhibited were por- 

 tions of a slveleton with the caudal series complete of a new species 

 of Clidasles, about the size of Clidastes propylhon. The anterior 

 caudals were elevated, and the diapophyses extended back to 

 about the twenty-fourth vertebra witli chevrons. The tail was 

 extremely attenuated, as there are in the series eighty-one vertebrae 

 with chevrons, the terminal ones being less than one-twelfth of an 

 inch in diameter. The muzzle in this species is less pointed than 

 in G. j)ropijtJion. The remains were found in the Cretaceous of 

 Kansas, and the species was named Clidastes Wijmani. 



A second and very diminutive species of the same genus was 

 represented by portions of the skull and teeth, with the quadrates, 

 and several cervical vertebrae. The species was consideral)ly 

 smaller than C. propytlion, and differed essentially from that 

 species in several respects, especially in the quadrate, which had 

 the postero-superior process terminated by a short compressed 

 hook. The teeth were smooth and nearly round at the base. 

 This species, which was also from the Gray Shale of Kansas, is 

 the smallest known mosasauroid, and Avas hence named Clidastes 

 pumilus. Another new Cretaceous reptile was indicated by two 

 teeth, which were found together in the middle marl bed at Bir- 

 mingham, New Jersey. They apparently belonged to a Croco- 

 dilian, probably allied to Huposaurus. One of the teeth, apparently 

 from the anterior part of the jaw, is long, pointed, nearly round, 

 and covered with strong angular but smooth ridges, except just 

 at the ai)ex, where the}' disappear. The posterior cutting edge 

 is sharp and prominent, and extends the entire length of the 

 crown. The anterior edge is onl}' distinct a short distance near 

 the apex. The second tooth has the crown short and compressed, 

 with irregular ridges, and resembles somewhat the posterior teeth 

 of Hyposawiis. These specimens indicate a species considerably 

 larger than H. Rogersii, which, until its generic characters are more 

 fully determined, may be called Hyposaurus ferox. 



Among the other reptilian remains exhibited b}'^ Professor 

 Marsh were several new species of Crocodilians from the Tertiary 

 of Wyoming. One of these, which was named Crocodilus ziphodon^ 

 was remarkable in having smooth compressed teeth, with serrated 

 edges, resembling the teeth of some of the carnivorous Dinosaurs. 

 This animal, which was of moderate size, appears to have been 

 covered witli articular scutes. The quadrate was subtriangular in 

 transverse outline at its distal end. Another small species, also with 

 articulated scutes, was indicated by the more important parts of 

 the skeleton. It liad verj^ slender jaws, and smooth, nearly round 

 teeth. The quadrate was unusually flat at its distal end, and had 

 a broad longitudinal elevation on its lower surface. The hj'po- 

 l^hysis was simple, elongate, and compressed. The species was 

 named Crocodilus liodon. A third new species was apparently 

 indicated by a nearly complete skeleton, and parts of several 



[July 4, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 105 



others. It had slender jaws, a short symphysis, and rugose, 

 striated teeth, somewhat compressed. The quadrate was con- 

 stricted at its distal end, and had a sharp longitudinal ridge on 

 its lower surface. For this species the name of Crocodilus l[}riii- 

 nelli was proposed. 



The remaining reptilian fossils described by Professor Marsh 

 were also from the Tertiary of Wyoming, and indicated several 

 species of Lacertilia^ some of them of large size. They belong 

 to a new and peculiar genus of lizards, with the head and parts of 

 the body covered with thick, higlily ornamented bony plates, and 

 hence the generic name Glyptosaurus was proposed. The teeth 

 were pleurodont, and in some of the species, at least, short and 

 obtuse. The vertebrre resembled those of Varanus, and the species 

 discovered appear to all have had long tails. Four species were 

 described which could readily be distinguished bj^ the form and 

 ornamentation of the cranial plates, and some of them by other 

 characters. G. .v/Ioesfri^, about four feet in length, had thin, 

 nearl}^ flat, cranial shields, with small irregular tubercles, and 

 articular ventral scutes of the same general pattern. G. nodosus, 

 about three feet long, had more convex cranial plates and thicker 

 frontals. G. ocellafus, at least four feet long, had very thick 

 articular plates, with the tubercles arranged concentricall3% A 

 much smaller species, probably two feet in length, and perhaps 

 genericallj' distinct, was indicated by a number of vertebrae, and 

 jaws, and possibly by some scutes. This was called G. anceps. 



In addition to the reptilian fossils. Professor Marsh exhibited a 

 number of fish remains which were found in the same fresh-water 

 Tertiary basin in Wyoming. Among these were numerous ver- 

 tebrae and cranial bones, evidentlj^ belonging to the genus Amia, 

 and indicating two species about the size of the modern A. calva. 

 One of tliese species, which had the pit of the articular depression 

 in the dorsal vertebrae considerably above the centre, was named 

 Amia Netoherinanus. The other species had vertebra more nearly 

 like the living Amia, but broader, and without the median groove 

 on the lower surface of the centrum. This was called Amia de- 

 jyressus. In the same beds with these specimens numerous other 

 fish remains were discovered, which clearly represented the genus 

 Lejndosfeus, and indicated two species, both having smooth scales, 

 and about the same size as the modern gar-pike. One of these 

 fossil species, which had unusually short vertebrte, was named 

 Lepidosteus glaber. The second species, with proportionally 

 longer vertebrae, was called L. Whitneyi. All the specimens ex- 

 hibited belong to the Yale College Museum, and will soon be 

 described in full, by Professor Marsh, in the American Journal 

 of Science. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — 

 1871.] PARTI.— 8 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



MORPHOLOGY OF CARPEILARY SCALES IN LAEIX. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



The facts which I have from time to time contributed, verbally 

 or in papers, to the Academy, in regard to longitudinal series of 

 axillary buds, and adnated and free leaves in coniferous plants, 

 will, I believe explain something of the structure of the flowers 

 of coniferse, which, if not quite distinct from any view before taken, 

 will at least have reached the conclusion by an original line of 

 argument. 



I have shown that in the cases where there are longitudinal series 

 of buds, one of the buds, and generally the upper supra-axillary 

 one, is the largest. So far as this longitudinal series of buds is 

 concerned, I find by extensive observation that there are very 

 few of our American trees or shrubs which do not produce them 

 under some circumstances, although they are more generally 

 apparent in some than in others. In many cases they do not 

 break quite through the cortical la3'er, but continue to grow from 

 year to year, just as the wood grows, always remaining just 

 under the outer bark. It is from these concealed but living buds 

 that the flowers of the Cercis. or the spines of Gleditschia, will 

 often appear from trunks many years old. In Magnolia and 

 Liriodendron these concealed buds are easily detected b^^ a thin 

 shave of the outer bark with a sharp knife. In very vigorous 

 shoots of the latter, a series of two — one supra-axillary — is not 

 rarely found prominently above the bark. In many cases one of 

 these buds, usually the lower, and really axillary one, never 

 pushes into growth. In Gymnocladus neither upper nor lower 

 would probably ever push, onl}^ for the fact that it matures no 

 terminal bud, and thus the laterals have to renew the next 

 season's growth. But for this, Gymnocladus would go up like a 

 palm, or, more familiarly, as Ar'alia spinosa does, without a 

 single branch. Failing in the terminal, but two laterals push, 

 giving the branches their dichotoraous character. The two which 

 push are always the upper ones in the series of 2, 3, or 4, which 

 appear in this species. 



The purpose of this duplication of axillary buds will interest 



[July 11 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lOt 



all who studj^ this part of Botaii}-. I find that the^^ are not for 

 the duplicatiou of parts, but are separately organized from one 

 another. Thus, in Gratgxus and Gleditschia, the upper bud pro- 

 duces a spine, the slower is organized to grow as an axillary shoot 

 the next season. But the best illustration of the distinctive 

 organization is in those cases where both upper and lower buds 

 sometimes push the same season, as in Ifea, Lonicera^CaprifoKum, 

 or Halesia. Here we find that one is organized for floral organs, 

 and the other for axillary prolongation. The upper bud always 

 has the same function, and the lower its own, in the same species. 



A flower being a modified branch, in which the bract is the leaf 

 and the peduncle the axillary bud, it follows that the laws of 

 axillary stem-production will be more or less reproduced in the 

 inflorescence. 



Referring now to my paper on Adnation in Goniferse^ we found 

 that the true leaves of many genera in this order were adnate to 

 the stem, forming what some botanists have termed pulmni^ or 

 cushions, under the fascicles of some species of Pimis, and that 

 what are commonly called leaves, the " needles," are really phyl- 

 loidal shoots. An examination of Abies excelsa will show that 

 the upper portion of the needle has a different origin from the 

 lower adnated portion, or pulvinus, and that in all probability it is 

 a modification of the phenomenon referred to in Gymnocladus, 

 and other plants, of a longitudinal string of buds, in which the 

 upper is of a diff'erent organization to the lower one. In Larix 

 it was shown that in the verticils, or perhaps more properl}' spurs or 

 clusters, the true leaves were free, while in the elongated axis they 

 became for most of their length adnate with the stem, forming the 

 spathulate scales we find peel off" the two-3'ear-old wood. 



At the flowering time of the Larch, the male and female flowers 

 proceed from the termination of the spurs — not merely "of the 

 preceding year," according to Graifs llanual, but in some cases 

 of many preceding j^ears, " the sterile from leafless buds, the fertile 

 mostly with leaves below." (Gray^s llanuaJ, 5th ed., p. 472.) Why 

 have the female flowers leaves under them, and the male none? 

 Comparing the male and the female catkins, we see why. The scales 

 of the male are formed out of the leaves which become full}^ formed 

 in the female one. The pair of anther cells are thus simply on the 

 back of a transformed leaf, just as we find the spore-eases of ferns 

 borne in the same way. The weaker organization which I have 

 1871.] 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



shown in my paper, and communications on sex, permits no fiirtlaer 

 development here. Bnt in the case of the female flower the leaf 

 maintains a separate organization all through the catkin or cone; 

 and, as shown in my paper on the Stijndes of Magnolia^ the midrib 

 of the leaf shortens, and, assuming a stipular character, increases 

 in width, until we have the purple bractea so well known in Larix. 

 As soon as these bractea have been arrested in their development, 

 the carpellaiy scales, wiiich answer to the phylloidal fascicles of 

 Pinus, commence their growth in most species of Larch, finally 

 equalling the bracts in length. 



Whether or not the ovules which appear in the axis of the car- 

 pellary scales again result from a third longitudinal bud, I have 

 no evidence ; what I have proposed to myself in this paper is 

 simply to show that the scales in the male catkin of Larix are modi- 

 fied true leaves; ivhile in the female they arise from buds of 

 another organization, being the morphologized secondary leaves, or 

 phylloidal shoots as I term them, of other coniferous genera. 



[July 11, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



May 2. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited some flowers of the 31agnoIia 

 jnijyurea, which were much curved toward the apex, and said tliat 

 this curvature was always towards the north when the flowers 

 opened in the full sun. This had alwaj's been a subject of specu- 

 lation witli him, as the tendency of growing vegetation was 

 usuall}^ towards the south, or towards the greatest source of light. 

 This season he has had the opportunity of examining man}- hun- 

 dred, and almost all were due north ; a few were either a little 

 west or east of north. The plants bearing these flowers were low, 

 and the sun had full power on all the opening blossoms. That 

 this northern tendency of the curve was, however, due to the sun, 

 was evident from the fact that when growing under the shade of 

 trees, the flowers of this plant were perpendicular, and of uniform 

 growth all round. 



This season he believed he had found the explanation. He ob- 

 served the same curving towards the north in the expanding male 

 catkins of Salix caprea. These, so long as elongation continued, 

 were perpendicular; when this ceased, the stamens developed first 

 on the warmest side, the side next the sun. The growth of these 

 expanding stamens was very rapid ; and he had observed that this 

 growth not only was towards the light, but the growing parts had 

 the power of drawing part of the axis to ivJiich itivas attached ivith 

 it. A ver}' small rise in the temperature was sufficient to excite 

 growth in the willow, and the diflerence between the sun striking 

 against the south side of the catkin, and the heat which could lie 

 commanded by the north side, made a diff"erence of several daj-s 

 in the expansion of the stamens on the respective sides. Some- 

 times a catkin would be formed on the north side of the plant, in 

 the shade of the tree, in which case the most heat cominir from 

 the north, that side of the catkin would expand its stamens first, 

 but slowly. In this case there would be a slight curve towards 

 the south. In the case of curved catkins, the curve was alwaj's 

 greatest after a hot burst of sun, when the stamens grew most 

 rapidly. When the northern side developed, the axis curved back 

 again, so that the ultimate direction was perpendicular, as it was 

 in the beoinnins:. 



The growth of the flower of magnolia being comparatively 

 slower, did not furnish the same evidence in detail ; but the results 

 were the same, and no doubt were influenced by the same law. The 

 flowers curved to the north while expanding ; but after a few da^'s 

 of full opening the north side caught up, and the flowers were 

 1871.] 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



finally erect, as in tlic case of the willow catkin. He thought we 

 might safely conclude from these facts that vegetation not only 

 grew towards the light, but exercised at the same time a lifting 

 ibrce which we had not before recognized. 



He believed no explanation had ever been given that was 

 generally accepted as to the curving of many kinds of pine-cones. 

 Possibly the facts now offered might furnish the ke3\ 



Mr. Meehan then exhibited some expanding buds of Fraxinua 

 qjiadravgulata^aud showed that the}^ had no bud-scales as other 

 species of ash had. These other species had two pairs, the outer 

 broad and somewhat thin, and which underwent little change in 

 spring ; the other and inner often grew into a short succulent sub- 

 petiole. In the F. quadranrjxdata^ at the termination of its full 

 growth, instead of the usual broad scales, there were but minute 

 black specks, whi(;h in the spring grew out into fully developed 

 leaves. The buds of this species of ash were, therefore, "naked" 

 buds. He had under his observation only one tree of this kind; 

 but he took it lor granted it was the usual condition of other trees 

 of the species. 



On his grounds were man}' hundred of Fraxinus excelsior, and 

 lie noted this season a large number of them, of whieh he exhi- 

 bited specimens, that had the same characteristic buds as in the F. 

 quadrangulata. Examining further, he found that in all cases of 

 this kind the buds terminated second growths of last year. In 

 all other cases, where the normal solitary cycle of growth was all 

 that was made, the usual broad bud-scales were present. Thus 

 we arrived at the important conclusion that a law which operated 

 with sufficient uniformit}^ in the case of F. quadrangulata to con- 

 stitute a specific character, existed onlj- in special cases in another 

 species. What that law is, he thought 3'et unknown. To most 

 persons it Avould be a sufficient answer to say, it was the late 

 second growth which caused the non-development of true bud-scales 

 in the case of the F. excelsior ; but, remembering the case of i^. 

 quadrangulata, where the same facts existed without the second 

 growth, we could onl}- say that tliis circumstance merely aided 

 the action of a law, which could operate without it. 



He suggested that the science of botany had suff'ered from the 

 too hasty assumption of explanation of facts. For instance, it 

 was taught in our best text-books that the " office of bud-scales 

 was to protect the tender parts beneath." It would strike any 

 one at once that it ought to be as necessar}' for F. quadrangulata 

 to have this protection as F. excelsior ; but not ox\\y this, but 

 here we have the fact of F. excelsior getting through the winter 

 as well without as with them, and that, too, on the secondary, 

 and as man}- would suppose more immature, growth. 



Mr. Meehan further referred to a paper which he contributed to 

 the " Proceedings" of the Academy last fall, on the floAvers of 

 Ambrosia artemisiaefolia, in which he showed tliat the horns of the 



[July 11 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



achenia were but the remains of other flowers which had been 

 absorbed by the central and stronger one in an earl}' stage of their 

 existence, and b}- this adnation had become an integral part of the 

 structure of the flower. 



He had now to exhibit to the Academy a small plant of this 

 species, which had grown in a pot in his hot-house during winter, 

 and which was in floAver, and not onl}- exhibited this fact better than 

 the specimens he had brought to the notice of members last 3'ear, 

 but also presented some other very remarkable phenomena. Here 

 was a regular gradation of true horns down to an entire separation 

 from the central achenium, in which case these detached horns bore 

 the usual twin pistils, or rather elongated stigmas. But what was 

 remarkable in this case was that beneath all these normal and 

 abnormal pericarpia some small bulbels issued from the stem, 

 and these also had stigmas more or less perfectly developed. 



The whole plant, he observed, was in many respects a curiosity, 

 which would rival the art-produced Japanese dwarf. Here was a 

 plant a little over an inch in height, which, at the second node above 

 the cotyledons, commenced to produce female flowers. There were 

 no male flowers. Indeed, it was not impaired nutrition which 

 gave it its dwarf character, for the soil in which it was growing 

 was very rich, and the bright green color of the plant was opposed 

 to all idea of starvation. 



Another sug-o-estion occurred to him in connection with the little 

 plant exhibited. The ambrosia was the common rag-weed of our 

 cultivated ground. When such plots of ground were put down 

 into grass, no more of this weed appeared; j'et, though this gronnd 

 remained in sod an unlimited number of 3'ears, when broken up the 

 ambrosia always appeared in immense numbers. Though we know 

 that the seeds of this weed, preserved as ordinary garden-seeds 

 are, will only live a season at best, j^et all farmers and many good 

 botanists believe that the plants spring from seeds of the crop 

 which ripened many years before, and which have retained their 

 vitality through all the period. But if such pigmy plants as these 

 can perfect their seeds, we see at once how hundreds can exist 

 amongst the grass and other vegetation, thus perfecting seeds and 

 perpetuating themselves year after year successively, full}' ac- 

 counting for the appearance of plants on the subsequent breaking 

 up of the sod, without resorting to a mere imaginary theory of 

 wonderful vitality. 



Mr. Gentry directed attention to the fact that Alyssum calyci- 

 num, Lin., a native of Europe, was growing abundantly' on the 

 western side of the Mt. Airy water-works, near the city, where it 

 appears to have permanently established itself. 



1871.] 




112 proceedings of the academy of 



May 9. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The following paper was offered for publication : — 



" Notes on the Natural History of Fort Macon. No. 2." By 

 Elliott Coues. 



Prof. Leidy said that he had just received, from its author, 

 Mr. Mason, a copy of an abstract from the proceedings of the 

 Asiatic Society of Bengal, for June, 1811, giving an account of a 

 case of polydactylism in a horse from Bagdad. In this case the 

 usual " splint-like rudiments of the metacarpals of the fourth toe 

 in the fore feet had given rise to an additional toe provided with 

 three phalanges, of which the last is incased in a hoof." A pre- 

 paration of the foot of a horse, preserved in the Museum of the 

 Universit}'^ of Pennsylvania, exhibits a similar condition. The 

 abnormally developed metacarj^al has the toe with two phalanges, 

 of which the last is inclosed in an irregular hoof. If there were a 

 corresponding development of the metacarpal on the other side 

 of the preparation, the foot would represent the normal condition 

 of the tertiary horse Hipparion. If both outer toes were still 

 better developed in relation with the intermediate one, the foot 

 would represent the condition of the earlier tertiary horse Anchi- 

 therium. 



Prof. Cope demonstrated some anatomical points of import- 

 ance in the classification of some of the Siluroids of the Amazon, 

 noticing first those which have no swimming-bladder, but having 

 the post-temporal bone pierced in a sieve-like manner, forming 

 minute tympana; these he characterized as '■'■ OtocinclusJ^ 



Others having huge swim-bladders, gun-boat style of shape. 

 No adipose fin ; the back naked. No lyre plate ; indicated as 

 ^^ Zathorax.'' 



A 3d, body protected by bonj' shields above. No adipose fin ; 

 the scapular arch dermoossified and lyre-shaped below ; indicated 

 as ^''PJujsopyxis Jyra.'" 



A 4th, shielded all over its sides, with the under lip turned 

 back, genus '■'■ Corydoras.^^ 



A 5th, where the under lip is separated, except at the ends, 

 forming loops, named ^'■Jjrochis.^' 



In the Gtb, Avhere the lips are separated from the beard distally 

 forming chin beards, indicated as '■'• Dianema.''^ 



Lieutenant Dutton remarked that the persistence and con- 

 stancy of specific characters, while generic features were under- 

 going change, was admirabl}- illustrated in some of the genera of 

 Brachiopoda in the Silurian and Devonian. These genera are 



[July 11, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 113 



very numerous and very abundant in species, and seem to exem- 

 plify tlie views of Prof. Cope in a remarkable manner. Take, for 

 instance, the Ortbis family, one of the most common and prolific 

 both in respect to individuals and species. In this family are five 

 or six -well-marked genera, and yet the specific characters, so far 

 as they are discernible in the hard parts, are often quite identi- 

 cal in species of different genera ; and though they have often 

 varied, yet sufficient constancy is maintained to deceive any care- 

 less investigator, and to give the idea of specific identit}-. It is 

 fairly to be inferred from a study of this class of fossils that 

 generic and perhaps higher characters may change very rapidly, 

 "while specific ones are changing but slowly, nor remaining con- 

 stant. 



May 16. 

 Dr. Carson, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twentj^-three members present. 



Remains of Ilastodon and Horse in North Carolina. — Prof. 

 Leidy exhibited two photographs, received from Prof. W. C. Kerr, 

 State Geologist of North Carolina, representing some remains of 

 Mastodon americanus found in that State. One of the specimens 

 represented is that of the greater part of the lower jaw of a mature 

 male, retaining both incisor tusks and the last two molar teeth. 

 The latter, with their angular lobes separated hy deep angular 

 and nearly unobstructed valleys, are quite characteristic of the 

 species. The incisors are an inch and three-fourths in diameter. 

 The last molar has four transverse pairs of lobes and a well- 

 developed heel. The penultimate molar has three transverse pairs 

 of lobes. The specimen was obtained from gravel overlj-ing the 

 miocene marl near Goldsboro', Lenoir Co., N. C. An isolated last 

 lower molar of the same species, represented in companj^ with the 

 jaw, was obtained in Pitt Co. 



Prof. Leidy also exhibited a specimen of an upper molar tooth, 

 which Mr. Timothy Conrad had picked up from a pile of miocene 

 marl at Greenville, Pitt Co., N. C. He suspected, from its size 

 and intricacy in the folding of the enamel of the islets at the 

 middle of the triturating surface, that the tooth belonged to the 

 post-pliocene Equus complicatus, and was an accidental occupant 

 of the miocene marl. It may, however, belong to a Hipparion of 

 the miocene period, but the imperfection of the specimen at its 

 inner part prevented its positive generic determination. 



Remains of Extinct Mammals from Wyoming. — Prof. Leidy 

 then directed attention to what he regarded as one of the most 

 remarkable fossils which had yet been discovered in our western 



1871.] 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



territories. The specimen consists of tlie greater portion of the 

 lower jaw of a pachyderm from the Bridger tertiary formation, 

 probably eocene, of AVyoming. It was discovered by Dr. J. Van 

 A. Carter, of Fort Bridger, in the vicinity of that place. In the 

 same localit}^ were also found remains of PalseosyojJS paludosus^ 

 and the curious turtle Anosteira ornata. 



The jaw belonged to an old individual, as indicated by the 

 worn condition of the molar teeth ; and the animal to which it 

 pertained was about the size of the larger Peccary. The jaw, 

 howevei", is of much more robust character than in the latter. 

 The two rami are completel^^ coossified at the symphysis, as in 

 recent pach^'derms. The chin, or forepart of the jaw, resembles 

 in its broad slope the corresponding part in the Rhinoceros or 

 Peccary, but is convergent as in the Beaver or other rodent. 



The forepart of the jaw is occupied by two large teeth, the 

 features of which are such that at first glance one would think we 

 had before us a portion of the skeleton of some huge representative 

 of the order of Rodentia. The two teeth curve upward and for- 

 ward in the same manner as in the latter, but are separated by a 

 decided interval, which at the edge exhibits alveoli for a pair of 

 small incisors. Hence the number of incisors appears to be four, 

 and the large teeth are to be regarded as the lateral pair. These 

 do not extend backward in their alveoli further than the position 

 of the premolars, and in this respect differ widely from the condi- 

 tion of the Beaver and other rodents. 



The form and construction of the incisors are wonderfully like in 

 the latter animals. As in these, their forepart alone is invested with 

 enamel, which is quite thick. They are, however, decidedly convex 

 in front, and not nearly' flat, as usual in rodents. They have been 

 worn oft' in a sloping manner, not only as in these, but also later- 

 ally, so that it would appear the corresponding upper teeth were 

 more divergent than the lower ones, or held a position related 

 Avith one another resembling the condition in the peccaries and 

 hogs, rather than in the rodents. 



Unless the laroe teeth described are to be res^arded as canines, 

 instead of incisors, thej' were absent, as in the Rhinoceros and 

 Mastodon. 



The fossil exhibits evidences of the existence of six molar teeth, 

 and there may have been a seventh in the series, but this is not 

 obvious in the specimen. The molars extended close to the posi- 

 tion of the large incisors, leaving no hiatus like that in Rhinoceros, 

 Mastodon, and the rodents, or like that in the Peccaries back of 

 the canines. 



Nearl}^ all the molars have been lost in the fossil, the imperfect 

 crown of the second true molar and part of that of the first alone 

 being preserved. The base of the crown of the last of the series 

 indicates a fore and aft three-lobed tooth, as in Palaeotsyops, 

 Titanotherium, and Palseotherium. 



The crown of the second molar is much worn, but in the entire 



[July 11, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



condition appears to have had neavl}^ the same construction as in 

 the genera just named. It was indeed suspected from the form of 

 this tooth that the jaw belonged to Palasosi/ops, but to a smaller- 

 species than P. 2MludoHiis, the forepart of the jaws of which have 

 not been discovered. The bottom of the S3anphjsis of the jaw 

 under examination reaches as far back as the position of the first 

 true molar, but in a fragment of PalseoHijoj-jspaludoms is seen not 

 to extend as far as the last premolar. Other differences in the 

 corresponding portions of the jaw indicate the animals to belong 

 to different genera. 



For the curious pachj^derm, first brought to our notice by Dr. 

 Carter, the name of Trogosus castoridens, or the Beaver-toothed 

 Gnawing-hog, was proposed. 



The fossil brings to our view an animal which would appear to 

 have pertained to the stock from which diverged the Rhinoceros 

 and Mastodon, the Peccar}^, and perhaps the Beaver. 



Measurements of the fossil are as follows: Length of jaw from 

 back of last molar to fore edge of symphysis, 4 inches 10 lines ; 

 depth of jaw below true molars, 1 inch 8 lines ; depth of sym- 

 physis, 2 inches 8 lines ; thickness of jaw above base, 10 lines; 

 length of molar series from position of large incisors, 4 inches ; 

 length of true molar series, 2 inches 7 lines; space between large 

 lateral incisors, 4 lines ; fore and aft diameter of large incisors, 

 9^ lines ; transverse diameter of the same, 6 lines. 



Another interesting fossil, discovered by Dr. J. Van A. Carter 

 in the same locality as the former, is the portion of the ramus of 

 a jaw of a carnivorous animal about the size of the Gray Fox. The 

 specimen contains two teeth, apparently the last premolar and 

 the sectorial molar, behind which are portions of two other teeth. 



The last premolar is larger than in the Gray Fox, and is larger 

 than the succeeding tooth, being both wider and higher. The 

 principal cusp exhiliits a feeble deuticle in comparison with that 

 on the back border in the Graj^ Fox. The heel of the crown is 

 proportionately better developed than in the latter, and presents a 

 fore and aft acute edge, from which the sides slope to the basal 

 ridge. 



The carnassial tooth is less in size than the tooth in advance. 

 The crown has the same general form as in the corresponding 

 tooth of the Foxes and Weasels. The forepart or sectorial por- 

 tion of the crown is less well developed than in the Fox, and the 

 inner cusp is half as large as the principal one. The notch of the 

 sectorial border does not end in a cleft, as in the Fox. The heel 

 or back portion of the crown is nearly half the breadth of the 

 latter, and it includes a concavity bordered by a horseshoe-like 

 ridge, as in the Weasels. 



The next tooth is rather larger than the one described, and is 

 inserted by two fangs. The forej^art of the crown is broken away ; 

 the back part has the same form as in the tooth in advance. This 

 may also have been a carnassial tooth. 

 1871.] 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACABEMY OP 



The last tooth, the smallest of those in the jaw specimen, was 

 also inserted by a pair of fangs. Its crown is broken away. 



The animal indicated by the jaw fragment appears to liaA'e held 

 a position intermediate to the musteline and canine families. It 

 was proposed to name it Sinopa rapax, the former name, ac- 

 cording to Prof. Hayden, being that applied by the Blackfeet 

 Indians to a small Fox. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a specimen of Achillea mille- 

 folium, in which an underground stolon of an Agrostis had pene- 

 trated, and referred to a similar case, to which he had called the 

 attention of members last year, where a Triticum had penetrated 

 through large tubers of potatoes. He remarked at that time on the 

 peculiarity of the growing force of plants which would rather en- 

 deavor to push directl}^ through an obstruction, than turn to one 

 side out of its straight course. He thought the present instance still 

 more remarkable, as the living stem of Achillea was little thicker 

 than ordinary brown thread, ^^et the grass had cloven it directly 

 in halves in a manner we could scared}^ imitate with a needle. 



He then presented a quantity of sprouting peach-kernels, in 

 order to call attention to the great variety of form which existed 

 in the cotyledons. The most usual was ovate, the apex and base 

 both regularly tapering, but some were obtuse — occasionally 

 almost square — at the apex ; while others were so lengthened out 

 at the base as to give to the cotyledon a spathulate form. Others 

 were cordate at the base, some more with the base of the lobes 

 spurred, and others again which were simply gibbous on one side. 

 We were, he said, all familiar enough with the fact of great natural 

 variations in foliar and floral organs, but he believed no great 

 differences in cotyledons have been exhibited here. 



But he thought there prevailed a still greater interest in the 

 lobing of the separate cot^dedons. It was very common to find 

 some which had one of the cotyledons separated for one-third the 

 depth, some one-half, and occasionally two-thirds, and in some 

 cases both cotjdedons would be divided, so as to present the ap- 

 pearance of four perfect ones — that is, the two would be divided 

 almost down to what might be termed their petioles. Still more 

 intei'esting he thought the fact that, in one of the cases he exhibited, 

 another plumula had been formed in the angle of the divided coty- 

 ledons. It had been his opinion that in many plants cotyledons 

 were to be considered as modified axis, rather than modified leaf, 

 speaking according to the general idea of stem-structure, for he 

 inclined to the opinion that all axis originallj' is but modified 

 leaf — and in these cases it would seem as if the cotyledons had 

 started to make anotlier mode of growth, as a true stem axis 

 would do. 



In regard to the number of cotyledons, he thought a close ex- 

 amination might find it variable in many classes of plants. Mr. 

 Burk, of the Academy, liad called his attention to the fact that it 



[July 11, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. lit 



■was by no means uncommon for the common morning-glory 

 (Convolvulus piuyureus^ L.) to have three cotyledons. In Coni- 

 ferte the numerical variations were well known. 



Amongst the peach cotyledons was one in which the radicle, • 

 with nnmerous branching fibres, had pushed several inches be- 

 neath the integuments, and coiled themselves about the cot3de- 

 dons. The interest here was, that this had evidently taken place, 

 before the seed had quite finished its growth in the fall, as there 

 were grooves all along the surface of the cotyledons which indi- 

 cated that the}' had rather grown around the fibres, than that 

 the latter had forced their way through after the cotyledonous 

 growth had been completed. 



Mr. Meehan further exhibited two stalks of a Lilium candidum, 

 the common white lily, grown in a greenhouse by Mr. W. C. Strong, 

 of Brighton, Mass., which, instead of the usual flowers, had each 

 terminated in two large seal}' bulbs, one inch, and one and a half 

 inches in diameter, precisel}^ similar to those produced under 

 ground. In the ordinary growth of this lily, the spring leaves, 

 which started from the scales, were broadly ovate, not long and 

 narrow as the stem leaves were, and in these terminal stem- 

 bulbs the broad leaves terminated the scales in the same way, 

 giving the flower-stems a peculiar coronetted appearance. He 

 explained a difference in the bulblets we often find in some lilies, 

 and true bulbs, in this, that bulblets form in the axils of the 

 leaves ; and while the scales of the true bulb were simply dilated 

 and succulent leaf-stalks. They had no axillary buds visible. 

 These axillary buds were, however, really formed, but were ab- 

 sorbed by the leaf structure, as he had shown in past times was 

 the case in Cassia marilandica, when accounting for the gland 

 on the petiole of that plant In the case of the \i\y^ however, the 

 bud, though absorbed, did not wholly lose the power of develop- 

 ment, for though, if suffered to remain on the parent stem, scales, 

 absorbed buds and all, usually died away, yet if these scales were 

 removed so that the matter stored in them was not absorbed by 

 the growing flower-stem, the latent bud in the scale would develop 

 itself into a bulblet, which the next year would become a bulb of 

 the ordinar}' character. It was in this Avay that the lily was now 

 so extensively propagated by commercial florists. 



May 23. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " On the fishes of the Ambyiacu River." By Edw. D. Cope. 

 " Descriptions of new species of fossils from Ohio and other 

 western States and Territories." By F. B. Meek. 



" Contributions to Orthopterology." By Prof. C. Thomas. 



isn.] 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Prof. Letdy directed attention to some remains of PaldeoHyops, 

 recently received from Dr. Joseph K. Corso'n, U. S. A., who dis- 

 covered them at Grizzly Buttes, near Fort Bridger, Wyoming 

 Territory. They were more complete than those from which this 

 cnrious tapiroid animal was first characterized, and mainly consist 

 of portions of several lower jaws. 



The specimens exhibit teetli, and fragments and traces of others 

 indicating, at least, a series of six molars, which approached so 

 closely the position of a large canine tooth, as to indicate that 

 little or no hiatus existed between the former and the latter. The 

 back portion of the lawer jaw is broad and deep as in the Tapirs, 

 and a deep concavity occupies a position externallj'' in advance 

 and below that of the condyle. The body of the jaw is thick and 

 strong, with a thick convex base. The bottom of the symphj^sis 

 appears hardly to have reached the position of the anterior pre- 

 molar. 



The lower true molars are like those of the Palseotherium, An- 

 chifhermm, &c. The outer portion of the corresponding upper 

 molars likewise resembles that in the genera just named, but the 

 inner portion is different. The antero-internal lobe is a low cone 

 with a base expanding so as to occupy two-thirds the inner por- 

 tion of the crown. The postero-internal lobe is trilateral. The 

 last upper premolar has the crown composed of an outer pair of 

 conical lobes, and a single larger inner cone. The last lower pre- 

 molar is like the succeeding true molars. The lower penultimate 

 l^remolar has the anterior lobe of its crown proportionately more, 

 and the posterior lobe less, developed than in the succeeding teeth. 

 The series of the lower true molars measures 3J inches ; the depth 

 of the jaw below the interval of the second and last true molars 

 is 2| inches. The last lower molar measures 19 lines fore and 

 aft. The second upper true molar is 16^ lines transversely and 

 fore and aft. The last upper molar is about 19 lines fore and aft 

 at its outer part. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said he had recently observed that a 

 clasping motion when touched existed in the stigma of Torenia 

 asiatica, similar to that well known in the leaf of Dionsea musci- 

 pula. In this the stigma was cloven into two flat valves, which 

 were usually expanded and somewhat revolute; when it was 

 touched on its inner surface, the valves slowly closed together. 

 The motion could scarcely be perceived, on account of the small- 

 ness of the parts ; but it occupied in a total closing only about 

 thirty seconds. 



He also exhibited a branch of Gissus amazonica in which the ten- 

 dril, usually situated on the stem opposite to a leaf, was in one in- 

 stance on the other side, under the leaf, as if the leaf were axillary 

 to the tendril. He remarked that the best botanists did not seem 

 united in their opinions as to the correct morphology of the tendril 

 in vitaceous plants. He had supposed the basis of structure in this 



[July 11, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



order was that of opposite leaves, onl}' that on one side of the 

 node, instead of the opposite leaf and axillary bud, the whole had 

 been developed into a tendril, thus giving the api)earanee of an 

 alternate-leaved structure. This appeared the more probable as 

 the Phyllotaxis was in the half arrangement so common in oppo- 

 site-leaved plants. But the appearance of the tendril, as in this 

 case, could scarcely be deemed possible under this view, and it 

 might be that the tendril really belonged to the leaf S3'stem oppo- 

 site, as we saw it in Gucurbitaceee, Pasi^ijloracese, &c., only that 

 it had become twisted around on the opposite side. We saw this 

 tendency in Cucurbitaceae. Instead of being exactly over the leaf 

 axil as in Passifloracese, it was twisted so as to extend one-third the 

 way round the axis in Cucurbitacefe, and it might, therefore, get 

 half-way round in the grape-vine and other vitaceous plants. But 

 he simply made this as a suggestion. He thought that at any 

 rate the appearances of the tendril in this instance might be of 

 service to those who were stud^'ing the morphology of tendrils iu 

 this tribe of plants. 



The death of Mr. Stephen Morris was announced. 



May 30. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two members present. 



The report of the Biological and Microscopical Section for Jan- 

 uar}', February, March, and April was received. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : "Wm. Camp- 

 bell Gatzmer, and Samuel P. Wetherill. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : — 



isn.i 




120 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



NOTES ON THE NATUEAL HISTORY OF FORT MACON, N. C, AND 



VICINITY. (No. 2.) 



BY ELLIOTT COUES. 



As the identification of the Fishes and Insects that were col- 

 lected seems likely to be delayed, our "Notes" are continued^ with 

 lists of the Crustacea Decapoda, and of the Shells, mostly marine, 

 as well as of a few other marine Invertebrates. 



CRUSTACEA DECAPODA. 



The identifications of most of the species were made by Prof. 

 S. I. Smith, of the remainder by Dr. Wm. Stimpson. The ma- 

 jorit}' of tlie specimens referred to, including all those taken with 

 the dredge alone, were collected by Dr. A. S. Packard and myself. 



Libinia canaliculata. 



Dredged in various parts of the harbor, and found common 

 on Bird Shoals. ( Cf. Streets, these Proceedings, 1810, pp. 104-5.) 



Cancer irroratus, Say. 

 Beach and elsewhere. 



Menippe mercenaria. " Stone Crab." 



Common, and highly esteemed as an article of food. It is much 

 less generally distributed than, not so abundant as, the common 

 edible crab. 



Panopaeus berbstii, Edw. 



Panopaeus berbstii var. obesus. 

 Pilumnus aculeatus. 



A few specimens, dead on the beach. 

 Platyonycbus ocellatus, Latr. 



Dredged, and dead on the beach. 



Callinectes hastatus, Ordway. 



Exuviifi found in great numbers in shallow pools in the marsh, 

 middle of April. 



Acbelous spinimanus. 



' From p. 49 of tliese Proceedings for 1871. 



[July 1 1. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Achelous gibbsii. 

 Achelous depressifrons. 

 Arcnseus cribrarius, Dana. 



Sesaima reticulata, Say. 

 Sesaima cinerea, Say. 

 Gelasimus pugilator, Latr. 

 Gelasimus minaz, Lee. 

 Gelasimus pugnax, Smith. 



The fiddler crabs occur in immense numbers throughout the 

 marsh, and the muddier banks of the harbor. The three species 

 given above were taken together, and appear to associate indis- 

 criminately. They form a considerable part of the food of vari- 

 ous birds, especially the herons, rails, gulls, fishcrows, and grackles, 

 and many are destroyed by the larger crabs, as the Stone, and 

 the common edible species. They may be found at all seasons, 

 but are much more numerous during the warmer months than in 

 winter, when, however, some are seen abroad ; and they may 

 always be taken by digging into their holes. Of their numbers 

 one who has not seen them can form no adequate estimate : they 

 gather about decaying substances until the ground for several 

 square j^ards may be completely covered; and troops running 

 throuoh the scant herbage of the marsh make a rustlinc; sound 

 They doubtless exercise great influence upon the natural economy 

 of the localities they frequent, in devouring decomposing matters, 

 both vegetable and animal. They swim with ease, but in general 

 avoid the water, and appear to prefer rather dry and sandy places 

 to the heaviest mud. This preference is especially marked in the 

 selection of places for boring the holes ; this is done chiefly, I 

 think, during the night, at least I do not remember to have seen 

 the animals so engageel ; and frequently places I had walked over 

 the day before, when there had been no holes seen, were riddled 

 through in the morning. The holes average in diameter little 

 over half an inch, and look exactly as if launched by the end of 

 a walking-stick ; they are sunk at all angles with the surface, are 

 oftener tortuous than straight, and generally a foot, or less, deep. 

 Little piles of sand near the entrance show the fresher excava- 

 tions, as they are soon levelled b}^ natural causes. The tunnels are 



1871.] PART II.— 9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



probably at first the exclusive right of the individual digging 

 them, but the proprietorship is not observed, at least on an occa- 

 sion for alarm, when the crabs tumble promiscuously into the 

 nearest one, often with struggle for precedence ; and it is particu- 

 larl}'^ amusing to see some large individual, caught away from his 

 own habitation, stick in a hole too small for him, or try several 

 such in desperate hurry. I noticed that the animals went in 

 either side first with equal facility. Without alluding to what 

 may have been the specific characters used to separate the above 

 species, I should judge that specimens incontestably the same 

 varied indefinitely in coloration. The great claw of the larger 

 individuals is sufficiently strong to bring blood from the finger. 

 Although pretty active, they are much less swift-footed than the 

 next species, and may be easily captured by hand. The onl}"^ use 

 to which I knew of their being put, was to bait hooks for fish, for 

 which purpose they are well adapted, being greedily taken by 

 sheepshead, sea-trout, and other smaller kinds. 



Ocypode arenaria, Say. 



While the preceding kind is confined to the marsh and adjoin- 

 ing soil, the sand-crabs are equally restricted to the beach and the 

 clean dry sand of the dunes, there forming one of the most con- 

 spicuous features of the localit3^ Although they do not occur in 

 such immense numbers as the fiddlers, they are numerous enough 

 to act as efficient scavengers in their own territory; and, particu- 

 lai'ly during the summer months, hundreds ma}'^ be seen in a few 

 minutes' walk. At times they gather in troops of considerable 

 size, though never very closel}^ aggregated, and march together 

 to near the water's edge. Each one throws up a, little embank- 

 ment of sand or digs a slight pit for himself, and they all lie in 

 wait for their prey. When disturbed at such times they scamper 

 en masse into the surf, and such is their custom, also, whenever 

 caught too far away from home. But they are apparently not at 

 ease under water, and seek the first chance to creep safely out. 

 Whenever a shark or other large fish is rotting on the beach, they 

 fairly invest the carcass, encamping closely about it, and not 

 raising the siege as long as anything edible is left. I think their 

 holes, the mounds around which dot the neighboring sand, usually 

 or often connect with the meat under ground ; because in digging- 

 out remains of cetaceans, the crabs are often turned out with the 



[July 18, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 123 



spade. The holes are usually just large enough to admit the 

 hand a little way, and pass in every direction downwards ; may be 

 straight or tortuous, and from a few inches to a yard or more in 

 depth ; two or three feet ma}' he an average excavation. Usually 

 the sand is heaped up about the entrance, and forms quite a con- 

 spicuous mound. It is apparently simply pushed out in most 

 instances ; but in one instance that I examined with particular 

 care, this was not the case. The hole was in perfectly dry and 

 drifting sand, and all around, at varying distances, from a foot to 

 over a j^ard from the entrance, lay little separate piles of fresh 

 wet sand brought up from below ; a ditferent set of tracks leading 

 to each heap. This showed that the animal had repeatedly 

 brought up an armful of sand, and dumped it at some distance. 

 The holes, I may add, are almost invariably placed above ordinary 

 high-water mark, mostly in the flat dry shingle separating the 

 beach proper from the adjoining sand-drift dunes. A small pro- 

 portion of the crabs live in the sand-drifts still back of this, and a 

 few others come about the houses near the fort, digging in odd 

 corners, and to all intents and purposes replacing the house-rats. 

 Their remarkable swiftness of foot is well known ; and when 

 brought to bay, their pugilistic attitudes and actions are as 

 noticeable as is the sly cat-like aspect they present when crouching 

 closely, in hopes the intruder will pass them unnoticed, or in hang 

 in wait for prey. The large claws are of porcelain-like whiteness 

 and hardness, and capable of inflicting a wound not to be over- 

 looked in a moment ; but the general covering is so soft that the 

 animals are disabled, or even killed outright, by being simply 

 dropped upon the hard sand from the height of a man's head. 

 The young, which are at first spotted, and bear little resemblance 

 to the adults except in shape, begin to appear in the latter part 

 of April ; and they are an inch or more wide before they begin to 

 assume the general dull yellowish color of the adults. These 

 crabs are put to no use, except to afford excellent sport to boys 

 and boyish men, who bait them with their canine companions. 



Pinnotheres ostraeum. 



The oysters furnish the usual numbers. 



Persephona punctata. 



Common, on the sand-bars, &c. 



1871.] 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Hepatns decoris. 



Dredged, and found on the beach. 



Hepatus angustatus, White ? 



Hippa talpoides, Say. 



Very common, in sheltered portions of the sandy shore, the 

 sand-bars, clear tide pools, &c. They often gather in large num- 

 bers in the pools among the stone jutties along the beach, actively 

 swimming about in a manner that forcibly recalls the similar 

 sports of the Notonectes, and burying themselves in the sand with 

 remarkable speed. Females with eggs were taken early in May. 



Eupagurus pollicaris, Stimp. 

 Eupagurus longipes, Stimp. 



These two hermits are found in every locality about the harbor, 

 except it be, perhaps, along the open beach, and in the muddiest 

 parts of the marsh. They were dredged in the deepest portions 

 of the channel, and are numerous in the tide-pools along the shore 

 and on the sand-bars. The smaller species is much the most 

 abundant, and finds ample accommodation in Nassa obsoleta, of 

 which there are thousands dead everywhere, Littorina, and shells 

 of similar shape ; the other is usually taken in young Busycons, 

 Fasciolarise, and the Cancellaria reticulata. 



Palaemon vulgaris, Say. 



C? Palsemonopsis carolinus.) 



Peneus braziliensis, Latr. 



The smaller shrimp I only noticed about the pools in the marsh, 

 "where it is extremely abundant. It is not, to my knowledge, used 

 in this locality, as the other fi-equently is. The latter occurs in 

 great numbers along the inner shores of the harbor and about 

 the sand-bars, and more sparingly in clearer parts of the marsh. 



Homarus americamis. 



One specimen was taken during the summer of 1870, the first I 

 ever heard of in this locality ; and it was a question whether it 

 had not been lost overboard from some vessel coming southward. 



[July 18, 




natural sciences op philadelphia. 125 



Entomostraca. 

 limulus polyphemus.' 



Common, but much less abundant than further north. It may- 

 be taken at any season, but is especially numex'ous in May, when 

 it resorts to the shoal water about the harbor to spawn. About 

 the middle of this month hundreds were noticed on Bird Shoal, 

 these mostly copulating or seeking to do so ; and all the females 

 examined were laden with eggs. One specimen taken presented 

 a curious monstrosity, having the tail bifurcated at the extremity 

 for over an inch. One of the forks was rather smaller than the 

 other, and stood out more obliquely from what appeared to be the 

 proper termination. 



CiRRHIPEDIA. 

 Ealanus eburneus? 



In profusion, on all hard submerged objects. 

 Two other species of cirrhipeds occur, chiefly, it would appear, 

 on wood, &c., that has floated from some distance southward. 



ANNUL AT A. 



BRACHI0P0DA.2 

 Lingula pyramidata, Stimp. 



This animal can be procured in any desired numbers, with little 

 trouble, in a particular part of the harbor. After numerous trials, 

 the best place was found to be the southern side of Bird Shoals 

 (side next the fort), and in a straight line between the flagstaff 

 upon the fort and the large building at the eastern extremity of 



' On the development of this animal, see Lockwood, S., "A Contribution 

 to the Natural History of the King Crab," read October, 1869, N. Y. Lye. 

 Nat. Hist.; and " The Horse-Foot Crab," Am. Nat., IV., July,- 1870, p. 357 ; 

 and A. S. Packard, jr., abstract of a paper read before the 19th meeting of 

 the A. A. A. S. in the Am. Nat., IV., October, 1870, p. 468. 



2 Mr. E. S. Morse's discussions of the position and relations of the group, 

 as "a division o{ Annelida,'''' which have attracted so much attention, will 

 be found in the Am. Nat., IV., July, 1870, p. 314; Am. Journ. Sc. and 

 Arts., 1870, (abstract from Pr. Bost. Soc. N. H.) ; Am. Nat., IV., Oct. 1870, 

 p. 493 (abstract from Proc. of 19th Meeting of A. A. A. S). An abstract 

 of a paper by W. H. Dall in the same number of Nat., p. 510, gives an op- 

 posite view of the case. Prof. W. C. Kerr (abstract of a paper in Am. 

 I(at., Nov. 1870, p. 571) ascribes the origin of theCarolina phosphates to 

 Lifigula. 

 1871.] 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the town of Beaufort. This is a solid and apparently nearly sta- 

 tionary part of the shoals, where the sand is somewhat packed and 

 matted with a scant growth of some marine grass. No specimens 

 whatever were found, although carefully sought for, in more ex- 

 posed and shifting parts. As the shoal is flooded over with two 

 or three feet of water at high tide, and the animal lives only 

 about at or below low-water mark, it can be gathered only 

 during an hour or two when the tide is fully out. They will be 

 found a few inches below the surface, and may readily be pro- 

 cured by the expedient devised by Mr. Morse, of digging up spade- 

 fuls of sand, and sifting it through a coarse sieve held partly 

 under water. It will be found most convenient to wade into the 

 water where it is a foot or less deep, and dig there, as there is then 

 no necessity of carrjdng the sieve back and forth. In this way 

 Mr. Morse, Dr. Packard, and myself once procured over fifty in 

 about an hour, and I several times took twentj^ or thirty in the 

 same time. They should be carefully picked out from the stems 

 and roots of the grass in which they are found entangled after 

 sifting, and placed in a basin or bottle of water with some clean 

 sand, where they may be kept alive for an indefinite length of time. 

 Mr. Morse wrote me that all the specimens he took north in May, 

 were alive several months subsequently. Other interesting speci- 

 mens may be procured along with the Lingulas, in the same way ; 

 as numerous tubicolous worms, an ophiurau, Benilla, and the rare 

 and highly prized Branchiostoma. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



I have not the means of identifying the'following species, and 

 merely presume that the names may be correct, from the circum- 

 stance of their occurring in Kurtz's list. 



Octopus granulatus, Lam. 



One specimen, measuring about thi'ee feet across the tentacles, 

 was brought to me in winter by some fishermen, who considered 

 it a rarity. 



Loligo brevipinna, Lesueur. 



Rather common ; several specimens obtained at diflferent sea- 

 sous. 



The collection of Marine Shells was referred to Sanderson 

 Smith, Esq., for determination ; and the names in the following 



[July 18, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 12t 



list, with a few exceptions, rest upon his identifications of the 

 specimens. His critical observations are introduced between quo- 

 tation marks. My own notes, though mei'ely those of a collector, 

 may prove of some use to future observers in this localit}'; their 

 general accuracy is believed to be unquestionable. 



In May, 18t0, Dr. Packard and Prof. Moi'se visited Fort Macon, 

 bringing a dredge ; and all the species exclusively obtained with 

 its use are among the results of our joint collecting. 



The list is restricted to the species actually collected, and con- 

 tains a few not previously recorded from this locality. 



I cannot do better than to reproduce in this connection a part 

 of the prefatory remarks in Dr. Stimpson's article.^ 



" The vicinity of Cape Hatteras, the most projecting point of 

 our coast south of New York, has peculiar interest to the student 

 of zoolog}'. This Cape, which divides the Areniferous region 

 into two nearly equal parts, the Virginian and Carolinian pro- 

 vinces, is remarkable for the exhibition of a fauna more tropical 

 in character than that of either of these provinces. * * This is an 

 evident result of its proximity to the gulf stream, the warm waters 

 of which are even said to be deflected directly upon the cape after 

 violent southeast gales. 



" * * The harbor of Beaufort is situated at one of the southern 

 outlets of Pamlico Sound, where it joins Bogue Sound. It is 

 shallow, and much obstructed by extensive shoals. * * The bot- 

 tom is generally sand3% but that of the deeper channels is shelly, 

 and that of the shallower channels often muddy. Outside the 

 harbor, and off the coast, the depth never exceeds eight fathoms 

 within a few miles of the laud, with a variable bottom, sometimes 

 'sticky' or clayey. * * In following the beaches, we observed a 

 decided increase of the tropical character as we proceeded east- 

 ward toward the Cape. 



" Geologists will be interested to notice the occurrence of several 

 species hitherto only known as Tertiary fossils, such as species of 

 Axineea, Lucina, Astarte, Amphidesma, Tellidora, Myalina, Pano- 

 paea, Entails, and Colurnbella. These were found either alive or 

 in such condition as showed them to be recent shells, which would 

 doubtless have been found alive upon further search. The occur- 

 rence of Myalina subovata is interesting, although our specimens 



' American Journal of Science, May, 1860. 

 1871.] 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



of this species, as of Amphidesma consfricta, are not certainly- 

 recent, being only single valves. Of the beautiful Tellidora lunii- 

 lata we obtained several living examples, some attaining a length 

 of nearlj'^ two inches. Among the shells of a tropical character 

 several species will be noticed which have not hitherto been found 

 north of the West Indies, and do not exist upon the South Caro- 

 lina coast." 



Beaufort, Fort Macon, and the Morehead Depot are nearly 

 equidistant, and about two miles from each other. Vessels 

 of ordinary tonnage reach Morehead by the nearly direct ship- 

 channel, but none larger than schooners of the lightest di'aught 

 can reach Beaufort, between which and Fort Macon lies a small 

 island. The entrance to the harbor is comparatively narrow ; and 

 as a large body of water passes through it twice a day, the cur- 

 rent in the main channel is strong. This sweeps sharpl}'^. close past 

 the projecting extremity of Bogue Banks, but its erosive action 

 seems to be about counterbalanced by that of the S. to W. winds 

 which almost constantly prevail, depositing sand as fast as it is 

 removed. I can account only in this way for the permanence of 

 this, the most exposed point in the harbor. The waters that 

 pass through the main outlet are collected from several widely 

 separated directions from E. through N. to W. ; and this is one 

 evident cause of the numerous shoals that now obstruct the har- 

 bor, deflecting the different currents, and increasing as well as 

 continually varying their conflict with each other. As a result, 

 the hj'drography of the harbor is notably inconstant, and surveys 

 can be relied on in detail only for comparatively short periods. 

 The channels and minor water-lines are especially susceptible of 

 change, because the land consists almost entirely of loose sand. 

 No better illustration of general instability is required, than the 

 present condition and situation of what was once the site of Foi't 

 Hamilton ; now a slight shoal indicated b}^ breakers between Fort 

 Macon and the western point of Shackleford, nearly a mile from 

 the present Fort. This last has only been preserved from the en- 

 croachment of the sea, which once washed the base of the glacis, 

 by a system of stone breakwaters laid down on the outer beach, 

 which have carried the water-line outward one or two hundred 

 yards. Details of the contour of the beach change noticeably 

 with every considerable storm; and within the harbor, the shoals 

 have very perceptibly varied in extent and shape during the short 



[July 18, 




k 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



time they have been under my observation. Bird Shoals, the 

 most extensive of these, is believed to be now cuttino; in two ; 

 and it will probably in time form two islands, covered with vege- 

 tation, like the "town marsh," above mentioned as now lying be- 

 tween Beaufort and Fort Macon. A current directly across it, in 

 a line from Beaufort to the point of Shackleford, is already per- 

 ceptible during a part of each tide. 



The formation of the long, narrow islands that girt so large a 

 portion of the southern coast, is excellently shown here. Along 

 a considerable part of Shackleford and Bogue Banks the loose 

 sand is blown by the prevailing off-sea winds, and heaped up to 

 such extent, in some places, as to bury trees twenty feet high. 

 At other points the reverse action of the elements is witnessed, 

 in the stumps of trees, apparently cedars, that are denuded at 

 low tide. 



The general character of the shells that are so abundantly 

 strewn on the outer beaches, may be gathered from the list; of 

 these, as distinguished from those not likel^^ to be procured except 

 by dredging, the list is believed to contain very neai'ly all ; the 

 exceptions being chiefly such as only occur nearer Hatteras, al- 

 luded to in Dr. Stimpson's article. The abundance of fossil species 

 found on the beach, as the several Areas and others, is especially 

 noteworthy. I should judge that nearly half the number of indi- 

 vidual shells (not, of course, of the species) are not certainly 

 recent. In the harbor. Bird Shoals will be found the most fruit- 

 ful collecting-grounds when the dredge is not used. This is a 

 mile or so long, bj' half as wide, almost perfectly flat, alternatel}'' 

 covered with two or three feet of water and completely exposed. 

 The edges are loose and shifting, but most of the surface is some- 

 what fixed, and supports a slight sparse growth of marine plants. 

 This portion affords the best things. A considerable proportion 

 of the living shells of the locality may be found there. The sand 

 is full of tubicolous worms of several different species. Several 

 Echini, star-fishes, and jelly-fishes lie just about its edges. It is 

 the favorite spawning-ground of Limulus and two or three Busy- 

 cons. An Ascidian, an Ophiuran, Renilla reniformis, and Syn- 

 apta (?), are abundant. Two or three specimens of the rare Bran- 

 chiostoma were secured in sifting for Lingida pyramidata ; of 

 which last, as stated elsewhere, any desired quantity can easily 

 be procured 

 1871.] 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



In forming the present collection of marine invertebrates, every 

 part of the harbor was prett^^ thoronghly explored with the dredge, 

 which, however, was not used outside. Nearly everywhere the 

 depth of water proved less than we had been led to expect, and 

 the bottom freer of everything except shelly detritus. Upon the 

 whole, the results of dredging were not in a usual ratio, in 

 interest and importance, with those of collecting by hand on the 

 shoals, &c. I mention this fact, which surprised us at the time, 

 as it goes to show the changeableness of the locality. Probably 

 some of the dredging-grounds worked over by Drs. Stimpson and 

 Gill, in 1860, are not now such. 



The following names occur in Dr. Stimpson's list and not in the 

 present one : — 



Cj'nthia vittata; Molgula sp. ; Ascidia sp.; Plicatula sp.; Lima 

 sp. ; Axinrea sp. ; Area crelata; Pinna carolinensis ; Modiolaria 

 lateralis; Lucina cribraria and two other species; Felania; Lepton 

 lepidum ; Astarte undulata; Trigona sp. ; Yenus rugosa ?; Chione 

 pygmsea ; Lucinopsis n. sp. ; Semele reticulata ; Tellina fausta, 

 versicolor, constricta, T. sp., T. n. sp. ; Strigilla carnaria ; Telli- 

 dora lunulata ; Solen viridis ; Saxicava distorta ; Lyonsia sp. ; 

 Pholadidea cuneiformis ; Tornatella punctostriata ; Dentalium 

 sp. ; ClyiDidella pustula; Scalaria turbinata, multistriata, novang- 

 lia3?; Turbonilla sp. ; Volva uniplicata; Mangelia rubella, fili- 

 formis ; Columbella sp. ; Nassa ambigua ? ; Cerithiopsis ? n. sp. ; 

 Acus concavus. 



Additional ones of the present list are : Pecten sp. (fossil ?) ; 

 Area occidentalis, transversa, limula (fossil ?) ; A. sp. (fossil ?) ; 

 Modiola castanea ? ; Gemma tottenii ; Strigilla sp. ; Cochlodesma 

 leana; Crepldula, var. intorta; Pleurotoma plicata ; Marginella 

 apicina ; Cypraea exanthema ; Nassa? ; Rapana cinerea. 



Some of the undetermined names in the two are presumably 

 the same, and several of those in Dr. Stimpson's list have without 

 doubt been also found by me, but, in consequence of the miscar- 

 riage of a box containing them, were never finally determined. 



Ascidia. 



A species we have not determined is very common on Bird and 

 other shoals 



[July 18, 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 131 



Lamellibranchiata. 



Anomia ephippium, Linn. 



Abundant in all situations. 



Ostrea virginiana, Latr. 



Abundant, of excellent quality ; worth, according to season, 

 from 25 cents to 50 cents per bushel. 



0. equestris, Say. 



Abundant; adhering to rocks, with Modiola and Mytilus. 



" Prof. Stimpson informs me that this is not a N. C. species, 

 although it is in his Beaufort list. The specimens seem to me to 

 agree exactly with Say's description and figure ; they are short 

 and small, with from six to twelve denticulations on the upper 

 valve near the beak, received into corresponding depressions on 

 the edge of the lower valve." 



Plicatula depressa, Lam. 

 Frequent. Beach. 



Lima scabra, Born. 

 IS'os. 2615-6-7, dredged in the channel. 



Pecten dislocatus, Say. 



Abundant. All the live ones I saw were on the sand-bars and 

 somewhat muddy flats about the harbor ; the worn and variously 

 discolored valves are strewn everywhere. The scallops bring a 

 high price in the market ; the muscle is considered the only edible 

 part. These molluscs, and the large Cytherea, furnish some part 

 of the food of the herring gulls in winter. 



"Distinguished by the interrupted and dislocated colored mark- 

 ings from P. irradians, Lam., which has concentric bands of color. 

 Some of the specimens probably belong to this last species ; but 

 all the perfect ones I examined, even though showing prominent 

 concentric bands, display the zigzag markings, especially when 

 placed in water, so as to bring out the colors." 



Pecten concentricus, Say. (P. irradians, Lam.) 



Amono; the interminable variations in color of worn specimens, 

 some are pure white, or with only faint coloration in apparently 

 perfectly regular and concentric bands. 



1871.] 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Pecten nodosus, Lam. 



Apparently very rare ; one valve only (No. 2584) ; beach, worn, 

 in winter. 



Pecten, sp. indet. 



One specimen (No. 1687), fragment of a large species. "Pro- 

 bably fossil." 



Pectunculus, probably charlestonensis, Holmes. 



A few specimens (Nos. 1704, 2504, 2640) from the beach. 



" I think there is another species, much smaller. There ought to 

 be a good many fossil Pectiinculi, of which eleven species are 

 given by Conrad in his list of the miocene shells of the Atlantic 

 slope, most of them from North or South Carolina. Living or 

 fresh specimens would be of great interest." 



Area americana, Gray. 



Yery common, beach and elsewhere, both living and dead. 



Area holmesii, Kurtz. 



Beach and elsewhere ; very common. 



" I have seen no detailed description nor authentic specimen of 

 this species, and am uncertain whether a detailed description has 

 ever been published. I feel no doubt, however, of the correctness 

 of the identification" (of Nos. 2500, 49, 50, 1, 3, 4, etc.). 



Area lienosa, Say. 



Beach, frequent ; all the specimens I gathered were discolored 

 and more or less worn. 



" Fossil ? Say described it as fossil, but Stimpson has it in 

 his recent list." 



Area noae, Linn. 



More abundant than the next, to judge from specimens gathered 

 indiscriminately. Beach ; generally much worn. 



"^. zebra Swainson, according to Say. Whatever is the proper 

 name of this, it is certainly the shell that Say describes and 

 figures (Conchology, Binnej^'s Reprint, p. 229, fig. 66)." 



Area occideutalis. 



Beach, common ; usually worn. 



" Prof. Stimpson says this is different, and I see a very plain 

 distinction ; in noae the ribs are alternately large and small, while 



[July 18, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



in occidenfalis the larger ribs are comparatively few and distant, 

 ■with three or four smaller ribs between each pair." 



Area transversa, Say. 



"I find some small specimens that I think are this species, but 

 am uncertain whether they are not the young of some of the 

 others, especially as Stimpson does not include it in his Beaufort 

 list. Kurtz, however, gives it from both N. and S. C." I should 

 add, that Prof. Stimpson, in looking over an early lot of shells I 

 sent to the Smithsonian, made the same identification, presumably 

 from the same specimens that Mr. Smith subsequently received. 



Area limula, Conr. 



Beach, frequent. The specimens were without exception grayish 

 or rust-colored, with a chalky appearance in places. 



" Fossil ? Conrad quotes it as a miocene fossil from the Xeuse 

 River, below New Berne, and from Wilmington, N. C. It agrees 

 perfectly with Conrad's description and figure (Mioc. Foss. U. S., 

 p. 60, pi. 31, fig. 3)." 

 Area ponderosa, Say. 



Beach; fresh or living specimens, common. 



Area incongrua, Say. 



Beach; the most abundant of the genus, apparently; and, with 

 the last, oftenest found alive. 



Area. 



" Numerous specimens, all I think fossil ; and I have not the 

 means of determining them." 

 Nucula proxima, Say. 



Dredged, in the channels. 

 Yoldia limatula, Say. 



Beach, occasional, and dredged. 



Leda acuta, Conr. 



In the sand, frequent. Bird Shoals. 



Finna seminuda of Kurtz's list. 



Abundant. There may have been another species among the 

 many specimens gathered, only a few of which were forwarded. 



Avicula atlantica, Lam. 



Not common ; only two specimens secured. 

 187 l.J 




134 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Modiola plicatula, Lam. 



Yery abundant, in the muddier parts of the marsh, below high- 

 water mark, and thence part way out to the beach ; but no live 

 ones seen in the sand of the beach itself. In the former situa- 

 tions, the shells closely assimilate in color to the ground in which 

 they are partly imbedded ; in the sand, they are clearer, and show 

 the purplish hues. The larger ones are generally found singly, 

 anchoi'ed to bits of stick, the roots of plants, etc.; the smaller, in 

 masses, along with Ilytilus, adhering to plats of raccoon oysters, 

 the stones of the wharves at Beaufort, and the jutties of rock 

 on the beach. 



Modiola americana, Leach. 



Rather uncommon, on the beach only; none found alive, and 

 most somewhat worn. 



" Krebs gives 'J/, americana Tarvart d'Herbigny (if. ameri- 

 cana Leach ? M. tulipa Link, etc.)' and does not quote M. tulipa 

 otherwise. Stimpson gives in the Check List M. americana 

 (Leach), and among the doubtful species, 31. tulipa Lam. In the 

 Beaufort List, he gives both M. americana and 'If. tulipa.'' " 



Modiola castanea, Say ? 



A single specimen, dredged alive in the channel. 



"I have never seen an authentic specimen of this species, which 

 Kurtz in his catalogue gives only from S. C. It seems to differ 

 from M. americana, and to agree exactly with Say's description." 



Hytilus caroliuensis. 



Abundant ; adhering in masses to rocks and bunches of oys- 

 ters. 



Mytilus edulis, Linn. 



Beach. 

 Mytilus cubitus, Say. 

 Cliama aroiuella, Linn. 



Beach ; rather uncommon. 

 Chama macrophylla, Chemn. 



Beach and elsewhere, abundant. Dr. Stimpson informs me 

 that this is near its northern limit. 



Cardium magnum, Born. 



The most conspicuous shell on the beach, by reason of its size 



[July 18, 




.NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 135 



and striking variegated colors, as well as its abundance. Dead 

 shells are strewn everywhere; and live ones (mostly young) may 

 be found in every part of the harbor. 



Cardium muricatum, Linn. 

 Beach ; rather common. 



Cardium isocardia, Linn. 

 Beach ; common. 



Liocardium laevigatum, Lam. 



Beach ; not uncommon ; almost always worn, and with slate 

 or blackish discoloration. 



'■'' Cardium Isevigatum Lam. is given hy Hanley as a syn. of C 

 serratum (Linn.), and G. Isevigatum (Penn., and Linn?) as = 6'. 

 serratum Lam. The first named is our species, the other coming 

 from England." 



Liocardium mortoni, Conn. 



Dredged, and on the beach ; but apparently not abundant. 



Lucina strigilla, Stimp. 



Extremely abundant everywhere ; but no live ones seen. This 

 is a favorite with the population in the vicinity for what they 

 consider ornamental purposes — as, to paste on picture-frames, 

 along with Donax variabilis, Tellina alternata, Sigaretus per- 

 spectivus, and Scalaria humphreysii. 



Lucina chrysostoma {L. radula of Kurtz's list). 



Very common, beach and elsewhere ; no live ones seen. 



Diplodonta ? punctata, Say. 



Dredged. 

 Astarte lunulata, Conr. 



Dredged ; apparently rare. 



Cardita tridentata, Say. 



Dredged, one or two specimens. 



Mercenaria violacea, Schum. 



The representative species, and extremel}' common. 



Mercenaria violacea var. notata. 



Several specimens, among numbers of round clams indiscrimi- 

 nately gathered. 

 1871.] 




136 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



■ 



Mercenaria mortoni, Conr. 



The quahogs with prominent recurved concentric laminae are 

 common, and, so far as I am able to judge, readily distinguishable 

 from the more usual kind. Yery large specimens (five to six 

 inches) are scattered over the sand, half buried, on Bird or other 

 shoals, where I did not notice 31. violacea. I have seen boat-loads 

 brought for sale, consisting entirely of the ridged kind, and was 

 assured that they occurred in certain localities to the exclusion 

 of the other species. The fishermen seem to make a distinction, 

 and certainly I saw none that I hesitated to discriminate. Young 

 specimens (two to three inches) are quite smooth between the 

 fewer and sharper laminae ; in the largest ones the ridges become 

 blunter and more crowded, and the whole surface is rugged. 



Gemma totteni, Stm. ( Ve7ius gemma, Tott.) 

 Dredged. 



CMone cancellata, Linn. 



An abundant shell. 

 Cytherea convexa, Say. 



Strewn in numbers OA'er the beach. Of the many examples 

 gathered, all show gray or olive discoloration, and are much 

 eroded. 



"Fossil ? Stirapson does not give it, and Kurtz marks it 'N. 

 C, fossil ?' If fossil, the specimens are probably C. sayana Con- 

 rad, which he described and figured in his Miocene Fossils of the 

 United States as identical with Say's convexa ; but in his Cata- 

 logue of the Miocene Shells of the Atlantic Slope (Pr. A. N. S. 

 Phila., 1862, p. 575) he states it to be different. I have seen no 

 notice of the differences. It would be well to search for living 

 shells." 



Cytherea gigantea, Chemn. 



An abundant and conspicuous species of the sand-bars and half 

 muddy flats in the harbor ; also dredged in the channel ; not 

 seen on the beach. The colors of equally fresh specimens vary 

 much, in the general hue, and in the distinctness of the radiating 

 dark lines ; the young are generally brightest. They are al- 

 ways more or less scratched about the most convex part, where 

 much of the epidermis may be worn off. This mollusc is a 

 favorite article of food with the gulls ; the birds hold them 

 under foot much after the manner of hawks with their prej'^, and 



[July 18, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13Y 



break in one valve by repeated blows with the beak — a tedious 

 process, it seemed, in some cases that I watched. The fracture 

 of this shell is clean, sharp, and almost vitreous. 



Dosinia discus, Reeve. {Artemis concentrica, Born.) 



Very abundant ; the dead ones, almost always with the hinge 

 intact, are conspicuous on the beach ; and some live specimens 

 were procured about the harbor. 



Lucinopsis, sp. indet. 



Dredged. 

 Petricola pholadiformis, Lam. 



Dead shells are common ever^'where, but especially on the 

 beach. 



Raeta canaliculata, Say. 

 Beach, very abundant. 



Eaeta lineata, Say. 



Not ordinarily common ; but occasionall}^, after storms that 

 seem to disturb some special situations they inhabit, they are 

 strewn on the beach in large numbers. 



Mactra raveneli, Conr. 



Strewn in profusion on the beach and elsewhere. Most of the 

 worn specimens are variously discolored. 



" Probably what is catalogued as M. oblonga, Say, by Kurtz 

 and Stimpson." 



Mactra similis, Say. 



With the last ; not so common. 



" I find among the specimens some that I think are this, but it 

 is a doubtful species." 



Mactra lateralis, Say. 



Abundant, with the first. 



Donaz variabilis. Say. 



Very abundant ; living a few inches below the surface of the 

 sand, chiefly of the beach itself. At certain states of the tide, &c., 

 they are in the habit of coming to the surface, and of disporting 

 with considerable agility. They must, however, be somewhat 

 cautiously watched, as they have a sense of observation, whatever 

 it may be, that imforms them of probable danger, and causes them. 



1871.] PART II.— 10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



to disappear below with a degree of celerity tjiat astonishes one 

 who observes it for the first time. 



This species is very appropriatel3^ named. In looking at some 

 hundreds, I have found very few alike in color. After death the 

 valves, like those of Dosinia, long remain joined. 



Cumingia tellinoides, Conr. 



Dredged ; apparently not common. 

 Semele orbiculata, Say. 



A few specimens, dredged in the channel. 

 Amphidesma constricta ? Philippi. 



Dredged ? (Label misplaced.) 

 Abra sequalis, Say. 



Common : valves on beach and elsewhere ; and dredired. 

 Tellina alternata, Say. , 



The largest and most conspicuous, if not also the most abun- 

 dant, species of the genus noticed. Valves everywhere; and 

 dredged. 



Tellina tenera, Say. 

 Tellina tenta, Say. 

 Tellina iris, Say. 



These three species are common; teiita apparently less so than 

 the two others ; the specimens of it were all, I think, picked up 

 on the beach, where both tenera and i7'is also occur. The two 

 last, however, are more abundant on the sand-shoals, and in 

 shallow dredging-ground ; and, in particular, numbers of them 

 were taken among eel-grass with Bittium sp., which see. Some 

 of the several other species of the genus given by Stimpson ma}^ 

 also have been taken; but if so, were not identified. 



Tellina polita, Say. 

 Strigilla flexuosa, Say. 

 Dredged. 



Strigilla, sp. indet. 

 Soleu ensis, Linn. 



Abundant. Younger shells, living, are ver}' numerous on Bird 

 Shoals. S. viridis was )iot obtained. 



^iliquaria gibba, Spengl. {Solecnrtits carribaiis, Lam.) 



Very common ; dead valves are plentiful on the beach, but still 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



more so on the shingle at the mouths of the estuaries that make 

 from the marshes into tlie harbor, where tlie best specimens may 

 be found. 

 Siliquaria bidens, Chemn. 



Common, on the beach only, where all the numerous specimens 

 were gathered. 



Solemya velum, Say. 



Not uncommon ; living specimens dredged, and taken on Bird 

 Shoals, a few inches below the surface. 



Mya arenaria, Linn. 



Not common, comparativelj^ ; occasional valves occur anywhere, 

 but the species is not known here as an article of food. 



Corbula contracta, Say. 



Dredged ; a few specimens. 



Myalina subovata, Conr. 



Dredged ; a few specimens. 

 Panopaea americana, Conr. 



Apparently rare; two specimens; one valve (No. 1818), very 

 large, worn, was found on the beach, in winter ; another (2494a), 

 fresher and smaller, was taken the next winter, after one of the 

 storms that threw up numbers of Raeta lineata. 



Gastrochsena, sp. 



Dredged ; one specimen. I do not find the name among Mr. 

 Smith's Mss., and think it was an identification of Mr. Morse's. 



Cochlodesma leanum, Conr. 

 Lyonsia byalina, Conr. 



Dredged, I think (label misplaced). 



Pandora trilineata, Say. 



One specimen (No. 2618) ; beach. 



Pholas costata, Linn. 



Beach, very common. 



Pbolas truncata, Say. 



Beach, frequent. As in the cases of several other species, I 

 found valves quite plentiful at intervals, between which none were 

 seen. 



1871.] 




140 proceedings of the academy of 



Gasteropoda. 

 Polyceral sp. 



One specimen, dredged in the deeper part of the channel, about 

 an inch long, noticeable for its bright blue and yellow tentacles. 



Aplysia? sp. 



Two specimens of another nudibranch were taken Aug. 3, 1870, 

 as they were floating on the surface of the water in the harbor, 

 and the same species was subsequently several times seen. The 

 animals Ttere quite lively, moving about freely, especially if 

 irritated, by a regular waving motion of the free edges of the 

 tunic. When most contracted, they were of a flattened and some- 

 what irregularly oval shape, some three inches long ; and were 

 capable of stretching out between six and seven inches. Placed 

 in water, the color appeared of a clear warm brown, pellucid- 

 punctate all over ; these whitish dots gathered in irregular patches, 

 changing their contour with the animal's motions; when it was 

 closely contracted, an open network of dark lines appeared all 

 over the surface. Out of water, the whitish patches confer a 

 general glaucescence upon a dull brown ground. The animal is 

 tinted, especially behind, with carmine, from the deep lake-colored, 

 viscid, glairy fluid it emits in a stream, apparently at will. Black 

 eye-specks, distinct at the base in front of the posterior pair of 

 tentacles. I have not the means, at present, of identifying the 

 species, which seems to be not at all rare, but presume that it may 

 be recognized by the above description. 



TJtriculus canaliculatus, Say. 



Dredged, and on the beach. 

 Bulla solitaria, Say. 



Dredged. 

 Chiton apiculatus, Say. 



Fragments on the beach, and one perfect specimen, dredged. 

 Entails pliocena, T. & H. 



Numerous specimens, all dead; beach, and dredged. 

 Crepidula fornicata, Linn. 



Yery abundant, and the one oftenest found alive ; one, or several 

 together, upon the outside of other larger shells. 



Crepidula fornicata, var. intorta, Say. 



Several specimens.' 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPKIA. 141 



Crepidnla convexa, Say. 



Commou. 

 Crepidula unguiformis, Say. 



Commou ; dead, an^^where; and alive, adhering to the inside of 

 shells, such as Neverita, etc. 



Fissurella altemata, Say. 



Common ; chief!}'' on the beach. 



Zizyphinus, sp. 



Yery rare; a single specimen, dead, on the beach (No. 2516). 

 Turbo crenulatus, Gm. ? 



A single worn, incrusted specimen (No. 2595), from the beach, 

 evidently transported from a distance. 



"Exactly like Cuban specimens marked T. Mppocastaneus =^ 

 T. castaneus (Chemn.), which, however, I do not find recorded 

 from our coast." 



Littorina irrorata, Say. 



Extremely abundant, in the marsh; generally seen crawling 

 up the culms of reeds and grasses, from which they drop at a 

 touch. During summer they are so numerous in some places, 

 that they almost give color to the herbage, 



Scalaria humphreysii, Kiener. 



"Blood-shells," so called often, from the purplish color of the 

 soft parts that appear at the opening. Yery abundant, chiefly on 

 the beach, where occasionally they may be found touching each 

 other, if not heaped. The purity of color and pleasing form of 

 this shell render it a great favorite for those peculiarly ugly fab- 

 rications called " shell-frames." 



Scalaria lineata, Say. 



Common everywhere. 



Solarium granulatum, Lam. 

 Vermetus radicula, Stimps. 

 Common. 



CeritMum, sp. 



Some specimens, as 1*782, which apparently Mr. Smith did not 

 receive, were mentioned to me by Dr. Stimpsou as '■^ Cerithium 

 ferrugineum ?" 



18T1.] 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Bittium nigrum, Tott. 

 Bittium greenii, C. B. Ad. 



Dredged. 

 Bittium, sp. 



Extremely abundant in the shallowest and most sluggish parts 

 of the harbor, adhering to marine plants. On forcing a boat 

 through beds of this vegetation, where the water hardly covered 

 the dredge, we took scores of specimens in a few minutes ; and 

 the same haul showed the following : Tellina tenera, T. iris, Co- 

 lumbella avara, Abra, Nucula, Corbula, Obeliscus, Turbonilla 

 interrupta, Area holmesii, Nassa vibex, obsoleta, &c. The Bitti- 

 ums were blackish, and covered with vegetable matter. 



Triforis nigrocinctus, C. B. Ad. 



Dredged. 

 Odostomia seminuda, C. B. Ad. 



Dredged, in deeper waters. 

 Odostomia impressa. Say. 



Dredged, with the last. 

 Turbonilla interrupta, Tott. 



Beach and dredged. 

 Turbonilla 1 sp. 



Specimens in a large miscellaneous lot gathered on the beach. 



Obeliscus crenulatus, Holmes. 



Dredged. 



"I have not access to Holmes's description, but think this 

 must be his shell." 



Eulima oleacea, Ktz. and Stm. 



Dredged ? (Label misplaced.) 



Sigaretus perspectivus, Say. 



Very common. Dead shells are plentiful everywhere ; and on 

 Bird Shoals the live animals are frequently found. The largest 

 animals measured about four inches across, with a shell of an 

 inch or more. 



Natica pusilla. Say. 



Not common. Two or three specimens dredged. 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Neverita duplicata, Say. 



Abundant. 

 Cypraea exanthema, Linn. 



Rare; one specimen (Xo. 1810), a worn fragment, so identified 

 bj'' Dr. Stimpson. 



Pleurotoma cerina, Ktz. and Stm. 



Dredged. 

 Pleurotoma plicata, C. B. Ad. 



Dredged. 

 Marginella apicina, Menke. 



Dredged, and frequently found on the beach. 

 Oliva litterata, Lam. 



Very common ; called " Key-shells," 

 Olivella mutica, Say. 



Very abundant ; "Bead-shells." 

 Columbella avara, Say. 



Common ; beach, shoals, and dredged in A^arious parts of the 

 harbor. "Some are of unusually bright colors." 



Columbella ornata, Ravenel ? 



Several specimens. 

 Columbella lunata, Say. 



Several specimens dredged. 

 Dolium galea, Linn. 



Beach, frequent. 

 Semicassis granulosa, Brug. 



Common. 



Cassis cameo, Stm. 



Common ; but I never saw it alive, and nearly all the specimens 

 noticed were worn, and usually also with slate discoloration. 



Purpura floridana, Conr. 



Rare, I should judge, having obtained but few specimens — Xos. 

 115T and 2588 (a broken one), and two live ones, 



Ilyonassa obsoleta. Say. 



I should judge this to be the most abundant shell of this 

 locality, LittoiHna, even, not excepted. - Mj-riads cover the sand- 



1871.J 




144 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



shoals and mud-bars of the harbor, and the mud of the marshes, 

 in some places so thickly that no step can be taken without tread- 

 ing them under foot. They may be dredged at all depths ; and 

 bleached shells are heaped in some places. Such numbers, in 

 devouring decaying vegetable substances, must exercise decided 

 influence in the natural economy of the locality. The dead shells 

 of this as well as of tlie species of the next genus afl?ord the most 

 usual accommodations of the smaller Eupaguri. Many specimens 

 may be found with the apex perfect ; but in such cases it is 

 usually lighter colored and more fragile than the rest of the shell, 

 as if already devitalized. 



Nassa vibex, Say. 



Common. 

 Nassa trivittata, Say. 



Common. 

 Nassa T 



Several undetermined specimens; and others marked ^^Nassa 

 vibexV^ 

 CeritMopsis terelsralis, C. B. Ad. 



Dredged, in the channel. 



Acus dislocatus, Say. {Cerithium petitii,^.) 



Yery abundant. The species lives mostl}^ on the shoals and in 

 the shallower dredgings ; dead shells are found everywhere. 



Rapana (Fusus) cinerea, Say. (Buccimmi plicosum, Menke.) 



Common on the beach and dredged in various places. The shells 

 are too numerous to be likely to escape ordinary observation (and 

 the species may have been accidentally omitted from Dr. Stimp- 

 son's list). " I have some doubt about this identification, as there 

 appears to be some difiference in the canal and outer lip; but if not 

 this, I do not know what it is." 



Busycon pyrum, Dillw. (Fulgttr pyruloides, Say.) 



Not common ; two or three specimens only, dead, from the 

 beach. 

 Busycon canaliculatum, Linn. 



Common, but less so than the next. While the many speci- 

 mens examined seemed to me constant in form, the colors are 

 notably variable. Nearly all are white, more or less pure, outside, 

 but the older ones have a rough brownish epidermis ; inside, the 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



tint varies from nearly wliite or pale delicate j'ellow to briglit 

 salmon-color. 



Busycon carica, Linn. 



Abundant ; probably there are ten or more of this to one of the 

 last or of the next. They are used for food by the lower classes. 



This pyrula spawns in May. I have observed and taken nu- 

 merous specimens with the egg-case issuing from them. At this 

 season the females resort to the shoals covered with a foot or so 

 of water at high tide, and exposed at other times. They bury 

 themselves a few inches below the surface of the sand, and doubt- 

 less remain stationary during the whole process, which appears 

 to require considerable time (not ascertained, even approxi- 

 mately). The case is thrust upward through the sand, and at 

 length appears above the surface, lying exposed, and thus indicat- 

 ing the whereabouts of the animal. The string begins as a simple 

 shred of the substance, two or three inches long, without proper 

 cases. The first few cases are imperfect, smaller than the rest, and 

 of decidedly different shape ; one or more may not contain young 

 shells. They regularly increase in size, and assume with equal 

 regularity the perfect shape. The string is spun out to an average 

 length of between two and three feet ; the cases are largest and 

 most closely packed at or just beyond the middle; the series 

 generally terminates more abruptly than it began. 



These es^or-cases have the form of those ascribed to Pyrula 

 canaliculata by Mr. Smith (Ann. Lj'C. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vol. vii, 

 p. 150), and by Mr. Geo. H. Perkins (Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. xiii, p. 115). Mr. Smith writes: "I have determined the 

 species to which each form of egg-cases belonged simply by com- 

 parison of the young shells contained in them with adult specimens 

 of P. carica and canaliculata; and have ascertained from Mr. 

 Perkins that he made his determination in the same way. I have 

 made a comparison of the young shells contained in the broad- 

 edsed cases comin£c from Fort Macon, with similar ones from 

 Rockaway, L. I., and find them to agree exactly. Mr. Perkins 

 and myself are therefore evidently wrong, the broad-edged cases 

 belonging to P. carica, and the sharp-edged to P. canaliculata.^^ 

 Egg-cases of the broad form are abundantly strewn on the beach 

 and elsewhere, especially during the summer months ; but I do 

 not now call to mind that I ever noticed the sharp-edged ones. 

 1871.] 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Specimens of this species, or of one closely resembling it, vary 

 remarkably in color, and to a notable degree in general contour, 

 number of spines to a whorl, their length and stoutness, &c. 

 Younger individuals, up to three or four inches in length, are 

 much variegated, but pretty regularly so, with the brown bands; 

 the full-grown ones are too different in this respect to be concisely 

 described. The oldest lose distinctive coloration, from the growth 

 of rough dark epidermis, and are usually incrusted with foreign 

 substances, as well as often with balani, ostreje, &c. Inside, the 

 shells appear to have no determinate color ; this varying from 

 indefinite whitish, with some variegation from the colors outside 

 showing through (in young specimens), to yellowish ortawn}^; 

 and finall}', in mature spring specimens at any rate, to brilliant 

 salmon — almost red. I should judge that the coloration could 

 afford no reliable specific characters. The shells bleach pure white 

 in time, passing through a tawny or rusty stage ; others present 

 slate, or almost black, discoloration. The upper surface of the 

 foot in life is jet black, contrasting strongly with the vivid color 

 of the under side. 



This species, and the last, as well as, doubtless, the others, ai'c 

 carnivorous, and apparently rapacious, animals ; they also prey 

 upon each other. I have found younger shells of both carica and 

 eanaliculata^ enwrapped and half hidden in the folds of large 

 individuals of their own and the other species. 



" There are probably several species of Busycon on our coast, 

 but they are not well made- out. No. 1*771, as well as some of the 

 smaller ones (thus 1*132, &c.), having numerous rather low spines 

 and dark brown bands, is probably B. spinosum (Conrad, Pr. A. N. 

 S. Phil., 1862, p. 553)." 



Busycon perversum, Linn. 



Common; about equalling, I should judge, canaliculatum in 

 numbers. It generally passes, hereabouts, for a "she conch," 

 carica being the " he." 



Caucellaria reticulata, Linn. 



Common ? Two or three specimens, dead. 

 Fasciolaria tulipa, Linn. 



One mutilated specimen (2126). 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



Fasciolaria distans, Lam. 



Common. This and young Busycons are favorite residences of 

 the larger Eiqoagurus. 



Fasciolaria gigantea, Kiener. 



Two specimens, from the beach, much worn and discolored 

 (slate), each over a foot long. 



Eanella caudata, Say, 

 Common. 



Murex spinicostata, Val. 



Not common (two or three specimens). 

 Strombus pugilis, Gm. 



Frequent. Of about a score of specimens examined, all were 

 much worn, and had evidently been transported from a distance. 



[Note. — I append to the foregoing list the names of a few air-breathers 

 that were collected. ] 



(Gasteropoda Pulmonata.) 

 Limaz, sp. 



Observed under decaying wood, &c., on Bogue Island. 



Helix albolabris, Say. 

 Helix thyroides, Say. 

 Helix multilineata, Say. 



These three species were obtained, the two first in large num- 

 bers, from the beach of Shackleford, but no one of them was seen 

 on Bogue Island. 



Helix postelliana, Bland. 



"Interesting on account of the localit3% neither this species nor 

 an}' other of the group to which it belongs having hitherto been 

 found here" (Bland, in epist). Very abundant on Bogue Island, 

 in moist grass, &c., about the edges of the marsh. 



Melampus bidentatus. 

 Melampus obliquus, Say. 



Rather common, on the beach, and dredged in shallow water 

 among marine plants. 



RADIATES. 



The few specimens that have been determined, out of a consi- 

 derable number collected, furnish the following names, mostly 



187L] 




148 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



given upon Dr. Stimpson's authority : A species of Physalia, and 

 another allied form, are of frequent occurrence along the beach. 

 Two or three jelly-fishes were noticed, one of them occurring in 

 laro-e numbers about the harbor. Several corals and sea-fans also 

 occur. 



Ophiophragmum wurdemanni? 

 Bird Shoals, common. 



Asterias arenicolai 

 Abundant. 



Luidia clathrata. 



Very abundant. 

 Astropecten articulatus. 



Abundant. Fresh specimens are of a rich purple, edged with 

 golden yellow. 



Melita quinquefora. 



The most abundant echinoderm of all, found everywhere. 



ScMzaster lachesis. 



Rather common. 

 EcMnocidaris punctulatus. 

 Lytechinus variegatus 1 



This and the last are two common species, found about the 

 edsres of the shoals throughout the harbor. 



Actinia? sp. 



A medium-sized plain grayish sea-anemone occurs in abundance 

 on the rocks of the jutties along the beach. 



Benilla reniformis. 



Rather common. Specimens ranged from a few lines to over 



two inches in breadth. 



(To be continued.) 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



CONTRIBUTION TO ORTHOPTEEOLOGY. 

 BY PROF. C. THOMAS. 

 Caloptenus difFerentialis. Thomas. 



Syn. Acridium clifferentiale, Uliler. Trans. 111. St. Ag. Soc, r. 450. 

 (Thos.) CyrtacaJithacris differcntialis. Walk. Cat. Dermap., IV. GIG. 



Although the name of this insect has found its "way into the 

 catalogues, j'et it has received no other description than the very 

 short and imperfect one given by me in the Transactions of the 

 Illinois State Agricultural Society, vol. v. 450. It was designated 

 by the name A. clifferentiale, in a box of Orthoptera kindly 

 named and returned to me by Mr. Uhler. But as he has never 

 described it, and, as I learn from him, does not propose to do so, 

 I give here the first regular description, that it may no longer 

 stand in the catalogues as a mere name. 



Large, robust ; sides of the pronotum squarel}' deflexed, but 

 lateral carinte not distinct ; wings as long as the abdomea ; pul- 

 villi of tarsi remarkably large. General color, olive-brown. 



Female. Occiput convex, not punctured ; a transverse indenta- 

 tion between the angles of the eyes ; vertex broad, expanding in 

 front of the eyes, obtuse, with a broad shallow sulcus above (per- 

 haps not always distinct) ; the frontal carina broad, flat, or very 

 slightly sulcate, sides parallel, a row of slight punctures each 

 side; lateral caringe obtuse, nearly parallel. Antennse passing 

 the thorax slightly, slender, filiform, joints not distinct except 

 near the base. Pronotum has the sides squarely deflexed, the 

 dorsum but slightly convex, that of the posterior lobe being almost 

 flat ; the three transverse incisions distinct, the posterior, which 

 is deeply indented, being postmedial ; the median carina distinct 

 on the posterior lobe, but indistinct on the anterior lobes ; the 

 lateral carinte consist only of the rounded angles formed by the 

 deflexion of the sides. Elytra narrow, about as long as the abdo- 

 men. Wings thin and delicate, with slender nerves, a little shorter 

 than the elytra. Abdomen large and fleshy, somewhat keeled 

 above ; upper and lower appendages very stout, cerci very short. 

 Posterior femora very much swollen near the base and quite thick, 

 tapering rapidly so as to be rather slender near the knee ; a little 

 shorter than the abdomen ; not sharply carinated either above or 

 below. Tibiie much enlarged at the apex ; about as long as the 

 femora ; the apical half furnished with strong spines and hairy. 

 1871.] ^ 




150 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Claws of the tarsi stout ; pulvilli remarkably large. Prosternal 

 spine cylindrical, blunt, and bent back to the margin of the meso- 

 sternura. 



Male. Is only about two-thirds the size of the female, from 

 ■which it differs as follows : Frontal carinte more distinct, the 

 middle one more distinctly sulcate. The elytra and Avings are 

 longer in proportion to the body, extending beyond the abdomen ; 

 the posterior femora also proportionally longer. The abdomen is 

 considerably enlarged at the extremity, and turned abruptly up- 

 ward ; the cerci very large, bent upward and inward, broad at 

 base, with an off'set or notch on the lower edge; the little angular 

 processes at the base of the superanal plate are very minute and 

 blunt (much less than in G. sprelus or femur-rnbrum) ; the sub- 

 anal plate convex, pointed, and almost entire, hairy. 



Color (dried after long immersion in alcohol). 



Female. Head and anterior lobes of the pronotum reddish- 

 brown ; labrum and parts of the mouth black ; antennae rufous. 

 Posterior lobe of the pronotum an olive-brown. El3^tra unspotted, 

 olive-brown at the base, fading toward the extremit3\ Wings 

 transparent, with a portion of the nerves near the front and apex 

 dark. Abdomen and under side dark reddish-brown. Posterior 

 femora with the disk and upper edge dark brown, lower edge 

 yellowish ; inside yellow, with an oblique, interrupted, dark stripe 

 running from the upper edge back across to the lower edge be- 

 yond the middle ; knee black. Tibiae have the upper end and lower 

 half yellow, spines black ; tarsi brown ; claws j-ellow at base, 

 black at the points ; pulvilli with a yellow stripe through the 

 middle. 



Male. Yery similar, the principal difference being that the 

 thorax, abdomen, and under side are of a lighter olive or j^ellow 

 color ; an oblique j-ellow stripe immediately behind the middle 

 legs quite distinct and bright. 



When the insect is living, the olive-brown is an olive-green or 

 olive color; and there are yellow spots and stripes on the thorax, 

 and the abdomen and under side are principally yellow. The male 

 is generally of a brighter color than the female. 



Dimensions. Female, length 1.7 in. ; head and pronotum .52 in. ; 

 femora .92 in. ; tibioe .9 in. Male 1.2 in. 



Habitat. Jackson County, Illinois. 



I^ote. — Walker (Cat. Dermap, iv. 610) has placed this species in Cyrta- 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 151 



canthacris, for no otlier reason, so far as I can see, than that the prosternal 

 spine approaches the border of the mesosternum. Although it differs 

 slightly from the typical species of Caloptenus, yet it certainly has more 

 characters of the latter than of the former genus. It is, in shape, very much 

 like the larger specimens of C. hivittatus. The back of the pronotum is 

 not sloped from the median carina, but is exactly like the dorsum oi femur- 

 rubrum, spretus, bivittahis, etc. 



Opomola brachyptera, Scudd. 



As Mr. Scudcler's description is founded on a single male speci- 

 men, I will give a full description of what I conceive to be a 

 female of the same species. 



Female. Vertex carinated ; elytra narrow, reaching the tip of 

 the second abdominal segment. Antennge broad, ensiform. Pale 

 orange-brown, with minute dusky points. 



Occiput convex, straight, not ascending, with a shallow longi- 

 tudinal depression each side, leaving a low, broad, rounded ridge 

 in the middle. Yertex triangular, margins turned up, a veiy dis- 

 tinct median carina, the three meeting together in front form a 

 blunt point; length in advance of the eyes equal to about one- 

 third the entire length of the head. The face tricarinate, or rather 

 quadricarinate, as the frontal ridge is so deeply sulcate that it 

 forms two distinct carinas, which meet at the vertex; all some- 

 what divergent, and reaching the cross suture. Eyes oblong-ovate. 

 Antennse scarcely as long as the head and thorax, ensiform, flat- 

 tened, and slightly prismatic. Pronotum about as long as the 

 head, tricarinate; sides almost perpendicular, parallel; only the 

 posterior transverse impression distinct on the dorsum, situated a 

 little behind the middle. Elytra lanceolate, narrow, reaching the 

 extremity of the second abdominal segment. Wings narrow, 

 minute, about half as long as the elytra. Abdomen long, slender 

 and somewhat cylindrical, slightly carinated on the dorsum. The 

 four anterior legs short and slender; posterior femora slender, 

 straight, and not as long as the abdomen ; tibiae slender, nearly 

 cylindrical, somewhat hairy at the apex. The prosternal point is 

 short, being only a blunt protuberance ; behind it the prosternum 

 is marked by a shallow sulcus (but this may not be constant). 

 Color (dried after long immersion in alcohol). General color a 

 pale orange-brown, without distinct spots or markings, but with 

 minute dusky points. The antennae brown, with a purplish tinge ; 

 vertex, legs, and abdomen tinged with the same color. Spines of 



1871.] 




152 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the posterior tibise, abdominal appendages, and tarsal claws tipped 

 with black. 



"When living, the only specimen I have seen appeared to be of a 

 uniform grayish-brown. Length 1,5 inches. 



My unique specimen was caught near the ruins of Fort Casper, 

 on the North Platte, Wj'omiug Territory, August, 1870. Found 

 in the tall grass on the river bottom. 



Mesops wyomingensis, Thos. nov. sp. 



Small, slender, cylindrical ; elytra reaching the fifth abdominal 

 segment; abdomen of the male terminating in a pointed process. 

 Pale green, sometimes varied with red, immaculate. 



Female. Occiput convex, slightly bowed up in the middle ; a 

 very slight median ridge can be discerned which reaches a little 

 in front of the eyes, where it suddenly terminates in a semicircular 

 depression, which separates it from the vertex. The vertex is flat 

 above, conical, margin not turned up, triangular, advanced con- 

 siderably in front of the eyes; a shallow foveola ma}' be distin- 

 guished under each lateral margin ; the circular depression which 

 divides it from the occipital ridge, sweeps round from the upper 

 canthus of one eye to that of the other. The face quadricarinate 

 — the frontal ridge being so deeply sulcate as to appear like two 

 distinct carinse, all prominent, sharp, divergent below, and reach- 

 ing the cross suture ; the sides of the frontal ridge approach each 

 other just below the ocellus, and on each side, directly opposite 

 this constriction, there is a short transverse indentation (this 

 appears to be constant). Eyes oblong-ovate, somewhat promi- 

 nent, situated near the antennre. Antennas flattened, broad, and 

 somewhat prismatic. Pronotum about as long as the head, nearly 

 cylindrical, not carinated, though a faint median line is some- 

 times visible. Elytra narrow, sharply rounded at the apex, 

 reaching to the anterior margin of the fifth segment. Wings 

 nearly the same length. Abdomen elongate, cylindrical, slightly 

 enlarged at the apex ; appendages short, the upper ones nearly 

 covered b}^ the super-anal plate ; the cerci are mere points. The 

 four anterior legs are very short and delicate; posterior femora 

 of moderate length, reaching the tip of the fifth segment, slender 

 and deeply channelled below ; posterior tibiae about the same 

 length as femora, very slender, cylindrical, furnished with delicate 

 spines about two-thirds their length; tarsi somewhat elongate, 



[July 25, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 153 



the middle joint being rather longer in proportion to the others 

 than usual. Prosternal point quite short and blunt, more so in 

 the female than in the male. Mesosternum convex, with a sharp 

 indentation running lengthwise on each side. 



Color (dried after long immersion in alcohol). Pale greenish- 

 yellow, immaculate. Antennae dull ash golor, darkest along the 

 exterior margin Spines of the posterior tibia and tarsal claws 

 tipped with black. When living, the female is of a uniform pea- 

 green color. 



Male. Differs from the female as follows: Is much smaller 

 and of more slender proportions. The vertex more pointed and 

 the margins slightly elevated. Face rather more oblique, being 

 almost horizontal. Abdomen terminating with a long-pointed 

 extension bent slightly upward at the tip, about equal in length 

 to the head. El^'tra and wings same proportional length as in 

 the female. Antennoe, face, vertex, occiput, pronotum, posterior 

 femora, and abdominal appendage a pale carneous red ; a white 

 stripe runs from tlie lower border of the eye along the lower edge 

 of the face and pronotum to the base of the middle legs. This 

 description of the male marks the extreme variation from the 

 female, those of immediate shades being common. 



Found along the east base of the Black Hills of Wj-oming, in 

 the vicinity of Cottonwood Creek, August, 1870. Taken in the 

 grass}^ creek bottoms. 



Dimensions. Female — length 1.1 inch ; male, .9 inch. 



I have placed this species in Mesops^ to which it appears to 

 belong from the incomplete generic description of Serville, who 

 had only one imperfect specimen, which had the apex of the abdo- 

 men wanting. Walker (Cat. Dermap., III. 501) names another 

 species of this genus — 31. carinatus — as found in the United States, 

 but speaks of the sheaths of the oviduct of the female as being 

 lanceolate. 



]\fote. — Two errors occur in my paper published in the Proceedings July, 

 1870, which should be corrected. 



B. nigrum, Thos., should be B. nubilum, Thos. 

 Syn. Gryllus nuMlus, Say. 

 Oed. pruinosa, Thos., should be Oed. trifasciata, Thos. 

 Syn. Gryllus trifasciatus. Say. 



The descriptions are proper, aud may stand, as the original descriptions 

 of Say are very short and incomplete. The corrections were forwarded 

 before publication, but failed to reach their destination. • 



1871.] PART IL— 11 




154 proceedings of the academy op 



June 5, 1871. 



Mr. Yaux, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Nineteen members present. 



The publication of pp. 57 to 88 of the proceedings for 1871 

 was announced. 



Remarks on a Fossil Tesfudo from Wyoming — Prof. Leidy 

 directed attention to some remains of a fossil turtle discovered 

 bj Dr. Joseph K. Coi'son, U.S.A., of Fort Bridger, at Grizzly 

 Buttes, Wyoming, in association with remains of Palseosyops^ &c. 

 Most of the remains of turtles from the same locality, which 

 had been submitted to his inspection, appeared to belong to the 

 same family as our terrapins, except those referred to the geiyis 

 Trionyx. The present fossils appear to indicate a large species 

 of land tortoise, equal in size to the living Tesfudo indica of the 

 Galipagos Islands. Less characteristic fragments, apparently 

 of the same turtle, had been previously found by others, espe- 

 cially Prof. Haj'den and Dr. J. Van A. Carter. The most charac- 

 teristic specimen obtained by Dr. Corson is the anterior extremity 

 of a sternum, consisting of the greater part of both episternals 

 and a small portion of the entosternal bone. It might be supposed 

 to belong to an Emys, but its abrupt and prolonged extension for- 

 ward as in several of the living species of land tortoises, cou^Dled 

 with its great thickness and strength, leads to the opinion that it 

 really indicates a large Tesfudo. 



The gular scute impressions are defined by strong oblique 

 grooves diverging at angles of about 40°. From the outer boun- 

 dar}^ of these impressions, the episternals are directed rather 

 abruptlj' forward for an inch and three-quarters. In front, the 

 sternum forms a nearlj^ straight line three and three-quarter 

 inches wide, and is only slightly notched at the middle. 



The under surface of the episternals corresponding with the 

 position of the gular scutes, is strongly convex ; the upper sur- 

 face slopes forward to the anterior acute border. 



The gular scutes, at their posterior angle, touched upon the 

 entosternal bone. Their length in the median line is three and a 

 half inches ; at their outer border, three and a quarter inches. 

 The episternals measure three and a quarter inches in advance of 

 the entosternal plate ; their thickness reaches an inch and a half 



The species was named Testudo Corsoni, in honor of its dis- 

 coverer. 



Remarks on supposed Fossil Turtle Eggs. — Prof. Leidy then 

 exhibited a number of specimens of what he suspected were fossil 



[August 15 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



turtle eggs. They were found b}^ Dr. J. Yan A. Carter, of Fort 

 Bridger, Wyoming, in the same formation which has yielded so 

 many remains of turtles. Dr. Carter had discovered upwards of 

 forty of them together, and first suggested the idea that they 

 might be eggs. Prof Hayden's collection from the same vicinity 

 contained several specimens of the same bodies, Avhich had been 

 incidentally glanced at as coprolites. The uniformity in shape 

 and size of these bodies, coupled with the structure, which con- 

 sists of a thin homogeneous stony shell filled with an arenaceous 

 matrix, renders it probable they may be eggs. They have the 

 elongated oval form of the eggs of our common Emi/,H 2ncta^ and 

 measure about an inch in length and five lines in the short dia- 

 meter. 



Remarks on the Garnets of Greenes Creeh^ Delaware Co. — Prof 

 Leidy also directed attention to the character of the garnets of 

 Green's Creek, Delaware Count3^ These garnets, usually much 

 prized b}^ our mineralogists, appear not to have been discovered 

 in place, and have been found as part of the pebbles of the creek 

 bottom. They never present a crystalline form, and are looked 

 upon as rolled pebbles. Specimens exhibited show a singular 

 grooved appearance, apparently due to the abstraction of crystals 

 of some other mineral, which had been imbedded in the surface of 

 the garnets. This condition would indicate that the garnets 

 probabl}^ existed in the rock in the form of nodules and not of 

 ci-ystals, as is frequently the case with minerals imbedded in trap 

 rocks. In Dana's Mineralogy it is stated that chlorastrolite occurs 

 on the shores of Isle Royale, L. S., in small rounded pebbles which 

 have come from the trap and are water-worn. To avoid an erro- 

 neous impression, it should rather state they are found in the trap 

 as rounded nodules, and become detached by the breaking up of 

 the trap on the shores of the lake. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to some remarks made by him to 

 the Academ^^ recentlj'' in regard to variations in the cotyledons 

 of the peach, in which the most striking fact was that there was 

 a multiplication of cotyledons when there was a plurality of era- 

 brj'os, without an}' increase in the usual cotyledonous mass; and 

 that in the division of this mass no proportionate rule was adopted 

 in the apportionment of each. He said he could not then under- 

 stand how this arrangement accorded with the general opinion 

 that the lobes of the dicotyledonous seed were formed almost 

 simultaneously with the origin of the fertilized vesicles, but dared 

 not express his doubts on that one instance alone. But he had 

 now to offer for the examination of the members numerous speci- 

 mens of sprouting cotyledons of Querent robur and Quercus ru- 

 bra, which seemed to admit of no otiier conclusion than that the 

 division into cotyledons was accomplished long after the cotjde- 



1871.] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



donous mass had been shaped as we find it finall}^ developed in 

 the seed. 



In the case of Quercus rohur a plurality of plantlets from one 

 sprouting seed was not uncommon. He had found dozens in 

 a peck of seed. These were usually in tAvos, but occasionally 

 in threes. Of the last he exhibited only one specimen. In all 

 these cases there Avas no more matter emploj'ed than if only one 

 dicotj-ledonous seed had been perfected in the usual way. The 

 division of the mass into four or six cotyledons was ver}' arbi- 

 trary. In some cases one cotjdedon Avould have one-third the 

 whole to itself, the remaining being divided between the rest. 

 There was also the same irregularity^ in direction. In some cases 

 the division, after going longitudinally perhaps one-third the dis- 

 tance, would take a lateral direction, giving a broken-off appear- 

 ance to the one cotyledon, similar to the leaf of a Liriodendron^ 

 while the opposite division would thus be left with a thick gib- 

 bous tip. The divisions in other cases would take a somewhat 

 spiral course. It was evident that there was little more rule in 

 these divisions than there would be in the breaking of a piece of 

 glass. 



He had examined a half peck of sprouting acorns of Qnercus 

 jjalustris and another of Quercus macrocarpa^ but in these he 

 could detect no sign of variation — each seed seemed cleft smoothly 

 and directly through the centre into two regularly equal halves. 

 But in Quercus rubra there were some remarkable phenomena. 

 Of these he exhibited numerous specimens. In none of them did 

 he find a plurality of embryos, the interest was in the division of 

 the pair of cotjdedons. All the specimens of Quercus rubra 

 examined had fissures extending from the outside towards the 

 centre. These were two, three, or four. In some cases the fissures 

 extended but a mere line in depth ; at other times they would 

 penetrate to near the centre of the mass. In all these instances 

 the surfaces in the fissures were clothed with membrane, just as 

 we find to be the case in the walnut. The divisions of the coty- 

 ledons ivere_ always in the direction of these Jissm^es, giving the 

 lobes a very irregular appearance. In some cases a triangular 

 section served for one lobe, while the sum of two united tri- 

 angular sections served for the second one. It was so evident 

 here that the divisions of the seed into cotyledons were in the 

 weakest lines of union, and that these weak lines existed prior to 

 the division, that he thought no one of the gentlemen present who 

 were examining them could possibly dispute the conclusion. 



He further suggested that the absence of au}^ secondai'y mem- 

 brane from the face of the cotyledon was an argument in favor of a 

 late and smaller division. In ruminated seeds, such as the walnut 

 or papaw, this membrane followed tlie innei'most outline of the 

 surface, and was no doubt a formation directly from the cells of 

 the cotj'ledouous mass ; but the suddenness of cotyledon forma- 



[ August 15 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



tion would prevent the formation of such a membrane, especially 

 after the cells had lost much of their vitality by being converted 

 into depositions of starchy or other mattei*. Hence we found but 

 the finest membrane covering the cotyledon faces. 



He could not understand how the facts exhibited accorded with 

 the earl}^ division into cot3dedons by actual growth, as taught in 

 our leading botanical works. For himself, he felt that botanists 

 would yet come to regard all seeds as non-cotyledonous in their 

 early stages ; and that the divisions into cotyledonous lobes ivas a 

 mechanical result determined in a great measure b^"^ the position 

 of the germinal vesicle without the cotyledonous mass. 



Mr. Meehan also referred to remarks he made on a former occa- 

 sion in regard to the sensitive clasping of the stigraatic divisions 

 of the pistil in Torenia asiatica. He had since found the same 

 phenomenon in 3Iimulus, Lindernia, and Diplacus; allies of the 

 Torenia. He did not know that this irritable closing power 

 had been placed on record au3Mvhere; but as there were hybrids of 

 Mimulus in cultivation, the fact could not but have been noticed 

 by cultivators at some time. In Mimulus the motion was more 

 rapid than in others he had tried. 



June 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were offered for publication: — 



"Notice of a new Brachiopod from the Lead-bearing rocks at 

 Mine La Motte, Mo." By F. B. Meek. 



"Descriptions of three new species of Exotic Unionid^e." By 

 Isaac Lea. 



" Descriptions of twenty new species of Unionidse of the United 

 States." By Isaac Lea. 



Prof Cope made some extended observations on the supposed 

 orders of Plectognathi and Lophohranchii of Cuvier, of which the 

 following is an abstract : He stated that, after an examination 

 of their structure, he could not regard them as divisions of equal 

 value with the Physostomi and Fhysoclysti, etc. He stated that 

 the Plectognathi are Physoclysti in all respects, viz., the relations 

 of the supra-occipital to the other cranial bones, the structure of 

 the scapular arch, hj^oid and branchial arches, in the relations of 

 the dorsal and ventral fins, structure of basis of caudal fin, of 

 swim-bladder, etc. The family Teuthyes, among other Physoclysti, 

 formed the nearest approach to them, and that the coalescence of 

 1871.] 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the bones of the maxillary and mandibular arches is not more 

 important than many other structures found in the same subclass. 

 He regarded the Lophohranchii as a group having the same 

 general affinities with the Physoclysti, but aberrant with some 

 other groups in the possession of abdominal ventral fins. It 

 was closely related to another division of the Physoclysti which 

 he called the Hemihranchii^ which has ventral fins, and wants 

 one or more of the outer series of the superior pharyngeal bones, 

 besides other characters. This order embraces the Fistulariidse, 

 Centriscidx, and Gasterosteidse, and should perhaps include the 

 Lopliobrancliii also. 



June 20. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication: — 

 "S^-nopsis of the genus Chettusia (LobivaneUus), with a descrip- 

 tion of a new species." By J. A. Ogden. 



June 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty -one members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members: — 



Fred'k W. Endlich, Edw. K. Williams, and Fred'k Gutekunst. 



Gen. L. E. Yorke, of Cincinnati, Ohio, was elected a corre- 

 spondent. 



On favorable report of the committees, the following papers 

 were ordered to be published : — 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF FOSSILS FEOM OHIO AND OTHER 

 WESTERN STATES AND TERRITORIES. 



BY F. B. MEEK. 



The Ohio fossils described in this paper are a part of the col- 

 lections of the Geological Survey of that State, now being prose- 

 cuted under the direction of Dr. J. S. Newberry. Full descrip- 

 tions and illustrations of these will appear in the reports of this 

 Survey. Those from Illinois will likewise be illustrated and 

 described in the reports of the Survey of that State. For the 

 latter I am under obligations to Mr. William Gurley and Dr. 

 Winslow, of Danville, Illinois. 



The Melantho and Vivijjarus, described at the end of the paper, 

 belong to collections brought by Dr. Hayden from Wyoming 

 Territory, and were accidentally omitted in my preliminarj^ paper 

 recently published in Dr. Hayden's report. They will be figured 

 along with the others in his final report. 



OHIO COLLECTIOXS. 



FENESTELLA DELICATA, Meek. 



Growing in flat flabelliform, very finely reticulated expansions; 

 branches ver}^ slender, rigid, bifurcating, and often nearly parallel, 

 or gradually diverging to give room for new ones formed by divi- 

 sion ; dissepiments about half as thick as the branches, alternat- 

 ing or opposite, and but little expanded at their ends as seen on 

 the non-poriferous side ; fenestrules very uniform, oblong, with 

 length usuallj' about one-third to one-half greater than their 

 breadth ; non-poriferous side roughened by little granules ; pori- 

 ferous side with a row of little pointed elevations along a more 

 or less defined mesial ridge of each branch, pores comparatively 

 large, alternating and numbering two, or occasionally three, in 

 each row opposite each fenestrule, and one generally exactly at 

 each end of each dissepiment. 



Size of entire polyzoum unknown, but it apparently attains a 

 length of three inches or more ; number of fenestrules in 0.20 

 inch, measuring longitudinally, three; ditto, measuring trans- 

 versely'-, four. 

 1811.] 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



As seen on the non-poriferoiis side, this species closel}'' re- 

 sembles Prof. McCoy's figure of his F. plebeja, as represented 

 natural size, excepting that it forms a sliglitly finer network. 

 Under a magnifier, however, it is seen to differ in having a row 

 of little nodes along each branch, and I have not seen any longi- 

 tudinal stria on its branches, though they probably exist on those 

 of perfect specimens. The magnified figure of the poriferous 

 side of F. loleheja shows still more important differences, its fenes- 

 trules being proportionally much longer, with four or five pores 

 opposite each side. The little nodes or i^rojections along the 

 middle ridge of this side of the branches in our species do not 

 exist in F. plebeja, nor does the latter usually have a pore oppo- 

 site the end of each dissepiment, as in the species under consider- 

 ation. 



Localitij and position. Lodi, Ohio. Waverley group of Lower 

 Carboniferous. 



PTILODICTYA (STICTOPORA) CARBONARIA, Meek. 



Ramose, branches from their origin generallj'' nearly equalling 

 the breadth of the stem from which they spring more or less al- 

 ternately and at angles of about 50° to 60°; poriferous surfaces 

 of each side flattened convex; lateral margins sharp and smooth; 

 pores arranged in quincunx so as to form about seven to nine 

 longitudinal rows (those of each two adjacent rows alternating), 

 and about the same number of pores may be counted in each ob- 

 lique row, very nearly or quite circular, and each with a promi- 

 nent margin, so as to appear as if penetrating minute pustules ; 

 intervening spaces usually about once and a half to twice the 

 breadth of the pores, and smooth or without longitudinal ridges 

 or furrows. 



Entire size unknown ; breadth of medium-sized branches, 0.14 

 inch; thickness in the middle, 0.05 inch; number of pores in a 

 space of 0.10 inch of each longitudinal row, six; while in the 

 oblique rows about seven may be counted in the same space. 



Among the Silurian species of Stictopora, this seems to agree 

 most nearly with S. pnnctipora, Hall, from the Niagara Group, 

 which it nearly resembles in its round pores with raised margins, 

 as well as in the number and arrangement of its pores. It differs, 

 how^ever, in having its sharp lateral margins smooth, instead of 

 being striated. A critical comparison of specimens from these 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



two Ayidel3'-separated horizons would doubtless show other differ- 

 ences of details. 



Its branches are narrower, and the number of its longitudinal 

 rows is less than in the species from the Corniferous limestone 

 that I have described under the name P. Gilherti^ Mdiich also 

 differs in having longitudinal ridges between the rows of pores. 



Locality and position. Newark, Ohio. Coal-measures (loAver 

 part). 



AVICULOPECTEN SANDTJSKYENSIS, Meek. 



Shell attaining a rather large size, strongly compressed, very 

 nearly equivalve, rather oblique, somewhat longer in its antero- 

 posterior diameter than high ; posterior margin rounded and 

 somewhat produced below, and sloping upward and forward 

 above ; anterior margin rounding obliquely backward and down- 

 ward from the anterior ear into the base, which is semiovate, 

 being a little more prominent behind than anteriorly ; hinge line 

 rather distinctl}'' shorter than the entire antero-posterior diame- 

 ter of the valves ; ears flat, subequal, and acutely pointed, the 

 posterior one being shorter than the margin below, and the ante- 

 rior sometimes longer than the anterior margin beneath ; in the 

 left valve both are defined by somewhat angular nearh' equal 

 marginal sinuses, while in the right valve the anterior one is 

 slightly concave and defined by a more angular sinus, from which 

 a linear impression extends obliquel}'^ upward to the beak, which 

 seems not to project above the cardinal margin ; beak of left 

 valve slightl}^ more convex than that of the other, but scarcely 

 more prominent, and placed a little in advance of the middle of 

 the hinge. Surface of left valve ornamented by numerous un- 

 equal, slender, radiating costai or thread-like lines, that are nar- 

 rower than the spaces between, and obscure concentric striae, only 

 the latter of which are usually seen on the ears ; surface of right 

 valve similarly but less distinctly marked. 



Antero-posterior diameter of a specimen under medium size, 1.27 

 inches; height, measuring at right angles to the hinge, 1.20 inches; 

 convexity, about 0.16 inch. Some specimens were, when entire, 

 evidently not less than twice the linear dimensions of that from 

 which these measurements were taken. 



As near as can be determined from Mr. Conrad's rather brief 



1871.] 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



description, and his figure of a single riglit valve of his Avicula 

 2iarilis (Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., vol. 8, pi. xii., fig. 9), the 

 species under consideration would seem to be somewhat nearly 

 allied. It has nearly the same general outline and obliquity, and 

 somewhat similar cars, though its anterior ear is proportionally 

 shorter, and defined by an impressed line extending from the sinus 

 obliquely upward to the beak. Our shell also differs in being 

 very nearly or quite equivalve, instead of having the right valve 

 flat and the left plano-convex. 



I know nothing of the hinge of this shell, and therefore merely 

 refer it provisionally to Aviculopecten. It is rather more oblique 

 than the species of that genus generally are, and possibly it may 

 be found to have the internal characters of Pterinea or Avicula^ 

 and thus have to take the name Pterinea Sandusky ensis or Avi- 

 cula Sanduskyensis. 



Locality ay\d position. Sandusky and Delaware, Ohio. Corni- 

 ferous group of the Devonian series. 



PTEEINEA (PTERONITEST) NEW ARKENSIS, Meek. 



Shell small, longitudinally subovate or truncato-semiovate, 

 about two-thirds as wide (high) as long, being wide behind and 

 narrowing anteriorly ; cardinal margin straight or slightly curved 

 in outline behind the beaks, and about two-thirds the length of 

 the valves, very short and declining in front of the beaks; poste- 

 rior margin truncated so as to iutersect the hinge at an angle of 

 about 100°, but rounding regularly into the base; anterior side 

 very short, somewhat lobed and narrowly rounded; basal margin 

 semiovate, being most prominent, and ascending obliquely with a 

 very slight!}^ sinuous outline before. Left valve moderately con- 

 vex, the greatest convexity being near the middle, or a little be- 

 fore it, and thence obliquely forward and upward to the beak, as 

 well as downward to the most prominent part of the base behind 

 the middle ; beak xery oblique, elevated a little above the hinge 

 margin, and placed about one-fifth the length of the valve from 

 the anterior extremity; swell of the oblique umbonal and central 

 regions separated from the slightly lobed, narrowly rounded an- 

 terior extremity by a broad undefined impression extending to the 

 antero-basal margin ; posterior dorsal margin compressed and 

 somewhat alate: surface apparently smooth, excepting some very 

 faint ridges of growth, which are most strongly defined on the 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



anterior extremity. (Right valve unknown.) Length of left valve 

 0.55 inch ; height (behind the middle), 0.35; convexity, 0.10 inch. 



This is one of those peculiar forms presenting an intermediate 

 appearance between Avicula, Pterinea^ and Pteronites^ but not 

 agreeing exactly in outline with well-defined species of any of 

 these groups. So far as can be determined from casts of the left 

 valve only, it does not appear to have had the hinge teeth of 

 Avicula or Pterinea ; wiiile it also differs from the latter in not 

 having the posterior extremity of the hinge extended or acutely 

 angular, though there is an obtusely angular, slight posterior 

 dorsal alation, which, however, is not defined by any sinuosit^^ of 

 the posterior margin. From the forms on which the genus Ptero- 

 nites was founded, it differs in having the hinge a little shorter 

 than the posterior margin, and its beaks further removed from 

 the anterior extremity. 



There are probably several undefined genera among the Carboni- 

 ferous shells of this general appearance, that we have not yet the 

 means of defining. 



Locality and jyosifion. Newark, Ohio. "Waverley group of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



CYPRICARDINA? CARBON ARIA, Meek. 



Shell small, longitudinally' oval, less than twice as long as high, 

 the widest (highest) part being under the posterior extremity of 

 the hinge ; rather gibbous, with often a shallow undefined impres- 

 sion or slight concavity extending from the beaks obliquel}^ back- 

 ward and downward to near the middle of the basal margin ; pos- 

 terior side rounded below the middle, and somewhat straightened 

 and sloping up obliquely forward to the posterior extremity of the 

 hinge ; anterior side extremely short and more or less rounded ; 

 cardinal margin nearl^^ straight or slightly arched, and about two- 

 thirds the length of the valves, sometimes showing a very faint 

 compression, or tendency to become a little alate behind; base most 

 prominent posteriorly, and gentl}' ascending forward, with a more 

 or less defined broad sinuosity along the middle ; beaks extremely 

 oblique, terminal, and so little prominent as scarcely to project 

 beyond the rounded outline of the anterior end. Surface orna- 

 mented by about twenty, very regularly disposed, subimbricating 

 lamina? of growth. 



o 



1871.J 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



licngtb, 0.56 inch; height, 0.34 inch; convexity, about O.lt 

 inch. 



This little shell agrees very nearly, in size, form, and ornamen- 

 tation, with the t3^pical forms of the group for which the name 

 Cypricardina was proposed, excepting perhaps the fine sculptur- 

 ing seen between the larger regularly disposed lamina of growth 

 in those shells, though even these markings may possibly exist on 

 well-preserved specimens of our species. 



In regard to the hinge of the t3'pical species of Cypricardina, 

 nothing is known. In the shell here described, however, one of 

 the casts shows a moderately well developed hinge plate, with 

 one linear tooth in one valve, and two in the other, running nearly 

 parallel with the cardinal margin along its entire length, and at 

 the posterior end of the hinge one or two shorter linear teeth 

 parallel to and beneath the others ; while at the anterior end of 

 the hinge, in the right valve, there is one very small, slightly 

 oval tooth, fitting between two similar minute teeth in the left 

 valve. These little teeth are slightly compressed from above and 

 below, and range with their longer diameter nearly parallel to the 

 hinge margin. No cardinal area can be seen, though there may 

 have been a very small narrow one immediately between the 

 beaks, as there is no cavity seen in the hinge margin for an inter- 

 nal cartilage. The muscular and pallial impressions are so faintly 

 marked that no traces of them have been seen on the casts of 

 the interior. 



Until the hinge of the typical species of CypiHcardina can be 

 made out, it is impossible to determine whether our shell belongs 

 to that genus or not. I have the impression, however, that it 

 belongs to a distinct Carboniferous group nearly allied to the 

 Silurian genus Cyp)ricadites of Conrad, but differing in having 

 its principal hinge teeth extending the entire length of the car- 

 dinal margin, with the cai'dinal area more or less nearly obsolete, 

 and the anterior muscular impression very obscure. It also dif- 

 fers from the known species of Mr. Conrad's genus, in having 

 remarkably regular, prominent, imbricating, concentric ridges or 

 laminffi. Area squamosa, A. obscura, and A. faba, de Koninck, 

 belong apparently to the same group, and possibly also the form 

 referred by this same author to A. obtusa, Phillips, though the 

 latter approaches still more nearly to the tj'pical Silurian forms 

 of Cypricardites in its hinge characters. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 165 



If Cypricardina should be found to have a differently con- 

 structed hinge, I would propose for the group of Avhicli the 

 species here described might be regarded as the type, the name 

 Synopleura^ in allusion to its very regular concentric costas or 

 laminae of growth. It is still possible, however, that this group 

 may be found too nearly allied to Cypricarclites to stand as a 

 distinct full genus ; if so, the name of the species under con- 

 sideration would have to be written Gypricardites (Synopileura) 

 carhonaria. 



Locality and position. Newark, Ohio. Lower Coal-measures. 



SCHIZODUS MEDINAENSIS, Meek. 



Shell of medium size, subtrigonal, moderately convex above 

 the middle and cuneate below, somewhat longer than high ; an- 

 terior side rounded ; basal margin somewhat straightened or 

 slightly convex in outline along the middle, rounded up regularly 

 in front and more abruptly behind ; dorsal outline sloping nearl}' 

 at right angles from the beaks toward the extremities, tlie ante- 

 rior slope being more abrupt than the other ; posterior side longer 

 than the anterior, sloping with a more or less convex or subtruu- 

 cate outline above, and very narrowly rounded below; beaks 

 rather prominent, pointed, located a little in advance of the 

 middle ; posterior umbonal slopes rather prominently rounded or 

 subangular from the beaks obliquely to the posterior basal ex- 

 tremity. Surface nearly smooth, or only showing fine lines of 

 growth. 



Length, 1 inch ; height, 0.82 inch ; convexity, 0.44 inch. 



This species has been supposed to be identical with, or nearly 

 related to, a New York Chemung form, which was, I believe, de- 

 scribed by Mr. Conrad under the name Nuculites Chemungensis. 

 It certainly differs, however, materially in form from that shell as 

 figured and described by Mr. Conrad in vol.viii. of the Journ. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Philad., and might with as much propriety be identified 

 with western Coal-measure species, ranging even up into beds 

 referred by some to the Permian. One of these, described by Prof. 

 Swallow under the name Cypricardia'^ Wlieeleri (Trans. St. Louis 

 Acad. Sci., vol. ii. p. 96, 1862), and figured by Prof Geinitz under 

 the name Schizodus o&scwrws, in his "Carbonformation und Dyas 

 in Nebraska," agrees more nearly in form, but differs in being 

 decidedly more depressed, with less elevated beaks, and a more 

 1871.] 




IGG PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



truncated posterior outline. It also differs from the shell under 

 consideration, in being sometimes a little sinuous on the poste- 

 rior basal margin. Another Coal-measure form figured by Prof. 

 Geinitz, under the name Schizodus Rossicus, is in some respects 

 still more nearly like our shell, but differs in other characters. 



As difficult as it certainly sometimes is to separate closely 

 allied species of this genus, I cannot think that we ought to 

 refer to the same species forms found occup^nng such widely dif- 

 ferent horizons as the Chemung group of the Devonian, and the 

 Waverley group and Coal-measure of the Carboniferous; on the 

 contrary, it seems to me that we ought to regard them as distinct 

 species, although it may not be easy, in all cases, to point out 

 well-defined distinctions in the fossilized shells. 



Locality and position. Medina, Ohio. Waverley group of the 

 Lower Carboniferous. 



SCHIZODUS STJBTRIGONALIS, Meek. 



Shell trigonal-subovate, about once and a half as long as high, 

 rather convex ; basal margin more or less nearl}'- semicircular in 

 outline, rounding up regularly in front and abruptly behind ; an- 

 terior side short, rounded or subtruncate ; posterior side some- 

 what extended, rounded below, and slanting very obliquely for- 

 ward and upward above to the posterior extremity of the hinge, 

 which is short and a little straightened ; posterior umbonal slopes 

 prominently rounded ; beaks somewhat depressed and usually 

 nearer the anterior end than the middle. Surface smooth, with 

 apparently only fine lines of growth. 



Length, 0.96 inch; height, 0.66 inch; convexity, 0.36 inch. 



This species is more depressed and oblique than the last, and 

 has its beaks placed farther forward. In its depressed oblique 

 form, it agrees even more closely with S. Wheeleri, Swallow (sp.), 

 than the last, but it differs again in having its beaks placed far- 

 ther forward, or sometimes almost over the anterior margin. It 

 also appears to be alwa3's without the faint sinuosity of the pos- 

 terior basal margin sometimes seen in that Coal-measure form. 



Locality and position. Wooster, Ohio. Waverley group of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



ALIORISMA WINCHELLI, Meek. 



Shell of about medium size, elongate subelliptic, the length 

 being equal to about three and a half times the height, moderately 

 convex ; posterior extremity a little gaping, obliquely subtrun- 

 cated above and narrowly rounded below the middle ; anterior 

 extremity extremely short, closed, concave in outline obliquely 

 forward and downward from the beaks above, to the lower 

 end of tlie lunule, where it is subangular, and from this point 

 rounding off obliquely into the base ; ventral margin forming a 

 broad, gentle curve, but generally somewhat straightened, and 

 sometimes faintly sinuous near the middle ; dorsal margin nearly 

 straight, or a little concave in outline, and showing the usual in- 

 flection, which forms a lanceolate escutcheon with a slight ridge 

 on each side, from the beaks to the posterior extremity of the 

 hinge, which equals about three-fourths the entire length of the 

 valves ; beaks much depressed, very oblique, incurved, and 

 located onl}- about one-fourteenth the entire length of the shell 

 from the anterior extremity ; posterior umbonal slopes merely 

 somewhat prominently^ rounded ; anterior umbonal slopes gene- 

 rally subangular near the beaks, and sometimes this prominence 

 is obscurely continued as a faint rounded ridge obliquely back- 

 ward and downward to a point a little in advance of the middle 

 of the base. Surface ornamented with concentric lines and ridges 

 of growth, that generally assume the character of little regular 

 wrinkles on the umbones. Lunule small, rather deep, moderately 

 well defined, and obovate in form. 



Length of a mature specimen, 1.1 i inches; height to middle of 

 dorsal side, 0.83 inch; do. to horizon of beaks, 0.87 inch; con- 

 vexity, 0.70 inch ; length of hinge line, 1.17 inches. 



This is a very neat, symmetrical species, often found in an excel- 

 lent state of preservation as casts of the exterior showing per- 

 fectly the form and surface-markings, excepting the fine granula- 

 tions usually, if not always, existing in species of this genus. 

 Like other species of the group, it varies more or less in form, 

 some individuals being proportionally shorter and higher than 

 others. In size and general appearance it closely resembles A. 

 clavata of McChesney, from the Chester group. It does not re- 

 semble the particular variety of that shell, however, figured by 

 Prof. McChesney, so nearly as it does what I have always believed 

 1871.] 




168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



to be the usual form of the same, bis tj^pical specimen baving tbe 

 beaks more prominent and fartber removed from the anterior end 

 than in tbe more normal form of tbe species, and its dorsal out- 

 line straigbter and more sloping posteriorl3% with the valves more 

 compressed. Compared with specimens that I have referred to, 

 A. clavata from tlie Chester group of "West Virginia, collected by 

 Prof. Stevenson, our Waverley species are found to agree very 

 nearly with some individuals of tbe latter, though it alwaj'S has 

 its ridges of growth less strongly defined and more irregular, and 

 its anterior basal margin usually more oblique. It also differs in 

 the possession of an anterior umbonal ridge extending from the 

 beaks obliquely backward and downward nearly or quite to the 

 basal margin a little in advance of tbe middle. 



The specific name is given in honor of Prof, A. Winchell, the 

 able State geologist of Michigan, who has described many fossils 

 from tbe same horizon in tbe western States. 



Locality and position. Rushville and Xewark, Ohio. Upper 

 part of the Waverley group of the Lower Carboniferous. 



ALLORISMA VENTRIOSA, Meek. 



Shell subovate, the length being about once and a half the 

 height, moderately convex ; posterior margin obliquely subtrun- 

 cated above, and narrowlj^ rounded or subangular near the middle^ 

 thence sloping obliquely under and forward ; base rather deeply 

 and somewhat irregularly rounded, tbe most prominent part being 

 near tbe middle; anterior side short, with an oblique truncate or 

 concave forward slope above, to the lower extremity of tbe lunule, 

 where there is a more or less angular projection, below which the 

 margin slopes with a slightly convex outline oblique backward 

 and downward sometimes nearly to the middle of tbe base ; dor- 

 sal margin more or less concave in outline, and showing tbe usual 

 lanceolate escutcheon margined on each side b3^a subangular ridge ; 

 hinge equalling about two-thirds the length of the valves; lunule 

 rather small, deep, well defined, and narrow-subovate in form; 

 beaks moderately prominent, oblique, and placed about one- 

 seventh the length of the valves from the anterior end. Surface 

 ornamented by small irregular ridges and furrows of growth. 



Length, 1.46 inches; height to cardinal margin, 0.98 inch; do. 

 to horizon of beaks, 1.03 inches; convexity, 0.66 inch ; length of 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILABELPHIA. 1G9 



hinge, 1 inch. Another specimen, 1.54 inches in length, has a 

 convexity of 0.15 inch. 



It is barely possible that this may be a variety of the last, bnt 

 as I have before me ten good specimens of that shell, and two of 

 the form under consideration, and there are among them no inter- 

 mediate gradations between the two forms, I can but regard them 

 as distinct species. The shell here described differs from the last, 

 with which it was found associated, in being proportionally 

 decidedly shorter and wider (higher), as well as in having its ven- 

 tral margin much more prominent or deeply rounded in the cen- 

 tral region. Its beaks are also less oblique, rather more promi- 

 nent, and proportionally farther from the anterior end. It shows 

 some faint traces of a similar anterior oblique umbonal ridge to 

 that seen in the preceding species, but it is less distinct, and does 

 not show so decided a tendency to become angular at the beaks. 



Locality and position. Rushville, Ohio. Waverley group. 



PLATYOSTOMAT TRIGONOSTOMA, Meek. 



Shell strongly depressed or subdiscoid, with the periphery an- 

 gular ; spire so low that the shell is less convex above than below 

 the periphery ; volutions three, XQvy rapidly increasing in size, 

 particularly in breadth, merely' with an outward slope above ; last 

 one large and compressed convex, but not much projecting below, 

 a little declining near the aperture on the inner side above ; suture 

 linear ; aperture large, subtrigonal, with breadth greater than 

 height ; lip extended forward on the inner side above, and appa- 

 rently very oblique. (Surface marking unknown.) 



Breadth 1.35 inches ; height about 0.60 inch. 



I am not sure that this is a true Platyostoma. It is far more 

 depressed in form than anj- of the described species of that genus, 

 and, judging from some faint undulations on the cast apparently 

 corresponding to the direction of the lines of growth on the upper 

 and lower sides of the body volution, these lines would seem to 

 have curved strongly backward in passing outward toward the 

 peripher}^, thus indicating the presence of a rather deep, broad 

 sinuosit}' of the lip at the termination of the peripheral angle. If 

 this is the real direction of the lines of growth, it would probably 

 be nearer correct to call the species Pleurotomaria trigonostoma ; 

 but as there is no appearance of a band on the periphery, and the 

 lines of growth are not certainly known to describe these curves, 

 1871.] . PART II.— 12 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



I have concluded to place it provisionally in the genus Plaiyos- 

 toma. 



I should perhaps remark here, that this is certainly not a de- 

 pressed variety of Platyostoma Niagarensis ; and the specimens 

 clearly show tliat they have not been accidentally compressed. In 

 internal casts there is a small umbilical perforation, but this was 

 probabl}' occupied by the columella, before the shell itself was 

 dissolved away. 



Locality and jMsifion. Yellow Springs, Ohio. Niagara group 

 of Upper Silurian. 



PLATYCERAS (ORTHONYCHIA!) LODIENSE, Meek. 



Shell rather small, non-spiral, or merely having the form of 

 rapidly expanding cone, with a backward obliquity that brings 

 the apex nearly over the posterior margin ; lateral slopes nearly 

 straight or slightly concave, and converging to the apex at an 

 angle of about 80°; posterior side vertical and a little concave in 

 outline; anterior slope somewhat more than twice as long as the 

 height of the posterior side, moderately convex in outline, and 

 provided with a ridge or obtuse carina along its entire length; 

 aperture oval suborbicular, being slightly longer than wide; lip a 

 little sinuous anteriorly, immediately on one or both sides of the 

 termination of the central ridge of the anterior slope, which ridge 

 is thus made to terminate in a little projection of the margin. 

 Surface marked by fine lines of growth, most distinct on the an- 

 terior slope, where they curve backward as they approach the 

 mesial ridge, and then abruptlj^ forward in crossing this ridge; 

 extremely faint traces of minute radiating striae apparently also 

 exist. Apex rather abruptly' pointed and directed backward, 

 without any lateral obliquity. 



Length, measuring obliquel}' from apex, 0.91 inch; breadth, 0.82 

 inch; direct length from anterior to posterior margin, 0.96 inch; 

 height of apex, 0.40 inch. 



This species is remarkable for its regular obliquely-conical form 

 and non-spiral apex, which is merely rather obtusely pointed and 

 directed obliquely backward, without the slightest lateral curve. 

 It therefore differs widely in form from the typical species of 

 Platyceras, and agrees more nearly with existing species of Capii- 

 lus. It also resembles a shell figured and described in the third 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



A'oluine of the Palaeontology of New York, from the Oriskany 

 Sandstone, under the name Cyrtolites e^^9a>i8M8, excepting that its 

 apex is not so alternate. Although possibh^ not a true PlaUjceraii^ 

 it seems to be more nearly- allied to the section of the same for 

 which the name Orthonychia has been proposed than to Cyrtolites^ 

 which was founded on a very different type (C. o?'nafiis, Con.), 

 with a very peculiar style of ornamentation. In its surface mark- 

 ings our shell agrees with Plafycei-as, in being merely marked 

 with fine lines of growth more or less undulated on the anterior 

 slope, with traces of very obscure radiating stripe, which latter, 

 with its non-spiral form, indicate relations to the section Ortho- 

 nychia. It therefore bears the same relations to the elongated 

 forms of Orthonychia that the depressed, rapid!}- expanded species 

 of Platyceras, such as P. obscurum, bear to the typical forms of 

 the genus. 



Locality and x^osition. Lodi, Ohio. Waverley group of the 

 Lower Carboniferous series. 



PLATYCERAS TORTUM, Meek. 



Shell very thin, dextral, attaining a medium size ; in young- 

 specimens composed of about one and a half to two volutions 

 subglobose, these first turns being contiguous, rounded and rapidly 

 increasing in size, after which the next turn, which composes the 

 larger part of the shell, becomes free, very oblique, and increases 

 little in size toward the aperture, thus making the entire form 

 very obliquel}^ subrhombic; body volution a little flattened on 

 the upper slope, subangular above, and somewhat prominently 

 rounded near and below the middle ; aperture apparently oval 

 suborbicular ; lip without sinus ; surface without plications, and 

 with only moderately distinct lines of growth. 



Length, 1.3G inches; breadth, 1 inch; breadth of aperture, 0.80 

 inch; height of aperture, 0.82 inch. 



I have long been familiar with casts of this shell in the collec- 

 tions of the Illinois Survey-, but as they were only casts of the 

 interior, I had some doubts whether they might not be from dis- 

 torted specimens of some of the other Gasteropoda already de- 

 scribed. The specimens from which the above description was 

 made out, however, retain the shell itself, and show that it is a 

 true Platyceras. Specifically it is more nearly allied to some of 

 1871.] 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



the non-plicated varieties of the N.York Upper Silurian P. sinrale, 

 than it is to any of the other Carboniferous species known to me, 

 thongli its first two volutions are more compactly coiled together 

 than those of that species. 



Locality and position. Greentown, Summit Co., Ohio. Coal- 

 measures. 



HOLOPEA (CYCLORA) NANA, Meek. 



Shell very small, subglobose, wider than high ; spire much de- 

 pressed ; volutions three, rounded, increasing rapidly in size, so 

 that the last one forms the larger part of the shell ; suture deep 

 or almost channelled ; surface smooth ; umbilicus small ; aperture 

 subcircular; lip simple. 



Height of the largest specimen seen, 0.05 inch ; breadth, 0.01 

 inch. 



This little shell seems to be quite abundant, and from the fact 

 that the larger specimens present considerable uniformity of size 

 and general appearance, I can scarcely doubt that they are adults. 

 It will probably fall into the genus Cyclora, Hall (Am. Jour. Sci. 

 and Arts, vol. xlviii. p. 294, 1845), and would seem to agree closely 

 in size and form, as near as can be determined from a description 

 alone, with the typical species C. minuta. So far as I have been 

 able to determine, its inner lip, however, does not appear to be 

 reflected over the minute umbilicus, as is said to be the case in 

 that shell. The G. minuta came from the Cincinnati group at 

 Cincinnati, and it is very improbable that it ranges up to the 

 horizon at which the specimens under consideration were ob- 

 tained. 



Locality and jiosition. Clinton, Ohio. Silurian. 



ORTHOCERAS ? ISOGRAMMA, Meek. 



The only specimens of this shell that I have seen are flattened 

 by accidental pressure. The most nearly perfect specimen in the 

 collection is 2.80 inches in length, with a breadth (as seen flattened 

 in the matrix), at the larger broken end, of about 0.95 inch, and 

 with sides diverging from the smaller, rather bluntly pointed ex- 

 tremity, at an angle of about 18°. At and near the smaller end 

 the surface is marked by very minute, crowded, transverse, or 

 annular striae. About three-fourths of an inch farther up, these 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELrHIA. 17 



o 



striae gradually increase in size, and become more irregular in 

 tlieir arrangement, but soon pass above into very regular larger 

 transverse lines, separated by spaces about twice as wide as the 

 lines themselves. These spaces gradual!}'' increase in breadth, 

 until the}' become five or six times as wide as the lines, above 

 which point they continue very regular in their arrangement, 

 about four of the lines and three of the intervening spaces occu- 

 pying a space of 0.10 inch. Near the smaller end, the flattened 

 spaces show what appear to be impressions of septa made visible 

 through the thin shell b}^ pressure. Two of these occup}' a space 

 of 0.10 inch. 



As it is seen flattened in the matrix, the very regular transverse 

 lines on this fossil give it somewhat the appearance of an attenu- 

 ated Conularia ; but as it shows no indications whatever of longi- 

 tudinal angles or furrows, it cannot belong to that genus, from 

 which it also diflTers in texture, though I am not quite sure that 

 it is an Orthoceras. It will be readilj' distinguished by its surface- 

 markings alone, from any species of the latter genus hitherto 

 described from our Coal-measures. In its surface-markings, it 

 bears some resemblance to Dentaliur)i cinctian, de Koninck (Am. 

 Foss. Belg., pi. xxii.. Fig. 3), which Prof, de Koninck afterwards 

 refers to the genus Orthoceras. Our shell, however, is much 

 more rapidl}' tapering, and straight instead of arched. 



Locality and position. Newark, Ohio. Lower Coal-measures. 



ILLINOIS COLLECTIONS. 



'STREPTACIS WHITFIELDI, Meek. 



Shell small, elongated, slender, and very gradually tapering ; 

 volutions nine or ten, increasing gradually and regularly in size ; 

 first or embryonic turn minute, planorbicular and standing edge 

 upward ; succeeding turns convex and obliquely coiled ; suture 

 deep and very oblique ; aperture ovate. Surface smooth. 



Length, 0.16 inch ; breadth, 0.04 inch ; slopes of spire straight, 

 with a divergence of about thirteen degrees. 



This little shell agrees so nearly with those Tertiary species on 

 which Deshayes founded his genus Aciculina, that I am strongly 



> I referred this shell to Aciculina, Desh., in MS.; but as that name was 

 I)reoccupied, I propose for our type the name Streptacis. 

 [187L 




114 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



inclined to think it belongs to that group. It has exactly the 

 form, size, surface, aperture, and lip, and even the irregularit}', of 

 the embryonic volutions seen in AcicuUna; while the only differ- 

 ence I have been able to see is, that its embryonic turns, instead 

 of forming a minute cone turned to one side at right angles to 

 the longitudinal axis of the body of the shell, have the form of 

 a Plaiiorbis standing edge upward. Whether or not this slight 

 peculiarity in the minute apex ma}' have been accompanied by 

 some important difference in the structure of the animal, it is of 

 course impossible to sa3^ 



The specific name is given in honor of R. P. Whitfield, Esq., of 

 Albany, New York. 



Locality and position. Danville, Illinois, where it occurs with 

 many other small shells of the Coal-measures, in a bed of shale 

 immediately over the coal-mine of that place. 



LOXONEMA ATTENUATA, var. SEMICOSTATA. 



Chemnitzia attenuata, Stevens, 185S, Am. Journ. Sci., vol. xxv. (Sec. 

 series), p. 259. — (Not Loxonenia attenuata, Hall, 1859.) 



Shell very small, elongate-conical, somewhat more tapering 

 above than below the middle ; volutions about twelve, slightly 

 convex and increasing gradually' in size from the apex, the last 

 one being rounded and not larger in proportion to the regular 

 increase of the whole than the others ; suture distinct ; aperture 

 ovafe, scarcely equalling one-fourth the entire length of the shell. 

 Surface of the upper volutions (excepting one or two of the smooth 

 apical turns) each ornamented by thirteen or fourteen very regu- 

 lar, straight vertical costse, about equal in length to the furrows 

 between ; farther down these costfe gradually become obsolete, so 

 that tliree or four of the lower volutions show only minute lines 

 of growth that are invisible without the aid of a magnifier. 



Length of a rather small specimen, 0.13 inch; breadth, 0.15 

 inch; slopes of spire slightly convex and diverging from the apex 

 at an angle of about 18°. 



This little shell is evidently closely allied to the form called 

 Chemnitzia attenuata by Dr. Stevens, but its volutions increase 

 more rapidl}', and have the costse smaller. It is probablj' a dis- 

 tinct species, but until more specimens can be examined with the 

 view of determining how far the species varies in the characters 

 mentioned, I have preferred to place it as a variety L. attenuata. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



One of the specimens of this species shows some indications of 

 having the immediate apical turn, as it were, very slightly un- 

 coiled, from which I am inclined to suspect that its embryonic 

 volution may have been reversed. This and the very small size 

 of the species seem to separate it from the typical Loxoneraas 

 and approximate it to Turhonilla. If its apex really was re- 

 versed, it should be placed in the latter genus, with the name 

 written Turhonilla attenuata var. semicostata. 



Locality and jJosition. Shale over the coal-bed at Danville, 

 Illinois. 



MTJECHISONIA OBSOLETE, Meek. 



Shell small, conical; spire moderately prominent, with lateral 

 slopes, straight, or sometimes very slight!}' concave a little above 

 the middle, rather attenuated near the apex ; volutions about ten, 

 compactly coiled, and regularly and gradually increasing in size 

 from the apex, compressed convex ; last one not enlarged, or more 

 produced below than in proportion to the general increase in the 

 size of the others, somewhat prominently rounded, but not even 

 subangular below the middle; aperture subrhombic, being a 

 little longer than wide, angular above, apparently angular or ef- 

 fuse on the inner side below, and rather abruptl}' rounded on the 

 outer side belov/ the middle, while the arcuate character of the 

 columella gives a rounded appearance to the middle of the inner 

 side ; suture deepl}^ impressed ; spiral band very obscure, being 

 flat, even with the surface, and onlj' defined by the faintest possi- 

 ble impressed line along its upper and lower margins. Surface 

 almost entirely smooth, but showing, when closely examined, very 

 obscure traces of marks of growth curving strongly backward as 

 the}' approach the spiral band, which passes around rather less 

 than, its own breadth above the suture on the volutions of the spire. 



Length of largest specimen, 0.95 inch; breadth, O-St inch. 



This species will be at once distinguished from the last, by its 

 shorter and more compactly coiled volutions, and almost entirely 

 smooth surface, on which no traces of revolving lines, or of the 

 distinct regular lines seen on that shell, occur. It also wants 

 the impressed line immediately below the suture of 3L loxone- 

 moides. It is very peculiar in having the revolving band almost 

 entirely obsolete. 



Locality and position, same as last. 

 1871.] 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PLEUROTOMAEIA TEXTILIGERA, Meek. 



Shell attaining a medium or somewhat larger size, turbinate or 

 rhombic, suboval in general outline, with height a little greater 

 than the breadth; spire depressed conical; volutions four or five, 

 flattened exactly on a line with the slope of the spire from the apex 

 to near the middle of the last turn, where there is more or less 

 defined angle; last turn large, somewhat ventricose below the 

 angle, and produced so as to make this angle near the middle of 

 the entire bulk of the shell ; umbilical region a little excavated, 

 the excavation apparently being continued as a small perforation 

 up into the axis ; aperture, as inferred from sections of the body 

 volution, obliquely rhombic-oval ; suture merely linear, or some- 

 times very narrowly channelled between the middle volutions; 

 spiral band occupying, and slightly truncating, the angle of the 

 body volution, where it is flat or a little concave, and passing 

 around immediately^ above the suture on the volutions of the 

 sphere, excepting on some of the upper turns, where it seems to 

 sink nearly or quite below the suture line. Surface very neatly 

 cancellated by distinct, regular, curved, threadlike transverse and 

 revolving lines, of about equal size and distance apart, the former 

 becoming much finer and arched backward in crossing the band. 



Height of a large specimen, 1.42 inches ; breadth of revolving 

 band on body volution, 0.10 inch; angle of spire, 10° to 80°. 



I was for some time inclined to think this might be the form 

 described by Dr. White and Mr. Whitfield, from the same horizon 

 at Burlington, Iowa, under the name Pleiwotomaria Mississipi- 

 ensis, but on comparison with a sketch of the t3'pical specimen 

 in the Museum of the University of Michigan, sent to me by Prof. 

 Winchell, I find it to be quite distinct. Thet37Je specimens of P. 

 31ississi2nensis are natural casts, but Prof. Winchell's sketches 

 show that they differ from casts of the species under considera- 

 tion, in having the angle of the body volution continued on those 

 of the spire distinctly above the suture, so as to give them a tur- 

 reted appearance instead of being all flattened exactly on a line 

 with the slope of the spire. It also has the spire more elevated 

 than that of our shell, and the upper slope of the body volution 

 concave instead of flat. Indeed, White and Whitfield's species is 

 more nearly allied to P. tabulata of Conrad, from the Coal-mea- 

 sures, than it is to that under consideration. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



Xjocality and position. Medina, Ohio. Waverley group of the 

 Carboniferous, where it seems to be quite abundant. 



PLETJROTOMARIA GTJRLEYI, Meek. 



Shell small, with breadth somewhat greater than its height ; 

 spire depressed-conical, slightl}^ obtuse at the immediate apex ; 

 volutions five and a half, convex, and near the apex rounded, but 

 becoming nearly rectangular farther down, the angle being at the 

 middle of those of the spire, and passing around above the middle 

 of the body whorl, which is rather convex but not much produced 

 below ; upper side of all the volutions (excepting the rounded ones 

 near the apex) sloping a little and flattened or slightly concave 

 from a linear revolving carina just below the suture, outward to the 

 mesial angle, below which the outer side is verticallj^ flattened and 

 smooth ; suture canaliculate ; revolving band very narrow, rather 

 distinctly concave, with a linear ridge or minute carina along each 

 margin passing around upon or just above the mesial angle; 

 umbilicus very small. Surface on the inner side of the body vo- 

 lution ornamented by about fourteen distinct raised revolving 

 lines, the upper of which are somewhat larger than the others, 

 and on the upper slope above the mesial angle, by three or four 

 very small revolving lines ; while the small rounded whorls near 

 the apex are each occupied by about six revolving lines ; striae of 

 groAvth yQvy minute, and, on the upper slope and flattened outer 

 side of the whorls, very strongly and abruptly curved backward to 

 the band, so as to indicate an unusuall}^ profound, rapidly widen- 

 ing sinus iu the lip. Aperture wider than high, and obliquely 

 subrhombic in form. 



Height, 0.17 inch ; breadth, 0.20 inch ; slopes of spire straight; 

 divergence of same nearly rectangular. 



This little shell has much the form and general appearance of 

 P. Graymllensis, N. & P., but ma}' be distinguished at a glance 

 by the differences in the details of its sculpturing ; and particu- 

 larl}' by the smooth vertically flattened outer side of its volutions, 

 on which the lines of growth are seen, by the aid of a magnifier, 

 to be much more obliquely curved backward than those on the 

 corresponding part of P. Grayinllensis. It must be very rare, as 

 I have seen only the single typical specimen among all of the Coal- 

 measure fossils of the western States and Territories that have 

 ever come under my observation. 

 1871.] 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



The typical specimen is beautifully iiiincralized by brilliant iron 

 pyrites, and was discovered by Mr. William Gurley, of Danville, 

 Illinois, in honor of whom I have named the species. 



Locality and i^osition. From the shale over the Danville coal- 

 bed, Danville, Illinois. 



COLLECTIONS FROM MISSOURI, WYOMING, TEXAS, &c. 



AVICULOPECTEN ? WILLIAMSI, Meek. 



Shell small, subcircular, convex lenticular not oblique; hinge 

 shorter than the antero-posterior diameter of the valves; anterior 

 and posterior margins rounding regularly into the rounded base; 

 beaks a little nearer the posterior than the anterior extremity' of 

 the hinge. Right valve rather distinctly- convex, the greatest 

 convexity being in the middle; anterior ear of moderate size, 

 shorter than the anterior margin, rather acutely rounded at the 

 extremit}', compressed so as to be distinctl}'' separated from the 

 swell of the umbo, and defined from the margin below, b^^ a mode- 

 rately deep angular sinus ; posterior ear a little smaller than the 

 anterior, and, although compressed, less distinctly defined from 

 the convexity of the umbonal region, considerably shorter than 

 the posterior margin, and nearly rectangular at its extremity', but 

 with its posterior margin slightly sinuous. Left valve a little 

 more convex than the right, but otherwise similar, unless thei*e 

 is some difference in the ears, which are not known. Surface of 

 both valves smooth or only with \e.\'y fine concentric strioe, ex- 

 cepting on the anterior ear, which (at least on the right valve) 

 is marked by a few small radiating costre. (Hinge unknown.) 



Height and length, or antero-posterior diameter, each 0.53 inch; 

 length of hinge, 0.35 inch ; convexity, about 0.32 inch. 



As I have not seen the hinge of this little shell, I cannot be 

 sure whether or not it belongs to the genus Amculopecten proper. 

 Its nearl}-^ equivalve form, and slightly larger anterior ear, to- 

 gether with its rather prominent anterior margin, lead me to 

 think it Avill probably be found not to belong to that genus, when 

 all of its characters can be known. I therefore suspect that it 

 may have to be called Strehlopteria WiUiamn, as the external 

 peculiarities mentioned seem to indicate affinities to the types 

 upon which Prof. McCoy proposed to found his genus Strehlopteria. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



Specificallj^, it seems to be more neni'ly allied to Aviculopeden 

 neglectus { = Pecten neglectus^ Geinitz) from the Coal-measures, 

 than to any other form known to me. It has much the same 

 form, and agrees in having the body part of both valves smooth, 

 and the ears costated, or at any rate the anterior one of the right 

 valve. It has a rather shorter hinge, however, more convex 

 valves, and a rather more rounded general outline, with less deeply 

 sinuous margins under the ears; while it attains a somewhat 

 larger size. It may be regarded as the Lower Carboniferous rep- 

 resentative of that Coal-measure species, as many of the other 

 forms from this horizon represent species in the Coal-measures. 



The specific name is given in honor of Dr. G. A. Williams, of 

 Boonville, Missouri, to whom I am indebted for the tj'pical 

 specimens. 



Locality and position. Chouteau Springs, Boon County, Mis- 

 souri; from the beds called the Chouteau Limestone in the Geo- 

 logical Reports of that State, but now known to belong to the 

 same horizon as the upper part of the Waverley group of Ohio. 



SPIRIFER (TEIGONOTRETA?) TEX ANUS, Meek. 



Shell scarcely attaining a medium size, ver}' gibbous in the 

 adult, varying from subquadrate or subglobose to longitudinally 

 subovate, the widest part being generally in advance of the middle, 

 and the length greater than the breadth ; hinge line short, or in 

 young individuals scarcely equalling the breadth of the valves, and 

 in the adult often proportionally very decidedly shorter, some- 

 times obtusely angular at the extremities, while in the more gib- 

 bous individuals its extremities do not project be3'ond the lateral 

 slopes; anterior margin often somewhat emarginate in the middle. 

 Dorsal valve truncato-subcircular or subquadrate and moderately 

 convex; beak incurved with the narrow area, but not prominent ; 

 mesial elevation commencing as a small simple plication at the 

 beak, but rapidly widening and becoming more prominent and 

 angular, with, on each side, several small costre, which divide so 

 as to form altogether 14 to 16 at the front; lateral slopes having 

 at the beak each two or three plications or costae, which farther 

 forward divide so as to form as many fascicles, beyond which the 

 costae become uniform, smaller, and number about 9 on each side 



isn.] 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of the mesial fold and sinus. Ventral valve more gibbous than 

 the other, and strongly arched from beak to front; beak very 

 prominent in the adult, always point and distinctly curved back- 

 ward over the hinge; cardinal area moderate, well defined, ex- 

 tending to the extremities of the hinge, directed backward and 

 strongly curved with the beak ; foi'amen slightly wider at the 

 hinge than its height, open nearly or quite to the apex, and pro- 

 vided with a distinct marginal furrow on each side ; mesial sinus 

 angular, commencing small at the beak, but widening and deepen- 

 ing very rapidly to the front, where it is very profound, and ter- 

 minates in a strongly curved triangular projection that fits into a 

 corresponding sinus in the margin of the other valve; surface cos- 

 tated as in the other valve, the costse in the sinus being smaller 

 than those on the lateral slopes; fine, rather obscure undulating 

 stride, and near the front and lateral margins a few stronger marks 

 of growth traverse the valves parallel to the free margins ; while 

 numerous small, rather scattering but regularly disposed granules, . 

 apparently the remaining bases of minute spines, may be seen on 

 the whole surface of w^ell-preserved specimens ; Avhich also some- 

 times show traces of extremely minute radiating stria. 



Length of a large gibbous example, 1 inch; breadth, 0.88 inch; 

 convexity, 0.82 inch; length of hinge, 0.51 inch. Smaller speci- 

 mens are proportionally shorter, wider, and less convex, with a 

 lono-er hinge line. 



Small specimens of this species resemble somewhat the more 

 gibbous forms of S. cameratus, with a very short hinge line ; but 

 in the adult the shell becomes proportionally much more elongated 

 anteriorly, more gibbous, and has the beak of the ventral valve 

 so narrow and so much produced and incurved as to give the 

 shell the appearance of a Pentamerus. Its distinctly granular 

 and minutely striated surface, however, will always serve to dis- 

 tinguish even those specimens with the most extended hinge line 

 from any of the analogous gibbous varieties of S. caniarafus. Its 

 granular surface leads me to suspect that it may possibly be a 

 Spiriferina ; but as I have not been able to see any punctures in 

 the substance of the shell, it probably does not belong to that 

 group. Should a more careful examination reveal the punctate 

 structures, however, and the characteristic internal lamina, of 

 course the species will have to be called Spiriferina Texana. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 181 



Compared with foreign forms, this shell seems to be most nearly 

 like the extremely narrow and elongated variety of S. duplicosta. 

 Phillips, as illustrated by Mr. Davidson's figure, 8, pi. iv., Mongr. 

 British Carb. Brachiojioda. It is much more gibbous, however, 

 with a decidedly more prominent and more angular mesial sinus, 

 while its surface granules and minute striffi serve to distinguish 

 it. Although its mesial fold has a vei'y angular appearance, a 

 careful examination shows it to be very slightly flattened, or even 

 faintly furrowed along its prominent middle; while there is some- 

 times a faint indication of a slightly more prominent rib in the 

 middle of the angular sinus of the other valve. 



Locality and jDOsition. Young County, Texas ; where it was 

 foiind hy Mr. H. E. Roessler associated with Coal-measure fossils- 



I have never seen it from any of the western localities north of 

 Texas. 



CAMPELOMA (MELANTHO) MACROSPIRA, Meek. 



Shell attaining a large size, thick and strong, elongate-subovate; 

 spire much elevated; volutions five, convex but not rounded, in- 

 creasing gradually in size, excepting the last one, which is more 

 abruptly enlarged, oblique, and somewhat produced below; suture 

 stronglj' defined; aperture ovate, nearly or quite half the length 

 of the shell ; inner lip thick and more or less reflected in the adult, 

 but leaving uncovered a rather distinct umbilical impression. Sur- 

 face with only moderate]}^ distinct marks of growth. 



Length of an adult, 1.10 inches; breadth, 1.10 inches. 



Specimens of this species have been brought by various explor- 

 ing parties, during the last eight or ten years, from the Bear River 

 country, Utah; but always in too imperfect a condition to show 

 their characters clearlj', until some recently brought in. These 

 show it to resemble, when not distorted, an abnormally elongated 

 specimen of C. {Melanfho) integra, Say, figured by Mr. Binney in 

 his Smithsonian monograph, part iii., p. 49, excepting that its 

 volutions are less convex, its spire a little narrower below, and 

 its bod}^ volution and suture more oblique. Its inner lip is also 

 less oppressed to the columella, so as to leave a decided larger 

 and deeper umbilical impression. It is likewise a thicker, stronger 

 shell than any of the varieties of C. decisa I have ever seen, being 

 as thick as C. ponderosa^ if not thicker. 



isn.] 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



I have sometimes been inclined to think Prof. Hall's Turbo 

 paludinseformia^ of Fremont's Report, might have been founded 

 upon a young or imperfect specimen of this species, but the fact 

 that that shell occurs in a yellowish-gra}' limestone showing 

 sometimes an oolitic structure, and also containing Prof. Hall's 

 Cerithium nochdosum (a true Goniobasis), shows that it must 

 belong to a different horizon from the shell here under considera- 

 tiou, "which comes from the oldest tertiary beds of the Bear River 

 country, holding, according to Dr. Haj^den's examinations, a 

 position below the yellowish-gray limestone beds of that region. 



Locality and position. Gilmore, Wyoming (Mr. Durkee) ; Bear 

 River near the mouth of Sulphur Creek, Utah (Col. Simpson); 

 and at various localities in the Bear River countrj^ (Dr. Hayden). 

 It is always associated with Corbula pryriformis, PyrguUfera 

 humerosa^ Corbicula Durkei^ and Unio prisons ; none of which 

 have been identified among the specimens from the higher beds 

 of that district. 



VIVIPAEIJS? WYOMINGENSIS, Meek. 



Shell obliquely conoid-subovate; spire conical, with slightly 

 convex slopes; apex rather pointed; volutions six, those of the 

 spire obliquely compressed convex, last one large, a little com- 

 pressed on the upper slope, but rounding over the middle, and 

 somewhat produced below; suture Avell defined, but not deep; 

 aperture ovate; lip not thickened on the inner side below, and 

 apparently very faintl}" dilated around the outer side, at the 

 immediate margin. Surface with rather regular, distinct, oblique 

 lines of growth, that are crossed, near the upper margins of the 

 volutions, by fine, regular, revolving stria?. Axis apparently 

 sometimes very slightly perforated. 



Length, 1.45 inches; breadth, 1.15 inches; height of aperture, 

 about 0.90 inch; breadth of do., about O.GO inch; divergence of 

 slopes of the spire, 0.72°. 



The specimens of this shell in the collection are mainly broken 

 or distorted casts. One of the latter, however, is very nearly 

 perfect, while some of the other specimens retain more or less of 

 the shell itself. From the strong, regularly arranged strife of 

 o-i'owth, seen on some of the latter, and apparently some indica- 

 tions of a slight reflection of the outer lip, 1 was led to think it a 

 land shell, probably belonging to some of the elevated types 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



of the Helicidse^ with which I am not familiarl}' acquaiiitecl. 

 Another reason for snspecting that this might be the case is, that 

 we have from the same formation, somewhat farther northward, 

 another simiLar but more depressed form {H.veterna^ M,), which 

 has the same kind of surface-markings, with a slightly but un- 

 mistakably reflexed outer lip; while this latter shell stands, as it 

 were, exactly intermediate in form between the still more de- 

 pressed H. Leidyi, H. & M., from the White River territory', 

 and that under consideration. That these latter two shells (//. 

 Leidyi and H. veterna) really belong to some section of the genus 

 Helix, there seems to be no reason to doubt. 



Although believing the form under consideration to be related 

 to the two species last above mentioned, its unusually elevated 

 spire left me in doubt respecting its affinities. Consequently I 

 sent the best specimen in the collection (which, however, is a cast 

 retaining none of the shell) to Mr. Tryon, of Philadelphia, who 

 has studied the existing land and fresh-water Gasteropoda with 

 much care, and requested him to give me the benefit of his opinion 

 in regard to its relations; and he writes that he doubts the pro- 

 priety of viewing it as a land shell, or at least that he thinks that 

 if it be, it cannot belong to an}- of the existing North American 

 groups. He rather inclines to think it a Viviparus allied to V. 

 Joponica^ a species now inhabiting the streams of Japan. It 

 certainly has much the form of that species, though more de- 

 pressed. 



Without being entirely sure that it belongs to that genus, I have 

 concluded to refer the species provisional!}^ to Viviparus. If a 

 land shell, it would seem to be related to some section of the 

 genus Gochlosfyla, though probably not even then belonging to 

 any of the recent groups ranged under the same. 



Locality and position. Henry's and Black's forks. Church 

 Buttes, &c., Wyoming; Middle Territory. 



ISOCARDIA? HODGEI, Meek. 



Shell cordate-subtrigonal, very gibbous; length and height 

 nearly equal ; ' beaks elevated, gibbous strongly involute, and 

 placed in advance of the middle ; posterior dorsal side of valves 

 convex; incurved and sloping rather abruptly backward from near 

 the umboues; anterior side very abruptly truncated by a broad, 

 well-defined, large concave, cordate lunule, extending with the 

 1871.] 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



curve of the beaks to their points, and downward to the anterior 

 basal angle; while within this area there is a smaller, deep, and 

 sharply defined impression, or second lunule, under the beaks; 

 basal margin forming a nearl}' semiovate curve from the lower ex- 

 tremity of the large lunule to the posterior end of the valves. 

 Surface ornamented by small, nearly regular radiating costse, 

 separated hy rather broader furrows ; the whole being crossed by 

 larger concentric ridges and furrows, which become smaller, more 

 regular, and rather more distinct on the large lunule, where there 

 are no radiating costse. 



Length and height, each 1 inch; convexity, 0.86 inch. 



Of this curious form I have seen but one specimen, wliich is in 

 the condition of an internal cast. The shell itself must be ver}" 

 thin, as the surface-markings are quite distinct on the cast. In 

 general form, and its strongly incurved beaks, it reminds one of 

 Isocardia, but its radiating costoe, and very large lunule-like 

 cordate impression occupying the whole anterior end of the shell, 

 are peculiar characters, I believe unknown in that genus. In 

 addition to these features, its hinge would seem to have been 

 without the teeth of Isocardia, so far as can be determined from 

 the internal cast. From these facts I strongl}' suspect that it will 

 be found to belong to an undescribed genus. If so, I would 

 propose for it the name Procardia, in allusion to the distinctly 

 heart-shaped impression occupying the whole anterior end. This 

 species is evidently related to Cardium ? decussatum, Mantell, 

 and must belong at least to the same group. It is much smaller, 

 however, and differs specifically in having mere radiating lines, 

 instead of broad costce. 



I am under obligations to Dr. Newberry for the use of the only 

 specimen I have seen, which was given to him b}^ Prof. J. T. 

 Hodge, who bi'ought it from the Upper Missouri countr3\ 



Locality and position. Mr. Hodge discovered the typical 

 specimen in a band of iron ore that extends along tlie U2)per 

 Missouri for some distance, near the Great Bend in the Fort 

 Pierre group. 



[August 15, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



NOTICE OF A NEW BEACHIOPOD FEOM THE LEAD BEAEING ROCKS 

 AT MINE LA MOTTE, MISSOURI. 



BY F. B. MEEK. 

 LINGULELLA LAMBORNI, Meek. 



Fis:. 4. 



Fiir. 1. 



Fi2;. 3 



1. Lingulella? Lamhorni; being a view of the area and interior of a ventral valve, en- 

 larged to 2)^ diameters: s, s, are lateral internal scars, and (a) the area with its mesial 

 furrow for the peduncle. 



2. Lingulella Davisii; being an internal cast of the dor.'ial valve, with a view of area of 

 the ventral valve and its mesial furrow. Nat. size, after Mr. Davidson. 



3. An outline internal view of another specimen of same species, showing internal scars as 

 understood by Mr. Salter; C, being supposed to represent the anterior retractors ; and B, on 

 each side, the sliding muscles. Nat. size, after Mr. Salter. 



4. Lingulepis pinniformis; being a view of internal cast of a ventral valve, showing the 

 trilobate scar within. Enlarged about 2 diam. From N. Y. Kegeuts's 16th State Cab., Nat. 

 Hist. Report, pi. 6, tig. 16, for comparison with fig. 1. 



Shell small, compressed, broad-subovate, being about one-fifth 

 longer than wide. Ventral valve pointed at the beak, from which 

 the nearly straight lateral slopes diverge at an angle of about 

 35°, to near the middle of each lateral margin, from near which 

 these margins round forward into the regularly rounded front ; 

 false cardinal area well developed, and extending back with the 

 beak nearly one-fourth the length of the valve behind that of the 

 other valve, and having its mesial furrow for the peduncle well 

 defined, witli on each side of it a diverging longitudinal line ex- 

 tending from the apex of the beak, so as to form the margins of 

 the false area, which is transversely striated ; interior marked by 

 numerous little irregularlj' scattered pits, which are largest pos- 

 teriorly and diminish in size forward ; Avhile near the anterior 

 margin very obscure traces of minute radiating strire are some- 

 times seen ; internal scars presenting a trilobate appearance, 



1871.] PART XL— 13 




186 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



there being a short mesial rounded lobe nearly reaching the mid- 

 dle of the valve, and near half way between this and each pos- 

 terior lateral margin, there is a long, slender, diverging lateral 

 lobe or impression. Dorsal valve shorter than the other, and 

 subcircular in form, its beak being apparently a little truncated ; 

 interior showing the same pitted appearance seen in the other 

 valve ; visceral and muscular impressions unknown. Surface of 

 both valves marked bj' fine concentric strise. 



Length, 0.26 inch ; breadth, 0.22 inch ; convexity, about 0.04 

 inch. 



From the foregoing description and illusti'ations, it will be 

 seen that this shell agrees exactly in the nature of its pitted inte- 

 rior, and in its furrow in a triangular false area, for the recep- 

 tion of the peduncle, with the tj'pe of Mr. Salter's genus Lingu- 

 lella (L. Davisii, Salter). The scars of the interior, however, do 

 not agree with the muscular impressions as made out by Mr. 

 Salter (see the cut fig. 3, reproduced from one of Mr. Salter's 

 figures). Still, as Mr. Davidson says, he could not see these 

 impressions as Mr. S. represented them, even on carefully exam- 

 ining his typical specimens ; it is quite probable that the latter 

 gentleman, although a careful, conscientious observer, may not 

 have made them out exactly right, especially as they are said by 

 Mr. Davidson to be very dimly defined. 



I have represented, in fig. 1, these scars of the interior of the 

 ventral valves as they appear to be in the form under considera- 

 tion, though they are obscurely defined, and seem to me to be 

 rather the impression of the visceral sack, than those ofthe mus- 

 cles. By comparing these impressions, as represented by the ac- 

 companying fig. 1, with those seen in the type of the genus Lin- 

 gulepis of Hall (reproduced by the annexed fig. 4), it will be 

 seen that they agree very nearl}-. I therefore suspect that Lmgu- 

 lep)is and Lingulella may yet be found to have been proposed for 

 the same genus, as we have here a shell witli the area and fur- 

 row for the peduncle of Lingulella^ possessing scars of the inte- 

 rior corresponding to those of Lingulepis. If so, our species 

 will have to be called Lingulepis Lamborni, as the latter generic 

 name has priority of date. It is barely possible, however, that 

 our shell ma}' belong to an intermediate undefined genus, possess- 

 ing some of the characters of both of the genera mentioned ; 

 especially as the type of Lingulepis shows no traces of the pitted 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18T 



interior seen in our shell and the type of Lingulella; and so far as 

 I have been able to determine, from examining casts of Lingu- 

 lepis, they do not appear to have possessed a false area with a 

 furrow for the peduncle, seen in the shell under consideration and 

 in Mr. Salter's type. 



Compared with Mr. Salter's tj'pe (L. Davisii), as illustrated by 

 Mr. Davidson, our shell will be readily distinguished specifically, 

 by its much smaller size, proportionally shorter form, more 

 pointed beak, and less straightened latei-al margins. The inte- 

 rior of its ventral valve also shows no traces of a small ridge 

 indicated by a linear furrow in the internal casts of Mr. Salter's 

 sijecies. 



Locality and position. The specimens were discovered by 

 Robert H. Lamborn, Esq. (after whom I have named the spe- 

 cies), in a thin bead of shale between two beds of limestone 

 bearing heavy dejjosits of galena, at Mine La Motte, Madison 

 Co., Missouri. They were sent b}^ that gentleman to Prof. Leidy, 

 of Philadelphia, and by him referred to me for study. I am not 

 acquainted with the age of the rocks at Mine La Motte, never 

 having seen any other fossils from there, but from the affinities 

 of this single fossil to Lingulella from the Lingula flags of Wales, 

 and to Lingulepis from the Potsdam sandstone of Minnesota, it 

 would seem that these lead deposits belong to a much older 

 period than the Galena and Dubuque lead-bearing limestone, of 

 Illinois and Iowa, although the latter is known to belong to the 

 Lower Silurian. 



18T1.] 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DESCRIPTION OF THREE NEW SPECIES OF EXOTIC UNIONIDJE. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 Unio JeiFreysianus. 



Testa crebre et leviter sulcata, regal ariter elliptica, compressa, 

 parum insequilaterali; valvulis crassiusculis, antice parum crassi- 

 oribus; natibus prominulis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, polita, 

 evadiata; dentibus cardinalibiis parvis, lamellatis, obliquis; lateral- 

 ibus loiigis, lamellatis subrectis et in utvoqiie valvule simplicibus ; 

 margarita vel alba vel salmonis colore tincta. 



Hah. Australia, C. M. Wheatley. 



Unio Stevensii. 



Testa bialata, valde plicata, triangulari, compressa, valde inae- 

 quilaterali; valvulis crassiusculis; antice crassioribus; natibus 

 vix promineutibus; epidermide tenebroso-coruea, eradiata; denti- 

 bus cardinalibus parvis sulcatisque; lateralibus longis, lamellatis 

 subcurvisque; margarita alba et iridescente. 



Hah. Yuruari River, Tributary to Essequebo River, Guiana, 

 R. P. Stevens. 



Anodonta ezilior. 



Testa alata, Irevi, obovata, inflata, valde injequilaterali; valvulis 

 exilissimis ; natibus prominulis, ad apices minute undulata ; epi- 

 dermide vel olivacea vel brunnea, polita et eradiata; margarita 

 coerulea et valde iridescente. 



Hah. Mexico, C. M. Wheatley. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 189 



DESCRIPTIONS OF TWENTY NEW SPECIES OF TJNIONES OF THE UNITED 



STATES. 



BY ISAAC LEA. 

 TJnio lawii. 



Testa laevi, obliqua, clavfeformi, antice tumida, valde insequi- 

 laterali, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis crassis, antice aliquanto 

 crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus, fere teriniualibus ; epider- 

 mide flavida, radiis interruptis iudutis ; deutibus cardinalibus 

 parviusculis, acuminatis creuulatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, 

 subcurvis lamellatisque ; margarita argentea et iridesceute. 



Hah. Tennessee River, Tuscumbia, Alab., B. Pybas. Tenn. 

 River, Dr. Edgar. Holston River, Miss A. E. Law and Prof. 

 Cope. 



Vnio appressus. 



Testa Isevi, triangulari, securiformi, valde ingequilaterali, antice 

 rotundata, postice subangulata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 aliquanto crassioribus; natibus prominentibus; epidermide flavida, 

 radiis interruptis postice indutis ; dentibus cardinalibus parvius- 

 culis, compressis creuulatisque; lateralibus sublongis, curvis lamel- 

 latisque ; margarita argentea et aliquanto iridescente, 



Hab. Tuscumbia, Alab., B. Pybas and J. G. Anthony. Holston 

 River, Miss Law and C. M. Wheatley. 



ITnio validus. 



Testa laevi, triangulari, inflata, insequilaterali, antice rotunda, 

 postice obtuse angulata ; valvulis crassis, antice aliquanto crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus prominentibus, ad apices undulatis ; epidermide 

 olivacea, valde radiata; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, compressis 

 creuulatisque ; lateralibus sublongis, crassis subcurvisque ; mar- 

 garita argentea et iridescente. 



Hab. Duck River, Tenn., Dr. Powell. Clinch River, Pres. 

 Estabrook. Holston River, Dr. Edgar and Miss Law. 



Unio litus. 



Testa Isevi, elliptica, subcompressa, ingequilaterali, antice rotun- 

 data, postice subbiangulata ; valvulis subtenuibus, antice crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus prominulis ; epidermide crocea, eradiata ; dentibus 

 cardinalibus parvis compressisque ; lateralibus sublongis, sub- 

 1871.] 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



curvis lamellatisque ; margarita salmonis colore tiucta et elegan- 

 tissime iridescente. 



Hob. Cahaba River, Shelby Co., Alab., E. R. Schowalter, M.D. 



Unio simulans. 



Testa la3vi, obliqua, subcompressa, injequilaterali, antice rotuii- 

 data, postice obtuse angulata ; valvulis crassiusculis, antice crassi- 

 oribus ; uatibus prominulis ; epidermide teuebroso-fusca, eradiata ; 

 deutibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis crenulatisque; margarita 

 alba et iridescente. 



Hah. Cababa River, Shelby Co., Alab., E. R. Schowalter, M.D. 



TJnio Cahabensis. 



Testa valde tuberculata, qnadrata, compressa, subasquilaterali, 

 antice rotunda, postice truncata; valvulis subcrassis, antice crassi- 

 oribus ; natibus subprominentibus ; epidermide crocea, eradiata ; 

 dentibus cardinalibus subgrandis, compressis crenulatisque ; mar- 

 garita salmonis colore tincta et elegantissime iridescente. 



Hah. Cahaba River, Shelby Co., Alab., E. R. Schowalter, M.D. 



Unio acuens. 



Testa Iffivi, triangulari, compressa, valde ineequilaterali, antice 

 rotundata, postice subbiangulata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 crassioribus ; uatibus prominentibus ; epidermide luteola, radiis 

 iuterruptis ; dentibus cardinalibus subcrassis, subcompressis cre- 

 nulatisque; lateralibus subcrassis, brevis subrectisque; margarita 

 alba et iridescente. 



Hah. Holston River, near Concord, E. Tenn., Miss Law. 



TJnio crudus. 



Testa laevi, subrotunda, comijressa, insequilaterali, antice 

 rotunda, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis subcrassis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus prominentibus; epidermide rugosa, tene- 

 broso-fusca, eradiata; dentibus cardinalibus subgrandibus, sub- 

 compressis crenulatisque ; lateralibus crassis, subbrevis subcur- 

 visque ; margarita argentea et parum iridescente. 



Hah. French Broad River, E. Tenn., Pres. Lindsley. Swamp 

 Creek, Murray Co., Geo., Maj. Downie. Holston River, Miss 

 Law and C. M. Wheatle3\ 



ITnio Tuscumbiensis. 



Testa Isevi, triangulari, tumida, ad latere planulata, intequi- 

 laterali, antice subtruncata, postice obtuse angulata ; valvulis 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 191 



crassis, antice crassioribus ; natibus elevatis, subretusis ; epider- 

 mide luteo-oliva, perradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, 

 subcoinpressis crenulatisque ; lateralibus curtis, sul)erassi& sub- 

 rectisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hah. Tuscumbia, Alab., L. B. Thornton, Esq. Holston River, 

 E. Tenn., Dr. Edgar. 



TJnio dispansus. 



Testa Isevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde iuaeqnilaterali, antice 

 rotunda, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 crassioribus ; natibus j^rominulis, fere terminalibus ; epidermide 

 tenebroso-olivacea, perradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parviusculis, 

 tuberculatis et in utroque valvule duplicibus; lateralibus prae- 

 longis, lamellatis subrectisque ; margarita purpurea et valde 

 iridescente. 



Hah. East Tennessee, Dr. Edgar. 



Unio Pealei. 



Testa Iffivi, rotunda, valde inflata, subglobosa, valde insequi- 

 laterali, antice et postice rotundata; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibus elevatis, tumidis, subretusis; epidermide 

 luteo-olivacea, dilute perradiata; dentibus cardinalibus jjarvius- 

 culis, subconicis; lateralibus longis crassis subrectisque; mar- 

 garita argentea et iridescente. 



Hah. Topeka, Kansas, Chas. W. Peale. 

 TJnio globatus. 



Testa Itevi, globosa, valde intequilaterali ; valvulis crassis, 

 antice crassioribus; natibus valde inflatis, parum elevatis; epider- 

 mide tenebroso-fusca; dentibus cardinalibus percrassis et valde 

 corrugatis; lateralibus curtis, crassis, parum curvatis corruga- 

 tisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hah. Holston River, Dr. Edgar. Etowah River, Geo., Thos. 

 Bland. 



TJnio sutglobatus. 



Testa Iffivi, suborbiculata, insequilaterali ; valvulis percrassis ; 

 natibus tumidis, elevatis, iucurvis ; epidermide tenebroso-fusca, 

 ad apices maculata et radiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvius- 

 culis, compressis sulcatisque ; lateralibus crassis, curvatis corru- 

 gatisque ; margarita argentea et iridescente. 



Hah. Florence, Alab., B. Pybas. Nashville, Tenn., Pres. J, 

 B. Lindsley. 

 1871.] 




192 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



TJnio recurvatus. 



Testa Itevi, rotundata, valde inflata, valde inagquilaterali ; an- 

 tice rotundata, postice obtuse augulata ; valvulis crassis, antice 

 crassioribus; natibiis valde prominentibus et recurvatis; epider- 

 mide fusca, eradiata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, crassis sulca- 

 tisque ; lateralibus percrassis, curtis, subcurvis corrugatisque ; 

 marofarita aroentea et iridescente. 



Hah. Tenn. River, J. G. Anthony. Holston River, E. Tenn., 

 Miss Law. 



TJnio obuncus. 



Testa losvi, triangulari, subinflata, ad basim arcuata, insequi- 

 laterali, antice rotunda, postice obtuse angulata ; valvulis crassis, 

 antice crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide dilute 

 oliva, perradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis corrugatisque; 

 lateralibus crassis, lamellatis corrugatisque ; margarita argentea 

 et iridescente. 



Bab. Tuscumbia, Alab. Holston River, E. Tenn., Miss Law. 



TJnio radiosus. 



Testa Ifevi, subtriangulari, subinflata, subequilaterali, antice 

 rotundata, postice obtuse angulari; valvulis crassiusculis, antice 

 parum crassioribus ; natibus prominentibus ; epidermide luteo- 

 oliva, perradiata; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, compressis crenu- 

 latisque ; lateralibus subcrassis, lamellatis subrectisque; margarita 

 alba et iridescente. 



Hah. Holston River, E. Tenn., C. M, Wlieatley and Miss Law. 



TJnio circumactus. 



Testa Iffivi, rotundata, ad apices inflata, ad basim compressa, 

 inffiquilaterali ; valvulis crassis, antice crassioribus; natibus ele- 

 vatis recurvatisque ; epidermide vel rufo-fusca vel castanea, raacu- 

 lata et radiata ; dentibus cardinalibus crassis, subcompressis 

 sulcatisque ; lateralibus percrassis, subcurvis corrugatisque ; mar- 

 garita argentea et valde iridescente. 



Hah. Florence, Alab., Rev. G. White. Holston River, Miss 

 Law. 



TJnio radiolus. 



Testa laevi, elliptica, subinflata, valde inrequilaterali, antice 

 rotunda, postice obtuse angulata; valvulis crassiusculis; natibus 

 prominulis, fere terminalibus ; epidermide brunnea, valde radiata; 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 193 



dentibus carclinalibus parvis, siil)compressis creiuilatisque ; late- 

 ralibus longis, lamellatis subcurvisque ; margarita alba et irides- 

 cente. 



Hah. Ogeechee River, Liberty Co., Geo., Major John Le Conte. 



Unio pattinoides. 



Testa loevi, obliqua, subcompressa, valde insequilaterali, antice 

 rotundata, postice obtuse angiilata ; valvulis subcrassis, antice 

 crassoiibus ; natibus subpromiuentibus, fere terminalibus ; epi- 

 dermide Inteo-brunnea, maculata ; dentibus cardinalibus parvis, 

 subcompressis corrugatisque ; margarita argentea et iridesceute. 



Hah. Clinch River, Pres. Estabrook. Holston River, Dr. 

 Edgar and Miss Law. 



Unio Santeeusis. 



Testa lasvi, suboblonga, subinflata, valde insequilaterali, antice 

 rotundata, postice obtuse biaugulata ; valvulis crassiusculis ; 

 natibus prominulis, ad apices minute undulatis; epidermide 

 tenebroso-fusca, nitida et valde radiata; dentibus cardinalibus 

 parvis, compressis et in utroque valvulo duplicibus ; lateralibus 

 longis subcurvisque ; margarita vel purpurea vel salmonis colore 

 tincta et iridesceute. 



Hah. Santee Canal, S. C, Dr. Foreman. Oconee River, Geo., 

 Major J. Le Conte. 



187L] 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



SYNOPSIS OF THE GENUS CHETTUSIA (LOBIVANELLUS) , WITH A 

 DESCEIPTION or A NEW SPECIES. 



BY J. A. OGDEN. 



The species'belonging to the genus Chettusia are recognized by 

 their moderately strong bill, the culmen somewhat depressed at 

 the base, with the sides compressed and grooved for two-thirds 

 their length ; nostrils lateral, basal, with the opening linear ; 

 wings long, with the first, second, and third quills nearly equal 

 and longest ; the shoulder of the wing more or less armed with a 

 tubercle or spine ; tail broad and even ; tarsi moderately long, 

 exceeding the length of the middle toe; toes four; head not 

 crested, and sometimes more or less lobed. 



a. Species with wattles well developed ; tubercle upon the wing 

 prolonged into a spur, or spine ; hind toe short. 



1. C. senegalla (Linn.)- 



Parra senegalla., Linn., Syst. Nat. I., p. 259. 



Vanellus albkajnlla, YieWl, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat. XXXV., p. 205. 



Vanellus sejiegalensis, Sliaw, Gen. Zool. XI., 2, 515. 



Vanelhts strigilatus, Swains., B. of W. Afr. II., p. 241, pi. 27. 



Vanellus albifrons, Kiipp., PI. enl. N. 362; Eeicli., pi. C. figs. 682-83. 



Hab. Western Africa (tSwainson). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



2. C. macropterus (Cuv.). 



V. macropterus, Cuv., In Mus. Paris. 



Cli. cucullatus, Temm., PI. col. 505. 



F. tricolor, Hors., Linn. Trans. XIII. , p. 186. 



Lob. tricolor, Strick. 



Hab. " Indian Archipelago." 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



3. C. lobata (Lath.). 



Tringa lobata, Lath., Ind. Orn. Supp. p. 65. 



V. galUnaceus, Temm., Jard & Selby, 111., Orn. vol. III., pi. 84. 



V. Novcc-Hollandw, Stepp., Cont. of Shaw's Gen. Zool. vol. XL, p. 516. 



V. lobatus, Vieill., Ency. Meth. Orn., pt. III., p. 1075. 



Ch. lobatus, Wagl., Syst. Av., sp. 51. 



Lob. lobatus, Gould., B. of Aust. fol., vol. VI., pi. 9. 



Hab. New South Wales (Gould). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 

 [October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



4. C. personata (Gould.)- 



Lob. personata, Gould., Proc. Zool. Soc, pt. X., p. 113. B. of Aiist. 

 foL, vol. vi., pi. 10; Reich. CIII., 10oo-56. 



Hah. Northern Australia (Gould). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 

 6. C. lateralis (Smith). 



F. lateralis, Smith., Zool. S. Afr., pi, 23, 

 Hab. South Africa (Smith). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



h. Species with wattles not so well cleveloped ; wing armed with 

 a short tubercle, otherwise the same as in the previous species. 



6. C, inornatus (Schlegel.). 



Loh. inornatus, Schlegel., Fauna Jap,, p. 106, pi. 63. 

 V. inornatus, Swains, 

 C. Wagleri, Bonap. 



Hab. India (Jerdon). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



7. C. melanocepliala (RUpp.). 



Lob. melanocephala, Riipp., Syst. Ubers., p. 115, pi. 44. 



Hah. Northern Africa (Riipp.). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



8. C. goensis (Gmel.). 



Parra goensis, Gmel., Syst. Nat, I., p. 706, 

 Lob. goensis, Strick. 

 V. indicus, Bodd. 



Cn. atrogularis, Wagl., Syst. Av. sp. 49; PL enl. 807; Gould, Cent, of 

 Birds, pi. 78. 



Hah. India (Jerdon). 



(Collection of the Academy,) 



9. C. atronuchalis (Blyth.). 



Lob. atronuclialis, Blyth., Journ. Asiatic Soc, of Bengal. 



Hah. Burmah (Blyth.). 



c. Species devoid of wattles at the base of the bill ; tubercle 

 upon the wing rudimental ; otherwise the same as in the previous 

 species. 



10. C. gregaria (Pall.). 



Ch. gregaria, Pallas., Reisel., p. 456, No. 9, 

 CTi. ventralis, Wagl., 111. Ind. Zool., pi. 

 V. Keptuschka, Temm., Gould., B. of Europe, pi. 292. 

 P. cinereus, Blyth,, Journ. Asiatic Soc. of Bengal, p. 587, 1842. 

 Hab. India (Jerdon) ; Europe (Gould); Central Asia (Pallas). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 

 1871.] 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



11. C. leucurus (Licht.)- 



V. leucurus, Liclit., Eversm., Reise. Nach. Bucli, p. 137. 

 V. flavipes, Sav. L' Egypt. ZooL, pi. 6, fig. 2. 



Hah. Middle Asia; N. Africa; rare in India (Blyth.). 



(Collection of the Academy.) 



12. C. crassirostris (Hart.). Cabanus Journal III., p. 427. 

 Hah. Borders of tlie Nile (Hart). 



13. C. aralensis (Eversman.). 



V. aralensis, Evers., Bull. Mosc, 1853, p. 497. 

 Hah. Russia (Evers.). 



14. C. dominicana (Linn.). 



Para dominicana, Linn., Syst. Nat., p. 705. 

 Ch. Brissonii, Wagl., Syst. Av., sp. 55. 



Hah. St. Domingo (Linn.). 



15. C. ludoviciana (Gm.).' 



Parra ludoviciana, Gm., Syst. Nat., p. 706. 



V. miles, Bodd. 



Ch. callceas., Wagl. Syst. Av., sp. 52. 



Hah. Araboina (Forster). 



16. Chettusia nivifrons, nov. sp. Plate I. 



Fore part of head extending to the occiput, including the sides 

 and foreneck white ; the occiput, nape, and breast bluish-black ; 

 the remaining under parts, upper tail coverets, large and small 

 wing coverets are also white ; back and scapulars, light brownish- 

 gray, with the tertiaries darker, slightly glossed with green ; the 

 three first primaries nearly of the same length, and are brownish- 

 black ; the tail brown, inclining to a bluish-black at the tip, ex- 

 cepting the portion under the coverets, which is white ; the base 

 of the bill apparently of an orange color, with the tip black; legs 

 and feet of a reddish hue ; the tibia for about one-half its length 

 free of feathers. 



Dimensions. Total length about 11 inches ; bill, from gape, 1;!^ ; 

 wing 7| ; tail 3| ; tarsi 2| ; middle toe If ; outer toe If ; hind 

 toe ^. 



Hah. " Fazoglou." 



(In the museum of the Academy, from the Rivoli collection.) 



• (The species Nos. 12-15 have not been examined by me.) 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



July 4, 1871. 

 Mr. Mactier in the chair. 

 Eight members present. 



ReynarlcH on Donation of Fossils from Wyoming. — Prof. Leidy 

 directed attention to the collection of fossils presented this evening 

 b}^ Dr. JosejDh K. Corson, stationed at Fort Bridger, Wyoming 

 Territory. The fossils, consisting of remains of mammals, tnrtles, 

 and crocodiles, were obtained at Grizzly Buttes, in the vicinity of 

 Fort Bridger. Among the mammalian fossils are many pertaining 

 to Palseosyops paludosus, consisting of portions of the skull, jaws 

 with and without teeth, articular extremities of the limb bones, 

 etc. Dr. J. Van A. Carter had recently sent to Prof. Leid}- some 

 well-preserved portions of jaws with teeth, of the same animal, from 

 Lodge-pole-trail, thirteen miles from Fort Bridger, and also from 

 Heniy's Fork of Green River. Among the specimens from the 

 latter localit}^, there is the most complete series of the upper molar 

 teeth which he had yet seen. 



The specimens of jaws and teeth indicate a variation in the size 

 of Palseosyops. The molar series of teeth further undergo a 

 rapid reduction in size fi'om behind forwards, so that from isolated 

 specimens of teeth, the smaller anterior molars might readilj- be 

 viewed as pertaining to a smaller species. Prof. Marsh had 

 recently designated what he supposed to be a smaller species of 

 Palseosyops with the name of P. minor., from an inferior molar 

 tooth, "apparently from near the middle of the series." The 

 measurements which he gives to the tooth, ten lines fore and aft, 

 and five lines in front, and five and sixteenths behind, at the 

 summit of the lobes, would apply to the first true molar of P. 

 paludosus., while the last premolar is still smaller. 



In a nearly complete ramus of the lower jaw of P. paludosus., a 

 series of teeth, consisting of the true molars and the two pre- 

 molars in advance, measures G4 lines. Another series of true 

 molars measures 46 lines. These measure in succession fore and 

 aft, 11 lines, 15 lines, and 19 lines. The last premolar, looking 

 like a reduced molar with the hinder lobe proportionately less 

 well developed, measures scarcely 9 lines. 



1871.] 




198 proceedings of the academy of 



July 11. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Sixteen members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication: — 



" Conti'ibntions to the Ilerpetology of Tropical America. No. 

 9." By Edw. D. Cope. 



The publication of pp. 89 to 120 of the Proceedings for 18U was 

 announced. 



The death of Wm. P. Turnbull was announced. 



July 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : — 



"Descriptions of five new species of Crustacea from Mexico." 

 By T. Hale Streets. 



The publication of pp. 121 to 136 of the Proceedings for 18tl 

 was announced. 



August 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirteen members present. 

 The following paper was presented for publication : — 



"Descriptions of New Species of Birds of the Families Troglo- 

 dytidse and Tyrannidse^ By Geo. N. Lawrence. 



The publication of pp. 137 to 152 of the Proceedings for 1811 

 was announced. 



Remarks on Blastodon^ etc. of California. — Prof. Leidy stated 

 that he had recently corresponded with Dr. Lorenzo G. Yates, of 

 Centerville, Alameda Co., California, who had discovered the 

 Mastodon remains to which he had called the attention of the 

 meeting on Sept. Gth, 1810. Dr. Yates writes that in his travels 

 through various portions of California, he had made special search 

 for remains of Mastodon and Elephant. He has noted twenty 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199 



localities of the former, and nine of the latter, most of which he 

 has visited. 



The fragment of a tusk, from Stanislaus Co., referred to Mastodon 

 Shepai-di, Dr. Yates found imbedded in the blutf of a hill about 

 ten feet above the bed of a creek. The hill, upwards of a hundred 

 feet in height, is one of the tertiary hills mentioned in Wliitney's 

 Geological Report, as being scattered over the plain of San 

 Joaquin, at the base of the foot-hills of the Sierra Xevada. 



The remains of the Mastodon of Contra-Costa Co. were obtained 

 from the rock at the base of one of the rounded hills, of tertiary 

 age, mentioned in Whitney's Report, pp. 31, 32, near the edge of 

 the San Joaquin Plains, which skirt along the foot-hills of Monte 

 Diablo. 



A small photograph, accompanying Dr. Yates' letter, represents 

 a much mutilated lower jaw, without the ascending portions poste- 

 riorly, and with straight tusks projecting with an upward direc- 

 tion. The tusks appear to be quite as long as the jaw has been in 

 its complete state. No details of character are given in relation 

 to the specimen. 



Note on Anchitherium. — Prof Leidy also exhibited a specimen 

 recently received from Prof. Hayden, who discovered it on the 

 head waters of the Jefferson Fork of the Missouri River. It 

 consists of a portion of the lower jaw, apparently of a species of 

 Anchitherium, larger than A. Bairdi, and relating in size to a 

 mutilated molar, from John Daj^'s River, Oregon, referred to A. 

 Gondoni (Pr. 1870, 112), and may, perhaps, pertain to the same 

 species. 



On motion the following papers were ordered to be published: — 



1871.] 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



NINTH CONTRIBUTION TO THE HERPETOLOGY OF TROPICAL AMERICA. 



BY E. D. COPE. 



The materials examined, from wliich the present contribution 

 is derived, are contained in six collections, viz: One made by 

 the U. S. Expedition for the exploration and survey of a canal 

 route across the Isthmus of Dai'ien, under Commander Selfridge ; 

 a second by the U. S. Exploring Expedition to survey a canal 

 route across the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, under Captain Shufeldt, 

 made by Dr. T. Hale Streets, who accompanied it as naturalist — 

 which collections were placed in my hands for determination by 

 Prof. Henry, of the Smithsonian Institution ; a third by John 

 Hauxwell, our correspondent at Pebas, Eastern Equador ; and a 

 fourth made in the southeastern part of the Island of Hayti, in 

 the republic of Santo Domingo, by our member, Wm. M. Gabb. 



I. The first of these collections embraces the following species: — 



LACERTILIA. 



Goniodactylus, sp. aff., albigulari. 



Corythophanes, sp. 



Anolis squamulatus, Peters, Monatsb. Pr. Ac. 1863, 145. 



Auricular opening nearly as large as eye-slit; scales smallest; 

 seven rows between orbits, twelve at middle of muzzle, and eleven 

 at middle of lores, the inferior not larger than the rest. No larger 

 supra-orbital and infra-labial scales ; scales of arm, back and tail, 

 one-keeled. 



Green, with seven crossbands, each of a double rOw of blackish 

 spots from axilla to tail, the front very oblique. One anterior 

 similar, extending from the ear to the shoulder. 



This description is introduced for comparison with those of 

 Aiiolis microtus and A. insignis, described a few pages later. 



OPHIDIA, Kuhl. 



Camilla Monotropis. 



Ninia atrata, Hallow., var. with yellow inferior surfaces with median brown band- 



Ophibolus micropholis, Cope. 



Pliocercus euryzonus, Cope. 



Dromicus Ignitus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Herpetodryas carinatus, L., var. 



Thrasops occidentalis, Gthr. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



Himantodes cenclioa, L. 

 Oxyrrhopus occipitoluteus, D- B. 

 Nothopsis rugosus, Cope, gen. et. sp. nov. 



DKOMICUS IGNITUS, Cope. 



Posterior superior maxillary tooth scarcely longer than those 

 prececliug, but separated by a marked interspace. Scales in seven- 

 teen longitudinal series. Form slender, head little distinct. Ros- 

 tral plate scarcely visible from above ; common internasal suture 

 considerably shorter than frontal shield, which is shorter than 

 common suture of occipitals. Length of muzzle to orbit, equal 

 ■width of frontal and one superciliary. Dorsal longer than high. 

 Orbitals 2-2, in one case by median division, in another by infe- 

 rior intercalated between labials. Temporals 1-1^, the first occu- 

 pying the whole space between occipital and seventh labial. Eight 

 superior labials, fourth and fifth in orbit ; nine inferiors ; geneial 

 pairs subequal. Gastrosteges 128; urosteges, 62 -f (the end lost, 

 at least fifteen urosteges wanting). 



Color brown above, blackish along the sides throughout, up to 

 the middle of the fifth row of scales, then a very bright brown, 

 commencing abruptly and shading to a deeper brown on the me- 

 dian region of the back. The light margin becomes a white line 

 on the anterior fifth of the length, which extends to the orbit. 

 Upper lip and throat light yellow, rest of inferior surfaces, dark 

 crimson; a black dot on the end of each gastrostege. Scales 

 dusted with black. Length restored? 15.5 inches; to vent, 10 

 inches. 



This serpent is allied to the D. tseniatus of Peters (Monatsbe- 

 richte, Berl. Ac. 1863, 275), from Mexico. 



NOTHOPSIS RUGOSTJS, Cope, gen. et sp. nov. 



Teeth on all of the usual bones of the mouth, wanting on the 

 premaxillary. Maxillary teeth of equal lengths, entire. Head 

 flat, oval, moderately distinct; body and tail compressed. Uros- 

 teges in two rows, anal shield entire, gastrosteges narrow, angu- 

 late, the ends crossed by a longitudinal groove; pupil round. 

 Head covered with small scales above, except a pair of internasals 

 in contact with nasals and rostral; an isolated median frontal, 

 and a pair of small oval occipitals, each also entirely surrounded 

 by small scales. A single nasal pierced by the nostril; loreals 



18T1.] PART II. — 14 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



like other head scales, orbit surronncled by scales, labials not 

 pitted. One pair of geneials. Scales of body subeqnal, keeled, 

 without apical pores. , 



The above generic characters ^111 indicate to the zoologist a 

 type of whose affinities I have been quite uncertain. Its superficial 

 characters remind one at once of the Peropoda, and the double 

 urosteges suggest the Pythons. Examination shows that it does 

 not possess the essential characters of the division, lacking all 

 external trace of posterior extremities, and having the mandi- 

 ble constructed on the Colubrine type, thus lacking the coro- 

 noid bone. The form of the postfroutal bone is, however, sig- 

 nificant ; it is of considerable size, and sends forwards along the 

 external margin of the frontal a process, as far as the prefrontal. 

 This structure is characteristic of the family Aclwochordidse,^ 

 which embraces the genera Ghersydrus and Achrochordiis. The 

 present genus differs in the possession of ventral shields, where- 

 fore it may be referred to a new family under the name of the 

 NoTHOPiD^. I should not be surprised to find that the genus 

 Xenodermus of Reinhardt belongs to it. 



The allies of this genus, then, are exclusively Old World, and 

 confined to farther India and the Archipelago. 



Cha7\ Specif. — Head rather small ; neck and tail rather slender. 

 Scales of body in twenty-nine rows, all strongly keeled, those of 

 the seven median rows a little broader than the lateral, and more 

 Strongly keeled. The scales of the inferior series are more acute 

 than the superior. A broad shallow groove extends throughout 

 the length, between the keel of the first row and the angle of the 

 gastrosteges. The difference between the dorsal and lateral series 

 of scales is more distinct posteriorly, which, with the angulation 

 of the vertebral line, gives the animal a pentagonal section. The 

 scales of the head are smaller than those of the body, not imbri- 

 cate, and keeled ; but one row separates the orbit from the labials. 

 Muzzle rounded, a little projecting. Rostral plate not visible 

 from above, subtriangular, broader than long. Nasal subparal- 

 jelogrammic, the upper anterior angles nearly meeting above the 

 rostral, the inferior approaching near to the labial margin. Supe- 

 rior labials small, twelve, seventh under orbit ; inferiors fourteen 

 or fifteen, the inferior four in contact with the geneials. First 



' See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1864. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



pair and geneials separated by a median longitudinal groove ; 

 latter plates 2.5 times as long as wide ; I'emaiuder of gular region 

 covered with small scales. Internasals together crescentic, the 

 points extending to behind the nostrils. Frontal broad cordate, 

 the apex posterior ; a half suture from the front divides it. Occi- 

 pitals narrow, length equal from muzzle to frontal, greater than 

 width of latter. They are separated by a single series of small 

 scales, in contact at one point. Gastrosteges 158, anal 1; uros- 

 teges 1 entire, 55 divided, and probably 10 wanting from the loss 

 of the extremit}^ The section of the tail is compressed, pentagonal. 

 Length, .381 M. ; to vent, .225 ; to rictus oris, .001. 



The ground color is brown, which is yellowish on the sides, 

 dark on the vertebral region, darker anteriorly, and almost black 

 on the head. The sides are marked from the second to the tenth 

 series of scales with dark brown 3-ellow bordered triangles, apices 

 upwards, three in an inch ; the bases scooped out and with the 

 legs sometimes cut off. A series of subquadrate blackish spots 

 separates their apices along the median line ; these sometimes 

 divide, and the halves alternate. Head unspotted, upper and 

 lower lips with lateral ventral groove ochre-j^ellow. Belly clearer 

 3'ellow, with several series of small deep brown marking. Outer 

 ends of urosteges blackish, anal shield black. 



The above description indicates how closely this serpent resem- 

 bles in coloration the j'oung examples of Trigonocephalus atrox 

 from the same country, and the T. neovidii of Brazil. This is so 

 marked as to constitute a case of mimetic analogy. But few cases 

 of mimicry of the Crotaline venomous snakes are to be observed 

 in South America, the imitations being chiefl}^ of the other venom- 

 ous group Proteroglyiyha, as represented by Elaps. In this con- 

 nection may be made a 



Reclamation, of the discovery of this, perhaps the most exten- 

 sive example of mimetic analog}' known in zoology. Alfred R. 

 Wallace, in his admirable work, " Contributions to the Theory of 

 Natural Selection," London, 1870,^ gives Dr. Giinther as his 

 authority for the facts of the case with regard to the genera Plio- 

 cercus Oxyrrhopiis, Erythrolamprus, etc., and refers to his own 

 previously published account of it in one of the British Reviews 

 for 1869. The first published account of the case will be found 



' Wallace is quoted by Darwin in " Descent of Man," to the same efffect. 

 1871.] 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



in the " Proceedings of the Academj' of Natural Sciences, Phila- 

 delphia," 1865, 199, in a paper by the author; although attention 

 had been called to it in the same publication for 1860, p. 262. 



It was repeated and extended in " Origin of Genera," 1868, but 

 had been already pointed out in conversation with Dr. Wallace, 

 and probably Dr. Giinther also, in London, in 1863, a fact which 

 had probably escaped his memor}-. 



II. Examination of a collection of reptiles and fishes brought 

 from near San Jose, Costa Rica, by Dr. Van Patten. The collec- 

 tion embraced fortj^-one of reptiles, six of batrachia, and nine of 

 fresh-water fishes from the Rio Grande. The facies of this part 

 of the fauna may be seen in tlie following list : — 



OPHIDIA. 



Candisona durissa, L. 



Bothrops atrox, L. 



Bothriechis affinis, Bocourt. 



Bothriechis nigroviridis, Peters. 



Elaps nigrocinctus, Gird. 



Elaps ornatissimus, Jan. var. with black amiuli ten scales apart, nineteen on body, 

 sis on tail. 



Elaps multifasciatus, Jan. 

 Pelamis bicolor, Daud. 

 DryiopMs brevirostris, Cope. 

 Dryiophis acuminatus, Wied. 

 Thrasops 1 mexicanus, D. B. 

 Leptognatlius nebulatus, L. 

 Dipsas gemmistratus, Cope. 

 Leptodira annulata, var. 

 var. 

 Masticophis margaritiferus, Schl. 

 MasticopMs boddaertii, St. 

 Herpetodryas carinatus, L. 

 Spilotes melanurus, D. B. 



LiopMs epinephelus, Cope, Proc. A. N. S., 1862, 78. 



Coniophanes fissidens, Giinther. Scales in fifteen series; belly red behind. 

 Conophis lineatus, D. B. 

 Erythrolamprus venustissimus, L. 

 Khadineea serperaster, Cope, sp. nov. 

 Tantilla melanocepliala, Linn. Abundant. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Tantilla melanocephala, Linn. Variety. 



StenorMna ventralis, D. B. 



Stenorhina degenhardtii, Berth. 



Ninia maculata, Peters. Abundant. 



Ninia atrata, Hallow. 



Colobognathus hoffmannii, Peters. Abundant. 



Colobognatlius brachycephalus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Colobognathus dolichocephalus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Epicrates cenchria, L. 



LACERTILIA. 



Anolis insignis, Cope, sp. nov. 



Anolis microtus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Anolis nannodes, Cope, P. A. N. S., 1864, p. 173, var. with only five scales between 

 the canthal rows on muzzle, and six rows of large smooth geneials. 



Anolis hoffmannii, Peters, Monatsber. Pr. Acad., 186.3, 142. 



Anolis trochilus, Cope, sp. nov. 



Sceloporus malachiticus, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1864, 178. 



Cyclura acanthura, Wiegmann. 



Phyllodactylus. 



BATRACHIA. 



Trypheropsis chrysoprasinus, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1866, 1.30; 1868, 

 117. 



Atelopus varius. Very abundant. The light spots on this species are crimson in 

 life. 



Bufo. 



Smilisca daudinii, D. B. 



Agalychnis moreletii, Dum. Very abundant. Golden and green in life. 

 Descriptions of new species are appended." 



TELEURASPIDES. 



This group of the rattlesnake famil}^ embraces those with undi- 

 vided anal shields and no rattle. It stands immediately between 

 the true Trigonocephali and the Grotali^ as the former have di- 

 vided caudal scutella and the rattle absent, the latter the rattle 

 with simple scutella. One genus of this division was described 

 long ago by Beauvois, and adopted by Gray and others, that is, 

 the Ancistroclon of North America and Mexico, but most of the 

 genera have only been recognized within a recent period. In 

 March, 1859, Prof. Peters distinguished a second genus of the 



1871.] 




206 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



group, and, towards the close of the same year, the writer named 

 a third. Prof. Peters subsequently named another genus which 

 may be retained, thougli in a sense quite different from that in 

 which it was originally intended. I allude to Bothriopsis, first 

 defined by the four small scuta on the top of the muzzle of one of 

 the species, a character not worthy of such a valuation. The char- 

 acters adopted will be seen below. All the known species are 

 found between North Mexico and Peru. 



I. Head scaled above. 



a. Body compressed, tail prehensile (arboreal) . 



A series of liorn-like scales above the eye, outside of the superciliary shield. 



Teleukaspis. 

 Superciliary reaching to the edge of the eye opening, no horns. 



BOTHRIECHIS. 



aa. Body cylindric, tail straight (terrestrial). 



Nasal plate one. Porthiditjm. 



Nasal plates two. Bothriopsis. 



II. Head with nine plates above. 



Body cylindric ; two nasals. Ancistrodon. 



TELEUKASPIS, Cope. 

 Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1859, 338; 1860, 345. 



The species of this genus are few, and are so far only known 

 from the Isthmus of Darien and west of the Andes to Peru. 



Teleuraspis schlegelii, Berthold, Abh. wiss., Gottingen, 1847, iii. 13 (^Trigonocepha- 

 lus). Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci., 1859, 338 ; 1860, 345. 



From Veragua and Darien. 



Teleuraspis nitida, GUnther, Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1859, Nov. Tab. (Lackesis). 

 Cope, 1. c. 345, et 1868, 110. 



Equador. 



Teleuraspis nigroadspersus, Steindachner Sitzungsber. Wien. Academie, 1870, May, 

 pi. viii. 



This species is near the last, especially to a bright j'ellow va- 

 riety of it. It differs, according to its describe!', in the two nasal 

 shields, and the fewer superciliary horns. 



Central America. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 20T 



BOTHRIECHIS, Peters. 



Monatsber. K. Preuss. Academie, 1859, 378. Cope, Pr. A. N. Sci., Phil., 

 1859, 345. Thamnocenchris, Salvin. 



This genus is, like tlie last, coufiued to the great forests of Cen- 

 tral America and the northwest of South America. Species have 

 been found further north than those of Teleuraspis. Like the 

 latter, they inhabit trees, filling the place in America of the species 

 of the East Indies which belong to the Trigonocephali^ and of 

 the tree-vipers of West Africa, Atheris, Cope. All the species 

 of these different groups are of green colors, in contradistinction 

 to those of terrestrial habits, which are of various shades of brown. 

 This is evidently related to their convenience in the struggle for 

 existence in the localities in question. 



Bothriechis nigroviridis, Peters, 1. c. Cope, L c. 



Costa Rica. A specimen from Dr. Yan Patten's collection is 

 peculiar in" having the nasal shield to reach the labial border in 

 front of the labials, and the superciliary shield transversely di- 

 vided. In all other respects it agrees with Peters' description and 

 figures. 



Bothriechis lateralis, Peters. Monatsb. Preuss. Acad., 1862, 674. Botkrops hilin- 

 eatus, Pet. 1. c, 1S59, 278. ? Buthrops hicolor, Bocoiirt, Ann. des Sci. Nat., 1868, 

 p. 201. 



Costa Rica. 



Bothriechis aurifer, Salvin (r/ta»i?ioce?jc/i?-w). Proc. Zool. Soc, 1860, 459. Tab. 

 pulcherrima I 



Coban, Yera Paz. 



POKTHIDIUM, Cope. 



This genus is proposed to accommodate the Bothrops lanshergii 

 and related species, which display characters intermediate in some 

 respects between the last genus and Bothriopsis. 



Scales in 23 rows. Rostral plate narrow, high ; two or three scuta above 

 canthus rostralis ; superciliary wide. Body compressed. Dark brown 

 crossbars alternating on sides. P. lansbergii. 



Rostral higher ; scales of vertex more elongate in front. P. nasutus. 



Porthidium lansbergii, Schlegel, Magazine de Zoologie, 1841. Tab. 



Tropical America. 

 Porthidium nasutum, Bocourt, Ann. Sci. Nat., 1868, p. 202 {Bothrops). 



Guatemala. 

 1871.] 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



BOTHRIOPSIS, Peters. 

 Monatsber. Preuss. Acad., 1861, 359, emendatus. 



The species of this genus are all of terrestrial habits, and ap- 

 proach, in this respect, the Ancisb-odontes. They have a more 

 extended range than anj^ of the preceding, occurring from the 

 upper or Peruvian Amazon to northern Mexico. They are very 

 venomous, but not so much dreaded as the true T7'igonocephali 

 of the same regions, which attain a larger size. 



a. Superciliary shield wide. 



Scales in 21 rows, two inferior smooth ; canthus rostralis with two scales 

 only ; two rows below eye ; a series of brown dorsal rhombs. 



B. GODMANII. 



Scales in 33 rows ; rostral a narrow vertical parallelogram ; three scales 

 on canthus ; 2-3 rows below orbit. Light, with twenty-one or fewer 

 broad brown crossbars, alternating on each side ; mouth black. 



B. BRACHYSTOMA. 



Similar, but with forty quadrate spots on each side the middle line, with 

 two rows of spots below them on each side. B. ophryomegas. 



B. CASTELNAVI. 



aa. Supercihary shields very narrow. 

 B. No small scales surrounding rostral. 



Scales in 23 ("25") rows, three inferior smooth; small scales on canthus, 

 four rows below eye ; rostral broad as high ; nine superior labials, fourth 

 largest. Twenty -two dorsal rhombs. B. affinis. 



SB. Rostral separated from nasals by small scales. 



Scales in 25 rows ; rostral triangular, broader than high ; small scales on 

 canthus, five rows below eye; 10-11 superior labials. A series of large 

 dark brown dorsal rhombs. B. mexicanus. 



Bothriopsis godmannii, GUnther {Bothechis). Am. Mag. N. H., 1863, nov. pi. vi., 

 f. G. Botlirops hrammianus, Bocourt, Ann. Sci. Nat., 1868, p. 201. 



Vera Paz and Guatemala. 



Bothriopsisbrachystoma, Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1861,295 (Bothtechis) . 

 B. castehiavi, var. hrackystoma, 1. c. 1859, 339. 



Guatemala. 



Bothropsis ophryomegas, Bocourt (Botliroijs, Bac). Ann. Sci. Nat., 1868, 201. 

 Central America. 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES Or PHILADELPHIA. 209 



Bothriopsis castelnavii, Dum. Bibr. Erp. Gen. vii. {Botkrojis). Castelnau, Anitn. 

 Nouv. ou rares Am. Sud. Kept. Tab. Steindacbner, Sitzungsb. Wien. Acad., 1870, 

 May. Bothriopsis quadriscutatns, Peters, Monatsb. 1851, 359. 



Equador; Peru. 



Bothriopsis affinis, Bocourt. Ann. Sci. Nat., 1860, 201. Teleiirasjjis mexicanus. 

 Cope, Proc. A. N. S., 1859, 339. Bothriechis, do., Cope, 1. c. 1860, 345, nee Atrojius 

 fnexicanus, D. B. 



Mexico, as far north as Tuxpan, and Central America to Costa 

 Rica. 



Bothriopsis mexicanus, Dum. Bibr. (Atropics). Erp. Gen. viii., p. 1521, Tab. 83 

 bis.? Atiopns nummifer, Riippel, Verzeicbn. Senck. Mus. Frankr. p. 21. Tcleu- 

 rospis, do., Giinther. Am. Magaz. Nat. Hist., 1867, March, Tab. iii., fig. C, nee 

 Copei, Pr. A. N. S. Phila., 1859, 339, et 1860, 345 = B. affinis, Boc. 



Riippel's description is so brief and worthless as to be unfit for 

 application to any species. I used it for what turns out to be the 

 B. affinis of Bocourt, but Dr. Giinther retains it for this onej 

 believing it to be identical with the former. Bocourt first distin- 

 guished them, but they may prove to be the same ; they are at 

 least veiy closelj^ allied. 



Common in Mexico. 



Numerous specimens of these species are in the collections of 

 the Smithsonian Institution, chiefly obtained by Henry Hague, 

 of Coban. 



ANCISTRODON, Beauvais. 



Traus. Amer. Philos. Soc. AgJcistroclon and ToxicopMs (Troost). Baird 

 and Gh-ard. 



Ancistrodon bilineatus, Giinther. Am. Magaz. Nat. Hist., Nov. 1863. 



Guatemala ; Tehuantepec. Coll. Smithsonian. 



Ancistrodon pugnax, Bd. Girard. CataL Serpents N. Amer., 18. 

 Texas. 



Ancistrodon piscivorus, Catesb. 



United States, from Texas to Virginia; the^ Mississippi Valley 

 to south Illinois (Kenuicott). 



Ancistrodon contortrix, Linn. 



North America. East of Rocky Mountains, from Texas inclu- 

 sive of Massachusetts. 



Elaps multifasciatus, Jan. Mag. Zool. 1859, pi. A. 



An elongate species, with extremely short tail, and head rather 

 1871.J 




210 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



suddenly wider than the body, and with closely approximated 

 broad black rings. 



Tail one 22d or 3d of the total length, obtusely conic at the 

 apex. Scales rather broad, in fifteen longitudinal rows. Head 

 broad and short, the muzzle broadly rounded. Eye very small, 

 not exceeding the external nostril. Rostril plate broad, low; 

 internasals a little longer than wide. Frontal elongate, exceeding 

 superciliaries by. 33; occipitals large. Preocular large, triangu- 

 lar, the apex just touching the postnasal. Postoculars small, 

 the upper larger, and in contact with occipital. Labials high and 

 narrow, seven on the upper lip. Of these, the third is as wide as 

 the base of the preocular, while the fourth and fifth, which sup- 

 port the orbit, are very narrow. The sixth is very large, and 

 reaches the occipital on one side, but is separated on the other by 

 a narrow temporal cut from its upper margin. Counting this one, 

 the temporals are 1-1-1 ; the last two being large. Seventh la- 

 bial but little longer than deep. The venom gland of this species 

 must be large, as the head is much swollen laterally, and the la- 

 bials exhibit a broad infolded margin at the borders of the lips 

 which are in contact. The fangs are short. Inferior labials seven, 

 all wide ; geneials large, the pairs equal, separated by three scales 

 from the first gastrostege. Fourth labial in contact with geneial 

 in part, the other part with the fifth and sixth, bordered poste- 

 riorly by a plate which diverges from the geneials. Gastrosteges 

 268; anal divided; urosteges 23. 



Ground color crimson, crossed by numerous closely placed 

 black annuli, which are closer together above than on the abdo- 

 men. They cover four series of scales above, and two gastrosteges. 

 There are fifty-five on the body in the specimen, and two and 

 a tip on the tail. The scales of the red annuli on the sides are 

 dotted with black. The first ring forms a collar, in front of which 

 the head is yellow as far as the postoculars and middle of fifth 

 labials. In front of this point it is unspotted black. Chin little 

 or not dark-spotted. Total length, M. 9.35 ; of tail, 0.4Y ; width of 

 head, 0.19. 



The very small eyes and broad head give this serpent a vicious 

 expression, and it is probably one of the most venomous of the 

 genus. Its characters are intermediate between those of the E. 

 corallinus and E. mipartitus, and the large extent of the sixth 

 upper labial, if normal, will ally it to the E. 7Hisei. It is as large 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



as the E. lemniscatus. It is evident from the above description 

 that it is distinct from the E. mipartitus^ D. and B., with which 

 Giinther is disposed to unite it. See Am. Magaz. Nat. Hist., Sept. 

 1859. Prof. Jan's figure does not represent the species well, having 

 the black rings too wide ; it must have been taken from a young 

 animal. 



COLOBOGNATHUS DOLICHOCEPHALTJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Scales in thirteen longitudinal series carinate to the urostesres 

 on the tail, to the first row of scales on the posterior, and to the 

 second row on the anterior part of the body. Head elongate, 

 conic, scarcely distinct from the neck. Internasals very small, 

 prefrontals verj'' long. Frontal wide, openly angulate in front, 

 with superciliary margins distinct from the parietal ; latter plates 

 well developed. Superior labials six, second bounding nasal and 

 loreal; third a little, fourth largely in eye, fifth longer than high, 

 in contact with parietal. One temporal above sixth labial, which 

 is higher than long. Inferior labials six, second and third minute, 

 fourth long and narrow. Postgeneials small, separated by a 

 scutum. Oculars 0-1. Rostral elevated, not separating inter- 

 nasals. Tail slender, 5.15 times in the total length. Gastrosteges 

 131, anal 1, urosteges 39. Color of body above, and entire tail, 

 black ; a series of large distant red spots on each side, which often 

 meet above, forming half-rings. These disappear on tail and neck. 

 Below red, lower lip and chin black. Length, 12-14 inches. 



San Jose, Costa Rica. Dr. Van Patten. 



This species diff'ers from the C hojfmannii^ Pet., in its more 

 numerous labial shields, keeled scales, coloration, etc. From the 

 (7. nasalis, Cope (Gatostoma, olim), in the fewer scale-rows (the 

 latter has seventeen), the coloration, etc. 



COLOBOGNATHUS BRACHYCEPHALUS, Cope. 



Scales in fifteen longitudinal rows, smooth, except a faint trace 

 of cariuation near the posterior part of the body. Head flat ; 

 rather wide behind, and distinct from neck. Postgeneials small, 

 separated by a scale. Rostral moderate, internasals not minute, 

 prefrontals nearly broad as long. Frontal broad convex in front, 

 superciliary and parietal sutures nearly continuous. Oculars 0-1. 

 Superior labials six, two behind orbit, sixth longer than high, sur- 

 mounted by one temporal ; fifth longer than high, bounding 



isn.] 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



parietal ; third and chiefly fourth in eye. Lower labials seven ; 

 geneials short, wide. Gastrosteges 124, anal 1, urosteges 38. 



Color of bod}'^ and entire tail black ; gastrosteges reddish, brown 

 margined. A yellowish or orange collar crosses behind the parietal 

 plates, and a band of the same color extends from the side of the 

 neck to the tail on the second and third rows in front, and third 

 to fifth behind. This band is composed of two rows of alternating 

 narrow spots, which are not always perfectly united. 



Total length eight inches, the tail one-sixth of the total. 



The species just described agree with the C. nasalis, the C. 

 hoffmannii^ and the Cafostoma semidoliatuih, in having the first 

 labial behind the eye in contact with the parietal shield. They 

 are intermediate, in the structure of the jaws, between the type of 

 the genus and the last-named Cafostoma. In the C. semidoliafum 

 the maxillary bone is developed, and bears teeth opposite the first 

 labial plate. In the Colobognafhus hoffmannii, it, with the pala- 

 tine, is cartilaginous in front, and bears no teeth anterior to the 

 fourth labial shield. In the C. brachycejjhalus and C. dolichoce- 

 phalus, the maxillary and palatine are a little better developed, 

 the teeth extending to the posterior margin of the second superior 

 labial. In the serpent described by me (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 1868, p. 131) as Cafostoma nasale^ the dentition is precisely as in 

 the two species here described, and I accordingly^ refer it to Colo- 

 bognafhus. This genus will then embrace four species. In the 

 genus Colophri/s, Cope (1. c, 18G8, 130), the maxillar}- is still 

 better developed, the teeth commencing at the anterior part of the 

 second upper labial. 



KHADIN.aEA SEEPEKASTER, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species agrees with those regarded as typical when the 

 genus was first defined (see Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1868, 132). 

 That is, the teeth are equal, the scales smooth and poreless, the 

 anal plate divided, the nasals two, loreal one, and oculars 1-2. 



In this serpent the scales are in nineteen series. Superior 

 labials eight, not elevated, fourth and fifth bounding ej^e. Tempo- 

 rals 1-2-3. Internasals transverse, narrow ; postnasal larger than 

 prenasal. Frontal wide, superciliarj^ suture shorter than anterior, 

 total length exceeding that of common parietal suture. Loreal 

 square; geneials subequal. Gastrosteges 164, anal 2, urosteges 18* 



Dark brown, with six longitudinal 3'ellow or white lines, of 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 213 



wliicli the first and second are brightest. The second dark band 

 is wider than the first and vertebral ; it and the third arc partly 

 divided by a faint white line. Another white line on each side is 

 produced by a series of dark spots on the ends of the gastrosteges. 

 Labial plates black, j'ellow spotted. Head dark brown above, 

 with a pale shade across frontal, and two just behind parietals. 

 Chin and belly yellowish. 



ANOLIS INSIGNIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Auricular opening half as large as eye. Scales intermediate ; 

 seven rows between orbits; one or two superorbital rows but 

 little larger than the others ; eight rows across middle of muzzle, 

 and six across loreal region at middle. Three large and two small 

 keeled infralabial rows. Scales of arm smooth, of tail striate. 



Fawn-brown, with four double bands of greenish-blue between 

 axilla and tail. Divided between the brown band b}- a yellow 

 band, which widens below and breaks into spots above. A large 

 round greenish-blue spot with brown centre in front of axilla. 



Interorbital and occipital regions deeply concave, the latter 

 bounded posteriorly by two elevated osseous ridges which meet 

 behind at an acute angle. No facial rugai, front flat except a 

 slight median elevation. Muzzle with broad median ridge. Scales 

 of front equal, those of canthus osseous. Postfrontal and zygo- 

 matic arches prominent, rugose. Inferior loreal rows of scales 

 larger than others, nares surrounded by small scales. Fan very 

 largely developed. An elevated crest or dermal fold on the nape- 

 Scales of the sides and back (except some median rows) flat, 

 pavement-like, equal, smooth, one-third the size of the smooth 

 ventrals. Four median dorsal rows subconic, smaller than the 

 ventrals. Tail proximally compressed, covered with equal scales. 

 Limbs stout, the anterior extending four-fifths way to groin; the 

 hinder reaching nearly to the ear. Scales of the limbs small ; 

 dilatations distinct. 



The colors of this Anolis are very elegant. Besides the large 

 spot behind the angle of the mandible, there is a blue one on the 

 angle surrounded by fawn color, and this by yellow. Sides of the 

 temporal region and neck with yellow spots. Bluish of first cross- 

 baud in a coarse netted figure. Top of head fawn color; fan 

 entirely vermilion ; belly bright yellow. Tail with broad blackish 

 anuuli ; limbs with dark crossbars, three on tibia, femur, and 

 forearm ; two ou humerus. 

 1871.] 




214 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Total length, M. 44. Length to orbit, .0183 ; to ear, .03^ ; 

 to axilla, .0fJ2; to groin, .135; to angle of parietal crests, .035. 

 Width at anterior angle orbits, .014; zygomatic arches, .019; 

 length fore foot, .023 ; of tibia, .029 ; of hind foot, .04. 



From San Jose. Dr. Yan Patten. 



This is a large species, being about equal to the A. edwardsii of 

 Jamaica. It is one of the most elegantly colored among the 

 species of a beautiful genus. 



Its affinities, as alread}'^ pointed out, are to the A. squamulatus, 

 Peters, which is very near the A. laticejys of Berthold. 



ANOLIS MICEOTUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Auricular opening not larger than nares. Scales generally 

 larger ; four rows between orbits ; two rows of large ones above 

 orbits ; seven rows between rows of canthus rostralis at middle 

 of muzzle ; three loreal rows at middle ; three large smooth infra- 

 labial rows. Scales of tail and foreleg three or four keeled. 



Brown, with cross-bands of large paler ocelli crossing the sides 

 behind the axilla, at middle, and at crura. Eye and a broad band 

 to shoulder, dark brown. 



Description. — Scales of back, sides, and belly equal and smooth. 

 Tail compressed at base, distally cylindric, covered with equal 

 scales. Front without ridges, but with well-marked concavity ; 

 all the scales covering it equal and smooth. Occipital or parietal 

 region concave, with high latero-posterior bounding ridges, which 

 do not unite, but leave a notch between them (in one specimen). 

 Occipital region covered with small scales. Zygomatic arch pro- 

 mine^it, canthus rostralis not tubercular. Fan well developed. 

 First two infralabial scales longer than the others. Limbs short, 

 stout, anterior not reaching groin, posterior extending to angle 

 of lower jaw. Dilatations well developed. 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 215 



This species is darkei* tlian the last, and is much less orna- 

 mented. The color is a rich yellowish-brown ; where the epidermis 

 is lost on the head, a strong yellow pigment appears, so that it is 

 probable that it could in life change to that color at will. A deep 

 brown band commences by covering the whole eye and extends to 

 the shoulder, where it is marked by pale centred ocelli. It is 

 sei^arated above by a narrow paler band from a large dark brown 

 patch that covers the nape and scapular regions. Limbs and 

 tail broadly and indistinctly brown cross-banded. Belly and 

 throat immaculate. 



San Jose, Costa Rica. Dr. Van Patten. 



This large species is allied to the last, but perhaps resembles 

 more the Anolis biporcatus, Wiegm., the largest Anolis of Mexico. 

 The latter has, among other points of difference, keeled abdominal 

 scales and a shorter muzzle, with very different coloration. The 

 uniform size of all the scales is a noteworthy character of the 

 A. microtus. 



ANOLIS TROCHILTJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Abdominal scales small, flat, smooth; tail cylindric, with similar 

 scales. Dorsal scales smaller than ventral, pavement-like, very 

 weakly keeled, graduating into those of the lower part of the 

 side, which are smaller. Head moderately elongate ; width be- 

 tween anterior margins of orbit, equal length of muzzle from same 

 point, measured on the side. Interrugal concavity of the front 

 well marked, occupied by very small scales, much less than those 

 of the rugse, in nine rows. Scales between rugse and canthus, 

 large. Two rows separate the superciliaries, which are separated 

 by three or four rows from the occipital. Five rows of loreal 

 scales. Six smooth scales in the supraorbital disc, those inner 

 larger, transverse, the three outer longitudinal. Four rows of 

 infralabials medially; nostril surrounded by small scales. Auri- 

 cular meatus one-half eye-slit. 



Limbs long, toes slender, the dilatations well marked. The 

 fore limb oppressed, reaches the groin ; the hind limb extended, 

 attains the end of the muzzle. Fan little developed. 



Above and below, brilliant metallic green with a few black dots 

 along the vertebral line. Head and anterior part of sides, brown; 

 a black V extending from the auricular openings, which are con- 

 nected by a broad black band with the orbits. Another V ex- 

 1871.] 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



tends towards the occiput from the limbs of the nuchal V, in- 

 closing a narrow brown area with it. Top of muzzle and limbs, 

 blackish. 



M. 



Totallength 0.108 



Length to orbit 005 



" " ear Oil 



" " axilla '. . .018 



" " groin 0378 



- Width head behmd 006 



Length hind foot ■ . , .014 



San Josd. Dr. Van Patten. 



A small species of metallic colors, allied to the A. viridiaenetis, 

 Peters. It is the eighty-fifth of the genus known to the writer. 



III. The third collection was made by the U. S. Expedition to 

 survey the Isthmus of Tehuantepec for a ship canal, under Capt. 

 Shufeldt, by T. Hale Streets, M.D. It included a few species of 

 fishes whose names are appended. 



OPHIDIA. 



Elaps ornatissimus, Jan. (with distant annuli). 

 Masticophis margaritiferus, Schl. 

 Oxybelis acuminatus, Wied. 

 Coniophanes fissidens, Gthr. 

 Oxyrrhopus plumbeus. 

 Hydrops lubricus, Cope, sp. nov. 



liACERTILIA. 



Sphaerodactylus glaucus, Cope. Adult of two inches ; labials J | ; tail orange-red. 

 Scales smooth, flat. See Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1865, 192. 



Cyclura acantbura, Wiegm. 



Cyclura pectinata, AViegm. 



Sceloporus. 



Amiva. 



Cnemidopliorus. 



Plistodon. 



BATRACHIA. 



Systoma ustum, Cope {Engystoma mexicujium, Peters). 



Bufo agua, Dand. 



Bufo steruosignatus, Gthr. 



Litbodytes rbodopis, Cope {Hylodes sallaei, Gthr.). 



[October 24, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



FISHES. 



Philypnus dormitator, C. V. 

 Tetragonopterus streetsii, Cope, sp. nov. 

 Xiphophorus hellerii, Heck. 

 Fundulus, sp. 1. 

 Fundulus, sp. 2. 



HYDROPS LTJBRICUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Head short, broad, little distinct from neck. Scales entirely 

 smooth, poreless. Posterior grooved tooth not much larger than 

 those in fi-ont of it. Head-shields normal, labials not divided ; 

 loreal distinct, not reaching orbit; oculars 1-2. 



Internasals contracted in front. Frontal wide, with parallel 

 sides longer than muzzle in front of it. Parietals still longer, 

 somewhat contracted behind. Rostral broad, low ; loreal small, 

 higher than long. Temporals 1-2, first in contact with two labials. 

 Superior labials eight, fourth and fifth bounding rather small 

 orbit; seventh wider above than below. Inferior labials 10 or 11, 

 4.5 in contact with anterior, 1.5 with posterior or longer genials. 

 Scales in 21 rows. Anal divided. Tail 4| times in total length. 



Ground color above, a stone brown. A blackish lateral band 

 extends from the end of the muzzle to the end of the tail, includ- 

 ing all between the approximated edges of the second and sixth 

 rows of scales. A dark brown shade extends throughout the 

 length on the vertebral, and two series of scales on each side of 

 it. Below the second row of scales white (? in life j-ellow), a 

 large black spot marking the third from each end of each gas- 

 trostege and urostege, thus forming two series. Labial plates 

 above and below, pale with a black spot ; gulars and geneials 

 similar. Total length two feet. Gastrosteges 162. TJrosteges 71. 



This species was found by Dr. T. H. Streets on the bank of the 

 Coatzacoalcos River, in the department of Vera Cruz, Mexico. It 

 is excessively smooth, so much so as to produce the sensation of 

 an oiled surface when the finger is passed over the scales. 



TETRAGONOPTERUS STREETSII, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. 11, A. 25 ; scales 1-41-5. Maxillary bone elongated, 

 the extremity extending to below the anterior part of the pupil, 

 its margin toothless. Profile nearly plane, rising into the convex 

 dorsum at the supra-occipital crest; muzzle obtuse, jaws nearly 



1871.], PART II. — 15 




218 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



equal. Interorbital region transversely convex, as wide as the 

 diameter of the orbit. Dorsal fiu originating a little behind that 

 of the ventral. 



General form elongate rhombic. Depth 2.5 times in length less 

 caudal fin ; length of head 4 times in same. Eye 3.2 times in 

 head. Total length five inches. Color of superior half of head 

 and body blackish ; a vertical clavicular dark band, a leaden band 

 from its upper margin to basis of caudal fin terminating in a P3'ri- 

 form black blotch of considerable size, which is prolonged on the 

 caudal radii. Below, yellowish-white. Fins unicolor. 



From the head-waters of the Coatzacoalcos River amons; the 

 Cordilleras. 



This species may be allied to those mentioned by Bocourt from 

 the rivers of Belize and Peten (Ann. Sci. Nat., XI.) ; but it will be 

 impossible ever to recognize them from the notes attached to the 

 names. 



lY. The collection made by Dr. Gabb was chiefly obtained near 

 the city of San Domingo, in the southeastern part of the island. 

 It embraces twenty species, as follows : — 



OPHIDIA. 



Dromicus parvifrons, Cope. 



Hypsirh.ynclius ferox, Gthr. (H. scalaris, Cope). 



This is no doubt the true habitat of this snake. 



Thrasops catesbeyi, D. B. 



" oxyrhynclius, D. B. 

 Ungualia maculata. 

 Homalochilus striatus, Fisch. 



LACERTILIA. 



Amiva vittipunctata, Cope. 

 Liocephalus raviceps, Cope. 

 Anolis coelestinus, Cope. 



" semilineatus, Cope 



" cybotes, Cope 



" distichus, Cope. 

 Hemidactylus. 

 Sphaerodactylus notatus, Baird. Abundant. 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



BATRACHIA. 



Bufo gutturosus, Latr. (Giinther Cat, Anura B. M. PI. V. f3g. B.) 

 Hyla vasta, Cope, sp. nov. 

 Trachyceplialus marmoratus, D. B. 

 Lithodytes lineatus, Grav. 



HYLA VASTA, Cope, sp. nov. 



The largest species of the genus, equallmg in size the Hypsihoas 

 maximus, Gincloscopus granulatus, etc. 



Form stout and rather clumsj'. Head broad ; muzzle short, 

 rounded; canthus rostralis well marked, concave; vertex strongly 

 concave. Width of head at tympana .33 gi'eater than length to 

 line of the same. Eye not very large, tympanic disc one-fourth its 

 area. Teeth in two rather long transverse arches opposite the 

 posterior margin of the inner nares. Tongue broader than long ; 

 choause smaller than inner nares. Parietal fontanelle not larae. 



The limbs are stout, the forearm and tarsus bordered by a der- 

 mal fold behind, which has a scalloped thickened margin. No 

 fringes on the body, but the skin is covered everywhere with 

 small warts, which are indistinct or obsolete on the median upper 

 surfaces of body and limbs. The under surfaces, except the tibia, 

 are areolate-warty, nearly smooth on the pectoral region. The 

 fingers and toes are webbed to tlie base of the last phalange of all 

 but the longest or median toes. The dilations are immensely 

 large, the largest being twice the size of the tympanum. The fore 

 limb extended reaches a little beyond the groin ; the hind limb 

 measures the end of the muzzle with the heel. Some small dermal 

 flaps on the ischia. 



M. 



Length of head and body (5 inches) .... 0.126 



" to line of tympana 033 



" of fore limb 076 



of hind limb 187 



" of hind foot 081 



Color above smokj^ gray, blackish on the head, with a brown 

 band between the eyes. Inner surfaces dirty flesh-color, femur 

 with three or four dusky cross-bands, unspotted behind. Throat 

 black-spotted. 



Near the city of Santo Domingo, W. I. 



This tree-frog is probably not abundant, as it occurs now for 



1871.] 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



the first time in our collections, though I have examined four 

 made in the island. From its size, its voice must be sufficient to 

 betray its whereabouts to the naturalist. Its structural characters 

 are apparently somewhat like those of Hyla lichenosa, Gthr., from 

 Mexico. It differs in the larger palmation of the hand, concave 

 front, minuteness of warts, size, coloration, etc. 



AMIVA. VITTIPUNCTATA, Cope, sp. nov. 



Twelve series of abdominal plates ; no heel spurs ; one frontal 

 plate. Seven plates in the infralabial series separated b}'^ granules 

 and scales from the labials througiiout ; no plates inside the infra- 

 labials behind. A few gulars a little enlarged in the middle of 

 the area. Edge of gular fold widely granular. Three supraorbi- 

 tals, seven superciliaries. Teeth, 18 on maxillary bone, the an- 

 terior 14 with anterior denticle, the last 4 with both anterior and 

 posterior. Brachial scales rather small, one row larger ; postbra- 

 chials similar, two rows enlarged ; antebrachials two narrow, one 

 transverse row, well separated from brachials. Preanals, a mar- 

 ginal series with small central, with large ones bounding it, and 

 three short rows of diamond-shaped scuta in front of them. 



M. 



Length (tail perfect) 0.373 



" to vent . . . ■ 088 



" to auricular meatus 021 



" of fore limb 03 



Longest toe of extended hind limb reaches to orbit. Femoral 

 pores 18. 



Color above, olive, with three pale lines on each side of the median 

 line ; a light lateral band from above axilla to groin, separated 

 from outer dorsal line hy a broad black band, which is marked by 

 a median series of light dots. Sides and limbs white-spotted, tail 

 brown-spotted, black below. Belly and throat uniform light olive; 

 head above, uniform brown. 



Y. A small collection from the Island of Saint Eustatia, made 

 by Dr. R. E. Yan Rijgersma, contained the following species: — 



Hemidactylus mabia, Cuv. 

 Anolis sagrse, D. & B. var. 

 Anolis gingivinus, Cope. 



This species was described by me from specimens in the British 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Museum said to be from "AuguiHa Eock, near Trinidad." It 

 appears, from Dr. Yan Rijgersraa's investigations, that the Island 

 of Anguilla, far north of Trinidad, was meant. 



Anolis leachii, Gray. 



This species is near the last, but has coarser lateral scales and 

 more slender mandible ; it is also larger, and the color is quite 

 different. It is bright green with a pale band over the shoulder, 

 with a black spot aboA-e it, opposite the axilla. The fan is small. 



AMIVA ERYTHROPS, Rijgersma, MS., sp. nov. 



Abdominal plates in 12-14 series; no spurs on the heel. One 

 frontal, four supraorbital, nine superciliary plates. Five infra- 

 labials separated by a few intermedials from posterior labials, first 

 not separated from third labial. Seven rows of larger gular scales 

 extending entirely across the throat. Three larger series on gular 

 fold, which has several rows of granules near margin. Brachials 

 small, in four rows ; postbrachials small. Antebrachials large, 

 two rows hexagonal, one transverse. Femoral pores small, 38 in 

 a series. Preanal scales two large median with a single row of 

 one or two in front ; small scales occur in some specimens behind 

 the posterior two. Outer hind toe a little longer than inner. 



Teeth in adults compressed, one or two only with denticula- 

 tions. The end of the longest toe of the extended hind foot 

 reaches the anterior margin of the ear. 



Color brownish-olive, with a broad greenish band on each side 

 the back from the nape above the ear. In young specimens these 

 bands are bright. Another less distinct band extends along the 

 side from above axilla to groin. Between these and the dorsals, 

 and across the back, are transverse black reticulations. Bellj' 

 greenish, the color appearing as spots on the outer scales. Tho- 

 rax and edge of sides of fold black ; throat bright yellow ; sides 

 of head red ; upper surface brown ; limbs olive, with black reticu- 

 lation. 



M. 



Length of (tail reproduced) 0.32 



" to vent 126 



" to auricular meatus 029 



" of fore limb 05 



YI. The collection from Ambyiacn R., from John Hauxwell, in- 

 cluded the following : — 



1871.] 




222 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Helicops carinicauda, Wied. 



Liophis pygmaeus, Cope. 



Amiva surinamensis, Gray. 



MabuiaT cepedii, Gray, with only 28 series of scales on the body. 



Goniodactylus humeralis, Guich. 



Goniodactylus varius, Dum. 



Hyperanodon ochrocollaris, Spix. 



Podocnemis sp. pullus. 



Ranula palmipes, Spix. 



Atelopus spumarius, Cope, sp. nov. 



Scytopis allenii, Cope. 



Scytopis aurantiacus, David. 



Hyla marmorata, Daud. 



Hyla leucophyllata, Beireis. 



ATELOPUS SPUMARIUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Muzzle projecting, forming a narrow rim whicli is concave be- 

 low, and overhangs the upper lip. Nostril lateral, above the sym- 

 physis of the mandible, when the mouth is closed. Loreal region 

 plane, canthus rostralis straight, angular. Head, viewed from 

 above, a section of a cone which is rounded truncate at the apex. 

 Diameter of orbit equal from its front border to the nostril. 

 Width of head behind equal length of humerus. Fingers nearly 

 free, toes webbed at base. Tongue narrow, subc^dindric. Muzzle 

 marking basal third of forearm, and near middle of tarsus of 

 hind limb. 



Above, dark brown, with a broad band from orbit to groin, com- 

 posed of numerous aggregated annuli of greenish-yellow, which 

 has the appearance of dried foam. The band sends branches in- 

 wards on the back. Bands of the same character cross the fore 

 and hind limbs in various places. Soles, palms, under surfaces 

 of the limbs except tibia, and tarsus, yellow. Throat and bellj' 

 yellow, dark brown spotted. Length M. .0275 ; width of sacral 

 diapophyses .007. 



In a second specimen the gular region is very sparsely spotted. 



VII. Two new serpents from the Atlantic Southern States have 

 been recently received by the Academy, as follows : — 



DEOMICUS FLAVILATUS, Cope, sp. nov. 

 This species is of especial interest, as the first representative 

 of a West Indian and Mexican genus, found in the Nearctic Re- 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



gion. No species of Dromicus has been kuown in North Ame- 

 rica, and the occurrence of this one on the extreme eastern coast, 

 and its very close affinity to a species {D. callilsemus, G osse) com- 

 mon in Jamaica, are circumstances suggestive of origin by car- 

 riage in floating driftwood on the current of the Gulf Stream. 



Habit moderately slender; tail 3.2 times in total length; head 

 distinct, elongate, oval. Scales very thin, without scale-pores, in 

 seventeen longitudinal series. Superior labials seven, third and 

 fourth in orbit; fifth higher than long, with sixth separated by a 

 narrow temporal from occipital ; seventh longer than high. Infe- 

 rior labials nine, four bounding geneials. Postgeneials longer than 

 pregeneials. Internasals nearly quadrate; prefrontals longer than 

 wide. Frontal, anterior width .T5 length; parietals rather elon- 

 gate. Nostril in prenasal, which is lower than postnasal; loreal 

 very small, high as long; sculars 1-2. Gastrosteges 126; uros- 

 teges 77. 



In D. callilsemus the frontal plate is very nearly as wide as 

 long, and the gastrosteges number 140 ; the coloration is also dif- 

 ferent. 



Color above, a rich golden brown, the scales of the two inferior 

 rows on each side broadly gold-edged, the color of the back com- 

 mencing on the third row. The ends of the scales of the vertebral 

 row are sometimes darker-tipped. Head dark brown, darkest 

 behind, with numerous but obscure paler vermiculations. Sides 

 of head paler, with a reddish-brown band from the rostral plate 

 through the eye to the middle of the last labial. Labials whitish, 

 with black dots on the posterior, in oblique rows. Below white, 

 lower labials sparsely black-dotted A pair of pale dots on the 

 common occipital suture. 



This, the first addition to the Ophidia of our Eastern States 

 made for some years, was discovered by Dr. Henry C. Yarrow, 

 near Fort Macon, on the coast of North Carolina. Near the same 

 time another new Ophidian came to hand, as follows: — 



CONTIA PYG^EA, Cope, sp. nov. 



In its generic features, this species may be thus described. The 

 dentition is complete, and the teeth of the maxillary bone are of 

 equal length. The scales are smooth and without pores, and the 

 anal plate is divided. The head-shields are normal ; the nasal, 

 usually entire in the genus, is in this species half divided by a 

 1871.] 




224 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



suture from the nostril to the labial border. Two pairs of gene- 

 ials; a loreal; rostral obtuse. The head is little distinct from the 

 body, and the pupil is round. 



The form of this species is stout and subcylindric, the tail 

 enterino- the total lenoth 4.33 times. The head is stout, oval, the 

 profile a little arched. The centre of the orbit, anterior to the 

 middle of the lip margin. The rostral is visible from above; the 

 nasals approach so as to reduce the internasals to a subtriangular 

 form each, of which the middle and posterior suture are equal. The 

 frontal is long, and with parallel sides, its length exceeding that 

 of the head in front of it. The parietals are still longer, and 

 wide, with subtruncate outline behind. Loreal plate higher than 

 long, half the height of the single preocular, which does not 

 reach the frontal. Postoculars 2 ; temporals 1-2, the first in con- 

 tact with three labials. Superior labials eight, their height sub- 

 equal, the fourth and fifth bounding the orbit. Inferior labials 

 nine, six in contact with geneials, five with the first, two with the 

 second geneial. Latter subequal. Scales in seventeen series, those 

 of first deeper than long. Those of sides at vent and of basal 

 two-thirds of the tail roof-shaped or obtusely keeled. About one- 

 sixth of the length in front of and behind the vent compressed, 

 the dorsal outline keel-formed. Gastrosteges 120; urosteges 54. 



Coloration above, black, with a very faint pale line along the 

 centre of each scale of several lateral series. The lines are more 

 distinct near the vent and on the tail, and heighten the effect of 

 carinfe produced by the angulation of the scales. Beneath, pale 

 in the alcoholic specimen ; the posterior half of the body, with the 

 tail, red ; each scutum with a short black crossbar at its ends on 

 the anterior margin. These cease a short distance anterior to the 

 vent. 



Length nine inches. Discovered at Yolusia, Florida, by Ed- 

 ward Tatnall, of Wilmington, Delaware. 



This interesting addition to our reptile fauna is quite unlike 

 any species heretofore found in our territory. Its nearest affinity 

 is apparently with the G. mitis of Baird and GLi'ard, common in 

 California. The only other American species, G. episcopa of Ken- 

 nicott, has been found in Texas. 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



DESCRIPTIONS OF FIVE NEW SPECIES OF CRUSTACEA FROM MEXICO. 



BY T. HALE STREETS. 



PACHYCHELES MEXICANUS, nor. sp. 



Plate II. Fig. 1. 



Carapax broadly oval, about as broad as long, slightly convex 

 antero-posteriorly ; surface shining, but minutely granular through 

 the lens ; anterior portion of the carapax cTeflexed, triangular, and 

 furrowed, a small white spot at the tip ; neither spines nor teeth 

 an^^where on the body ; eves small, supra-orbital border concave 

 and inflated. Carpus as broad as long ; three teeth on the ante- 

 rior border ; two slightly elevated ridges of granules on the supe- 

 rior surface ; hand broad and large, the right larger than the left ; 

 fingers hooked at their extremities, denticulated ; surface of the 

 carpus and hand more coarsely granulated than the carapax ; the 

 granules extend to the ends of the fingers. Color red, with patches 

 of a lighter shade ; three posterior pairs of legs striped ; the last 

 article furnished with a few stiff hairs. Length of the carapax 

 0.18 inch; the hand 0.25 inch. 



Habitat. — Gulf of Teliuan tepee, Mexico. 



PANULIRUS GRACILIS, nov. sp. 

 Plate II. Fig. 2. 



Antennary ring armed with two spines, situated near together 

 on the anterior border ; behind these, and separated more widely 

 from each other, are two rudimentary spines, seen through the 

 lens; two stout horns projecting forward over the base of the 

 ophthalmic peduncles ; surface of the carapax covered with spines, 

 larger anteriorly than posteriorly ; also furnished with a few stiff 

 hairs, attached mostly to the spines ; epistoma armed with three 

 spines ; abdomen smooth ; the transverse sulci, except the last, 

 interrupted in the middle ; a pit between the last nearly connects 

 them, separated by two very narrow bands on either side of the 

 pit. Color reddish-brown ; external antennae striped with bands 

 of white. Length 0.9 inch. 



Habitat. — Gulf of Tehuantepec, Mexico. 



PAL^MON DASYDACTYLUS, nov. sp. 



Plate II. Fig. 3-3a. 



Rostrum long and slender, reflexed, extends beyond the lamel- 



liform appendages of the external antennse ; armed on the superior 



margin with nine or ten teeth, and six or seven on the inferior 



1871.] 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



margin ; the first tooth on the upper margin small, situated more 

 directly on the carapax than, and separated from, the following 

 six, which are situated together ; the seventh and eighth separated 

 by a wider si^ace ; last tooth quite small ; apex of the rostrum 

 pointed ; the fifth tooth on the upper margin (counting from the 

 carapax) uearlj^ over the first on the lower margin ; eighth over 

 the last on the lower margin ; those with but six teeth on the 

 inferior margin have the last under the seventh of the superior 

 margin ; the first constant in its situation. Two external flagella 

 of tlie internal anteunfe united for a very short distance, smaller 

 flagellum very short ; all the others very long. First pair of legs 

 short and slender ; carpus more than twice the length of the 

 hand ; fingers half the length of the hand, slightly pubescent ; 

 second pair of legs very long ; carpus not quite as long as the 

 hand ; fingers cylindrical and straight along their approximated 

 surfaces, not as long as the palmar portion of the hand, densely 

 downy ; under surface of this pair of legs covered with spinules to 

 the base of the fingers ; the spinules on the carpus arranged in 

 four parallel rows, of which the anterior and posterior rows contain 

 the largest spinules. Posterior legs rough to the feel, pubescent* 



This species can verja'eadily be distinguished from P. mexicanus 

 (Saussure), which it most closely resembles, by having six or 

 seven teeth on the inferior margin of the rostrum. The carpus 

 in P. mexicanus is longer than the hand, and the terminal segment 

 of the abdomen is armed with three spines. In P. dasydactylus 

 the terminal segment of the abdomen is armed with five spines — 

 one in the middle, and one at either extremity, and a larger articu- 

 lated one on either side of the middle. 



Length from the tip of the rostrum to the end of the terminal 

 segment 4.3*7 inches. 



Habitat. — Tide-water of the Coatzacoalcos River, Isthmus of 

 Tehuantepec. 



PAL^ffiMON SEXDENTATUS, nov. sp. 

 Plate II. Fig. 4-4a. 



Rostrum long and slender, more relaxed than in the preceding 

 species ; longer than the lamelliform appendages of the external 

 antennae ; armed on the superior margin with nine or ten teeth, 

 and six on the inferior margin ; sixth tooth on the upper margin 

 over the first on the lower ; the last on the lower margin half way 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 227 



between the eighth and ninth on the upper margin ; those witli 

 but nine teeth on the superior margin have the first below under 

 the sjDace between the fourth and fifth ; the last midway under the 

 space between the seventh and eighth of the superior margin. 

 Inner free flagella of a deep red color. Anterior pair of legs slen- 

 der and delicate ; carpus more than twice the length of the baud ; 

 hand slightl}^ pubescent ; second pair of legs slender, smooth on 

 the upper surface ; under surface beset with very minute spiniform 

 granules, seen onl}^ through the lens ; carpus longer than the hand, 

 twice the length of the palmar portion of the hand ; fingers cj'lin- 

 drical, straight, less than half the length of the hand ; posterior 

 legs smooth. Length 2.81 inches. 



This species is very closely allied to P. mexicanus (Saussure), 

 and may prove to be nothing more than a vai-iety of that species. 

 The measurements of the second pair of legs of P. sexdentatus 

 agree with De Saussure's description, but differ widel}' from the 

 measui'ements of his figure. P. mexicanus has but four or five 

 teeth on the inferior margin of the rostrum. The terminal segment 

 of the abdomen in P. sexdentatus is armed with three small teeth, 

 and two longer movable spines situated one on either side of the 

 middle tooth ; the hand is verjr largely beset with hairs. 



Habitat. — Same as the preceding. 



PALiEMON FLUVIALIS, nov. sp. 

 Plate II. Fig. 5-5a. 



Rostrum short, lanceolate, somewhat arched above ; not as long 

 as the lamelliform appendages of the external antennte, reaching 

 to the end of the second joint of the antennae ; superior margin 

 armed with seven teeth, the inferior margin with two, situated 

 near the point of the rostrum. One specimen of this species had 

 but four teeth above and one below. Two flagella of the internal 

 antennae united for a very short distance ; spines on the lateral 

 portion of the carapax very small ; first pair of legs slender ; hand 

 more than half the length of the carpus ; hand of the second pair 

 stout ; carpus shorter than the palmar portion of the hand, gradu- 

 all3'' enlarged toward the hand ; fingers cylindrical and straight, 

 shorter than half of the hand, the same length as the carpus, beset 

 with a few stiff" hairs; legs smooth. Length 1.3 inches. 



This is a fresh-water Pal^mon, taken from a tributary of the 

 Coatzacoalcos River among the Cordilleras. 



18tl.] 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



August 8. 

 Dr. Carson, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Fifteen members present. 



Bema7'ks on Fossil Vertehrates from Wyoming. — Prof. Letdy 

 remarked that the collections of fossils presented this evening, 

 by Drs. J. Van A. Carter and Joseph K. Corson, were of nnusual 

 interest. They consist of remains mainly of turtles, with those 

 of mammals and crocodiles, and were obtained from the tertiai'y 

 deposits in the vicinity of Fort Bridger, Wyoming Territory. 



The great abundance of remains of turtles, of many species and 

 genera, of fresh-water and terrestrial habit, obtained in W3'oming, 

 indicates this region to have swarmed with these animals during 

 the earlier portion of the tertiarj^ period. Crocodiles and lacer- 

 tian reptiles were likewise numerous. The many mammalian 

 remains found in association with the reptilian fossils mainly 

 belong to tapiroid and carnivorous animals. 



The Wyoming tertiary fauna presents a remarkable contrast 

 with the later faunre of the Mauvaises Terres of White River, 

 Dakota, and of the Niobrara River, Nebraska. Among the large 

 number of fossils from these two localities, rich in evidence of 

 mammalian life, there occur the remains of a single species of 

 turtle in each, and none of crocodiles or other reptiles. 



Dr. Carter's collection, besides containing remains of Trionyx 

 guttatus, Emys Jeanesianus, E. Haydeni, and E. Stevensonianus, 

 and Baena arenosa, also adds two new turtles to the list. One 

 of these is a species of Emys of the largest size, and exceeds any 

 now living. The carapace has measured about two feet and a 

 half in length, and the sternum about two feet. In honor of its 

 discoverer, it may be named Emys Carteri. 



The first and second vertebral plates of this species present an 

 unusual, perhaps an anomalous, appearance. The first is 4 inches 

 long, and clavate in shape, with the narrow part foremost. The 

 second is 2^ inches long, and presents the usual hexagonal form 

 reversed. The third plate, a little longer, is quadrate, with convex 

 sides. The first vertebral scute is vase-like in outline, 5^ inches 

 long, 2f inches wide in front, 4f inches near the middle, and 3^ 

 inches at the back border. The second scute, of the oixlinary form, 

 is 5 inches long, and 4 inches wide. 



The second turtle belongs to the recently characterized genus 

 Baena, but is considerably larger than its associated species 

 which have been described. The shell in its complete condition 

 has been upwards of a foot and a half in length, and is seven 

 inches and a half high. The sternum is flat, and about fifteen 

 inches long. Its pedicles ascend at an angle of about 45°, and 

 are seven inches and a half broad. As in the living Eermatemys, 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



and tbe sea-tnrtles, they are covered with large scutes, four in 

 number, as in Baena arenosa. The intermediate vertebral scutes, 

 are longer than broad — the third being 4 inches long, and 3i 

 inches wide. A peculiarity of the species is the undulating 

 manner in which the costal scutes join the marginal scutes, and the 

 sternal scutes one another. The species may be named Baena 

 undafa. 



Dr. Carter's collection also contains some fragments of bones 

 of a large mammal, which are so mutilated as to be hardly charac- 

 teristic. A jaw fragment among them, with the retained fragments 

 of the true molars, would appear to indicate a species of Palseosyops 

 much larger than P. paludosus. In absence of other evidence, it 

 might be viewed as a species of this genus, under the name of 

 P. major. The true molars occupied a space of four and a half 

 inches. The last molar measured an inch and seven-eighths fore 

 and aft, and an inch transversely in front. 



Dr. Carter had also sent some fossils to Prof. Leidy, among 

 which were portions of jaw^s, with nearly full series of teeth of 

 Hyrachyus agrarius. This animal is related to the Tapir, Hyra- 

 codo7i, and Lophiodon. The formula of its dentition is the same 

 as in Hyracodon: 7 molars, 1 canine, and 3 incisors. The true 

 molars are like those of Lophiodon^ except that the last lower one 

 has a bi-lobed instead of a triple-lobed crown. Apparently the 

 same animal has been indicated by Prof. Marsh, under the name 

 of Lophiodon Bairdianus. A fragment of a lower jaw containing 

 the last premolar, and the first true molar, indicates a larger 

 species of Hyrachyus^ which ma}^ be named H. eximius. The 

 crown of the last premolar is 7^ lines antero-posteriorly, and 5^ 

 transversely. The true molar has measured about 8^ lines fore 

 and aft, and 6 lines transversely. The depth of the jaw fragment 

 below the true molar is over an inch and a half. 



Another fossil is a mutilated incisor, indicating a species of 

 Trogosus rather more than half the size of T. castorideyis, which 

 may be named T. vetidus. 



A femur of Palseosyops paludosus, in the collection, exhibits 

 the third trochanter, characteristic of the unequal-toed pachyderms. 

 The astragalus of this animal almost repeats that of the living 

 Tajsirs. 



Among the remains of Dr. Corson's collection, there is the 

 greater part of the lower jaw of a large crocodile, but too much 

 broken to attempt to give an opinion in regard to its specific 

 character, until it is in some degree mended or restored. 



1871.] 




230 proceedings of the academy op 



August 15. 

 The President, Dr. E-uschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eight members present. 



August 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine members present. 



August 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fourteen members present. 



Notice of some Extinct Rodents. — Prof. Leidy remarked that 

 Dr. J. Van A. Carter had recently sent to him some remains of 

 rodents discovered in the tertiary deposits near Fort Bridger, 

 Wyoming. Prof. Marsh has ah-eadj- indicated some remains of 

 the same order, obtained from the same locality, which he has re- 

 ferred to a genus under the name of Sciuravus. The characters 

 given are insufficient to determine positively whether the remains 

 I have the opportunity of examining pertain to the same genus, 

 though, from the greater size of the animals they indicate, they 

 clearly belong to different species. 



The remains appear to have belonged to a peculiar genus of the 

 Sciurine family apparently allied to Arctomys. 



The lower jaw is short and deep compared with that of most 

 living rodents, apparently from a shortening of the bone in ad- 

 vance of the position of the molars. To compensate for this 

 reduction in length, and give room for the incisors, they not only 

 extend beneath all the molars, but also above them posteriorly 

 and externally. Prof. Marsh states that in Sciuravus " the incisor 

 extends below the entire molar series." The hiatus in advance of 

 the molars presents an acute edge nearly on a level with the 

 alveolar border, and does not form a deep notch as usual in living 

 rodents. The masseteric fossa does not extend so far forward as 

 usual in most living rodents, except the hares, only reaching be- 

 low the position of the penultimate molar, where it is bounded by 

 a prominent rectangular ridge, as in the Maryland marmot. The 

 principal mental foramen is situated immediately in advance of 

 the position of the first molar. The symphysis at its lower part 

 apparently extended below the first part of the molar series. 



The number of molars is the same as in the squirrels and mar- 

 mots. They are of nearly uniform size, but are proportionately 

 narrower than in the animals just mentioned, that is, the fore-and- 

 aft diameter exceeds the transverse, which is usually the reverse 



[JSTovember 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



in the sciurine animals. The crown is composed of four lobes, of 

 ■which the antero-internal is the largest and most prominent, the 

 one behind it is the smallest, and the outer ones are of interme- 

 diate size, and neai'ly equal. 



If not Sciuravus, the genus may be named Paramys. The 

 specimens probably indicate three different species of the genus, 

 mainly differing in size. 



Paramys Delicatus — The largest species was perhaps a fourth 

 less in size than the Maryland marmot, though its molar series is 

 equal in length with that of the latter, measuring three-fourths of 

 an inch. The hiatus in advance of the molars has measured about 

 three lines and a half, or about half that in the Marjdand marmot. 

 The depth of the jaw at the first molar is 6i lines, at the penul- 

 timate molar 6 lines. The incisor is 2^ lines fore and aft, and 1^ 

 lines transversely. 



The specimen upon which the species is indicated consists of 

 the greater portion of the right ramus of the lower jaw. It presents 

 two mental foramina, one below the first molar, besides that in 

 the usual position. A prominent tubercle is formed at the angle 

 of convergence of the two ridges bounding the fore part of the 

 masseteric fossa. 



Paramys delicatissimus. — The smallest species is indicated by 

 a similar specimen to the former, and was about two-thirds the 

 size of the largest species. The molar series is half an inch in 

 length. The hiatus in advance of the molars measures 2| lines. 

 The depth of the jaw at the first molar is 4^ lines, at the penulti- 

 mate molar 4 lines. The incisor is 1^ lines fore and aft, and 1 line 

 transversely. 



Paramys delicatior. — An intermediate species is apparently 

 indicated by the greater portion of a left ramus of the lower jaw. 

 The molar series has measured about 1j lines in length. The 

 jaw is 5 lines deep at the penultimate molar. The incisor is 2 

 lines fore and aft, and l^ lines transversely. 



A smaller rodent than the preceding, and of a different genus, 

 is indicated by the portion of a lower jaw containing the posterior 

 two molars, and the fangs of the two in advance. 



The constitution of the jaw is similar to that in the former 

 genus. The jaw being comparatively short and deep ; the hiatus 

 in advance of the molars short and nearly straight, and the masse- 

 teric fossa advancing only as far as the position of the penulti- 

 mate molar. The molars are inserted each by two fangs ; their 

 crowns are slightly greater fore and aft, especially the first and 

 last of the series. 



The crown of the penultimate molar in its worn condition pre- 

 sents a pair of transverse elliptical dentinal tracts united by a 

 narrow median fore-and-aft isthmus. In the slight recess of the 

 inner poles of the ellipses of dentine, a small tubercle projects 

 with a circular islet of dentine on the summit. The crown of the 



1871.] 




f 



232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



last molar exhibits five shallow tubercles with minute dentinal 

 islets at the summits. 



The size of the animal was but little greater than the domestic 

 mouse. The molar series measures 3 lines in length. From the 

 front of the incisor to the back of the last molar measures 4| 

 lines. The relations of this extinct rodent I have not determined, 

 nor can I refer it to any genus with which I am familiar. It may 

 be named Mysops minimus. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — 



[November 21, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELnilA. 233 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF BIRDS OF THE FAMILIES 

 TROGLODYTID^ AND TYRANNID^. 



BY GEO. N. LAWRENCE. 



TROGLODYTIDiE. 



1. Catherpes sumiclirasti. 



Upper plumage and wing coverts of a deep reddish-brown, sides 

 of the head lighter, and the rump more of a blackish-brown ; 

 quills dark brownish-black, the secondaries narrowly edged with 

 the same color as the back, and crossed with darker nearly obso- 

 lete bars ; throat of a dull light grayish-rufous, breast and sides 

 of the neck of a clear rather dark rufous, each feather of the 

 lower neck and breast crossed with several faint dusky narrow 

 bars ; the abdomen is dark reddish-brown, besprinkled with small 

 round white .spots, which are surrounded narrowly with black, 

 the sides of the breast and abdomen are of a dark reddish-brown, 

 crossed with not very conspicuous black bars ; the sides under 

 the wings, thighs, and under tail coverts deep blackish-brown 

 like the rump ; upper mandible black, tlie under is yellow, except 

 at the end and on the sides for its terminal half, where it is black- 

 ish-brown ; "iris brown ;" tarsi and toes black; the tail, unfortu- 

 nately, is deficient. 



Length to rump, 5 inches; wing, 2^ ; bill, l^; tarsi, 1^; hind 

 toe and claw, |. 



Habitat. " Mata Bejuco (Yera Cruz)." 



" Collected by Mr. T. Labarraque." 



Type in Museum Smithsonian Institution, from the collection 

 of Prof. F. Sumichrast. 



Remarks. — This is rather a remarkable looking bird, and seems 

 to be a second species of Catherpes., though of a much stouter 

 form and darker colors than C. mexicanus ; the bill is precisely 

 of the same form, though proportionally stronger, and the mi- 

 nute white spots on the abdomen are similar to those on the back 

 of that species ; the wings are very short and rounded, and the 

 feet large and strong. 



It was received over two years since, and I delayed its descrip- 

 tion hoping to get others, that b}' the character of the tail its 



1871.] PART II.— 16 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



true position might be more satisfactorily determined. Prof. 

 Sutnichrast has not been able to obtain any more specimens, and, 

 as he has informed me his collections are suspended for the pre- 

 sent on account of the revolution which has taken place in Tehuan- 

 tepec, I have concluded to describe it, and have conferred his 

 name upon it. 



TYRANNIDiE. 



2. Myiozetetes grandis. 



Crown dusk3' olive-gray, with a concealed crest of bright ver- 

 milion ; front and sides of the crown pale yellowish-white, the 

 stripe becoming broader as it extends backwards ; lores and sides 

 of the head dark grayish fuliginous ; upper plumage greenish- 

 olive ; tail feathers dark brown, narrowlj^ margined with the color 

 of the back; quills dark brown, narrowly edged with greenish- 

 yellow ; the smaller wing coverts are the color of the back, the 

 middle and larger coverts dark brown, tipped with dull pale 

 yellow ; throat grayish-white, just tinged with yellow ; entire under 

 parts besides, and under wing coverts gamboge 3'ellow ; bill and 

 feet black. 



Length, 1| inches ; wing, 3| ; tail, 3f ; tarsi, |. 



Habitat. "Province of Turabes, Peru." 



The type is in the Museum of Yassar College, and was received 

 by Prof. Orton from J. F. Reeve, Esq. 



Remarks. — This species somewhat exceeds all others of the 

 genus in size, and is also of a deeper 3'ellow below ; in its colora- 

 tion and markings it most resembles 31. columbianiis, but besides 

 its much greater dimensions, it differs in having a wider supercil- 

 liary stripe, which, with the throat, is more tinged with yellow, 

 also in the deeper coloring of the under plumage ; it, likewise, is 

 somewhat like 31. texensis, but is rather larger; in that species, 

 however, the wing coverts are without j'ellowish margins. 



3. Empidonax atrirostris. 



The feathers of the crown are light brown, slightlv rufescent 

 and with dusk}' centres ; the front is grayish-white, and a line of 

 the same color extends from the bill to over the eye ; plumage 

 above of a light brownish-olive ; tail feathers blackish-brown, the 

 outer web of the lateral feather and the ends of all edged with 

 dull gray; the wing coverts and quills are blackish-brown, all ex- 



[December 5, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



cept the primaries, conspicuously margined with dull white; throat 

 grayish-white ; lower part of neck in front and upper part of breast 

 light cinereous; breast, abdomen, under tail coverts, and under 

 wing coverts pale yellow ; inner margins of quills grayish-white; 

 entire bill black; tarsi and toes brownish-black. 



Length (skin), 5^ inches ; wing, 2§; tail, 2|; bill, ^\ ; tarsi, \}r. 



Habitat. Venezuela? Collected by Mr. C. Wood. 



Type in my collection. 



Remarks. — The nearest ally of this species seems to be E. tra- 

 illii^ but the plumage above is l)rowner, with scarcely a tinge of 

 olive-green ; the margins of the wing coverts and quills are whitei-, 

 besides, the gray front and supercilliary stripe do not exist in E. 

 traillii; in the new species the yellow of the abdomen is much 

 brighter, but the smaller jet black bill is the most striking cha- 

 racteristic difference. 



4. Myiarclius yucatanensis. 



Myiarclius mexicanus. Lawr. Ann. Lj'c. X. Y., vol. IX., p. 203. 



Soon after suggesting that this bird might be Tgrannula mexi- 

 cnna, Kaup, on account of its short wings, and contending for 

 the integrity of my 31. ciner'ascens (generally referred to mexi- 

 canus) on account of its longer wings, I found from an examina- 

 tion of many examples of cinerascens tliat the measurement of 

 the wings was not a reliable character in this genus. This caused 

 me to question the probability of the Yucatan bird being Kaup's 

 mexicanus, and I concluded the true status of that species could 

 only be determined by an inspection of the tj'pe. Consequently 

 I solicited the aid of Mr. Sclater, sending him my specimen of the 

 Yucatan bird, and about the same time Prof. Baird sent the 

 Smithsonian specimen, with the request that he would endeavor to 

 get a view of Dr. Kaup's type. He recently wrote Prof Baird 

 that on application to Dr. Kaup, he sent the t^'pe of his T. mexi- 

 cana for examination, which, to his surprise, proved to be 31. 

 cooperi., Baird. 



The species now described, therefore, required to be named. 



Its length is 1j inches ; wing, 3f ; tail, 3|; tarsi, |. 



It is allied to 31. cinerascens, mexicanus, and lawrencii, but is 

 smaller than the first two, and rather larger than the last ; the 

 bill is not so depressed as in laiorencii, the culmen being more 

 rounded. It differs from all the above-named species iu being 

 18T1.J 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



brown above, and in the color of the abdomen and under tail 

 coverts being of a pale dull ochreous, whereas in the others these 

 parts are clear yellow ; the red color on the inner tail feathers 

 occupies the outer portion of the inner webs for half their width, 

 this color blends with the dark color next the shaft, the separa- 

 tion of the colors is not so clearly marked as in mexicanus. The 

 extent of the red color on the tail feathers is a good character on 

 which to separate the allied species, in M. cinerascens this color 

 occupies the entire web up to the shaft ; in mexicanus it takes up 

 about four-fifths, leaving a well-defined dark line next the shaft ; 

 in yucatanensis it extends over half of the inner web ; but in laiv- 

 rencii it exists only as a mere bordering, and in many specimens 

 it is very faint. 



[December 5, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPIIIA. 237 



September 5. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 

 Ten members present. 



September 12. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



Eighteen members present. 



The following paper was presented for pnblication : " Catalogue 

 of Crustacea from the Isthmus of Panama, collected by J. A. 

 McNeil." By T. Hale Streets. 



September 10. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



September 2G. 



The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in the chair. 



p]leven members present. 



The death of Dr. .John Edward Holbrook was announced. 

 On favorable report of the committee the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — • 



IG^ 



.871.] 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CATALOGUE OF CRUSTACEA FROM THE ISTHMUS OF PANAMA. 

 COLLECTED BY J. A. McNEIL. 



BY T. HALE STREETS. 



BRACHYURA. 



MAIOIDEA. 

 Family MAIIDEA. 

 Subfamily Pisinae. 

 Omalacantlia, nov. gen. 



Carapax pyriform as in Pisa. Orbit complete above and below, 

 oval, superior border armed with a triangular tooth. Eye verj' 

 small; peduncle short. Rostrum well developed, bifurcated nearly 

 to base, horns divergent, apices convergent ; praeorbital tooth flat- 

 tened, obtuse; external anteunai not hidden by rostrum, but com- 

 pletely exposed, on same level as rostrum ; first and second arti- 

 cles broad, flattened, clubbed at distal extremit}'. 



This genus is very closely allied to that little known genus, 

 Micropli7-y^^^ M. Edw. It is readily distinguished from Microphryii 

 hy its greater triangular form (not being broader than long); by 

 the broad, club-shaped articles of external antenuii? (in llicrophrya 

 they are cylindrical), and by the antero-lateral border of carapax 

 beiiig less inflated. 



Omalacantha Mrsuta, nov. 5p. 



Carapax triangular, convex, tuberculated, pilose ; hairs hooked 

 at extremity; prominent spine projecting from junction of antero- 

 lateral with postero-lateral border; another smaller spine below, 

 and in front of this on branchial region ; spine on hepatic region 

 below and behind external angle of orbit; one on side of branchial 

 region, near the groove separating it from hepatic; row of five 

 small tubercles on inferior border of hepatic region ; on gastric 

 region tubercles arranged in the form of the letter T; an arcuate 

 row of four tubercles on intestinal region ; another single one 

 below these at posterior extremity of same region. Longitudinal 

 row of hairs on horn of rostrum, and continuing on lateral portion 



' For description, see ''Zoologie Expedition dans rAinerique du Sud, 

 p;ir Castlenau." 



[December 5, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 239 



of branchial region. Tooth on superior margin of orbit obtuse ; 

 orbit obtuse at external angle. External antennas ciliated ; ros» 

 trum slightly reflexed, more so in female than in male. The chcli- 

 peds larger in male than in female, smooth, with exception of arm, 

 ■which presents a row of tubercles on upper surface; covered with 

 rounded spots of a violet-red color. Fingers closely approximated 

 and finely denticulated at extremity ; in female approximated 

 along their whole length. Two or three rudimentary tubercles 

 on third article of second pair of feet. A deep red spot at tlie 

 projecting lateral angle of carapax. Color reddish shade. Length, 

 1.37 inch; breadth, .9-1 inch. 



Subfamily Mitiiracin^. 

 Mithraculus coronatus, Stimpson. An. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vol. VII., p. 186. 



CANCROIDEA. 

 Family CANCRID^. 



Subfamily Xanthine. 



Carpilius corallinus, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. d«s Crust., torn. I., p. 381. 



Actaea labyrinthica, Stimpfon, An. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vol. VII., p. 204. 



Menippe mercenaria, Stimpson. Cancer mercenaria, Say. Journ. Acad. Nat, 



Sei. Phila., vol. I., p. 448. 



Panopaeus chilensis, EJw. et Lucas. D'tDrbigny's Voy. en Am. Merid., Crust., p. 

 16; pL VIII., fig. 1. 



Family ERIPHIDJE. 



Subfamily Eriphin/E. 



Eriphia gonagra, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., tvm. I., p. 426, pi. XVI., figs. 16 

 and 17. Dana. U. S. Expl. Esped., Crust., vol. I., p. 25'0. 



Family PORTUNID^E. 



Subfamily Lupin,.e. 

 Xupa dicantlia, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. I., p. 451. Dana, U.S. E.xpl. 



Exped., Crust., vol. I., p. 272, pi. XVI., fig. 7. 

 Lupa rubra, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., tool. I., p. 454. 



ISTI.] 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



OCYPODOIDEA. 



Family MACROPIITHALMID.E, 



Subfamily Ocypodin^. 



Ocypoda Gaudichaudii, Edw. et Lucas. DOrbignj-'s Voy. en Am. M^iid., Crujt., p* 



2(5, pi. XI., fig. 4. 

 Ocypoda rhombea, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. II., p. 46. 



Family GRAPSID^. 



Subfitmily Grapsin^. 

 Grapsus pictus, Latr. ; M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. II., p. 86. 



Family GACARCINID^. 



Subfamily Ucain^. 

 Uca lavis, M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. II., p. 22. 



ANOMOURA. 



Family HIPPID^. 



Hippa emerita, Pabr. : M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. 11., p. 205. 



Family PORCELLANID^. 



Petrolisthes armatus, Stimpson. An. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vol. II-, p. 73. Por^ 

 eellana arniata, Gibbes, Proc. Am. Assoc, ISoO, p. 176. 



Petrolistlies ocoidentalis, Stimpson. An. Lye. Nat. Hist. N. Y., vol. VII., p. 73. 



Family PAGURID^. 



Subfamily Paguki?s.<k. 

 Aniculus longitarsis, nov. sp. 



This species is very closely allied to A. fypicus, Dana, but dif- 

 ftii's from it in the greater length of the tarsus of the ambulatory 

 feet. In Paguri.is aniculus (Aniculus h/picus^ Dana), Milne Ed- 

 Avards describes the tarsus as being " extremely short." Xo state- 

 ment is made as to its length in comparison with the preceding 

 article; but in Dana's figure, and in that figured in Quoy and 

 (iaymard, Y03-. de I'Urania, it is shorter than the preceding arti- 

 cle. In A. longifarsis it is always longer. The median areolet is 

 distinct, trapezium-shaped, and is not produced to the posterior 

 edge of the gastric region. 



[December 5, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



Family CENOBITID^E. 



Cenobita diogenes, Latr. M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. II., p. 240, pL XXII., 

 figs. II and 1.3. 



Cenobita intermedia, nov. sp. 



Anterior portion of carapax convex, narrowed in front, -granu- 

 lated. Differs from C. purpurea, Stm., in not being more granu- 

 lated posteriorly than anteriorly, nor are the granules acute and 

 setous. Lateral portion pilous ; margin of branchial region pro- 

 jecting, prominent. E^^^es compressed, triangular, acute ; pedun- 

 cles nearlj' as high as long, finely granulated on superior surface. 



Til)ia of the third pair of legs, left side, produced at inferior 

 border; ultimate and penultimate articles convex externally', 

 smooth and punctate as in C. purpurea; tarsus irregularly quadri- 

 lateral, longer than right ; inferior surface concave; fine, close-set 

 row of black-tipped spinules on inferior surface of tarsi of second 

 and third legs, left side. Legs spinulose (with exception men- 

 tioned), hairj'^; tarsi triangular, concave on inferior surface. Ex- 

 ternal surface of larger hand sparsely granulated; granules of a 

 pearly appearance. Coxa? of fifth pair produced in male. Length 

 of carapax .94 inch. 



Cenobita panamensis, nov. sp. 



Carapax as in C. intermedia. Eyes also similar. Tibia of third 

 leg, left side, slightly produced at inferior angle; penultimate 

 article convex externally and granulated, in this respect differing 

 from C. purpurea and C. intermedia; tarsus irregularly quadrilate- 

 ral, shorter than right, thereby differing from C. perlata and C. in- 

 termedia; row of spinules on supero-lateral margin; row on supe- 

 rior surface; spinules sparsely on external surface; denticulated 

 ridge on inferior surface of tarsi of second and third pairs ; 

 spinules black-tipped ; inferior surface not so much evacuated as 

 in C. intermedia, triangular. Larger hand granulated ; granules 

 acute, except on external surface, black-tipped. Coxae of fifth 

 pair produced in male. 



Length of carapax 1.62 inch. 



1871.] 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



MACROURA. 



Family GEBID.E. 

 Gebia longipollex, nov. sp. 



Front tridentate ; mirldle tooth largest, and presents at its ex- 

 tremity two small obtuse teeth, which give to it a l)ifid appearance 

 when looked at from above; furrowed in the median line; small 

 spine on antero-lateral margin of carapax just over the external 

 antennas; anterior portion of carapax rough and hirsute; scabrous 

 surface reaching about halfway to the dorsal suture. Hands equal, 

 smooth, without spines or teeth, marked with longitudinal rows 

 of hair; row on inferior margin ver^^ long; thumb long, reaching 

 almost to extrerait}^ of finger, slightl}' incurved ; movable finger 

 very pilose, with two teeth on inferior margin — one near base, 

 and one near apex ; latter receives point of thumb ; two very 

 small teeth situated together near base of thumb ; spine on upper 

 and lower apex of carpus, and two small ones on antero-lateral 

 margin ; spine on distal extremity of arm. Second pair of legs 

 ciliate above and below at extremity ; tarsus smooth ; third arti- 

 cle ciliate below, and armed with spine above at distal exti'emlty ; 

 remaining pairs unarmed. Caudal segment rectangular. 



Length, 1.12 inch. 



Family PALINURID.E. 



Panulirus guttatus, Gray. Palinurus guttatus, Latr. Ann. du Mus., torn. III., p. 

 393; M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des Crust., torn. II., p. 297, pi. XXII., fig. 1. 



Panulirus americanus. Palinurus americanus. Lamarck. M. Edw. Hist. Nat. des 

 Crust., tuiu. II., p. 298. 



Family PAL^EMONIDoE. 



Subfamily Alphein^. 

 Alpheus bispinosus, nov. sp. 



Carapax compressed ; rostrum short, acute; surface between the 

 e^-es carinated; anterior border of e3'e-shields rounded, and with- 

 out spines. Lamelliform appendages of external antennse not 

 quite as long as base, little longer than base of internal antennre. 

 Second article of internal antennae twice as long as first and third ; 

 basal tooth of inner antennas not longer than first article; basal 

 spine of outer antennas short, and hooked inward. Hands of first 

 pair of feet unequal ; margins of larger hand indented near the 



[December 5, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 243 



fingers; lower indentation deep; snrfaces sulcated, uneven; margins 

 of the fingers beset with long hairs; movable finger considerably 

 hooked at extremity ; smaller hand cylindrical and regular ; fingers 

 longer than palmar portion of the hand ; inner edges of approxi- 

 mated borders pubescent ; no spines on arm. Feet of second 

 pair but little longer than third ; first joint of carpus as long as 

 second and third, and little longer than third, fourth, and fifth ; 

 fifth not as long as third and fourth, and shorter than hand ; 

 third article of following pairs of legs devoid of spine at inferior 

 apex. 



Length, 1.5 inch. 



Family PEN^ID.^. 

 Panaeus occidentalis, nov. sp. 



Rostrum longer than the lamelliform appendages of the outer 

 antennas, recurved, pointed at extremitj'. In the examination of 

 a number of specimens the majority presented ten teeth on the 

 superior margin of the rostrum, and four on the inferior; may 

 vary from eight to eleven on the upper, and from four to five on 

 the lower border. Carapax carinated almost to posterior edge ; 

 sulcus on each side of rostrum terminating about midwa}'^ the 

 carapax ; spine situated on lateral portion near anterior border, 

 opposite the insertion of superior antennae ; ridge running from 

 this spine obliquely downward and backward; second spine be- 

 hind, and on a lower level than the first, and separated fi'om it by 

 a sulcus ; two smaller sulci forming tvvo sides of a triangle around 

 base of second spine. Eye large and rounded ; sulcus on external 

 border of peduncle. Flagella of superior antennae usually shorter 

 than antennary peduncle (in one large specimen the}' were longer). 

 Bases of two first pairs of legs armed with three spines — two on 

 first pair, and one on second ; terminal segment of abdomen sul- 

 cated, pointed, devoid of lateral spines; penultimate and ante- 

 penultimate segments carinated — the ridge commencing on the 

 segment before the antepenultimate, and terminating at the end 

 of penultimate in an acute spine. Length of large specimen five 

 inches. 



The greatest aflfinities of this species are with r.indicus, Edvv. 



18T1.] 





natural sciences of philadelphia. 245 



October 3, 1871. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to some observations made by 

 him last spring before the Academy in regard to the office of bud 

 scales and involucral bracts. The general impression was that 

 they were formed for the purpose of protecting the tender parts 

 beneath. At that time he exhibited branches oi Fraxinus excel- 

 sior on which some of the buds were entirely naked, and others 

 clothed with scales in the usual manner. They could scarcely be 

 for protection in this instance, as both were equally hardy. 



He now had to exhibit an ear of corn which had been produced 

 without the usual involucral bracts or husks, and yet was as per- 

 fect as if clothed in the usual way, showing that the husk was of 

 not much importance as a protecting agent. An interesting point 

 was that this ear had been formed on the end of a male panicle 

 or tassel. It was not uncommon to find scattered grains of corn 

 amongst male flowers, but a perfect ear like this he had never 

 before seen. The ear was eight-rowed, and contained two hun- 

 dred perfect grains. It was the variety known as " popcorn." 



Dr. Howell announced the death of Mr. Chas. Wilson Peale. 



October 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



Remarks on the Minerals of Mount Mica. — Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that the specimens of minerals presented this evening by 

 Ml". Bement and himself were part of a collection which ihey had 

 obtained at Mt. Mica, near Paris, Oxford Co., Maine. At the 

 invitation of, and in company with. Dr. A. C. Hamlin, of Bangor, 

 they had recently made a visit to that locality, celebrated for its 

 beautiful tourmalines and other interesting minerals. 



The position in which these occur is a ledge of coarse albitic 

 granite upon the brow of a hill known as Mt. Mica. The granite 

 has been quarried in the search of mineral specimens to the extent 

 of about forty square yards, and, thus exposed, appears mainly 

 composed of a tough, white, amorphous feldspar, without distinct 

 cleavage, and with quartz sparingly disseminated. The white feld- 

 spar is mottled with black tourmalines, varying in size from an 

 inch to a foot in length. These are brittle, and so firmly fixed in 

 position as rarely to be isolated in an entire condition. In many 

 positions the quartz and feldspar occur more intimately inter- 

 mingled in the condition of graphic granite. 

 18T2.] part iil— it 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Most parts of the rock are devoid of mica, but in some posi- 

 tions an abundance of large crystals of muscovite are mingled 

 with the other constituents. The muscovite, of a smoky color, 

 often contains compressed crystals of tourmaline, mostly olive- 

 green and translucent, simple or compound, and more or less ra- 

 diant. 



Apparently occupying recesses in the common rock, there occur 

 minerals of a difi'erent character. Masses of pink lepidolite, 

 associated with laminar albite, smoky quartz, cleavable masses of 

 ambh'gonite, cookeite, and variouslj^ colored tourmalines; silvery 

 white mica containing apple-green, friable tourmalines; and usu- 

 ally oi^aque greenish or nearly white beryls. 



Contiguous with these curious associations of minerals, pockets 

 are met with filled with decomposed albite, crystals of smoky 

 quartz, detached botryoidal masses of cookeite and tourmalines. 

 The finest specimens of the latter are raked together with the 

 other loose contents from the pockets. They are also found im- 

 bedded in some of the more solid associated rocks, the lepidolite, 

 the cookeite, and the smoky quartz. 



The tourmalines are remarkable, being usually partly colored of 

 various shades of green passing into red, and partially opaque to 

 transparent. Small cr3'stals from half an inch to an inch and a 

 half in length, and from half a line to the fourth of an inch in 

 thickness, occur abundantly imbedded in the cookeite. In spongy 

 masses of the latter, they appear closel}^ invested with thick 

 sheaths of the same substance. These smaller tourmalines are 

 visually bright grass-green, and transparent, but others are nearly 

 colorless, and green or pink at one end. Frequently they are 

 fissured, partially decomposed, and sometimes the decomposition 

 extends along the axis, so as to render the crj^stals tubular. 



The tourmalines of the pink lepidolite usually occur in compa- 

 ratively large crj^stals, firmly imbedded or even incorporated with 

 the lepidolite and albite. These are opaque and brittle, and rarely 

 obtained except in fractured specimens imbedded in the inclosing 

 mineral. They are dark indigo-blue, constituting the variety in- 

 dicolite, but oftener are dark olive-green with a rose-pink exterior, 

 which at times appears gradually to pass into the condition of the 

 surrounding lepidolite. 



The largest and finest tourmalines, obtained from the loose 

 material of the pockets previously mentioned, almost invariably 

 occur in a fractured condition. Two pockets exposed in our pre- 

 sence, communicated with fissures of the surrounding rock, and 

 the contents, as raked forth, were observed to be quite moist. 

 During the winter their contents are probably frozen, and the 

 freezing of water in fine fissures of the tourmalines probably ac- 

 counts for their being usuall3' found in a fractured state. 



The tourmalines of the cavities occur from those of a small size 

 up to such as measure three or four inches or more in length, and 

 from half an inch to an inch and a half in diameter, doubl)^ termi- 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 24T 



nated, with one extremity flat, and the other three-sided, with the 

 angles or borders truncated. 



Sometimes the cr3'stals occur opaque, dark green at one end, 

 becoming bright grass-green and transparent at the middle, and 

 passing into cherrj^ or rose-red and transparent at the other end. 

 Occasionall}' the green color is nearlj- absent, and we have an 

 achroite with a greenish hue, passing successively into a deeper 

 shade of green and dark green, or into pink and deep cherr^'-red, 

 usuallj^ sheathed with a thin laj-er of greenish hue at the oppo- 

 site end. 



In a cr3'stal exhibited, measuring four inches in length by three- 

 fourths of an inch in diameter, flat at one end, and three-sided at 

 the opposite end, the first inch is dark opaque green, the second 

 inch is bright grass-green and transparent, the third inch is pale 

 pink within and pale green without, and the fourth inch is cherry- 

 red within and pale green without. 



A segment exhibited of a transparent prism of achroite, an inch 

 long and an inch and a half in diameter, has upon one end a patch 

 of cookeite. This mineral often occurs investing the ends, frac- 

 tured surfaces, and sides of the tourmalines. 



Another specimen exhibited consists of a crystal an inch and a 

 half long and ten lines thick, with a three-sided termination, 

 deeph^ striated, and of a dark green color. Broken across near 

 the base, the interior exhibits a spherical nodule of transparent 

 achroite the third of an inch in diameter. 



Some magnificent crystals of the kind indicated have been for 

 many years in possession of Dr. Hamlin and his father, who first 

 discovered the locality from whence they were obtained. Dr. 

 Hamlin has more recently thoroughly explored the locality and 

 investigated the character of its tourmalines, an account of which 

 he proposes to give us in a future essay on the subject. 



October IT. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen members present. 



Remarks on Fossils from Oregon. — Prof. Leidy directed atten- 

 tion to some fossils, part of a collection from Oregon, submitted 

 to his examination by Rev. Thomas Condon, and indicated in the 

 Proceedings of October 18th, 1870. 



One of the fossils, a brain cast, or rather a cast of the interior 

 of the cranium of a large mammal, has about the same form and 

 size as that of the horse. The cerebral hemispheres are nearlj' as 

 much convoluted as in the latter, and measure about four and a 

 half inches in length and breadth. It may pertain to a large 

 tapiroid animal, though I suspect it belonged to an oreodont. 

 1872.] 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



A large atlas, perhaps belonging to the same animal as the 

 former siDecimeu, measures five inches in breadth between the 

 outer prominent borders of the articuhir concavities for the occi- 

 pital condj'les, and it is about four and a half inches from the 

 neural tubercle to the hypapoph3'sis. It differs in several impor- 

 tant points from the atlas of the rhinoceros, horse, ox, etc., and the 

 want of sufficient means of comparison prevents a determination 

 of its near relationship. 



Another fossil, labelled "Alkali Flats," consists of the greater 

 part of the crown apparently of a last upper premolar or perhaps 

 of a transverse pair of lobes of a true molar, of an animal as 

 large as that to which the preceding specimens belonged. The 

 tooth approaches in character the corresponding portion in the 

 oreodonts, but differs in the proportion atel}'^ less degree of devel- 

 opment of the inner lobe of the crown as compared with the 

 outer one, and in the greater degree of development of the inner 

 basal ridge. The crown measures an inch and a third in trans- 

 verse diameter. These fossils appear to indicate an unknown 

 pachyderm, which may be designated by the name of Hadrohyus 



SUPREMUS. 



Among the Oregon fossils there are a number of imperfect re- 

 mains, of which it was formerly remarked, they indicated at least 

 two species of rhinoceros. One of these was thought to be the 

 same as the R. occidenfalis ; the other was suspected to be the 

 same as the Californian species, B. hesperius. Some additional 

 specimens indicate the second species to have been intermediate in 

 size to that last named, and the R. crassus of the Niobrara River. 

 One of the specimens from Bridge Creek, consisting of a mutilated 

 upper jaw fragment with portions of the fangs of the true molars, 

 shows these to have occupied a space of about five inches. An 

 isolated tooth, from Alkali Flat, apparently a last upper premolar, 

 probably belongs to the same animal. From the outer part of 

 its crown three folds project into the bottom of the median valley. 

 The tooth measures 1 inch and 10 lines wide. The species may 

 be named Rhinoceros pagificus. 



Another fossil specimen, labelled " Crooked River," consists 

 of an isolated vertebral plate of a large turtle, apparently the 

 eighth bone of the series. It has the same shape as in Sti/lemys 

 niohrarensi's^ but is proportionately much shorter in relation 

 with its breadth. It measures 2 inches wide, 1 inch 1 lines long, 

 and 7 lines thick. The specimen probably indicates an unde- 

 scribed species, which may be named Stylemys oregonensis. 



Two additional fossils are brain casts, probably of Oreodon 

 superbus. The cerebral hemispheres are 10 inches 8 lines long, 

 and together about 2^ inches broad. 



[January 16, 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 249 



October 24. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen members present. 



October 31. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twelve members present. 



On report of the committee, the following- pai)er was ordered 

 to be printed : — 



18t2.] 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



ON THE FISHES OF THE AMBYIACU EIVER. 

 BY EDWARD D. COPE. 



The collection on which the present examination is based was 

 made by our correspondent at Pebas, John Hauxwell. It em- 

 braces fishes of the small streams tributary to the Ambyiacu, as 

 well as those of the river itself. The Ambyiacu is an inconsid- 

 erable river, which empties into the Amazon near to Pebas, in 

 Eastern Equador, some distance east of the Napo. 



The results of the examination will be mentioned at the close 

 of the list. As was to have been supposed, it consists almost 

 exclusively of representatives of the three great families which 

 abound in the neotropical region; the Ghromididae, representing 

 Physoclystous fishes, and the Gharacinidse and Siluridae, repre- 

 senting the Physostomi. The number of new species, forty-five 

 in a total of seventy-four, constitutes a considerable addition to 

 ichthyology, especially as the number of new generic forms is also 

 rather large. 



I add a list of the species obtained by my friend Robert Per- 

 kins, of Wilmington, Delaware, on a trip between the mouth of 

 the Rio Negro and the Peruvian Amazon or Ucayale River. There 

 are several interesting novelties in this collection, but their spe- 

 cial localities are, unfortunately, not preserved. The specimens 

 generally were large, and in fine condition. 



CHROMIDIDiE. 



PTEROPHYLLITM SCALARE, C. V. 



Heckel, Ann. Wien. Mms., 1840, 334. Giiuther, Catal. B. M. v. 316. 



Abundant in the Ambj'iacu. 



GEOPHAGTJS AMOENTJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Allied to G. tseniatus {Mesops, Giinth.). Scales in three series 

 on the cheek; on the body, 2-25-8. Fin radii D. xv. 7, A. iii. 6. 

 Twelfth dorsal spine less than half the length of the head ; spines 

 subequal, slightly shortening anteriorly. Prolonged soft raj^s of 

 dorsal and anal extending beyond the caudal. Pectoral to, ven- 

 tral beyond, base of anal. Length of head less than depth of 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 251 



body, nearly four inches in length (with caudal); depth, 3.5 times 

 in the same. Orbit, twice i^reorbital bone, equal muzzle, one- 

 fourth wider than interorbital space, one-third head. 



Total length .0G3 m.; to basis anal .0335; do. ventral .019; 

 do. dorsal (axial) .015 m. Color brown; a black band from 

 orbit to basis caudal. A black spot at base, and one at tip of 

 caudal. Basis of dorsal and anal brown, rest 3'ellow. A black 

 band from orbit to angle of interoperculura. Cheeks and opercu- 

 lum with blue spots separated by yellow lines. River Ambyiacu. 



GEOPHAGTJS BADIIPINNIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form short oval ; body deep; front steeply descending, concave 

 between the orbits ; the muzzle projecting. Depth one-half length 

 without caudal fin; head 2.4 times in the same. Orbit 3.5 times 

 in length of head; 1.3 times into interorbital space, which equals 

 length of muzzle with under jaw. Preorbital bone .^15 the dia- 

 meter of the orbit. End of maxillary bone falling opposite the 

 pupil. Fin rays D. xiii-12, A. iii-11. Scales 3-21-8-10; six 

 series on the cheek; operculum scaled. Twelfth dorsal ray equal 

 length of muzzle plus half of orbit ; the rays gradually diminish- 

 ing in length to the second. Caudal fin broadl}^ scaly at base ; 

 no scales at base of second dorsal. Pectoral fin long, extending 

 to opposite last soft dorsal ray ; ventrals to third soft anal. 



Color golden, blue bands on the jjrefrontal bone, and longitu- 

 dinal shades on the scales. Dorsal fin dusky spotted, anal with 

 numerous bay-yellow spots in vertical rows. Total length .15 m.; 

 to origin dorsal (vertical line) .043 ; do. to ventral .051; do. anal 

 .084. 



This species, having the coloration of G. ju7'upari, has the orbit 

 nearly as median as in G. tseniatus. I do not see the necessity 

 of subdividing Heckel's genus Geophagus into three {Geophagus^ 

 Sataiioperca, and 3Iesops),SiS has been proposed by GUnther (Catal. 

 Brit. Mas.). 



GEOPHAGUS JURUPARI, Heckel. 

 Satanoperca jurupari, Giinth. Cat. B. M. v. 313. 



D. XV. 10, A. iii. 7. Scales 3-31-9; suborbitals 6 (7) rows. Pre- 

 orbital bone 1.G6 times orbit. 



1872.] 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



CRENICICHLA ANTHURUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



A slender species, with briglitly colored fins. Depth six times 

 in total length, or 5.3 times in length without caudal fin. Length 

 of head 3.66 in total length, five and two-third times more than 

 the diameter of the orbit. Orbit 1.7 times in muzzle, 1.6 times in 

 interorbital width, which is flat. Scales 4^-36-7-13, but, as those 

 of the lateral line are placed at intervals, the true number of 

 transverse series of scales is 62.3; scales of cheek in nine series. 

 Fin radii, D. xix-13; A. iii-9. Caudal cuneate rounded; pectoral 

 and ventral coequal, not extending half-way to anal. Twelfth 

 dorsal spine equalling from end of chin to orbit. Some rays of 

 soft dorsal and anal prolonged, the former to near end of caudal, 

 the latter to base. 



Color leaden-brown above, fading into yellowish below. Dorsal 

 and anal fins deep rose, with a few round small spots of pale 

 rose on the soft portions, which become white in spirits. Caudal 

 fin deep crimson, fading to purple at base, with a longitudinal 

 dark shade in the centre, and series of small oval pink spots, one 

 between each pair of raj'^s. A black spot edged with white at the 

 . base above the lateral line, and a larger black spot, white-edged, 

 crossing the lateral line opposite the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal 

 spines. 



Total length .215 m.; to basis dorsal (axial) .055 m.; to basis 

 of anal .121. 



This perch appears to be similar to the C. laciistris of Castel- 

 nau in proportions, but the coloration is very different. I have 

 three specimens from the Ambyiacu. It is less slender than the 

 C. lucius, Cope,' and has a considerably wider skull. 



CRENICICHLA PROTEUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is represented by numerous specimens, which vary 

 in many respects from an average standard, constituting several 

 varieties, one of which may turn out to be a species. The typi- 

 cal or most numerous form may be thus described : — 



Radii D. xix-13; A. iii. 8 or 9. Depth of body from four to 

 four and a half times in length without caudal fin. Head 3 

 times in same, orbit 5 times in head, 1.25 times in muzzle, and 



1 Proceed. Amer. Philos. Soc, 1870, 570. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



1.33 times to 1.6 times in interorbital breadth. Scales 4 — 56-3' 12 



13, seven rows on cheek. Color olivaceous, blackish above; fins 

 dusln-, without markings, except a black ocellus at upper base of 

 caudal fin, with pale margin. A dusky band from end of muzzle 

 to middle of side, and dusky spot below eye. Eye red. Total 

 length .17 m. 



Var. a. — Shorter and stouter, colors paler. 'Eye 1.5 times in 

 interorbital width. Depth of body 3f to 4 times in length less 

 caudal. Scales 4 — 45-8 — 13. Pattern of color similar to the last. 

 Several specimens. 



Var. i3. — More slender; depth 4.66 times in length without 

 caudal fin. Radii xviii-14 ; A. iii-9. Scales 4-55-13. Diameter 

 of orbit equal interorbital space. Coloration as in the t3'pes, ex- 

 cept a large black spot marking the posterior fourth of the spinous 

 dorsal fin. This variety has one less dorsal spine than usual in 

 the tj^pe, but the latter occasionally exhibits but 18. 



Var. y (argijnnis). — Short and stout as in var. a, but the 

 orbit is as wide as the narrowed interorbital space; scales 4-43- 

 13. Radii D. xix. 13; A. iii. 9. The coloration is like that of the 

 type, olive, darker above, with caudal ocellus and dusky band 

 from muzzle to opercular margin. The dorsal fin has, however, a 

 ^broad orange-red band extending along its distal posterior half, 

 the anterior part wider and with three large black spots in the 

 centre ; in a second specimen it contains four black spots. 



The preceding varieties are so connected together as to be in- 

 separable in our S3^stem. The var. /3 accords to some extent with 

 Castelnau's description of his C. lacustris, but our most slender 

 forms are less elongate than this species, where the depth is one- 

 sixth the length. There are neither black dots nor vittfe in the 

 C. proteus. From C. saxatilis, to which it is next allied, it dif- 

 fers in the constantly smaller number of longitudinal scales, which 

 are given by Giinther as j^. 



TJARUS INSIGNIS, Heckel. 



Mesonauta insignis, Giinther, 1. c. iv. 300. 



ITAEUS CENTKARCHOIDES, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form a compressed broad oval. Scales ctenoid T— 29-20 — 14, 

 five series on the cheek ; operculum scaled. Radii D. xv-1 4 ; anal 



* Not counted on lateral line. 

 1872.] 




254 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



viii-12. Caudal fin subtruncate. The middle dorsal spines appear 

 to be longer than the posterior, but the latter with the two ante- 

 rior pointed ra3S have been bitten nearly off, causing a deep and 

 regular emargination of the two fins, so that the normal form is 

 not certain. Pectoral and ventral fins extending to near the eighth 

 anal spine. Teeth in several series in both jaws, those of the ex- 

 ternal C3-lindric considerably^ larger. End of maxillary extending 

 but little behind the line of the posterior nareal opening. Profile 

 steep, concave and flat between the orbits, where its width a little 

 exceeds the diameter of the orbit. Latter one-third of head 

 equal length of muzzle. Depth of body 1.5 times the length 

 without caudal fin. 



Color dusky, with seven vertical blackish bars extending below 

 the basis of the dorsal fin, which break into spots on the bell}^; a 

 cross-bar through eye, and one across base of tail. Soft dorsal 

 with whitish cross-bars, other fins blackish. 



Total length .074 m. ; to line of D. I. .02 m.; to line of A. I. 

 .03; to basis of caudal .055. 



This species is intermediate in characters in some respects be- 

 tween the species referred by Glinther to Uarus, Heckel (" Uaim"), 

 and those referred to llesonauta, Giinther. I fail to perceive any 

 characters on which to establish the latter, and accordingly regard 

 its species as referable to the present genus. 



HEROS BIMACTJLATUS, Linn. 



Acnra Mmactilata, Giintlier, 1. c. 376; A. gro7iotn, punctata et mar-ganta, 

 Heckel fide Giinther. 



This appears to be the only species of the Acaras of Giinther 

 which possesses four anal spines, the remaining species possessing 

 three. Heros, Heckel, is distinguished, according to the same, by 

 the possession of five spines in the anal fin. Out of eighteen speci- 

 mens of the present fish from the Ambyiacu, four possess five spines? 

 the remainder four ; I am therefore disposed to define Acara as 

 having three, and Heros as having four or five anal spines, though 

 it is possible that it will be found necessary to unite the two 

 genera. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



ACARA TETRAMEEUS, Heckel. 

 Giintlier, Catal. iv. 277. 



ACARA SYSPILUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Scales in three series on the cheek, on the body 2-26-1. Radii 

 D. xiv-xv. 9 ; A. iii. 8 ; caudal rounded. Form elongate oval ; 

 depth of body 2.6 times in length without caudal fin, and equal 

 depth of head. Preorbital bone half orbit (in specimen two inches 

 long) ; orbit 2.5 times, head nearlj^ twice interorbital space 

 (doubtless much smaller in larger specimens). Profile convex; 

 muzzle oblique; upper lip longer than mandible. 



Light brown, yellow below. A straight wide black band from 

 the upper posterior margin of the orbit to below the end of the 

 spinous dorsal, composed of three confluent spots; a black bar 

 from eye to angle of preoperculum, and another across the base 

 of the caudal fin. Seven vertical brown cross shades behind the 

 head, on sides. 



ACARA FIAVILABRIS, Cope. 



Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870. 



Scales in two series on cheek; on body 2-24-8. Radii P. xvi. 

 9-10; A. iii. T. Depth 2.25 times, head 2.8 times in length less 

 caudal fin. Eye three times length of preorbital bone, and 2.6 

 times in head in specimen 2.5 inches long, jaws equal. Seventh 

 dorsal spine as long as diameter of orbit or interorbital width. 

 Profile gently convex, inferior outline rising to meet it. 



Olive, with jointed unpaired fins yellow. A large black spot 

 before middle of side on lateral line, a vertical shade at base of 

 caudal. 



As compared with A. dimerus, its closest ally, this fish differs 

 in the fewer anal radii, the lack of cross-bars, etc. It was origi- 

 nally described by me as having three rows of cheek scales ; but 

 those of the interoperculum were included. 



ACARA FRENIFERUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Scales of cheek in two series; of body 2 — 29-8 — 9. Radii D. 

 xvi. 10-11; A. iii. 8. Form elongate oval, the depth entering the 

 length (less caudal) 2.33 times. Front convex, descending, length 

 of head one-third length. Orbit equal muzzle 3.33 times in head, 

 1.5 times in the flat front. Dorsal spines short, twelfth equalling 



1872.] 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



diameter of orbit. Pectoral not reacliing anal; soft annl and 

 dorsal not quite reaching end of caudal ; latter rounded. 



Color rich brown, with a black spot under the middle of the 

 dorsal fin, which is connected with the orbit bj'^ a broad black 

 band. The body is further crossed by five darker shades. Fins 

 dusk3\ Below brown, under lip yellow. 



Total length .117 m. to line of D. i. .021; do. of anal .058. 



Several specimens from the Ambyiacu. This species is, with A. 

 dimerus^ Heckel, and A. fiamlahris^ Cope, the onl}^ one with two 

 series of cheek scales. It difiers from the first named in the much 

 fewer fin radii, etc. 



ACARA COMPEESSTIS, Cope. 



Scales 35, transverse series, seven rows on the cheek. Radii D. 

 xiii-19; A. iii-15. Longest dorsal spine as long as muzzle and 

 half the orbit. Form oval, depth half length less caudal, body 

 compressed. Profile oblique, nearly straight from in front of 

 dorsal fin. Head 2.5 times in length less caudal ; orbit 3.2 times 

 in head, larger than muzzle 1.2 times in interorbital space. Left 

 dorsal and anal prolonged. Outer series of teeth larger. Total 

 length .0*79 m.; to dorsal (axial) .024; to anal (do.) .0395; to 

 caudal fin .0595. 



Color, injured by the alcohol, at present uniform brown, with a 

 black line from the angle of the mouth to that of the preoperculum, 

 and two black shades, one at base and the other at end of caudal 

 fin. Soft dorsal and anal black behind. 



Two specimens from the Ambyiacu. 



HYGROGONUS OCELLATUS, Agass. 

 Spix, Pise. Brasil., tab. 68. 



CLUPEIDiE. 



PELLONA ALTAMAZONICA, Cope, sp. nov. 



I^o teeth on the vomer, a distinct series on the palatine bones ; 

 the whole of the hyoid axis and tongue covered with dentigerous 

 plates. Bi-maxillary and maxillary teeth, the former considerablj'' 

 longer. Scales 23-77. Fin rays D. 18, A. 38-39. Dorsal fin 

 behind the ventral, its origin nearer the basis of the caudal fin 

 than the end of the muzzle, its last ray above the first anal ray. 

 Length of ventral fin equal diameter of orbit. Superior caudal 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



lobe shortei" than inferior. Orbit entering liead (with chin) four 

 times, in muzzle once, nearly double interorbital space. Pectorals 

 reaching beyond basis of veutrals. Cranial ridges forming a 

 closed Y in front. Length of head equal greatest depth of bod}', 

 entering length 3.75 times (excl. caudal fin). 



Total length .186 m ; to basis of anal .093 (axial); do. ventral 

 .061. 



Silver "with golden and green reflections, yellow on side of head, 

 a black epiclavicular spot. 



From the Ambyiacu. The second South American species, 

 which is found at a great distance from salt water. 



OSTEOGLOSSIDJE. 



OSTEOGLOSSUM BICIRRHOSUM, Vand. 

 Three specimens ; in one the anal and caudal fins are united. 



STERNOPYGIDiE, 



This family differs materially from the Gymnotidse^ with which 

 its species have been heretofore arranged. One character is to be 

 seen in the construction of the scapular arch. The coracoid bone 

 is well developed, and connected by the transverse column with 

 the clavicle, as in many other physostomous families. In the 

 Gymnotidse this column is wanting, and the coracoid is rudi- 

 mental. 



STERNOPYGUS MACRURUS, Cuv. 



STERNOPYGUS VIRESCENS, Yalenc. 

 CARAPUS FASCIATTJS, Pallas. 



ERYTHRINIDiE. 



MACRODON TRAHIRA, Bl. Schn. 

 Giinther, Catal. v. 281. 



HOLOTAXIS L.5:TUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form elongate, scales very large, 1. 1. 26, 1. tr. 5. Length head 

 four times depth body, also four times in length without caudal 

 fin. Orbit 3.3 times in length of head. Chin very prominent ; 

 maxillary teeth as large as the premaxillaries. Dorsal fin distant 

 from muzzle 1.5 times distance from caudal. Radii D. I. 9 ; A. 

 1872.] 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



10 ; Y. 8. Pectoral reaching ventrals, ventrals iilamentous, reach- 

 ing anal, commencing in front of dorsal. Dorsal with median 

 rays, and caudal with longest rays filamentous. 



Color, scales orange at base, with broad blackish margins form- 

 ing rows of spots ; dorsal fin with a black spot at middle and a 

 large black saddle below and in front of it on the back ; mandi- 

 ble black-edged ; fins orange-red. Total length .0755 m. ; to 

 dorsal fin .0335 ; to ventrals .027 ; to anal .0416. 



This is the second species of this genus, which was character- 

 ized by the writer. Proceedings Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, p. 563. It 

 differs from the type H. melanostomus, in the larger scales, there 

 being 5 in tliis, 7 in that, in a cross series. 



CHARACINIDiE. 



C1JRIMAT1JS CYPRINOIDES, Linn. 

 Syst. Naturae ; Gunther, Cat. B. M. v. 290. 



CURIMATUS EUTILOIDES, Kner. 

 Denkschr. Wien. Acad., 1859,141. Giinth. v. 290. 

 Both these species quite abundant. 



PROCHILODUS INSIGNIS, Kner. 



Denkschr. Wien. Acad., 1859, 147. Giinth. v. 296. 



D. 11, A. 10. L. 1. 44, 1. tr. 22. Depth 2.5 times in length ; 

 head three times. Silver-leaden above ; caudal with two black 

 cross-bands forming chevrons with the angle directed distally. 

 Dorsal with three, anal with two dark bauds. A single small spe- 

 cimen. 



ANOSTOMUS FASCIATUS, Spix. 



Pise. Braz. t. 36. Giinth., Cat. B. M. v. 304. 



L.a:MOLYTA, Cope, gen. nov. 



Allied to Schizodon (Anostomus) in all respects, i. e. with mova- 

 ble flat incisor teeth in the jaws, but differing in having the 

 branchiostegal membranes entirely free from the isthmus. They 

 are united to each other onl}^, and the connecting membrane 

 bridges the isthmus throughout its length. In the onlj' species 

 known to me the inferior teeth are truncate with entire margin, 

 or incisor-like ; the superior are crenate. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 259 



L^MOLYTA T^NIATA, Kner. 



Schizoclon tfeniatns, Kner. Denkschr. Ac. Wien, 1859, 159. Gthr., v. 

 304. 



LEPORINTIS MEGALEPIS, Giinth., var. 

 Catal. B. M. v. 307. 



Three adult specimens, two with deeper, one with shallower 

 body. First, scales 4|-35-4 ; head 3.5 times, depth three times in 

 length. Second, scales 5-37-5; head 3.75, depth three times in 

 length. Third, scales 5-38-5; head 3.75, depth 3.6 times in 

 length. All with anal rays 10, and a minute anterior spine. Ten 

 dark dorsal cross-bands besides the three lateral spots ; the ap- 

 propriate bands descending between the spots. The young are 

 very strongly and handsomely cross-banded. 



CHARACIDITJM ETHEOSTOMA, Cope, sp. nov. 



The discovery of this little fish is interesting as extending the 

 range of this genus over the whole of Brazil, it having been known 

 heretofore from the neighborhood of Lagoa Santa, from a tribu- 

 tary of the coast river, the Bio das Yelhas. Prof. Beinhardt, 

 who discovered it, called the species from that locality Ch. fas- 

 ciatum} The nares are separated, the anal fin short, the teeth 

 are sim^Tle, acute, and fixed in a single series in each jaw ; none 

 on the maxillary. Lateral line complete. 



The species here described has much the coloration of the 

 Poecilichthys or Etheostoma of our North American sti*eams. 



Depth into length 5.25 times ; head 5.75 times in same. Bran- 

 chiostegal membranes fissured far forwards. Dorsal fin commencinsr 

 in front of ventrals B. 11 ; A. 8 ; Y. 9 ; P. 11, reaching A^entrals, 

 ventrals reaching anal, caudal deeplj' forked. Scales 1. 1. 33, 1. tr 

 8 ; striate. Orbit equal muzzle 3.6 times in head, equal inter- 

 orbital width, and length of muzzle ; profile nearly straight, lips 

 about equal ; maxillary bone to orbit. 



In spirits yellowish, probably Iw aline in life, with a black lateral 

 band from end of muzzle, and nine quadrate brown dorsal spots 

 from nape to tail. There is more or less connection between the 

 spots and band, and shades across the under side opposite to 

 these. Fins uuicolor, light. Sides of head silver, end of chin, 



' See K. Dansk. V. Selsk. Forli., 1866, 55, Tab. II. f. 1. 

 1872.] 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and a vertical bar at base of caudal fin black. Total lensfth 

 •048 m.; to dorsal .0115; to anal .03; to basis caudal .039. The 

 opercle of one of the specimens is white and smooth, of another 

 punctate-rugose and yellow. 



IGUANODECTES, Cope, gen. nov. 



Dorsal fin oria:inatino; in advance of ventrals, anal elonsrate. 

 Branchiostegal membranes united across, but not with, isthmus. 

 Teeth in two series in the premaxillary, none in the maxillary, and 

 one row in the mandible. They are fixed, but have contracted 

 fangs, and broad, flat, subequally denticulate crowns, and those of 

 the mandible stand out from the dentary bones all round. Teeth 

 of the outer row very few, minute. Caudal fin furcate. 



This genus is allied to Tetragonox)terus^ but the dentition is 

 much weaker, approaching that of the Schizodon ; the union of 

 the branchiostegal membranes is seen in Lsemohjta m. In the only 

 species there are but two minute teeth of the outer premaxillary 

 row. The other teeth are fan-shaped and smooth, and in contact, 

 so as to form an uninterrupted series. In" Tetragonopterus the 

 fangs are strong, not contracted, and the crowns are ridged. 



IGUANODECTES TENUIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Slender, the depth entering the length (without caudal) 5.5 

 times, length of head 4.33 times in the same. Radii D. 12 ; A. 36; 

 V. 9, P. 13. Pectoral reaching ventral and ventral anal. Orbit 

 3.2 times in head, equal interorbital width, less than length of 

 muzzle. L. tr. al. A. i. 11-12. Caudal furcate. Distance from 

 base dorsal to base caudal equal from former to pupil of e^-e. 

 Color pale, a silver band along side ; base of caudal blackish. 

 Total length .059 m. ; to basis dorsal .021 ; to basis anal .0275. 



APHYOCHAKAX PUSILLUS, Gthr. 

 Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1868, 245. 

 Fins bright red in life. 



TETRAGONOPTERUS CHALCEUS, Artedi. 

 Agass. Cuv. Val., Gthr. Catal. v. 320. 



TETRAGONOPTERUS BARTLETTII, Gthr. 

 Am. Magaz. Nat. Hist., 1866, 30. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



TETRAGONOPTERUS PHCENICOPTERTJS, Cope. 



D. 10 ; A. 26-T ; ventrals originating in front of dorsal, not 

 reaching anal ; pectoral reaching ventral. Scales 5^-35-4. Depth 

 of body 3.3 times in length without caudal ; length of head 4.2 

 times. Orbit 2.5 times in head, equal the plane interorbital space. 



Silvery, with lateral silver band and indistinct scapular and 

 basal caudal blackish spots. Anal and dorsal fins vermilion; 

 caudal with a triangular vermilion spot which surrounds the 

 basal black spot, and whose apex reaches the caudal emargina- 

 tion. 



Length .053 m.; to dorsal .021; to anal .0245. 



Apparentl}^ very abundant. It is allied to the T. carolinse of 

 Dr. Gill (Proc. Ac. Xat. ScL, Phila.), 1870, p. 92, but is a more 

 slender fish with smaller head. 



STETHAPRION CHRYSETJM, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form elevated, disciform ; scales small, 19-67-16. Eadii D. 

 12 ; A. 37 ; V. 8, very small, not reaching anal, and commencing 

 below dorsal. Pectoral falcate reaching nearly to line of end of 

 ventrals. Base of anal fin covered with scales, especially ante- 

 riorly ; dorsal with a long decurved spine in front of it. Caudal 

 peduncle contracted. Depth into length less caudal fin, 1.66 

 times, length of head 3.4 times. Orbit 2.4 times in head, much 

 larger than muzzle's length, 1.1 times in interorbital width. Pro- 

 file of head very concave. Dorsal fin elevated, caudal deeply bi- 

 furcate. Lateral line a little decurved medially. 



Color silvery, a leaden shade from postscapular region to caudal 

 fin, darkest in front at a postscapular spot. Below this band, 

 yellow. Fins unspotted. Total length .071 m. ; to dorsal fin (ob- 

 lique) .03 ; to caudal (straight) .053 ; to ventrals (oblique) .032 m. 



This species is near the type S. erythrops, Cope (Proc. Am. 

 Phil. Soc, 1870, p. 562, fig. 5), but has larger scales and a different 

 coloration. The genus Stethaprion has the physiognomy of 3Iij- 

 letes, but is essentially near to Tetragonopterus. It differs from 

 the latter chiefly in the decurved spine in front of the dorsal fin, 

 a character it shares with Serrasalmo. 



BRYCON CAPITO, Cope, sp. nov. 

 Scales small, L. 1. 56, 1. tr. 25. Depth of body one-fourth, 

 length of head one-third of total without caudal. Radii D. 10 ; 

 1872.] PART HI.— 18 




262 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 







A. 25 ; V. T (8?). Dorsal originating a little behind line of ven- 

 tral, pectoral reaching ventral. Orbit 2.66 times in head, equal 

 interorbital -width. Middle series of premaxillary teeth continued 

 outwards as far as the exterior. Posterior pair of mandibular 

 teeth very small. Color leaden, head silvery, a scapular and 

 large basal caudal black spot. 



Total length .06 m., to dorsal fin .0275, to anal .034. 



CHALCETJS MACROLEPIDOTTJS, Cuvier. 

 Cuv. Val. xxii. 240. Gunther, Cat. B. M. v. 333. 

 Two teeth only in posterior mandibular series. 



CHALCETJS EEYTHETJETJS, Cope. 

 Pletliodectes erythrurus, Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, p. 563, fig. 6. 



This species belongs to Chalceus, but differs from the type in 

 having scales of equal size. Gunther says of this genus in his 

 analytical key, " anal fin more or less elongate," as distinguished 

 from " anal short" of Piahucina^ yet C. maci^olepiclotus has as 

 many anal radii as P. erythrino'ides. Creagrutiis, with a fin of 

 about the same length, is placed in the " elongate" anal division. 



MEGALOBRYCON MELANOPTERTJM, Cope, sp. nov. 



Rather stout; dorsal outline arched. Length of head three and 

 three-fifths times in total lacking caudal fin, depth three times in 

 same. Orbit large, equal muzzle, 3.5 times in head. Radii D. 11 ; 

 A. 25; Y. 8, commencing opposite the third or fourth dorsal ray. 

 Pectoral just reaching ventral. Scales 1.1. 67, exposed surface 

 striate. Interorbital width 1.6 times diameter of orbit, gently 

 convex, less than postorbital length of head. Premaxillary teeth 

 in three series, the outer small, not in contact, equal to the maxil- 

 laries, and simple or with a minute cusp on each side; ten in 

 number on each bone. The posterior series is uninterrupted from 

 side to side, iucludiug six teeth on each side ; the median row 

 forms an open ^, the angles forwards. Caudal fin deeply forked. 



Total length seven inches, = m. .176; length to dorsal fin .071 m. 

 (straight) ; to anal .10 m. Color silvery, with a black band which 

 commences between the ventral fins, on each side of the base of 

 the anal, across the caudal peduncle, and along the middle of the 

 upper lobe of the caudal fin to its end; anal black at base, other 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



fins white. A black scapular spot, and a crimson spot at the apex 

 of each operculum. Opercular bones with purple reflections. 

 The Ambyiacu. 



This genus was proposed by Giinther, in 1869 (Proc. Zool. Soc, 

 p. 424), on the type species, 31. cephalus. This fish is evidently 

 nearly allied to the species here described, but is different from 

 them in the larger size of the external series of premaxillary 

 teeth, since they are, according to Giinther, double the size of 

 the maxillaries, nearly in contact, and apparently more denticu- 

 late. It is about as stout as the present fish, but the arrange- 

 ment of the posterior series of teeth is similar to the 31. erythrop- 

 terus. I have two specimens of the 31. melanopterus, and they 

 agree in every detail. 



MEGALOBKYCON ERYTHROPTERUM, Cope, sp. nov. 



More elongate; length of head equal depth, and one-fourth the 

 length without caudal. Orbit large, 3.5 times in head, 1.8 times 

 in interorbital width. Radii D. 11; A. 23; Y. 8, commencing op- 

 posite a point equal to five radii in front of the dorsal fin. Pec- 

 torals 12, not reaching ventrals. Squamation injured, lateral line 

 estimated 70. Teeth similar to the last, except that there are 

 twelve pi'emaxillaries on each side, and that those of the posterior 

 row at each end, instead of being continuous with the larger me- 

 dian teeth of that row, are continuous with the lateral limbs of 

 the median M -shaped row, as in 31. cephalus. 



Total length If inches, = .19 m., to dorsal fin .086 m., to anal 

 .115. Color pale and uniform, witli a black scapular and large 

 basal caudal spot, which is prolonged as a band to the margin of 

 the fin. Rest of caudal and all the other fins, except base of dorsal, 

 crimson. Sides of head with pearly purple reflections. 



Though the characters separating these species are few, they 

 are important. They are found in the form of body, position of 

 dorsal fin, anal radii, color, and dentition. 



From the Ambyiacu. 



TRIPORTHEUS, Cope, gen. nov. ' 



Dorsal short, anal elongate. Teeth in three series on the pre- 

 maxillary bone, denticulate, in two rows on the mandible, the 

 posterior of the latter consisting of two convex median teeth. 

 Pectoral region compressed and keel-shaped on account of the 

 18t2.j 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



development of the coracoid bones ; abdomen compressed. Dorsal 

 fin behind the line of the ventrals. 



This genns has a considerable resemblance to Chalcinus, and 

 is intermediate between it and Ghalcinopsis, Kner. The former 

 has two series of premaxillary teeth, the latter four; the present 

 possesses three. The Ghalcinopais alhurnus^ Gthr., probably be- 

 longs to Triportheus. 



TRIPOETHEUS ALBUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Teeth of the premaxillary closely packed, many denticulate ; 

 chin projecting beyond muzzle when the mouth is closed. Radii 

 D. 11; A. 21 ; ventrals longer, extending to beyond the last ray 

 of the dorsal. Pectorals falcate, not quite reaching end of ven- 

 trals. Caudal deeply emarginate. Scales large 1. 1. 28, five series 

 above the lateral line. Head 3.5 times in lenjjth without caudal: 

 orbit large, exceeding interorbital width a little, and three times 

 in length of head (including chin). 



Color dark ashen above, sides and below silver-white; a dark 

 spot at basis of caudal fin. Total length m. .061; length to 

 basis of dorsal fin .0292; from D. I. to basis caudal .02. The 

 dorsal outline of this species is regularly arched. 



From the Ambyiacu. 



TRIPORTHEUS FLAVUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Premaxillary teeth spaced, the anterior series in contact only 

 exteriorly. When the mouth is closed the chin projects but little, 

 and the profile of the head descends obliquely from that of the 

 back. Latter gently arched. Radii D. 11; C. 20; A. 30; Y.^-, 

 P. 11. Yentrals short, scarcely reaching the line of the last 

 dorsal ray, pectorals sometimes attaining that point. Caudal sub- 

 truncate. Head one-fourth length without caudal, eye 3.25 times 

 in head, equal interorbital space .75 times in muzzle. Depth at 

 ventral fin three times in length. Scales at ventral 6-34-5-3. 



Total length 6.25 inches, = .15*7 m. Length to D. I. .08, to anal 

 .093; to caudal .132; depth at pectoral .044. Color brownish- 

 yellow, with golden reflections; four shaded lines above on the 

 middles of the scale series ; above with steel-blue reflections ; a 

 black band through the middle of the caudal. 



Numerous specimens. In a young one of three inches the 

 caudal fin is deeply furcate, as in C. alhus ; perhaps in larger speci- 

 mens of the latter the tail is also subequal. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



CHALCINTIS CTJITEK, Cope, sp. nov. 



An elongate species, Avitli very posterior dorsal fin. Height at 

 pectoral fin 4.33 times, at ventral five times, in length without 

 caudal fin. Head 3.75 times in the same; orbit 3.8 in head and 

 1.2 in interorbital space. Head above flat in one plane from end 

 of muzzle to dorsal fin. Teeth small tricuspid, those of exterior 

 row not in contact with each other. Dorsal fin short, its last ray 

 opposite first anal; distance from base of caudal a little more 

 than half distance from end of muzzle. Pectorals falcate, reach- 

 ing nearly to line of dorsal. Radii D. 11 ; C. 19; A. 33 ; Y. 8 ; P. 

 11. The inferior caudal raj-s are shorter than the median and 

 superior; ventrals reach to line of dorsal. The operculum is 

 nearly as long as high. Scales 7-40-3. 



Color pale golden ; head silver, the upper part of the operculum 

 with steel-blue reflections, bounded by a groove. A round black 

 spot on base of median caudal rays. 



Total length .158 m.; length to dorsal fin .087, to anal .098. 



This species is nearest the C. nematurus, Kner, but difiers from 

 it in many important respects. 



GASTEROPELECUS STELLATTJS, Kner. 



Denksclir. Ac. Wiss. Wien., 1860, 17 Tab. I. f. 3; Giinther, Catal. B. M. 

 V. 343. 



EffiBOIDES MYERSII, Gill. 



Proc. Ac. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1870, p. 93. 



D. 11, A. 52; scales 22-83-22. Head 3.4 times in length. Prof. 

 Grill does not give the number of scales in his description, and 

 our fishes difler from his in the less depth, which enters the length 

 2.7 times instead of 2.5, and the larger eye, which enters the head 

 three times instead of 3.5 times. 



RCEBOIDES RUBRIVERTEX, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. ii., its anterior rays 1.2 times as long as the head; 

 A. 51. Depth 2.66 times in length, length of head four times in 

 same. Scales 27-88-19. Ventral fin reaching anal, pectoral not 

 reaching end of ventral. Length from dorsal to near end of adi- 

 pose equal from same to end of muzzle (much less in R. myersii). 

 Profile gently concave above, dorsal line very convex ; top and 

 sides of head rugose. Exterior teeth 3 above, 4 below ; mandi- 

 1872.] 




2G6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



bulars in one row, with fonr canines. Two rows of premaxillaries, 

 tlie posterior wanting medially. In R. myey^sii the middle row of 

 teeth is so curved as to be continuous with the posterior series. 



Scapular and caudal spots indistinct ; general color pink. Top 

 of head, maxillary bone, and opercula crimson ; fins immaculate. 

 Total length .135 m. ; length to anal .059 ; to adipose dorsal .098; 

 to first dorsal .057. This is a larger fish with a smaller head 

 than the R. myersii. It may possibly prove to be the R. affinis, 

 Giinth., Pr. Z. S., Lond., 1868, 246, but he describes " anal rays 

 55, scales 1. 1. 80," and the dorsal fin appears to be more jDOsterior. 



ANACYRTUS SANGUINEUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



A stout species with large scales. Sc. 12-54-12 ; radii, D. 9 ; 

 A. 43; Y. 8, reaching anal ; P. 16, to middle of ventrals. Back 

 much elevated, dorsal commencing in front of anal (A. i. op- 

 posite D. 4), and nearer end of muzzle than basis of caudal by a 

 little. Caudal deeply forked. Depth 2.6 times in length (caudal), 

 and length of head 3.4 times in the same. Ej^e four times in 

 length of head in adults, equal interorbital width. Operculum 

 and orbital bones rugose. 



Premaxillary teeth in two very distinct series, a canine at the 

 inner, and one at the outer extremity of the bone. Maxillary 

 toothed to the end, which is behind the line of the posterior 

 margin of the orbit. Mandibular teeth with two (or three on one 

 side of one) canines on each side. 



Color pale, with a large black spot on the line from the front of 

 the dorsal fin ; a large black spot at base of caudal fin, from 

 which a faint line extends towards the former spot. Sides of 

 head with purple reflections. Dorsal, adipose, candal, and anal 

 fins vermilion, the anal with a black border. Total length .133 m. ; 

 to basis dorsal .0626 ; to basis ventral .045 ; to adipose .10 ; to 

 basis caudal fin .115. 



This brilliantly colored fish is nearest the A. tectifer, Cope 

 (Proc. Am. Philos. Soc, 1870, 565), and A. ];)auci7^adiatus^ Gthr. 

 (Catal. B. M. v. 346). It is less elongate than the former, and 

 has a more concave profile; the anal rays are more numerous. 

 From the latter species it is well distinguished by its well-defined 

 exterior premaxillary series of eight teeth, and the more anterior 

 position of the dorsal fin. 



Numerous specimens from the Ambyiacu. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



XIPHOSTOMA TMBO, Cope, sp. nov. 



D. 10, A. 10 ; sca,Jes of lateral line 15. Last dorsal ra}^ above 

 the fifth anal. Head (without membranous flap) three times in 

 length to basis of caudal ; eye 7.6 times in length of head, of 

 which four times enter muzzle (without flap) ; flap equal one 

 diameter of eye; interorbital space flat, 1.75 times diameter of 

 orbit. Muzzle flat above, decurved, receiving the mandibular 

 teeth within it, striate rugose. Teeth minute, equal. A rudi- 

 mental dermal flap on mandible. Pectoral fins reaching less than 

 .3 distance to ventrals ; rays 15 ; Y. 8 ; extending half-way to 

 anal. Caudal emarginate. Depth of body at ventrals 7.75 times 

 in length without caudal. 



Color light brown above, below white ; two series of small 

 brown spots on each side, above. Top of head rosy; dermal flap 

 of muzzle vermilion, black-edged. Opercula golden, suborbital 

 bone with purple reflections. Dorsal fin yellowish, with two brown 

 cross-bands ; anal with a median black spot. Caudal fin with 

 middle and tips black, margin and space between, with raj's, 

 white. 



Total length .203; to orbit .036; to ventral .112; to dorsal 

 .1382 ; to anal .1432 ; to caudal fin .178. 



Two specimens from the Ambyiacu. 



MYLETES ALBISCOPTIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



DiscoidaljWith small head ; anal rays long, the fin half covered 

 with scales. Radii D. 17 ; A. 36 ; Y. 7. Caudal fin subtruncate. 

 Scales small, 41-100-45. Forty-seven spines in front of the anal 

 fin. Profile scarcely concave, orbit 3.5 times in head, a little less 

 than half the superficial width of the very convex interorbital 

 space. Length of head 3.75 times in total, lacking caudal ; deptk 

 1.4 times in same. Anterior teeth separated from posterior. 

 Pectoral fin to ventral, ventral commencing under dorsal. First 

 ra}"- small, not reaching vent. Length .16 m. ; to line of dorsal 

 (axial) .065 ; to line of anal (axial) .09 ; to caudal .125. 



Color silvery, with blue reflections above, and golden below. A 

 black spot on posterior edge of operculum; otherwise immaculate. 



Numerous specimens from the Amb^'iacu. Two from the Per- 

 kins collection lack the opercular spot. 



1872.J 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



MYLETES OCULUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Premaxillary series of teeth in contact. Radii D. 15 ; A. 24 ; 

 Y. T, reaching the vent, and commencing below the first dorsal 

 ray. Pectorals reaching base of ventrals. Preanal spines 43. 

 Form stout ovate, dorsal and ventral curvatures equal. Depth 

 1.Y5 times in length without caudal ; length of head 2.5 times in 

 same; caudal fin bifurcate. Orbit 3.3 times in length of head 

 (of an individual .065 m. long), 1.15 times in the rather flat inter- 

 orbital space. Profile concave, operculum rugose. Depth of above 

 individual .0215 m. ; length to dorsal fin .03 ; to anal .031. 



Color dark plumbeous, with a black spot with a wide white 

 bordering ring just above the lateral line below the anterior part 

 of the dorsal fin. Many specimens with vertical dark shades or 

 fasciae. Anal fin blood-red, black at base. 



This species is well distinguished by its stout head and jaws, 

 and especially the ocellus on the side. The details do not agree 

 with those of any described species. 



MYLETES HERNIARIUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form subquadrangular or broad diamond-shaped from the 

 angular elevation of the back, and the abrupt prominence of the 

 abdomen. The thoracic outline is concave below the pectoral 

 fins. Radii D. 18; A. 32; ventrals reaching vent, not attained 

 by the small pectorals. Abdominal spines of unusual length, 

 spine-shaped, 46 in number. Depth 1.4 times in length without 

 caudal fin ; length of head three times in same. Orbit (in indi- 

 vidual of .05 m. in length) 2.6 times in head, less than the slightly 

 convex interorbital space. Profile concave ; chin and muzzle pro- 

 jecting. Plumbeous above, silver below ; a very few small dusky 

 dots ; anal fin blackish. 



Length to dorsal fin (of above individual) .022 ; to anal .027 ; 

 depth head at preopercular angle .01 m. 



The very prominent abdominal saw, and spine-like form of its 

 teeth, distinguish this species. Two specimens. 



SERRASALMO IRIDOPSIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



D. 15-6; A. 34; abdominal spines prominent, forty-one. Depth 

 of body one-half length without caudal fin; length head a little 

 greater than one-third the same. Orbit 3.8 in head, a little less 



[January 16 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



than interorbital space. Yeutral fin originating opposite front of 

 dorsal ; not reacliing vent ; pectoral reaching ventral. Bones of 

 head striate. Caudal fin openly emarginate. Color pale fawn- 

 color above, below silvery; four longitudinal series of round 

 black spots above lateral line ; several scattered spots below it. 

 Opercular apparatus brilliantly colored ; upper part of preoper- 

 culum and orbital bones green ; middle golden, lower part purple 

 and violet. Operculum purple above, vermilion below; interoper- 

 culum vermilion; anal fin the same; caudal brown, edged with 

 pale yellow centre. 



Total length .104 m.; to dorsal .0535 ; to ventral .0475; to anal 

 .0615; to caudal .084. 



This brilliant species is especially peculiar in the number of its 

 abdomino-thoracic dentations. 



From the Ambyiacu. 



SERKASALMO ^SOPTJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. 16; A. 32; Y. 7; pectoral falcate reaching basis of 

 ventral. Form short, deep, dorsal curve greater than abdominal. 

 Depth 1.66 times in length without caudal, length of head three 

 times in the same. Scales 47-83-36; ventral spines 31.. Muzzle 

 very short, onl}' half as long as diameter of bony orbit, which is 

 contained four times in the length of the head, and twice in the in- 

 terorbital space. Latter convex transversely. Lateral line slightly 

 decurved in the middle. Dorsal fin nearer the base of the caudal 

 (first fulcrum) than the end of the muzzle, by the length of the 

 latter and half the diameter of the orbit. 



Color bright yellow, unspotted, except a shade behind the epi- 

 clavicle. Caudal fin with a yellow margin and black band within 

 it ; anal fin with a dark margin. 



Total length .147 m. ; to dorsal fin .075; to ventral .065; to 

 anal .088; depth at orbit .028; at first anal ray .073. 



From the Marailon between the mouth of the Rio N'egro, Brazil, 

 and the Huallaga, Peru. Robert Perkins. 



SILURID^. 



PSEUDORHAMDIA PISCTARIX, Cope. 



Proceed. Am. Philos. Soc, 1870, 5G9. 



This species presents slight difierences in the size of the orbits 

 and relative slenderness of the body, not dependent on age. 

 1872.] 




^ 



2T0 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



PIMELODTJS LATERISTRIGA, Miill. Troscli. 



Gunth., Catal. v. 118. 



Differs somewhat from Giinther's description, i.e.^ in the longer 

 beards and one soft ra}'' less in dorsal and anal fin. Radii D. I. 

 6, A. 11, Y. 6. Maxillary barbels reaching to three-fourths the 

 length of the adipose fin ; exterior mentals to end of pectorals. 



DOKAS GRYPUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Lateral shields twenty-eight, short vertically, and furnished 

 with a single strong reverted spine. Tail shielded above and be- 

 low from opposite the twenty-first. Head broad, flat above, with 

 a short concavity in the position of the fontanelle. Casque broad, 

 obtusely roof-shaped, sending a process back on each side the 

 dorsal fin. Body slender. Pectoral spines very powerful, reach- 

 ing to beyond dorsal fin (in two specimens), with strong serra- 

 tions. Dorsal spine strong, longitudinally striate, not serrate. 

 Postclavicular process long and strong, reaching as far as the 

 process of the casque, with an external row of teeth, which are 

 proximally in a groove. Humeral process of coracoid swollen 

 laterally, striate grooved. Top of head rugose. Diameter of 

 63^6 five times in head (to edge bony operculum), twice in interor- 

 bital space, once in muzzle. Preorbital bone with an obtuse vei-- 

 tical rido;e. Length of head 3.66 times in length to basis caudal 

 fin, greatest depth 4.2 in same. Radii D. I. 6; C. forked, 15; A. 

 12; Y. reaching to anal 8; P. I. 6. Postcoracoid processes short, 

 smooth, maxillary barbels to middle of pectoral spine. 



Color above black, belovv light brown black-dusted, gular region 

 yellowish. A yellow band on side, margined below by three broad 

 longitudinal black bars. Caudal fin black, yellow medially, anal 

 and dorsal fins black in front, yellow posteriorly ; ventrals yellow, 

 with two black cross spots. 



Total length 5 inches, = 0.1264 m.; width at humeral swellings 

 .036 m. 



This species exceeds many others in the relative size of the 

 spines and casque. 



DORAS BRACHIATUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



A rather large species, of slender form, with smooth front, and 

 very large pectoral spines. Lateral scuta forty, low, flat, and 

 wide, with a flat reverted spine on the middle, the posterior edge 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2Y1 



with three or four serrations near the extremity; three opposite 

 the dorsal fin much elevated, two in front of them small, spine- 

 less. Radii D. I. 6; C. + It + ; A. 11 ; Y. t ; P. I. 8. Dorsal 

 spine very strong compressed, with teeth pointing downwards 

 behind and upwards before ; its length one-half length of fish an- 

 terior to it. Pectoral spine flat, striate, with strong teeth on 

 both faces, the posterior the longer. Eye looking partly upwards, 

 covered with rather thick cornea 8.5 times in length to bony oper- 

 cular margin, a little less than half interorbital width. Muzzle 

 flattened and narrowed, the maxillary beards leading to the mid- 

 dle of the humeral process, the mental beards half as long. 

 Rugosity of the casque striate, bifurcating at the fontanelle, and 

 sending an angle to the front of each orbit, and then ceasing. A 

 weak serration of the small preorbital bone visible. Head flat 

 between the orbits, the casque steeply roof-shaped, contracting 

 and then expanding downwards opposite the dorsal spine, but 

 not exceeding it. Humeral spine extending to opposite dorsal ; 

 flat, striate ; postcoracoid short, covered with smooth skin. Ven- 

 tral fin commencing some distance behind last dorsal ray, obtuse, 

 not reaching vent, but reached by the pectoral spine. Caudal 

 peduncle short; caudal fin deeply furcate. Adipose fin well de- 

 veloped, but low. Teeth numerous, brush-like. 



Total length .382 m. Length to eye .031; to dorsal spine .12 ; 

 to ventral fin .165; to anal fin .222; to basis of caudal fin .31. 

 Width at humeral swellings .OtT ; height at basis D. I. .095. 



Colors bright ; above brownish, sides pink, below white. Fins 

 red, except pectoral and dorsal, which are paler. 



This marked species is very different in general physiognomy 

 and details from such short, rough, black species as D.pectinifrons 

 and D. grypus, being elongate in form, and smooth, though well 

 armed. Discovered by Robert Perkins between the mouth of the 

 Rio Negro and the Huallaga, in the Maraiiou. 



ZATHORAX, Cope, gen. nov. 

 Proc. Acad. N. Sci. Phila., 1871, p. 113. 



Branchial fissure much contracted. Lateral shields not meet- 

 ing on the middle line of the back. No adipose fin? dorsal and 

 anal fins short. Spines and postclavicular process strong. Yen- 

 trals behind dorsal. Scapular arch dilated below and covered 

 with a dermo-ossification. 

 1872.] 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



This genus is Doras with tlie expanded dermo-ossified sternal 

 shield of the following genus Physopyxis. It forms a group con- 

 necting the two, and differing from the latter in not having the 

 lateral scuta meeting on the dorsal line. In one specimen there 

 is no adipose fin, in a larger there is a rudiment. As in Doras, the 

 postclavicular process is more extensively developed than the 

 postcoracoid, while in Physopyxis the latter is developed at the 

 expense of the former. The Zathorax monitor constitutes speci- 

 fically a linlv between such Dorades as D. grypus and the Physo- 

 pyxis lyra, in being of stouter form than the former, but less squat 

 and toad-like than the latter. It has the comb-like preorbitals of 

 the latter. 



Only one species is known. 



ZATHORAX MONITOR, Cope, sp. nov. 



Twenty-five short lateral scuta, each with one strong recurved 

 median spine. Casque broad, furcate to receive the dorsal fin, 

 obtusely roof-shaped to between the orbits, where it is a little 

 concave, weakly rugulose and striate. Preorbital bones with 12 

 processes above, not dentate on the lower margin. Muzzle broad, 

 short, lips even, mouth reaching to opposite front of preorbital. 

 Beards on the chin normal. Maxillary barbel reaching to poste- 

 rior margin of orbit, but possibly further in a harder specimen. 

 Orbit 3.15 times in head, 1.66 in interorbital width; head 3.75 

 times in length without caudal, twice to third lateral scutum. 

 Greatest depth (at dorsal spine) 3.5 in length. Postclavicular 

 spine extending to line of posterior process of casque, furnished 

 with a row of distant strong teeth on the outer edge. Humeral 

 swelling enlarged laterally, giving unusual width to this region. 

 Postclavicular spine short, acute, sternal shield transversely 

 striate, twice as wide as the gular region in front of it. 



Radii D. I. 6, the spine trigonal, straight, not serrate before or 

 behind, but striate; C. ?14; A. 12. P. I. 6, the spines large, 

 reaching beyond end of ventrals, with numerous close-set teeth 

 or spines on both edges, and a terminal one; surface striate. 



Total length .038 m., width at shoulders .013 m., at canthus oris 

 .0053. Length dorsal spine .008, of head and casque .016. The 

 larger specimen is .052 in length. 



Color destroyed by the action of the spirits; pale brown, the 

 pectoral spines dark-spotted. 



[January'' 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



PHYSOPYXIS, Cope. 

 Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1871, 113. Genus novum doradi affine. 



Dorsal fin with strong pungent spine, in advance of the ventrals. 

 Gill openings much reduced, opercular apparatus attached to 

 clavicular arch below. No adipose dorsal; anal fin short; vent 

 median ; nares close together, the posterior minute. Barbels well 

 developed, one maxillary and two mental on each side. Mouth 

 terminal, teeth minute in several series. 



Sides and dorsal part of the body entirely inclosed by vertical 

 osseous shields. Head and thoracic region inclosed in a trihedral 

 osseous box, composed of the expanded cephalic casque above, 

 clavicular arch laterally, and the immense development of the 

 clavicles and coracoids inferiorly. These form a shield, which 

 extends to beneath the eyes anteriorly, and sends two postcora- 

 coidea posteriorly, all entirely involving the derm. Pectoral 

 spines and swim-bladder greatly developed. 



This strange genus carries to its highest extreme the peculiar 

 features of Doi^as. Thus the branchial fissures are still more re- 

 duced, the operculum being attached all along its inferior margin; 

 the lateral osseous dermal scuta are prolonged upwards to the 

 median dorsal line; the pectoral spines are immensely developed. 

 It differs further from Doras in the greater development of the 

 inferior elements of the scapular arch and the entire occupation 

 of the skin by the ossification. The swim-bladder is large, and 

 extends to the skin on each side of the casque and above the 

 humeral processes, and between the long postcoracoid processes 

 on the inferior surface. The osseous box inclosing the anterior 

 half of the body protects this swim-bladder, but the teleologist 

 will suggest that perhaps, on the other hand, the large swim- 

 bladder is necessary to float the heavy shields and defensive 

 spines. 



The small body and immense casque give this form a very pe- 

 culiar appearance, and suggest a miniature iron-clad with mast 

 and outriggers. 



PHYSOPYXIS LYEA, Cope, sp. nov. 



Muzzle short and broadly truncate, about as long as the dia- 

 meter of the eye, lips even. Interorbital region concave, thrice 

 as wide as the diameter of the orbit, with an oval median fonta- 



1872.] 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



uelle. Orbit 4.2 times in length to opercular margin. The casque 

 rises from the orbits to the dorsal spine. It is keeled obtusel}*, 

 or roof-shaped, extends on the sides nearly to the lateral line, and 

 is prolonged into a point on each side of and behind the last ray 

 of the dorsal fin. The humeral portion of the clavicle is much 

 enlarged and dilated horizontally, and is produced into a post- 

 humeral (postclavicular) spine which extends to below the dor- 

 sal spine, is sharp-edged, striate, and not serrate. 



The inferior aspect of the scapular arch is a transverse shield, 

 convex in front, concave behind, and gently concave inferiorly, 

 two-thirds of its width being composed of the coracoids ; the sur- 

 face punctate. The postcoracoid processes are very long, ex- 

 tending to bej'ond the bases of the ventral fins ; they are curved, 

 and the extremities dilated outwards, so as to present with the 

 thoracic portion exactly the form of the Grecian Ij're. The huge 

 prickly pectoral spines curving round on each side, and meeting 

 behind the ventral fins, suggest the wreath which often accompa- 

 nies the lyre. The surface of the postcoracoid processes is longi- 

 tudinally striate. A section of the fish in front of the pectoral 

 fins is triangular. 



The preorbital bones are well developed; they form an erect 

 transverse crest of eleven long, sharp teeth, and are toothed late- 

 rally and below. Casque rugulose. 



Radial formula D. I. 4, C. 12, A. 12; Y. 6 ; P. I. 2. The dorsal 

 spine is quite straight, trigonal in section, and longitudinally 

 grooved. The inferior half in front is furnished with stout spines 

 directed upwards ; behind smooth. The pectoral spines are very 

 large, curved, and extend to the second or third ray of the anal 

 fin. They are spinous, and longitudinally grooved. 



The lateral shields are twentj^-three in number, and each is fur- 

 nished below its middle with a recurved spine as in Do7'as. The 

 surface of the plates is granular. Caudal fin truncate. 



Color in front of the dorsal fin dark brown, minutely A^aried 

 with lighter ; a light cross-band from one humeral base to the 

 other, and another between the orbits. Posterior part of the 

 body yellowish, with a dark spot at the base of the dorsal fin ; a 

 band on the middle of the side, and one at the base of the tail. 

 Pins brown-dusted ; dorsal and pectoral spines brown, yellow 

 cross-banded. Inferior surfaces deep brown, except the osseous 

 portions, which are pale brown. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



21b 



Total length . 

 Length to orbit 



" " opercular slit 

 " ventral fin 

 " anal fin 

 " caudal fin 

 of dorsal spine 

 " pectoral spine 

 " postcoracoid 

 Width of muzzle . 

 " at humeral knobs 

 " "1st lateral shield 

 Expanse of both pectoral spines 



4( 



a 

 it 

 (( 



M. 



0.035 

 .0015 

 .007 

 .015 

 .0189 

 .028 

 .0075 

 .0123 

 .0082 

 .005 

 .013 

 .003 

 .081 



Ambyiacu River, Equador. John Hauxwell. 



The preorbital comb is like that of Doras pectinifrons, Cope, 



from the same region. 



CALLICHTHYS ASPEE, Q. Gaim. 



Giinther, v. 225. 



CALLICHTHYS MELAMPTERUS, Cope, sp. nor. 



The head depressed, muzzle broadly rounded. Bodj' strongly 

 compressed ; the dorsal line rising steeply and continuously with 

 the profile, to the dorsal fin. Caudal region much compressed ; 

 tail openly emarginate. Inferior lip little reverted, bearing no 

 barbels; tip of the muzzle projecting but little bej^ond the mouth. 

 Inferior barbel extending to near the end of the ventral fin, supe- 

 rior to near the end of the pectoral. Lateral shields 25-24, from 

 supraclavicle. Azj^gous plates 5. Radii D. 8, A. 1, 6, V. 7, P. 

 I. 8. Dorsal spine like other rays, pectoral toothed within, and 

 with short tooth-like bristles without. Spine of adipose reaching 

 to basis of caudal. 



Orbit 3.5 times in length of head, twice in interorbital width. 

 Depth of head more than two-thirds length. Length of head one- 

 third length without caudal, equal de^Dth. Length over all, three 

 inches. 



Color dark plumbeous ; the preorbital region, and caudal and 

 inferior fins, black. 



This species is much more compressed than the C asper. Be- 

 sides other points, there is one more pectoral ray and a diflferent 



1872.] 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



coloration from the G. knerii, Gill, from Trinidad, W. I. Nu- 

 merous specimens. 



DIANEMA, Cope, gen. nov. 



Allied to Calliclithys. A single barbel at the extremity of each 

 maxillary bone ; two barbels at the symphysis of the mandible ; 

 teeth minute, brush-like. Body shields in two series, as in 

 Gallichthys ; postcoracoids dilated into two shields which meet on 

 the median line and involve the derm, as in Hoplosternum. Sides 

 of the face not shielded ; parietal not reaching base of dorsal fin, 

 but separated by two transverse shields of the sides. Dorsal and 

 pectoral fins with powerful spines, caudal subtruncate. Adipose 

 fin present, pungent. 



This new genus, it will be seen, combines in an interesting 

 manner the characters of Hoplosteryium, Gill, Brochis, Cope, and 

 Gorydoras, Lac. The shielding is of the first, and the fin radii of 

 the last two, while in the peculiar barbels it resembles no other. 

 The relation of these to the double maxillary barbels of Gorydoras 

 appears to be explained by the structure in the genus Brochis, 

 and will be mentioned under that head. 



DIANEMA LONGIBAKBIS, Cope. 



Form rounded compressed; head depressed, wide, but abruptly 

 narrowed in front of the nares. Maxillary barbels not reaching 

 the opei'cular margin, mental to the middle of the pectoral fins. 

 Shields 25-24, azygos four, all nearly smooth. Radii D. I. 7 I.; 

 C. 12 ; A. 7 ; V. 7 ; P. I. 6. The pectoral spine is long and 

 straight, terminating in a point, and is finely and strongly serrate 

 on the inner, and finely bristled on the outer faces. Dorsal spine 

 acute, not serrate. Length of head 3.66 in length without caudal 

 fin, equal depth at dorsal fin. Postorbital width equal .70 length 

 of head, width at nares equal length from muzzle to orbit ; orbit 

 3.75 times in head, 2.5 times in interorbital width. Total length 3^ 

 inches, or .09 m. Color light j^ello wish-brown, fins unspotted. 

 The specimen has, however, lost all coloration it might have had, 

 in the spirits. 



The dorsal spine is less developed than in the species of Gory- 

 dorus. The posttemporal region is perforated by a few pores. 



[January 16, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Sit 



BEOCHIS, Cope, gen. nov. 



Allied to the last genus. Two barbels at the extremity of the 

 maxillary bone, united by a beard-like looped cord to the sym- 

 physis mandibuli, the cord being thus attached at both end?. 

 Teeth rudimental or wanting. Body with two longitudinal series 

 of shields, the postcoracoids expanded and meeting on the median 

 line. Head compressed, the parietal shield only separated from 

 the dorsal spine by the basal azygos shield of the latter. Sides 

 of head shielded to the mandibles. Dorsal and pectoral fins with 

 strong spines ; adipose present, purgeut. Caudal fin emarginate. 



This genus is allied to Corydoras, but differs from it as Hoplo- 

 sternum does from Callichtlnjs with the addition of the peculiar 

 pendent dermal loops of the mandible. These loops are confluent 

 at the symphysis mandibuli, and from that point to their union 

 with the maxillary barbels resemble exactly the mental barbels of 

 Dianema. It is diflficult to avoid believing that these loops are 

 homologically the recurved inferior lips of Corydoras, separated 

 from the greater part of the ramus, but joining again at the can- 

 thus of the mouth and giving rise to the inferior barbel. It then 

 follows with much probabilit}^ that this connection also is severed 

 in Dianema^ and the inferior maxillary barbel remaining as before 

 continuous with the mandibular loop, becomes the mental barbel. 

 In the shielding of the head, Bi^ochis is like Corydoras^ while 

 Dianema is like Hoplosfernum, so that the affinities are compli- 

 cated and not readily expressed by a linear arrangement. 



BEOCHIS COERULEUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form short, stout, elevated, and compressed. Head steep, 

 gently convex above the orbits and concave above and below 

 them, and tapering to a very narrow muzzle, which overhangs the 

 mouth a little. Scuta, 23-21, smooth, with one oval supratempo- 

 ral shield only. Nares small, close to the orbits. One large com- 

 bined pre- and suborbital shield ; a large subtriangular loreal plate. " 

 Maxillary barbels extending to opposite the middle of the orbit. 

 Shields of the head, with the postcoracoids, slightly rugose. 



Length of head one-third length without caudal fin, 1.33 times 

 in greatest depth at basis of dorsal. Orbit four times in head, 

 more than twice in muzzle, which equals the wddth of the convex 

 interorbital space. The dorsal outline is strongly arched, de- 

 1872.] PART III.— 19 




2t8 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



scending behind from the middle of the dorsal fin. Radii D. I. 

 11, I., without adipose portion ; C. 14 ; A. 8 ; V. short, 6 ; P. I. 9. 

 Dorsal spine moderate, serrate behind and smooth before, pectoral 

 stronger, finely but strongly serrate behind, smooth in front ; it 

 extends to or a little beyond the middle of the ventral in all our 

 specimens. Length, three inches ; depth, one inch. 



Color of bod}^ and sides above, with sides of head, metallic 

 blue ; below, yellowish. Fins unspotted. 



This elegant species appears to be very common in the tributa- 

 ries of the Ambyiacu. 



BROCHIS DIPTERUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is represented by a single specimen, which differs in 

 several points from the type of the genus. These are: 1st, the 

 existence of a well-developed adipose membrane to the adipose 

 fin ; 2d, the existence of only ten rays in the first dorsal fin ; 3d, 

 the thick attached inferior lii? with two median beards. The 

 lateral shield of the muzzle is more completely united with the 

 surface of the ethmoid than in similar specimens of the B. 

 coeruleus, but not more so than in larger specimens. Scuta 24 

 above. Pectoral and dorsal spines serrate within. Color and 

 proportions as in B. coeruleus, the added adipose fin having a 

 black border behind. 



The characters of seven specimens of the type species are con- 

 stantly different from this one. 



CORYDORAS, Lacep., 

 Differs from Callichthys in the prolongation of the supraoccipital 

 shield upwards between the lateral shields to near the base of the 

 dorsal ra3^, and in the possession of strong dorsal and pectoral 

 spines. 



The species of this genus are referred to a section of Callich- 

 thys by Dr. Giinther, which he characterizes by the compressed 

 form of the head. I think they constitute a natural genus char- 

 acterized as above, and would admit species having the above 

 peculiarities into it, no matter what the form of the head. The 

 new species here described, however, agree with those already 

 known in this compression of the head and body. The genus 

 differs from Brochis in the non-shielding of the intercoracoid re- 



o 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



gion, and of the sides of the muzzle, these regions being inclosed 

 by membrane only. 



One species, C. semiscutatus., Cope, has the postcoracoid pro- 

 cesses much widened and with a superficial rugose ossification of 

 the derm, thus approaching Brochis. The median portion of the 

 thorax is, however, not inclosed. The sides of the head are also 

 more fully ossified than in other species. 



The typical species present interesting modifications of the in- 

 ferior lips. Thus, that of G. ambiacus is broadly reflexed, of 

 equal thickness, and furnished on its posterior border with two 

 short barbels. In C. trilineatus the lip is recurved, and without 

 barbels, but the margin is thickened into a cord, which is con- 

 nected with the edge of the mandible by a membrane so attenu- 

 ated as to be easily ruptured, when the arrangement resembles 

 closely that seen in Brochis. In the third group the inferior lip 

 appears to be entirely wanting. I add to the characters of the 

 four new species here described those of the three recorded by 

 Giinther, as far as I can learn them. 



Group I. 

 Head longer than high ; barbels to middle of orbit ; "A. 6." 



C. PALEATUS. 



Head higher than long ; barbels to operculum ; A. I. 6. Muzzle long ; 

 dorsal spine moderate serrate; irregularly spotted. C. ambiacus. 



Group II. 



Muzzle short, convex ; barbel to posterior edge of orbit ; dorsal and anal 

 spines shorter, former smooth ; a light lateral band, divided and margined 

 by a black line. C. trilineatus. 



Group III. 



Muzzle produced, acute, concave ; barbel to middle of orbit ; dorsal and anal 

 spines short, former serrate ; no azygus shields ; uniform, with a pale 

 lateral band. C. acutus. 



Muzzle short, acute, concave ; barbels to middle of orbit ; dorsal and anal 

 spines very long, former smooth ; four azygus shields ; olive, black- 

 dotted. C. AMPHIBELUS. 



Group ? ? 



"Head high as long; barbels to gill opening ; A. 8." C. punctatus. 



" Similar to C. paleatns, but fins immaculate ; A. I. 6." C. aeneus. 



"Head higher than long, muzzle short convex; barbels to below eye; 

 dorsal spine long, serrate ; anal short, four or five azygus plates ; anterior 

 scutes with vertical rows of black spots." C. armatus. 



1872.] 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



COEYDORAS SEMISCUTATTIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. I. 11, I., ho adipose portion; A. I. 6 ; V. 6; P. I. 10. 



Scuta 23 above, including postccphalic, no azygus shields. Pre- 

 orbital bone and shield single, large, extending half way from 

 orbit to maxillary, and downwards, .4 way to line of maudible. 

 Postcoracoid processes wide, with convex; inner margins which 

 are separated by a wide fissure, the surface striate rugose, no 

 lateral shield separates them from the base of the ventral fins. 



Profile steep, arched in front of nares; muzzle contracted, 

 pointed. Orbit 3.5 times in head, 1.66 times in muzzle and inter- 

 orbital space. Head 2.8 in length without caudal fin ; depth 2.4 

 times in same. Inferior lip beaded on margin, which easily 

 separates, forming a loop ; no median barbels visible. 



General color above pearly or nacreous-blue, with metallic re- 

 flections on postclavicle and operculum. 



This species shows a mai'ked tendency to the genus Brochis in 

 the increased extent of the osseous shields of the thorax and 

 sides of the head. The enlarged number of dorsal fin raj's is an- 

 other indication of such affinity. It represents very closel}', I 

 have no doubt, a young stage of Br^ochis coerideus in the incom- 

 pleteness of the shield development, and might, by some, be re- 

 garded as that animal itself. Specimens of the latter of nearly 

 the same size betray no approach to it in characters, and experi- 

 ence elsewhere warrants the opinion that the parallelism will be 

 seen at a far younger age than any of our specimens represent. 



CORYDORAS PALEATUS, Jen. 

 Callichthys paleatus, Jenyns Voyage Beagle Fishes, p. 113. Giinther, 

 Catal. B. M. v. 230. 



CORYDORAS AMBIACUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Form ,stout, compressed, dorsal line arched, front convex at 

 orbit, slightly concave on the elongate muzzle. End of muzzle a 

 little projecting beyond mouth, its outline gradualh^ expanding 

 to orbit. Interorbital region transversely convex. Lower li[) 

 widely reverted, its marginal barbels each shorter than the dia- 

 meter of the e3'e. Latter 3.33 times in length of head, 1,15 times 

 into muzzle and interorbital width. Length of head 3,2 times in 

 length without caudal fin, and 1.25 in depth of body. 



Lateral shields 22-21 ; azygus shields one basal and one flat, 



[Februarj' 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Eadii D. 1. 1. A. I. 6; Y. 6; P. I. 9, the spine acute, serrate on inner 

 side, reaching half-way along ventral. Anal spine short, weaker 

 than adipose dorsal spine. Latter with adipose appendage. 



Straw color, with numerous indefinite brown spots on the sides. 

 Dorsal fin with a large black spot covering anterior half, which 

 also expands on the dorsal region round the base of the fin. Four 

 vertical brown bands on caudal fin; anal spotted. Cheeks with 

 blue reflections. Length .058 m.; depth at D. I. .018 m. 



CORYDORAS TRILINEATUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species is easily distinguished from the other species here 

 noticed, by the short, abruptly decurved muzzle, and three longi- 

 tudinal lateral lines. 



The head is much deeper than long, and enters the length with- 

 out caudal fin 3.5 times, and the greatest depth 1.5 times. Orbit 

 2.15 in head, 1.5 in convex interorbital space. Lateral shields 21- 

 20 ; two highly keeled azygus. Radii D. 1. 1 ; A. I. 6 ; V. 6 ; P. I. 6, 

 the spine acute, without serrations; the dorsal spine serrate 

 throughout behind, not extending to the base of the adipose 

 spine. Latter much larger than anal spine, attached to an adipose 

 portion. 



Light straw-colored, brownish above, a j^ellowish lateral band 

 with rather faint brown margin above and below, and blackish 

 median line. A very black spot on tJie ends of the soft dorsal 

 rays ; tail deeply forked, with five vertical bands ; anal spotted. 

 Some longitudinal lines on the side of the face. Length .049 m., 

 depth .015 m. 



The mouth in this species is quite inferior. The peculiar struc- 

 ture of the lower lip, which is a festoon supported by a thin mem- 

 brane, I have verified on two individuals. The thick margin on 

 each side bears a very short barbel. 



CORYDOEAS ACUTUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



A stout species, differing from the others, especially in the at- 

 tenuation of the muzzle, which viewed from above is narrow, and 

 contracted abruptly from the general outline. Mouth inferior, 

 lower lip wanting or not reverted. Head 3.1 times in length 

 without caudal, 1.33 times in depth. Orbit three times in head, 

 1.33 times in the nearly flat interorbital space. Lateral scuta 22- 

 21 ; no azygus plates. Radii D. I. 7 ; A. I. 6 ; V. 6 ; P. I. 5, the 



I8i:2.] 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



spines serrate on the inner side. Dorsal spine serrate poste- 

 riorly on the distal half. Adipose spine without fin, stouter than 

 anal spine. Caudal fin furcate. 



Color olive (faded), a faint pale baud on each side; a large 

 black spot on distal part of dorsal rays. Caudal with four verti- 

 cal bars ; clavicle and operculum with blue reflections. Length 

 .051 m., depth .0155 m. 



CORYDORAS AMPHIBELUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



A species much like the last, but differing in its longer spines, 

 short muzzle, and numerous azygus shields, etc. Form the stoutest 

 in the genus, profile descending steeply from the dorsal fin to be- 

 low the nares, then concave, and descending to the narrow muz- 

 zle. Head three times in length lacking caudal, 1.4 times in depth. 

 Orbit 3 times in head, 1.6 times in interorbital width. Lateral 

 shields 21-19, four flat azygus. Radii D. I. T ; A. L 6 ; V. 6 ; P. I. 

 6, the spine serrate within. Dorsal spine serrate posteriori}^, elon- 

 gate, reaching the adipose spine when depressed. Adipose long 

 without fin, but shorter than the slender spine of the anal. Total 

 length .037 m.; depth .0124 m. 



Color light olive, face with blue reflections. Numerous small 

 black dots on the side shields, which are only wanting on the 

 middle line of the side. Dorsal with a black spot on the ends of 

 its radii, and another at the base of its spine. Caudal with four 

 vertical cross-bars. 



CORYDORAS PUNCTATTJS, Bloch. 



G. geoffroyi, Lacep. CallicMTiys punctatus, D'Orb. Cuv. Val. Giiuth. v. 

 229. 



Surinam, Monte "Video. 



CORYDORAS .ENEUS, Gill. 



Hoplosoma aneum, Gill., Ann. Lye. N. Y., 1851, p. 403. Callichthys, do. 

 Giintlier, 1. c. 



Trinidad, W. L 



I cannot learn the structure of the lips in this and the follow- 

 ing species : — 



CORYDORAS ARMATUS, Giinth. 



CallicMhys armatus, Gthr., Pro. Zool. Soc, Lond., 1868, p. 230. Fig. 1. 



Xeberos on the Huallaga, Peru. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



CORYDOEAS SPLENDENS, Cast. 



CallicMhys splendens, Castelnau, Anim. Nouv. Rar. Am. Sud. 39, Tab. 18, 

 f. 3. 



Rio Tocautins. 



OTOCINCLUS, Cope. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1871, p. 112. 



Subfamily' Hypostomatina of Giinther'-s system. "Ventral fins 

 immediately below the front of the short dorsal ; branchial fis- 

 sures extending a little below pectoral fins. Vent a little behind 

 the middle of the body. Body shielded with several series of 

 I^lates, the anterior less numerous. Thoracic and abdominal re- 

 gions with nnmerous shields. No adipose fin ; dorsal with weak, 

 pectoral with strong spine. Inter-operculum horizontal, beneath 

 the orbit, unarmed. No barbels. The teeth as in allied genera. 

 Post-temporal region pierced with numerous foramina, forming a 

 sieve, which only separates the water from a large cavit}^ on each 

 side of the modified anterior vertebrae, by the thin skin which 

 covers it. 



This genus is allied to Hypoptopoma, and apparently to Rhine- 

 lepis. The arrangement of the opercular bones is like that seen 

 in the former (see figure of H. bilobatum in Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 

 1870, p. 561), while the absence of adipose fin and general rugo- 

 sity are seen in the latter. Neither exhibits the remarkable per- 

 foration of the post-temporal plate. This is, in the only known 

 species, so extensive as to cover the whole plate to the orbit, whicli 

 becomes thus a siceleton sieve of some beauty, through which the 

 cavity within may be plainly seen. Its use is unknown, but may 

 be connected with the function of hearing, as the genus has no 

 swim-bladder. 



OTOCINCLTIS VESTITTJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Body compressed, head elongate oval, neither elevated. Muz- 

 zle rounded-acuminate, projecting much beyond mouth, nareal 

 opening near orbit. Loreal region vertical, a canthus rostralis ; 

 muzzle a little convex between nares and orbits ; profile gently 

 arched from dorsal fin to end of muzzle. Scales obtusely angu- 

 late behind, the exposed surface covered with distant elongate 

 prickles. Four rows on the caudal peduncle, the third from above 

 bearing some tubes of the lateral line, and becoming more elon- 

 gate and oblique anteriorly, until from the point of the pectoral 

 1872.] 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



they occupy the entire inferior half of the side. The second 

 does not enlarge till near the postcephalic plates, where two or 

 three occupy the upper half of the side. Longitudinal line con- 

 taining twenty-one. Those of the superior and inferior series are 

 angulate near the margin of the peduncle, and meet on the supe- 

 rior and inferior median lines by a straight suture. Thus these 

 faces form distinct but slightl}^ convex, narrow planes. Parietal 

 shield broader than long, postparietal large, its apex separated 

 from D. I. by two cross-shields, the first wider. A large shield 

 on each side the postparietal. The whole of this region swollen, 

 greatest width of head at the sieve. 



Orbit three times in head, twice in interorbital width; head 3.5 

 times in length, without caudal fin ; depth 4.5 times in same. 

 Caudal fin well developed, deeply forked. Dorsal elevated in 

 front ; radii I. 6 ; C. 17 ; A. I. 5 ; Y. I. 5 ; P. I. 5 ; the spine flat, 

 reaching the basal fourth of the ventrals, with short spines out- 

 side which become teeth at the end; within smooth. Scapular 

 arch rather narrow below, followed by thi'ee series of shields, of 

 which the lateral are long and narrow. These gradually diverge 

 and admit three series of small scales, which again diminish and 

 terminate in an obtuse point between the ventral fins. This leaves 

 with the ends of the lateral shields a Y-shaped naked space, at 

 the end of which is situated the vent. These are covered with 

 numerous short bristles, like the scales of the dorsal region. The 

 head, esj^ecially the muzzle, and more particularly the sides of 

 the latter, are covered with many short, closely set, spiny bristles, 

 which give the whole fish a hoary appearance when dry. Spines 

 of fins also hirsute. Teeth bristle-like, those of the mandibular 

 rami opposed to each other. 



Yellowish-brown above, browner on the head, darkest on the 

 lores. Sides and below bright yellow, a weak dark shade on 

 lateral line, and large black spot at base of caudal. Fins un- 

 spotted. Total length .04 m. ; length to anal fin .02 ; width of 

 head behind .001. 



Tributaries of the Ambyiacu. 



LIPOSARCUS VARITJS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. II. 13, I. ; C. I. 14, I ; A. 5 ; Y. I. 5 ; P. I. 6. Dorsal 

 longer than high, basis nearly equal length in front of it. Pec- 

 toral spine to middle of ventral ; superior caudal ray shorter 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



than inferior. Scuta 1. 1. 28, 1. tr. 4. Inferior resjions granular : 

 clermo-ossification of head extending to inferior plane all around, 

 Orbit small, three times in interorbital width, five times in head, 

 width a little greater than length. A marked canthus rostralis 

 to beyond nares; loreal region steep, concave. An occipital keel, 

 nuchal shields two-keeled. Elevation at latter, equal length 

 muzzle and orbit. 



Scales rugose, with a serrate median keel ending in a point. 



Above, brown ; below, 3^ellowish-brown, closel}^ spotted with 

 dark brown, most coarsely on the bell}'-, and finely on the head, 

 leaving vermicular interspaces ; eight rows of black spots on the 

 dorsal fin. Other fins, except the caudal, closely black-spotted. 



Length .18 m. ; to anal fin .085 ; to mandible .01. 



Numerous young specimens of this species, the largest .085 m. 

 in length, disjjlay the following characters of immaturity. The 

 inferior surfaces are smooth, and in the smaller the dermo-ossifi- 

 cation of the loreal region exists only in spots, and in still smaller 

 is wanting. 



Two large specimens from Perkin's expedition have the hume' 

 ral width and the total length, the base of the dorsal fin enters 

 the same 3. 75 times, and is equal the length of the pectoral spine, 

 and the greatest depth of the body enters six times. The speci- 

 mens agree with Castelnau's L. pardalis in having dorsal radii 

 1.12, but differ in having no keel on each side of the back poste- 

 rior to the dorsal fin, and in having large spots on the belly, not 

 " punctse." The former character I derive from Castelnau's figure 

 only. 



The young of a second species of this genus occurs in the col- 

 lection. 



PLECOSTOMTJS BISERIATUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Radii D. I. 7 ; A. 5 ; Y. I. 5 ; P. I. 6. Lateral series of scuta 

 28, three rows between ventral and dorsal fins. Elevation of first 

 dorsal ray equal length of head ; length of basis equal to dis- 

 tance from spine of adipose, and 1.66 times length of head and 

 nape. Scuta between dorsals 8, between anal and caudal 16. 

 Pectoral spine to basis of ventral. Scuta not carinate, coarsely 

 striate, the striifi terminating in a few small spines. 



Head short, entering length without caudal fin 4.5 times, and 



a little less than width. A postoi'bital and orbito-nareal angle, 



rim of orbit elevated above front. An obtuse median occipital 

 lh72.J 




286 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



elevation, nuchal scuta not keeled. Orbits four times in head, 

 2.5 times in interorbital space. Muzzle regularly acuminate, a 

 triangular spot on extremity, smooth. Margins of muzzle not 

 spinous. Inferior surfaces rugose, except a smooth band sur- 

 rounding posterior lip, and a quadrate area within ventral fins. 

 Lip entire ; barbels short. 



Inferior caudal ray one-quarter longer than superior, no long 

 bristles on it or the ventral- 

 Total length 1.55 m. ; do. to dorsal fin .045 ; to anal ; hume- 

 ral width .07. Color yellow; below white, immaculate. Above 

 with three rows of ill-defined blackish spots at the unions of 

 scales, the inferior wanting behind the line of the dorsal fin. 

 Head above with many close brown dots. Dorsal fin with two 

 rows of blackish spots between each pair of rays ; one series be- 

 tween the caudals. Twenty-eight teeth on each ramus maudibuli. 

 From the Amazon, from Robert C. Perkins. This species is 

 especially distinguished by its short head, and by the characters 

 of squamation of lower surface, color, etc. 



PLECOSTOMUS SCOPULARIUS, Cope, sp. nov. 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1871, p. 55. 



Is represented by a number of similar young individuals. 

 They differ in having a more slender muzzle, and dorsal radii II. 

 12, 1. Ventrals also I. 5. 



CHJETOSTOMUS, Tsch. Heckel. 



There appear to be five nearly related species in the collection 

 from the Arabyiacu, and I cannot find that any of them have been 

 noticed by authors. Their characters may be summarized as fol- 

 lows : — 



I. Muzzle naked, D. I. 7. 



Muzzle with tentacles ; eye 3.33 times in interorbital space ; head 3^^ times 

 in length (without caudal). Head wide. Black below, white-dotted. 



C. ALGA. 



II. Muzzle with a broad naked marginal band ; no tentacles ; D. I. 7. 

 Eye three times in interorbital width; head broad, short, 3.75 times in 

 length ; 1. 1. 23. Brown, with indistinct pale spots ; uniform below. 



C. MALACOPS. 



Eye three times in front, head wedge-shaped, roofed in front, 3.5 times in 

 length ; naked band narrower ; blackish, white-dotted below. 



C. TECTIROSTRIS. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



Eye 2.33 times in front ; head short, contracted at the front, four times in 

 length ; canthus rostralis vertical concave ; brown, with many large oval 

 pale spots above only. C. varioltjs. 



III. Unossified margin of muzzle exceedingly narrow, no tentacles, D. I. 7. 



Head short, broad, 4.25 times in length ; eye 2.66 in front. Black, below 

 brown ; small. C. sericeus. 



The smallest of these species, it will be observed, has the most 

 complete dermo-ossification, and the largest the least. The next 

 largest species, G. tectirostris, is next most fully ossified, while 

 the G. malacops^ with but little ossification, is after G. sericeus, 

 and G. variolus the smallest. So there is no relation between the 

 ossification and the size. 



It may be observed that these species all agree in many points 

 not above mentioned, viz. : Anal radii V. ; V. I. 5 ; P. I. 6 ; and in 

 having the inferior lobe of the caudal longer than the superior. 

 Thorax and belly naked ; lateral lines 23-4. 



CH^ETOSTOMUS ALGA, Cope, sp. nov. 



Width of head 3.33 times in length without caudal. Preoper- 

 cular spines thirteen, of which two posterior are longer, and ex- 

 tend a little beyond the line of the orbit. Muzzle with numerous 

 tentacles on the margin and sides, and a Y-shaped series above of 

 larger size, the largest in front at the apex of the Y. Dorsal 

 spine a little longer than base of fin, one-half length ; pectoral 

 spine extending to basal third or two-fifths of ventral spine. 

 Scuta with ten serrate subequal ridges, each terminating in a spine. 

 The ossification of the derm forms only a narrow baud in front 

 of nares and orbit. 



Total length .165 m. I associate with this species a second 

 specimen, which agrees in every respeet except in wanting tenta- 

 cles. This is probably, as Giinther states of G. cin^hosus, the 

 female. 



This species is apparently near the latter species, but has a 

 shorter body. 



CH^TOSTOMUS MALACOPS, Cope, sp. nov. 



The lores are naked to near the nares, but the ossification ex- 

 tends in an angle to the middle of the muzzle. Width of head 



o' 



1872.] 




288 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



3.4 in total without caudal. Ten principal bristles, the longest 

 not extending to hinder margin of orbit. Dorsal spine longer, 1.5 

 times in length anterior to it ; pectoral reaching beyond base of 

 ventrals. Ten plates from anal to caudal, five between dorsals. 

 Color brown, with many closely placed yellow spots. Length 

 .097 m. With the last; two specimens. 



CH^TOSTOMTJS VARIOLUS, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species has a much narrower unossified labial margin than 

 the last, the muzzle being entirely covered above to near the lip. 

 Thirteen principal opercular spines which do not extend beyond 

 the line of the orbit ; three of them longer and subeqnal. Loreal 

 region vertical. Scuta between dorsals 6, between anal and caudal 

 10. Dorsal spine 1.5 times length from its base to muzzle. Pec- 

 toral spine a little beyond base of ventral. Ridges of scuta re- 

 presented by rows of bristles, which give them a hoary appearance. 

 No keels. 



Length .068 ra. Color bright brown, with numerous large round 

 yellow spots ; belly unspotted. With the last. 



CH^TOSTOMUS TECTIROSTRIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



Naked labial band as wide as space between nares and orbit. 

 Only eleven preopercular spines, of which two posterior are sub- 

 equal, longer, and reaching a little beyond line of orbit. Loreal 

 region oblique, nearly plane. Dorsal spine L66 times in length 

 in advance of it. Pectoral spines to a little bej'ond ventral. 

 Scuta between dorsals 5, behind anal 10. The scuta are serrate 

 ridged as in C. alga. The muzzle is ridged on the median line, 

 and the sides slope gradually on each side ; no other ridges on 

 the head. 



Black, with minute yellow dots above and below. Length .13 

 m., greatest width of head .031. Two specimens. 



CH^TOSTOMTJS SERICETIS, Cope, sp. nov. 



This species has a more elongate body than the others here de- 

 scribed, the length containing that of the head 4.25 times, and 

 the width 3.5 times. The head is thus wide and flat, and the 

 naked portion is reduced to a very narrow band along the margin 

 of the muzzle. Latter convex in section, loreal region concave. 

 Eleven spines, the posterior not quite reaching line of posterior 



[February 13, 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



rim of orbit. Dorsal spine 1.5 times in length in front of its 

 base ; pectoral scarcelj^ beyond base of ventral. The ridges of 

 other species are represented by rows of bristles. No ridges on 

 the head. Color black, unspotted, or in a smaller specimen with 

 faint pale spots above. Length .067 m. Two specimens with the 

 preceding. 



This species and the C. malacops might have been regarded as 

 the young of C. tectirostris and C. alga, respectively, were it not 

 that the larger individuals possess the characters of immaturity 

 exhibited b}^ other animals, viz., larger head, and less ossification 

 of the derm of the muzzle. 



LORICAEIA ACUTA, Cuv. VaL 



XV. 472 ; Gthr., Calal. B. M. v. 258. 

 From the Ambyiacu. 



PARIOLITJS, Cope, gen. nov. 



Allied to Tricliomycterus. Ventral fins present, anterior to the 

 short dorsal. Anal fin short; vent situated beneatli the dorsal 

 fin ; no adipose fin. No nasal barbel, one maxillary and two 

 lateral mentals. No armature on any of the opercular bones. 

 Teeth in brush-like series. 



This genus is allied to Trichomycterus in the extensive bran- 

 chial fissures and other characters, but differs in the absence of 

 armature of the head, and number and position of tentacles. 



PAKIOLIIJS ARMILLATUS, Cope, .«p. nov. 



Head flat rounded, ej^es small, superior, covered by the skin. 

 Head 4.5 times in length to basis of caudal fin. Depth at D. I. 

 one-half length to basis pectoral fin ; width of head two-thirds 

 the same distance. Interorbital width 3.66 times in lensfth of 

 head. Maxillarj'- and external mental barbels extending beyond 

 basis of pectoral ; inner mental barbel on half the same. Radii 

 D. 7; P. 8 ; V. 6 ; A. 11 ; caudal acuminate. Skin entirely smooth. 



Color dark-brown, nearly black on the top of the head; under 

 surfaces from anus brownish-j'cllow, brown punctulate. A broad 

 3'^ellow collar extends from the under surface on each side across 

 the bases of the pectoral fins and the vertex. A vertical dark 

 spot on base of caudal ; fins brown-spotted. 



1872.] 




290 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



M. 

 Total length . . . . , . . . .0.041 



Length to opercular edge 0078 



" pectoral fin 008 



" dorsal 0158 



" anal 0245 



" caudal 033 



From the Ambyiacu, Jno, Hauxwell, 



PAKIODON MICROPS, Kner. 



Sitzungsb. Wien. Acad., 1855, p. IGl. Giinther, Catal. B. Mus. v. 375. 



A fine specimen of this fish was obtained by Robert Perkins. 

 It is nearly allied to Stegophiliis Rhdt., and belongs to the Stego- 

 2')hilina of Giinther. The latter author, however, places it in his 

 Trichomycterina, a step calculated to mislead the student, as it 

 contradicts its natural characters. Giinther does not appear to 

 have seen the fish, and perhaps Kner omits mention of the cha- 

 racters necessary to decide the question. It possesses the very 

 posterior vent, and the gill covers united with the throat found 

 by Giinther to define the Stegophilina. 



SYMBRANCHIDiE 



SYMBRANCHUS MAEMORATUS, Bl. 



The fishes of the Ambyiacu, so far as made known by the pre- 

 ceding investigation, are referable to eight families, fifty genera, 

 and seventy-four species. These are distributed as follows : — 



Gen. Species. 



Chromidid^, t 15 



Clupeid^, 1 1 



osteoglossid^, 1 1 



Sternopygid^, 2 3 



Erythrinid^e, 2 2 



Characinid^, 21 29 



SlLURID^, 15 24 



Symbranchid^, 1 1 



Fort3'-seven of the above species and nine of the genera are 

 new to science, and are referable to the following families : — 



[February 13, 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 291 



Chromidid^, 

 Erythinid^, 

 Characinid^, 



SiLURIDuE, 



The general character of this list is that of any other part of 

 the Amazon basin, presenting peculiarities in peculiar species and 

 in genera not found in the lower Amazon. Such genera amonor 

 Characindae are TrijMrtheus^ Megalobrycon, Aphyocharax, Iguano- 

 dectes^ and Stethaprion ; among Siluridse, Diariema, Brochis, Za- 

 tliorax, Pliysopyxis^ Otocinclus, and Pariolius. A genus (Cha- 

 racidium) previously only known by one small species from a 

 Brazilian coast stream, has its range greatl}"^ extended by the 

 discovery of a species in the Ambyiacu. 



The species contained in the Perkins collection are as follows : — 



CHROMIDIDJE. 



Pterophyllum scalare, C. y. 



Symphysodon DISCUS, Heck. 



CiCHLA ocellaris, B1. Schn. 



Geophagus proximus, Cast. Radii D. XYII-XTIII-11 ; A. III- 



8. Scales 6-34-12, upper and lower halves caudal fin scaly to 



near end. 

 Hygrogonus ocellatus, Agass. 



SCIAENID.!:. 



One species. 



PLEUKONECTIDa;. 



One species. 



OSTEOGLOSSID.E. 



OSTEOGLOSSUM BICIRRHOSUM, Vand. 



CHARACINID.S:. 

 CURIMATUS CYPRINOIDES, L. 



Hemiodus microlepis, Kner. 

 Tetragonopterus chalceus, Artedi. 

 Myletes albiscopijs. Cope. 

 Myletes bidens, Spix. 

 Myletes, sp. nov. 

 1872.] 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



Serrasalmo ^sopus, Cope. 

 Serrasalmo humeralis, Kner. 

 Serrasalmo nattereri, Kner. 

 Hydrolycus scomberoides, Spix. 



RCEBOIDES RUBRIVERTEX, Cope. 



SILURIDffi. 



Cetopsis ccecutiens, Licht. 

 Pabiodon microps, Kner. 

 Piramutana, sp. nov. 

 Callophysus lateralis, Gill. 

 Phractocephalus hemiliopterus, B1. Schn, 

 Rhinodoras NIGER, Yalenc. 

 Doras brachiatus, Cope. 

 Plecostomus scopularius. Cope. 

 Plecostomus biseriatus, Cope. 

 LiPOSARCUs VARius, Cope. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



EXPLAITATIO^ OF THE PLATES. 



Plate III. 



Fig. 1. Doras pectinifrons Cope. 



Plate IY. 



Fig. 1. ZatTiorax monitor Cope ; b from below ; c from front. 

 " 2. Otocinclus vestitus Cope; 6 from above; c head, side view. 



Plate Y. 



Fig. 1. Physopyxis lyra Cope; h from below ; c from front. 

 " 3. Chcetostomus 7nakccops Coi^e; 5 from below. 



Plate YI. 



Fig. 1. Corydoras semiscutatus Cope; b from below. 

 " 3. Corydoras trilineatus Cope ; b from above ; c from below. 



Plate YII. 



Fig. 1. Dinnema longibarbis Cope ; a from above ; b from below. 

 " 3. BrocMs coeruUus Cope ; a from above ; b from below. 



Plate YIII. 



Fig. 1. Iguanodectes temiis Cope (adipose fin omitted by artist) ; la denti- 

 tion. 

 " 2. GJiaracidium etheostoma Cope; (\.eni\iio\x. 

 " 3. Triportlieus albus Cope; ^QMiiiiorx. 



Plate IX. 



Fig. 1. Anacyrtus sanguineus Cope. 

 " 3. Serrasalmo iridopsis Cope. 

 " 3. BrocMs coeruleus Cope. 



Plate X. 



Fig. 1. CrenieicJda anthurus Cope. 

 " 2. Megalobrycon erytliroptertim Cope. 



Plate XI. 



Fig. 1. GeopJiagus badiipinnis Cope. 



" 2. Varus centrarchoides Cope. 



" 3. Acara syspilus Cope. 



" 4. Acara flavilabr is Cope. 

 1872.] part III.— 20 




294 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



Plate XII. 



Fig. 1. 3[yletes alhiscopus Cope. 

 " 2. Myletes oculus Cope. 

 " 3. Myletes herniarius Cope. 



Plate XIII. 



Fig. 1. Megalohrycon melanopterum Cope. 

 " 2. Xiplwstoma tcedo Cope. 

 " 3. (Jharacidium etheostoma Cope. 



Plate XIY. 



Fig. 1. TriportJieus flavus Cope. 

 " 2. Triportheus albus Cope. 

 " 3. Clialcinus ctiUer Cope. 

 " 4. CaUichihys melampterus Cope. 

 " 5. The same ; head from above. 



Plate XY. 



Fig. 1. Boras grypus Cope. 

 " la. I)o. from below. 



" 2. Cliatostomus tectirostris Cope. 

 " 3. Chcetostonius alga Cope, from above. 



Plate XYI. 



Fig. 1. Plecostomus scopularius Cope; one-fourth natural size. 

 " 2. Same from below. 



Plate XYII. 



Fig. 1. Notliopsis rugosus Cope. 



2. Do. head from side. 



3. Bo. n u above. 



4. Bo. u u below. 

 .5. Dentition of upper jaw and palate. 

 6. TrigonocepliaHs atrox Cope, var. from Central America. 



u 

 u 

 u 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 295 



November T. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-four members present. 



The death of Wilhelm Ritter von Ilaidinger, a correspondent 

 of the Academy, was announced. 



Prof. Cope exhibited a specimen of a Galeodes, probably G. 

 pallipes of Say, taken in the town of Denver, Colorado, by Dr. 

 Gehrung. xVccording- to that gentleman, it was common in that 

 place in houses, and was an euem}^ and destroyer of the Cimex 

 lectulariws (bedbug). In captivity, it showed a preference for them 

 as food, and crushed them in its short cheles, preliminar3^ to suck- 

 ing their juices. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said that while travelling throu2;h a wood 

 recently he was struck in the face bj^ some seeds of Ilamamehs 

 virginica, the common Witch Hazel, with as much force as if 

 they were spent shot from a gun. Not aware before that these 

 capsules possessed any pi'ojecting power, he gathered a quantity 

 in order to ascertain the cause of the projecting force, and the 

 measure of its power. La3'ing tiie capsules on the floor, he found 

 the seeds were thrown generally four or six feet, and in one in- 

 stance as much as twelve feet awa}'. The cause of this immense 

 projecting power he found to be simply in the contraction of the 

 horny albumen which surrounded the seed. The seeds were oval, 

 and in a smooth bony envelope, and when the albumen had burst 

 and expanded enough to get just bej'ond the middle where the 

 seed narrowed again, the contraction of the albumen caused the 

 seed to slip out with force, just as we would squeeze out a smooth 

 tapering stone between the finger and thumb. 



November 21. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six members present. 



The following paper was presented for publication : — 



"Notes on Feldspars and some other Minerals of Philadelphia 

 and vicinity." By Theo. D. Rand. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan said that of all the problems that faced 

 the botanist, few seemed more impenetrable than the law which 

 governed the angular divergence in the branches of plants. Sorde 



1872.] 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



grew quite prostrate, and others, though closely allied species, 

 might be strictl}^ erect. At the present season of the year we 

 ma}^ note plants witli prostrate leaves or branches, which in spring 

 will have them of a sharp, uj^right angle. Tlie verbascums at the 

 present time, especially V. blattaria^ had their root leaves so 

 firml}'' pressed against the ground, that on lifting they would fall 

 back with a spring ; as soon as the central axis grew, the leaves 

 from that would be almost upright. In some respects, erection 

 or prostration became almost specific characters. The Bubus 

 viUosits usnall}'' grew erect even from infancy, and the Hubus 

 canadensis generally trailed ; yet the last-named would sometimes 

 throw up strong erect stems, which could scarcely be distinguished 

 in that stage from B. villosus. Again, the same species of tree 

 would often produce individuals quite erect, and at other times 

 ver}' pendent, and hence we had in Horticulture the class of weep- 

 ing trees. All trees seemed to have this power of producing pen- 

 dent individuals. The oaks, ashes, poiDlars, elms, all furnished 

 familiar examples. 



It was usual with botanists to pass these things over as " weak- 

 nesses." But the term weakness explained nothing. To say 

 that these plants had lost the power of erection, was simply re- 

 stating the primar}^ fact. Moreover, some of these prostrate forms 

 had apparently more vigor than the erect ones. Biibus canaden- 

 sis was weaker than B. villosus, truly ; but, on the other hand, 

 some of the Russian trailing junipers were far more vigorous 

 than an3' of the upright forms. The weeping beech also was in 

 appearance more vigorous than the ordinary forms. All beeches 

 had their young growth pendent. As the growth matured, the 

 branches became erect ; but in the weeping form erection did not 

 come with maturit}', and hence it remained pendent. In the ashes, 

 however, there was no pendency in the young growth ; but the 

 " weeping ash" was one of the most decided of all drooping trees. 

 In such cases as these, the law which governed the angles of 

 divergence must either be different in each case, or operate at 

 different stages of the development of the branches. 



In his late travels in the Rocky Mountains, he came on a tract 

 covered profusely with one of the small creeping Euphorbias, 

 probably E. cordata, in which a large quantity grew perfectly 

 erect. Sometimes only a portion of the plant exhibited this 

 character, at other times all the plant was upright. The speci- 

 mens he exhibited were of the erect class. In all these cases the 

 plant was attacked by a small fungus, jEcidium eiqjhorbise., hy- 

 pericsefolia of Schweinitz. He thought that the fact that this 

 little fungus should be able to make a usually creeping plant, 

 rooting from every joint, entirely lose this character and become 

 erect, was worthy of some notice by students in this branch of 

 botan3^ 



[Februarj^ 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 297 



Flies as a 3Ieans of Communicating Contagious Diseases. 



Prof. Leidy remarked tliat at this time, during tlie prevalence of 

 smallpox, he was reminded of an opinion he had entertained that 

 flies were probably a means of communicating contagious disease 

 to a greater degree than was generall^^ suspected. From what 

 he had observed in one of the large military hospitals, in which 

 hospital gangrene had existed, during the late rebellion, he thought 

 flies should be carefully excluded from wounds. Recently he 

 noticed some flies greedily sipping the diffluent matter of some 

 fungi of the Phallus impudicus. He caught several, and fonnd 

 that on holding them by the wings they would exude two or 

 three drops of liquid from the proboscis, which, examined b}^ the 

 microscope, were found to swarm with the spores of the fungus. 

 The stomach was likewise filled with the same liquid, swarming 

 with spores. 



November 28. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three membei's present. 



The deaths of Rev. E. E. Adams and Gen. F. F. Cavada, cor- 

 respondents of the Academy, were announced. 



Prof. Cope made some remarks on the fauna of the Wyan- 

 dotte Cave in Southern Indiana. He stated that the blind fish 

 of the Mammoth Cave (Amblyopsis spelseus) was not rare in 

 waters flowing from it, and that an Astacus^ probably A. pellu- 

 cidus also occurred. He had detected two species of Anophthal- 

 mus, both of which were new, according to Dr. Horn ; and three 

 Staphylinidse^ two of which were to be described by Dr. Horn. 

 A cricket of the genns Raphidophora^ and two species of flies, 

 were also common. There were two species of spiders, one a 

 true Aranean^i the other allied to Opilio. A centipede allied to 

 Pseudotremia was very abundant. A curious aquatic crustacean 

 with external egg-pouches was fonnd in an old trough. The 

 most remarkable animal is a crustacean of the Lernaean division, 

 found parasitic on the npper lip of the Amblyopsis. It had an 

 elongate cephalothorax, oval abdomen separated by a constriction, 

 not distinctly segmented, and with short egg-pouches. The an- 

 terior limbs modified into a single strong peduncle. The form 

 appeared to be allied to Achtheres, but the single nndivided 

 peduncle distinguished it generically. He called it Cauloxenus 

 stygius. 



Prof. Cope exhibited a number of specimens of fossil reptiles 

 recently procured bj^ him in Western Kansas, in the Cretaceous 

 Chalk. They consisted of two specimens of Liodon proriger^ 

 Cope, and portions of jaws with teeth of four new Pythonomorph 

 1872.] 




298 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



reptiles, viz.: Edestosauinis torior, Cope; Holcodus corypJiseus., 

 Cope ; H. ictericus, Cope ; and Liodon curtirostris, Cope. Tlie 

 first was regarded as a very slender form, with a cranium two 

 and one-half feet in length, and with compressed teeth. The 

 others were much stouter species, the H. coryphseuH having a 

 high occipital crest and long acute teeth. Length thirty feet. 

 The two remaining species were about the same size. 



The following gentlemen were elected members: Richard Day, 

 Thos. E. Parke, M.D., Commodore John P. Gillis, U.S.N., Samuel 

 W. Pennypacker, Richard A. Lewis, W. Grier Hibler, Louis Stille, 

 M.D., Jas. A. Ogden, Roland G. Curtin, M.D., Allen Shryock. 



The following were elected correspondents : Geo. Stewardson 

 Brady, M.D., of Sunderland, Eng'd., Prof. W. C. Kerr, of Raleigh, 

 N. C, Dr. Jos. K. Corson, U.S.A., J. Van A. Carter, M.D,, of Fort 

 Bridger, Wyoming. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be published : — 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



NOTES ON FELDSPARS AND SOME OTHER MINERALS OF 

 PHILADELPHIA AND VICINITY. 



BY THEODGEE D. RAND. 



Orfhoclase, from the ravine three-quarters of a mile west of 

 Media, the locality mentioned in Dana's Mineralogy as Mineral 

 Hill. Color pale-greenish, two cleavages highly perfect, giving a 

 prism four inches, by one and a half, by one and a half, 90°. Four 

 other specimens from the same locality, one quite green, the others 

 grayish and greenish, all with two perfect cleavages, 90°. 



Oligoclase, from same locality, and intermixed with the former 

 and with quartz, but showing opalescence, and sometimes chato- 

 yant reflections, and, rarely, both on the same surface, the brachy- 

 diagonal cleavage oo P oc. These cleavages were by no means so 

 perfect as in the former, and but few specimens woiild admit of 

 accurate measurements. The basal plane generally showed dis- 

 tinct but very fine strise. The measurements are given below. 



OHgoclase, from two miles west of Media, and southwest of the 

 Black Horse Hotel. This is the whitish, translucent moonstone, 

 occurring in A^ery brilliant specimens. In this, as in the former, 

 the cleavage surface parallel to oo P oo is frequently irregular and 

 sometimes curved. There was also observed, in both this and the 

 former, a third cleavage, still more imperfect. The measurements 

 (with the common goniometer) were as follows : — 



Oligoclase, 12 3 



^^ -D^ ( 93.50 93 



OP on CO Poo I ggjO g^ gg _ 



„-D „, , ( (If 00 P' 114.40) 



OP on 3d cleavage j ^ 65.20 ... 07 67 



^. oT , ( (If odP' 120.24) 119 120 ... 



coPccon3dcleav.|^ 59.56 ... 63 ... 



1, 2, 3, and 4 are from the ravine near Media; 5, G, 7, and 8 from 

 near the Black Horse Hotel. 



It seems probable that this third cleavage, which has not, I be- 

 lieve, been noticed before, is parallel to the plane co P' (I' of 

 Dana), similar to that of orthoclase and albite. 



Sunstone, from a ravine immediately north of that first de- 

 scribed, 90°. Near this the Delawarite is found. My specimens 

 18t2.] 




300 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



do not admit of accurate measurements, but in one specimen it 

 graduates into oligoclase, and it is perliaps but an alteration of 

 that species. It lias distinct triclinic striations. 



Cassinite, from Blue Hill, Providence Township, Delaware 

 County, measures 00°. 



Lennilite, Lenni, Delaware County, a very perfect cleavage 

 gave 8G-87, but the absence of triclinic striae would indicate that 

 this is an orthoclase. 



Bluish transparent veined Feldspar, from Yan Arsdale's quarrj'-, 

 near Feisterville, Bucks County, Pa., two cleavages, highly per- 

 fect, and giving finely polished surfaces, 90°. The opalescent 

 feldspar from the same quarry, called labradorite, is probably the 

 same. 



Orthoclase, from Frankford, Philadelphia, nearly pure white in 

 color, and translucent. Besides the ordinary cleavages, OP and 

 00 P oc, the more unusual, oo P co and co P, are occasionally well 

 developed, giving rise to two rhombohedra, one with the faces 

 parallel to the axes, the other derived from this by the develop- 

 ment of the plane oo P, as shown in the annexed section on a 

 plane parallel to OP (Fig. 1). Rhombohedra of the first form 

 have been found also at the quarries on the Pennsylvania Rail- 

 road, near the west end of the Fairmount dam. 



(X>Pab 



Po 



P^ 



00 J.-" oo 



oo J? oc 



In three specimens of the Frankford orthoclase, a fifth cleavage 

 appears, quite imperfect, truncating the angle between co P, OP 

 and GO P ex, or the edge between OP and oo P oo forming with OP 

 an angle of about 135, and with oo P (» nearly 90°, Fig. 2. If this 

 is not a mere accident, it is not easy to explain. 



Rhombs from the quarries mentioned on the Pennsylvania Rail- 

 road have been found, with the following angles for the face of 

 nnusual cleavage on OP and oo P c^: — 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 301 



It is, liowever, most probable that this is a distortion of cc P oo. 



In the cutting of the Pennsylvania Railroad, northwest of the 

 wire bridge, an orthoclase was found, somewhat decomposed and 

 chalky in aspect, cleaving into rhombohedra of the second kind, 

 and also into six-sided prisms, ter- 

 minated by the OP plane, and from 

 a slight distortion in angle the ^^ff- ^ 

 prism angles each measuring ex- <xPx 



actly 120° (Fig. .3). 



In Frankford, the orthoclase oc- 

 curs in a granitic vein on the south- 

 ern portionof thebedof hard horn- 

 blendic gneiss, the IST. E. outcrop of '^^ ^ 



which is at this point, and which is 

 exposed also near Wajnie St. on 



the Germantown Railroad, and on Rittenhouse Lane near the 

 Wissahicon, and which crosses the Schuylkill at the hill through 

 which the Flat Rock Tunnel on the Reading Railroad is pierced. 

 This gneiss throughout is very hard, and in its fissures occur 

 several species of zeolites, with calcite, and at Frankford crys- 

 tallized epidote in fine specimens, and also fluor spar in a vein 

 of calcite, and well-crystallized molybdenite in a vein of ortho- 

 clase. The calcite contains also j-ellow crystals so minute as to 

 be detected only by examination with the microscope, of the por- 

 tion insoluble in hydrochloric acid. Their nature has not been 

 determined, the quantity being verj^ small. There also occurs a 

 yellow hyaline coating, in veins of the gneiss, which is probably 

 a hyalite, colored by uranium. 



This gneiss, except near Wayne Station, is bedded with great 

 regularity, and affords a most excellent curb and building stone ; 

 its fracture in one direction, owing to cleavage, is smooth and 



1872.] 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



plane, but in tlie others, when notjointed, irregular and sometimes 

 conchoidal. 



At a quarry on the northern edge of this gneiss, north of Frank- 

 ford, Apophyllite was found; its only place of occurrence in the 

 neighborhood. 



At the line between Philadelphia and Montgomery counties, 

 the well-known steatite bed, beginning on the west side of Chest- 

 nut Hill, about three miles distant, crosses the Schuylkill and 

 coiitinues in a nearly southwest by south direction (exactly S. 

 54 W.), bej^ond that river about two miles and a half, where it 

 crosses the valley of Mill Creek, and ends, or sinks beneath the 

 surface. Perhaps the most conspicuous and remarkable rock of 

 this belt is a steatite, containing a l)lack serpentine. This rock 

 in man}' places projects above the surface of the ground in im- 

 mense masses, particularly at Mill Creek, seeming to have re- 

 sisted erosion and decomposition to a remarkable degree. It lies 

 on the northwest side of the steatite proper. The whole aspect 

 of this curious formation suggests a rock originally containing 

 crystals of some mineral, but metamorphosed almost beyond 

 recognition. To this mineral I believe no clue has heretofore 

 been obtained. Isearly all these black masses, which vary in size 

 from a half inch or less to several inches, are irregular in form, 

 and adhere so closely to the matrix that sections onl}^ can be ob- 

 tained, which, however, rarely show any angles or other than a 

 nodular form, so that the rock has by some been considered a 

 conglomerate. Even in weathering, the two, except in one place 

 hereafter mentioned, seem to weather so much alike that no clue 

 to the form can thus be had. 



About two years ago, however, I found near the soapstone 

 quarry, on the northeast bank of the Schuylkill, one of these ser- 

 pentine masses presenting a stellated form of six ra3^s, or of one 

 large cr3'stal crossed b}^ two smaller at angles of about GO and 

 120 on the section plane, suggesting staurolite. A few days ago, 

 while with Prof. E. J. Houston examining this rock on the south- 

 west side of Mill Creek, a piece was found containing a broken 

 crystal 4i inches x 1^ X 1^, presenting two well-defined sides, 

 and upon a cross-fracture, these sides were found to continue to 

 another formino- with one of the sides an angle of about "75° on 

 the section, which approximated a plane at right angles to the 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 303 



faces. The steatite in which it was imbedded, and the serpentine 

 Itself, contained ferruginous dolomite or breunnerite. 



On the northeast side of Mill Creek, a portion of the rock in 

 place was found very much Aveathered on the surface, the steatite 

 being cavernous and decomposed, and very soft and brittle, 

 owing, probably, to a large admixture of ferruginous dolomite, 

 but the serpentine gone entirely, save a little pulverulent oxide 

 of iron ; the cavities were nearly all lenticular in shape, but too 

 regular to be other than matrices of cr^'stals, while in two cases 

 distinct cruciform cavities with anoles of about 60° were ob- 

 served. The portions of rock containing these were cut out, and 

 in one of them lead was poured, and a cast obtained, which, while 

 irregular and rough, was a fac-simile in metal of the common 

 cruciform twins of staurolite. Portions of the same rock which 

 had not altered were found containing the serpentine in distinct 

 crystals, irregular in outline, but twinned at angles of about 60°- 



Serjjenfine. — About a half mile above the soapstone quarries 

 on the Schuylkill, occurs a ridge of serpentine which I believe 

 has never been described. Its first appearance is at a slight cut- 

 ting of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad, opposite and a little 

 above Lafayette station on the Norristown Railroad, and just 

 below the vein of granite which crosses the Schuylkill below 

 Spring Mill, and crops out at several points on the elevated hill 

 of gneiss, which crosses the Schuylkill at Spring Mills. About 

 a hundred yards S.W. from the river, it has been cut through by 

 a small stream, and here it has been quarried as a building-stone, 

 and is well exposed. The serpentine is very compact, at times 

 slaty, of a very dark green, almost black, color, unlike that of any 

 other ridge of the neighborhood, and resembling that of the Hartz. 

 Intermixed, and also at the bottom of the quarry on the north- 

 west, is a foliated mineral resembling Schiller spar, or serpen- 

 tine, pseudomorphous after Pyroxene or Hornblende. The ser- 

 pentine dips steeply toward the southeast, and at this point rises 

 probably one hundred and fifty feet above the valley, abruptly 

 and precipitously on the N.W., sloping on the S.E., where talcose 

 and micaceous schists rest against it. About a half mile from 

 the river, the ridge widens, the slopes are more gentle, and, for a 

 short distance, the serpentine is hidden; but it again crops out 

 about one mile from the river, where a road, parallel to the river, 

 crosses the stream which has been mentioned, and which skirts 

 1872.] 




304 PROCEEDINGS OE THE ACADEMY OP 



the ridge on the west. From tliis point it is narrower and well 

 defined for a quarter of a mile to the next road parallel with the 

 Schuylkill. Here the stream seems to have denuded it for about 

 fiffc}'^ yards, and a stream from the east joins that on the west. 

 Beyond this it rises abruptly in a grove of cedars, and then con- 

 tinues, as a narrow, well-defined ridge, to its termination, which 

 is abrupt, about one and three-quarter miles from the Schuylkill. 

 In this part, as also in that between the two roads, it has almost 

 the regularity and appearance of an old railroad embankment. 



Hisingerite, from the Gap Mine, Lancaster County, Pa. Black 

 amorphous; lustre between resinous and vitreous; sti'eak, brown. 

 Fracture conchoidal, brittle H 2^-3 S. G. 2.11. 



Analysis omitting 1.13 per cent, gangue : — 



Water at 212 14.30 



" at redness 9.89 24.19 



Silica 35.40 



FeO 12.53 



Fe^Oj 27.46 



99.58 



In a cutting through decomposed mica shists, on the new line 

 of the Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad, about a 

 half mile southwest of Gray's Ferry, there is a white eflflores- 

 cence, alkaline to the taste. It consists chiefly of sulphate of 

 soda, an nnlooked-for mineral in such location. 



PHiLADELrniA, November 31, 1871. THEO. D. RAND. 



[February 13, 




natural sciences of philadelphia. 305 



December 6. 

 Mr. Tryox in the chair. 



Twenty-three members present. 



The death of Mr. Jas. H. Orne was announced. The death of 

 Sir Koderick J. Murchisou, a correspondent of the Academy, was 

 also announced. 



The following paper was presented for publication : — 



" Descriptions of new Western Palteozoic Fossils, mainly from 

 the Cincinnati Groups of the Lower Silurian Series of Ohio." By 

 F. B. Meek. 



Prof. Cope made some remarks on a peculiar habit recently 

 observed by Alfred R.Wallace, in the Phi'i/nosomas, in the Zoolo- 

 gical Gardens in London. These animals eject from their eyes, 

 in self-defence, a red fluid like blood. On inquiry of Dr. Edw. 

 Palmer, of the Smithsonian Institution, who had spent some 

 years in Arizona, whether he had observed such a habit in any of 

 the species, he handed me the following extract from the "Arizona 

 Miner" of August 20th, 1869:— 



"Dr. Palmer and party got back liere Wednesday evening last, 

 from Bill Williams' Mountain, E. J. Cook, one of the Prescott 

 party that accompanied the expedition, informs us that a [horned] 

 toad was found on the top of the mountain, which, when made mad, 

 spurted blood from its eyes. It was secured by the doctor. The 

 Prescott party did not find game as plenty as the}^ had expected, 

 yet they succeeded in killing one bear, eight or ten turkeys, and 

 a deer. Thej^ say the country is the most beautiful ever seen by 

 them. The valleys are many and large; pine, oak, and other 

 timber covers the entire region, and the grass was waist-high. 

 The region of country- visited by them lies about 60 miles north 

 of this place, on the line of the 35th parallel railroad route." 



This specimen is in the doctor's collection, now in my hands, 

 and belongs to the species Phrynosoma ornatissima, Gird. 



December 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-five members present. 



Notice of some Worms. — Prof Leidy remarked that Prof. Hay- 

 den reports the brook trout, Sabno fontinalis, of the headwaters 



1872.] 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of the Yellowstone River, to be mucli infested with a species of 

 tapeworm. A number of specimens of the worm, collected by 

 C. Carrington, have been submitted to his examination, but, un- 

 fortunately, most of them are so far decomposed as nearly to be 

 reduced to the condition of pulp. The worms are stated to have 

 been taken from the abdominal cavity, but not from the intestinal 

 canal, and often were found beneath the skin, extended among the 

 muscles or inclosed in OA^al sacs. Several cysts preserved entire 

 contained worms in a better condition for examination than the 

 others, and from these the characters of the parasite have been 

 ascertained. It belongs to the old genus Bothrioccphalus^ and 

 to that section now named Dibothrium. Two species of this 

 genus have long been known as infecting the salmon and other 

 members of the same genus of fishes in Europe, but the parasite 

 of the Yellowstone trout appears to be a different one. 



Two of the best preserved specimens measured five inches long 

 by a line wide at the broadest part. The head, about a fourth of 

 a line in diameter, is obcordate. The two suckers or bothria are 

 thick and discoidal, placed back to back, obcordate in outline, and 

 directed with their broad and slightly depressed surface towards 

 the margins of the body. The body is flat, thick, with rounded 

 margins, and is narrowly annulated or segmented. The annula- 

 tions due to muscular bands measure about ten to the line. Seg- 

 ments, independent of the annulations if existing, could not be 

 distinguished, perhaps on account of the badly-preserved condi- 

 tion of the specimens. No genital apertures are visible at the 

 sides nor at the margins. No internal organs are visible, but the 

 soft solid interior tissue is filled with round corpuscles resembling 

 starch granules. These are, however, composed of carbonate of 

 lime, as they are dissolved by acetic acid with an abundant evo- 

 lution of carbonic acid. 



From the form of the head, the worm was named Dibothrium 



CORDICEPS. 



Numerous leeches collected b}^ Prof. Ilayden's assistants, 

 Messrs. Carrington and Dawes, in a lake in Wyoming Territory, 

 appear to belong to the species Aulastomum lacustris, first dis- 

 covered several years ago in Twin Lake, Minnesota.* Mr. Car- 

 rington informs us that the head of a horse, which was thrown 

 into the lake, in a few hours appeared black from the quantity 

 of these leeches which adhered to it. It is barel}^ probable that 

 this leech is the one described b}^ Thomas Say, in Long's Ex- 

 peditions, under the name of Hirudo marmo7-ata, though the 

 characters do not accord with his description of the latter. It 

 is not improbable that the two are quite distinct. H. marmorata, 

 togetlier with another species, H. lateralis, was obtained from 

 small lakes on the high land between Lake Superior and Rainy 



» Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1868, p. 229. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



Lake. Neither of these appears to have been obtamed since their 

 first discovery. 



Several large hair worms from Fish Creek, Montana, pertain to 

 the species Gordius lacutris^ previously described' from speci- 

 mens obtained in Kansas. It is the largest known Gordius. The 

 females of the Kansas specimens ranged from 10 inches to 2^ feet 

 in length ; the males, from 8 inches to upwards of 2 feet. The 

 females of the Montana specimens measure from 1:^ to 2^ feet in 

 length ; a male, 8^ inches in length. The females are pale brown ; 

 the males dark brown, and with a strongly-forked tail. 



December 19. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-one members present. 



December 26. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-five members present. 



The following gentlemen were elected members : — 

 Andrew H. Miller, Dr. A. L. Gihon, U.S.N. 



On favorable report of the committee, the following paper was 

 ordered to be printed : — 



' Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1851, p. 375; 1857, p. 204. Amer. EutomoL, 

 vol. 11., p. 194. 



1872.] 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW WESTERN PALEOZOIC FOSSILS, MAINLY FROM 

 THE CINCINNATI GROUP OF THE LOWER SILURIAN SERIES OF 

 OHIO. 



BY F. B. MEEK. 



Full illustrations and descriptions of the fossils described in 

 this paper are in course of preparation for the report of the Ohio 

 Geological Survey, now being prosecuted under the direction of 

 Prof. J. S. Newberry, the State geologist. 



RADIATA. 

 ECHINODERMATA. 



HETEROCRINUS EXIGUUS, Meek. 



Body small, obconoidal, or tapering from above to the column, 

 near which it becomes pentagonal in consequence of the flattened 

 surface of each of the basal pieces. Sub-basal pieces obsolete, or 

 very minute. Basal pieces (subradials of some) of moderate 

 size, about as wide as long, pentagonal, and almost perfectl}' flat. 

 Left posterior ray bifurcating first on the fifth piece, the first 

 piece being comparatively large and irregularlj^ hexagonal, in 

 consequence of having a short sloping side on its upper right edge 

 for the reception of one side of the first anal piece ; the four suc- 

 ceeding pieces much narrower, about as long as Avide, and rounded, 

 and more or less constricted in the middle, with expanded upper 

 and lower ends. Right posterior ray bifurcating first on the 

 eighth piece, the first piece being decidedly smaller than that of 

 the left posterior ra}-, pentagonal in form, and slightly longer 

 than wide ; while the second is of the same breadth but shorter, 

 rounded on the dorsal side, and irregularly pentagonal in form, 

 the fifth angle being formed by a short side on the left above, for 

 the reception of the first anal piece ; succeeding pieces about as 

 long as wide or slightly longer, rounded and constricted in the 

 middle, and expanded at the ends. Right anterior lateral ray bi- 

 furcating first on the sixth piece, the first piece being distinctly 

 larger than the others, apparently a little longer than wide, and 

 subpentagonal in form ; while those above are smaller, and of the 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



same form as the corresponding pieces of the other raj's described. 

 (Other rays unknown.) Arms very long, slender, and bifurcating 

 at least four times at irregular distances above the first divisions 

 of the raj^s ; pieces of the lower divisions generally longer than 

 wide, rounded and constricted in the middle, and expanded at the 

 ends ; while those of the smaller terminal divisions are usually 

 from three to four or five times as long as wide, and scarcely ex- 

 panded at the ends. Surface smooth. Finnulse not seen. 



First anal piece small, about as long as wide, and, as usual, 

 resting between the superior sloping sides of the first radial on 

 the left, and the second on the right, and bearing three or more 

 others, in direct succession above, that doubtless form a part of 

 the walls of the ventral extension. 



Column small, distinctly pentagonal near the base, where it is 

 composed of alternately thin and slightly thicker pieces. 



Length of body, to top of the larger radial pieces forming a 

 part of its walls, 0.14 inch; breadth, about 0.12 inch; length of 

 rays and arms above the bod}', 1 inch ; thickness of column near 

 base, about O.OT inch. 



At the same time that I propose to name and describe this deli- 

 cate little Crinoid as a new species, I suspect that it may not be 

 distinct from H. exilis of Hall, which has not yet been illustrated, 

 and has, unfortunately^, been only briefly described. If Prof. 

 Hall's description is strictly accurate, however, in several impor- 

 tant characters, the form under consideration must be clearly 

 distinct, as he states that the posterior lateral rays of H. exilis 

 bifurcate on the second pieces, and the anterior lateral on the 

 fourth; while, in the form here described, one of the posterior 

 lateral ra^-s bifurcates first on the Jifth piece, and the other on 

 the eighth; and, in the only one of its anterior lateral rays seen, 

 the first division takes place on the sixth or seventh piece. He 

 also says that the arms of H. exilis bifurcate once or twice, while 

 in our t^'pe they bifurcate at least four times above the primary 

 division of each ray. Again, he describes the bod}'' plates of if. 

 exilis as having the general curve of the body; but in our tj'pe 

 the subradial plates are so flattened as to impart a pentagonal 

 form to the lower part of the bod}'. 



This species will be at once distinguished from H. simplex, by 

 its frequently bifurcating arms and other well-marked characters. 

 From H. heterodactylus, which also has its arms several times 



18T2.] PART TIL— 21 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



divided, it will be readily distinguished by its very differently 

 formed body, its more slender and more frequently divided as 

 well as longer arms, and its more slender column. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group, 100 feet below tops 

 of hills, at Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Dyer's collection. 



HETEEOCRINUS SUBCRASSUS, M. k W. 



Heterocrinns saber assus, Meek & Wortheu, 1865. Proceed. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Pliilad., p. 145; Illinois Report, vol. III., p. 325, pi. 4, fig. 5, a, 



b, c, d. 



Heterocrinus (locrinus) polyxo, Hall, 1866?. Descriptions of some new 



species of Crinoidea and other fossils, from the Silurian Strata, etc., 



p. 5 ; dated, Nov. 1866. 



A careful comparison shows the proposed species H. pohjxo^ 

 Hall, 1866?, to be in all respects identical with H. subcrassus, M. 

 & W., 1865. Prof. Hall places it under a subgenus locrinus, and, 

 if there be sufficient grounds for so doing, the name of the spe- 

 cies, when written in full, would be Heterocrinus {locrinus) 

 subcrassus. 



POTERIOCRINITES (DENDEOCRINUS) DYERI, Meek. 



Body small, obconic, or tapering regularly to the column from 

 above. Basal pieces longer than wide, the greatest breadth being 

 across between the superior lateral angles ; all pentagonal. Sub- 

 radial pieces a little longer than the basals, longer than wide, andr 

 excepting the one on the anal side (which is largest and hepta- 

 gonal), all hexagonal. First radials of about the size of the sub- 

 radials, but proportionally broader, being a little widei- than long, 

 with a general pentagonal outline, though all, excepting the one 

 on the right of the anal series, have the superior lateral angles a 

 little truncated ; while the second piece in that ray, which, as is 

 usual in the group, corresponds to the first in the other rays, also 

 has these angles truncated. Succeeding radials in all the ra_ys 

 much narrower, about as long as wide, or slightly longer, and 

 numbering from five to six or seven pieces below the first bifurca- 

 tion. Arms remarkably long and slender, laterally compressed, 

 more or less angular on the dorsal side, and giving ofl[', alternately 

 on opposite sides, at distant intervals above the first bifurcation 

 of each ra}^, from three to four or more scarcely diverging divi- 

 sions that are slightly more slender than the arms, from which 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHrA. 311 



they spring, and sometimes tliemselves bifurcate once or twice; 

 divisions composed of pieces about as long as wide. 



First anal piece nearly as large as one of the smaller subradials, 

 resting on the superior truncated edge of the largest heptagonal 

 subradial, between the first radial on the left and the first and 

 second on the right, while it supports others above that form the 

 base of the ventral extension. Interradial pieces with the lowest 

 piece of the ventral part resting between the truncated superior- 

 lateral angles of the first primarj^- radials so as to appear as 

 minute interradials. Surface without costceor sculpturing of any 

 kind. 



Yentral extension ver}' long, or nearly or quite equalling the 

 length of the arms, and as wide as the bod}^ below ; composed of 

 the usual small hexagonal plates apparently without costse, and 

 separated by punctured sutures. Column slender, slightly tapering 

 downward just below the base, near which it is more or less pen- 

 tagonal, and composed of short alternatel}^ thicker and exceed- 

 ingly thin segments. Farther down, it becomes nearly or quite 

 cylindrical, and composed of more uniform very short pieces, 

 with a very small nearly or quite round perforation. 



Length of body, from the lower end of base to the top of first 

 primary radials, 0.24 inch; breadth of do., at top, 0.16 inch; 

 length of rays, from top of body to first bifurcation, 0.20 inch ; 

 length of arms, above this bifurcation, 2.30 inches ; diameter of 

 column, 0.04 to 0.05 inch. 



This delicate little species seems to agree exactly, in structure 

 as well as in physiognoni}^, with Dendroa-inus^ excepting that it 

 appears to have the small pieces forming the lower part of its 

 ventral extension above the first anal piece, and those seen in the 

 interradial spaces above the large first radials that form a part of 

 the walls of the body, connecting laterally with the succeeding 

 smaller radials, nearly or quite up to the first bifurcation. This 

 arrangement, if it really exists, would make these smaller primary 

 radials, above the body proper, as it were, a part of the walls of 

 the body or ventral extension; so that the rays would only become 

 free at the first bifurcation. The specimens seen are not in such 

 condition as to remove all doubts on this point; but, in some con- 

 ditions, these little pieces between the rays give that part of the 

 fossil somewhat the appearance of a Glyptocrinus. The presence 

 of well-developed subradials and a long ventral extension of the 

 1872.] 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



body (to say nothing of other differences), remove it, however, at 

 once from that genus, as well as from Mariacrinus, from which 

 latter it also differs materially in the structure of its arms and in 

 other important characters. I suspect that it may be found to 

 present sufficiently marked differences in this apparent fusing of 

 the rays, as it were, into the walls of the body, up to the first 

 bifurcation, to entitle it to rank as the t3q:)e of a new group ; but, 

 without better specimens for study and examination, I prefer to 

 refer it provisionally to Dendrocrinus, which can scarcely be re- 

 garded as more than subgenerically distinct from Poteriocrinites. 



In general appearance, it seems to resemble most nearly Dendro- 

 crinus acutidactylus and D. gregarius of Billings. It differs from 

 the first, however, in having a more slender body, with propor- 

 tionally longer arms, much less diverging at the bifurcations, 

 as well as in having the two branches at each division unequal. 

 From the latter species it also differs in the nature of its arms, 

 as well as in having its column composed of very short pieces not 

 presenting a bead-like appearance. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian, 

 in the lowest beds seen at Cincinnati, Ohio. The survey is under 

 obligations to Mr. C. B. D^^er, of Cincinnati, for the use of the 

 only known specimens of this species. 



POTERIOCEINITES (DENDROCRINUS) CINCINNATIENSIS, Meek. 



Body of about median size, obconic, or tapering to the column 

 from above, nearly or quite as wide at the top of the first radials 

 as the height to the same. Base forming a rather rapidly ex- 

 panding cup, nearly twice as wide as high. Basal pieces of mo- 

 derate size, wider than high, pentagonal in form, and each provided 

 with a minute notch at the middle of the under side, correspond- 

 ing to a furrow extending up each side of the column. Subradial 

 pieces about twice as large as the basals, as wide as long or slightly 

 wider, all hexagonal excepting the one on the anal side, which is 

 heptagonal and a little larger than the others. First radial piece 

 in the ray on the right of the anal series a little smaller than the 

 subradials, and pentagonal in form, supporting on its upper 

 truncated edge a rather shorter piece, corresponding to the 

 slightly larger first radials in the other rays, and, like the latter, 

 rounded on the outer side, with a pentagonal outline, and a some- 

 what narrowed facet above for the reception of the first free 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 313 



raclials. Succeediug or free radials distinctly narrower than 

 those forming a part of the walls of the body, rounded on the 

 dorsal side, and, in the two posterior latei'al rays, all shorter than 

 wide, while the fifth one in eacli of these rays (other rays un- 

 known) is an axillary piece supporting two arms. 



First anal piece nearly as large as the subradial upon the upper 

 side of which it rests ; connecting on the left with the first radial 

 piece, and on the right with the first and second radials ; while it 

 supports others above, forming the base of the ventral extension, 

 which is composed of small pieces strengthened by radiating ribs. 



Arms of the two posterior rays rounded, composed of pieces 

 slightly wider than long, and each bifurcating at least twice (and 

 perhaps oftener) at unequal distances above their origin on the 

 last primary radial. 



Column of only moderate size for an inch or so below the base, 

 where it is very distinctly pentagonal, the angles being a little 

 rounded, with a rather deep furrow between on each side, com- 

 posed of short pieces, which near the base seem to alternate with 

 much thinner ones. 



Length of body, 0.28 inch ; breadth of same, 0.26 inch ; thickness 

 of column at its junction with the body, 0.09 inch; breadth of free 

 rays below the first bifurcation, O.OT inch. 



So far as the specimens afibrd the means of making a compa- 

 rison, this species would seem to be nearly related to Poteriocrinus 

 gr-acilis of Hall, described in the first vol. of Palaeontology of N". 

 Y., p. 84. His diagram and figure, however, do not show whether 

 that species has two of the primary radials of the right posterior 

 ray included as a part of the walls of the body, as in Denclro- 

 crinus, or whether it has more properly the structure of Homo- 

 crinus. He represents the first anal piece, however, proportionally 

 much smaller than it is in our crinoid, while, to the right, and 

 partly beneath the anal piece, he shows in his diagram a small 

 piece that seems to occupy the position and relations to other 

 parts of the subanal in true typical Poteriocr^nites} His speci- 



1 Prof. Hall also ranges it under Poteriocrinus in his corrected list of the 

 New York Fossils, published in 1859, after he had proposed the genera Ho- 

 mocrimis and Dendrocrinus, and included this form in the former group in 

 1852 ; from which we may infer that his type has more recently been found 

 to possess the structure of Poteriocrinites. In that case, it would of course 



1872.] 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



men had only a segment or two of the column attached ; but an 

 end view of it, in his diagram, represents it as being rounds while 

 in the form under consideration it is very distinctly pentagonal. 

 As he does not nay that it differs in the form of the column from 

 his P. alteyniatus (which has a decidedl}^ round column), in point- 

 ing out the distinctions between the two, I also infer that it is 

 round in both. In addition to this, Poteriocrinites gracilis of 

 Hall is stated by him to be found only at the base of the Tren- 

 ton limestone, while our crinoid is only known to occur in the 

 middle part of the Cincinnati group. From these facts, and from 

 the usual very restricted vertical range of the species of Crinoidea, 

 I infer that our Cincinnati form is specificall}'^ distinct from the 

 I^ew York species. 



Locality and position. — One hundred feet below tops of hills at 

 Cincinnati, Ohio. Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian. Mr. 

 C. B. Dyer's collection. 



POTERIOCRINUS (DENDROCRINUS) POLYDACTYLUS, Shumard (sp.). 



nomocrinus polydactylus, Shumard, 18G7. Trans. Acad. St. Louis, vol. I. 

 p. 78, pi. I. fig. 6. 



An examination of good specimens of this species shows that it 

 has the structure of the bod}' seen in Dendrocrinus^ and that it 

 is related to D. Jeivettii of Billings more nearl^^ than to any 

 other of the species known to the writer. 



This is a ratlier common species in the upper part of the Cin- 

 cinnati group at Richmond, Indiana. 



GLYPTOCRINUS DYERI, Meek. 



Body globular-subturbinate, being wider than high, with sides 

 rounding under to the base. Sub-basal pieces obsolete, or, if pre- 

 sent, not exposed externally. Basal pieces (subradials of some) 

 very small, and projecting as a thin rim below, much wider than 



differ specifically from our crinoid ; but if either a Poteriocrinites proper, or 

 a Dendrocrinus (if we view the latter as only a subgenus oi Poteriocrinites, 

 as Prof. Hall has since done in describing other species), then the name 

 P. gracilis could not stand for the New York fossil, because Prof. McCoy 

 had used that specific name for a species of this genus from the Carbo- 

 niferous rocks in 1844. For this reason, D'Orbigny proposed the name 

 P. subgracilis for the New York species, which will have to be retained if 

 it belongs to any mere section of that genus. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



high, and presenting a trigonal general outline, though the lateral 

 angles are doubtless minutely truncated. First radial pieces of 

 moderate size, heptagonal in form, and wider than long; second 

 and third a little smaller, the second being hexagonal, and the third 

 pentagonal, and supporting on its superior sloping sides the first 

 divisions of the rays. Secpndai-y radial or supraradial series 

 each composed of from eight to eleven pieces, rapidly diminishing 

 in length upward to the second bifurcation or commencement of 

 the arms, just below which a few of the smaller pieces seem to 

 be free and bear pinnulfe on their inner sides; farther down, the 

 second and fourth secondary radials of each ray give off, alter- 

 nately on each side,; small divisions that do not become free, 

 but are soldered into the interradial walls, though they can be 

 traced to the summit of the body, where they merely give origin 

 to pinnules. 



Anal area a little wider than the interradial areas. First anal 

 plate of about the same size as the first radials, hexagonal in 

 form, and supporting in the next range three pieces, arranged with 

 the middle one higher than the others; while, above these, three 

 smaller pieces can be seen arranged in the same way in the third 

 range, and three to four or five in the fourth, which is as far up 

 as they can be traced. The middle plates of this series form a 

 direct vertical row, that have a rather prominent mesial, rounded 

 ridge extending all the way up from the middle of the lowest 

 piece, of about the same size as those passing up the primary and 

 secondary radial series, while the other plates on each side and 

 other parts of the lowest pieces are ornamented with radiating 

 costse of smaller size, like those on the interradial pieces. 



Interradial areas not excavated below, but becoming moderately 

 concave above ; first interradial pieces of about the size of the 

 second primary radials, hexagonal in form, and supporting two 

 other somewhat smaller pieces in tlie next range, that bear between 

 their superior sloping sides a fourth smaller piece, while above 

 these there are two pieces in the next range that connect with 

 the pieces of the little lateral divisions of the secondary radials, 

 and perhaps some other small intercalated pieces filling the upper 

 part of the interradial areas. 



Axillary areas flat, and each occupied below by a hexagonal or 

 heptagonal piece of about the size of the second piece of each 



1872.] 




316 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



secondary radial, while the space above is occupied by several 

 much smaller pieces. 



Arms four to each ray, rounded on the dorsal sides, slender, of 

 moderate length, very gradually tapering, simple, and composed 

 of ver3'' short, slightly wedge-formed pieces, each of which bears 

 a pinnule at its larger inner lateral end; pinnules slender, rather 

 closely arranged, deeply furrowed on the inner side, and appa- 

 rently composed of rather long joints. 



Surface of body plates all ornamented with distinct radiating 

 costae, starting from the centre of each piece, and passing one to 

 each of its sides so as to connect with others on each contiguous 

 piece : of these costoe, those passing up the middle of each of the 

 radial series are a little larger and more prominent than those of 

 the interradial plates, while they bifurcate with the rays so as to 

 send a division up each of the secondary radial series, toward 

 the upper part of which they become more prominent and rounded, 

 beins; there of about the size of the free arms. Column unknown. 



Height of body, 0.60 inch; breadth, about 0.68 inch; length of 

 arms, 1.05 inch; thickness of same, 0.05 inch; number of joints, 

 in a space of 0.10 inch near the base, eight. 



This very beautiful species reminds one, by its sculpturing, of 

 the common typical species G. decadacti/Jus, from which, however, 

 it may be at once distinguished by its proportionally broader and 

 shorter body, with sides rounding regularly under to the column 

 instead of being obconical. It also has proportionally more 

 slender arms, and differs materially in having, in each secondary 

 radial series, from nine to eleven pieces between the first bifurcation 

 of each ray and the arm bases, instead of only two. In the form 

 of its body, it agrees more nearly with G. ornatus of Billings; but 

 it differs materially from tliat species in having twenty arms in- 

 stead of only ten, as well as in less important details. 



The specific name is given in honor of Mr. C. B. Dyer, of Cin- 

 cinnati, Ohio, to whom I am indebted for the use of the very fine 

 specimens from which the description was made out. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian, 

 100 feet below tops of hills at Cincinnati, Ohio. 



GLYPTOCRINUS DYERI, var. SUBGLOBOSTJS, Meek. 



There is, in Mr. Dyer's collection, a specimen showing the whole 

 of the anal side of the body, all the way up, and more or less of 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31*7 



six of the arms, that seems to agree exactly, in structure, orna- 

 mentation, and form, with the last, excepting that its body is not 

 quite so rounded below; and it has a more robust appearance, in 

 consequence of having the ridges up the radial and secondary 

 radial series (particularly the latter), as well as that up the middle 

 row of the anal plates, rather decidedly stouter and more promi- 

 nent. Its arms are also proportionally stouter, and composed of 

 shorter pieces. 



This may be specificall}^ distinct from the last ; but, with the 

 present means of comparison, I prefer to range it provisionally as 

 a variety of the same, under the name Glyptocrinus Dyeri, var. 

 subglobosus. 



Locality and position. — Same as last. 



MOLLUSCA. 



POLYZOA. 



^ PTILODICTYA (STICTOPORA) SHAFFERI, Meek. 



Polyzoum small and delicate, consisting of slender, compressed 

 divisions, that give off on each side rather closely arranged, regu- 

 larly alternating, lateral branches of the same breadth as the 

 main stems, from which they diverge at an angle of about forty 

 degrees ; lateral branches in the same way giving off on each side 

 very short lobe-like, alternating projections ; lateral margins of 

 all parts very narrow, sharp, and minutely striated longitudinally, 

 in well-preserved specimens ; pores apparently without raised 

 margins, more or less oval longitudinally, alternately disposed in 

 longitudinal and oblique rows, so as to present a quincuncial 

 arrangement; the number of longitudinal rows vaiying from five 

 to about seven in the breadth of a stem or branch ; spaces between 

 the pores, measuring transversely to the stems and their divisions, 

 about equal to the breadth of the pores, but greater, measuring 

 in the direction of the oblique and longitudinal rows; all the in- 

 terspaces ornamented, in perfectly preserved specimens, by very 

 minute, more or less waved or flexuous strife. 



Size of entire polyzoum unknown ; breadth of stems and 

 branches, 0.05 inch ; number of pores in 0.05 inch, measuring in 

 the direction of the oblique rows, about 4 to 6, and, in the same 

 space, measuring longitudinally, from 3 to 4. 

 1872.] 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



This very delicate little form will be readily distinguished from 

 the other known Silurian species b}' its small size and peculiar 

 plumose mode of growth, and particularl}' by its very minute 

 strijB between the pores. Sfictopora raripora^ Hall, from the 

 Clinton group of New York, is as delicate a form, but differs ma- 

 terially in its mode of growth, and particularly in its very much 

 less numerous pores. 



The specific name is given in honor of Mr. D. H. Shaffer, of 

 Cincinnati, Ohio, to whom I am indebted for the use of a very 

 fine specimen of it ; I also have good specimens from Mr. Dyer's 

 collection. 



Locality and ]position. — Toward the lower part of the Cincin- 

 nati group of the Lower Silurian at Cincinnati, Ohio. 



BRACHIOPODA. 



RETZIA (TREMATOSPIRA) GRANTJLIFERA, Meek. 

 Shell transversely oval, the length being about four-fifths the 

 breadth, moderately convex, the convexity of the two valves 

 being very nearly equal ; lateral margins rather narrowly rounded 

 in outline ; front and anterior lateral margins broadly rounded, 

 or perhaps the former sometimes straight or slightly sinuous in 

 outline in the middle ; cardinal margin nearly straight on each 

 side, and sloping at an angle of about 140'^ from the beaks to- 

 ward the lateral extremities. Dorsal valve nearly evenly convex, 

 its greatest prominence being perhaps slightly behind the mid- 

 dle ; provided with about tliirteen simple, angular, radiating plica- 

 tions or costse, five of which on the middle are smaller than the 

 others (the middle one being smallest and not continued to the 

 beak), and form together a very low, flattened mesial elevation, 

 scarcely rising above the general convexity ; beak rather strongly 

 incurved. Ventral valve of much the same form as the other, 

 excepting that its beak is somewhat more prominent, perforated,^ 

 and incurved upon that of the other valve ; while two of the 

 middle costse are much smaller than the others, and the first one 

 on each side of these is intermediate in size between the smallest 

 central ones and the largest on the lateral slopes ; these four 



' The immediate point of the beak of the ventral valve seems to be slightly 

 broken in the specimen, though it has the appearance of having been natu- 

 rally perforated before receiving the slightest injury. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



smaller ones being a little depressed so as to form a sliallow 

 mesial sinus that is not continued to the beak. Crossing all of 

 these plications of both valves, are numerous fine lines of growth ; 

 while the entire surface, as seen under a magnifier, is occupied by 

 minute projecting points, like grains of sand; and, between these, 

 a higher magnifying power shows the whole surface to be very 

 minutel}' and regularly punctate. 



Length, 0.37 inch ; breadth, 0.50 inch ; convexity, 0.21 inch. 



Until the distinctions between the genus Befzia, and the pro- 

 posed genus Trematospira (if any exist) are better defined, and 

 the interior of the species here described can be determined, it is 

 not possible to say to which of these groups it most properly 

 belongs. 



Specifically, however, it seems to be closely allied to Trema- 

 tospira gibbosa of Hall, from tlie Hamilton group. Yet it differs, 

 not only in having two to three more plications on each side, but 

 also in having^ five instead of three a little raised to form the 

 mesial fold of the dorsal valve (the middle one being also much 

 smaller), and four depressed to form the mesial sinus (the middle 

 two being much smaller than the others). It so nearly resembles 

 the New York form, however, that I should almost be inclined to 

 suspect that it might be only a variety of the same species, if it 

 were not found at a so much lower horizon. It must be very rare, 

 as I have only heard of the single typical specimen being found. 



Locality and jJositio72. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian; 

 from the basal beds at Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Dyer's collection. 



LAMELLIBRANCHIATA. 



AMBONYCHIA (MEGAPTERA) ALATA, Meek. 



Megapteraa Casei?^ James, 1871. Cat. Fossils of Cincmnati Group (not 

 Meek and Worthen). 



Shell attaining a moderately large size, subtrigonal in general 

 outline, compressed postero-dorsall}^, and more convex in the um- 



' In first proposing the name Megaptera, for tliese great winged species, 

 in 1866, Mr. Worthen and the writer were not aw'are that this name had 

 been previously used by Dr. Gray for a genus of Whales. Naturalists do 

 not agree in regard to the propriety of retaining the same name for different 

 genera or subgenera in such cases. Where the groups belong to the same 

 1812.] 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



bonal and antero-central regions ; umbonal slopes ranging at an an- 

 gle of about fifty degrees below the hinge line, and broadly rounded; 

 hinge line straight, very nearly or quite equalling the greatest an- 

 tero-posterior diameter of the valves, and ranging nearly at right 

 angles to the anterior side of the same ; posterior alation very 

 large, not separated from the swell of the umbonal and central 

 regions by any defined sulcus, sliglitly rounded at its immediate 

 extremity above; posterior margin faintly sinuous for a little 

 below its intersection with the hinge margin above, thence sloping 

 forward and downward, and finally rounding into the regularly 

 rounded base ; anterior side more or less concave, and nearly 

 vertical above, but rounding regularly into the base below ; beaks 

 terminal, rather pointed, rising little above the hinge line, and 

 directed a little obliquel3'^ upward and forward, with more or less 

 inward curvature. 



Surface ornamented by about twenty-four to twenty-eight sim- 

 ple, strong, radiating costie to each valve, that are nearly equal in 

 breadth to the furrows between ; those on the central portions of 

 the valves passing nearly straight from the beaks obliquely to 

 the posterior basal margins, those on the anterior side curving 

 more or less forward below, and those near the cardinal margin 

 curving a little upward behind. Crossing all of these cost8e,and the 

 furrows between, are numerous fine crowded lines, and, at regular 

 distant intervals, a few strongly defined imbricating marks of 

 growth that curve parallel to the basal and posterior margins. 



Height, 2.30 inches ; breadth, 2.20 inches; convexity, about 0.80 

 inch. 



This species was referred b}^ Mr. James, with a mark of doubt, 

 to Megaptera Casei of Meek and Worthen ; but, after a compa- 

 rison of these shells, I can find no reason for doubting that they 



class, nearly all agreo that only the name first given can stand ; but, where 

 they belong to different classes or subkingdoms, some would retniu both 

 names, while others would change the later name, even where one of the 

 genera belongs to a diiferent class, subkingdom, or kingdom of nature. If 

 it should be thought desirable to substitute another name for this group, as 

 typified by 31. Casei and the species here described, I Avould propose to call 

 it Opisthoptera. As yet very little is known in regard to the hinge of these 

 shells ; and consequently we have not the means of determining whether 

 they should be ranged as a subgenus under AmhonyrJiia^ or as a distinct 

 genus, though I at present incline to the former opinion. 



[February 13, 



1 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



are really distinct specificallj^, the 31. Casei being marked by 

 very numerous alternating larger and smaller radiating strife, 

 ■while M. alata is ornamented with large, strong radiating ribs. 

 M. Casei also differs in having its unibonal slopes distinctl}^ an- 

 gular, instead of broadly and evenly rounded, as in the species 

 under consideration ; while its ventral margin is angular in out- 

 line, at the termination of the umbonal ridge, instead of being 

 rounded. Its marks of growth also show that the extremity of its 

 wing was ratlier acutely pointed, instead of being a little rounded. 

 Locality and position. — Clinton County, Ohio, in upper part of 

 the Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian. Mr. James's collec- 

 tion. 



MEGAMBONIA JAMESI, Meek. 



Megambonia? Spinneri? James, 1871. Cat. Fossils Cincinnati Group, p. 12. 

 (Not if. Spinneri, Hall.) 



Shell attaining a rather large size, a little obliquely subovate 

 in general form, rather convex, the most gibbous part being some- 

 what above and in front of the middle, more or less abruptly 

 cuneate posteriorly and below ; basal outline regularly rounded ; 

 posterior margin rounding into the base, and ascending with a 

 convex curve and forward inclination to the posterior extremity 

 of the hinge, which is not in the slightest degree alate ; anterior 

 margin rounding into the base below, and slightly sinuous under 

 the lobe-like protuberance, or rudimentary wing above, which is 

 convex, slightly more prominent than the margin below, and de- 

 fined from the swell of the umbonal regions on each side, by an 

 oblique sulcus extending to the hinge margin in front of each 

 beak ; hinge equalling about two-thirds the antero-posterior dia- 

 meter of the valves ; beaks rather prominent, or rising distinctly 

 above the hinge line, but slightly oblique, and distinctly incurved; 

 umbonal slopes broadly rounded; longer axis of the valves mode- 

 rately oblique to the hinge line. Surface ornamented by very 

 regular, rounded, simple, and depressed radiating costje, a little 

 wider than the furrows between, and numbering about five in a 

 space of 0.30 inch, near the middle of the lower margin. 



Height, about 2.05 inches ; antero-posterior diameter, 2.1 6 inches; 

 convexity, 1.50 inch. 



The only specimen of this species I have seen is a cast of the 

 exterior, with portions of the ventral and anterior ventral mar- 

 18t2.] 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



gins broken awa3^ The beak of its right valve projects rather 

 decidedly above that of the left; but I think this is due to acci- 

 dental displacement of the valves, rather than to any inequality 

 in their size. It shows distinct indications of a well-defined, mo- 

 derately wide cardinal area, widest under the beaks, and narrow- 

 ing to the extremities of the hinge. 



Mr. James referred this species, in his list of the Cincinnati 

 fossils, with a mark of doubt, to the Lower Helderberg species, 

 31. Sinnneri of Hall. But, in addition to the rather widely dif- 

 ferent o-eoloofical horizons from which these two shells were ob- 

 taiued, they seem to me to ditfer so materially in form as to be 

 clearly distinct species, even if similarly marked, while the typi- 

 cal specimen of M. Spinneri shows no traces of the regular 

 radiating costre seen on the species here described. It is true 

 that the specimen of that species figured is an internal cast, and 

 ours a cast of the exterior, which might account for the difference 

 of surface characters, but this would not produce the degree of 

 difterence in form, obliquity, and general physiognomy. To me, it 

 appears to be much more nearly like the typical species M. carclii- 

 formis, from the New York Upper Helderberg limestone, though 

 clearly distinct in having much larger costse as well as a wider 

 and more defined cardinal area. 



The group Ifegambonia of Hall, 1859, seems, so far as 3^et 

 known, scared}' more than subgenerically distinct from the typi- 

 cal forms of Gyp7'icardifes ; and Mr. Billings thinks it exacth'" 

 agrees with the group for which he proposed the name Va7ii(xe- 

 mia, in 1855, and placed as a subgenus under his genus Cyrtodonta, 

 1858, a species of which is the type of Conrad's Gypricai'dites, 

 ISil. If the name Vanuxeniia should be retained for the type 

 under consideration, and that group placed as a subgenus, then 

 the name of our fossil, when written in full, would be Gypricar- 

 dites (Vanuxemia) Jamesi ; but, if Megamhonia is distinct from 

 Vanuxemia, and a subgenus under Gypricardites^ then its full 

 name would be Gypriccu^dites {Megamhonia) Jamesi. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian, 

 at Cincinnati, Ohio, about 350 feet above low-water mark of the 

 Ohio. Collection of Mr. U. P. James's, in honor of whom the 

 species is named. 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



SEDGWICKIA? FRAGILIS, Meek. 

 Shell rather small, apparentl}' very thin, loiigitiulinally oblong 

 or siiboval, rather distinctly convex along the umbonal slopes 

 from the beaks toward the posterior basal margin, and down 

 near the anterior side, while just under the beaks a rather strongly 

 marked impression descends, widening and deepening as it ap- 

 proaches the base; basal margin subparallel in its general outline 

 to the dorsal, but diverging more or less posteriorly, where it is 

 most prominent and distinctly sinuons toward the front; poste. 

 rior margin wider than the anterior, and more or less truncated ; 

 anterior extremit}'' ver}' short, and rounded or somewhat trun- 

 cated ; hinge line straight, and shorter tlian the entire length of 

 the valves, apparently very slightly inflected behind the beaks, 

 which are raised a little above the cardinal margin, incurved, 

 contiguous, flattened on the outer sides, and placed near the an- 

 terior end, with a slight forward inclination. Surface ornamented 

 with moderately distinct lines and irregular minute wrinkles of 

 growth. 



The only specimens of this species yet known to me are too 

 imperfect to afford exact measurement, though they seem to have 

 been, when entire and undistorted, about 0.90 inch in length, 0.t3 

 inch in height, and 0.40 inch in convexity. They present some ap- 

 pearance of having been gaping behind and in the anterior ventral 

 region. One specimen looks as if it had been truncated, with a 

 backward obliquity from below upward behind, but this may be 

 due to distortion. 



I am far from being satisfied that this shell is congeneric with 

 the forms for which Prof. McCoy proposed the name Sedgivickia, 

 as nothing can be determined from the specimens yet known, in 

 regard to its hinge and muscular and pallial impressions. Pos- 

 sibl}^ it would be nearer right to call it ModiolopaiH fragilis; but 

 there is something in its physiognomy that suggests affinities to 

 Carboniferous types referred to Sedgwickia and Allorisma. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian, 

 at about 350 feet above low-water mark of the Ohio River, at 

 Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. U. P. James's collection. 



1872.] 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



SEDGWICKIA? COMPRESSA, Meek. 



Anatina simiata, James, 1871. Catalogue Fossils Cincinnati Group, p. 12. 

 (Not Anatina? simiata, Hall.) 



Shell longitudinally oval, compressed, about one-fourth longer 

 than high, cuneate posteriori)^, and more convex in the central 

 and anterior regions, with a slight concavity descending from the 

 beak to the base of each valve ; posterior margin regularly rounded ; 

 base straight, and parallel to the cardinal margin in the middle, 

 and rounding up to the anterior and posterior margins; anterior 

 side short, rounded or somewhat truncated, but apparently most 

 prominent below ; hinge line shorter than the valves, straight 

 behind the beaks, but rounding into the posterior margin at the 

 extremit}^, erect behind, with some appearance of a narrow space 

 for an external ligament farther forward ; beaks about one-fourth 

 the length of the valves from the anterior margin, raised a little 

 above the cardinal margin, nearly contiguous, but not much in- 

 curved. Surface of a cast, that seems to be a little weathered or 

 smoothed by attrition, showing obscure marks of growth. 



Length, 0.77 inch; height, 0.59 inch; convexity, 0.29 inch. . 



I have only seen a single specimen of this species ; and, as it is 

 a mere cast, not showing clearly even the surface markings, little 

 can be said in regard to its affinities. I am even left in some 

 doubts whether its shorter side may not be the posterior instead 

 of the anterior, as there is some appearance about the points of 

 the beaks of their being rather directed toward the longer than 

 toward the shorter side. The appearance, however, of a narrow 

 space along the cardinal margin on the longer side, as if for an 

 external ligament, seems to indicate that this is the posterior. 

 The margins of the valves on the anterior? (shorter) side are a 

 little defective above in the specimen, so as to leave room for 

 some doubts whether it was regularly rounded in outline or not. 



Although the specimens of the last-described species are much 

 distorted, it is evident, I think, that they are quite distinct from 

 this, as it would seem impossible to make this shell assume the 

 shape and convexit}'- of the last by any conceivable degree of 

 distortion. 



Mr. James referred this species, in his list, to the Upper Silu- 

 rian form Anatinaf simiata, Hall, which it resembles in form- 

 Still, it seems to me to differ too much in its more elevated beaks, 



[February 13, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. * 325 



shorter anterior, and straighter basal outline, to be referred to 

 that species, even if found in rocks of the same age, while the 

 rather wide interval between the horizons at which the two forms 

 occur, renders it still more improbable that the}^ belong to the 

 same species. 



It is extremely difficult to arrive at correct conclusions in re. 

 gard to the generic affinities of such shells, from the stud}^ of 

 mere casts, and it is, therefore, only provisional!}^ that I have 

 referred this and the last-described species to the genus Sedg- 

 ivickia. We may rest quite well assured, however, that paloeozoic 

 forms of the kind cannot be properly referred to the existing 

 genus Anatina. 



Locality and position Same as last. Mr. James's collection. 



SEDGWICKIA (GRAMMYSIA?) NEGLECTA, Meek. 



Shell transversely ovate, about one-third longer than high, 

 rather distinctly compressed, most convex and most elevated in 

 the central and umbonal regions, and compressed-cuneate behind ; 

 anterior margin rounding from the lower end of the lunule into 

 the base, which forms a nearly semi-oval curve, its most promi- 

 nent part being near the middle ; cardinal margin apparently 

 straight, and declining posteriorly from the beaks ; posterior 

 margin rather narrowly rounded ; beaks moderately prominent, 

 and scarcely one-third the length of the valves from the anterior 

 margin. Surface ornamented with regular, distinct, but not very 

 prominent concentric costffi, tliat become suddenh' obsolete on 

 the posterior third of the valves. Lunule narrow, but sharply 

 defined. 



Length, about 1.04 inch; height, 0.67 inch; convexity, about 

 0.35 inch. 



The only specimen of this species I have seen is an external 

 cast of the right valve, which has evidently been, to some extent, 

 accidentally compressed in the region of the beak, but the shell was 

 certainly never ver}'^ convex. It has almost exactly the general 

 aspect and kind of ornamentation seen in the t3'pical forms of 

 Sedgivickia, a group which, since it was first proposed bj' Prof. 

 McCoy, has been included bj^ him in his genus Leptodomus, which 

 seems to me to have been originally founded on a very distinct 

 type. 



Our shell also resembles. rather closely some forms apparently 



1872.] PART TIL— 22 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



falling into the genus Grammysia. That is, some of the species 

 presenting the aspect of that genus, excepting that the^^ want the 

 characteristic oblique ridge of the typical species. Until other 

 specimens can be examined, and more is known in regard to the 

 hinges of Grammysia and Sedgwickia, as well as that of the shell 

 under consideration, its generic relations cannot be satisfactorily 

 determined. 



Locality and position. — Upper part of the Cincinnati group of 

 the Lower Silurian, in Clinton County, Ohio. Mr. James's col- 

 lection. 



DOLABEA? CARINATA, Meek. 



Shell small, rhombic-cordate, very convex along the oblique 

 umbonal slopes, posterior margin apparently obliquely truncated; 

 posterior basal extremity more or less angular in outline ; basal 

 margin rounding and ascending obliquely forward from the pos- 

 terior basal angle ; anterior side extremely short, or with its mar- 

 gin descending and curving backward into the base from immedi- 

 ately in front of the beaks ; hinge line short, and a little inflected 

 so as to form a kind of small area or escutcheon behind the beaks; 

 beaks prominent, rather oblique, nearly terminal, strongly incurved 

 or subspiral, and distinctly compressed antero-posteriorly so as 

 to be sharply keeled on top, the keel being continued as a less 

 angular umbonal ridge backward and downward to the posterior 

 basal extremity; flanks in front of the umbonal ridge evenly 

 convex, while the space above and behind it, near the beaks, is 

 somewhat concave. Surface only showing obscure traces of lines 

 of growth. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 



Length, measuring obliquely from the posterior basal angle to 

 the most prominent part of the umbonal keels, 0.65 inch ; antero- 

 posterior diameter, measui'ing parallel to the hinge line (the speci- 

 men being defective behind), 0.40 inch ; convexity of the united 

 valves, 0.50 inch; length of hinge, about 0.30 inch. 



The only specimen of this species I have seen has lost, by ero- 

 sion, some portions of the posterior margin, so as to leave doubts 

 in regard to its exact outline, though it has the api^earance of 

 having been, when entire, more or less truncated behind. The 

 most remarkable features of the species are its prominent sub- 

 spiral, and very strongly carinated beaks, short hinge, and nearly 

 obsolete anterior side. Its front margins seem to have been a 



[March 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



little gaping; and the posterior side maj'- have been more or less 

 so, though the specimen is not in a condition to show whether 

 this was the case or not. 



Although I refer this shell, for the present, provisionally, to 

 Dolahra of McCoy, I really have very little idea that it properly 

 belongs to that genus (as typified by Cucullaea angustata of 

 Phillips), to which I have in some other cases referred similar 

 shells, the generic relations of which could not be determined. 

 On the contrary, I strongly suspect that it will hereafter be found 

 necessary to establish a new genus for such forms, when specimens 

 showing the hinge can be examined. If so, I would propose for 

 the group the name Bhxjnchoirojns, in allusion to the sharply 

 carinated character of the beaks in the typical form now under 

 consideration. The group, whatever name may be retained for 

 it, evidently includes Dolahra"? Sterling ensia of Meek and Worthen. 



Specifically, the form under consideration will be distinguished 

 from Z).? Sterlingensis by its much smaller size, and more spiral 

 and much more sharply keeled beaks, as well as by its shorter 

 anterior margin. It must be ver}^ rare, as I have only seen among 

 all the collections the single tj'pical specimen. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group, about 175 feet below 

 tops of hills at Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Dyer's collection. 



CARDIOMORPHA" OBLIQU ATA, Meek. 



Shell small, rhombic-cordate, very convex, higher than long ; 

 posterior margin sloping rather abruptly, and subtruncate, or a 

 little convex in outline from the posterior extremity'' of the hinge 

 to the posterior basal extremity, which is more or less angular, 

 or narrowly rounded ; basal margin short, nearly straight or a 

 little convex from the posterior basal extremity to the front ; an- 

 terior margin short or truncated from immediately in front of 

 the beaks obliquely downward and backward to the base, which 

 it joins at an obtuse, slightly rounded angle ; binge line very short, 

 ranging at an angle of about fifty degrees to the umbonal axis, 

 and apparently having its margins a little inflected behind the 

 beaks; beaks very prominent, oblique, nearly or quite terminal, 

 and strongly incurved ; posterior umbonal slopes subangular near 

 the points of the beaks, but becoming rounded below, while the 

 dorsal region between this and the hinge is a little concave; an- 

 terior umbonal slopes, forming a kind of ridge that extends, at 

 1872.] 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



something less than a right angle to the hinge, to the anterior 

 basal margin, the anterior side, thus circumscribed, being some- 

 what flattened, and, as seen from the front, presenting a cordate 

 outline. Surface ornamented with small, very regular, simple 

 concentric costa?, that seem to be obsolete on the anterior and 

 posterior portions of the valves. (Hinge and interior unknown.) 



Length, parallel to the cardinal margin, about 0.45 inch; height, 

 at right angles to hinge, to the tops of the beaks, about 0.45 inch; 

 length, measuring from the points of the beaks obliquely to the 

 posterior basal extremity, 0.57 inch ; convexitj^, 0.39 inch, 



I have referred this shell provisionally to Cardio'mor2oha, rather 

 because it seems to present at least as many external points of 

 resemblance to some species of that genus as to any known palaeo- 

 zoic group, than from any strong impression that it reall}^ belongs 

 to the same. In some respects, its general physiognomy suggests 

 affinities to the group of secondary shells for which Prof. Agassiz 

 proposed the name Ceromya, though I do not think it would fall 

 into that genus. When all of its characters can be determined, 

 it will probabl}' be found to belong to an undescribed genus. If 

 so, I would propose for the group the name Ceromyopsis^ from its 

 resemblance to some species of Ceromya. 



Although presenting some points of resemblance to the last- 

 described species, this shell maj- be distinguished at a glance, not 

 only by its small distinct concentric costje, but by its much less 

 sharply carinated beaks, and more rounded posterior umbonal 

 slopes, as well as by its flattened anterior side; this flattening 

 imparts a subangular character to its anterior umbonal slopes, 

 not seen in the last. 



Locality and 2Wsition. — Cincinnati group of the Lower Silurian 

 in same bed as the last at Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Dj'er's collec- 

 tion. 



GASTEROPODA. 



MACROCHEILUS KLIPPARTI, Meek. 

 Shell a,ttaining a large size, elongate-fusiform, the length being 

 sometimes from two and a half to three times the breadth ; spire 

 pointed at the apex, forming about half the entire length, with 

 its lateral slopes concave above and convex below ; volutions six 

 to eight or nine, the upper five or six being very compactl3' coiled, 

 and forming comparatively but a small part of the entire shell, 



[March 19, 



I 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



while those below suddenly increase in size much more rapidly 

 than the others, particularly in the direction of the longer axis of 

 the shell, and form most of its bulk: these laro-er turns, in laro-e 

 adult examples, sometimes assuming together a subcylindrical 

 outline ; the last or body whorl comparativel3^ long"? subcylindrical 

 or more or less oval, and somewhat produced below; suture 

 moderately distinct, almost transverse between the smaller upper 

 turns, but becoming decidedly' more oblique below; aperture com- 

 paratively small and narrow, apparently' snbrhombic ; inner lip 

 much thickened all the way up ; columella twisted so as to form 

 a single prominent fold below the middle of the aperture. Surface 

 nearly smooth, or onl^- showing verj- obscure lines of growth. 

 (Outer lip unknown.) 



Length of one of the largest, most elongated specimens, 2.23 

 inches ; breadth, O.St inch ; length of aperture, about 1 inch. 



This fine species most nearlj- resembles M. Nevoherryioi Stevens, 

 but may be readily distinguished b}' its form, the slopes of the 

 upper part of its spire being distinctly concave, and the lower 

 part convex in outline, instead of being evenly' and moderately 

 convex all the way down. This peculiarity is caused by the sudden 

 enlargement of the middle and lower volutions, and the greater 

 obliquity of their spiral curve ; while, in M. Neiuherryi^ the volu- 

 tions increase in size regularly, and have the same uniform spiral 

 curve from the apex throughout the whole length of the spire. 

 Young examples of the form under consideration are proportion- 

 atel}^ shorter, the elongation being to a considerable extent pro- 

 duced by the obliquity and prolongation of the last two volutions. 

 These less elongated younger shells, however, will be distinguished 

 from M. Newherryi by the concave slopes of their spires, and the 

 greater proportional breadth of their body volutions. This is also 

 a larger and more robust species than M. Newherryi. 



As none of the specimens yet seen have the outer lip and 

 lower part of the aperture entire, the form of the aperture cannot 

 be made out; and there may even be room for some little doubt 

 whether or not it is, in perfect examples, narrowed and produced 

 into a canal below. If this is the case, the name of the species 

 should be Solenii^cus Klipparti, as it appears to present very 

 nearly the other characters of the type of that group. 



The specific name is given in honor of John H. Klippart, Esq., 

 .of Columbus, Ohio, Secretary' of the State Agricultural Society, 

 18t2.] 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



and one of the assistant geologists of the Ohio Survey, who dis- 

 covered the specimens from which the foregoing description was 

 made out. 



Locality and position. — Base of Coal-measures, near Somerset, 

 Perry County, Ohio. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



ORTHOCEEAS ORTONI, Meek. 



Shell rather rapidly expanding from the posterior toward the 

 aperture ; section oval or more or less nearly circular ; septa 

 rather closely arranged ; siphuncle lateral, being at one of the 

 narrow ends of the compressed section, but not quite marginal, 

 of comparatively moderate size, and apparently beaded ; surface 

 of cast showing traces of regular, obscure, longitudinal ridges, 

 that would probably not have been defined on the exterior of the 

 shell, which is unknown. 



I have seen but two specimens of this species, and they are 

 accidentally compressed, and incomplete at both extremities. The 

 more nearly complete one of these specimens is about 2.30 inches 

 in length, and septate throughout. At the larger end, it measures 

 about 1.3T inches in breadth, and only 0.44 inch in its smallest 

 diameter; while, at the smaller end, its greater diameter is 0.38 

 inch, and its smaller 0.24 inch. It has manifestly, however, been 

 accidentally compressed, more strongly at the larger end, which 

 gives the appearance of more rapid expansion toward the aper- 

 ture than the natural form. The septa near the larger end are 

 separated by spaces measuring 0.15 inch, and at the smaller end 

 measuring 0.0*7 inch. At the larger end, the very obscure longi- 

 tudinal ridges measure each about 0.05 inch in breadth, with fur- 

 rows of the same breadth between, and both diminish propor- 

 tionally in size, and become nearly obsolete toward the smaller end. 



Tills species evidently belongs to the section of the genus con- 

 sisting of rather rapidly expanding shells, with a nearly marginal 

 siphuncle, sometimes showing faint longitudinal ridges on the in- 

 ternal cast, that are not defined on the external surface ; such, for 

 instance, as 0. comjnilsiim, O. robustum, 0. indocile, &c. &c., of 

 Bai'rande. It resembles several of Dr. Barrande's Bohemian 

 species of this type ; but, after repeated comparisons, I have been 

 unable to identify it with any of the numerous species described 



[March 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



by him ; and it seems to be equally distinct from all of those de- 

 scribed in this country and Canada. 



The specific name is given in honor of Prof. Edward Orton, of 

 the Ohio Geological Survey. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group, at Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 Mr. Dyer's collection. 



ARTICULATA. 

 CRUSTACEA, 



CYTHERE CINCINNATIENSIS, Meek. 



Carapace-valves varying from transversely suboval to subcir- 

 cular ; moderately and rather evenly convex, the gx'eatest convex- 

 ity being in the central and anterior regions ; without any visible 

 tubercle or nodes ; ventral margins rounded or semioval, and 

 but slightly unequal or thickened ; anterior and posterior margins 

 more or less rounded, the former being more broadly rounded 

 generally than the latter ; hinge margin very short, very slightly 

 sinuous just behind the umbones, and rounding into the posterior 

 margin so as scarcely to produce any visible angularity ; umbones, 

 near the anterior, a little tumid, rising very slightly above the 

 hinge, and rounding off regularly into the anterior margin. Sur- 

 face nearly smooth. 



Length of one of the larger nearly circular specimens, 0.21 

 inch; height, 0.17 inch; convexity, 0.11 inch. Length of a smaller 

 more oval specimen, 0.14 inch; height, 0.08 inch; convexity, 0.07 

 inch. 



This species seems to vary a good deal in form, some specimens 

 being, as the above measurements indicate, proportionally higher, 

 and thus presenting a more rounded outline. It is possible that 

 these forms may belong to two distinct species ; but, with the spe- 

 cimens yet accessible for study, I have not felt warranted in sepa- 

 rating them. 



Locality and position. — Cincinnati group, at Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 Mr. Dyer's collection. 



The following interesting Crustacea were discovered by Prof. 

 Frank H. Bradley, of Knoxville, Tennessee, at the base of the 

 Waverley group, at Danville, Kentucky. As the same species 

 will doubtless yet be found at this horizon in Ohio, they are here 



1872.] 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



described along with Oliio fossils, and will be described and illus- 

 trated in the report of the geological survey of that State. 



CEEATIOCAEIS (COLPOCARIS) BRADLEYI, Meek. 



Carapace-valves rhombic-subclliptic, more than twice as long as 

 high, moderately convex; dorsal margins forming a very broad 

 depressed arch from end to end, ventral margin more deeply 

 arched, the most prominent part being near the middle, along 

 which it is abruptly inflected, while its entire length, owing to 

 the obliquity of the posterior end, is shorter than the dorsal 

 margin ; posterior deeply and obliquely sinuous, so as to cause 

 the posterior extremity of the dorsal margin to terminate in an 

 acute, downward curved projection, that extends decidedly farther 

 back tlian the more obtuse termination of the lower margin; an- 

 terior end narrowed, with its margin rounded up from below, so 

 as to connect with the dorsal nearly at right angles above. Sur- 

 face smooth, but showing, under amaguifier, very minute reticulated 

 markings. Ocular spots wanting. 



Length, about 2.75 inches; height, about 1.25 inch. 



This species agrees most nearly in size and form with Ceratio- 

 caris ? sinuatun, Meek and Worthen, from the lower coal-measures 

 of Grundy County, Illinois; and was found b}^ Prof Bradley, 

 enveloped in exactly the same way, in concretions. It differs, 

 however, in being proportionally narrower in its vertical diameter, 

 with the most prominent part of its basal margin more nearly 

 central. The posterior extremity of its dorsal naargiu also differs 

 in being more produced and more pointed, as well as more curved 

 downward ; while that of its lower margin is proportionally 

 shorter, owing to the obliquity of the deep sinus of the posterior 

 end of the valves. The C? si7iuatus, however, belongs evidently 

 to the same group. 



On first examining this and the following species, I was at once 

 impressed with the general resemblance of the specimens to the 

 genus Ceratiocaris of McCoy. On carefully comparing them, 

 however, with the original typical species of that genus, such as G. 

 solenoides, G. ellipticus, and the more recently described G.ornatus 

 of McCoy, from the Silurian, I observed certain diilerences that 

 led me to doubt the propriety of referring our species to the same 

 group. Consequently, I sent some of the specimens to Prof. 

 Dana, of New Haven, for examination, and he writes that both 



[xAIarch 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 333 



Dr. S. I. Smith, of that city, and himself, concur in the opinion 

 that they do not properlj- belong to the same genus as the typical 

 forms of Ceratiocaris. 



The differences to which I have alluded consist, first, in the 

 form of the carapace-valves, which, instead of being truncated, with 

 a uearl}^ straight outline from below forward and upward, are 

 truncated from above forward and downward, with a j)rofoundly 

 sinuous outline, the sinus being directed forward and upAvard, 

 while the posterior extremity of the dorsal margin is produced, 

 pointed, and curved downward. Again, they show a peculiar 

 flexure of the ventral margin, so as to form a kind of linear 

 carina. In the species Bt^adleyi, this margin is always inflected 

 along this line, at an acute angle inward and upward ; while in 

 the species elytroides, it is less strongly deflected, though the 

 linear carina is equally well defined, and sometimes minutely 

 crenated. This species also shows another minutely crenated, 

 obscurely defined carina below the dorsal margin, and would 

 therefore bear some resemblance to Dithyrocaris, in this respects 

 but otherwise, particularl}' in form, its carapace-valves are quite 

 different from those of that type. 



It is also worthy of note, that none of the several specimens 

 of these species show any traces of the ocular spot or tubercle, 

 constantly seen in the typical species of Ceratiocaris; and that 

 the}^ show a clean, smooth outline to the dorsal mai'gins of the 

 carapace-valves, indicating that they were only united hy a mem- 

 brane ; while those of Ceratiocaris were supposed by Prof. 

 McCoy to be anchylosed, and rigidly united at a fixed angle 

 along the dorsal margin. 



I have no doubt in regard to the importance of some, if not all, 

 of these points of difterence, but, knowing how slow many geolo- 

 gists (who are generally far behind zoologists in the discrimination 

 of genera) are to accept such divisions, I have merely distinguished 

 these species for the present, as belonging to a subgenus of Cera- 

 tiocaris, under the name ColpocaiHs, in allusion to the sinus of 

 the posterior margin. 



Locality and position. — Base of the Waverley group, at Dan- 

 ville, Kentucky. Prof. Bradley's collection. 



18T2.] 




334 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



CERATIOCARIS (COLPOCARIS) ELYTROIDES, Meek. 

 Carapace-valves narrow-subelliptic, about two and a half to 

 three times as long as high, anterior end narrower than the other, 

 and subangular above ; dorsal margin gently arcuate from end to 

 end, and terminating behind in a pointed projection that extends a 

 little farther backward than the lower margin, and curves distinctly 

 downward ; posterior margin truncated obliquely from above for- 

 ward and downward, and very deeply sinuous, the sinus being 

 directed a little upward and forward ; basal margin most promi- 

 nent near the middle, and behind this straight, or sometimes very 

 faintly sinuous and ascending to the rather obtusely pointed pos- 

 terior basal extremity, while from near the middle forward it 

 ascends gradually, at first with slight convexity of outline, and 

 farther forward with a stronger upward curve, until it intersects 

 the dorsal margin above, at a more or less obtuse angle. Surface 

 writh an obscure linear, sometimes minutely crenate carina, or 

 raised line along near the lower margin, but not exactly parallel 

 to it (being most remote from it along near the middle), and an- 

 other similar but more distinctly crenate carina, running along 

 parallel to, and about one-fifth the height of tlie valves below, 

 the dorsal margin ; otherwise appearing to the unassisted eye as 

 if perfectly smooth, but, when examined in a favorable light, by 

 the aid of the highest power that can be conveniently used as a 

 hand magnifier, seen to be very beautifully and minutely striated, 

 the strise being very regular, closely arranged, and more or less 

 divaricating from the caringe. 



Length of carapace-valves, 1.25 inches; height, 0.46 inch; con- 

 vexity of each valve, 0.09 inch. 



This species may be readily distinguished from the last, not 

 only by its smaller size, but by its narrower form, and its two 

 minutely crenate longitudinal carinse, and particularly by the dif- 

 ferent nature of its microscopical sculpturing, that of the last- 

 described species presenting a delicate reticulated appearance, 

 instead of minute hair-lines. The basal margins of its valves, 

 below the carina, are also only a little deflected inward and down- 

 ward, while in all the specimens of the latter, yet seen, they are 

 abruptly deflected at an acute angle inward and upward. 

 Locality and position. — Same as last. 



[March 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



CEEATIOCARIS (SOLENOCARIS) STRIGATA, Meek. 



Carapace-valves narrow, and elongated, rather convex, with 

 length about four times the height ; dorsal and ventral margins 

 nearly straight and parallel, anterior extremity very narrowly 

 rounded, being most prominent at the middle; posterior end very 

 obliquely truncated from below backward and upward so as to 

 impart a more or less angular or pointed character to the poste- 

 rior dorsal extremity, which, however, is not curved. Surface of 

 internal cast showing rather well-defined mai'ks of growth parallel 

 to the margins ; while moulds of the exterior show impressions 

 of coarse, more or less anastomosing, longitudinal strise, that do 

 not curve exactly parallel to the free margins, particularly of the 

 ends. jSTo ocular spot or tubercle visible. 



Length, 1.24 inch; height, about 0.30 inch; convexity, about 

 0.25 inch. 



I did not submit this form to Professor Dana, but as it differs 

 quite as materially (though in other respects) from Ceratiocaris 

 as those I sent to him do, and as widely, or even more widely, 

 from those I sent than the latter do from Ceratiocaris proper, I 

 have ventured to suggest for it at least a subgeneric name, Soleno- 

 caris. It shows no traces of ocular spots, and merely has the 

 posterior end subtruncated obliquely backward from below, with- 

 out any traces of a sinus. At a first glance, it looks like the 

 valves of a narrow bivalve mollusk ; but its sculpturing is de- 

 cidedly of crustacean type, being like that of some species of Cera- 

 tiocaris. 



Locality and position Same as preceding. 



ARCH.ffiOCARIS VERMIFORMIS, Meek. 



The specimens of this fossil j^et known are too imperfect to be 

 systematically characterized, but they may be described, in a 

 gene^-al way, as follows; the description being intended to apply 

 to a side view of individuals as seen more or less compressed 

 laterally in concretions. 



Cephalothorax or head, about equalling the length of the first 

 three and a half of the bod}^ segments behind it ; subtrigonal in 

 form, being somewhat pointed in front, with the posterior margin 

 wider and obliquely truncated from above backward and down- 

 ward, so as to give more or less angularity to the posterior basal 

 extremity ; basal margin apparently with a kind of ridge or fold 

 1872.] 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



along most of its length, and ascending with a slightly convex 

 outline forward so as to meet the dorsal margin, which is more 

 nearly horizontal, at a rather acute angle in front ; ej'es, if there 

 are any, unknown. Abdomen or body, with the six segments of 

 nearly equal size, and strongly imbricating. Telson apparentl}^ 

 as long as three of the abdominal segments, flattened, of mode- 

 rate breadth anterior!}', and tapering beliind. Stylets not clearly 

 seen, but apparentlj^ one on each side of the telson; other abdo- 

 minal appendages unknown. Surface of all parts smooth. 



Length of head or cephalothorax, from the anterior to the 

 posterior basal extremities, 0.34 inch; height, 0.18 inch; length of 

 the six body or abdominal segments, 0.51 inch; height, 0.16 inch; 

 leng-th of telson unknown. 



In one of the specimens, there is a leg-like appendage, seen in 

 the matrix extending close along under and parallel to the basal 

 margin of the head or cephalothorax. This appendage, or rather 

 what can be seen of it, consists of three joints, two long and one 

 short. The posterior joint, although apparently broken at the 

 posterior end, is 0.13 inch long, and rather stouter than the next 

 in front of it, which is of the same length. The third joint only 

 shows a little of one end, which connects with the anterior end of 

 the forward one of the two longer joints, and is flexed at right 

 angles to the latter, so as to pass under the anterior margin of the 

 cephalothorax. This may possibly be one of the abdominal ap- 

 pendages, bent forward, but it has more the appearance of a stout 

 antenna bent backward. Prof. Dana thinks it most probably the 

 latter. 



In regard to the affinities of this type, not much can be said 

 without better specimens for comparison. Prof. Dana suggests, 

 however, that it may possibly have some relations to the recent 

 genus Cuma. Being unable to find any defined genus to which 

 it can be properly referred, I propose for its reception a new 

 genus, under the name A7'ch8eocaris, in allusion to the ancient 

 period of its existence. 



Locality and positmi. — Same as preceding. 



[March 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



The following reports were read, and referred to tlie Publica- 

 tion Committee : — 



THE LIBRARIAN'S REPORT. 



The Librarian respectfully^ reports that the number of addi- 

 tions to the library from January to December, 1871, inclusive, 

 amounts to 1236. 



Of these 165 were volumes, 1060 pamphlets and parts of peri- 

 odicals, and 11 maps and charts. They were derived from the 

 following sources: — 



Societies 462, Editors 206, Wilson Fund 94, Authors 92, Pub- 

 lishers 00, Dr. H. C. Wood 31, Isaac Lea 28, K^orwegian Govern- 

 ment 18, Secretary of Treasury 15, Geological Survej' of Sweden 

 12, Government of Chile 8, Geological Survey of Italj- 7, Geolo- 

 gical Survej^ of India 5, Thos. Meelian 5, J. B. Lawes 5, Minister 

 of Public Works in France 5, J. S, Newberry 3, T. Guilford 

 Smith 2, Smithsonian Institution 2, Chief of Engineers U.S.A. 

 2, Dep. of Interior 2, Dr. Jos. Leidy 1, Dr. H. C. Chapman 1, 

 Col. Jas. Greer 1, Jos. Jeanes 1, P. P. Carpenter 1, Commis- 

 sioner of Fisheries 1, D. F. Boyd 1. 85 were purchased and 80 

 presented through the Conchological Section. 



These additions were distributed to the different departments 

 of the library as follows: Journals 761, Geology 80, Bibliography 

 92, Entomolog}' 47, History and Statistics 45, Conchology 39, 

 General Natural History 25, Ornithology 11, Ichthyology 9, Phy- 

 sical Science 8, Botany 7, Anatomj' and Physiology' 7, Helmin- 

 thology 7, Agriculture 6, Mineralog}^ 6, Voyages and Travels 2, 

 Medicine 2, Chemistry 1, Mammalogy 1. 251 volumes have been 

 bound. 



During the year the revised and numbered catalogue of the 

 Conchological Department has been completed, and is now in the 

 hands of the binder. 



Thirtj'-two applications for books wanting in the library were 

 made by means of the blanks provided for the use of memliers. 

 Fourteen of the required works have been received, and the others 

 have been ordered. 



Estimating the number of volumes formed by the pamphlets 

 1872.] 




338 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



and periotlicals received during the last two years, the whole 

 number of volumes now in the library is 22,693. 

 All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The donations to the Museum of the Academy during the j'ear 

 are as follows : — 



Vertebrates. — A fine specimen of a Manatee, Manatus laiiros- 

 tris, from St. Domingo, was presented by Mr. William M. Gabb. It 

 has been mounted, and now occupies a place in the museum. We 

 may also state that the Sea lion, Eumetopias Stelleri, from Cali- 

 fornia, presented last year by George Davidson, has also been pre- 

 pared and placed in the museum. 



Mr. B. A. Hoopes presented a hybrid between the domestic 

 Brahma cock and the Guinea fowl, raised by himself. A peculiar 

 variety of the Bernicla canadensis, from Indiana, was presented 

 by Gen. L. E. Yorke,of Cincinnati, Ohio. A parrot and a toucan 

 were presented by Miss LeClair, and a Snow Bunting from Alaska, 

 by S. R. Roberts. 



A collection of fishes, in eighteen jars, from St. Domingo, was 

 presented by William Gabb ; a collection, in eight jars, from the 

 Delaware river, by Dr. C. Arrott, and a Hipx)Ocampus, by W. A. 

 H. Allen, U.S.N. 



3Iiscellaneous Collections. — A collection of reptiles, marine 

 fishes, mollusks, crustaceans, and echinoderms, from the vicinity 

 of Fort Macon, N. C, was presented by Dr. H. C. Yarrow, U.S.A. 

 A second collection, consisting of four bottles of fishes, mollusks, 

 crustaceans, and insects, together with some marine shells, and 

 two skulls of Loggerhead turtles, was presented by the same gen- 

 tleman. 



A collection of five jars of reptiles and fishes, a skeleton of u 

 fish, four species of shells, several corals and echinoderms, eggs 

 of the Alligator, and a case of lepidoptera, from the Isthmus of 

 Darien, were presented by Dr. H. C. Eckstein, U.S.A. 



Invertebrates. — A Scorpion with j'oung, and several spiders 

 from Mexico, were donated by Prof. A. Du Bois ; a large crab, from 

 Alaska, bj^ Dr. John M. Kollick; a small collection of lepidop- 



[March 1 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



tei'a, from Texas, by Dr. G. Lincecum ; and a small collection of 

 coleoptera, by J. R. Willis, of Halifax, N. S. 



The spawn of a mollusk from the Pacific was presented by Dr. 

 Geo. Davidson, and a specimen of Pheronema Grayi, by W. Savillc 

 Kent. 



Osteological, Ethnological, and Miscellaneous Specimens. — A 

 well-preserved mummy from near Ancon, Peru, was presented by 

 Mr. Edm. W. Sartori. Two skulls of Caciques, of the Peguenche 

 tribe, of Chili, were presented by Dr. S. Wier Mitchell. The 

 skull of a Flat-head, from Washington Territory, was presented 

 by Dr. J. M. Kollick. The skull of a Walrus, from Sable Island, 

 N. S., was presented by J. R Willis, of Halifax, N. S. 



The following specimens were also received : A shark's jaws, 

 from Capt. Westcott, U.S.N. ; the dermal covering of a large Alli- 

 gator Gar, from Mr. Swaim ; three ancient stone hammers from 

 the copper region of Keweenaw Pt., L. S.,from Francis R.Abbott; 

 a section of a birch tree, fifteen inches in diameter, cut by beavers, 

 from Keweenaw Pt., L. S., from B. A. Hoopes ; and the fangs of a 

 large Rattlesnake from California, from Prof. A. Du Bois. 



Dr. H. C. Yarrow presented a small collection of shells, bones, 

 and fragments of pottery from ancient shell heaps on Hawkins's 

 Island, N. C. 



Fossils. — Dr. J. Yan A. Carter and Dr. Joseph K. Corson, 

 U.S.A., of Fort Bridger, Wyoming, presented a collection of re- 

 mains of extinct mammals, crocodilians, and chelonians, and some 

 shells, from an early tertiary deposit of Wyoming. These remains 

 pertain to species described during the year in the Proceedings 

 of the Academy. Dr. Showalter presented a large portion of the 

 skeleton, including the skull of Clidastes iguanavus, from the 

 cretaceous formation of Alabama. Dr. Isaac Lea presented a 

 portion of the lower jaw of Rhinoceros tichorhinus, and a molar 

 of Elephas pinmigenius from near Florence, Italy. Mr. S. R. 

 Roberts presented a small collection of mosasauroid remains from 

 Kansas. There were also presented the following : Six fossils, by 

 J. W. Queen ; five by Mrs. R. Hoffman ; two by T. Guilford Smith; 

 three by Thomas Meehan ; two by Dr. H. C. Chapman ; two by 

 Lotta Town ; one by Guy Bryan ; one by C. S. Westcott ; one by 

 C. S. Bement ; one by Mr. Castor ; and one by an unknown donor. 



Plants. — Sixtj^-seven species of Mexican plants were presented 

 by C. Mohr, of Mobile. A collection of plants from the vicinity 

 1872"' 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



of Fort Tejon, Cal., was presented b}' the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. Twenty-three species of African plants were presented by 

 Win. M. Canby. One species was presented by D. P. Rosenmiller 

 and two by C. F. Parker. 



Minerals. — Dr. F. A. Genth presented a huge mass of dog-tooth 

 spar, from Morgan mine, Ken. Alfred Deshong presented four 

 groups of large feldspar crystals from Leiperville, and Jacob 

 Swayne two large crystals of muscovite, from Pennsbury, Pa. 



Of other minerals there were presented, three by W. S. Vaux, 

 two by C. S. Beraent, two by B. S. Lyman, two by I. Lea, two by 

 E. Goldsmith, and one by each of the following: Dr. F. A. Genth, 

 G. A. Nicolls, H. Veeder, T. D. Rand, and W. L. Mactier. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



Joseph Leidy, 

 Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL COMMITTEE. 



To the President and Members of the Academy : — 



During the past year the Committee have devoted themselves to 

 distributing the valuable specimens contained in the various col- 

 lections through the general and the North American Herbariums. 

 In our last report it was stated that owing to the cases being 

 full, and not permitting from their structure any additions, these 

 specimens were temporarily arranged in a supplemental herba- 

 rium. By the consent of the curators these old cases will be 

 abandoned, and simple portfolio cases employed in their stead. 

 This has enabled the Committee to distribute the plants in their 

 proper places in the general herbarium. 



At the beginning of last year the index of the general herba- 

 rium contained the names of 3239 genera. By the labors of the 

 Committee 170 new ones have been added. The work during the 

 next month will be entirely finished. 



Thomas Meehan, /or the Committee. 



The Treasurer's Report was read and referred to the Committee 

 on Finance. 



[March 19, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



RECORDING SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



The Recording Secretaiy would respeclfull}^ report that, during 

 the year ending November 30th, 1811, there have been elected 

 thirty-five members and eight correspondents. 



The announcement has been made of the death of the following 

 members and correspodents: — 



Four members, namely: Dr. Charles M. Wetherill, Benjamin 

 Marshall, William P. Turnbull, Stephen Morris, Esq. 



Six correspondents, namely: Wilhelm Ritter von Haidinger, 

 Prof. E. E. Adams, D.D., F. F.' Cavada, Mr. J. J. Cohen, Prof. 

 Constant Dumeril, Dr. John Edward Holbrook. 



The number of papers contributed and ordered to be printed 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy during the year, has been 

 nineteen, as follows: — 



Prof. F. B. Meek 3 



T. Meehan 1 



Edward D. Cope 2 



Prof. C. Thomas 1 



J. A. Offden 1 



'o^ 



Prof. L. B. Buckley 1 



Robert Ridgway 1 



Elliott Coues, M.D 2 



Prof. A. Newton 1 



Isaac Lea, LL.D 2 



T. Hale Streets 2 ! G. N. Lawrence 1 



Theodore D. Raud .... 1. 



All of which is respectfull}^ submitted, 



Samuel B. Howell, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF RECORDER OF MICROSCOPICAL AND 

 BIOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Extract from the Minutes of the Biological and Microscopical Section at the 

 meeting held December 4th, 1871. 



" The Report of the Recorder being in order, it was called for, 

 and after jcing read was, on motion of Dr. Tyson, adopted and 

 directed to be transmitted to the Academy at its approaching 

 annual meeting, as the Report of the Section," to wit: — 



In accordance with that regulation of the Section which requires 

 the Recorder to lay before you a written report of the transac- 

 tions during the year in our department, I have the honor to sub- 

 mit the following summary of scientific labor accomplished within 

 the past twelve months ; and whilst it is incontestably true that 

 1872.] PART III. — 23 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



this exhibit cannot compare favorably with those of other like 

 periods, it must, I think, be admitted that evidence is thereby 

 afforded of an earnest determination to keep alive some interest 

 in the study of microscopy. 



Valuable donations have been from time to time received from 

 Dr. J. J.Woodward, of the Surgeon-General's Office, at Washing- 

 ton, consisting of specimens of his admirable micro-photographs 

 of histological preparations, test objects from the Diatomaceae, 

 &c. &c. 



Among the more important contributions laid before the de- 

 partment may be mentioned one from Dr. James Tj'son, on a 

 method of demonstrating the reversal of light and shade oc- 

 curring in the red blood-corpuscles under microscopical examina- 

 tion, wiiich was subsequently printed in the Philadelphia Medical 

 Times. One from Dr. J. H. McQuillen, upon a remarkable ex- 

 ample of h3'pertrophy of the root of a tooth, the specimen being 

 first exhibited to the members in its natural state, and its con. 

 struction being afterwards demonstrated b\^ carefully prepared 

 and mounted sections. Another from the same gentleman on im- 

 perfections in the enamel of teeth, producing microscopical fis- 

 sures which constituted predisposing causes of caries, his remarks 

 lieing published in the Medical Times and Dental Cosmos, and 

 subsequently reprinted in the London Microscopical Journal. An 

 interesting contribution (also illustrated by specimens) upon in- 

 termittent hfematuria, from Dr. James Tyson, which likewise ap- 

 peared in the Medical Times, and was republished by various 

 medical periodicals. One from Dr. Tyson, on the existence of 

 true Haversian canals in hypertrophied cementum. Communica- 

 tions from Dr. Tj'son and Dr. Richardson in regard to the use of 

 acetate of potash solution as a preservative fluid for microscopical 

 specimens, and one from the latter observer, on the Detection of 

 Pulmonary Elastic Tissue in the Sputum of Phthisis. 



In conclusion, I would, unless we determine to abandon our 

 efforts, respectfully' urge upon my fellow-members the adoption 

 of the proposed change in our existing arrangement for holding 

 the meetings of the Department, in the hope that by reducing the 

 frequency of our meetings the diminished number of earnest stu- 

 dents of microscopy who remain will be able to present in rota, 

 tion, according to a systematic plan, on each stated meeting, some 

 written or oral communication, illustrated by specimens, which 



[April 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



ma}^ serve as a subject for discussion, and render the proceedings 

 of sufficient value and interest to secure the general attendance of 

 our own members as well as of other scientific men. 



Jos. G. Richardson, Recorder. 



REPORTS OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



RECORDER'S REPORT. 



The Recorder would respectfully report, that during the past 

 3'ear there have been elected three correspondents. 



The deaths of the following members and correspondents have 

 been announced : Charles W. Peale, member, October 5th ; M. de 

 la Saussaye, Bordeaux, correspondent, October 5th ; F. F. Cavada, 

 Cuba. 



Twenty papers have been accepted for publication, by the fol- 

 lowing authors : W. Harper Pease, 6 ; Wm. H. Dall, 4 ; Bland and 

 Binney, 4 ; Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., 3 ; R. E. C. Stearns, 2 ; F. B. 

 Meek, 1. 



Appended is a list of the correspondents elected during 1871. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



S. R. Roberts, Recorder. 



Correspondents elected in 1871 : — 



February 2d. H. E. Van Rijgersma, St. Martins, West Indies. 



" " G. Nevill, Calcutta, India. 



April 6th. Hugh Nevill, Point de Galle, Ceylon. 



CORRESPONDING SECRETARY'S REPORT. 



To the Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 

 Philadelpliia : — 



The Corresponding Secretary would respectfully report that 

 letters have been written as follows, viz. : — 



Feb. 3.— To Hugh Nevill, Galle, Ceylon. 



To Dr. H. E. Van Rijgersma, St. Martins, W. I. 



And letters have been received as follows, viz.: — 



March 14. — From Albany Hancock. 



March 20 From H. E. Van Rijgersma. 



July 15. — From Dr. Fred'k Stolizka. 



Nov. 3 — From New York Lyceum of Natural History. 



Smithsonian Institution, four letters. 

 1872.] 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



Boston Natural History Society. 



Dec. 6. — American Museum Natural History, of New York, 



(Nov. 1.) 



Dec. 6. — H, Cross, Paris, Sept. 20. (Publications sent.) 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



E. R. Beadle, Cor. Secry. 

 Philadelphia, Dec. 7th, 1871. 



LIBEARIAN'S REPORT FOR 1871. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that there have been pre- 

 sented, during the past year, to the library of the Conchological 

 Section, 73 pamphlets and 7 volumes. Of these, 23 were received 

 from Societies, 20 from Editors, 22 from Authors, 5 from the 

 Publication Committee, 2 from Isaac Lea, 2 from George W. 

 Tryon, Jr., 2 from H. Neville, 1 from J. Gwynu Jeffreys, and 8 

 were purchased. 



In addition, 3 volumes and 36 pamphlets have been presented 

 during the same time to the Academy. 



There are now in the Conchological Library 668 volumes. There 

 are 807 titles on the catalogue. 



During the year the transcription of the revised and numbered 

 catalogue of this department has been completed, and is here- 

 with presented. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Librarian. 



CONSERVATOR'S REPORT. 

 The Conservator of the Conchological Section respectfully re- 

 ports that the donations to the Cabinet, during the past year, have 



been as follows: — 



From Rev. E. R. Beadle. Twenty-five species of shells, princi- 

 pally from Ce^'lon. 



P. P. Carpenter. A large lot of duplicate species in exchange 

 for some of the publications of the Section. 



T. A. Conrad. Numerous specimens of Unio viridis, from 

 Trenton, N. J. 



Geo. Davidson. Egg-cases of Chrysodomus liratus, Mar. 



Dr. H. C. EcsTEiN. Three species of Strombus, from Central 

 America. 



[April 9, 




NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



Andrew J, Garrett, of Papeiti, Tahiti. One hundred and fifty- 

 four land, fresh-water, and marine shells of Polynesia, includino- 



types of many new species. 

 S. S. Haldeman. Nauiilus umibilicahis, List. 

 J. GwYNN Jeffreys. Fusus Bernicensis, King ; Lima excavata, 



Chem., and eighteen other species of rare rharine raolluscafrom 



Norway and Great Britain. 

 Dr. Samuel Lewis, through W. L. Mactier. Eggs of Bulimus 



hsemastoma. 

 W. Harper Pease. Thirty-six species of land and marine shells 



from the Pacific Islands. 

 Samuel Powel. Egg-cases of Fusus Islandicus, from Newport, 



R. L 

 J. H. Redfield. Eleven species of Marginella, mostly new to 



the collection ; also twenty species of bivalve mollusca, new to 



the collection. 

 S. R. Roberts. Four species of Clausilia and one species of 



Bulimus, from Greece. 

 T. Hale Streets. Bulimus Powisianus, from Isthmus of Te- 



hauntepec. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Twenty species of bivalve mollusca new to 



the collection. 

 Dr. H. C. Yarrow. Numerous specimens of Lingula pyramidata, 



Stimp.. in alcohol. One hundred and fourteen species of shells 



from Beaufort, N. C. 

 Wm. S. Yaux. Twent3'-seven species of Cyprsea, Ovulum, and 



Solen new to the collection. 



One hundred species, numerous specimens of shells from 

 Panama, including a number of species in alcohol, and fift3^-six 

 species from the coast of Nicaragua were presented bj'^ the sub- 

 scribers to the McNeill Expedition to Central America. 



Eighty-five species of Polynesian mollusca, principall}' new, 

 collected bj- the Godeffroy Natural History Expedition, were pur- 

 chased, together with thirty species of bivalve mollusca, new to 

 the collection, and selected by the Rev. Dr. Beadle during his 

 recent visit to London. 



During the year the Committee on the Arrangement of the 

 Cabinet, consisting of Messrs. Parker, Hassler, Roberts, Tryon, 

 and Nolan, has cleaned, mounted, and labelled 6881 specimens in 



18T2.] 




346 



PROCEEDINGS OF ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 



1898 trays. This includes the Cardiidse, Lucinidae. Ghamidse^ 

 Peti'icolidee, Melanidse, Tridacnidse^ Tet'ebratulidee, North Ameri- 

 can Helices, and Corbiculadse in part. The current additions to 

 the families already arranged have also been mounted and placed 

 in the cases as soon as received. 



The sale of duplicate specimens has furnished sufficient funds 

 for the purchase of about sixty additional drawers, which have 

 been procured and placed in the museum. 



The total number of species mounted and ai'ranged to date is 

 4031 ; number of trays and labels prepared, 7169; total number 

 of specimens prepared and mounted, 20,941. 



All of which is respectfully submitted, 



Edward J. Nolan, Conservator. 



The election of Officers for the ensuing year was held, in ac- 

 cordance with the By-laws, with the following result: — 



President 

 Vice-Presidents 



Recording Secretary 

 Corresponding Secretary 

 Librarian 

 Curators 



Council 



Publication Committee 



Committee on Finance 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Wm. S. Yaux. 

 Jos. Carson, M.D. 



Samuel B. Howell, M.D.' 



Edward D. Cope. 



Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 



Joseph Leidy, M.D. 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr. 

 Edw. D. Cope. 



Isaac Lea. 



Robert Bridges, M.D. 

 Edw. S. Whelen. 

 Isaac Hays, M.D. 



Jos. Leid}^, M.D. 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 

 Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Geo. W. Try on, Jr. 

 Edw. J. Nolan, M.D. 



Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Aubrey H, Smith. 

 Robert Bridges, M.D. 



[April 9, 



i 




ELECTIONS. 347 



ELECTIONS FOR 18tl. 



The following Members and Correspondents of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences have been elected during the year 1871 : — 



MEMBERS. 



February 28. — Henry T. Peck, Archibald Mclntyre, John 

 McLaughlin, Lewis Thompson, George Thompson, Rachel L. 

 Bodley, Lt. Clarence Edward Dutton, U.S.A., S. J. W. Mintzer, 

 M.D., Elizabeth Shreve, J. B. White, M.D., Charles C. Phillips, 

 Richard Morris Smith, T.Warren O'Neil, Charles T. Yerkes, Jr., 

 Caleb Cresson, Wm. P. Jenks. 



March 28 Gustavus A. Nicholls, J. Price Wetherill. 



April 25. — B. F. Quimby, A. Crawford Coates. 



May 30. — Wm. Campbell Gatzraer, Samuel P. Wetherill. 



June 21. — Frederick W. Eiidlich, Edward K. Williams, Fred- 

 erick Gutekunst. 



November 28. — Richard Day, Thomas E. Parke, M.D., Commo- 

 dore J. P. Gillis, U.S.N., Samuel W. Pennypacker, Richard A. 

 Lewis, W. Grier Hibler, Louis Stille, M.D., James A. Ogden, Ro- 

 land G. Curtin, M.D., Allen Shryock. 



December 26.— A. L. Gihon, M.D., U.S.N., Andrew H. Miller. 



CORRESPONDENTS. t 



February 28. — S. B. Buckley, of Austin, Texas. 



March 28.— Hon. H. Nevill, of Gallee, Ceylon; John Hauxwell, 

 of Pebas, Equador. 



June 21. — Gen. L. E. Yorke, of Cincinnati, Ohio. 



November 28.— Dr. J. Van A. Carter, of Fort Bridger, Wyom- 

 ing; Dr. Joseph K. Corson, U.S.A.; Prof. W. C. Kerr, of Ral- 

 eigh, N. C; George Stewardson Brady, of Sunderland, England. 



1872.] 




348 CORRESrONDENCE. 



CORRESPONDENCE OF THE ACADEMY 



For 1871. 



January. — W. H. WaM, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as 

 member. 



Geological Society of London, acknowledging receipt of American Jour- 

 nal of Concbolog3^ 



Societe des Sciences Naturelles de Ncucliatel ; 



Neues Jalirbucli fiir Mineralogie ; cacli acknowledging receipt of Journal. 



Verein fiir vaterliiudiscbe Naturkunde in AViirttemberg, acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



February. — Magyar Tudomanyos Akademia ; 



Bureau de la Rechercbe Geologiquc de la Suede ; 



Seuckenbcrgiscbe Naturforscbeude Gesellscbaft in Frankfurt-am-Main ; 

 severally sending publications. 



Bureau de la Recberche Geologique de la Suede ; 



Tbe Naturforscbende Gesellscbaft of Basel ; 



Tbe Verein der Freunde der Naturgescbiclite in Mecklenburg ; 



Seuckenbergiscbe Naturforscbende Gesellscbaft in Frankfurt-am-Main ; 

 severally acknowledging receipt of publications. 



J. M. KoUock, witb specimens. , 



March. — American Geograpbical and Statistical Society ; 



Die Koniglicb Sacbsiscbe Gesellscbaft der Wissenscbaften ; 



Asiatic Society of Bengal ; severally acknowledging receipt of publica- 

 tions. 



American Legation, Tbe Hague ; 



Museu de Lisboa Secqao Zoologica ; witb publications. 



H. A. Dreer, resigning membersbip. 



D. F. Boyd, regarding catalogues of museum. 



Prof. Igino Coccbi, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as corres- 

 pondent. 



April. — Essex Institute ; 



Das Bibliotbekariat der Koniglicb Bayeriscben Akademie der Wissen- 

 scbaften ; eacb acknowledging receipt of publications. 

 J. B. Blair, regarding "Birds of tbe World." 

 Die Gesellscbaft Naturforscbende Freunde zu Berlin ; witb publications. 



May. — Lyceum of Natural History, New York ; 



Academy of Sciences of Cbicago ; eacb acknowledging receipt of publi- 

 cations. 

 W. M. Gabb, witb specimens. 



[April 9, 




CORRESPONDENCE. 349 



June. — Die Kouigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen, 

 acknowledging receipt of publications. 



Naturforscbende Gesellscbaft zu Halle a. d. S. ; witb publications, and 

 acknoAvledging receipt of publications. 



Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien ; "with publications. 



July. — A. S. H'erschel, announcing the death of Sir John Herschel. 

 Smithsonian Institution ; 

 Essex Institute ; 



American Geographical and Statistical Society ; each acknowledging 

 receipt of publications. 



August. — Die Konigl. bohmische Gesellschaft der "Wissenschaften, Prag ; 



Secretar des Nassauischen Vereius flir Naturkunde, Wiesbaden ; acknow- 

 ledging receipt of publications. 



Universidad de Chile ; 



Era Museets Direction, Bergen ; 



Der Naturforscher Verein zu Riga ; with publications. 



G. Burmcister, forwarding Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. 



Madame Claparede, announcing death of Edward Claparede. 



The Society of Natural and Physical Science, Leavenworth, asking for 

 copy of Constitution and By-Laws of the Academy. 



Consulat de Grece, New York, regarding package sent. 



Archivio per I'Antropologia E La Etnologia, proposing exchanges. 



September. — Era Museets Direction, Bergen ; 



Naturhistorischer Verein der preussischen Rheinlande und Westphalens, 

 Bonn ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta ; 



Die Naturforscbende Gesellschaft, Freiburg; acknowledging receipt of 

 publications. 



Real Observatorio de Madrid ; 



Geological Survey of India, Calcutta ; 



Die Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft zu Chemnitz ; 



Italian Society of Natural Sciences, Milan ; 



Societe des Sciences de Finlande ; with publications. 



Der Naturforscbende Verein in Briiuu, acknowledging receipt of publi- 

 cations, and forwarding others in return. 



Hugh Nevill, acknowledging receipt of notice of election as correspon- 

 dent. 



October. — Naturforscbende Gesellschaft in Emden ; 



Per Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fiir das Eiirstenthum Llineburg ; each 

 acknowledging receipt of publications. 



William Garley, regarding fossils. 



Prof. Gegenbauer, Jena; 



Societe Linneenne de Bordeaux ; with publications, and acknowledging 

 receipt of others. 



Die Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wein, Avith publications. 



1872.] 




350 CORRESPONDENCE. 



November. — Lyceum of Natural History, New York ; ■ 



British Museum, London ; acknowledi^ing receipt of publications. 



Det Kongelige Danske Vidcnskabernes Selskab, with publications. 



Announcement of death of Sir R. I. Murchison. 



George Davidson, with photographs. , 



George Davidson, with specimens for museum. • \ 



J. C. Jay, regarding collection of shells. 



American Museum of Natural Historj'-, New York, specifying days it is 

 open for special study. 



F. B. Meek, with paper for publication. 



December. — Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland ; 



Die Koniglich Siichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, Leipzig ; 



Lyceum of Natural History, New York ; 



Pliysicalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft in Wiirzburg ; acknowledging re- 

 ceipt of publications. 



L. E. Yorke ; 



W. C. Kerr ; 



J. A. Van Carter ; 



J. K. Corson ; each acknowledging receipt of notice of election as cor- 

 respondent. 



Number of letters received, 1871 110 



" of correspondents elected 8 



EDW. D. COPE, 

 Corresponding Secretary. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 851 



DONATIONS TO THE LIBRARY, ISIl. 

 JOUKNALS AND PERIODICALS. 



NORWAY. 



Bergen. Sondre Bergenhns Amtsformandskabs Forhandlingar i Aaret 



1867-70. From the Bergen Museum. 

 Christiania. Forhandlinger i Videnskabs Selskabet. Aar 1869-70. From 

 the Society. 

 Det K. Norske Frederiks Universitets Aarsberetning for Aaret 1869- 



70. From the University. 

 Nyt ]\Iagazin for Naturvidenskabernes. 7de Binds, 2et Hefte ; 8de 



Binds, 3e Hefte. From the editors. 

 Den Norske Turistforenings Arbog for 1870. From the Society. 

 Norsk Meteorologisk Aarbog for 1869, 3die Aargang, 1870. From the 



Meteorologiske Instituut. 

 Det Norske^Meteorologiske Instituuts Storm-Atlas, 1870. From the 

 Institute. 



DENMARK. 



Copenhagen. Videnskabemes Meddelelser fra Naturhistorisk Forening 



for Aaret, 1870, No. 12-28. From the Society. 

 Oversifft over det K. D. Videnska])erncs Selskabs Forhandlinger og 



dets Mcdlemers Arbeider i Aaret, 1870, Nos. 2-3 ; 1871, No. 1. From 



the Society. 

 Videnskabemes Selskab Skrifter, 5 Raekke, Naturvid, og Mathem. 



Afd. 9 Bd. II. III. and IV. From the Society. 



HOLLAND. 



Leeuvrarden. Nederlandsch Kruidkundig Archief. Vijde Deel, Vierde 

 Stuk, 1870. From the editors. 



RUSSIA. 



Dorpat. Archiv fiir die Naturkunde Liv-Ehst und Kurlands. Iste Series, 



6er Band, Iste Lief. 2e serie; 7er Band, 2e Lief 1870. From the 



Publisliing- Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der Dorpater Naturforscher Gesellschaft, 3er Band, 



Iste Heft. From the Society. 

 Helsingfors, Acta Societatis Scientiarum Fennicae. Tomus IX. 1871. 



From the Society. 

 Moscow. Bulletin de la Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes de Moscou. 



Annee, 1870, No. 2. From the Society. 

 St. Petersburg. Horse Societatis Entomologicfe Rossica?. Tome VI., No. 



3 and supplement ; Tome VII., Nos. 1-3 ; Tome VIIL, No 1. From 



the Society. ^ 



Memoires de I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences. 7e Serie. Tome 



XVI., Nos. 1-8. From the Academy. 

 Bulletin de TAcademie Imperiale des Sciences. Tome XV., Nos. 3-5 ; 



Tome XVI., No. 1, 1871. From the Society. 



18t2.J 




352 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Repertorium fiir Mineralogie. Band I., Heft 2. From the same. 

 Annales de TObscrvatoire Physique Central de Russie. Anuee, 1866. 



From the Observatory. 

 Ofversigt af Finska Vetenskaps-Societetens Forhandlingar XIII., 1870 



-71. From the Society. 

 Bidrag till kJinncdon af Finlauds Natur och Folk, iitgifna af F. Ve- 



tcnskaps-Societen. Sjuttonde Hiiftct. From the Society. 

 Riga. Arbeiten des Naturforschcr-Vereins, Neue Folge. 3es and 4es 



Heft. From the Society. 

 Corrcspondenzblatt des Naturforscher Vereins. 18er Jalirg., 1870. 



From the Society. 

 Denkscbrift of the same. Marz, 1870. From the Society. 



GERMANY. 



Berhn. Entomologische Zeilscrift. 14er Jahrg. ; 3es and 4es Vierteljah- 

 resheft ; 15er Jahrg. ; Ics— 4es Viert. From the Society. 

 Zcitscrift fiir die Gesammtcu Naturwissenschaften. Juli, August, Sep- 

 tember, October, November, and December, 1870. From the editor. 

 Zeitschrift der Deutschen Geologischen Gesellschaft. XXII. Band, 4 



Heft ; XXIII. Band, 1-2 Heft. From the Society. 

 Archiv fiir Naturgcschichte. 34cr Jahrg., 6es Heft, to 37 Jahrg., les 



Heft. From the editor. 

 Sitzungsberichte der Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde in Berlin 



im Jahre, 1870. From the Society. 

 Monatsbericht der K. P. Akademie 'der Wissenschaften. April, 1870- 



August, 1871. From the Society. 

 Physikalische Abhaudlungeu of the same ans dem Jahre, 1809-70. 



From the Society. 

 Mathematische Abhandlungen of the same, 1869. From the Society. 

 Verzeichniss der Abhandlungen der K. P. Akad. der Wissen. von 

 1710-1870, in alphabetischer Folge der Verfasser. From the Aca- 

 demy. 

 Wochenschrift des Vereiues zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. XIII. 

 Jabrg. From the Society. 

 Bonn, Verhandhmgeu des Naturhistorischen Vereines der Preussischen 

 Rheinlande mid Westphaleus. 27 Jahrg., 1870. From the Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologie. 4er Band, 3es und 4es Vier- 



teljahrsheft. Purchased. 

 Bremen. Abhandlungen herausgegeben von Naturwissenschaftlichen Ver- 



eine. 2 Bd., III. Heft. From the Society. 

 Briinn. Verhandlungcn des Naturforscheuden Vereines. Band VIII., 1 



und 2 Heft. From the Society. 

 Cassel. Malakozoologische Blatter. Banden 16, 17, und 18 ; Bg. 1-10, 



und Jan., 1871. Purchased. 

 Chemnitz. Dritter Bericht der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft, 1871. 



From the Society. 

 Danzig; Schriften der Naturforschcnden Gesellschaft, Neue Folge. 2en 



Bandes, 3es und 4es Heft. From the Society. 

 Darmstadt. Notizblatt des Vereins fiir Erdkunde und verwandte Wissen- 

 schaften. Ill Folge, 9 Heft. From the Society. 

 Dresden. Sitzungsberichte der Naturwissenschaftlichen Gesellschaft Isis. 



1870, July to 1871, Marz. From the Society. 

 Emden. 56er Jahresbericht der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, 1870. 

 From the Societj'. 

 Kleine Schriften der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft, XV. From the 

 Society. 

 Erfurt. Jahrbiicher der K. Akademie gemeinnutziger Wissenschaften. 

 Neue Folge, Heft VI., 1870. From the Society. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 853 



Frankfurt, A. M. Bericbt iiber die Senckenbergische Naturforschende Ge- 



scllscliaft, 1869-70. From the Society. 

 Abliandluugeu, lierausgegeben von der Senckenbergisclicn Naturfor- 



scendcn Gesellscliaft. 7en Baudcs, oes und 4es Heft. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Der Zoologische Garten. XI. Jahrg., Nos. 7-12; XII. Jahrg., ISTos. 



2-G. From the editor. 

 Freiburg, J. B. Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der Naturforschenden 



Gesellschaft. Heft III. and IV., 1870. From the Society. 

 Gottingen. jSTachrichten von der K. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften und 



der Georg-Augusts Uuiversitiit aus dem Jahre, 1870. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Halle. Abhandlungen der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft. lieu Bandes, 



2es Heft ; 12en Bandes, les und 2cs Heft. From the Societj'. 

 Hannover. Zwanzigster Jahresbericht der Naturhistorichen Gesellschaft, 



1871. From the Society. 

 Heidelberg. Verhandlungen des Naturhistorisch-Medicinischen Vereins. 



SerBand. From the Society. 

 Karteu. Jahrbuch des ISTaturhistorischen Landesmuseum. 8 and 9 Heft. 



From the Society. 

 Leipzig. Zeitschrift fiir Wissenschaftliche Zoologie. Vols. 13, 13, 14, 15, 



and 21er Band, les-3es Heft. 5*"i'chased. 

 Jahrbuch fiir Wissenschaftliche Botanik. 17er Band, 4es Heft ; 18 



Band, les and 2es Heft. Purchased. 

 Jenaische Zeitschrift fiir Medicin und Naturwissenschaft. 6er Band, 



1-4 Heft. From the Publishing Society. 

 Arcliiv fiir Anatomic, Physiologic, und Wissenschaftliche Medecin. 



1869, No. I. to 1871, No. II. Purchased. 



Journal fiir Oruithologie. XVIII. Jahrg., Heft IV. to XIX. Jahrg., 



Heft III. Purchased. 

 Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen der K. S. Gesellschaft der Wisseu- 

 ' schaften. Mathematisch-Physische Classe, 1867, Nos. II. — IV. ; 



1870, Nos. I. and II. From the Society. 



Abhandlungen of the same. IX. Band, Nos. IV. and V., 1870. From 



the Society. 



Munich. Sitzungsberichte der Math. — Phys., Classe der K. B. Akademie 



der Wissenschaften. 1870, II. Heft, 1-4 ; 1871, Heft I. and II. From 



the Society. 



Neubrandenburg. Archiv des Vereins der Freunde der Naturgeschichte 



in Meklenburg. 24 Jahr. From the Society. 

 Pesth. Magyar Tudom. Akademiai Almanach, 1869-70. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 A. M. T. Akademia Erkonyvei Tijenharmadik Kotet. I. and IV. 



Darab. From the Society. 

 ]\Iatliematikai cs Termeszettudomanyi Kozlemenyek vonatkozolag a 

 liazai viskonyokra. Kiadja A. M. T. Akademia. V. Kotet 1867. 

 From the Societv. 

 A. M. T. Akad. Ertesetoje. Masodik Evfolyam 12 Szam 1868— Neg- 



yedik Evfolyam, 11 Szam 1870. From the Society. 

 Ertezesek a Termeszettudomanyi Osztaly Korebol kiadja a M. T. Akad., 

 1868-70. From the Society. 

 Prag. Sitzungsberichte der K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Jahrg. 

 1870, Jan. — Dec. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. 1870, 6ste Folge, 4er Band. From the 

 Society. 

 Regensburg. Flora, herausgegeben von der K. botanischen Gesellschaft. 

 Neue Reihe, 28 Jahrg. From the Society. 

 Correspondenz-Blatt des Zoologisch-Mineralogischen Vereins. 34cr 

 Jahrg. From the Society. 

 1812.] 




354 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Stettiu. Entomologische Zeitnng. Hcrausgcgeben von dem Entomologis- 



clien Vereiue. 31er Jalirg. 1870. From the Society. 

 Stuttgart. Neucs Jahrbucli ftir Miueralogie. Jahrg., 1870, 6es Ileft to 



1871, 5 Heft. From the editor. 

 Wiirttembergische Naturwissenschaftliche Jahreshefte. 26er Jahrg., 



les, 2es, imd 3es Heft, 1870. From the editor. 

 AUgemeines Repertorium der Miueralogie, Geologic, und Palilontologie 



fiir das Decennium, 1860-69. Index zu den in Leonhard nnd 



Geinitz's Jahrbucli. 1870. From the editor. 

 Vienna. Verhandlungen der K. K. Zoologisch-Botanischen Gesellschaft. 



Jahrg., 1870. XX. Band. From the Society. 

 Sitzungsberichte der K. Akadcmie der Wissenscliaften. Mathem. — 



Naturwiss. Classe. 60 Band, Iste Abth, III.— V. Heft; 2e Abth, 



III.— V. Heft; 61 Band, Iste Abth, I.— V. Heft; 3e Abth, II.— V. 



Heft ; 62 Band, Iste Abth, I. and II. Heft ; 2e Abth, I.— III. Heft ; 



Register zu den Banden 51-60. From the Society. 

 Denkschriften der K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Mathem. -Natur- 



wissenschaftliche Classe. 30er Band. From the Society. 

 Schriften dcs Vereins zur Verbreitung Natnrwissenschaftlichen Kennt- 



nisse in Wien. IX. and X. Band. From the Society. 

 Verhandlungen der K. K. Geologischen Reichsanstalt. Nos. 1-18, 



1870. From the Society. 

 Jahrbuch of the same. Jahrg. 1870, XX. Band, Nos. 3 and 4 ; XXI. 



Band, No. 1. From the Society. 

 Abhandlungen of the same. Band V., Nos. 1 and 2. From the So- 

 ciety. 

 Mittheilungen der Anthropologischen Gesellschaft. I. Band, Nos. 4-11. 



From the Society. 

 Wiesbaden. Jahrblicher des Nassauischen Vereins fi'ir Naturkunde. 



Jahrg. XXIII. uud XXIV. From the Society. 

 Wurzburg. Verhandlungen der Physikal-Medicin. Gesellschaft. Neue 



Folge, II. Band, 1 and 2 Heft. From the Society. 



SWITZERLAND. 



Geneva. Memoires de la Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de 



Geneve. Tome XX., seconde partie. From the Societ3^ 

 Bibliotheque Universelle et Revue Suisse. Archives des Sciences Na- 



turelles. Nouvelle Periode. Tome 29me, Nos. 153-156. From the 



Editor. 

 Lausanne. Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Vol. 



X., Nos. 63 and 64. 

 Neuchatel. Bulletin de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Tome VIII., 



3me Cahier, 1870. From the Society. 

 St. Gallen. Bericht iiber die Thatigkeit der St. Gallischen Naturwissen- 



schaftlichen Gesellschaft wiihrend des Vereinjahres 1868-69-70. 



From the Society. 



SPAIN AND PORTUGAL. 



Lisbon. Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas e Naturals Publicado 

 sob OS auspicios da Academia Real das Sciencias. Nos. 7, 8 and 10, 

 1869. From the Society. 



Madrid. Anuario del Observatorio de Madrid. Auo IX. and X. From 

 the Observatory. 



BELGIUM. 



Bruxelles. Bulletins de la Societe Malacologiquc de Belgique. Tomes I., 

 II. and III. Purchased. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 355 



FRANCE. 



Bordeaux. Menioires de la Sociote des Sciences Plij-siques et Naturolles. 



Vols. VI. and VIII., ler Caliier, 1868 and 1870. From the Society. 



Caen. Memoires de TAcademie Imperialc des Sciences, Arts et Belles- 



Lettres. 1870 and 1871. From the Society. 

 Lyons. Memoires de TAcademie Imperiale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres, et 

 Arts. Classe des Lettres. Tome 4me. 1868-69. From the Society. 

 Annales de la Societe Imperiale d' Agriculture, Histoire Naturelle et 

 Arts Utiles. 4me Serie. Tome ler. 1868. From the Society. 

 Paris. Journal de Conchyliologie. 3e Serie. Tome XI., Nos. 1-4. From 

 the Editor. 

 Annales des Mines. 6me Serie. Tome XVIII., 4e-6e Livr. 1871, e et 



2e Livr. From the Minister of Puljlic Works, France. 

 Annales des Sciences Naturellcs. ome Serie. Botauique. Tome XII. 

 Nos. 1-6. Zoologie. Tome XL Nos. 1-6. Tome XIV. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Bulletin Mensuel de la Societe Zoologique d'Acclimatation. 2me Serie. 



Tome VIL, No. 8, to Vol. VIIL, iSTo. 10. From the Society. 

 Bulletin de la Societe Botauique de France. Tome 17me. Comptcs 

 Rendus des Sciences, 3 and 3. 1870. From the Society. 



ITALY. 



Bologna. Rendiconto delle Sessioni deir Accademia delle Scienze dell' 



Istituto di Bologna. Anno Accademico, 1870-71. From the Society. 

 Cagnola. Atti della Fondazione Scientifica Cagnola. Vol. V., Pts. I. and 



II. From the Society. 

 Lucca. Atti della R. Academia Lucchese di Scienza, Lettere ed Arti. 



Tomos 17 and 18. From the Academy. 

 Milan. Reale Instituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti. Series 



II., Vol. II., Fasc. 17 et seg. Vol. III. and IV., Fasc. 1-6, 8-13. 



From the Academy. 

 Memoirs of the same. Classe di Scienze Mathematiche e Xaturale. 



Vol. XII. From the Society. 

 Xapoli. Societa Reale di Xapoli. Atti del Accademia delle Scienze Fisiche 



e Mathematiche. Vols. III. and IV. From the Society. 

 Rendiconto of the same. Anno VI., Nos. 6-12. Anno VII. and VIIL 



From the Society. 

 Palermo. Giornale di Scienze Naturali ed Economiche pubblicato per 



cura del Consiglio di Perfezionamento annesso al R. Instituto Tech- 



nico di Palermo. Anno 1869. Vol. V., Fasc. III. and IV. Anno 



1870. Vol. VI., Fasc. I. and II. From the Society. 

 Turin. Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. Vol. V., Disp. 



le-7e, 1870. From the Society. 

 Notizia Storico del Lavori fatti della Classe di Scienze fisiche e Mathe- 

 matiche dell R. Accademia delle Scienze di Torino negli Anni 1864 e 



1865. From the Academy. 

 Appendice al Vol. IV. dcgli Atti della R. Accademia delle Scienze di 



Torino. From the Society. 

 BuUetino Meteorolo2;ico ed Astronomico del Regio Osservatorio dell 



Univcrsita di Torino. Anno IV., 1869. From the University. 

 Venice. Atti del Reale Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Tome 



14, Disp. 10 ; Tome 15, Disp. 1, 3-10; Tome 16, Disp. 1-7. From 



the Society. 



1872.1 




356 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



GREECE. 



Athens. Archcological Journal. Presented by the Athenian Archcological 

 Society, at the expense of the Royal Government. Second Series. 

 Vol. I., 18G2. From the Society. 



GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND. 



Edinburgh. Proceedings of the Royal Society. 18G9-70. From the 



Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. XXVI., Part 1. From the Society. 

 Transactions and Proceedings of the Botanical Society. Vol. X., Part 



2. From the Society. 

 Glasgow. Proceedings of the Philosophical Society. Vol. VI., No. 4 ; 



Vol. VII., Nos. 1 and 3 ; Vol. VIII., No. 3. From the Society. 

 Liverpool. Proceedings of the Literary and Philosophical Society during 



the Fifty-seventh Session. Nos. 23 and 24. 18G9. From the'Society. 

 London. The Food Journal. Nos. 11-23. From the Editor. 



The Ibis. 3d Series. Vol. I., Nos. 1-4. From the Wilson Fund. 

 The Athenajum Journal. Nos. 2236-2253. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. G4-74. From 



the Publishers. 

 Nature. Vol. III., Nos. 74-76. From the Editor. 

 The Journal of the Chemical Society. November, 1870, to Julj^, 1871. 



From the Society. 

 The Journal of Botany, British and Foreign. Vol. IX., Nos. 97-107. 



Purchased. 

 Proceedings of the Scientific Meetings of the Zoological Society of 



London, for the Year 1870, Parts 1, 2, and 3 ; 1871, Part 1. From 



the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. VII., Parts 3-6. From the Society. 

 The Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society. Vol. XXVI., Parts 



3 and 4 ; Vol. XXVII., Parts 1 and 3. From the Society. 

 The Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, Second Series. No. VII. 



Nov. 1870. Purchased. 

 Proceedings of the Royal Society. Vol. XIX., Nos. 119-123. From 



the Society. 

 Philosophical Transactions of the same. Vol. CLX., Part 1. From 

 • the Society. 

 Notes and Queries. Parts 35 and 36. November and December, 1870. 



From the Editor. 

 Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Vol. VI. Fourth Series, 



Nos. 35, 36, and 37. Purchased. 

 The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Vol. 



XL. Nos. 268, 269, and 270. Purchased. 

 Proceedings of the Roj-al Geographical Society. Vol. XIV., No. 5. 



From the Society. 

 The Journal of the Societj' of Arts and of the Institutions in Union. 



Vol. XVIII. 1870. From the Society. 

 Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. 



New Series, Vol. V., Part 1. 1870. From the Society. 

 Report of the Meetings of the British Association for the Advancement 



of Science, for 1860, 1861, 1862, 1863, 1869, and 1870. Purchased. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Natural History Transactions of Northumberland 



and Durham. Vol. IV., Part 1. From the Society. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 357 



UNITED STATES. 



* 



Baltimore. Fourth Annual Report of the Provost to the Trustees of the 



Peabody Institute of the City of Baltimore. June 1, 1871. From 



the Trustees. 

 Boston. Annual Report of the Trustees of the Museum of Comparative 



Zoology at Harvard Colletre, for 1870. From the Trustees 

 Bulletin of the same. Vol. III., No. 1. 



Fourth and Fifth Annual Reports of tlie Trustees of the Peabody Mu- 

 seum of American ArchtTjology and Ethnology. 1871. From the 



Trustees. 

 The Literary World. Vol. I., No 89 to Vol. II., No. 1. From tlie 



Editor. 

 Proceedings of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. XIII , 



Page 303 et seq.; Vol. XIV. Pages 1-112. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Boston Society of Natural History. Vol. II., Part I., 



No. 2. From the Society. 

 Annual of Scientific Discovery for 18G8 to 1871. Purchased. 

 Cambridge. Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Vol. II. 



Nos. 2 and 3. From tlie Director. 

 Chicago. American Journal of Microscopy. Vol. I., No. 1. April, 1871. 



From the Editor. 

 Harrisburg. Pennsylvania Fruit Grower's Society. Annual Meeting. 



January 6, 1867. From the Society. 

 Leavenworth Medical Herald. Vol. IV., No. XII. to Vol. V., No. XL 



From the Editor. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. 1871. Vol. I., 



No. 1 to Vol. II., No. 12. Third Series. From the Editors. 

 Transactions of the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Vol. 



I., Part 2. From the Society. 

 Newport. Archives of Science and Transactions of the Orleans County 



Society of Natural Sciences. Vol. I., Nos. 2-4. From the Editor. 

 New York. Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club. Vol. I., No. 12 to 



Vol. II., No. 11. From Thos. Meeliau. 

 The American Gas Light Journal. Vol. XIIL, No. 1 to Vol. XIV., 



No. 6. From the Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal. Vol. XIIL, No. 2 to Vol. XIV., No. 6. 



From the Editor. 

 The American Chemist. New Series. Vol. L, No. 7 to Vol. 11. , No. 



5. From the Editor. 

 Annals of the Lyceum of Natural History. Vol. IX., No. 13 to Vol. 



X. , No. 3. From the Society. 

 Philadelphia. American Journal of Conchology. Vol. IV., Part 3 to 



Vol. VIL, Part 2. From the Publication Committee. 

 The Dental Cosmos. Vol. XIIL, Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 The Gardener's Monthly. Vol. XIIL, Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 The Penn Monthly. Vol. 11. , Nos. 1-12. From the Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy. Vol. XLIIL, Nos. 1-12. Fourth 



Series. From the Editor. 

 Proceedings of the American Pharmaceutical Association at the 18th 



Annual Meeting. September, 1870. From the Association. 

 The American Journal of the Medical Sciences. Nos. 121-124. From 



the Editor. 

 Journal of the Franklin Institute. Vol. XCIL, Nos. 546-550. From 



the Institute. 

 Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society. Vol. XL, No. 85 



and Vol. XII., No. 86. 1870. From the Society. 

 Transactions of the same. Vol. XIV. New Series, Part 1. From 



the Society, 

 1872.] PART III.— 24 




858 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Salem. The American Naturalist. Vol. V., Nos. 2-11. From tlie Editor. 

 Bulletin of the Essex Institute. Vol. II., No. 9 to Vol. III., Nos. 1, 



3, 5-7. From the Society. 

 Proceedings and Communications of the Essex Institute. Vol. VI., 



Part 2. From the Society. 

 Memoirs of the Peabody Academy of Sciences. Vol. I., No. 2. From 



the Academy. 

 Second and Third Annual ifeports of the Trustees of the Peabody 

 Academy of Sciences, for the years 1869 and 1870. From the 

 Trustees. 

 St. Louis. American Entomologist. Vol. II., No. 12. Purchased. 

 San Francisco. Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences. Vol. 

 IV., Parts. 1870. From the Society. 

 California Farmer, for 1871. From the Editor. 

 Washington. Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXVII. 



From the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Worcester. Proceedings of the American Antiquarian Society. No. 56, 

 and October 21, 1870. From the Society. 



CANADA. 



Montreal. The Canadian Naturalist. New Series. Vol. V., Nos. 2-4, 



and Vol. VI., No. 1. From the Editor. 

 The Year Book and Almanac of Canada, for 1871. From P. P. 



Carpenter. 

 London, Canada. Canadian Entomologist. Vol. II., Nos. 10-12. Vol. 



III., Nos. 1-8. From the Editor. 

 Quebec. Transactions of the Literary and Historical Society. New Series. 



Part 8. From the Society. 

 Toronto. The Canadian Journal of Science, Literature, and History. 



Vol. XIII., Nos. 1 and 2. From the Editor. 



SOUTH AMERICA. 



Buenos Aires. Anales del Museo Publico de Buenos Aires. Entrega 4 and 



5. From tlie Museum. 

 Santiago de Chile. Anales de la Universidad de Chile. Jan. -Dec. 1869. 



From the University. 



ASIA. 



Batavia. Tijdschriftvoorlndische Taal-Land en Volkenkunde uitgegeven 

 door bet Bataviaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

 Deel XIII.-XVIL, and Deel XVIIL, Aflev. 1. From the Society. 

 Notulen van de Algemeene en Bestuurs-Vergaderingcn van het Bata- 

 viaasch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Deel I. -VI.; 

 Deel VII., No. 1. From the Society. 

 Verhandelingen of the same. Deel XXX. -XXXIII. From the Society. 

 Natuurkundig Tijdschrift door Nederlandsch Indie, uitgegeven door 

 de K. Natuurkundige Vereeniging in Nederlandsch Indie. Deel 

 XXXI. Svende Serie. Deel I., 1869. From the Society. 

 Bengal. Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. 



1870-71. From the Society. 

 Calcutta. Journal of the Asiatic Society of Bengal. 1862 to Part II., No. 

 4, 1870. From Isaac Lea. 

 Proceedings of the same. From January, 1865, to No. 5, 1871. From 

 Isaac Lea. 

 Colombo. Journal of the Ceylon Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society. 

 1865-66, 1867-70, Parts 1 and 2. From the Society. 



[April 9, 




i 



DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 359 



OTHER SCIENTIFIC WORKS. 



Accessions to the Indian Museum, Calcutta, from June, 1869, to June, 1870. 



From Dr. Joseph Leidy. 

 Aeby, Dr. Chr. Der Bau des Menscliliclien Korpers. Leipzig, 1871. 



Purcliased. 

 Agassiz, L., and Ch. F. Hart. Scientific Results of a Journey in Brazil. 



Boston, 1870. Purchased. 

 Allman, Geo. James. Publications of the Ray Society. A Monograph of 

 the Gymnoblastic or Tubularian Hydroids. Part I. From the 

 Wilson Fund. 

 Annual Report of the Secretary of the Interior for the year 1871. From 



the Author. 

 Annual Report of the Directors of City Trusts for the year 1870. First. 



From the Board of Trusts. 

 Annual Report of the Regents of the University of the State of New- 

 York. Twentieth. Revised edition, 1868. From James Hall. 

 Annual Report of the N. Y. State Library. Fifty -third. From the Trus- 

 tees. 

 Annual Report of the Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of New 



Jersey, 1870. First. From the Commissioners. 

 Annual Report of the Board of Commissioners of Public Charities of the 



State of Pennsylvania, 1871. First. From the Board. 

 Annual Report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the state of the Finances 



for the year 1870. From the Secretary. 

 Baars, Herman. Les Peches de la Norwege. From the Author. 

 Baird, S. F., and J. G. Cooper. Geological Survey of California. Orni- 

 thology. Vol. I., Land Birds. Purchased. 

 Bericht iiber die Wisseuschaftliclien Leistuu2;en im Gebiete der Entomo- 

 ^ logic Aviilirend der Jahre 1867, 1868. I'ste und 2e Halfte, und 1869. 

 Purchased. 

 Bischoff, G. Lehrbuch der Chemischen und Physikalischen Geologic. 



3 Vols. Bonn, 1863, 1866. Purchased. 

 Bland, Thos. and W. G. Binney. Notes on the genus Pineria and on the 



lingual dentition of Pineria Viequensis Pfr. From the Authors. 

 Bleeker, P. Atlas Icthyologique des Indies Orientales Neerlandaises. 



Livrs 22-2-1. From the Wilson Fund. 

 Socage, J. V. Barboza du. Oiscaux nouveau de I'Afrique occidentale. 



From the Author. 

 Bolton, J. C. Index to the Literature of Uranium. From the Author. 

 Brady, George Stewardson. A Review of the Cyprinidse of the European 

 Seas. 

 Notes on Fossil Ostracoda. 



The Ostracoda and Foraminifera of Tidal Rivers. 

 Address to the Members of the Tyneside Naturalist's Field Club. 

 On undescribed fossil Entomostraca from the brick-earth of the Nar. 

 Deep-Sea Dredging on the Coasts of Northumberland and Durham in 



1864. 

 Contributions to the Study of the Entomostraca. 

 Notes of week's dredging in the west of Ireland. 

 On the Crustacean Fauna of the salt marshes of Northumberland and 



Durham. 

 Description of an Entomostracan inhabiting a Coal Mine. 

 Notes on Entomostraca. From the Author. 

 Brady, Henry B. On Saccammina Carteri. 

 On Ellipsoidina. From the Author. 



1872.] 




360 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Brigham, W. T. Historical Notes on the Earthquakes of New England, 



1638-18G9. From the Author. 

 Bronn, Dr. H. G. Klassen unci Ordnuugen dcs Thicr-Reichs. 6er Band, 

 IV. Abth, 5 and 5 Lief; 5er Band, 14er, 15er, und 16er Lief. From 

 the Wilson Fund. 

 Capellini, Prof. Cav. G. Di Nicola Stenone e dei suoi Studii geologic! in 

 Italia. 

 Armi e Utensili di Pietra del Bolognese. 



Cenni Geologici sulle valli del' Ufita del Galore e del Cervaro. Bo- 

 logna, 1869. 

 L'Eta deUa Pietra nella valle della vibrata del Prof. Cav. G. Capellini. 

 Bologna, 1871. From the Author. 

 Capello, Felix de Bristo. Algumas especes novas ou pouco conhecidas de 

 Crustaceos pertencentes aos generos Calappa e Telphusa. From the 

 Author. 

 Catalogue of Scientific Papers published by the Royal Society. Vol. IV. 



London, 1870. From the Society. 

 Catalogues of the Library and of the Numismatic and Ethnological Col- 

 lections of the Society of Arts and Sciences of Batavia. From the 

 Society. 

 Carpenter, Wm. B. and H. B. Brady. Description of Parkeria and Lof- 



tusia. From the Authors. 

 Colding, M. A. Extrait d'un Memoire sur les Lois des Courants dans les 



Conduits ordinaires et dans la Mer. From the Author. 

 Collection of thirty-eight schoolbooks, tales, and translations. From the 



Museum at Bergen. ' 

 Cook, George H. Annual Report of the State Geologist of New Jersey 



for the year 1870. From the Author. 

 Cope, E. D. On the Homologies of some of the Cranial Bones of the 

 Reptilia, and ou the systematic arrangement of the class. 

 Second Addition to the history of the Fishes of the Cretaceous of the 



U. S. 

 Fourth Contribution to the history of the Fauna of the Miocene and 

 Eocene Periods of the United States. From the Author. 

 Coues, E. On the Myology of the Ornithorynchus. From the Author. 

 Credner, H. Leber gewisse Ursachen der Krystallverschiedenheiten des 

 kohlensauren Kalkes. 

 Ueber nordamerikanische Schieferporphyroide. 

 Die Geognosie und der Mineralreichthum des AUeghany-System. 

 Dannielssen, Dr. D. C. Lungegaardshospitalets Virksomhed i Treaaret 



1868-1870. From the Author. 

 Darwin, Chas. The Descent of Man, and Selection in relation to Sex. 2 



vols. 1871. Purchased. 

 Dawson, J. W. Geol. Surv. of Canada. The Fossil Plants of the Devo- 

 nian and Upper Silurian Formations of Canada. From the Author. 

 Des Cloizeaux, A. Manuel de Mineralogie. Tome ler and Atlas. Pur- 

 chased. 

 Dozy, F. et J. H. Molkenbauer. Bryologia Javanica. Fasc. 64. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Dubois. Oiseaux de 1' Europe. 242me-244me Livr. From the Wilson 



Fund. 

 Dunker, Dr. W. and Dr. K. A. Zittel. Palseontographica. 17er Band, 

 5es and 6ste Lief; 19er Band, 4 and 5 Lief; 26er Band, lste-3e Lief. 

 From the Wilson Fund. 

 Ebell, A. J. Natural History. Part I. From the Author. 

 Eight Statistical Pamphlets. From the Government of Chili. 

 Eighteen quarto pamphlets of Norwegian Official Statistics, 1868-1869. 

 From the Norwegian Government. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 361 



Emmons, E. Natural History of New York. Agriculture, Vol. 3. Pur- 

 chased. 



Emory, W. II. Report on the United States and Mexican Boundary Sur- 

 vey. Vol. I., Part II. From Jas. Hall. 



Ereo, Richard Ritter von. Notizen liber Austern-Culter. Triest, 1869. 

 Purchased. 



Ewald, J., J. Roth, und H. Eck. Leopold von Buch's gesammelte 

 Schriften. 2er Band. Berlin, 1870. Purchased. 



Finsch, Dr. O. Monographie der Gattuug Certhiola. From the Author. 



Flower, AVm. H. An Introduction to the Osteology of the Mammalia. 

 London, 1870. From Jos. Jeanes. 



Fifty-eight bibliographical pamphlets, publishers' lists, college catalogues, 

 etc. From the Publishers. 



Frauenfeld, Geo. R. v. . Ueber Vertilgung des Rapskiifers. 



Ueber den Wert der Vogel in Bezug auf das Vogelschutzgesetz. 

 Kurzer Bericht der Ergebnisse meines Ausfluges von Hciligenblut 



iiber Agram an den Plattensee. 

 Die Ausgestorbeneu und Aussterbenden Thiereder jungsten Erdperiode. 

 From the Author. 



Fritsch. Phanologische Beobachtungen aus dem Pflanzen- und Tliierreiche. 

 VIII. , Heft. Jahrg. 1857. From the Vienna Academy. 



Gaudry, A. Auimaux Fossiles et Geologie de I'Attique. 16-19 Livr. 

 Purchased. 



Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. VII., Parts 1, 2, and 3. 



Pala!ontologia Indica. Cretaceous Fauna of Southern India. Vol. III., 

 Nos. 1-8. 



Geological Survey of India, Records of the. Vol. II., Parts 3, 8, and 4. 

 Vol. III. and Vol. IV., Parts 1 and 2. From the Survey. 



Gmelin, J. G. Joannis Georgii Gmelini, Reliquias quiie supersunt Com- 

 mercii Epistolici cum Carolo Linnwo, Alberto Hallero, Guilielmo 

 Stellcro, et al. From the Editor, Dr. G. H. T. Plieninger. 



Gray, Geo. R. Hand. List of Genera and Species of Birds. Part II. 

 From the Author. 



Grote, A. R. On Thecla inornata, G. and R., and Thecla falacer, Godt. 

 From the Author. 



Gunther, A. C. L. G. The Record of Zoological Literature. 1869. Vol. 

 VI. London, 1870. Purchased. 



Hall, Jas. Natural History of New York. Paleontology, Vols. III. and 

 IV. Purchased. 

 Contributions to Palaeontology. Genus Eurypteris. 

 Geological Survev of the State of Wisconsin. 1859-1863. Palsponto- 



logy. Part 3. ' 

 Natural History of New York. Part VI. Palpeontology. Vol. IV. 

 From the Author. 



Hanley, S. and Wm. Theobald. Conchologia Indica. Part 2. Purchased. 



Hansen, G. A. Forelobige Bidrag til Spedalskhedens Karakteristik. 



Fortsatte Bidrag til Lepraens (Spedalskhedens) Karakteristik. From 

 the Author. 



Hague, Jas. D. United States Geological Exploration of the Fortieth 

 Parallel. Mining Industry. With Atlas. From the Chief of En- 

 gineers, U. S. A. 



Hayden, F. V. Preliminary Report of the United States Geological Survey 

 of Wyoming. From the Author. 



Henry, Joseph. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collection. 237. Directions 

 for Constructing Lightning Rods. From the Smithsonian Institu- 

 tion. 



Hewitson, W. C. Exotic Butterflies. Parts 75-SO. From the Wilson 

 Fund. » 



1872.] 




362 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Hogg, Jabez. On Gnat Scales. 



The Fungoid Origin of Disease and Spontaneous Generation. 

 Mycetoma : the Madura or Fungus-foot of India. From the Author. 

 Hunter, Jas. B. A Review of Darwin's Theory of the Origin and De- 

 velopment of Man. From the Author. 

 Issel, A. Biblioteca Malacologica. Malacologia del Mar Rosso richerche 



Zoologiche e Paleontologiche. Purchased. 

 James, T. P. Catalogue of Musci. From the Author. 

 Jan, Prof. Iconographie Generale des Ophidiens. 3Gme Livr. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 Keyserling, E. Beschreibungen neuer und wenig bekannter Arten aus 



der Familie Orbitelae, Latr. From Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 

 Kile, 0. H. Address delivered before the Pawcotuck Library Association. 



From the Author. 

 Kingston, G. T. On the Diurnal and Annual Variations of Temperature 



at Halifax. From the Author. 

 Kjerulf, Prof. Th. Om Skuj-ingsmacrker. From the Author. 

 Kortfattet, Statistisk Haandbog over Kongeriget Norges Inddelinger i 



Administratio, restslig og geistlig Henfeende, M.M. From the Bergen 



Museum. 

 Kuster, H. C. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet von Martini und 



Chemnitz. lOer Band, Heft VIII.-XII. 3er Band, 29 Heft. From 



the Wilson Fund. 

 Lacordaire, M. Th. Nouvelles Suites a Buffoon. Histoire Naturelle des 



Insects, Genera des Coleopteres. Tome 9me, Ire Partie. From the 



Wilson Fund. 

 Lawes, J. B. Exhaustion of the Soil in relation to Landlords' Covenants 



and the Valuation of Unexhausted Improvements. 

 Memoranda of the Plan and Results of Field Experiments. 

 Effects of the Drought of 1870 on some of the Experimental Crops at 



Rothamsted. 

 Scientific Agriculture, with a View to Profit. From the Author. 

 Lea, Isaac. Extra Sheets of Lea's Synopsis of the Genus Unio, for La- 

 belling. From the Author. 

 Lyell, Chas. A number of copies of a reprint on the Oolite Field of Vir- 

 ginia. From Col. Jas. Greer. 

 Lyman, B. S. General Report on the Punjab Oil Lands, with Chart. 



Lahore. 1870. From the Author. 

 Marsh, O. C. Notice of some new Fossil Mammals and Birds, from the 



Tertiary Formation. 

 Description of some new Fossil Serpents from the Tertiary Deposits 



of Wyoming. 

 On the Geology of the Eastern Uintah Mountains. From the Author. 

 Martens, E. v. undB. Langkaval. Donum Bismarkianum, eine Sammlung 



von Siidsee-Conchylien. Berlin, 1871. Purchased. 

 Mason, Jas. W. On a new Acrodont Saurian, from the Chalk. From the 



Author. 

 Contributions to Indian Carcinology. On Indian and Malayan Telphu- 



sidis. Part I. From the Author. 

 On a Case Polydactylism in a Horse. From the Author. 

 Masters, Dr. M. T. and J. H. Gilbert. Reports of Experiments made in 



the Gardens of the Royal Horticultural Society at Chiswick, in 1869, 



on the Influence of various Manures on difi'erent Species of Plants. 



From J. B. Lawes. 

 Mivart, St. George. On the Genesis of Species. Purchased. 

 Monthly Statement of the Treasury Department, No. 4. Series 1870-71. 



From the Department. 



[April 9, 




DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 363 



Morgan, Lewis H. Smitlisonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XXVII. 

 S5'stems of Consanguinity and ilffiuity of tlie Human Family. From 

 the Smithsonian Institution. 



Morreu, Ch. Dodonwa. Parts 1 and 2. From Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Morse, Edw. S. On the Early Stages of Terebratulina scptentrionalis. 

 From the Author. 



Museo Nacional de Lisboa. Seccao Zoologica. Catalogo das CoUecqoes Or- 

 uithologicas. Psittaci, Accipitres. From the Museum. 



Mueller, Dr. C. Walpers. Anuales Botaniccs Systematicae. Tomi Septimi. 

 Fasc. V. VI. From the Wilson Fund. 



Naumaun, Dr. C. F. Anfangsgriinde der Krystallographie. Leipzig, 

 1854. 

 Elemente der theoretischen Krystallographie. Leipzig, 1856. 

 Elcmente der Mineralogie. Leipzig, 1871. 



Neville, G. & II. Descriptions of new Mollusca from the Eastern Regions. 

 From the Authors. 



Neville, H. Enumeratio Heliceorum et Pneumonopomorum Insula " Cey- 

 lon" adhuc dctectorum. From the Author. 



Newberry, J. S. Geological Survey of Ohio. 18G9. Parts 1, 2, 3. From 

 the Author. 



Ninth Census of the United States. Statistics of Population. From the 

 Department of the Interior. 



Oluey, S. T. Algoe Rliodiacete and Carices Boreali-Americanse. Provi- 

 dence, 1871. From the Author. 



Packard, A. S. First Annual Report on the Injurious and Beneficial In- 

 sects of Massachusetts. From the Author. 



Paetel, Fr. Molluscorum Sj'Stema et Catalogus System und Aufziihlung 

 sammtlicher Couchylieu der Sammlung. Dresden, 1869. From 

 Dr. L. W. Schaufuss. 



Peters, Dr. W. Lista de Mammiferos das possess5es portuguezas da Africa 

 occidental e diagnoses de algumas especias novas. From the Author. 



PfeiflFer, L., Dr. W. Dunker, and Dr. E. Romer. Novitates Conchologica?. 

 I. Abth, Land-Conchylien. 37, 38, und 39 Lief II. Abth, Meeres- 

 Conchylien. 18 Lief Supplement III. Monographic der Mollusk- 

 engattung Venus. 26-33 Lief. From the Wilson Fund. 



Playfair,'^Lieut.-Col., R. L. and A. C. L. G. Giinther. The Fishes of Zan- 

 zibar. London, 186G. From Col. Playfair. 



Pleasanton, Gen. A. J. On the Influence of the Blue Color of the Sky in 

 Developing Animal and Vegetable Life. From the Author. 



PoUi, Prof. John. Observations on the Treatment of Zymotic Diseases by 

 the Administration of Sulphites. From the Author. 



Putnam, F. W. Note on the Young of Orthagoriscus mola. From the 

 Author. 



R. Comitato Geologico d'ltalia. Bollettino. Nos. 9 e 10. Anno 1870. 

 Nos. 1-6. 1871. From the Survey of Italy. 



Reeve, L. Conchologia Iconica. Parts 284-289. From the Wilson Fund. 



Report of the Fruit Growers' Association of Ontario, for the Year 1870. 

 Toronto. From the Association. 



Report of the Librarian of Congress. 1870. From the Author. 



Robeson, G. M. Instructions for the Expedition towards the North Pole. 

 From Prof. Henry. 



Rolle, Dr. F. Der Mensch, seine Abstammnng und Gesittung im Lichte 

 der Darwin'schen Lehre. Prag, 1870. From Dr. Henry C. Chap- 

 man. 



Ross, Alex. M. Catalogue of the Birds, Insects, and Squirrels collected in 

 the Vicinity of Toronto, Canada. From the Author. 



Rothrock, H. P. Map of Wyandotte Cave, Crawford County, Indiana. 

 From the Proprietor. 



Safford, Jas. M. Geology of Tennessee. Nashville, 1869. Purchased. 



1872.] 




364 DONATIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Sars, G. O. Carcinologiskc Bidrag til Norgcs Fauna. From the Author. 



Schaufuss, Dr. L. W. Zoologische Mittheiluugen. From the Author. 



Seguin, M. Aine. Memoirc sur les Causes et sur les Effetsde la Chaleur de 

 la Lumiere et de rElectricite. From the Author. 

 Memoire sur I'Aviation ou Navigation Aerieuee. From the Author. 



Seue, C. de. Xe Neve de Justedal et ses Glaciers. From the Author. 



Sharpe, R. B. A Monograph of the Alcedinidaj or Kingfishers. Parts I. to 

 XV. From the Author. 



Smith, Green. Two Charts representing the present generally adopted 

 method of classifying Birds. From the Author. 



Smith, T. Guilford. Report of the Mineral Lands and Resources of the 

 Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company. From the Author. 



Sobrero, A. Notizia Storica dei lavori fatti della Classe di Scienze tisiche e 

 Mathematiche della R. Academia delle Scienze di Torino. Negli 

 Anno 1864 e 1865. From the Academy. 



Souverbie et Montrouzier, JVI.M. Descriptions d'especes nouvelles de 

 I'Archipel Caledonien. From the Author. 



Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Parts XXVI.-XXIX. A 

 Monograph of the Genus Cypr?ea. Purchased. 



Stainton, H. T. The Natural History of the Tineina. Vol. XII. From 

 the Wilson Fund. 



Stearns, R. E. C. Conchological Memoranda. No. VI. From the Author. 



Stimpson, W. The Crustacea and Echinodermata of the Pacific Shores of 

 North America. From Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. Parts 36-41. With Six Maps. From 

 the Geological Survey of Sweden. 



Thiolliere, V. Description des Poissons Fossiles provenant des Gisements 

 Coralliens du Jura dans le Bugey. Ire Livr. Purchased. 



Troschel, Dr. F. H. Das Gebiss der Schnecken. 2en Bandes, 3e Lief. 

 Berlin, 1869. Purchased. 



Tuomey, M. Second Biennial Report on the Geology of Alabama. Geo- 

 logical Map. From T. Guilford Smith. 



Twenty-ISve duplicate pamphlets ou Entomology, Botany, and Geology. 

 From Dr. H. C. Wood, Jr. 



Walker, Francis. Notes ou Chalcidiae. Parts III. and IV. From the 

 Author. 

 A list of Hymenoptera collected by J. K. Lord, in Egypt, in the neigh- 

 borhood of the Red Sea, and in Arabia. From the Author. 



Wallace, Alfred R. The Malay Archipelago. New York, 1869. Pur- 

 chased. 



Walsh, B. D. On the Insects, Coleopterous, Hymenopterous, and Dipte- 

 rous, inhabiting the Galls of certain Species of Willows. From Dr. 

 H. C. Woods, Jr. 



Wheatley, Chas. M. Notice of the Discovery of a Cave in Eastern Penn- 

 sylvania, containing remains of Mastodon, Tapir, Megalonyx, My- 

 lodon, etc., and other post-pliocene Species. From the Author. 



Winchell, Alex. Report on the Progress of the State Geological Survey of 

 Michigan. Nov. 23, 1870. Lansing, 1871. From the Author. 



Wood, Rev.'j. G. The Natural History of Man. Vol. II. London, 1870. 

 Purchased. 



Worthen, A. H. Geological Survey of Illinois. Vol. IV. Chicago, 1870. 

 From the Author. 



Wymann, Jeffries. Experiments with Vibrating Cilia. From the Author. 



Zeiifuss, Dr. G. The Pneumatic Sewage System. Cologne, 1869. From 

 the Author. 



[April 9, 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



365 



i:^rDEX TO GENERA. 



Abies 107 



Abra 138 



Acara 255 



Accipiter 27 



Acer 101 



Achelons 120 



Achillea 116 



Achrochordus 202 



Actsea 239 



Actodromas 30 



Aciis 144 



^cidiiim 296 



^gialitis 28 



Agalychnis 205 



AgelfBus 24 



Agrostis 116 



Aix 36 



Alligator 48 



Allorisma 70, 167 



Alpheus 242 



Alj'ssum Ill 



Amblyopsis 297 



Ambouychia 319 



Ambrosia 110 



Amia 105 



Amiva 216, 218, 220, 221, 222 



Ammodromus 22 



Amphidesma '. 128, 138 



Anacyrtus • 266 



Analis 205 



Anapbthalmus 297 



Anas 36 



Aucistrodon 48, 205, 206, 209 



Anchitherium 118, 199 



Anicuhis 240 



Anodonta 188 



Anolis 200, 213, 218, 220 



Anomia 131 



Anosteira 103, 114 



Anostomus 258 



Anser 98 



Anthus 19 



Apbyocharax 260, 291 



Aplysia 140 



Aralia 106 



1872.] 



Area 129, 133 



Archgescaris 335 



Arcnseus 121 



Arctomys 230 



Ardea 33 



Asphidium 53 



Astarte 134 



Astcrias 148 



Atelopus 205, 222 



Aulastomum 306 



Avicula 133 



Aviciilopecten 60, 101, 178 



Aythya 37 



Baena 228 



Balaena 13 



Balauus 125 



Bascanion 49 



Bellerophou 77 



Bernicla 36 



Bittium 143 



Botanriis 34 



Bothriechis 204, 206, 207 



Botliriocephalus 306 



Bothriopsis 206, 208 



Bothrops 204 



Bonvardia 53 



Bracliyotus 27 



Brancbiostoma 129 



Brocbis 112, 277, 291 



Brycon 261 



Bucepbala 37 



Bufo 205, 216, 219 



Bulla 140 



Busycon 129, 144 



Butorides 33 



Cacabocrinns 59 



Calidris 31 



Callicbtbys 275, 277 



Callinectes... 120 



Callopbysus 293 



Caloptenus 149 



Camilia 200 



Campeloma 181 




366 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Cancellaria 146 



Cancer 120 



Capritblium 107 



Carapus 2r)7 



Cardinalis 24 



Cardiomorpha 72, 327 



Cardita 134 



Cardium 134 



Cariacus 13 



Carpilius 239 



Cassia 117 



Cassis 143 



Cathartes 27 



Catherpes 233 



Catostoma 212 



Caudisona 48, 204 



Cauloxenus 297 



Ceiiobita 241 



Ceratiocaris 332 



Cercis 106 



Cercomya 71 



Cerithiopsis 144 



Cerithium 141 



Ceromya 328 



Ceromyopsis 328 



Cevyle 26 



Cetopsis 292 



Clia>tostoma 286 



Chalceus 262 



Clialcinus 265 



Cliama 134 



Cliaracidium 259, 291 



Charadrius 28 



Chaiilelasmus 36 



Chelouia 49 



Cbersydrus 202 



Chettusia 194 



Chioiie 136 



Chiton 140 



Chordeiles 26 



Chrcecocephalus 40 



Clirysomitris 21 



Cichla 291 



Cimex 295 



Circus 27 



Cissus 118 



Cistothorus 20 



Clidastes 104 



Clinopistlia 67 



Cnemidopboi-us 47, 216 



Coccygus 27 



Cochlodcsma 139 



Colaptes 27 



Colobognathus 205, 211 



Colophrys 212 



Columbella 143 



Colymbus 47 



Coniopbanes 204, 216 



Couocardium 65 



Conopbis 204 



Contia 223 



Conularia 84 



Convolvulus 117 



Corbula 139 



Gorydoras 112, 277, 278 



Corylbopbanes 200 



Corvus 26 



Cotyle 21 



Crataegus 107 



Crenicicbla 252 



Crcpidula 140 



Crocodilus 104 



Cumingia 138 



Curimatus 258, 291 



Cyclonema 79 



Cyclura 205, 216 



Cyprrea 143 



Cypricardina 162 



Cyrtoceras 86 



Cytbere 331 



Cytberea 136 



Dafila 36 



Dahnanites 91 



Delpbinus 13 



Deudroeca 21 



Deutzia 52 



Diancma 112, 276, 291 



Dibotbrium 306 



Didelpbys 15 



Dion?ea 118 



Dipbicus 157 



Diplodonta 134 



Dipsas 204 



Dolabra 326 



Dolatocriuus 57 



Dolicbonyx 24 



Dobum 143 



Donax 137 



Doras 55, 270, 293 



Dosinia . : 137 



Dromicus 201, 218, 222 



Dryiopbis 204 



Edestosaurus 298 



Edmondia 72 



Elaps 203, 204, 209, 216 



Elotberium 10 



Empidonax 234 



Emys 103, 154, 155, 228 



Entabs 140 



Epicrates 205 



Epigrea 52 



Equus 50, 113 



Ereunetes 31 



Eripbia 239 



Erytbrolamprus 203, 204 



Etiieostoma 259 



[April 9, 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



set 



Eulima 143 



Eupaii-urus 124 



Euphorbia 296 



Falco 27, 94 



Fasciolavia 147 



Fenestella 159 



Fiber 14 



Fissurella 141 



Fraxinus 110, 245 



Fulix 37 



Fundulus 217 



Galeodes 295 



Gallinag-o 30 



Gambetta 32 



Gasteropelecus 265 



Gastrochteua 139 



Garzetta 33 



Gebia 242 



Gelasimus 121 



Gemma 136 



Geopliagus 250, 291 



Geotlilj^iis 20 



Gleditschia 106, 107 



Glyptocrinus 314 



Glvptosaurus 105 



Goniodactylus 200, 222 



Gordius 306 



Graculus 38 



Grammysia 72 



Grapsus 240 



Gymuocladus 106 



Gyroceras 87 



Hadrohyus 248 



Halesia 107 



Heligettis 27 



Haliplaua 46 



Hamamelis . . . .' 295 



Helicops 222 



Helix 147 



Hemidactylus 218, 220 



Hemiodus 291 



Hepatus 124 



Herodias 33 



Heros 254 



Herpetodryas 204 



Heterocrinus 308 



Himantodes 201 



Hippa 124, 240 



Hipparion 112 



Hirundo 21, 306 



Holcodus 298 



Holopea 172 



Holotaxis 257 



Homalochilus 218 



Homarus 124 



Hoplosternum 277 



1872.] 



Hybemys 103 



Hydrochelidon 4G 



Hydrolycus 292 



Hydrops 216, 217 



Hygrogouus 256. 291 



Hyla -49, 219, 223 



Hyperanodou 223 



Hyposaurus 104 



Hypsirhynclius 318 



HyracUyus 229 



Hyracodon 229 



Icterus 24 



Iguanodectes 260, 291 



Ih'onassa 143 



Isocardia 183 



Isonema 79 



Ilea 107 



Lcemolyta 358 



Lagopus 96 



Laris 108 



Larus 39 



Lasiurus 14 



Leda 133 



Lepidosteus 105 



Leporinus 259 



Lepotophis 49 



Leptodira 204 



Leptognathus 204 



Lepus 14, 96 



Libinia 120 



Lilium 117 



Lima 131 



Limax 147 



Limosa 32 



Limulus 125, 139 



Lindemia 157 



Lingula 125 



Lingulella 185 



Liocardium 134 



Liocephalus 218 



Liodou 397 



Liopliis 204, 233 



Liposarcus 384, 292 



Liriodendron 106 



Lithodytcs 216, 319 



Littorina 141 



Loligo 126 



Louicera 107 



Lophiodon 9, 239 



Loricaria 389 



Loxouema 174 



Lucina 63, 134 



Lucinopsis 137 



Lupa 339 



Lutra 13 



Lj'nx 13 



Lyonsia 139 




3G8 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Mabuia 



Macroclicilus 



Macrodon 



Macrorhampus 



Mactra 



Magnolia...: 106, 



Malacoclemys 



Mareca 



Marginclla 



MasFicophis 204, 



Mastodon 50, 113, 



Megalobiycon 2G2, 



Megambonia 



Melampus 



Melospiza 



Menippc 120, 



Mercenaria 



Mergus 



Mesonauta 



Mesops 



Mimulus 



Mimns 



Mitchella 



Mithraculns 



Modiola 



Modiolopsis 



Murcliisonia 81, 



Murex 



Mus 



Mya 



Myalina 127, 



Mviozetetes 



Myletes 55, 267, 



Mysops 



Mytilus 



328 

 257 



30 

 137 

 109 



49 



36 

 143 

 216 

 198 

 291 

 321 

 147 



22 

 239 

 134 



37 

 254 

 527 

 115 



19 



52 

 239 

 134 

 323 

 175 

 147 



14 

 139 

 139 

 234 

 291 

 232 

 134 



Nassa 144 



Natica 142 



Naticopsis 76 



Nautilus 88 



Nerodia 48 



Nettiou 36 



Neverita 143 



Ninia 200, 205 



Nothopsis 201 



Nucula 133 



Numenius 32 



Nyctea 96 



Obeliscus 142 



Octopus 126 



Ocypode 122, 240 



Odostomia 142 



Oedemia 37 



Oestoceplialus 53 



Oliva 142 



Olivella 143 



Omalacantha 238 



Ophlbolus 48, 200 



Ophiopliragmum 148 



Ophisaurus 48 



Opomola 151 



Oreodon 248 



Orthoceras 172, 330 



Orthonema 81 



Ortyx 28 



Osteoglossum 257, 391 



Ostrca 131 



Otocinclus 112, 283, 291 



Oxybelis 216 



Oxyn-hopus 201, 216 



Pachychelcs 225 



Palfemou 124, 225 



Pala3otlierium 114, 118 



Palceosyops 114, 118, 197, 229 



Panfcus 243 



Pandion 27 



Pandora 139 



Panopsea 139 



Panopoeus 120, 239 



Panulirus 225,242 



Paramys 231 



Pariodon 55, 290, 292 



Pariolius 289, 291 



Parula 20 



Passerculus 21 



Pecten 131 



Pectunculus 132 



Pelamis 204 



Pelccanus 37 



Pelidua 30 



Pcllona 256 



Peneus 124 



Persephona 123 



Petricola 137 



Petrolisthes 240 



Phallus 297 



Philypnus 217 



Plioladomya 71 



Pliolas 139 



Phvactoceplialus 292 



Phrynosoma 305 



Pilumnus 120 



Pinielodus 270 



Pinna 133 



Pinnotheres 123 



Pinus 101, 107 



Pipilo 24 



Piramutana 292 



Platyceras 73, 170 



Platyonychus 120 



Platyostoma 169 



Plecostomus 55, 285, 292 



Pleurotomaria 81, 143, 176 



Plicatula 131 



Plioccrcus 200- 



Plistodon 216 



[April 9, 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



3G9 



Podiceps 47 



Podilymbus 47 



Podocncmis 232 



Poeciliclithys 259 



Polyccra 140 



Porthidium 206, 207 



Porzaiia 35 



Poterocrinites 310 



Procyon 12 



Pbylodactylus 205 



Physopyxis 112, 273, 291 



Prochilodus 258 



Productus 74 



Proetus 89 



Progne 21 



Protoliippus 50 



Pseudorhamdia 2G9 



Pseudotremia 297 



Pterinca 162 



Pterophyllum 250, 291 



Ptilodictya 63, 160, 317 



Puffinus 38 



Purpura 143 



Putorius 12 



Pyranga 21 



Pyrula 145 



Quercus 155 



Querquedula 36 



Quiscalus 25 



Rfeta 137 



Rallus 34 



Pana 49 



Ranclla 147 



Ranula 222 



Rapana 144 



Raphidophora 297 



Reduvius 51 



Recurvirostra 33 



Renilla . . .' 129 



Retzia 318 



Rhadina^a 204, 212 



Rliyacopliilus 32 



Rhinoceros 10, 248 



Rliinodoras 292 



Rliyncliops 46 



Roeboides 55, 265, 292 



Rubus 296 



Salix 109 



Salmo 305 



Sanguinolites 68 



Sauropleura 53 



Scalaria 141 



Scalops 14 



Sceloporus 205, 216 



Schizodus 72, 165 



Sciuravus 230 



1872.] 



Sciurus 14 



Scytopis 223 



Sedgwickia 71, 323 



Scmele 138 



Semicassis '. 143 



Serrasalmo 268, 293 



Sesaima 121 



Sigaretus 142 



Siliquaria 138 



Sinopa 116 



Smilisca 205 



Solarium 141 



Solemya 139 



Soleu 138 



Soleniscus 329 



Soleuomya 66 



Spbaerodactylus 216, 218 



Spilotes 204 



Spirifer 179 



Squatarola 29 



Stegophilus 55, 290 



Stenorhina 205 



Sterna 43 



Sternopygus 257 



Stetbapriou 261, 291 



Stictopora 63 



Strepsilas 39 



Streptacis 173 



Strigilla 138 



Strix 27 



Strombus 147 



Sturnella 25 



Stylcmys 248 



Sula 38 



Symbranchus 290 



Synipbemia 32 



Symphj'sodon 291 



Systoma 216 



Tantilla 204 



Tienia 53 



Teleuraspis 206 



Tellina 138 



Telmatodytes 19 



Testudo 154 



Tetragonopterus 217, 260, 291 



Titanotherium 114 



Thalasseus 42 



Tbrasops 200, 304, 318 



Thryothorus 19 



Torenia 118, 157 



Trachycepbalus 219 



Trichomycterus 289 



Triforis 143 



Trigonocephalus 203 



Tringoides 33 



Triouyx 154,338 



Tripoi-theus 263, 291 



Trochita 83 




3T0 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Trochoceras 88 



Troclionema 82 



Trogosus 115, 229 



Tryplieropsis 205 



Turbo 141 



Turbonilla 142 



Turdiis 19 



Tyranuus 26 



Uarus 253 



Uca 240 



Ungualia 218 



Unio 188 



Utriculus 140 



Vandellia 55 



Verbascum 296 



Vermetus 141 



Virco 21 



Viviparus 182 



Vulpes 12 



Xenodermus 202 



Xipliopliorus 217 



Xiphostoma 267 



Yoldia 133 



Zathorax 112, 271, 291 



Zeiiffidura 28 



Zizyphinus 141 



Zonotrichia 22 



J 



[April 9, 




GENERAL INDEX. 



371 



GEN^EEAL IN^DEX. 



Adams, Rev. E. E., Announcement 



of deiitli of, 297. 

 Amendment of By-laws, 103. 



Cavada, Gen. F. F., Announcement 

 of death of, 297. 



Cohen, J. J., M.D., Announcement 

 of death of, 56. 



Cope, E. D., Observations on Sauro- 

 pleura remex, 53 ; On Fishes from 

 the Amazon River, 55 ; On some of 

 the Siluroids of the Amazon,' 113 ; 

 On the Fishes of the Ambyiacu 

 River, 117, 250; On Plectognathi 

 and Lophobranchii, 157 ; Contri- 

 butions to the Herpetoloiiy of Tro- 

 pical America, No. 9, 198, 200 ; On 

 a species of Galeodes, 295 ; On the 

 Fauna of the Wyandotte Cave, 

 297 ; On fossil reptiles from the 

 Cretaceous of Western Kansas, 

 297 ; On a peculiar habit in Phry- 

 nosoma, 305. 



Correspondence during 1871, 348. 



Coues, E., Notes on the Natural His- 

 tory of Fort Macon, N. C, and 

 vicinity. No. 1 ; 9, 12. Same, No. 

 2 ; 112, 120. 



Donations to the Library, 351. 



Dumeril, Prof C, Announcement of 

 death of, 102. 



Button, Lieut., On Silurian and De- 

 vonian Brachiopoda, 112. 



Election of officers, 346. 

 Electious during 1871, 347. 



Gentry, Mr., On Alyssum calycinum, 

 Linn., 111. 



Holbrook, J. E., M.D., Announce- 

 ment of death of, 237. 

 18T2.] 



Lea, I., Descriptions of twenty new 

 species of Unionida^ of the United 

 States, 157, 189 ; Description of 

 three new species of Exotic Unio- 

 nidns, 188. 



Lawrence, Geo. N., Descriptions of 

 new species of Birds of the families 

 Troglodytida3 and Tyrannida?, 233. 



Leidy, Jos., On a small collection of 

 fossils from California, 50; Remarlis 

 on Tfenia mediocauellata, 53 ; On 

 some extinct Turtles from Wyo- 

 ming Territory, 102 ; On Poly- 

 da ctylism in a Horse, 112 ; On re- 

 mains of Mastodon and Horse in 

 North Carolina, 113; Remains of 

 extinct mammals from Wyoming, 

 113; Remarks, on a fossil Tcstudo 

 from Wyoming, 154 ; Remarks on 

 supposed fossil Turtle Eggs, 154, 

 Remarks on the Garnets of Green's 

 Creek, Delaware Co., 155; Remarks 

 on donation of fossils from Wyo- 

 ming, 197 ; Remarks on Mastodon, 

 etc.," of California, 198; Note on 

 Ancliitherium, 199 ; Remarks on 

 fossil Vertebrates from Wyoming, 

 228 ; Notice of some extinct Ro- 

 dents, 230 ; Remarks on the Mine- 

 rals of Mount Mica, 245 ; Remarks 

 on fossils of Oregon, 247 ; Flics as 

 means of communicating Conta- 

 gious Diseases, 297 ; Notice of some 

 Worms, 305. 



Marsh, O. C, On a tooth of Lophio 

 don, 9 ; On new reptiles and lishcs 

 from the Cretaceous and Tertiary 

 Formations, 103. 



Marshall, Benj., Announcement of 

 death of, 103. 



Meehan, Thos., On a pear presenting 

 the external appearance of an ap- 




312 



GENERAL INDEX. 



pie, 10 ; Remarks on Reduvius no- 

 venarius, 51 ; Remarks on Bonvar- 

 dia leiantha and Deutzia gracilis, 



. 52 ; On the Fascicles of Pinus 

 mitis and on Acer rubrum, 101 ; 

 Morphology of the Carpellary 

 Scales in Larix, 106 ; On the Flow- 

 ers of Magnolia purpurea, 109 ; On 

 Ambrosia artemisia?folia, 110 ; On 

 the Growing Force of Plants and 

 on the shape of Cotyledons, 116 ; 

 On the Stigma of Toreuia Asiatica 

 and the Tendril of Cissus Amazo- 

 nica, 118 ; On the Cotyledons of 

 Quercus, 155 ; On bud scales and 

 involucral bracts, 245 ; on the seeds 

 of Hamamelis Virginica, 295 ; On 

 the angular divergence in the 

 brandies of plants, 295. 



Meek, F. B., Descriptions of new 

 species of Invertebrate fossils from 

 the Carboniferous and Devonian 

 Rocks of Ohio, 51, 57 ; Descriptions 

 of new species of fossils from Ohio 

 and other Western States and Ter- 

 ritories, 117, 159 ; Notice of a new 

 Brachiopod from the Lead-bearing 

 rocks at Mine La Motte, Mo., 157, 

 185 ; Descriptions of new Western 

 Palasozoic fossils, mainly from the 

 Cincinnati Groups of the Lower 

 Silurian Series of Ohio, 305, 308. 



Morris, Stephen, Announcement of 

 death of, 119. 



Murchison, Sir Roderick I., An- 

 nouncement of death of, 305. 



Newton, Prof. A., On certain species 

 of FalconidfE, Tetraonidse, and 

 Anatidse, 51, 94. 



Ogden, J. A., Synopsis of the genus 

 Chettusia (Lobivanellus) with a de- 

 scription of anew species, 158, 194. 



Orne, James H., Announcement of 

 death of, 305. 



Peale, C. W., Announcement of death 

 of, 245. 



Rand, 



and 



and 



Repor 



Repor 



Repor 



340. 



Repor 



Repor 



and 



Repor 



343. 



Theo. D., Notes on Feldspars 



other Minerals of Philadelphia 



vicinity, 295, 299. 



t of Librarian, 337. 



t of Curators, 338. 



t of the Botanical Committee, 



t of Recording Secretary, 341 . 

 t of Recorder of Microscopical 

 Biological Section, 341. 

 ts of the Conchological Section, 



Streets, T. Hale, Descriptions of five 

 new species of Crustacea from 

 Mexico, 198, 225 ; Catalogue of 

 Crustacea from the Isthmus of Pa- 

 nama, collected by J. A. McNeil, 

 237, 238. 



Thomas, Prof. C, Contributions to 



Orthopterology, 117, 149. 

 Turnbull, W. P., Announcement of 



death of, 198. 



Wetherill, Chas. M., M. D., An- 

 nouncement of death of, 103. 



Wharton, Jos., On Silver Islet, Lake 

 Superior, 56. 



[April 9, 1872.] 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF :N'ATURAL SCIEl!^CES. 



January 16. 



conversational meeting. 



Prof. J. H. McQuiLLEN in the chair. 



Twelve members present. 



The attention of the Section was asked by Prof. James Tyson, 

 to a simple diagram which he had been in the habit of using in 

 his lectures, for several years past, to impress upon students the 

 circumstances under which the reversal of lisihts and shadows takes 

 place in red blood-corpuscles while under microscopic examina- 

 tion. The familiar " cracker shape" of the corpuscle being ac- 

 knowledged, and supposing the entire corpuscle in focus when 

 there is the least shadow, it is plain that the central portion is a 

 double concave lens, while the periphery will act as a double con- 

 vex lens. The centre of the corpuscle will therefore cause the 

 parallel rays r r r to disperse and pass beyond the corpuscle, 




2 PROCEEDINGS OP THE 



diverging as though coming from the negative focus N, which is 

 the point to be focussed by the object-glass to make the centre 

 bright. But to do this, the object-glass must approximate the 

 corpuscle, hence it becomes within the focus for the entire cor- 

 puscle. But when this is the case the periphery of the corpuscle 

 is dark, because acting as a double convex lens it causes the 

 parallel rays r' r' r' coming from the mirror to converge and to 

 come to a focus at the point P, above the corpuscle. Now, to 

 make the periphery appear bright, the point P must be focussed. 

 But to focus this, the object-glass must be removed from the 

 corpuscle, since the rays must again diverge before they can 

 again be made to form an image, and in so doing the object- 

 glass is placed "beyond the focus." When this is the case, 

 however, the centre is no longer in focus, and, therefore, ap- 

 pears dark while the periphery is bright. In the opposite posi- 

 tion, or when the objective is within the focus, the centre is bright 

 and the periphery dark. The diagram can easil3^ be carried in 

 the mind's eye, and at once the facts can be thought out with- 

 out troubling with their recollection the memory, which is here 

 particularly apt to be treacherous. Indeed, the speaker said 

 that he could never recollect the circumstances under which the 

 centre was bright and the periphery dark, and vice versa, until 

 he had called to his aid this diagram. And that the exact circum- 

 stances are liable, at least, to escape attention, is seen in the fact 

 that in a work of no less acknowledged value than the seventh 

 edition of "Carpenter's Human Physiology" (1869) is contained 

 a misstatement of the facts. We find, on page 200, the object- 

 glass described as being rather beyond the focus of the micro- 

 scope when the peripher}^ is dark and the centre bright, and 

 within the focus in the opposite appearance — that is, when the 

 centre is dark and the periphery bright. They should be re- 

 versed. In the last edition (1868) of Carpenter on the Micro- 

 scope, however (pages 166, 167), we find the principle applied 

 and the fact correctly stated, though a few lines further we 

 fiud it stated that the hexagonal areola in diatoms appear dark 

 when the surface is slightly beyond the focus, when they are 

 described as hexagonal elevations ; if the latter be the case, then 

 they should ajopear dark ivhen within the focus, as is the case 

 with the periphery of the corpuscle. So, too, on page 110 of the 

 latter volume there is reproduced the same drawing referred to 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 3 



in the text-book on physiology, but with the description reversed? 

 and therefore correct. The corpuscle is, however, described as in 

 focus when the periphery' is in focus. Of the other text-books 

 now within our reach, Dalton has it correcth' on page 214 of his 

 third edition ; Flint, Kirke, Ranke in his " Grundziige der Physio- 

 losfie," and Strieker in his "Handbuch der Lehre von den Gewe- 

 ben," refer to the reversal of light and shadow, but do not state 

 the circumstances under which it takes place. Marshall makes 

 no allusion to it. 



Dr. McQ,uillen exhibited five microscopical specimens pre- 

 pared by Dr. George D. Harrlman, of Boston, consisting of 

 dentine, cementum, and bone, which had been acted upon by 

 dilute muriatic acid removing the earthy salts and leaving the 

 cartilaginous ba^s of which those structures are composed, the 

 latter of which had then been stained with carmine. These speci- 

 mens had been prepared with a view of demonstrating that dentine 

 does not consist of tubular and intertubular structures; also that 

 in cementum and bone the lacunae and canaliculi are not empty 

 spaces, but occupied by a soft solid body or substance. 



Fiff. 1. 



February 6. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell in the chair. 



Sixteen members present. 



Mr. William H. Walmslej^ exhibited slides showing the differ- 

 ence between the torn edge of our ordinar3^ paper and that of the 

 thick, strong paper used by the Chinese for the manufacture of 

 clothing. Both appeared to be composed of cotton, but the foreign 

 article bore the aspect of being made directl}^ 

 from the cotton fibres, instead of from com- 

 minuted woven fabrics. 



Dr. McQuillen directed attention to a re- 

 markable specimen of hypertrophy of the roots 

 of a left superior molar measuring 2^ inches 

 in length by 2f inches in circumference, and 

 weighing 12^ dwts. (Fig. 1), which he had ex- 

 hibited at a previous meeting and of which he 

 had promised to make a microscopical ex- 

 amination. This he had done, and now sub- 




4 PROCEEDINGS OP THE 



mittod the results under the microscope in three sections taken 

 from the same locality, one being under the other. 



As he had anticipated, the growth proved to be hypertrophy of 

 the cementum, one of the three hard structures entering into the 

 formation of the human tooth, viz., enamel, cementum, and dentine. 

 The term exostosis, frequently applied to this growth, was open 

 to exception on account of the fact that there are certain charac- 

 teristic differences between cementum and bone, which any one at 

 all familiar with the microscopical anatomy of these two struc- 

 tures will readily recognize. 



With a view of making these differences apparent to those 

 unacquainted with the subject, he had placed under one of the 

 microscopes a section of bone. This specimen shows a trans- 

 verse section of the Haversian canals with the lacunje and can- 

 aliculi arranged around them in concentric laminae. In the 

 cementum, on the contrary, canals for the passage of blood- 

 vessels are rarel}'^ seen, while the lacunse and canaliculi are quite 

 numerous. 



The three sections from the hypertrophied structure differ from 

 each other in a somewhat remarkable manner, when taking into 

 consideration the fact that they had been in such close contiguity. 



In the first or outer section the lacunae and canaliculi are pre- 

 sented in the usual arrangement of cementum. In the second 

 section, taken immediately under it, there are, in addition to the 

 lacunae and canaliculi, a number of irregular spaces; while in the 



Fiff. 2. 



third section (Fig. 2) the lacunae are largely increased, and the 

 canaliculi are more numerous and increased in length, running 




BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 5 



in a spiral direction analogous to dentinal tubuli in secondary 

 dentine. 



Dr. F. W. Lewis inquired what diflference there was between 

 these exostoses and epulis. 



Dr. James Tyson remarked that, microscopically, true epulis 

 is a fibrous tissue, and springs from the mucous membrane, 

 although the giant-celled myeloid tumor (giant-celled sarcoma of 

 Yirchow) generally springs from bone, and is sometimes incor- 

 rectly called epulis. With regard to the nature of cementum, Dr. 

 T. suggested that it seemed more philosophical to place it in the 

 same category with bone, since it only differed from true osseous 

 tissue in the absence of Haversian canals for minute bloodvessels, 

 which were unnecessary on account of the close contiguity of 

 the structure (cementum) to its vascular supply. 



Dr. Tyson also showed an ingenious gastric canula, improved 

 b}' himself by the addition of a cover and catch for preventing 

 the loss of gastric juice, an accident which is constantly occurring 

 with the ordinary cauula in consequence of the animal's scratch- 

 ing out the cork after the instrument is adjusted in the fistula 

 from the stomach. 



• 



February 20. 

 conversational meeting. 

 Seven members present. 



March 6. 

 Director S. W. Mitchell, M.D., in the chair. 

 Eight members present. 



The Corresponding Secretary presented photographs of the test 

 Diatoms Surirella gemma and Amphi2)leura pellucida (the latter 

 exhibiting 91,000 strias to the inch) from Col. J. J. Woodward, of 

 the Army Medical Museum at Washington, and moved a vote of 

 thanks for the same, which was carried unanimously. 



Dr. J. H. McQuillen exhibited half a dozen microscopical slides, 

 handed to him by Dr. R. W. Yarney, of New York, viz. : Trans- 

 verse section of the maxilla of a cat, with the incisors, canines, 

 and molar teeth in position ; nodules of secondary dentine ; sec- 




b ' PROCEEDINGS OF THE 



tion of hypertrophied root of a molar tooth ; heraipterous insect 

 (Tirtgis arcuata); longitudinal section of a deciduous incisor and 

 of a molar tooth. Dr. McJ^^uillen directed particular attention 

 to the last-named specimen as having a practical significance 

 bearing upon the diseases and treatment of the teeth. Under the 

 microscope a fissure (Fig. 3) inappreciable to the naked eye could 



Fig. 3. 



be seen passing through the enamel and enlarging into an oval 

 cavity near the junction with tlie dentine, also a number of inter- 

 globular spaces in the dentine in close proximity to the fissure 

 in the enamel. This fissure and the interglobular spaces, being 

 due to defective formation, are therefore predisposing causes of 

 decay. While such a fissure would be inappreciable to the naked 

 eye, a delicate probe would readily pass into it, and a tooth found 

 in such a condition should be filled immediatel}', so as to prevent 

 the development of caries ; for so long as acids, decomposed 

 food, and other exciting causes are prevented from coming into 

 contact with the defective dentine, the predisposing cause remains 

 dormant. This specimen closely demonstrates the importance of 

 promptly filling the small cavities formed in the depressions on 

 the grinding, buccal, and lingual surfaces of the bicuspids and 

 molars, and on the palatine surface of the incisors and canines. 




biological and microscopical department 7 



April 3. 

 Director S. "W. Mitchell, M.D., in the chair. 



Eight members present. 



A donation from the Surgeon-General's office of Dr. J. J. Wood- 

 ward's interesting report, entitled "A Memorandum of the Test 

 Podura, with Five Photo-micrographs," was received. 



Dr. James Tj'son exhibited slides of the deposit from two speci- 

 mens of urine from a so-called intermittent haematuria, which were 

 interesting, if not important, from the fact that the first specimen, 

 though containing granular casts, did not contain blood-corpuscles, 

 and that the second, between which and the first the urine had 

 become quite clear, contained, in addition to granular casts, blood- 

 corpuscles and blood-casts. The importance of this observation 

 lies in the circumstance that in the cases of intermittent hema- 

 turia reported by Harlej^ {Medico- Cliirurgical Transactions^ vol. 

 48, 1865), blood-corpuscles were exceedingly rare, being found in 

 but a single case, and not more than one or two in the field of the 

 microscope. So rarely, indeed, have corpuscles been present, that 

 Dr. Beale, in the first volume of the Practitioner^ August, 1868, 

 says that "it is therefore improbable that in these cases there is 

 any hemorrhage as in acute inflammation of the kidneys, and they 

 ought not to be spoken of as cases of haeiuaturia." 



In the present case all the other phenomena of intermittent 

 haematuria attend, and in the second specimen of urine there are 

 many free blood-corpuscles and blood-casts, while in the first the 

 most careful searching detected none. 



The treatment found most useful in intermittent hasmaturia, 

 that b}' antiperiodic doses of quinia, preceded by a purgative 

 dose of calomel, has been the most satisfactory, there being no 

 recurrence since its adoption, although three weeks have elapsed, 

 while other modes of treatment adopted since October, 1870, when 

 the affection first appeared, have signally failed.* 



Dr. Joseph G. Richardson exhibited a slide charged with pul- 

 monary elastic tissue from the boiled sputa of a phthisical 

 patient in the Episcopal Hospital, and called the attention of the 



' July 1st, 1871. The patient has since quite recovered under this treat- 

 ment. 




8 BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL DEPARTMENT. 



Section to some characteristics of the elastic fibres, to wit, first, 

 the Delta (a) rather than simple Y shape frequent among the 

 fragments, which he attributed to the greater resistance at the 

 meeting-point of the walls of three air-vesicles to any disinte- 

 grating process ; and second, the transverse fracture of its com- 

 ponent elastic filaments, resembling that of an India-rubber thread, 

 instead of displaying a frayed-out appearance similar to that pre- 

 sented at the extremity of a broken cotton or linen string. 



By these peculiarities pulmonary elastic tissue can generally be 

 distinguished from folds in the walls of boiled-stai'ch corpuscles ; 

 from mycelial threads of fungi (which, when dichotomous, often 

 have stem and branches of nearly the same size) ; and from vege- 

 table fibres, which seldom break transversely, and which, when 

 split, generally assume the Y and not the Delta shape. ( Vide 

 paper on the Detection of Lung Tissue in Sputum, in the Neto 

 York State Medical Society'' s Transactions for 1871.) 




PtocAN.S 1871, 



Plate 1 . 





^ 



-r-^nX^-'i'^-^^^^'^-t^--^^ - 



HANNAH T.SMALLWOOD 



Ch&ttiisicL nivifroTis, Oqd£fv. 





Proc.ANS 1871 



Plate 2 



HAMNylH r SMAlllVOOD. 



St/'eets orvl\re*t^Mex7caJvCriista.cecL^ 





s 



^ 



f^ 







o 



e 

 'sj 





o 





^ e 







<N 



Gc 



o 









PL. YIIT. 



1. Iguanodectes tenuis. \a. Dentition. 2. Characidium etheostotna, denii- 

 tion. 3. Triportheus albus, dentition. 





^roc.ANS. 1871. 



Plate 9 



1 





i. jinacyrtu-s sangaiTLeUyS 2 Serrasalmo xrulopsis 3. J3rochis coeriileivs. 



UliLStrated'by fhtBart 





r-cc ANS. ]87i. 



-iate !0. 



(, / I'll ii:',,ilc( ,^.j, //, ,f J .,/.s . 

 2 \fryr(/nfjr\(„/t crrlhro/jferus . 





oc. AXS.lSTi 



k^M^ 



Plat 





'V'^' 



^:^# 



:^xtM"W- 







7. f^rCfjpTiacfiis bddTipinnis . .2 Tfarusrp/Ur<'7/-ch(jide^. 



4 Arora.flavilabn/s Cope 



S Arcn-a syspiias. 



'iSiii:'''S->DJ:l.. 





Proc.AiN.S.1871 



# 



;M 



.f:, 



■'■^, 



n:^ 



'^-:: r^^x ^^:^^^.^_ > < - 



^ 



BDWJN StIEPPARO Of. 



J iryUtesal/jusr^jpv.s. 1' J£ ocmIxu-^ 

 '^' ^I . Jiez-riitifiusCope . 





CD 



■I-' 



.^^^ 



I.. 





N 



Co 



-^ 



I 



o 



Co 







o 

 o 

 X 









•-i?^' 



;rj2J^i:yYAJii 



J 



"^■T- 



% 



EDWm ShCPPAfSRD^l, 



7 Th^iortJwa^r fUtviis. 2 T. al/jjzs. .'>' CftaLcjJuj.s cuJJer 

 •/'. S, CoILr cTttJiys 7n^la./7ipCems Cnpn 





oc /v.iN- ;b io/i. 



] /iijj-asgryp/us . H C/ia^tosiX)T7u.u5 t&cfzr-^tstris .3* C/vrr^etostomius cdqa C/)j}e 





I 1 



OO 



% 



d 

 o 



>. 







CO 



d 

 O 



.\:v,<i 





-^ 



A' V » A. 




>A/J 



Hk 








