



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA 



1890. 



committee of publication: 

 Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 



'1891. 




^A-'. 



^'j 



Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. 



February 13, 1891. 



I hereby certify that copies of the Proceedings for 1890 have been presented 

 at the meetings of the Academy as follows : — ' 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

 BINDER i KELLY, PRINTERS. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



IVith refei'ence to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



PAGE. 

 Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the distribution of color-marks in the Pteropo- 



dias 12 



Baker, Frank C. Remarks on Urosalpinx perrugatus Conr 46 



On the modification of the apex in Murex 66 



Bancroft, Edward. Co-ossification of Axis vertebra with the third Cervical.. 419 



Brown, Authur Erwin. On a new genus of Colubridse from Florida 199 



Ellis, J. B. and Benjamin M. Everhart. New North American Fungi 219 



Ford, John. Description of a new species of Helix 188 



Hartman, W. D.. M. D. Description of new species of shells. (Plate III.) 284 

 Heilprin, Angelo. Barometric observations among the high volcanoes of 

 Mexico, with a consideration of the culminating point of the North 



American continent 251 



The corals and coral-reefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 



(Plates VI and VII.) 303 



The Eocene moliusca of the State of Texas. (Plate XI.) 393 



The geology and paleontology of the Cretaceous deposits of Mexico. 



(Plates XII, XIII, XIV.) 445 



Ives, J. E. On Arenicola cristata and its allies 73 



Echinoderms from the Northern Coast of Yucatan and the Harbor of 



Vera Cruz. (Plate VIII.) 317 



Jordan, David Starr. On the fishes described in Miiller's Supplemental Vol- 

 ume to the Systema Naturae of Linnaeus 48 



Keyes, Charles R. Synopsis of American Carbonic Calyptrrei das. (Plate II.) 150 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Notices of Entozoa 410 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the life-histories of plants. No. V 266 



■Osborn, Henry Fairchild. A review of the Cernaysian Mammalia 51 



Pilsbry, Henry A. On the anatomy of Aerope cafifra Fer. (Plate I.) 41 



Note on a Southern Pupa 44 



New East Indian Land Shells 186 



New and little-known American Mollusks, No. 3. (Plate V.) 296 



Trochida;, new and old 343 



Description of a new Japanese Scalpcllum 441 



Rand, Theodore D. Notes on the genesis and horizon of the serpentines of 



Southeastern Pennsylvania 76 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. Descriptions of three new species of Myxomycetes, 



/^ 3 2. 




with notes on other forms in Century XXV of Ellis and Everhari's 



North American Fungi 192 



Sharp, Benjamin, M.D. An account of the Vincelonian Volcano. (Plate IV.) 289 



Sterki, Dr. V. On new forms of Vertigo 31 



Stone, Witmer. Catalogue of the Owls in the collection of the Academy of 



Natural Sciences of Philadelphia 124 



On birds collected in Yucatan and Southern Mexico 201 



Pennsylvania and New Jersey Spiders, of the family Lycosidae. (Plate 



XV.) 420 



Wachsmuth, Charles and Frank Springer. The perisomic plates of the Crin- 



oids. (Plates IX and X) 345 



Woolman, Lewis. Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City, N. J.... 132, 444 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1890. 



January 7, 1890. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-two persons present. 



The Council reported that the following Standing Committees had 

 been appointed to serve during the ensuing year : — 



Ox Library. — Joseph Leidy M. D., W. S. W. Ruschenberger 

 M. D., William W. Jefieris, Charles P. Perot, J. Bernard Brinton 

 M. D. 



On Publication.?. — Joseph Leidy M. D., George H. Horn M. D., 

 Thomas :Meehan, Edward J. Nolan M. D... John H. Redfield. 



On Instruction and Lectures. — Isaac C. Martindale, Edward 

 Potts, George A. Rex M. D., Charles Morris and J. Bernard Brinton 

 M. D. 



Standing Committee of Council on By-Laws. — AV. S. W. 

 Ruschenberger M. D., Theodore D. Rand, and Isaac C. Marti ndale 



2 




10 proceedings of the academy of [1890. 



January 14. 

 Dr. Charles Schaeffer in tlie chair. 

 Tweuty-two persons present. 

 The death of J. Frank Kniglit, a member, was announced. 



Pea-like Phosphorite from Polk Co., Florida. — Mr. Edw. Gold- 

 smith stated that Mr. Jos. Will cox had received from Mr. E. R. 

 Childers of Fort Meade, Fla., a specimen of rock which, it is 

 stated, is about to be quarried for use as a fertilizer. The rock 

 extends over a considerable area of territory that is tributary to 

 Peace Creek, from the bottom of which stream a large amount of 

 what is supposed to be phosphate of lime is now obtained by two 

 companies operating there. It is essentially a phosphorite occurring 

 in pea-like masses mixed with carbonate of lime, fragments of bones 

 and shells, small pebbles of quartz and Limonite. Although the 

 rock is brittle, a thin section was prepared for microscopic examina- 

 tion. This was accomplished by Mr. Lancaster Thomas in a way 

 that is worth noting. The specimen was completely soaked with 

 boiled Canada balsam prior to the grinding. The result was a 

 transparent slide. There was observed, besides the above mentioned 

 mixture, amorphous silica in which were imbedded acicular crystals 

 of apatite. 



The si)ecific gravity was found to be 2-675. The rock cannot be 

 considered rich in phosphoric acid. The latter, however, appears 

 fairly disseminated through the whole mass. The pea-like globules 

 were tested separately, together with fragments of bone and the 

 dull brown-colored Limonite, phosphoric acid being found in each 

 case. A quantitative determination of the acid has of course com- 

 mercial interest but is out of the question here. 



The name proposed for the rock was suggested by the pea-shaped 

 globules. It may be considered as a variety of Phosphorite. 



January 21. 

 The Pi-esideut, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Anatomy of Aerope caffra Fer.," by 

 H. A. Pilsbry was presented for publication. 



January 28. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 




1890,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Remarks on Urosalpinx perrugatus Conr." By Frank C. Baker. 



" On the Fishes described in Miiller's Supplemental Volume to the 

 Systema Naturae of Linnaeus." By David Starr Jordan. 



" Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City." By Lewis Wool- 

 man. 



Mr. Carl Edelheim was elected a member. 



Henry ]M. Stanley was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ON THE DISTRIBUTION OF COLOR-MARKS IN THE PTEROPODID^. 

 BY HARRISON ALLEN. 



In a paper which I contributed to these Proceedings, 1888, p. 84, 1 

 endeavored to establish the proposition that the arrangement of the 

 fur and the markings upon the skin in the mammalia were capable 

 of being systematically treated. Especially I endeavored to corre- 

 late the location of color-marks with physiological or morphological 

 factors. Thus some of the markings are due, it is thought, to effects 

 of heat and moisture, others to the presence of important glands, or 

 of special organs ; a third group was explained ou the basis of bi-lat- 

 eral symmetry, etc. 



The essay now presented is confined to the further elucidation of 

 the subject, as illustrated in the fox-bats. Conformation to a gen- 

 eral type of coloration is here easily discerned. While writers have 

 mentioned some of the details, no evidence is presented why they may 

 not constitute the plan upon which descriptions of species should 

 be based. That some plan is needed is evident. In no group of 

 mammals is it more difficult to identify si^ecies where no assistance 

 is afforded by the examination of types or of collections which are 

 authoritatively named. I hope that this difficulty may be lessened 

 by mapping out the hair-bearing surfaces into regions, and by sep- 

 arately describing each. The study of variable species is one of the 

 most interesting phases of modern zoology ; the time has come ap- 

 parently to devote greater care than has been the custom to the 

 most variable of all the chai-acters of the mammalia, namely, the 

 quality, coloration, and distribution of the hair. This exj^lanatiou 

 is necessary to account for the minute description of well-known 

 forms of bats in the ensuing pages. 



The regions which will receive names in the descriptions are as 

 follows : 



The crown. 



The face. 



The " whisker." 



The inter-ramal space, i. e. — the region between the horizontal 

 rami of the mandible. 



The post-mental space, i. e. — the space directly back of the men- 

 tum. 



The occiput. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



The side, the front, and the back of the neck. 



The base of the prebrachium. 



The side, the front and the back of the trunk. 



The rum]), the lower part of which forms the sacral region. 



The infra-anal region or the space below the anus. 



The crown may be said to extend back as far as the ears. 



The occiput, to reach from the crown to the end of the curve from 

 the crown to the neck. 



The face (exclusively of the dorsum of the muzzle) commonly has 

 the hair directed in varying degrees backward. The face mav be 

 naked except in clumps, or lines which will receive names accordino- 

 to their locations. 



The " u-hisker" is the growth of hair which lies in front of the au- 

 ricle. It connects the hair of the crown with that of the side or the 

 front of the neck and the space between the rami. The hair of the 

 face, when directed backward often slightly overlaps the " whisker." 



The space between the rami is either of the color of the crown, 

 face or of the front of the neck. As a rule it is a feebly developed 

 region. 



The post-me7ita I space is a subdivision of the foregoing. 



The side of the neck is an important region since the hair is here, 

 as a rule, longer and coarser than elsewhere. The clumps usuallv 

 described as " shoulder tufts," belong to the side of the neck. But 

 the tufts are rarely differentiated. They are well .seen in Cephalotes 

 peroni and Cynopterus marginatus. In most examples the entire 

 cervical region is occupied with hair of a special character and, as 

 already remarked, may be continuous with the hair in front of the 

 auricle. 



The hair oit\\e front of the neck in marked contrast tQ that of the side 

 is almost always thinner and softer and may be almost absent. Of a 

 shade in common with that of the side it is often of a hue which re- 

 sults from a mixture of this shade with that of the front of the 

 trunk or space between the rami. 



In like manner the back of the neck is a weaker region than the 

 side. Usually marked with the same colors as the side it mav be 

 continuous with that of the back of the trunk or of the occiput. 



The base of the prebrachium is not to be confounded with the low- 

 er part of the side of the neck where it forms the so-called shoulder- 

 tuft. The hair usually forms a clump on the ventral side of the pre- 

 brachium near the shoulder. It may be an extension of the color 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



of the side of the neck, of the side of the front of the body, or be a 

 special development. 



The side of the trimk, next to the side of the neck, is the most impor- 

 tant region. It appears to be controlled by the position of the mamma, 

 since the tract begins at the upper border of the gland. In Cynop- 

 terus marginatns it is confined to the region of the mamma. It ex- 

 tends in all forms, other than the one named, the entire length 

 of the trunk, becomes woolly and is lost on the inguinal, femoral or 

 crural regions. This tract apjiears to be the same as the region for the 

 colors on the flanks and inner surfaces of the legs of quadrupeds gener- 

 ally. It is undoubtedly sexual in significance, for in addition to its 

 relation to the mamma it lines the depression between the sides of 

 the body and the wing-membrane and forms a sort of pouch in 

 which the young are carried. The hair is uniformly soft and silky. 



The hair of the front of the trunk is shorter than that of the side, 

 and usually of varyingly contrasted shades of color. 



The back of the trunk begins at the level of the prebrachia, usu- 

 ally by a sharply contrasted line with the back of the neck ; but it 

 may be continuous with that of this region as in Cynopterus, or be 

 separated therefrom by a vertebral stripe, as in Harpyia, or by a nar- 

 rowed tract, as in Pteropus vielanopogon. When hairless (in the 

 adult), as in Cephalotes, the region is still sharply limited by the lines 

 of the prebrachia. 



The re^io'rt o/^Ae sacrum is conveniently separated from that of 

 the back since hair may be retained here when it is absent or rudi- 

 mental elsewhere, as in Cephalotes and P. ynelanopogon. 



The " rump" includes the region last named and the loin. 



The infra-anal region is not separated by any limit from the side 

 of the trunk but it is sometimes useful to speak of it distinctively. 



The shades on a single hair whether unicolored, or having the tip 

 of a different color from the shaft, or the base of a different color 

 from the shaft or tip, is always to be noted. The hair which extends 

 from the body to the auricles, the wing-membranes and the inter- 

 femoral membrane, is uniformly unicolored. The arm may be an 

 exception, when it is covered with the hair of the front of the trunk. 

 The hair at the front of the crown and sides of the face is generally 

 unicolored, as also is the" whisker." On the side of the neck the 

 hair may be unicolored when elsewhere the hair is bi-colored. 




1890.] XATUR-VL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



The presence of circumpalpebral hair of contrasting color with the 

 rest of the head, or of special patches of color about the eyes, which 

 contribute such conspicuous features in many other quadrupeds, ap- 

 pear to be absent in the Cheiroptera. An apparent exception may 

 be made in the instance of P. capistratus ; but in this species the hair 

 about the eyes embraces a wide region and if it receives the name 

 circumpalpebral, this word must be in a different sense from the one 

 previously employed in the essay on color-marks. 



The W'hite patches of hair at the base of the auricle and at the 

 shoulder which are so note-worthy in Epomophorus do not appear 

 to be generally retained. As already mentioned the clump last 

 named is a differentiation of that of the side of the neck. 



The enormous development of the wings dominates nutritive proc- 

 esses at the side of the body. With these changes the greater 

 development of the hair — coarse, as in Pteropus, or long and 

 soft, as in the order generally — appear to harmonize. The posi- 

 tion of the mamma at the side of the pectoral region also assists in 

 determining the tendencies to lateral developments if we can so con- 

 clude from the line of soft, long fur which is so commonly found be- 

 ginning about the mamma and extending down to the thigh. The 

 prebrachium is distinctly ventral in its relations (for the association 

 of the so-called occipito-pollical muscle in some forms, as in Molossus, 

 is more pectoral than napal) and the coloration of the base of the 

 skin-expanse naturally partakes of the shades of color of the chest 

 and abdomen. 



The woolliness of the hair at and below the anus and at the sa- 

 crum is not explicable. It may be in some way associated with the 

 generative acts. 



Pteropus edwardsii. 



An adult male. 



Crown paler than the back of neck ; it is narrowed to a point 

 between the eyes. 



Base of the auricle with a clump of dark brown (almost black) hair. 

 Directly in front of the auricle is a broad band of hair (the " whisk- 

 er") which unites the crown with the hair of the side of the neck. 



Oircum-palpebral patch black, faintly defined. 



Cheek-patch black, distinct. 



Labial hairs black, highly developed at the ricti. 



Post-mental patch black, distinct. 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The side of the neck with long, coarse, unicolored, reddiish hair, tlie 

 longest of any in the body excepting that of the side of the trunk. 



The front and back of the neck like the side, but the hair is less red 

 and shorter. The hair is blackish at the basal third or fourth. 



2'he side of the trunk about the mamma, with long silky, black uni- 

 colored hair. This tract is continuous with that of the outer side of 

 the leg and wing membranes where it becomes shorter and thinner. 

 The abdomen andihe base of the prebrachliim almost entirely black 

 but with glistening yellowish tips which partially conceal the black 

 color of the shafts. The hair is less silky than at the sides. The base 

 of the prebrachium is of a brighter yellow than is the abdomen. 



Beloiv the anus and on the inner side of the leg the hair is woolly, 

 black with grizzly tips. 



The back is black, hairs short, appressed, becoming longer woolly 

 and grizzly at the sacrum and on the legs. 



The margin of the endopatagium with a faint line of short black 

 hairs. 



Pteropus vulgaris. 



(1) An adult. 



Croivn and nape, and tract, in front of the auricle, dark chestnut- 

 brown. The crown-patch advances beyond the eyes. No separate 

 clump at the base of the auricle. 



Cir^cumpalpebral j)atch is of the same color as the crown and nape. 

 The crown is unicolored ; the nape is bi-colored, the basal fifth be- 

 ing black. 



Face uniformly covered with short, brown hair without distinct 

 cheek-patch. 



Labial hairs brown, w^ell developed. 



Post mental j)atch, black, distinct, and continuous with the hair of 

 the front of the neck. 



Side of the neck with very long silky, black hair. 



Front and back of the neck with hair of the same character but 

 shorter ; that of the front is shorter than that of the back. 



The side of the trunk also with exceedingly long black, silky uni- 

 colored hair. Some of the hairs are lightly tipped with gray. 



The front of the trtuik with short, black, unicolored hair. 



Base of prebrachium black, as in the neck. 



Arm, forearm and wing-membrane brown. 



Beloiv the anus the hair is also brown ; it is woolly in texture. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 



The hack is brown with black at basal fourth. The hair of this 

 tract where it extends on the wing-nienibraue, is silvery-yellow. The 

 same color characterizes the hair of the extremities. 



Endopatagial hairs are conspicuous on the margin of both dorsal 

 and ventral surfaces. 



(2) An Adult. 



The hair as above with the exception that the color on the side of 

 neck, side of trunk, back and front of neck, and of chest and abdo- 

 men is brown instead of black. 



Pteropus rubricollis. 



Three adult skins. 



(1) In no region is the hair differently colored at shaft and base. 



The crown, nape and whisker with long, erect, unicolored gray hair. 



The anterior portion of the crown advanced beyond the eyes well 

 on the nose. 



The cheek covered with hair of the same character which is con- 

 tinuous with the above. The ear is covered with hair on both sides. 



Cireum-palpebral patch black or gray. 



Labial hairs well developed, black. 



Post-mental patch large, black and continuous with the hair of the 

 front of the neck. 



Side of neck, which has a distinctly ventral inclination, is cov- 

 ered with very long silky, hair of a tawny yellow — the tips being 

 chestnut-brown. The patch does not extend to the shoulder nor 

 scarcely to the back and front of neck, where the hair is more brown. 



The shoulder and base of prebrachium is occupied with an equal- 

 ly long patch of black hair which is continuous with the fide of the 

 trunk. This line closely resembles that seen in P. vulgaris in hav- 

 ing the hairs with ashy tips. 



The chest and abdomen of the same general color as the sides of 

 trunk but more gray. 



The hair of the wing-membranes brownish, with gray tips. 



The back is covered with long, black, silky hair with ashy tips 

 The tract advances well up on the neck, and the color of the side 

 of the neck dominates scarcely at all the color of the dorsum or ven- 

 tre. The expansion of the hair on the wing-membranes at the en- 

 dopatagium is of the same color as the back of the trunk, thus pre- 

 senting a marked contrast with the disposition in P. vulgaris, or is of a 

 dull iron-gray. Gray hair covers the humerus and the fleshy part 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



of the forearm. The fur over the sacrmn is not differently colored 

 from that of the back. 



The fur below the anus is long, gray, unicolored, and forms a con- 

 spicuous mass of hair between the thighs. 



The thighs are clothed to a point nearly to the ankle with tawny- 

 brown, or gray fur. 



Posteriorly the posterior extremity is covered to the base of the 

 metatarsus, or to the bases of claws, with hair of the same color. 



(2) An adult skin. 



The color essentially the same as above. The crown is of a dark 

 iron-gray color. The color of the side of the neck distinctly domi- 

 nates the back of the neck as well as the front. 



P. edwardsii, P. vulgaris, P. rubricollis being all from the same 

 localities, viz., Madagascar, the following statements respecting them 

 may be useful : 



In all the crown is distinct from the neck ; the cheek hairy ; the 

 whisker is present ; a disposition exists for the circumpalpebral hair 

 to be distinct ; the labial hairs are abundant and of black color ; the 

 color of the side of the neck not markedly dominating that of the 

 back or the front; the side of the trunk di^stinctly differentiated. 



P. rubricollis is different from the other species, inasmuch as the 

 hairs are not dark at the base and (with the exception of the tips) 

 are of the same color their entire length. 



Pteropus edulis. 



Seven specimens examined. 



(1) An adult skin (No. 2745). 



Crown black with dark red tips. The patch extends well between 

 the eyes. 



Base of auricle naked. 



" Whisker " narrow, — confined to a rather small tract, which meets 

 the backward directed black hair of the face to form a " cowlick." 



Cheek patch is absent. 



Labial hairs inconspicuous, scarcely differentiated from those of 

 the face. 



Circumpalpebral patch absent. 



Side of neck with long, stiff, unicolored, reddish hair distinctly 

 dominating the back of the neck to form a mantle, but yielding to 

 the ventral colors on front of the neck. 



Post-mental tuft of black hair conspicuous. Black hair extends 

 on the face and the neck as far back as the line of the ears. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



The base oj the prebracTiium and the chest thence to the middle of 

 the ventre of a peculiar dusky shade of color which appears to be 

 intermediate between the color of the side of the neck and that of 

 the chest and abdomen. 



The side of trunk with long soft black hair with ashy tips ; it is more 

 woolly than on the chest and abdomen. 



The back is occupied by a narrow tract of appressed, black hair 

 with grizzled tips. 



Sacrum iron-gray, — same color of fur extends on the posterior 

 extremities to the upper third of the legs. The texture is distinctly 

 woolly. 



The chest and abdomen covered with short slightly woolly hair 

 of a dark smoky black color with ashy tips. 



The hair below the anus does not differ from that of the abdomen. 

 A few hairs are seen on the dorsal surface of the endoiiatagium. 



(2) Adult skin. (No. 6538.) 



As in preceding. The crown is more red, the black hair of the 

 neck below the mandible forming a long distinct " cowlick " in the 

 middle, and extending back on the line of the ears. Line of side of 

 neck with basal plumbeous color. 



No intermediate color between the mantle and the color of the 

 chest and abdomen. 



The bases of the hairs dark plumbeous on the crown and back of 

 mantle. 



(3) Adult skin. A male (No. 6541). 



Red color extending entirely over the crown, below the eye and 

 by a broad " whisker " to the surfiice between rami of the man- 

 dible. The black color of the face is confined, indeed, to the muz- 

 zle. The nape of the neck and the mantle is of a much lighter 

 shade of red than the side of the neck and the crown. The shafts 

 of the hair everywhere unicolored. 



(4) Young adult skin. A male (No. 3668). 



The black shades prevail. The crown, sides of face, front of neck, 

 hair on humerus, space between the mandibular rami, being this 

 color. The black hair of the abdomen tipped with brown instead 

 of gray. 



Fteropus maklotii. 

 An adult skin. 

 Crown of head tawny, the basal half being black. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



" Whisker " black, as is also the neck between the horizontal rami 

 of the lower jaw. 



Face l)lack sparsely covered with hair. 



Labial fringe none. 



Side of neck distinctly limited from the back and front. Hair 

 longer and coarser than elsewhere. The basal half tawny, the apical 

 half black with glistening ashy tips. 



Back of neck uniform dark brown. 



Front of neck black with glistening ashy tips. 



Side of trunk with long silky black fur with ashy tips. 



Front of chest and abdomen same in color but much shorter and 

 stouter. 



Back covered with uniform dark brown, appressed hair. 



Over sacrum same, but more woolly and with ashy tips. 



Base of prebrachiinn not distinctly colored from the humerus, both 

 being dark brown. 



Pteropus medius. 

 Nineteen skins. 



(1) Crown dark brown, basal third much darker. Hair almost 

 appressed. 



" Whisker " well defined but not forming a " cowlick " with the 

 black hair of the face. 



Labial fringe absent. 



Hair between the horizontal rami of the lower jaw thick and soft, 

 and of a black or deep brown color. 



Side of the neck with long, thick fur of a tawny or yellow tinge. 

 Basal half black. 



Back of neck the same. The lower margin of the mantle is of a 

 lighter hue than the rest. 



Base of prebrachium anteriorly (veutrally) clothed with short 

 hair which is of the same color as the humerus, namely, very dark 

 brown or black. 



Side of trunk with very long silky black hair. Base of the same 

 hue as the tips. 



Front of chest and abdomen dull chestnut-brown. Basal half 

 half black. 



Region below anus woolly, dark brown. 



Back with short appressed hair, dark brown to black with gray 

 tips. 



Sacrum and legs woolly with same color as the back. 



(2) Same as No. 1. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



Crown more blackish ; base of prebrachium same color as mantle. 



(3) Same as No. 1. 



Crown and mantle everywhere tawny, no yellow tints on body. 

 Chest and abdomen and base of prebrachium tawny throughout. 



(4) Same as No. 1. (smaller, probably immature). 

 Croivn rich chestnut. 



Back of neck (mantle) light-yellow verging to a paler hue. 



Base of prebrachium the same as back of neck. 



Side of neck, front of neck and shoulder at base of humerus light 

 chestnut. 



Front of cliest and side of trunk much the same but intermixed 

 with black points. 



Back with many dark chestnut points to the prevalent black 

 hair. 



(5) Same as No. 4. 



Front of chest and ahdovien nearly black. 



In P. medius it is clearly seen that the basal dark shades are more 

 persistent than the tips. The region of the crown becomes variable 

 as the chestnut 'and brown tips disappear and permit the basal 

 dark shades to show and give various effects to the general color of 

 the region. The back seems to be composed of the basal black — the 

 entire length of the hairs being about equal to the dark portions of 

 the hair of the side of the neck and of the mantle. 



In group No. 4. the prevalence of the lighter chestnut or yellow 

 shades are substitutions for the tip-colors only for the darker brown 

 or black of the other groups — with the exception of the base of the 

 prebrachium, where the hair is entirely yellow, as in group 3 it is 

 entirely tawny. 



Pteropus poliocephalus. 



Six skins of adults. 



Croxvn and face and region between the horizontal rami of man- 

 dible dark gray. Hair in front of the ear thicker than elsewhere 

 and verging to black. No basal contrast. The hair is thick and 

 long except on the face. 



Labial fringe absent. 



Side of neck with very long and soft chestnut-colored hair. The 

 base is black. 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The front and hack of the neck is of the same general character. 

 The contrast between the parts and the side of the neck less notice- 

 able than iu other species examined. 



Base of prebrachuivi black and distinctly differentiated from the 

 fur of the surrounding regions. 



The side of the trunk slightly more fulvous than the rest of the 

 chest and abdomen where the hair is of a uniform gray tint as the 

 head. The arm thickly covered with fur of the same character. 



With the exception of becoming more woolly the hair of the region 

 of anus, that below the anus and on the legs is of the same color. 



The back covered with appressed hair, but unusually long and 

 soft. 



That over the lower sacrum and legs precisely the same as that of 

 the body. 



There is a faint hem of hair on both surfaces of the free margin of 

 the endopatagium. 



Remarks: The confluence of the crown, whisker, face, and region 

 below the lower-jaw — in one color district ; the merging of the side 

 of the neck with the front and back ; the imperfect differentiation of 

 the color of the side of the trunk from that of the chest and abdomen ; 

 the exact resemblance between the front and back of the body and 

 legs, readily distinguishes this species from any examined. With 

 the reduction of the color-regions to three, namely, the head, neck, 

 and body, the retention of the black tuft of hair at the base of the 

 prebrachium is remarkable. 

 Pteropus melanopogon. 



Twenty-four specimens of the skin of this variable form were ex- 

 amined, four of these were identified as male and nine as female. 

 The remainder were undetermined, nine of this remainder were im- 

 mature. 



The specimens will be examined under these heads : — 



(1) Two individuals, male. Crown to a little beyond the eyes 

 unicolored black ; the rest of crown chestnut at tips — the shaft and 

 base being black. 



Nape of the neck unicolored red- yellow. 



" Whisker " unicolored, same color as nape. 



Face wnth tendencies to growth of reddish black hairs with black 

 base on the cheek, lower eyelid and malar bones and along the hor- 

 izontal ramus of the lower jaw. Between these localities the skin 

 is nearly naked. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 23 



The space between the horizontal rami covered Avith short hair of 

 the color as tlie above. 



The side of neck with long yellow, red unicolored hair, but slightly 

 differing from that of the back. The hair only with black base as 

 it joins the hair of the back. 



The front of the neck sharply separated from the side in color and 

 texture. It is less compact, unicolored dark reddish-brown much 

 softer. 



There is no differentiation at base of prebrachiuvi. 



Chest and abdomen uniform dark brown, unicolored. 



The side of the trunk softer but scarcely longer, unicolored, almost 

 cinereous. 



The infra-anal region more woolly. 



Back dark brown hairs closely appressed. 



The sacrum and parts beyond distinctly woolly. 



(2) Two specimens. Apparently old individuals. 



No black on croxvn. Fur everywhere tawny verging in places to 

 light chestnut red, excepting the back of the body which is sulphur 

 yellow. 



(3) One female. Croivn covered with brown hair having glis- 

 tening yellow tips. 



" Whisker" long, yellow, unicolored. 



Clumps on the face (beneath eyes and on cheek) dark brown uni- 

 colored. 



Side of lower jaw, including masseter muscle, dark brown unicol- 

 ored. 



The thinly distributed long tawny hair of the front of neck in- 

 vades the space between horizontal rami of the lower jaw — the post 

 mental space alone being covered with a clump of brown unicolored 

 hair as on lower jaw. 



Side of neck with slightly longer hair than the back, but of the 

 same tawny yellow, no well defined line separating the two regions. 



The base of jirebrachium on ventral surface, dark brown, the hu- 

 merus tawny yellow, axilla and side of the trunk dark brown. There- 

 fore three colors are seen at side of body from the upper margin of 

 ventral aspect of the prebrachium to the axilla. The resemblance 

 to the same parts in P. medins is close. 



Side of trunk long, silky, dark brown, unicolored. 



Chest and abdomen light brown, unicolored. 




24 TROCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Infra-anal region scarcely woolly, same color as above, a conspic- 

 uous cowlick at the median line at the interfemoral membrane. 



Back composed of a narrow tract of appressed, tawny, yellow hair 

 with brown marginal lines which extend to knees. 



Prebrachium entirely naked on dorsal surface. 



One specimen only retained a few hairs on dorsal surface of the 

 ulna. 



(4) One female. Uniform dark tawny brown everywhere ex- 

 cept along the back of the body which is sulphur-yellow. 



The side of sorrel color and extending thence to the knees of the 

 same brown shade as in group No. 1. 



No " cowlick" on front of the interfemoral membrane. 



(5) Two individuals, sexes not determined. 

 Crown dark unicolored brown. 



Face, with the exception of a naked space between the eye and the 

 cheek, covered with the same brown hair. 



" Whisker" well defined but partially concealed by a prominent 

 cowlick which is formed by the whisker and the backward directed 

 hair of the side of the face. 



Inter-ramal space, or the space between the horizontal rami of the 

 mandible the same as the face and the crown. 



The fur of the front oj neck dark brown and sharply separated 

 from that of the side of the neck as in group 1 of the males ; yet the 

 base of the prebrachium is arranged as in group 1 of the females. 



The fur of the back of body dark brown with nearly black lateral 

 lines. 



(6) Nine immature examples. 



(a) Seven of these were two-thirds grown, (6) one was about half 

 grown, and (c) one with head and body measuring but six inches. 



Group (a). This exhibited the general arrangement of colors and 

 of fur as in the adults. The fur everywhere was silky. The hair 

 of the back in all examples save one was of a rich olive-brown. 

 The exception showed the sulphur-yellow of the adult male. 



In example (6) the fur was everywhere dark brown excepting at 

 the occiput Avhere it was a shade lighter. 



In example (c) the hair was of uniform light brown. The hair 

 excepting that of the side of neck was scarcely differentiated either 

 in color or length. 




1890.] XATl'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



In all the nine individuals the skin over the dorsal aspect of ulna 

 was covered with a distinct narrow tract of hair. In the adults 

 with but a single exception this line was absent. 



The crown tends to be very dark brown and unites with the side 

 of the face and the inter-ramal space by a tract— the " whisker"-which 

 extends between the ear and the eye. The color of the crown is 

 usually abruptly contrasted with that of the occiput. The space 

 between the eyes may be retained as a narrow patch of dark brown 

 which is nowhere else seen upon the crown. The occiput is almost 

 uniformly of a bright color. The back of the neck is chestnut and 

 forms occasionally only a collar. The sides of the trunk are apt to 

 be differently shaded from the front, i. e., they are either lighter or 

 darker than the front. The region of the pelvis both front and back 

 is almost uniformly woolly and darker than the adjacent fur on the 

 loin and the abdomen. 



In twenty examples the crown of the head, side of face and 

 under part of the head at the mandible tend to be differentiated from 

 the rest of the body. The whisker is marked excepting in the very 

 young. The side of the neck is less distinctly developed, yet the 

 tendency for it to be so is seen in young individuals but six inches 

 in length. The front of the neck is often sharply contrasted in color 

 with that of the side — a peculiarity not seen in any other species ex- 

 amined. The nape of the neck is apt to be of a lighter color than 

 any other portion of the body. The differentiation at the base of the 

 prebrachium is of a variable tendency. The hair of the side of the 

 body is relatively less long than in other species. The sulphur-yel- 

 low color of the back of the body is more marked in the female than 

 in the male as is the disposition for the hair of the infra-anal region 

 to be furnished with a " cowlick". The side of the tract on the 

 back tends to be margined with hairs of a different hue from the 

 one which is prevalent, as in P. vulgaris. The presence of a small 

 tract of hair on the dorsal surface of the ulna in one adult only 

 while it is detected in all the nine immature forms is a fact of in- 

 terest. 



The naked patches on the face answer nearly to the lines of 

 dark hair on the face in P. capistratus. The anterior part of the 

 dark crown in some varieties is precisely of the nature of a median 

 dorsal stripe and appears to be identical with the stripe similarly 

 situated in the species last named. 



3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Pteropus capistratus. 



Of this species fifteen specimens were examined, five of these hav- 

 ing a length of forearm of 100 mm. to 105 mm ; seven of 65 mm. to 80 

 mm. and three of 50 mm. The three last named were certainly im- 

 mature. 



(1) Crorvn with median black line, the remainder being white. 

 The' black line distinctly divided anteriorly on dorsum of muzzle. 

 The eye surrounded with white hair which is directed backward 

 and merges into that of the crown. 



An oblique black line extends across the face from near the inner 

 canthusto the angle of mandible. Directly in front of the whisker 

 a vertical black line extends. It broadens slightly and merges with 

 the black of the front of the neck and space between the horizontal 

 rami of the lower jaw. In the space last named the hairs are arranged 

 in the form of two lines with a white space between. 



Side of neck white not longer than back. The occiput yellow- 

 white. 



Base of hair of occiput, side, front and back of the neck black. The 

 white hair of the crown and the side of face including the Avhisker 

 unicolored. 



No differentiation at the base of prebrachiuiii. 



The color of the chest and abdomen dark brown with ashy or pale 

 yellow-white tips. Side of body or color of arm scarcely differen- 

 tiated. The space about nipple nearly naked (sexes not distin- 

 guished). 



Back much the same, but hair slightly appressed. Margin lighter 

 as in P. vulgaris. Sacrum and legs to ankle markedly woolly. 



Free margin of endopatagium hairy ; white hair on dorsum, arm 

 and forearm. 



(2) Same as above with white tips supplanting the yellow- 

 white of the nape of the neck and the occiput. 



(3) Same as above, everywhere darker, the base of the hair becom- 

 ing conspicuous owing to the partial absence of the apical white. 

 Black lines on the face absent except the median dorsal of the crown. 

 The whisker light, uniform gray. The hair about eye and on crown is 

 also gray but darker than the foregoing and is furnished with a dark 

 brown base. The dark brown of the space between the horizontal 

 rami of the mandible confined to the postmental space. 



(4) The very immature individuals have entirely white hair on 

 back of neck. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



As already noted the lines on the face are essentially the same as 

 the naked spaces in P. melanopogon. The white color approaches 

 the borders of the eye-lids — a narrow line of integument alone 

 intervening. No collar of black hair at this place discerned. 



The wing membranes are marked by numerous irregular lines as 

 in Harpy la. 

 Cephalotes peronii. 



Five examples of this species were examined. 



In two of the number, (a & b) the forearm measured 111 mm. in 

 length ; in one (c) the forearm measured 75 mm. ; in one (d) (cer- 

 tainly immature) the forearm measured 80 mm. ; and in another 

 (e, also immature) it measured 65 mm. 



(a) The crown and occiput black. 



Face sparsely covered with short black hair which for the most 

 part is directed backward and reaches almost to the ear, so that the 

 " whisker" tract is obscurely defined if it be present at all. 



The side of neck provided with sparsely distributed hair. The 

 part near the shoulder with an obscure rosette-like arrangement of 

 unicolored olive-brown hair. The front of the neck is covered with 

 short hair of the same color which appears to be on each side an 

 extension of the rosette upward and to the front of the neck. 



The back of neck is of the same color with that of the occiput and 

 crown but of a lighter shade. 



The hair is distinctly longer than on the side and is easily distin- 

 guished therefrom by its darker hue. 



A row of long, very distinct bristles is present on both the upper 

 and lower lips. The bristles of the muzzle and above the eye are 

 also exceptionally conspicuous. 



The side of the trunk is distinctly separately marked from the 

 front. The hair is of a unicolored mouse gray color, long and silky. 

 It is continuous without interruption to the infra-anal and femoral 

 regions. 



The hair of the front of the trunk is shorter. The color is brown 

 to tawny. 



The endopatagium and mesopatagium is nearly one-half covered 

 with soft hairs. The back is naked excepting over the sacrum 

 where a few black hairs are found. Hair extends along the dorsal 

 aspect of forearm. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



(2) (b, c & d.) The same as above excepting that the hair over 

 the sacrum is present in a well-defined clump and extends upward 

 one-third the length of the back. 



(3) (e.) Fur soft, short, appressed. Frontof neck, nearly naked; 

 the front of trunk quite so. The sorrel clump is well developed. A 

 faint but easily discernible longitudinal stripe extends the entire 

 length of the back. The dorsal aspect of the humerus is covered 

 with short hair. The hair over the forearm is more marked than in 

 the larger and more mature specimens. 



Harpyia major. 



Nine examples adult ; sex unknown. 



Crown to back of eyes unicolored, erect white-gray compact hair. 



Crown to occiput the same with base plumbeous. 



Side of face without differentiation unicolored tawny, hair fuller 

 and longer in front of the ear. 



Side of neck with long, relatively coarse hair — gray nearly entire 

 length, but having rusty brown tips. Front of neck almost naked. 



^acifc of nec^ with soft, shorter hair, the base is very dark, with 

 gray tips. 



Side of trunk scarcely at all different from the front. 



Back of trunk — gray in color, long, erect, with basal two-thirds 

 black. The black vertebral stripe does not extend beyond level of 

 prebrachium. Endopatagium with hem of hair on dorsal surface. 

 Interfemoral membrane naked beneath, sparsely covered in great 

 part on dorsal surface with short, inconspicuous hair of the same 

 color as that of the back. 

 Cynopterus marginatus. 



Three specimens were examined, all adults — two males and one 

 female. 



In one of the males the crown and face were mouse-gray. No 

 evidence of a " whisker" was present. The hair of the space be- 

 tween the horizontal rami of the mandible was of different texture 

 from that of the face. The hair was longer and thinly covered the 

 skin. 



The side of the neck without radiating hairs. The color of this 

 region not differing from that of the front of the trunk which was 

 slate-gray. The region of the mamma slightly rufus. 



The side of the trunk below the mamma with longer hair than 

 that of the front but otherwise is not differentiated. That below the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 29 



anus is continuous with the line last named but is of a more rusty 

 tinge. 



The hair of the back is longei" than that of the front. There is no 

 mantle. The hair is slightly woolly over sacrum and on the thighs. 



The fur is everywhere unicolored. 



The second male like the foregoing, but the sides of the neck with 

 long coarse radiating rusty red hair. This color dominates the front 

 of the neck. The same colored but softer hair marks the position of 

 the mamma. 



The infra-anal region was gray. 



The single example of a female was the same as the above, excepting 

 that the rusty hue of the mamma dominates the color of the side 

 of the trunk and the rusty hue of the side of the neck extends less 

 evidently on the front. 



The differentiation of the region of the mamma is noteworthy in 

 this species. The hair on the side of the neck, according to Dobson, 

 is more rusty in the males during the rutting season than at other 

 times. The region also may be of secondary sexual significance. It 

 will be noted that the color in the single female scarcely differs from 

 that of the male. To a less degree than in any form examined were 

 the regions of the head and face distinguished. 



The distribution of the hair in families other than the Ptero- 

 podidae is not subject to the same sharp contrasts of color, nor to the 

 same variety within specific limits. The subject, however, is 

 worthy of extended study. As a rule the disposition to the sides 

 of the neck and body being more heavily furred than elsewhere is 

 evident. 



In Chalinolohus (as remarked by Dobson^) the fur of the head 

 and shoulders is darker than the rest of the body. Atalapha 

 cinerea exhibits the same disposition for the hair in front of the ear and 

 of the inter-ramal space to be darker than the adjacent regions as is 

 noted in some species of Pteropus. In the young of Atalapha nove- 

 boracensis while the head and back including the corresponding as- 

 pect of the interfemoral membrane is uniformly clothed, the under 

 surfaces of the head, neck, trunk and interfemoral membrane are 

 naked. In Artibeus and Carollia an attempt at special disposi- 

 tions of hair about the eye is clearly discernible. As is well known 

 a white dorsal stripe on the head and back of Artibeus and on the 



1 Catalogue of Cheiroptera in the British Museum. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



back in NoctiUo, are met with. In Chilonyderis davyi the back of 

 the trunk is naked as in Cephalotes and Notopteris. 



In Vesperugo lasiopterus the disposition for hair to grow along 

 the lines of the raised folds of the wing membranes is evident. 

 The basal clump of hair which is so commonly present in Vesper- 

 tilionidte aj^pears to correspond to those caudal vertebrre which are 

 in axial line with the trunk. 



In the Pteropodidfe the arrangement of the verrucjie is not of the 

 importance assumed in other families. Thus in the last named, the 

 rictal wart may separate the facial from the inter-ramal regions. 

 The same structure apparently determines the direction of the au- 

 ricular expanse forward. The mental warts in like manner forecast 

 the positions of mental leaflets in Noctilio, Chilonyderis and 3for- 

 mops. The region of the warts at the side of the muzzle becomes the 

 site of remarkable outgrowths in Synotus and Corynorhimts. In 

 Molossus rufus a group of hair-bearing verructe limits the area of dis- 

 tribution of the hair on the dorsum of the interfemoral membrane. 

 Special patches of hair are met with on the same surface in the fe- 

 male of Miniopteris schreibersii.^ 



For the opportunity of examining the material upon which the 

 study of the Pteropodidse is based I am indebted, in great part, to the 

 courtesy of Mr. F. A. Ward of Ward's Natural History Establish- 

 ment, Rochester, N. Y. 



*Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1889, p. S22. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



ON NEW FORMS OF VEKTIGO. 

 BY DR. V. STERKI. 



It was to be expected that a more exhaustive research for small 

 PupidcB, and a closer examination of materials already in the dif- 

 ferent collections, by one observer, would bring to light quite a num- 

 ber not only of new species but of new varieties and local forms. 

 There, are now six, or possibly seven new Vertigo, a part of them 

 having been in my collection for more than three or four years, 

 Availing for confirmation. Two represented by only two examples 

 each — one of them from N. E. Ohio, the other from Illinois — are 

 omitted here, although I am satisfied they are good species. 



The four to be i:)ublished here are established beyond a doubt, 

 owing to the kindness of quite a number of conchologists, who fur- 

 nished me specimens and sent me their whole collections of Pupidae 

 for examination. In place of minute systematic descriptions, which 

 will follow elsewhere, I prefer here pointing out their main charac- 

 ters and comparing them with species already known. 

 Vertigo callosa, sp. nov. 



There are in collections two diflferent species under the name of V. 

 gouldii Binn. Their size and coloration is nearly the same, at least 

 in most variations, as are also the apertural lamellte as to number 

 and position. Yet they are decidedly and constantly distinct, espec- 

 ially by the formation of the outer wall at the aperture. Judg- 

 ing from the descriptions and more especially from the figures, the 

 true V. gouldii is characterized as follows : the last whorl is 

 somewhat predominating, thus rendering the whole shell more ovate 

 or conic ovate ; the palatal wall near the aperture is decidedly fiat- 

 tened, or impressed, the impression comprising also the crest and 

 being especially well marked at the " auricle" (as I name the 

 more or less projecting part about the middle of the outer margin, 

 to have a concise expression), forming a roundish groove outside and 

 a decidedly projecting angle inside, thus producing the " two curves 

 meeting in the center of the peristome." A feature, not striking but 

 only seen by careful examination, is the position of the short tooth- 

 like lamella at the base, somewhat nearer the margin than the end 

 of the columella, the base perceptibly widened at that place ; the 

 said lamella is probably an equivalent of the inferior columellar 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



lamella, which in most of Vertigos stands very low, in many exactly 

 at the base. 



The other species, V. callosa, has the last whorl relatively less 

 wide, so that the whole shell is of a more oblong shape. In the pal- 

 atal wall, only the part behind the crest is somewhat flattened, while 

 the latter itself forms one unbroken curve from the base up to the 

 suture, and at the moderately projecting auricle there is only a slight 

 flattening. The inferior columellar lamella is at the end of the col- 

 umella, sometimes wanting or a mere trace. Well worthy of notice 

 is a peculiar formation of the surface, the epiconch showing micro- 

 scopic wrinkles or foliations in the direction of the lines of growth 

 producing a peculiar silky gloss, especially on quite fresh examples, 

 and more in some forms than in others. 



The first two examples of this species I obtained in 1885 from Mr, 

 Henry Moores, of Columbus, O., and in 1889 I saw a few more in his 

 collection. In 1887 Mr. E. W. Roper sent me some others from 

 Mass. Last year in different collections I saw quite a number of 

 specimens from different places in New York near the metropolis, 

 under various names : V. gouldii, milium, ovata and also mixed with 

 hollesiana. Of the Ohio examples the color is somewhat lighter, the 

 callus and the lamellse are strong and white, while in the eastern 

 examples they are somewhat thinner and more of the color of the 

 shell. The name callosa was thus mainly derived from the Ohio 

 form (which, however, may be regarded as a variety). 



It is with some hesitation, however, that I now bring it under this 

 head : it is the equivalent of the European V. pygmaea, Drap., of 

 which I have examples for comparison from different countries of the 

 old continent \ The two may even be identical ; at least it would be 

 absolutely impossible to distinguish New York examples from most 

 Europeans. Both forms agree also in certain variations of the aper- 

 tural lamellffi; the inferior columellar lamella may be absent in 

 either, or there may be present a small suprapalatal fold thus ren- 

 dering the number variable from 4-6, the typical, however, being 5. 

 An examination of the soft parts will probably decide the question ; 

 so far I have not had an opportunity to make it. 



On our continent, the range of distribution of the two species — 

 V. gouldii and callosa — seems to be somewhat different, the former 

 having been found in New York, Ohio, Illinois and Colorado, the 

 latter from Massachusetts to Ohio. 



1 Which I have partly collected myself there during a mimber of years. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCEH OF THILADELPHIA. 33 



"Vertigo binneyana, sp. nov. 



Last year, ]\Ir. W. G. Binney kindly pi-esented me with two exam- 

 ples of a Vertigo collected at Helena, Montana, by Mr. H. Hemphill, 

 which seemed to be of a new species; but yet I did not like 

 to publish a description founded upon only these two specimens. 

 Lately among a number of small Pvpidce from different parts of 

 British America sent by INIr. Geo. W. Taylor of Ottawa, there were 

 a few examples of this same species from Winnipeg, Manitoba, dead 

 and weathered, but good enough to be identified. 



They are of the size and general appearance of V. calloaa, very 

 narrowly perforate, cylindrical oblong, light chestnut-colored ; whorls 

 5, moderately rounded, nearly smooth ; aperature relatively small, 

 peristome little expanded : outer wall with a well formed crest in- 

 terrupted by a rather long revolving groove ; corresponding to the 

 crest there is a callus of lighter color ; lamellfe 6 ; on the apertural 

 wall a small supra-apertural and a well developed apertural; collu- 

 mellar appearing rather massive ; at the base one, rather small but 

 well formed, appearing tooth-like ; palatals 2, long, especially the 

 inferior. L. 2-0 D. TO mill. 



Probabl}' there are other examjiles of this species in collections 

 and more will be found in the northwest. It is named in honor of 

 Mr. W. G. Binney to whom I owe the two beautiful specimens in 

 my collection. 



"Vertigo oscariana, sp. nov. 



This is the most peculiar of our species. It is of the size of mili- 

 um but oblong with either end nearly equally pointed, the last whorl 

 being considerably narrowed and flattened towards the subtriangu- 

 lar, small aperture; shell thin, delicate, of pale horn color, as is the 

 palatal wall and margin ; the latter simple and straight, with a very 

 slight, thin callus inside ; lamellae 3, whitish, rather small : one aper- 

 tural, one columellar (longitudinal) and the inferior palatal ; some- 

 times there is also a very small superior palatal. Length 1*5, diam. 

 0-8 m. m. 



This remarkable Vertigo has been detected in Eastern Florida, 

 on the coast at Mosquito Is., etc., by Mr. Oscar B. Webster and his 

 father, Mr. Geo. W. AVebster, of Lake Helen, Florida. These gen- 

 tlemen took much pains to ascertain the range of distribution of this 

 form and some others, and it is consequently only just to name 

 the species in honor of Mr. Webster. The most striking char- 

 acter of it, besides the narrowed last whorl, is the thin and 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



straight palatal wall and margin, so that, indeed, the shell appears 

 to be immature. But when seen under a glass of sufficient power, 

 the margin is completed and, as already mentioned, there is a thin 

 callus at a little distance from the margin. Moreover, Mr. Webster 

 wrote me that of more than 150 examples he had seen, all were alike. 



A few days ago, in a lot of P. corticaria Say, from Ithaca, N. 

 Y., sent from Texas, there was one example of this species, the shell 

 dead but in fair condition, a little larger and less fragile than the 

 Florida examples, and with a well marked callus corresponding to 

 a slight but distinct crest. The specimen may have been collected 

 in New York, and from its appearance at least I would ascribe to it 

 an origin north of Florida.^ 



By the kindness of Mr Webster I was enabled to see a living ex- 

 ample. The foot and the lower parts of the head are nearly color- 

 less ; head, eye-tentacles and neck light gray. Jaw very tender, thin, 

 pale yellow, consisting of about 14 longitudinal plates, shorter and 

 wider in the middle, longer and narrower toward either end ; it is 

 much like that of V. tridentata, Wolf. Odontophore about 0'36 mm. 

 long, 0*1 wide, about 110 square rows in each f+f+f teeth ; central 

 very small ; laterals gradually passing into marginals ; the latter 

 serrate. Different from that of V. tridentata. 

 Vertigo rugosula, sp. nov. 



Related to V. ovata and gouldii ; in shape more elongated than 

 the latter, more cylindrical and somewhat larger. Apertural parts 

 and lamellae much like those of ovata, but the columella is decided- 

 ly longer and straighter, and the inferior columellar lamella is 

 distinctly placed on it. L. l-8-2'0 D. 1*1 mm. Of a peculiar forma- 

 tion is the surface : of the 5 well rounded whorls, about one and 

 a half of the upper are nearly smooth ; the following with exception 

 of the last are distinctively and regularly striated, the last very finely 

 but distinctly rugose in the sense of the lines of growth, near the 

 aperture again striated. Color, dark chestnut. 



This is a beautiful species, of which I saw the first example in the 

 collection of Mr. Bryant Walker, who had found it, in April last, at 

 Pass Christian, Mississii^pi. Last September, Mr. W. G. Mazyck 

 collected a number of them on Sullivan's Island, S. C. In either 

 place they were in company of Pupa rupicola Say. Quite lately I 

 have seen one example from Lee Co., Texas, sent by Mr. J. A. Sing- 



1 Since the above was written, I found a few examples in drift froip Guadalupe 

 River, Texas, collected by Mr. J. A. Singley, sent by Mr. Wm. A Marsh. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



ley; it was a dead shell, and not fully mature, but recognizable. 

 The species consequently seems to be widely distributed along the 

 South-Atlantic and Gulf Coasts.^ 



In eastern Florida, Volusia Co., etc., a form has been found to be 

 quite common which I refer to this species, but as a distinct variety 

 which may be called ovulum. It is somewhat smaller, ovate, the 

 striation and rugosity of the surface are less marked, and the inferior 

 apertural lamella is wanting ; in turn it has in most examples a lam- 

 ella at the base (between inferior columellar and inferior palatal) 

 and the callus in the palatal wall is rather strong. The coloration 

 of part of them is somewhat lighter. It cannot be confounded with 

 V. ovata Say, its relations to the type of rugosula being evident, and 

 in addition, ovata has been found with it. Nor can it be referred 

 to ventricosa : it is larger and stronger, of much darker color, its sur- 

 face is not so smooth and polished, it has 3 or even 4 lamellie more, 

 and the columella is longer. 



1 Two specimens were sent in by Mr. H. Hemphill, who collected them at Fish 

 Camp, Fresno Co., Cal. 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



February 4. 

 Mr. William W. Jefferis in the chair. 



Twenty persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Genesis and Horizons of the Serpentines 

 of South Eastern Pennsylvania," by Theodore D. Rand, was pre- 

 sented for publication.. 



February 11. 

 Dr. Charles Schaeffer in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Note on a Southern Pupa." By H. A. Pilsbry. 

 " A Review of the Cernaycian Mammalia." By Henry Fairchild 

 Osborn. 



" On Arenicola cristata and its Allies." By J. E. Ives. 



February 18. 

 Mr. Harold Wingate in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A Remarkable Variation of Sternonitis Bauerlinii, Mass. — Dr. 

 George A. Rex presented a series of specimens illustrating a strong- 

 ly marked variation of Sternonitis Bauerlinii Mass., and the succes- 

 sive phases of its reversion to the typical form. 



Four years previously, he had found on the surface of a decaying 

 log in Fairmount Park, Phila., a patch of sporangia of a Sternonitis 

 which, by a superficial inspection appeared to be Sternonitis Mor- 

 gani Pk. Subsequent examination with the microscope, however, 

 showed certain peculiarities of structure, not found in any known 

 species of Sternonitis. These variant characters were so marked that 

 they would have justified, had they proved constant, the creation 

 of a new species and also, perhaps, a new generic type. 



All of the sporangia of the entire growth which covered a super- 

 ficial area of five or six square inches, were alike in structure and 

 perfectly mature, so that their unusual form was not due to irregu- 

 lar individual development or immaturity. The sporangia differed 

 in form from typical Sternonitis, in being irregularly three-sided, or 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



triangular in section in the upper two-thirds of their length, instead 

 of being cylindrical as usual. 



This irregular shape was due to the anomalous position of the col- 

 umella which was lateral and not central, running from the base of 

 the sporangium nearl}'- to the end, in a spiral of about two and one- 

 half turns, appressed and closely attached to the inner face of the 

 sporangium wall. 



The internal capillitium, usually composed of radial threads run- 

 ning from the central columella to the peripheral network was want- 

 ing ; but in place of it, a few delicate threads bound the columella, 

 at short intervals to the periphery, and then ramified for a little dis- 

 tance upon the latter. 



The sporangium wall or periphery was most remarkable, being, 

 in efiect, a rigid sheath of plasmodic matter, perforated by circular 

 and oval openings, instead of the peripheral network of threads par- 

 allel to the axis of the sporangium, which is characteristic of typical 

 Stemonitis. At intervals, on the surface of this plasmodic sheath, 

 knots were developed from which short threads branched in all di- 

 rections, sometimes connecting with those binding the columella but 

 generally blending with the substance of the sheath. 



As the season was advanced no other specimens were found in that 

 year, but in the following year, three crops of Stemonitis were suc- 

 cessively developed at intervals of about one month on the same area 

 of log surface which had been carefully marked and noted. Bv a 

 warrantable inference these growths were developed from the spores, 

 or part of the same plasmodium as the specimens of the previous 

 year. Each crop bore the main variant characters of the original 

 specimens, but approached successively nearer the true Stemonitis 

 type. 



The last found growth differed but slightly from Stemonitis Bau- 

 erlinii Mass., yet, as it presented all its diagnostic characters, the 

 whole series could logically be referred to that species. 



These and all similar variations in the sporangia of the myxomy- 

 cetes, are caused by the irregular or unusual differentiation of the 

 formative plasmodium during development. In the present case, the 

 sporangium wall gained an increased amount of plasmodic matter at 

 the expense of the central capillitium. 



Whether this change was abrupt, or the result of several genera- 

 tions leading to it, could not be known, but the observations which 

 were made, though lacking some of the essentials of scientific exact- 

 ness, seemed to show- a very interesting example of the reversion of 

 an extremely variant form to its original type. 



The speaker believed that this abnormal form would again be de- 

 veloped and found, and he desired, therefore, to place it on record 

 as Stemonitis Bauerlinii Mass. f fenestrata. He acknowledged his 

 indebtedness to the courtesy of Mr. George ^Nlassee, the author of the 

 species, for an authentic specimen of Stemonitis Bauerlinii. 




38 proceedings of the academy of [1890. 



February 25. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



The death of Dr. Charles C. Parry, a Correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



The following was received : — 



Report of the Committee on the Hayden Memorial 

 Geological Award. ^ 



The committee appointed by the Academy of Natural Sciences to 

 recommend the award of the Hayden memorial medal for the most 

 important contribution to the science of geology, has the honor to 

 report to the Academy that is has selected Prof. James Hall, the 

 State Geologist of New York, for the distinction of receiving the first 

 award of this medal. In making the selection the committee feels 

 confident that it will have the endorsement of every geologist both 

 here and abroad, but it deems it due to the eminent character of the 

 recipient, and of the work which he has done for fifty-eight years 

 and is still doing for science, that these services should be here 

 formally acknowledged. 



Prof. Hall was born at Hingham, Mass., on Sept 12th, 1811, and is 

 therefore now in his 79th year. He commenced his scientific life in 

 1832 when, after graduation at the Van Rensselaer Polytechnic school 

 he immediately assumed the duties of a Professor there. His dedica- 

 tion to the special branch of research to which he has made so many 

 and important contributions, began in 1836 when he was appointed 

 Professor of geology at that institution, and the same year one of the 

 Assistant Geologists on the then just instituted geological survey of 

 New York. In 1837 he was made State Geologist in charge of the 

 fourth division of the State. His final report of this district was made 

 in 1843, and thence with the title of State Geologist he was placed in 

 charge of the paleoutological work. From this date till 1879 five vol- 

 umes of the paleontology of the terrains from the Potsdam sand- 

 stone to the base of the coal measures have been issued. He has pre- 

 pared a complete revision of the paleozoic brachiopoda of North 

 America which is now in press and which has necessarily required 

 researches as far west as the Rocky Mountains. 



He was also State Geologist of Iowa in 1855. In 1857 he was 

 elected State Geologist of Wisconsin. He has besides prepared mon- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



ographs of the Graptolites of the Quebec group (1865) ; two vol- 

 umes of the geology and paleontology of Iowa (1858-9) ; the chap- 

 tei's on geography, geology and paleontology, of Wisconsin in 1862 ; 

 Fremont's exploring expedition Appendix A. (1845) ; Expedition 

 to the Great Salt Lake (1852) ; United States and Mexican Bound- 

 ary Survey (1857) ; United States Geological Exploration of the 

 Fortieth Parallel, Vol. IV. He has published volumes of reports of 

 progress ever since 1866, when on the reorganization of the New York 

 State Museum he was appointed director as well as State Geologist. 

 Notable among these are Vol. VI, on the Corals and Bryozoa from the 

 Lower and Upper Helderberg and Hamilton ; Vol. VJI, containing 

 descriptions of the trilobites and other Crustacea of the Oriskany, 

 Upper Helderberg, Hamilton, Portage, Chemung and Catskill — in 

 fact eleven volumes altogether. He received the grand cross of the 

 order of St. Maurice and St. Lazarus from the King of Italy in 1882, 

 -and the Walker quinquennial grand prize of $1000 from the Boston 

 Society of Natural History in 1884. 



He is the only surviving founder of the American Association of 

 ■Geologists which was organized in Philadelphia in 1840, and out of 

 which grew the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science. He was one of the charter members of the National 

 Academy of Science, and one of the original founders of the Inter- 

 national Congress of Geologists, at all sessions of the latter of which 

 he has attended having been elected Vice-President representing 

 the United States. 



He was elected a Correspondent of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia in 1843, one of the foreign members of the 

 Geological Society of London in 1848, and received its AVollaston 

 medal in 1858. He was elected Correspondent of the Academy 

 of Sciences of Paris in 1884. He was the first President elected by 

 the Geological Society of America on its organization in 1889. 



Probably no one living has influenced to a greater extent the do- 

 main of invertebrate palaeontology, and much of the exactitude of 

 knowledge which his researches have introduced into the New York 

 reports have made these the standard of geological nomenclature 



and classification throughout x\merica. 



Joseph Leidy. 



J, P. Lesley. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Persifor Frazer. 



William B. Scott. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The following were elected members : — 



Mahlon Walker M. D., William H. Bricker M. D., Samuel G. 

 Dixon M. D., David Jayne Bullock, Stephen Farrelly and Baird 

 Halberstadt. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rHILADELPIIIA. 41 



ON THE ANATOMY OF AEROPE CAFFRA Fer. 

 BY H. A, PILSBRY. 



In the Proceedings of this Academy f'^>' 1889, p. 277, the writer 

 gave an account of the anatomy of a hoath African land snail. 

 Helix knysnamsis of Pfeiffer, which was there placed provisionally 

 in the genus Aerope, pending fuller knowledge of the organization 

 of A. caffra, the only species heretofore referred to that genus. 

 Through the continued kindness of Mr. John Ponsonby, of London, 

 I am enabled now to describe, a specimen of A. caffra, which was 

 mailed living at London, but encountering some untoward accident 

 en route, reached me with the shell broken and the softer tissues of 

 the animal in such a condition that the parcel was regarded with 

 suspicion and aversion by the Post-office official who gave it me. 

 Upon dissecting the snail — a fine, large specimen — I found it in com- 

 paratively good condition, but somewhat softened by decomposition 

 although I had placed it in alcohol as soon as received. 



The foot is shaped like that of A. kmjsnaensis, and measures about 

 42 ram. in length, 20 in greatest breadth. The sinus separating the 

 sole from the head is quite deep. The sole is whitish ; the upper 

 surface of the foot and head is blackish. The dorsal grooves, usu- 

 ally prominent in Agnafha, are inconspicuous. There are, of course, 

 no epipodial grooves nor caudal mucous pore.^ The buccal mass is 

 very large and long, measuring 35 mm. in length. The radula (pi. 

 I, fig. a) is 40 mm. long, 4^ wide. The formula of teeth is about 

 16-1-16. The rhachidian tooth (pi. I, fig. c, r, and b) is narrow, 

 lanceolate, its basal-plate narrow, emarginate, but not nearly so dis- 

 tinctly forked as in A. ktiysimensis. The laterals are large, set in 

 very oblique rows, and increase rapidly in size from the inner to the 

 fifth, which is very large. The basal-plates of the inner laterals are 

 oblong, but those of the outer (fourth and fifth laterals) are nearly 

 square. Outside of the fifth lateral tooth there are about a dozen 



1 Two notices of the animal of A. caffra have been published : a short no e by- 

 Morch, reprinted in the footnote of my previous paper on Aerope (Proc. A. N. S.. 

 Phila., 1889, p. 177) ; and a description of the external appearance and habits of the: 

 animal by Mr. J. S. Gibbons tin the Journal of Conchology, III,p. 95, July, 1880).. 

 The species was collected at Port Natal and Port Elizabeth by Mr. Gibbons. 

 There are short, thick, conico-triangular labial tentacles visible in the livmg ani- 

 mal, as in Glandina, etc. These are wholly retracted in alcoholic specimens. 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



very minute, slender teeth, almost obsolete. A complete half row of 

 teeth is figured on the plate. 



The characters of the radula prove, as I had anticipated, that this 

 species and A. knys7iaensis are congeneric, forming a group exhib- 

 iting characters distinct from all other agnathous genera. Com- 

 jjared with knysnaensis, the A. caffra differs in the greater speciali- 

 zation of the radula, seen in the reduction of the lateral teeth to five 

 on each side, instead of twelve ; and in the smaller outer laterals. I 

 do not regard the minute teeth lying outside of the fifth lateral as 

 " marginals" or uncini, but as degenerate lateral teeth ; true uncini 

 being absent in the Agnatha, which in this respect hold somewhat 

 the same relation to the Gnathojyhora that Rhachiglossa or Toxo- 

 glossa bear toward Tcenioglossa. In the characters of radula, Aerope 

 caffra represents the highest specialization of agnathous snail yet 

 made known. The characteristics of the Agnatha, — oblique rows of 

 thorn-shaped teeth, becoming smaller toward the center and the outer 

 edges of the radula — are here exaggerated. In no hitherto known 

 genus are the functional lateral teeth so few, or the outer ones so 

 nearly lost.^ In no other genus is there so abrupt a break in the 

 size of the lateral teeth. The tendency in Agnatha seems to be to- 

 ward a type of radula analogous to that represented in Pectini- 

 branchs by the Toxoglossa. 



The genitalia have considerable resemblance to those of A. knys- 

 ■na'ensis. The vas deferens is curiously convoluted just below the 

 twisted portion of the oviduct (see fig. f). The albumen gland (a. 

 £/.) is very large, but perhaps more swollen in my figures than in a 

 freshly killed animal. I did not find any spermatheca, but think 

 that this was owing to the soft, partly decayed condition of the vis- 

 cera. I did not dissect out the ovo-testis. The orifice of the gene- 

 talia is very near the right tentacle. 



The blind sac opening below the mouth, supposed by Dr. Leidy 

 to be the seat of the olfactory sense, is very long, folding upon it- 

 self, terminating in the muscular tissues of the foot about one-third 

 the length of the latter from the posterior extremity. When ex- 

 tended the length of the sac is about 100 mm. 



1 Rhytida may be considered more specialized in one respect: — the absence of 

 a rhaciiidian tooth. 




1890.] XATLRAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Explanation of Plate I. 



Fig. a. Radula of ^4eroj;e cq/^Va, natural size. 



Fig. B. Enlarged view of rhachidian tooth. 



Fig. c. Complete half-row of teeth. 



Fig. D. Genitalia. P. penis ; ;;. /■. penis retractor muscle ; v. d. vas 

 deferens ; a. g. albumen gland. 



Fig. E. Albumen gland, opposite side ; e. epididymis. 



Fig. F. Lower portion of oviduct, showing the convoluted vas de- 

 ferens. 



Fig's G. H. I. J. K. Papa hordeacella Pilsbry. 



tv 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



NOTE ON A SOUTHERN PUPA. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



During the past year the writer has had occasion several times to 

 examine and determine specimens of a certain Pupa from various 

 localities in the South, the extreme points being Arizona and Florida. 

 It seems to him highly desirable to have a name and a recognizable de- 

 scription and figure for a form so widely distributed, and so con- 

 stantly separated by local naturalists from the already known spe- 

 cies as the following : — 

 Pupa liordeacella n. sp. (PI. I, figs, g, h, i, j, k.) 



The shell is of a long-ovoid shape, smaller and more slender than P. 

 servilis Gould, translucent, waxen-white, finely striate ; the aperture 

 is rounded, with a thin, expanded peristome. Within, there is on 

 the parietal wall, an entering fold arising near the termination of the 

 outer lip, its edge a trifle sinuous or nearly straight ; the columella 

 has a fold about in the middle. There is a tiny, deep-seated fold on 

 the base of aperture, near the columella, an entering fold within the 

 outer lip, equidistant from the above-described parietal and colu- 

 mellar folds, and a tiny denticle above it. The columellar fold is 

 not situated so high on the pillar as in P. se7"vilis. The latter half 

 of the body-whorl is flattened on the outer-lower portion, as the fig- 

 ure J. shows. There is a low wave-like ridge or ' crest' also, but 

 scarcely visible in many specimens. 



Alt. 1*8, diam. 8 mm. 



The figures were drawn with the aid of camera lucida. They 

 should be compared with Gould's excellent figures of P. servilis, in 

 Boston Journal of Natura^ History, vol. IV, plate 16, fig. 14, and 

 those of P. pellucida in Strebel's Beitrag zur Kenntniss der Fauna 

 raexikanischer Land-und Siisswasser-Conchylien, Theil iv, pi. xv, fig. 

 10. The latter are the more valuable in this connection as they are 

 not only faithful drawings on a sufficiently large scale, but are the 

 only ones drawn from Continental specimens (Vera Cruz, Mexico). 

 The measurements given by Strebel and Pfeffer are alt. 2^, diam. of 

 last whorl fully 1 mm. ; alt. of aperture, t mm. Gould's P. servilis 

 and Pfeiffer's P. pellucida were both described from Cuba. I see no 

 reason for not following W. G. Binney in considering them synony- 

 mous, pellucida having precedence. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 45 



The shells above described were at first refei'ed to the P. pelln- 

 cida of Pfr., or P. servUis Gld.; and later the writer gave to them 

 the mss. name of P. hordeacella. Whether the characters of the 

 form prove constant enough to give it specific rank, or whether it 

 will finally be considered a variety or race of P. servlUs Gould, is a 

 matter that my acquaintance with the group does not enable me to 

 decide. In its ccmstantly much smaller size we have a perfectly 

 tangible character that will enable one to readily sejiarate the two 

 forms without the use of a magnifier. 



In this connection it will be perhaps useful to point out the fact 

 that in the specimens sent out by Gabb as his Pnjm hordeacea there 

 are two forms mingled. One is the present species ; the other is the 

 true hordeacea, a form of about double the size of this, with a more 

 acute, stronger crest or ridge behind the outer lip, and a decidedly 

 pinched base to the last whorl. P hordeacea has the teeth of the 

 outer lip more deep-seated and smaller than P. servilis or P. hordea- 

 cella. 



The specimens before me are from the following sources : — Ari- 

 zona, collected by Dr. Horn ; New Braunfels and other places in 

 central Texas, collected by Mr. J. A. Singley and the writer; St. 

 Augustine, Florida, collected by Mr. C. W. Johnson, of the Wagner 

 Institute, Philadelphia. 



The figures on Plate I are drawn from New Braunfels specimens, 

 which may be regarded as typical for the species. 




46 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



REMARKS ON UROSALPINX PERRTJGATUS Conr 



M 



BY FRANK C. BAKER. 



This mollusk was described by Conrad in the American Journal 

 of Science, Xew Series, vol. II, 1846, p. 397, as follows : " Fums per- 

 rugatus Conrad. Manatee River. Fusiform, with remote longitu- 

 dinal ribs, and large prominent revolving lines alternating with a 

 fine line ; whorls longitudinally rugose, upjDcr half flat and oblique; 

 aperture rather more than half the length of the shell, purple with- 

 in ; labrum striate ; color of the exterior cinereous. Proportionally 

 wider than F. cinereus, with fewer and larger ribs and lines." 



The only references I have been able 

 to find, which have been made to this shell 

 since the foregoing description, are those 

 by Dr. W. H. Ball in Bulletin No. 37 of 

 the United States National Museum, p. 

 120, and in the Blake Gasteropoda Re- 

 port^ p. 214, in which he says: "There 

 are three American species known to be- 

 long to it ; ( Urosalpinx) N. cinereAis 

 Say, ranging from Massachusetts to Flor- 

 ida ; N. tavqxcensis Conrad, known only 



from the west coast of Florida 



lastly N. 2:>erru(/atus Conrad." 



Among a number of specimens of cin- 

 erexis in the collection of the Academy of 

 Natux-al Sciences of Philadelphia I found several trays of perrnga- 

 tus, and as no really good description, and no figure has been pub- 

 lished of this species, I take this opportunity of redescribing and 

 figui'ing the same. 

 Urosalpinx perrugatus Conrad. 



Shell fusiform, solid, cinereous, under the lens showing a scabrous 

 texture ; whorls six, subcarinated, longitudinally plicate, the folds 

 eight in number on the last whorl, large, rounded ; there are eigh- 

 teen strong, spiral lirse, with fine intervening threads ; aperture ovate, 

 rather more than half the length of the entire shell ; outer lip rounded, 



1 Bulletin Museum of Comparative Zoology of Harvard College, vol. XVIII, 

 pt. 2. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



edge scalloped by the spiral lirre ; inner lip arcuate, smooth ; canal 

 lougish, open, reflexed ; umbilicus none, but there is a furrow in its 

 place, bounded by a fasciole ; aperture purple within ; apex knob- 

 shaped, smooth. 



Alt. 32, diam. 15 mm. Aperture (including canal) alt. 6, diam. 

 6 mm. 



It is separated from cinereus by its greater proportional width, its 

 stronger ribs and spiral line and more scabrous texture. It is at 

 once separated from tampaensis by its sculpture ; that of tampaensis 

 being latticed by the intersection of the longitudinal and spiral lines ; 

 there are other differences Avhich will at once separate it from that 

 species. 



Mr. Tryon, in his excellent Manual of Conchology, seems to have 

 overlooked this species as it is not given in either text or index. 



Specimens have been collected at Cedar Keys, Florida, by Mr. H. 

 Hemphill, and I uudei'stand from collectors that it has been found 

 elsewhere on the west coast. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ON THE FISHES DESCRIBED IN MULLER'S SUPPLEMENTAL VOLUME 

 TO THE SYSTEMA NATURE OF LINNiEUS. 



BY DAVID STARR JORDAN. 



The edition iu German of the Systema Naturoe of Linnieus^ pub- 

 lished by Professor Philipp Ludwig Statins Miiller at Nuremberg in 

 1776 has been long overlooked by naturalists, and thus for it has 

 never been quoted by writers on fishes. My attention has been 

 called by Mr. Leonhard Stejneger, to the fact that in the supplement- 

 ary volume of this work a few fishes have been described. I give 

 in the present paper a list of them. The copy of the work ex- 

 amined by me belongs to the library of the United States National 

 Museum. 



The following are the fishes mentioned : — 



"Der Buntkopf. Coriphaena lineata" (p. 203). 



" Der Kopf ist an diesem Fis.che gedriickt, uackt, abhiingig, und 

 mit bunten Querlinien schon gezeichnet. Die Kiemendeckel sind 

 glatt. Oben und unten sind zwey von einander abstehende, scharfe, 

 liingere, und hervorstossende Ziihne vorhanden. Die Riickeuflosse 

 hat ein und zwanzig Finnen, wovon vier scharf sind, die Brustfiosse 

 eilf, die Bauchflosse sechs, und am After befinden sich fiinfzehn. Die 

 Schuppen sind sehr gross, die Flossen, welche der Liinge nach steh- 

 en, mit kleinen Linien bezeichnet, und der Schwanz ist abgerundet. 

 Das Vaterland ist Carolina. Linnreus." 



This is the original of the description given by Gmelin in 1788. 

 The name Coryphcena psittacus of Linnaeus, 1766, is still older, and 

 the species will still stand as Xyrichthys psittacus. 



" Der Stachelbiirsch. Perca asper" (p. 204). 



A description of Stizostedion (=Liicioperca) luolgense, quoted from 

 " Pallas, Reisen." 



1 Des I Ritters Carl von Linne | Koniglich Schwedischen Leibarztes sc. sc. | 

 voUstandigen | Nalursystems | Supplements= | und | Register=Band | iiber 

 alle I sechs Theile oder Classen des Thierreichs | mit einer | ausfiihrlichen Erk- 

 larung ausgefertigel | von | Philipp Ludwig Statius Miiller | Prof, der Naturge- 

 schichte zu Erlang. Mitglied der Rom. Kaiserl= | A kademie, wie auch der Ber- 

 linischen Gesellschaft der | Naturforscher, etc. | Nebst drey Kupfertafeln. | 



Mit Churfurstl. Sachsischer Freyheit | Niirnberg. | bey Gabriel Nicolaus 

 Raspe, 1776. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



This name antedates the use of the same name, Perca asj)er, for 

 Aspro vulgaris by Gmelin. 



" Der kleine Seehahn. Trigla minuta" (p. 205). 



This is the Trigla minuta of Linnreus, Mantissa, and of Gmelin. 

 It is said to come from the East Indies and is as yet unidentified. 



" Der carolinische Seehahn. Trigla Cai'olina" (p. 205). 



" Das Exemplar des Ritters war mehr als Finger lang, mit sehr 

 feinen Schuppen besetzt und hatte ebenfalls drey fingerformige 

 Fortsiitze. Die erste Riickenflosse hat zehen stachlige, die zweyte 

 dreyzehn weiche, die Brustflosse fiinfzehn, die Bauchflosse sech.s, die 

 After-flosse zwtilf, und die Schwanzflosse zehn Finnen. Der Kopf ist 

 mit sternartigen Charactern gezieret. Die Seitenlinie ist einfach, und 

 fast glatt. Der Sohwanz ist ausgerandet, und die erste Riickenfinue 

 der Liinge nach mit Stacheln besetzt. Der Aufenthalt ist im Meere 

 bey Carolina. Linnwus." 



This is identical with the description quoted by Gmelin from the 

 Mantissa of Linnreus. I have not seen the latter work and do not 

 know whether it is prior to the work of Miiller or not. Presuma- 

 bly it is. 



'" Der Nelma. Salmo Nelma" (p. 207). 



This is Salmo nelma Pallas, Salmo leucicktJujs Giildenstadt, a 

 Russian species of Stenodus. 



" Der Taimen. Salmo Taimen" (p. 208). 



This is the Salmo taimen of Pallas, 



" Der Lenock. Salmo Lenok" (p. 208). 



Also quoted from " Pallas, Reisen," the date of which is 1774 or 

 1775. This is the Brachymystax lenok (coregonoides), which accord- 

 ing to Dr. Giinther may be the male of the preceding species. 



" Der Springfisch. Exocojthus exsiliens (p. 209). 



" In Carolina wird eiu Fisch dieses Geschlechts gefunden, dessen 

 Bauchflosse bis an den Schwanz hinan reicht. Er ist der fliegenden 

 AVachtel No I sehr ahnlich, aber das Exemplar, welches der Ritter 

 bekam, war kaum liinger als ein Finger. Der Korper ist nicht sil- 

 berftirbig. Die Flossen sind blass, und haben ein und andere schwarze 

 Binde. Die Riickenflosse halt zehn, die Brustflosse fiinfzehn, die 

 Bauchflosse, welche (wie an der ersten angefiihrten Art), mitten zwi- 

 schen dem Kopfe und After anfangt, und nur ein Viertel der Lange 

 vom Schwanze entfernet ist, mit dem Ende aber an die Schwanz- 

 flos.se stosst (dergleichen nicht einmal an der ersten Art statt fin- 

 det hat sechs, die Afterflosse eilf, und die Schwanzflosse, die am un- 




50 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



tern Lappen am liingsten ist, hat zwanzig Finnen oder Strahlen. 

 Lin mens." 



This is an abridgment of the description given by Gmelin of 

 Exoccetus exsiliens. Unless some earlier description exists, the spe- 

 cies will stand as Exoccetus exsiliens Miiller. 



" Der Bachkarpfe. Cyprinus rivularis" (p. 210). 



Quoted from " Pallas Reisen." 



This is the Cyprinus phoxinus lainuiens^ Phoxinus phoxinus. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



A REVIEW OF THE CERNAYSIAN MAMMALIA. 

 BY HENRY FAIRFIELD OSP.ORN. 



This remarkably interesting mammalian fauna of the lower Eocene 

 of France has been derived exclusively from a small exposure of the 

 Conglomerat de Cernay near Rheims and described in numerous 

 papers by Dr. Victor Lemoine, Professor in the Ecole de Med- 

 ecine de Reims. The collection is in the private museum of this 

 author and his contributions are scattered through various French 

 periodicals between 1878 and 1888. The Cernaysian fauna, it thus 

 happens, is not thoroughly known or appreciated abroad except by 

 those who have had the good fortune to examine the original types. 

 The fossils are, for the most part, in beautiful preservation and the 

 skulls of Ardocyon, Pleuraspidotherium and other forms are finer 

 than anything known from European strata of corresponding age. 

 The abundance of the Insectivora is especially notable, for these beds 

 promise to throw as much light upon the early history of this order 

 as the Puerco rocks do upon the Ungulata and Creodonta. 



In course of two visits to Rheims I have collected the following 

 brief studies and original sketches for publication, after a careful 

 comparison of my own observations with those published by Dr. 

 Lemoine. I wash to express my high appreciation of the value of 

 the paleon to logical discoveries of this author and my personal in- 

 debtedness for the privilege of freely examining his collection. 



Articles upon the Cernaysian Mammalia, Lemoine, 1878-88. 



('78a.) "Communication sur les Ossements Fossiles des Terrains Tertiaires In- 



ferieures des Environs de Reims." Sec. d'Histoire Naturelle de Reims, 



May 8th, 1878. 

 ('78b.) " Recherches s. 1. Ossem. Fo.ss. d. Terr. Tert. Infer, d. Reims ; ]re par- 

 tie, Etude du genre Arctocyon." Ann. des Sc. Naturelies, July 1878, T. 



VIII. 

 ('79a.) " Comm. s. 1. Ossem. Foss. des Terr. Tert. Infer, d. Env. d. Reims;" 



Assoc. Franc, p. I'Avancement des Sciences, August, 1879. Reprinted, 



Rheims, 1880. 

 ('80a.) " Terrains Tertiaires des Environs de Reims." Assoc. Franc, p. 1. Avanc. 



d. Sc; Reims, 1880. 

 ('82a.) " Sur I'Encephale de P Ardocyon Duellii et du Pleiiraspidotherium An- 



inonieriP Bull. d. 1. Soc. Geo!, de France, 3e Serie, t. x, April, 1882. 



See also Comptes Rendus, April, 1882. 

 ('82b.) " Sur deux Pla^iaulax tertiaires, recuellis a. Env. d. Reims." Comptes 



Rendus, Nov. 20th, 1882. 



1 The list of papers relating to the Reptilian and Avian fauna of Cernay is 

 equally extensive. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



('83a.) " Etude s. 1. Neoplagiatilax d. 1. Faune Eocene infer, d. Env. d. Reim." 



Bull. d. 1. Soc. Geol. d. France. 3Ser.,T. XI, 1883. 

 ('83b.) " Sur VAdapisorex, nouv. gen. d. manim. d. 1. faune Cernays. d. Env. d. 



Reims." Comptes Rendus, Dec, 1888. 

 ('84a.) " Caracteres gen. d. Pleurai^pidotheriHDi, etc." Comptes Rendus, Dec, 



1884. 

 ('85a.) Etude s. C[uel. mamm. d. petite taille d. 1. faun. Cern. d. Env. d. Reims." 



Bull. d. 1. Soc. Geol. d. France, 3 Sen, T. XIII, Jan., ]88r). 

 ('87a.) " Sur le genre Plesiadapis, etc." Comptes Rendus, Jan., 1887. 

 ('87b.) " Sur I'Ensemble d. recherches paleon. faites dans 1' Terr. Tert. inf. d. 



Env. d. Reims." Comptes Rendus, Feb., 1887. 

 ('88a.) " Sur quel. mamm. Carnassiers recuel. dans 1' Eoc inf. d. Env. d. Reims." 



Comptes Rendus, Feb., 1888. 



PERIOD OF THE CERNAYSIAN. 



Dr. Lemoine considers the Cernaysian parallel with the American 

 Piierco and below the AVasatch level, as the fauna is evidently prim- 

 itive and local beds are found above this horizon which contain 

 Hyracotherium and other characteristic Wasatch genera. But Co- 

 rypliodon is found in the Conglomerat de Meudnn, which is generally 

 considered by French geologists as contemporaneous with the Cernay- 

 sian. Upon the whole, the prevailing stages of development observed 

 in the teeth of the different series are .somewhat more modern than 

 the Puerco types and offset the contemporary character given by 

 Arctocyon and Neoplagiatilax.^ The Cernaysian may, therefore, 

 with some certainty be considered intermediate in time between the 

 Puerco and Wasatch, and probably not ftir from parallel with the 

 lower Egerkingen fauna recently described by Riitimeyer. I have 

 arranged the following table, after consulting Professor Gaudry and 

 the geological papers of Lemoine ('80a), de Lapparent (4, p. 1130) 

 and Geikie (5, p. 844). 

 Divisions of the Saessonian or Lower Eocene of France, Paris Basin. 



N. AMERIC.\. GT. BRITAIN. FRANCE. 



C. 



London Clay . . . Sables de Cuise • . . . ^ r, ' ,/ ' • 



■' [ liyracotiieriiim. 



Oldhaven Beds B. Palaeonictis. 



Wasatch Argiles a lignites Coiyphodoii. 



Woolwich Beds Conglomerat de Cer- 



nay, (de Meudon) . . PleitraspidotJierium. 



(Plastic Clay.) A. 



Calcaires de Rilly 



la Montagne Protoadapis. 



Puerco Thanet Sands . . Sables de Bracheux ; 



de la Fere .... Arctocyon priniaevtis. 



Marnes de Meudon 



1 Corresponding to Jllinclaenus and Plilodtts respectively. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



One marked feature of this fauna is that, while related to others 

 of the lower Eocene, only one of the genera and none of the species 

 have been found elsewhere. The order best represented is the I n- 

 s e c t i V r a with at least four genera, then the C r eo d o n t a with 

 three genera, the ]M e s o d o n t a or L e m u r o i d e a, and the M u 1- 

 t i t u 1) e r c u 1 a t a. The last is a distinctively Mesozoic order and 

 embraces in this horizon the s\ng\e genus Neop lag ianlax, the surviv- 

 or of an ancient and widely spread family. Leaving this exceptional 

 type out of consideration, the following are the general characteristics 

 of the Cernaysian mammals: 1. The teeth are tritubercular^ and 

 in only one genus (Pleiiraspidotherium) is the hypocone of the superior 

 molars fully developed ; the intermediate tubercles (para- and mela 

 Connies) so characteristic of the Wasatch mammals, are not gener- 

 ally well developed. In the inferior molars, the primitive triangle 

 is, in most species, broken by the loss of the paraconid. 2. The 

 brain is small ('82a p. 333, Ardocyon, Pleuraspidotherinm), with 

 large olfactory lobes, narrow hemispheres leaving the optic lobes ex- 

 posed and short transversely extended cerebellum. 3. The skull 

 (excepting in the Lemuroidea) has a deep sagittal crest and broad, 

 low occiput, with slender widely-arching zygomata, and the anterior 

 nares small and terminal in position. 4. The feet are plantiyrade 

 (again possibly excepting the lemurs). One feature of great inter- 

 est to which Dr. Lemoine called the writer's attention is the invari- 

 able presence of the a s t r a g a 1 a r foramen (see fig. 5, o/.) ; this 

 is observed also in all Puerco astragali. The femur has a third 

 trochanter and the humerus usually has the entepicondvlar fora- 

 men. 



1 The following is a table of the nomenclature which I have proposed for the 

 tooth cusps equivalent to that employed by Gaudry in the " Euchainements du 

 Monde Aninia/" p.oo. (See 1, p. 1072.) These terms express the homologies 

 which exist between the upper and lower molar cusps, of all the known mam- 

 malia excepting those with muitituberculate molars. 



Abbr. Molaires stipeneitres. Abbr. 



I, denticule interne du premier lobe protocone, pr. 



E, " externe " " " paracone, pa. 



e, " " " second " metacone, me. 



M, " median " premier " protoconule, pi. 



ni, " '■ " second " metaconule, ml. 



i, " interne " " " hypocone, 



Molaires inferieiires. 



E, denticule externe du premier lobe protoconid, pi^ 



(denticule interne ant^rieure) paraconid, pa^ 



I, " " du premier " metaconid, me<> 



c, " externe du second " hypoconid, hy<J 



i. " interne " " " entoconid, en'' 




54 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



With these primitive features in common, the orders are never- 

 theless sharply distinguished from each other, and the writer's prin- 

 cipal grounds for considering this horizon as more recent than the 

 Puerco, are the numerous instances of a high degree of reduction and 

 specialization. The lemuroids are very abundant, with the long 

 slender tail and rotating forearm of the climbers. Plesiadapis is 

 an exact counterpart in jnolar development of the remarkably re- 

 duced Anaptomorphus of the Wasatch, while the older Protoadcqns 

 has the fuller dentition of the Puerco Indrodon. Adapisorex is not 

 a related form as its name would indicate but should be classed with 

 the tiny Adapisorlculas among the Insectivora. Pleuraspidother- 

 ium and Orthaspidotherium were also probably insectivores and as 

 they are both represented by well preserved skulls and portions of 

 the skeleton they constitute by far the best known of the early mem- 

 bers of this important order. All the above animals belong to the 

 smaller and least primitive members of this fauna. The more an- 

 cient fades is given by the small and large Creodouts. Hycenodic- 

 tis is a small animal with molars similar to those of the Puerco Trii- 

 sodon. Tricuspiodon has an inferior tuberculo-sectorial of the most 

 primitive type. Arciocyon is the largest animal, with molars of the 

 Puerco Miockenas pattern. The minute Neoplagiaulax is in a slightly 

 later stage of development than the Puerco Plilodus of Cope. No Con- 

 dylarthra have as yet been discovered in the Cernaysian ; the absence 

 of ungulates is thus in marked contrast with their abundance in the 

 Puerco and Egerkingen strata. 



Calcaires de Rilly 



Protoadapis 



" crassicuspidens 



" recticuspidens. 



" curvicuspidens. 



THE RHEIMS FAUNA. 



Conglomcrat dc Cernay 

 (Lemuroidea. ) 



Protoadapis Copei. 



Plesiadapis tricuspidens 

 " Remensis 

 " Gervaisii 



(Insectivora.) 



Adapisorex Gaudryi 

 " Chevillioni 



Adapisoriculus minimus 



Pleuraspidotherium Au- 

 monieri 



Pleuraspidotherium De- 

 lessei. 



Orthaspidotherium, 

 ^Creodt)nta.) 



Arctocyon Gervaisii. 

 " DueiHi. 



Ar piles a liniites. 



Plesiadapis Daubreei. 



" Chevillioni. 



(Ungulata.) 

 Pachynolophus. 

 Protodichobune. 

 Lophiodochoerus. 



Lophiodon. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



Hycenodictis Gaudryi Hyrenodictis Filholi. 



Tricuspiodon. 



Procyonictis Proviverra. 



(Multituberculata.) 

 Neoplagiaulax eocaenus. 



" Maishii. 



" Copei. 



MESODONTA. 



Schlosser (2, p. 38) has shown that the American lower Eocene 

 monkeys are probably not lemurs, as ]Marsh and Cope have supposed, 

 because the true lemurs, with one or two exceptions, have incisiform 

 lower canines and caniniform anterior premolars ; in other words in 

 most genera, the first premolar has the function and form of a canine. 

 This important distinction renders it probable that Frotoadajyis and 

 Plesiadapis belong among the Mesodonta (Pseudolemuroidea, Schlos- 

 ser). The latter genus has a highly reduced and modified dentition, 

 with no resemblance to that of Adapts. The former has a large 

 canine and much reduced first premolar and resembles some of the 

 American forms. 



PROTOADAPIS. Lemoiue. 



P. (Plesiadapis) recticuspidens, Lem. '78, p. 14. P. (Pies.) crassicuspidens, 

 Lem. '78, p. 13. P. cti)~c'icnspidens, Lem. '78, p. 12. P. Copei, Lem. '79a, p. 7. 



Gen. char.: Dentition i; C; pi(4) mi. Inferior molars 

 quinquetubercular. The first lower premolar oc- 

 casionally present. The incisors small. The ca- 

 nines large. 



This is an older and more primitive form than Plesiadajjis as 

 shown by its fuller dentition and the retention of the paraconid 

 which completes the primitive triangle of the lower molars. These 

 teeth recall the structure seen in Microsyops among the Ameri- 

 can Mesodonta. Although belonging to an older horizon we have 

 no positive grounds for supposing that this genus is an ancestor of 

 Plesiadapis, or that either of these forms are genetically related to 

 Adapis. In fact the tendency to a rapid reduction of the premolars 

 and specilization of the incisoi's point away from Adajyis in both 

 cases. 



PLESIADAPIS, Gervais. 



P. (n'cmpidens, Gervais (3 p.). P. Re/mtisis, Lem. '87a. P. Gerfaisii,htm. 

 '87a. P. Daubreei. Lem. '87a. 



Gen. c h a r. : Dentition if c? p| mf . Median superior 

 incisor and one lower incisor enlarged, remaining 

 incisors andcanines small or wanting. Upper mo- 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



1 a r s t r i t u b e r c II 1 a r. L o w e r m o 1 a r s qua d r i t u b ere u- 

 1 a r. Last lower molar with a third lobe. 



Lower jaw. The large incisor of the type species is tricuspid but 

 there is every shade of variation among the specimens to the uni- 

 cuspid incisor found in P. Dauhreei. Behind this tooth is a dias- 

 -p- tema. The premolars consist of a lofty 

 cusp followed by a heel. The molars, ex- 

 cept the last, are distinctly quadritubercu- 

 ar with an occasional trace of the para- 

 Pig I conid. Upper j a w. The enlarged in- 



Plesiadapis(?) Remensis. cigor is followed by a small lateral incisor 



Superior molar series, about . mi i 



3 natural size. ^'^Ci canme. i he last premolar has a 



slightly reduplicate external cusp. In the molars the transverse 

 diameter exceeds the antero-posterior, and as in Anaptomoiyhus the 

 series is decidedly arched, the conules or intermediate tubercles 

 are faintly developed while the hypocone is still a ciugule. 



The skull is short and relatively broad, with a deep, rounded 

 occipital crest. The chin is rounded ; the posterior portion of the 

 jaw is large and deep with a prominent coronoid process. The 

 skeleton is decidedly lemuroid with a freely rotating radius, a 

 third trochanter upon the femur, the tibia arched, the phalanges 

 long and strong, the ungual phalanges flattened and oval at the tip. 



INSECTIVORA. 



Dr. Schlosser (2 p. 47) has pointed out that Achqnsorex and Adapi- 

 soriculus are Insectivora both in tlieir skeletal and dental characters, 

 and has also referred them to a new family, the Adajmoricidte. The 

 humerus is perforated. The femur has a free head and elevated 

 great trochanter. 



ADAPISOREX, Lemoine. 



A. GaitJrvi, Lem. '83b, type species. A. Chcvil!ionei,A. Remensis, A. miniiniis, 

 Lem., '83b.' See also \S5, Plate X. 



Gen. char. : Dentition i^ ci p; m^. Lower m o 1 a r s q u a d r i- 

 t u b e r c u 1 a r. Third molar small and without pos- 

 terior lobe. Lower incisors and canines p r o c u m- 

 b e n t. 



The characters of the lower jaw of this small insectivore indicate 

 clearly its wide separation from the above lemuroids. The jaw is 

 long and slender, sloping to the chin with a weak and pointed coro- 

 noid and angle. The enamel upon the first incisor is banded ; the 

 second incisor is short while the canine is reduced. The premolars 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 57 



increase in size, piUi being very prominent. The lower molars dimin- 

 ish_ rai)i(lly from mi to ?)i;„ the latter being very small and lacking 

 the third lobe which is so characteristic of the Mesodonta ; the 

 pattern is mainly quadritubercular, the paraconid, if present, being 

 very small. 



ADAPISORICULUS, Lemoine. 



The type of this genus (see '85, p. 212, PL XI) is much smaller than 

 Adapisorex and well distinguished by the very lofty protoconid and 

 metaconid of the lower molars. It has otherwise the same charac- 

 ters upon a small scale. The family relationship with Adapisorex is 

 doubtful. 



Decticadapis is another genus of small mammals founded upon two 

 uj)per and one lower incisor teeth but not as yet well characterized. 



Pleuraspidotherium and Orthaspidotherkim have been considered 

 in the Ungulate series by Lemoine but Schlosser is correct in plac- 

 ing them in the Insectivora, although I cannot agree with him in 

 placing them near Erinaceus. While the molar patterns resemble 

 somewhat those of Erinaceus, the comj^lexity of the crowns of the 

 posterior premolars removes the idea of relationship which is sug- 

 gested by this resemblance. In Centetes, Gymnura and Ericulus we 

 observe a similar assumption of the molar pattern by the premolars. 

 In general, the reduction of the dental series between the median in- 

 cisor and last premolar affords conclusive evidence as to the rela- 

 tionship of these forms to the Insectivora. 



ORTHASPIDOTHERIUM, Lemoine. 



Propo--ed '8oa,p. 205. 



Gen. char.: Dentition if Ct pi m|. U p p e r m o 1 a r s as in 

 Pleuraspidotherium. Third and f o u r t h u ]> p e r p r e m o 1 a r s 

 with single external cusps. Inferior molars with 

 less distinct crests, and m-^ w i t h a t h i r d 1 o b e. Fourth 

 lower premolar simple with a posterior heel. 



This genus is evidently related as a more generalized form to the 

 following but is distinguished by its smaller size, simpler ])remolars,, 

 fuller dental series and relative absence of diastemata. 



PLEURASPIDOTHERIUM, Lemoine. 

 /*. Auvionieri, Lem. '78a, p. 1.5, type species. P. Delessei, Lem. '8(la, p. ]0. 



Gen. char.: Dentition if cl p?! mf . Upper molars mainly 

 quadritubercular, with small intermediate cusps. 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



L o w e r m o 1 a r s q u a d r i t u b e r c u 1 a r w i t h d i s t i u c t t r a n s- 

 versec rests; thirdlower molar withoutt bird lobe. 

 T b i 1- d a 11 d f o u r t b u ]) p e r premolars w i t b single i n- 

 t e r n a 1 and paired external cusps. F o ii r t b lower 

 premolar quadritubercular. 



Upper jaw. Tbe incisors decrease in size laterally, forming 

 a series witb tbe small canine, bebind wbicb is tbe rudimentary first 



premolar followed by a diastema. Tbe 

 tbird premolar is tritubercular ; tbe 

 fourtli bas in addition tbe trace of tbe 

 protoconule and is tbus evidently as- 

 suming tbe molar pattern. Tbe outer 

 faces of tbe ])ara- and meta-cones are 

 flattened witb a median cingulum 

 cusp, presenting a resemblance to tbe 

 same aspect of tbe inolnvs of Pachyno- 

 lophus ; only tbe second and tbird 

 molars bave developed tbe bypocone, 

 and tbe crowns are still subtriangular. 

 Lower j a w. Tbe lower median in- 

 cisor is small ; tbe second incisor is 

 Ti.EURAspinornERiuM (?) Au- large and nearly borizontal. Tbe an- 



MONIERI. a, Superior molar series, , . , • i . ,.i, i i i 4.1 



omitting anterior premolar, xj. b, tenor triangle IS Still marked by tbe 

 Inferior molars, omitting two an- persistence of tbe paracoiiid. 



terior premolars, X J .. Late-al and .j^j^^ ^ j^ ^^ ^ j^^^ ^ ^^ ^^,^^^^ 



inferior views of the premaxillary _ _ . 



reirion (reduced). </, Anterior view ittal Crest witb a broad low OCciput 



ofthea.tragalusandca!caneum(re- ^j^^ Spreading sagittal crests. Tbe 

 duced). e. Distal phalanx, associ- . . 



ation somewhat uncertain. mastoid is exposed. Dr. Lemoiue 



describes two small bones between tbe frontals and nasals, 

 also an inter-parietal. Tbe anterior nares are small and ter- 

 minal in position and tbe posterior nares are placed posteriorly. 

 Tbe proportions of tbe cranial and facial regions suggest tbose in 

 Bidelphys. Skeleton. Tbe limbs are ratber sbort. Tbere are 

 two sacral vertebrae (see '84b). Tbe femur bas a third trochanter 

 and pit. Tbe fibula is complete and tbe tibia articulates witb tbe 

 calcaneum ('84b). Tbe astragalus bas a flat trochlea and tbe usual 

 foramen ; the neck is long ; it articulates distally Avith the navicu- 

 lar only. The calcaneum bas tbe usual concave cuboidal facet. 

 Tbe humerus has no condylar foramen. Tbe structure of tbe 

 radius indicates no power of rotation ; tbe ulna has a well-developed 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



59 



olecranon process. Dr. Leraoine states that the metacarpals are 

 shorter than the metatarsals. The phalanges spread very slightly 

 and are cleft distally. The brain shows (see '82a) elongate olfac- 

 tory lobes and hemispheres with extremely narrow frontal lobes. 

 The cerebellum is short and extended transversely. 



CREODONTA. 



The following genera belong to three families. Ardocyon 

 to the Ardocyonidae. Hyaenodldis, probably to the Mesonychi- 

 dae. Tricnspiodou cannot at present be classed. Its nearest affini- 

 ties are with Stypolophus or Didyviidis. 



ARCTOCYON, De Blainville. 



A. /n'maevus, De B\a\nv\\\e. A. G^c'r^vn'i'/V, Lem. '78a, p.7 . A Dueilii'LQm 



'78a, p. 8. 



Gen. char.: Dentition if c| p;^ mf. The superior mo- 



1 a r s t r i t u b e r c u 1 a r w i t h a w e 1 1 d e v e 1 o p e d h y p o c o n e. 



The i n f e r i o r molars q u a d r i t u b e r c u 1 a r with the 



p a r a c o n i d usually absent. The ]) r e m o 1 a r s simple. 



The general characters 

 of this genus are too well 

 known to require detailed 

 enumeration here. The 

 type species, A.primaevus, 

 of de la Fere, is the oldest, 

 largest and probably the 

 most primitive ; it has four 

 premolars, the first premo- 

 lar is one rooted. The A. 

 Dueilii (type of Heteroho- 

 rus Cope^), of the Cernay- 

 sian, also has four premo- 



Arctocyon. 



A. Diteilii. b 

 superior molar. 



Fig. 4- 



a, Superior molars referred to lars ; the first premolar is 

 A. Gen'aisli, an unworn second . i j xi, • • 



, ,. A. Ga-i^isii, inferior molar ^WO rootedj the series IS 



series viewed from the crown and external side, i. compact ('78, PI. Ill, fig. 

 d, A. Ger-.aisii, last inferior molar. Abbrev. : y. ^^^ ^j^^ j^^^^^. ■ j^ ^^^_ 

 /r, protocone: /rt, paracone; w^, metacone; ny, ... 

 hypocone; w/, melaconule ; />/, paraconule. ativelyshort,deepandmaS- 



sive ('78a, p. 26). Dr. Lemoine estimates the posterior molar at c80 

 (antero-posterior diameter). The A. Gervaisii (type of Hyodedes, 

 Cope^) is distinguished by three premolars, the elongate and rela- 



^ " Tertiary Vertebrata," p. 259. 




60 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



tively shallow lower jaw ; the series is less compact ; the posterior 

 molar varies in antero-posterior diameter (see c and d, fig. 5). 



The actual structure of the superior and inferior molars, as shown 

 in the accompanying figures, is of great interest as the much worn 

 molars of the type species have always been described as quadritu- 

 bercular, and the published drawings of the Cernaysian specimens 

 have given the impression that the crowns are covered with acces- 

 sory cuspules. The eflfect of Avear upon the crown is seen in a com- 

 parison of the second upper molars shown in a and b. The latter is a 

 perfect example of the primitive tritubercular bunodont molar with 



Arctocyon. a, Astragalus and calcaneum. Abbrev. : cb, calcaneo-cuboidal 

 facet; n, astragalo-navicular facet ; (t/, astragal ar foramen ; «<;/, ac/, superior and 

 inferior astragalo-calcaneal facets. 



b, Terminal phalanx, superior, inferior and lateral views. 



the three secondary cusps, the proto- and meta-conules and hypocone 

 in their initial stages of development. This type is seen in Miodaemis 

 and Miolaphus (Platycfwerops), but is repeated in so many diflferent 

 j)hyla that, considered independently, it forms an insecure basis for 

 taxonomic deductions. The lower molars are mainly quadritubercu- 

 lar ; the anterior half of the crown, or primitive triangle, is, however, 

 prominent and in the first molar the paraconid is quite distinct. 



HYAENODICTIS, Lenioine. 



Proposed, '79, p. 5. //. Gaiidiyi, Lem. '85a, p. 204. 



G e n. c h a r. : L o w e r m o 1 a r s t r e n c h a n t with two ele- 

 vated cusps (protoconid and metaconid), and a prominent 

 heel supportingaposteriorpairof basal cusps (hy- 

 poconid and entoconid). Fourth premolar trenchant with 

 one m a i n cusp and two prominent basal cusps a n- 

 t e r i o r a n d p s t e r i r. 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



61 



The molars of this genus differ from those of 

 Wjl DissacHs, Cope, in the double ])osterior basal 

 cus])s and from those of Triisodon, Cope, in the 

 r- less distinct separation of the internal cusps 

 (? metaconid). They apparently agree with 

 both the above types in the loss or reduction 

 /'. Hyaenodictis. in- of the antero-internal cusp (paraconid) of the 

 teinal and superior views primitive triangle. There is a small cusp upon 



of the fourth premolar ^, , . , p ,, , , . 



and second molar, xi. ^"^ anterior slope ot the crown but this can 

 hardly represent an element of the primitive triangle. 



TRICUSPIODON, Lemoine. 

 Proposed '85, p. 204-5. See also '88a, p. 2. 



This genus is apparently well established upon the type of a single 

 lower molar, bearing a lofty primitive triangle with the three cusps 

 complete. This portion resembles the tuberculo-secto- 

 rials of Palaeonictis, Stypolophus, Dich/midis, or on a large 

 scale the recent Centetes but the crown as a whole is 

 well distinguished by the rudimentary character of the 

 heel. This consists of a low simple cusp instead of the 

 broad talon seen in the above genera. Dr. Lemoine has 

 rightly recognized this tooth as closely related in form to 

 the molars of the Jurassic Peramus and Spalacotherium. 

 Procyonictis (see '85a, p. 215) is founded upon a single 

 tooth much less characteristic than the above. It is com- 

 posed of a lofty main cone with anterior and posterior 

 It is possibly a premolar of one of the above genera. 



MULTITUBERCULATA. 



NEOPLAGIATJLAX, Lemoine. 



A^. (Plagiaulax) eocaemis, Lem. '80, p. 12; A^. Marshn,"^^!), p. 12 (reprint). 

 Genus established, '82b. N. Copei, '85, p. 213. 



This well-established genus is distinguished from Plagicmlax and 

 Ptilodus by the presence of but one premolar. Dr. Lemoine's col- 

 lection embraces a number of isolated teeth, among them the upper 

 molars. These (c) are composed of three rows of minute cones sep- 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



^vTriT]n|ir>^^^ IT*?!'?^ arated by well-worn longitudinal valleys. 

 Each of these cones is subcrescentoid as in 

 the upper molars of Tritylodon. The large 

 upper premolar (a) has an indented bor- 

 der and is similar to that found in the max- 



Fig. 6. ilia of Ctenacodon (Marsh) with much 



Neoplagiaulax. a, Prob- ,• ^, • j./e i. 



ably a superior premolar, re- ^^^^^ numerous serrations. It IS difficult 



ferred to N. Marshii. b, N. to form any positive opinion as to the posi- 



eocaenus. Probably a superior ^.j^,^ ^f ^.j^^ ^j^j^.^^ ^^^^.j^ ^gxxx^^ (6). It is 

 premolar, c, A superior true _ . 



molar, the posterior portion of approximately the same size as the above 

 tlie crown partly fractured, premolar, with One elevated row of seven 



All. figures enlarged approxi- . , , , 



mately, ^. marginal tubercles and one depressed row 



of five tubercles. 



BIBLIOGRAPHY. 



4. A. de Lapparent, Traite de Geologic, Paris, 1885. 



5. Archibald Geikie, Text Book of Geology, London, 1882. 



1. Henry F. Osborn, "Evolution of Mammalian Molars to and 



from the Tritubercular Type." American Naturalist, Dec, 

 1888, p. 1067. 



2. Max Schlosser, " Die Affen, Lemuren, Cheiropteren, Insectivo- 



ren, Marsupialier und Caruivoren des Europjiisclien Ter- 

 tiiirs." Wien, 1887. 




1890.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 63 



March 4. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 

 The death of Jacob Ennis, a member, was announced. 



Hypoderas in the Little Bhie Heron : — Prof. Leidy stated that Dr. 

 B. H. Warren had submitted to his examination some pieces of the 

 flesh with areolar tissue and fat, from two individuals of the Little 

 Blue Heron, Florida ccerulea, through which were scattered a num- 

 ber of little egg-like bodies. These on examination proved to be a 

 Mite of the genus Hypoderas, of Nitsch, of which a dozen species, 

 found as subcutaneous parasites, in different birds, have been de- 

 scribed by Giebel (Zeitschrift gesam. Naturwis. 1861, 438). The 

 bodies in the Little Blue Heron were enclosed in connective tissue 

 on the surface of the portions of muscles and elsewhere. They are 

 white, elliptical, from 1'25 to 1'5 mm. long by 0'375 mm. broad, and 

 are provided with four pairs of short, brown, bristly limbs. In other 

 specimens, submitted by Dr. AVarreu, consisting of the carcass and 

 portions of the flesh of four individuals of the Blue-bird, Sialia siali.<i, 

 similar egg-like bodies were found. They appeared to be embedded 

 in the flesh among the muscular fibers. In the carcass they were 

 scattered, especially on the back of the trunk, the neck and the out- 

 side of the upper part of the thighs. They are white, elongated el- 

 liptical bodies from 1 to 2 mm. long, but without any external ap- 

 pendages. No distinct internal structure was observed. Though 

 resembling to the naked eye the Hypoderas Elites, they are prob- 

 ably of a different nature, and perhaps may be psorosperms. 



Notice of an Ichneumon Fly. — Dr. Leidy exhibited a specimen 

 submitted to him by Dr. J. T. Rothrock, who received it from Mr. 

 John A. Webb, of Osprey, Florida. It is a caterpillar, attached to 

 a twig of Red Mangrove, enveloped in a mass of small white cocoons 

 of an ichneumon fly. The mass, nearly two inches long and near- 

 ly an inch thick, contains 275 cocoons, from which were hatched as 

 manv ichneumon flies. 



March IL 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixty-three persons present. 

 The death of William Bucknell, a member, was announced. 



On a nerv Bulimidiis: — ]Mr. H. A. Pilsbry exhibited specimens of 

 a new Buliimdus from Texas, with examples of the already known 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



species B. Schiedeamis and B. dealbatus. He stated that the new 

 form while belonging to the same group, is slenderer than B. Schie- 

 deanvs, and is stronghj longitudbially striate, differing in this char- 

 acter from all other known United States ^((7u/u(7/. This character 

 will also separate it from Mexican forms of the genus. The speaker 

 proposed to call it Bidlmxdas Ragsdalei. 



March 18. 

 Mr. Harold Wingate in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Contributions to a further knowledge of the 

 North American Hesperidce." By Eugene ]M. Aaron, was presented 

 for publication. 



March 25. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Synopsis of the American Carbonic Calyptrte- 

 id?e." By Charles R. Keyes, was presented for publication. 



Fossil Vertebrates from Florida. — Prof. Leidy stated that he had 

 recently i-eceived from Archer, Florida, seven boxes of fossil bones 

 and teeth, collected by Mr. J. B. Hatcher, under the direction 

 of Prof Marsh, by whom they Imd been submitted to him for 

 examination on account of the United States Geological Sur- 

 vey. The collection was from the same locality from which 

 others had been formerly sent to him through the Survey. It 

 contains many specimens of interest but none adding to the species 

 already announced. For the most part they consist of remains of 

 Mastodon fioridanus, Rhinoceros proterus and Auclienia major. 

 Of the first there are a number of well preserved molar teeth and 

 among them specimens confirming the observation of H. von Meyer, 

 that in this genus two premolars succeeded the series of deciduous 

 molars. 



According to Mr. Wm. H. Dall, who visited the bone beds, the 

 fossils are found in a tenacious clay, without pebbles, occupying de- 

 pressions of the oligocene limestone of the country. 



The fossils consist of isolated bones, fragments of others, and teeth, 

 mostly of the larger and firmer kind, well jireserved and neither 

 water-rolled nor weather-worn. Portions of skulls and the hollows 

 of Mastodon molars are usually filled with comminuted bones min- 




I'^OO.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



gled with clay. A specimen of the skull of a Rhinoceros, with all 

 the molar teeth of both sides retained in ])osition, carefully removed 

 together, in a mass of clay by Mr. Hatcher, was crushed into a mul- 

 titude of fragments, which fell a])art on the drying of the specimen. 

 It would ai)pear that the more delicate fossils were crushed while 

 embedded in the clay ; by what means was not obvious. 



Thomas H. Dudley was elected a member. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ON THE MODIFICATIONS OF THE APEX IN MUREX. 

 BY FRANK C. BAKER, 



The embryonic apex in this group consists of from one to one and 

 a quarter (in one instance of two and a half), polished, unvarixed 

 whorls, which are either rounded or carinated, and are generally 

 provided with a distinct varix at the ending of the embryonic whorl. 

 The tip of the apex is in many of the species a little depressed and 

 bent down on one side, and the top of the embryonic whorl is, with 

 one exception, that of Murex scolopax Dillw., always rounded. The 

 embryonic whoi'l is in some species sharply carinated, in others 

 rounded with a thread-like carina, and in not a few it is simply 

 rounded. The varix at the ending of the embryonic whorl, may be 

 either triangular, rounded, large or scarcely visible ; the presence of 

 this varix indicates, without doubt, the point where the shell began 

 its independent existence after leaving the egg. 



The carina, Avheu present, begins about midway of the whorl, and 

 after traversing the whorl in an oblique direction finally terminates 

 in the suture above the whorl below, or is continued in the lowest 

 spiral thread of the succeeding whorl. The whorls succeeding the 

 embryonic are generally rounded and provided with from nine to 

 thirteen small, rounded longitudinal ribs, which in turn are usually 

 crossed by four fine spiral threads. 



In comparing specimens with the following descriptions, they 

 should be held with the varix of the embryonic Avhorl toward the 

 left hand. The aperture of the shell is no guide, inasmuch as each 

 turn of the shell brings the apex in a different position. 



In the present communication I have restricted my observations 

 to the typical Mxirex, or Trihulus group. 



The only author who has described the apices of Murex, so far as 

 known to me, is Watson, who, in the Report on Gasteropoda of the 

 Challenger Expedition, has given valuable remarks on several of the 

 species treated below, as well as some others. 



Genus MUREX Linn. 



Subgenus MUREX (Sensu stricto). 



Murex scolopax, Dillw. (Fig. 1). 



The embryonic nucleus consists of two smooth, glossy fulvous 

 whorls, of which the second is twice as large as the first ; a carina 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



begins at the apex and after traversing the first and second whorls 

 in an oblique direction, finally ends in the suture above the third 

 whorl. The top of the first whorl is flat ; the lateral out- 

 line of the whorls descends outwardly in a straight slant 

 to the carina, and from the carina to the suture below it 

 Pig J slants inward. The carina of the last whorl is much 

 lower, nearer the suture than that of the first, giving the two whorls 

 somewhat the appearance of a stumpy smoke-stack of a locomotive. 

 The last nuclear whorl ends with a triangular varix where (pre- 

 sumably) the shell began its growth after leaving the egg ; this varix 

 is thick, whitish and semitransparent ; from this point the shell con- 

 tinues to be nodulous until the spinose varices appear upon the 

 fourth whorl ; the suture between the first and second embryonic 

 whorls is very distinct. There are ten longitudinal ribs to each 

 whorl until the varices appear upon the fourth whorl. 



This species is separated from Mxirex oeca Sowb., by the top of 

 the first whorl being flat instead of round, as in the latter species. 

 The varix is triangular and well developed in scolopax, whilst in occa 

 it is rounded and not so well developed. It is separated from Murex 

 tribulus Linn., by the lateral outline of the second whorl being 

 straight instead of rounded as in the latter species. 



Murex occa, Sowb. (Fig. 2). 



The embryonic nucleus consists of two nearly white, smooth 

 whorls ; the first is a little rounded knob, and the second is distinctly 

 carinated and about twice as large as the first ; the carina commences 

 about midway of the first embryonic whorl and con- 

 tinues in an oblique direction until it finally disap- 

 pears in the suture above the third whorl ; the lat- 

 ei'al outline of the first whorl is rounded while that 

 ^'^' ^" of the second is carinated as in the first whorl of scolopax. 



The carina of the second whorl is about midway of the whorl. Look- 

 ing at the whorls from above they are seen to increase regularly, the 

 succeeding whorl being twice the size of the one before it. 



The last apical whorl ends with a small thread-like varix ; from 

 this varix the whorls are nodulous until the spinose varices appear 

 upon the fourth whorl ; there are nine ribs to each whorl until the 

 spinose varices appear ; the suture between the first and second em- 

 bryonic whorls is quite deep ; the apex is a little flattened or im- 

 mersed, and bent down on one side. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



This species is separated from Murex tribulus Linn., l)y the first 

 whorl beina: not so compressed, the carina not so near the suture be- 

 h)\v, and in the terminal varix being low, inconspicuous and not 

 ti-ianirular. 



Murex tribulus, Linn. (Fig. ■'>). 



The nucleus consists of about one and a half glossy, horn-colored 

 whorls ; a carina begins at the apex and continues round the apical 

 whorl until it finally disappears in the sutui'e above the second 

 whorl ; the lateral outline of the first part of the whorl descends 

 outwardly in a straight slant to the 'carina, and from 

 the carina to the suture below it slants inward ; the 

 outward slant is three times the length of the inward 

 Fig 3. slant ; the lateral outline of the second part of the 

 whorl descends outwardly in a slight curve to the carina, and 

 from the carina to the suture below it slants inward. The carina is 

 situated but a short distance above the suture of the whorl below, 

 almost concealed by the following whorl. 



The apical whorl ends with a small thread-like varix ; from this 

 varix the wdiorls are nodulous until the spinose varices appear upon 

 the third whorl ; there are nine ribs to each whorl until the spinose 

 varices appear; the suture between the first and second whorls is a 

 little impressed. 



Separated from Murex occa Sowb., by the carina being nearer the 

 suture below and by the varix being slightly shouldered instead of 

 rounded as in occa. The lateral outline of the whorl is convex in 

 tribulus whilst in occa it is straight. 

 Murex rectirostris, Sowb. (Fig. 4). 



The embryonic nucleus consists of about one and one-fourth,, 

 smooth, polished, rounded whorls ; a carina begins after about one- 

 half a whorl, traverses the whorl in an oblique direction, and finally 

 runs into the lowest spiral line of the succeeding whorl ; the lateral 



A outline of the whorls shows a more or less rounded ap- 

 pearance ; the carina runs just above the suture of the 

 whorl below ; the top of the whorl is rounded. The 

 Fig. 4. last apical whorl ends with a distinct, well-devoloped, 

 horn-colored varix, succeeded by three rounded, high whorls of slow 

 increase, each crossed by about fourteen small, rounded ribs, and 

 having four spiral coi'ds ; the spinose varices appear upon the fifth 

 whorl ; the suture between the embryonic whorls is impressed. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF THILADELPHIA. 69 



Separated from Murex recurvirostrls Sowb., by tlie more oval out- 

 line of the first part of the first whorl and by the carina being neai'er 

 the suture in the latter species. It is also more depressed in form 

 than tliat species. 

 Murex brevispina, Lam. (Fig. 5). 



The nucleus consists of one and a half rounded, polished, brownish 

 whorls, of which the first part is a little rounded knob 

 becoming larger and acquiring a sharp spiral carina 

 which encircles its base; the carina begins about mid- 

 way of the whorl, and finally runs into the lowest spi- 

 Fig. 5- ral line of the succeeding whorl. A lateral view shows 

 a rounded outline ; the top of the whorl is rounded ; the tip is a lit- 

 tle depressed. 



There is no decided varix at the end of the embryonic whorl ; the 

 ribs of the succeeding whorls commence abruptly and continue un- 

 til the spinose varices appear upon the third whorl ; there are about 

 ten small, rounded ribs to each whorl. These whorls are shouldered 

 and have a spiral thread below the shoulder ; the sutures are dis- 

 tinct. 



This species is separated from Murex nigrispinosus Reeve, by the 

 whorl being more depressed. 



Murex nigrispinosus, Reeve (Fig. fi)* 



The embryonic nucleus consists of about one and a half polished, 

 rounded whorls; the first is a little rounded knob, and the second is 

 provided with a fine, thread-like carina close to the sut- 

 ure below ; the lateral outline of the whorls descend out- 

 wardly in a curve to the carina, and from the carina to 

 Fig. 6. the suture below it slants inward in a straight line ; the 

 second whorl is but little higher than the first. 



The last apical whorl ends with a thread-like varix, after which 

 they are succeeded by about two unarmed, high, unvarixed, rounded 

 whorls of slow increase, each crossed by thirteen small, rounded, 

 longitudinal ribs and scored by four fine, spiral lines ; the spinose 

 varices appear upon the fourth whorl ; the suture between the first 

 and second embryonic whorls is distinct. 



Separated from M. brevkplna Lam., by its more elongated form 

 and less impressed suture. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Murex ternispina, Lam. (Fig. 7). 



The nucleus consists of one and a half brown whorls ; a carina 

 begins near the end of the last embryonic whorl and runs into the 



a lowest spiral thread of the succeeding whorl ; this carina 

 is a very faint thread and is scarcely noticeable unless 

 looked for very closely ; the lateral outline shows a very 

 Fig. 7. decided rounded appearance ; the extreme point of the 

 embryonic whorl is a little depressed and bent down on one side. 



There is no varix at the end of the embryonic whorl ; the suc- 

 ceeding ribs commence gradually even before the end of the em- 

 bryonic whorl, and slowly increase in .size until the spinose varices 

 appear upon the fourth whorl ; there are nine ribs to each whorl 

 and these are crossed by four fine, spiral lines ; the suture between 

 the embryonic whorls is impressed. 



This species is separated from its congeners by the presence of a 

 thread-like carina near the ending of the embryonic whorl. 

 Murex tenuispina, Lam. (Fig. 8). 



The embryonic nucleus consists of two faintly yel- 

 lowish-white whorls ; the carina is quite close to the 

 suture of the whorl below and is almost concealed. 

 The varix at the end of the nucleus is small and 

 Fig. 8. rounded ; this is followed by close set, rounded ribs 



which continue until the spinose varices appear upon the fourth 

 whorl ; there are nine of these ribs to each whorl crossed by four 

 fine, spiral lines ; the suture between the embryonic whorls is im- 

 pressed. 



This species is separated from Murex brevispina Lam., by the less 

 rotund outline of the first embryonic whorl and by the outline of 

 the second being straight instead of rounded as in brevispina. 



Hurex recurvirostris, Sowb. (Fig. 9). 



The nucleus consists of about one and a half rounded, polished, 

 brownish whorls, of which the second part is but little larger in out- 



Aline than the first ; a lateral view of the outline shows 

 a rounded appearance; the top of the first part of the 

 whorl is rounded ; the tip of the embryonic whorl is 

 depressed and a little bent down on one side ; a carina 

 Fig. 9- commences near the last half of the apical whorl and 

 runs into the lowest spiral thread of the succeeding whorl. 



The varix at the end of the embryonic whorl is scarcely larger 

 than the succeeding ribs ; after the varix the whorls continue to be 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



nodulous until the spinose varices ap])ear upou the fourth whorl ; 

 there are about thirteen small, rounded ribs to each whorl, crossed 

 ])v four spiral threads; the suture is impressed. 



Separated from Murex rectirostris Sowh., l)y the more rounded 

 outline of the first part of the embryonic whorl and the absence of 

 the shoulder upon the second i)art. 

 Murex similis, Sowb. (Fig. 10). 



The nucleus c(msists of one and a half whitish, 

 smooth, rounded whorls; the lateral outline shows a 

 rounded appearance ; the first i)art of the whorl is a 

 little rounded knob. 

 Fig. lo. A sharp and well-defined varix appears at the end 



of the embryonic whorl, and this is followed by a number of high, 

 rounded ribs, which cease at the appearance of the spinose varices 

 upon the fourth whorl ; there are thirteen of these ribs to each whorl 

 crossed by four fine, spiral lines. 



This species is separated from Murex ternispina Lam., by the ab- 

 sence of the thread-like carina near the ending of the embryonic 

 whorl. The sutures are not so deep as in the latter species.. 

 Murex tryoni, Hidalgo. 



Upon examining this shell I was much surprised to find that it 

 had an apex identical with that of the preceding species. This may 

 prove to be but a variety of 31. similis as was thought by Dr. Dall. 

 Murex cailleti, Petit. 



The embryonic apex of this species is identical with both simi- 

 lis and tryoni. I have not been able, through lack of perfect speci- 

 mens, to examine the apex of the typical motaciUa of ('hemnitz. 

 Murex aduncospinosus, Beck. (Fig. 11). 



The nucleus consists of 2? blunt, conical, glossy, fulvus, flat-sided 



Awdiorls, which increase regularly from the apex ; the 

 last whorl is margined below by a very fine thread just 

 at the suture ; the lateral outline shows a cone of about 

 Fig. II. two regularly increasing whorls, of which the second is 

 twice as large as the first. 



There is a rounded varix of considerable size at the end of the last 

 embryonic whorl after which they are nodulously ribbed until the 

 hollow spines appear upon the sixth whorl ; these are crossed by 

 four fine, thread-like spiral lines ; the sutures of the embryonic 




72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



whorls are distiuot. This is the largest aj^)Ox of the Tribulus or 

 typical Mnrex gn.>up. 



The present species ditiers wholly fn.>iu all the other members of 

 this group in having two and one-halt' whorls instead of one as in 

 those hitherto described. The whorls are of a glassy texture, a feat- 

 ure not possessed by the other members of the group. 






1890.] NATIKAI. SCIENCES OF FIIILADELril lA. 



ON AKENICOLA CRISTATA AND ITS ALLIES. 



r.Y J. E. IVES. 



During the month of July of last year, my friend ^Ir. Uselma 

 C. Smith collected some specimens of a polychaetous worm, belong- 

 ing to the genus^4;-t''HVc)/a at Anglesea. about ten miles N. E. of Cape 

 May. on the New Jersey Coast. The first specimens seen by him lay 

 iipon tlie beaeh. apparently dead, having perchance left their 

 burrows in the endeavor to reach the water. Upon further examina- 

 tion he discovered a large colony concealed in the sand, along the 

 e»ige of a pool of water formed by the washing over of the sea. Four 

 of these specimens were obtained and subsequently handed over to 

 me in alcohol for identitication. 



They correspond closely to Arenieo/a cristata described by 

 Stimj^sou' in 185G from Charleston, South Carolina, and which, with 

 a doubtful exception.* has not since been reported from the United 

 States. In his recent paper" On Areuicola specimens from the Gulf 

 of Naples," Dr. K. Horst^ has given a detailed account of this species 

 from sj^ecimens obtained in the ^[editerranean. The forms from 

 Anglesea answer both in general and microscopical characters to Dr. 

 llorst's description, the only ditfereuce being that they possess on the 

 ventral surface of the caudal segments small papilhv. which will be 

 referred to again later. Dr. Horst has suggestetl the identity of this 

 species with Arenicola a// ^iV/t/kN'fV described by I^iitken* from the West 

 Indies, and u{>on examination I tind that theXew Jersey sj^cimens 

 correspond as closely as possible to Liitken's description. As alreadv 

 stated, there are on the ventral surface of the caudal segments small 

 papilhv. and these doubtless represent those observed by Dr. 

 Liitken in Arenicola antillensis. These papilhv. however, Dr. Ilorst 

 did not tind in the Mediterranean specimens, but their presence or 

 absence should not, in my opinion, be considered a specific character.. 

 The length of the longest specimen is about 250 mm. 



" Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Vol. 5, p. 114. 



* Webster," Annelida Cliretopoda of New Jersey," oOd Ann. Rep. New \'oik 

 St.ne Mus., 1S79, p. 117. 



5 Notes from the Leyden Museum, Vol. xi, p. -13. 



* Vidensk. Mcddcl. fra Naturk. Forening i Kjobenhavn, 1S64, p. lilO. 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Ill the collection of the Academy are six specimens from the 

 INIanatee River on the West Coast of Florida, which, although 

 presenting some slight differences, I regard as a variety o^ Arenicola 

 cristata. They have no papillse on the ventral surface of the caudal 

 segments ; the distal ends of the ventral bristles are not serrated and 

 the secondary branchiae have fewer tufts and are less regularly 

 arranged. The specimens are small, the longest about 140 mm. in 

 length, and may be immature. Ehlers^ in his work on Florida- 

 Annelids has already recorded this species from Florida under the 

 synonym of Arenicola antillensis. 



On account of the impossibility of drawing any sharp lines of 

 demarcation between the forms from the INIediterranean, New Jersey, 

 Florida and the West Indies, I venture to believe that they must be 

 regarded as representing one species, having an unusually wide 

 distribution. 



From my study of the other species of the genus in connection 

 with these forms from the New Jersey coast, I incline to the view put 

 forward by Dr. von Marenzeller,^ who, not including Arenicola cristata 

 and its synonym, Arenicola antillensis, reduces all the species of the 

 genus to two : — Arenicola marina, L. and Arenicola ecaudata, John- 

 .ston. The sixteen species of the genus which have been described 

 may therefore be reduced to the following three : 



Arenicola marina L. 6 prebranchial and 1 3 branchial segments, 

 secondary branchire with 3 or 4 pairs of lateral tufts. Europe, 

 Greenland, New England, Vancouver Island, Mediterranean, South 

 Africa, Chili (Coquimbo). 



Arenicola ecaudata, Johnston. 11-15 prebranchial and 13- 

 40 branchial segments ; secondary branchiae, arborescent. 



Europe, Mediterranean, Black Sea. 



Arenicola cristata, Stimpson. 6 prebranchial and 1 1 branchial 

 segments ; secondary branchiae, plumose. 



West Indies, Florida, South Carolina, New Jersey, Mediterranean. 



The occurrence of Arenicola marina on the northwest coast of 

 Alaska renders it i^robable that it will also be found upon the arctic 

 shores of Europe and Asia. From northwest Alaska it has un- 

 doubtedly passed southward to Vancouver Island through Behring 

 Strait, the western Gate of the North. Its distribution north and 



1 " Florida-Anneliden," Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. xv, p. 173. 



2 Zoologische Jalirbiichef, Bd. 3, pp. 12-15. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 75 



south of the Tropics is very anomalous, l)ut future study of the 

 intervening regions may throw some light upon the subject. The 

 presence of the three species in the warm waters of the Mediterranean 

 is interesting, and worthy of note. 



Our present knowledge of the distribution of the species of the 

 genus may be summarized as follows : Arenicola marina, occurs in 

 the temperate seas of both hemispheres, and in the arctic seas of the 

 north ; Arenicola eeaudata is confined to the temperate seas of 

 Europe, and Arenicola cristata is found in the temperate and tropical 

 Atlantic, and in the ^Mediterranean. 



References to the complete literature of the subject will be found 

 in Quatrefage's " Histoire Naturelle des Anneles, " and in the papers 

 by Drs. von. Marenzeller and Horst, already referred to. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890- 



NOTES ON THE GENESIS AND HORIZONS OF THE SERPENTINES OF 

 SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA. 



BY THEODORE D. RAND. 



Except the serpentine and steatite of Chestnut Hill, north of 

 Easton, Pa., the outcrops considered in these notes lie not far from 

 the Laurentian anticlinal which enters the State at Morrisville, 

 opposite Trenton, N. J., and extends in an almost unbroken belt to 

 the Maryland line. In width it varies. Generally narrow north- 

 east of the Schuylkill, but usually a prominent ridge, it sinks near 

 Abingdon to appear again southwest of Jenkintown for two or 

 three miles. At Chestnut Hill and the Wissahickon it again disap- 

 pears for a short distance, rising again to great elevation (350- 

 400 feet) with a width of nearly a mile at the Schuylkill. 



Mr. Hall's map show's the Laurentian crossing the Wissahickon 

 on the southwest flank of Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, northwest of 

 Thorp's lane, and Dr. Hunt^ speaks of the schists appearing on the 

 north side of the narrow Laurentian belt at Chestnut Hill. I 

 have been unable to find a trace of Laurentian along the 

 Wissahickon or at Chestnut Hill except on Pajier Mill Lane on 

 the northwest flank of Chestnut Hill. 



Southwest of the Schuylkill it preserves its elevation, its summits 

 nearly or quite 500 feet above tide, and it widens, until at Darby Creek 

 it is at least three miles wide, and north and south of Newtown Square 

 at least six, though in this longitude there may be included some 

 schist areas ; but the margins at Devon Inn, and south of Berwyu, on 

 the north, and Sycamore Mills on the south, are well defined and 

 exhibit the steep slopes with abundant outcrops so characteristic of 

 this group. Southwest of this the northerly margin trends about 

 S. S. W., passing West Chester one mile north of the Court House, 

 while the southerly margin, defined between Ridley and Chester 

 Creeks along Dismal Run by a px-ecipitous hill of 200 to 300 feet ele- 

 vation, becomes ill defined, but as observed by Prof Rogers- probably 

 takes a direction nearly west through or near Howellville, Delaware 

 Co., and Westtown, in Chester Co., the belt narrowing to less than 

 three miles. 



1 Min. Fhys. and Phys : p. 437. 



2 1st Geol. Survey of Pa., Vol. l,p. 77. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



Mr. Hall regards the rocks along Chester Creek from a mile south 

 of Lenni to Cheyneys station, except a narrow belt at Glen Mills, as 

 Laurentian underlying the schists and exposed by the deeper erosion 

 along the creek, ^ but they are so unlike any of the rocks in the ad- 

 mitted Laurentian belt and bear so close a resemblance to the hard- 

 er gneisses of the Manayunk series that I believe Prof. Rogers' 

 observations to be correct and that the Laurentian is included 

 between gently curved and almost straight lines and that it does not 

 present the contorted outline shown on Mr. Hall's map. These 

 rocks are more fully described in connection with the Glen Mills ser- 

 pentine. In the northwesterly boundary also of the Laurentian 

 my observations confirm those of Prof. Rogers. Mr. HalPs map 

 makes a schist area overlie the Laurentian from Bryn Mawr to 

 Wayne.- In this area, I have described' many outcrops of 

 typical Laurentian, well exposed, ■with not a trace of the schists west 

 of Rosemont except the narrow belt on the northwest of the Lauren- 

 tian along the bottom of Cream Valley. 



To define these areas more exactly will require very close and 

 careful observations of excavations hereafter made, for the covering of 

 soil in many places is so great that only thus can the underlying 

 rocks be known. 



This Laurentian belt is the third of Prof. Rogers. Immediately 

 southeast of it lies his second belt, and southeast of the second his 

 first. Of these he writes, and most accurate are his descriptions :- — 



The First or most southern general division or group, may be approximately 

 defined as extending from the lowest exposures on the river, or those near Gray's 

 Ferry, to the upper end of Manayunk ; the second or middle belt, extending from 

 Manayunk past the serpentine and soapstone range to a line a little north of the 

 upper boundary of the County or City of Philadelphia ; and the third or northern 

 extending thence to the northern edgeof the whole gneiss formation, and it is over- 

 laid or limited by the older primal rocks in the vicinity of Spring Mill. 



First Belt. The southern or Philadelphia belt contains the following chief 

 descriptions of ordinary gneissic rock, with many subvarieties. The most common 

 or typical variety of all is the gray, bluish, rather finely laminated triple mixture of 

 quartz, feldspar and mica, the quartz for the most part, white or transparent ; the feld- 

 spar usually white, and very generally somewhat chalky from incipient decomposi- 

 tion ; and the mica most commonly black or dark brown and in small plates. This 

 rock occasionally includes small insulated garnets. 



The next most common species is a dark bluish-gray, sometimes greenish-black 

 gneiss, composed of hornblende and quartz, with sometimes a little feldspar, the 

 hornblende always greatly predominating. The rock is very usually fine grained 

 and thinly bedded, its fracture and strucmre being controlled by the general paral- 

 lel crystallization of the prevailing hornblende. 



1 2nd Geol. Survey of Pa., C^ p. 2. 



2 Qs 22. 



3 2nd Geol. .Survey of Pa., An. Rep. 1S86, IV, p. 1573, etc. 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



A third common variety of the gneiss of this group is a micaceous quartzose rock, 

 generally of a light gray color. Some beds of this species contain such a predom- 

 inance of the crystalline quartz, in minute granular divisions, and such a subordi- 

 nate amount of minutely disseminated mica, as to have a character of ordinary gray 

 whetstone ; but this species of the gneiss is much more abundant in the middle 

 belt than in the southern one. A much coarser kind of gray micaceous gneiss, con- 

 sisting of a predominance of rather large flakes of mica, with a subordinate quan- 

 tity of feldspar and quartz, occurs interstratihed with all these other species, as a 

 very usual transition variety between the standard gray gneiss and the highly mica- 

 ceous kinds verging toward mica-slate. 



It is very usual to find the typical gneiss, of a three-fold constitution, alternating 

 with the hornblende species, and both of these alternating with the quartzose mica- 

 ceous variety. As a general fact, not without exceptions, however, the more mica- 

 ceous the rock is, the greater is the abundance in insulated crystals of common gar- 

 net. 



Interposed among the above varieties of true gneiss are beds, more or less thick, 

 of kinds so abounding in mica as to be entitled to the designation of true mica- 

 slate. This rock prevails in two or three outcrops, both above and below Colum- 

 bia Bridge, and it may be stated generally, that the further north we advance across 

 the southern division of the gneiss, the larger is the proportion of the more mica- 

 ceous varieties of the ordinary gneiss, and the greater the frequency of these bands 

 of mica-slate. 



An interesting variety of the ordinary or more feldspathic kind, is one containing 

 large, more or less insulated segregations of crystalline feldspar, the longer axes of 

 whose crystals lie generally parallel with the lamination of the rock. This variety 

 may be designated as a porphyritic gneiss, having that feature of an excess of crys- 

 talline feldspar which is accepted by geologists as a distinctive character of the por- 

 phyritic rocks and being, moreover, essentially similar to those well-known and 

 beautiful granites which geologists agree to call Porphyritic. 



A band of this porphyritic gneiss occurs at the Falls of Schuylkill, just below 

 the quarries, and ranges toward Nicetown in one direction, and toward the 

 tollgate at the Lancaster Road, five miles west of Philadelphia, in the other. 

 Another outcrop of the same feldspathic variety of the gneiss may be seen 

 crossing the West Chester Plank Readjust east of Darby Creek. 



The Second or Middle Belt. The middle zone of the gneiss of Southern 

 Pennsylvania, as it crosses the Schuylkill, consists of an alternation of four princi- 

 pal varieties. Perhaps the most abundant of these is a very micaceous species of 

 the ternary or mica, quartz and feldspar rock, holding garnets in greater or less pro- 

 fusion. A very common feature in this rock is a wavy or minutely undulated 

 lamination, arising apparently from a contorted or wavy structure in the coarsely 

 crystallized mica, its predominant mineral. This would seem to proceed from the 

 interference of the innumerable planes of cleavage, or — what is the same thing — of 

 crystalline lamination, with the original planes of the deposition of strata. The 

 twisted forms of the flakes of mica are frequently seen to be due to the displacing 

 effect of grains, or crystalline bunches of included quartz. It would seem as if 

 these minerals had crystallized or segregated, from their parent sedimentary 

 materials, under a conflict of forces, the newly awakened crystalline energies 

 being not always parallel to the original bedding of the deposit, but more fre- 

 quently oblique to it. 



Perhaps the most common subdivision of the gneiss of this middle tract is a 

 variety consisting almost exclusively of the above described wavy mica. This 

 rock graduates into the more micaceous sorts of gneiss, by containing a less or 

 greater mixture of finely granulated crystalline quartz or feldspar or hornblende. 

 The southern half of the gneissic zone before us is characterized on the Schuyl- 

 kill and Wissahickon, by containing an alternation of the above two varieties of 

 micaceous gneiss or mica-slate, with beds of hornblende gneiss, the last-named 

 rock being, from its thin lamination, sometimes entitled to the name of hornblende 

 slate. The northern half of the zone consists largely of a fourth variety of the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



more schistose class of the gneissic rocks. This is a gray fine grained binary 

 mixture of granular quartz and minutely crystallized scales of mica, the quartz 

 being the prevailing element. It is a species of whetstone and some of the more 

 quaitzose bands would furnish masses well suited for employment as whetstones 

 for scytlies. A very common, indeed a characteristic of this quite remarkable 

 and extensive division of the micaceous gneiss group, consists in its peculiar 

 fracture; the rocks breaking into long narrow chunks, comparatively smooth on 

 their sides, but excessively ragged on their ends; a style of fracture strongly 

 resembling that of half rotted fibrous wood. This peculiar rock is in greatest 

 force toward the northern side of the middle gneiss belt, or between the serpen- 

 tine or steatite, and the hard feldspathic gneiss of the southern margin of the 

 third or northern gneissic belt. It is interstratified toward its southern side, with 

 more or less frequent and thick bodies of the other variety of mica slate possessing 

 mica in large and twisted scales, with an abundance of garnets. On its northern 

 side it alternates to some extent with a greenish talcose slate, or, what is the same 

 thing, the talc in this quarter replaces the mica in whole or in part in certain 

 divisions of the group." 



There is probably in the rock termed by Rogers " altered primal" 

 (whatever may be its geological age) a key rock, for this seems to 

 lie quite persistently along both edges of the Laurentian though only 

 occasionally visible. West of the Schuylkill it is well exposed, but 

 it may be seen also at Willistown and near Westtown, Chester Co. 

 It is thus described by Prof. Rogers, p. 154 : — 



" In the district of the Schuylkill and Wissahickon, the three members of which 

 the primal series there consist, present the following aspects and dimensions : 



The lowest or semi-porphyroidal group, evidently an altered sandy-slate or ar- 

 gillaceous sandstone, is remarkable for the regular parallelism of its lamination and 

 bedding; the laminaj alternately light and dark, being exceedingly thin, many of 

 them usually packing within the thickness of an inch. These laminae consist, 

 where the rock wears its most metamorphosed form, of white earthy imperfectly 

 developed feldspar, and perfectly developed hornblende. Besides these alternate 

 whitish and dark streaks, the cross fracture of the rock displays a multitude ofovoi- 

 dal concretionary crystallizations, generally only specks in size, but sometimes of 

 the dimension of bullets, the larger and better formed concretions being frequently 

 genuine crystals of feldspar. In some of the layers certain laminae are studded 

 with isolated crystallizations of hornblende." 1st Geological Survey of Pennsyl- 

 vania, Vol. 1, Page 68. 



Mr. Hall divides Rogers' first and second groups into three, in- 

 serting a belt (the Manayunk schists) between Rogers' first and 

 second ^ and states that it contains " alternations of the varieties 

 of gneiss characteristic of the first belt and a predominance of 

 sandy gneiss composed of quartz and a small amount of feldspar 

 and mica in minute flakes. Mica schists and hornblendic slate 

 alternate with finer grained gneisses, the mica usually light colored." 

 He further states that it includes part of Rogers' second belt. 



It is possible that this arises from a misunderstanding of Prof, 

 Rogers' use of the term " upper end of Manayunk," which is ev- 

 idently used loosely. Rogers says " approximately defined." In- 



1 2nd Geol. Surv. Penna. C p. 2. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



asmuch as just above Mauayunk the more massive and less garnet- 

 iferous schists of the first belt are well exposed, while about two 

 miles above the centre of Manayunk the rocks of his second belt 

 occur in most characteristic form, is it not most probable Prof. 

 Rogers intended to refer to this point, especially, as when he wrote 

 there was no well known place nearer than Manayunk? INIr. Hall's 

 term, however, is convenient, but I regard it, and use it in these 

 notes, rather as a synonym for all of Rogers' first belt except the 

 Fairmount gneiss, and the porphyritic gneiss. 



By far the best exposure of these rocks as described is along the 

 Schuylkill, but the structure is far from clear. The Fairmount 

 gneiss, identical with the gneiss at the Chester, Leiperville and 

 Avondale quarries is generally supposed to underlie the more mica- 

 ceous rocks to the northwestward, yet almost everywhere is a pretty 

 uniform northerly dip. There are alternations of soft highly mica- 

 ceous schists passing by an increase of quartz and feldspar and 

 decrease of mica into gneissoid schists and gneiss, also hornblende 

 schists and gneisses, but in no case, except perhaps northwest and 

 southeast of the porphyritic gneiss can a repetition be found to 

 prove the apparent monoclinal to be, as it has been supposed to be, 

 a succession of compressed synclinals and anticlinals. 



To the southeastward, the rocks as a rule are highly micaceous, 

 and in these the Faiimount gneiss appears to rise as an anticlinal. 

 In the cut of the Pennsylvania Railroad, about 33rd Street, thesouth- 

 easterl}' dip at a moderate angle was clearly shown ; the northwest- 

 erly edge has not been uncovered, but the strata weie nearly hori- 

 zontal and were succeeded by mica schist within a hundred yards. 



The mica schists are visible southeast of the Fairmount gneiss, with 

 gentle undulating dips, on the west side of the Pennsylvania Railroad 

 near Powelton Avenue, and on both sides, at the approach to the 

 tunnel at 31st and Market Streets ; northwestward of the Fairmount 

 gneiss are alternations of mica schists, micaceous gneiss, hornblendic 

 gneiss and allied rocks to the Falls of Schuylkill. 



On the Schuylkill a short distance west of the Girard Avenue 

 bridge there was exposed a rock, mica schist on the outside, horn- 

 blende schist within, and the passage of the one into the other was 

 evident. At the quarry (now a coal yard) on the Germantown road 

 at the crossing of the Germantown branch of the Reading Railroad, 

 a similar change was apparent, the micaceous mineral here being the 

 Philadelphite. INIay not these occurrences throw light upon the fact 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



that the hornblende rocks are more abundant in the deeper valleys 

 and upon the remarkable alternation of hornblende schist and mica 

 schist? 



At the Falls of Schuylkill we find the porphyritic gneiss before 

 spoken of. This porphyritic gneiss Mr. Hall does not mention. 

 Prof. Rogei's regards it as a mere alternation, but its great difference 

 from any other of the rocks of the region, its surprising uniformity 

 over long distances, both with and across the strike, in a region in 

 which the alternations are as numerous as in this, as well as the 

 fact that it widens rajndly southwestward, preserving all its charac- 

 ters, points to it as more than a mere stratum. 



On the east side of the Schuylkill its visible width is not over two 

 or three hundred feet. On Cobb's Creek it is nearly four miles. Its 

 visible length is over eight miles ; the southwesterly part much cov- 

 ered with soil. 



On Cobb's Creek it is ver}' well exposed. The southerly part is 

 most porphyritic ; in the central parts, and north of the centre, 

 schists appear with chai'acters of the Manayunk, and also of the 

 Chestnut Hill series, while to the northwest the true porphyritic hard 

 gneiss is well exposed about a quarter of a mile from the Chestnut 

 Hill schists, near St. Denis Church, with no ]\Ianayunk schists visi- 

 ble intervening. 



The hardness of this rock makes it everywhere prominent, and 

 next to the Laurentian ridge, it is by far the most distinct formation 

 of the region. While at the Schuylkill apparently monoclinal, and 

 interstratified in the mica schists, I am disposed to regard it as an an- 

 ticlinal, and at Cobb's Creek as two anticlinals, with an included 

 synclinal of the schists. On each side of it, the schists exhibit cer- 

 tain peculiarities alike on both sides, and on the northwest side near 

 Wynnewood, and on Cobb's Creek, it appears to dip beneath the 

 schists. 



In this porphyritic belt there is granite, unlike any other granite 

 of the region. This granite is usually very coarse, composed of a 

 flesh colored orthoclase and a peculiar chalk-white feldspar appar- 

 ently not at all decomposed, but with very little lustre. It contains 

 but little mica and quartz, much the larger part being the two 

 feldspars, and it seems to be in small segregated masses in the schists 

 rather than in beds or veins. Part of it is schistose. Sometimes it 

 is a graphic granite, the structure developed by weathering and not 

 conspicuous otherwise. Rarely it contains tourmaline, and no 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



other minenil so far as I have observed, thus differing greatly from 

 the granite of the Fairmount gneiss. 



Some narrow bands of this gneiss are not porphyritic and are a 

 very fine grained hard gneiss. Near Merion Station, Pennsylvania 

 Railroad, one stratum closely resembles the helleflinta of Danne- 

 mora. In the old quarry at the Falls of Schuylkill, immediately 

 west of the stone bridge of the Reading Railroad there was quar- 

 ried a gneiss, somewhat resembling the Fairmount gneiss, but por- 

 phyritic, which the Fairmount gneiss is not. The Falls rock con- 

 tains more feldspar and much less mica, and is much more compact. 



In a quarry on the west bank of the Schuylkill, about a quarter 

 of a mile above the Park bridge, at the Falls, a great variety of 

 rock may be seen, and it is not certain whether this quarry is in the 

 porphyritic belt, or in the Manayunk gneiss. There is much coarse 

 granite like that of the porphyry, also highly feldspathic gneiss 

 like that of the lower quarry, but some beds show the mica so abun- 

 dant as to make a true mica schist, and the curved and twisted feld- 

 spathic layers hereafter referred to are found. In this quarry, pyrite 

 and magnetopyrite occur with epidote which appears to be chang- 

 ing into hornblende. 



On both sides of the porphyry, at the Schuylkill and west of it, 

 the rocks are not essentially different. On the southeast they are 

 somewhat softer and more evenly bedded and hornblende schist is 

 more abundant, but in both there is the same evidence of folding and 

 contortion, particularly exhibited by certain narrow feldspathic 

 veins or beds, compressed sometimes to less than one-sixth their orig- 

 inal length. So far as this region is concerned, this seems to be con- 

 fined to the schists lying on each side of the porphyritic gneiss, and, on 

 Cobb's creek, within it. It is in these schists that the serpentine 

 rocks of Cresheim creek on the Wissahickon occur and also proba- 

 bly all, or nearly all, of the southerly Delaware county outcrops. 

 While the ]\Ianayunk schists contain garnets they are not abundant, 

 but often large. 



There is one gneiss in Philadelphia which presents many points of 

 difference from the other schists and gneisses of the region. This is 

 the Frankford gneiss, best exposed at the quarries on Frankford 

 creek. This gneiss is distinctly stratified. It contains compara- 

 tively little mica and hornblende, some specimens are strictly felsite 

 and granulite. It is extremely hard and of even texture making ex- 

 cellent paving stone when properly broken for that purpose. Its 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



granite veins, or more properly segregations, are chiefly ortlioclase 

 which contains at times G<ithite in minute crystals ; muscovite occurs 

 in the granite, but not in large quantities, also a highly lustrous 

 black mica, which Prof. Lewis determined to be lepidomelane.^ 

 The gneiss is considerably jointed, and many of these joints are filled 

 with stilbite in radiated crystallizations. Heulandite and apophyllite, 

 the latter in very fine specimens, also occur in these joints. 



Calcite occurs in small quantity apparently filling joint fissures, and 

 in the calcite, fine crystals of epidote. Copper minerals occur, 

 also molybdenite, at times abundantly, and sometimes in remark- 

 ably fine crystals showing the planes of the dome as well as the 

 prismatic planes, perfectly bright and sharp. Sphene and uranium 

 minerals occur, but the Autunnite so common in the Fairmount and 

 Chester gneiss has not been detected, while sphene and molybdenite 

 have not been found in the Fairmount gneiss.^ The strike of this 

 gneiss is nearly due west, and outcrops of it occur at Wayne station, 

 Germantown, and at McKinney's quarry on the Wissahickon. The 

 late Prof. H. Carvill Lewis regarded this gneiss as " a highly met- 

 amorphosed intrusive dyke of Lower Silurian*age." ^ 



There is another rather insignificant outcrop of a rock which does 

 not fall within the description of any of the group, exposed on the 

 Pennsylvania Railroad at 59tli Street. It is chiefly a very compact 

 felsite when not weathered, but some portions seem to be a mica schist. 

 It is peculiar in containing a large percentage of pyrite, in some of the 

 beds causing rapid disintegration on exposure, while others equally 

 pyritiferous, but more compact, are perfectly stable. It apparently 

 occupies a synclinal just southeast of the porphyritic gneiss, the axis 

 of the synclinal pitches downward northeastward about thirty 

 degrees. 



The rocks of Rogers' second group, Mr. Hall's Chestnut Hill 

 schists, are in certain areas very well marked, especially the garnet- 

 iferous variety, and that in which the wood-like structure is most 

 developed, but there are areas difficult indeed to distinguish from the 

 Manayunk schists. This may be well seen along the Wissahickon 

 where the exposures are excellent yet no line can be drawn between 

 the two, and in the Chestnut Hill schists, at Middleton's quarry, about 



1 Pioc. Min. and GeoJ. Sec. A. N. S. No. 1, p. 11. 



2 Molybdenite however occurs at Upland near Chester, perhaps in the Fair- 

 mountChester gneiss. 



3 Nature, Oct. 8, 1885, p. 560. 




84 PROCEEDINIJS OF THE ACADEMY OE [1890. 



1000 feet northwest of Thorp's Lane and the steatite belt, is a bed of 

 porphyritic granite, or granulite, clearly interstratified in the 

 schists. Just below Thorj)'s Lane the peculiar contorted structure 

 is well shown. 



It is in these Chestnut Hill schists that the soapstoue or steatite 

 belt is found, and these rocks bound it on both sides, though at the 

 Soapstone quarry on the northeast bank of the Schuylkill, at con- 

 siderable depth, there was a hornblendic gneiss as the southeast wall, 

 which, next to the steatite, passed gradually into chlorite. 



It is to these schists that I understand jNIr. Hall to believe^ that 

 all the serpentines of the district are confined (except the Cresheim 

 Creek, the Flushing and the steatite of the northerly Radnor belt 

 near Gulf Mills) and it is these which he continues along the line of 

 the Pennsylvania Railroad from the Lafayette belt at'Rosemont to 

 the Radnor belt at Radnor station so as to include them both. But 

 I have shown that this region is Laurentian and that schists are 

 absent.^ 



JNIr. Hall suggests that Mill creek may be the boundary between 

 the Manayunk and Chestnut Hill schists, but it is remarkable that 

 though ]\Iill creek rises in these soft schists and the slopes of the 

 Laurentian bordering them to the northwest, it crosses the border 

 into the harder rocks and has cut through them a deep narrow val- 

 ley to the river, close to, but S. E. of, the border line of the soft 

 schists. 



In the Chestnut Hill schists, west of the Schuylkill, are strata 

 of white quartz becoming rusty on exposure. Seen occasionally in 

 place, as on the Roberts road, and in the Railroad cut at Bryn Mawr, 

 they are more frequently the only rock in the soil, and sometimes 

 are very abundant, affording a guide to these schists, where they 

 have decomposed out of sight, but not a certain guide, for in some 

 places, as north of Morton, they seem to overlie the Manayunk 

 schists. Perhaps the Chestnut Hill schists did overlie, and have 

 been eroded, the hard quartzite only being left. This quartz occurs 

 in large quantity at the narrow exposure of the schists in Marple. 



Southwestward of the Schuylkill the divisions given above are not 

 so distinct. The section on Cobb's Creek shows the porphyritic 

 gneiss within a quarter of a mile of the soft garnetiferous schists, but 

 here rocks, apparently of the jNIanayunk series, but nuich resembling 



1 C« p. 3. 



2 2nd Geol. Survey of Pa., An. Rep. 1888, Part iv, p. 1573. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



some of the Chestnut Hill rocks, occur between outcrops of the 

 porphyritic gneiss, all dips seeming to be northerly. Among the 

 schists there are outcrops of a granite differing from that of the 

 Fairmount gneiss as before described. 



Examining the section exposed along Darby creek, we find mica 

 schists and gneisses of the Manayunk varieties, both feldspathic and 

 hornblendic ; indeed some of the hornblendic variety is almost en- 

 tirely hornblende with a little quartz, or a diorite. The porphyritic 

 gneiss occurs, and not far from it the soft mica schists, here in many 

 of the beds, little more than granular quartz with a little mica form- 

 ing whetstone, but in these occur beds of hard granitoid gneiss and 

 of hornblendic gneiss. 



Along Crum creek we find at Avondale an outcrop of the Fair- 

 mount gneiss well exposed by quarries, it being the most valuable 

 building stone of this part of the State and at this point and on Rid- 

 ley creek can be well seen the segregated masses of coarse granite 

 which have here, as well as at Fairmount, yielded to mineralogists 

 fine cabinet specimens of interesting minerals most of which are 

 confined to this stratum. 



• Above this, near Swarthmore, is a considerable exposure of mica- 

 ceous gneiss and mica schist, some of it very compact and hard and 

 some of it containing garnet and audalusite. In this neighborhood 

 occur also hornblendic schist and gneiss in considerable quantity. 

 Northwest of this is the most westerly outcrop of the porphyritic 

 gneiss of which the writer is aware. It is on the road leading north 

 from Morton station one hundred yards north of the turnpike and 

 about a mile from Morton. The strike is N. 10° W. dip 75° N. E. 

 North of this are decomposed schists, with no good exposures. The 

 strike near Trout Run was N. 10° E., the dip 30° to 60° S. E., 

 and the schists were apparently of the Chestnut Hill group. Here, 

 interbedded in the schists, are narrow beds of a syenitic gneiss which 

 seems to be characteristic of this horizon. Rarely seen in place, it 

 is found southeast of the Laurentian from the Schuylkill to Crum 

 Creek strewn over the fields and along the roads, conspicuous by 

 reason of the hornblende in it being very evident on the exposed 

 surfaces as small crystalline masses, and by its invariably undecom- 

 posed condition. It occurs also northwest of the Laurentian in 

 schists on the property of the late Moro Phillips, about half a mile 

 from the Schuylkill on the southeastern side of Cream valley near 

 Conshohocken. I have observed this rock in place in three locali- 




86 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ties only, that on Trout Run, on the Roberts road at the crossing of 

 the old Lancaster road, and at Moro Phillips'. In none of these 

 were the outcrops over two or three inches wide. 



On Crum creek the porphyritic gneiss has not been observed nor 

 the Chestnut Hill schists, though the latter may be under cover 

 northwest of Palmer Mills. The visible rocks seem all to be of the 

 Manayunk group. 



Along Ridley creek the Fairmount gneisses are exposed and have 

 been largely quarried. On the right bank near the road from 

 Philadelphia to Chester there is a large quarry in hornblendic 

 gneiss directly opposite (about one-eighth of a mile west of) two of 

 the largest quarries in Fairmount gneiss. Above this are schists 

 and gneisses similar to those along Crum Creek, except that north 

 of Media, and also northwest of Media, enstatite appears in the 

 schists. The softer Chestnut Hill schists with their garnets and 

 ragged fracture are not to be recognized. It appears probable that 

 they narrow in INIarple township so as to occupy but two or three 

 hundred feet, between the enstatite-serpentine near the Marple 

 Barren Hill school house, and the antholite-serpentine to the south- 

 east and that they then disappear. The exjiosures however are poor, 

 and this is not certain. 



Along Chester Creek, similar Manayunk schists and gneisses 

 occur, but more massive, and harder, containing more feldspar, 

 hornblende and quartz and less mica. From Bridgewater Station 

 northward, hornblendic gneiss increases in quantity and the felds- 

 pathic gneisses become harder and more massive, but everywhere 

 they are more or less schistose and distinctly stratified, and do not 

 at all resemble the Laurentian of the Radnor-West Chester belt, 

 which, with all its distinctive characters, is found within two miles of 

 them east of Glen Mills. 



Occasional hand sj^ecimens resemble some of the Laurentian, but 

 in the field the differences are striking. 



On the high ground adjacent to all these creeks the decomposition 

 of the rocks has been so great that in comparatively few places can 

 outcrops be observed. The mica schists and softer gneisses become 

 a micaceous and kaolin-like earth. The hornblendic and harder 

 feldspathic gneisses break up into schist-like pieces and these again, 

 when containing much hornblende, into a very deep reddish-yellow 

 soil, in which at moderate depths hornblendic fragments may be 

 found. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 87 



Mr. Hall ^ thinks that what has been taken for the dip of the 

 gneisses and schists in southern and southeastern Delaware County is 

 cleavage, and that instead of their lying at high angles, they are not 

 far from horizontal, overlying each other, the Philadelphia gneisses 

 the lowest, the Manayunk schists the next, and the Chestnut Hill 

 schists the highest. He places the serpentines, except those of Flush- 

 ing and of Cresheim creek, all in one horizon and above the Chestnut 

 Hill schists. 



The hard hornblendic gneiss, as heretofore stated, he deems Lau- 

 rentian underlying unconforniably the other rocks and exposed by 

 erosion along the streams. So far as my examination has gone, 

 and I have examined many hundreds of outcrops, I have been 

 unable to verify ]\Ir. Hall's conclusions, and I believe the dips to be 

 almost without exception at high angles generally towards the north- 

 west, except along Chester Creek northward of Lenni, where the 

 prevailing dip is southeast and less steep. Rejecting the segregated 

 granitic veins often found, the distribution of the rock-making ma- 

 terials will be found not at low angles, but nearly vertical. Very 

 evident is this when one of the many hornblendic beds occurs be- 

 tween micaceous and feldspathic rocks, but careful search has shown 

 it in nearly every locality where the exposure was at all good. The 

 want of uniformity in the various strata makes this all the more dis- 

 tinct. There is one exposure in Deshongs' quarry on Ridley creek, 

 west of the Philadelphia and West Chester road at which mica 

 schists appear to rest unconformably upon the Fairmount gneiss, 

 but the exposure is far from good, and there is no other to my knowl- 

 edge. 



If ]\Ir. Hall's theory is correct, we should find in ascending the 

 hills from the creeks a decided change in the rocks ; but, except 

 that due to decomposition, no such change exists ; on the summits, 

 where exposed l)y road cuttings, the decomposed rocks are identical 

 with those in the adjacent valleys. Besides this, the harder gneisses, 

 both feldspathic and micaceous and hornblendic, which occur 

 beyond all doubt interstratified in the mica schists, cannot be dis- 

 tinguished lithologically, from those of the areas about Chester creek 

 colored Laurentian on the map in C". The peculiar weathering of 

 the Laurentian is absent, there is no blue quartz, and there is no 

 line of demarkation between the areas colored Laurentian, and those 

 colored schists on Mr. Hall's map, beyond Avhat would be easily and 



^ Second Geolog. Survey Pa., Vol. C= pp. 2 and 59, etc. 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



wholly accounted for by the greater hardness and want of decomposi- 

 tion of the rocks where deep erosion has taken place. 



The 'question of the relative age of these rocks seems most difficult. 

 Prof. Rogers' view is given as follows, p. 79 : — 



" If we now review these interesting features in the structure of this broad zone 

 of gneiss, we can hardly resist the conclusion, that in the three belts passed over 

 by our section, there are really but two groups of rocks, a lower and a higher; that 

 the entire zone, viewed broadly, constitutes but one wide synclinal wave or basin, 

 tiie harder felclspathic and hornblendic gneiss dipping northward throughout the 

 whole southern belt or outcrop and reappearing in steep and multiplied contortions 

 on the other side of the trough, and compressed into the lesser foldings which it 

 exhibits, by the lateral force of the wide crust undulation, within which it has been 

 caught and folded." 



That is, that the Fairmount and Manayunk gneisses formed the 

 southeasterly leg of the synclinal, the Laurentian the northwesterly,, 

 with the Chestnut Hill schists overlying. Dr. T. Sterry Hunt refers 

 to the identification of the rocks of Rogers' third belt with the Lau- 

 rentian and, in his valuable contribution to American Geology 

 published by the Second Geological Survey, Vol. E., seems to regard 

 the Chestnut Hill schists as Huronian, the Manayunk and Fair- 

 mount gneiss and schists as Montalban overlying them, and in these 

 views the lamented Prof. Lewis who made considerable study of 

 these rocks is well known to have coincided,^ though later^ he con- 

 cludes that they are of purely eruptive origin, that a re-crystalliza- 

 tion of the old material under the influence of pressure-fluxion has 

 taken place, by which the feldspar has been re-crystallized, the biotite 

 made out of the hornblende, garnets have been developed and the 

 quartz granulated and optically distorted by the pressure. 



Dr. Hunt's description of the Montalban as given in IMin. 

 Physiology and Physiography, p. 411, will be found to accord in 

 every particular except the " dichroite gneiss and crystalline lime- 

 stone, " with the rocks described in the Manayunk and Chestnut 

 Hill groups. It is as foUoAvs : — 



"As regards this younger gneissic or Montalban series in North 

 America, it need here only be said that it contains fine-grained 

 white gneisses, sometimes porphyritic, but distinct from the granitoid 

 gneisses of the Laurentian, and passing into granulites, on the one 

 hand, and into very quartzose coarse-grained mica schists, on the 

 other. It also includes hornblendic gneisses and black hornblende 

 schists, together with serpentine chrysolite rocks, dichroite-gneiss 



1 Geol. of Phila., a lecture before the Franklin Inst., Jan. 12, 1882, p. 18. 



2 Proc. British Assn. in Nature, Oct. 1st, 1885, p. 560. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 89 



and crystalline limestone. The mica schists of the series often con- 

 tain garnets, staurolite, andalusite, fibrolite and cyanite, while in 

 the granitic veins which traverse the series are found tourmaline 

 beryl and cassiterite. The total thickness of the Montalban is ap- 

 parently much greater than that assigned to the Huronian, upon 

 which it sometimes rests unconformably, or in the absence of the 

 Huronian, as is often the case, directly upon the Laurentian." 



Mr. Hall's views have already been given, viz., that the Phila- 

 delphia gneisses are the lowest except the Laurentian, the ^Nlanayunk, 

 schists next, the Chestnut Hill schists above and the serpentines the 

 highest.^ He further states : — 



" I think there is no possibility of assigning the rocks of the 

 Philadelphia Manayunk and Chestnut Hill groups (the First and 

 Second belts of Prof. Rogers) to any place below the slates of the 

 South Valley Hill or Hudson River groups. But to what horizon 

 in the palaeozoic column they belong must remain for the present un- 

 certain." C p. 9. 



This generalization is derived chiefly from the finding of Potsdam 

 and No. 2 Limestone between the Laurentian and the schists. Prof. 

 Lewis described itacolumite southeast of the Laurentian, east of the 

 Schuylkill and the writer found a similar rock west of the Schuyl- 

 kill.- !Mr. Hall's observation has been doubted, but it would seem 

 without reason except that he gave no exact locality to enable others 

 to confirm his observation. A full description may therefore be of 

 interest. 



Passing southeastward along the North Pennsylvania Railroad 

 from Edge Hill Station, Ave pass through the well-known deep cut 

 through the Potsdam of the Barren Hill belt. We then pass 

 for a mile throuo-h a vallev, and then come to the garnetiferous schists 

 of the Chestnut Hill belt at Jenkintown. 



In this valley, a mile northeastward of the railroad, Laurentian? 

 is abundant in the form of large masses on the surface. Southwest- 

 ward, high ground is soon reached on which the fields are full of' 

 Laurentian fragments. About .6 miles W. 5° S. of Glenside station is. 

 a W'Ood in which is a small quarry exposing about 50 feet vertically 

 of Laurentian rocks, some N. 30° E. dipping 55° N. W. in the 

 southeasterly part of the quarry. In the northwesterly part the 

 rock is much jointed, the joints irregular. 



1 C5 pp. 2, 59, etc. 



2 2nd. Geol. Survey of Pa., An. Rep. 188G. Part IV, p. 1595. 



7 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



W. 20° S. .4 miles from Glenside, on the east side of the Limekiln 

 Pike, the Potsdam is best exposed. This is in a quarry about a 

 hundred yards south of the Waverly road, but the same belt is con- 

 spicuously exposed on the Waverly road southeast and southwest of 

 the pike, the Waverly road changing its direction from northwest 

 to southwest at the pike and hence crossing the belt twice. The 

 Potsdam here makes a ridge or hill, known as Waverly Heights, 

 southeastward of the Laurentian hill. In the quarry it looks ex- 

 ceedingly like that in the quarries to the northwest (Barren Hill belt) 

 except that the bedding is less regular, the quartz more cherty, and 

 the rock harder. In the quarry the strike was N. 80° E. dip 70° 

 S. E., on the road southeast N. 70° E. dip S. E., and on the road south- 

 west N. 65° E. 70°-80° S. E. Southeast of this no exposures were 

 seen, but there were schistose fragments. The strike of the Potsdam 

 carries it into the bold hill to the northwest, the southeast hill of the 

 Whitemarsh or Montgomery valley, Potsdam entirely at Edge Hill, 

 l)ut further southwest covered with Laurentian fragments and con- 

 tinuing (of schists) to form Chestnut Hill. The soil seems deep, and 

 no exposures were observed. One mass of Bryn Mawr gravel was 

 seen. 



On the Paper Mill road, which skirts the hill on the northwest, 

 :SOuthwest of the road which southeastward forms the northeast line 

 of Philadelphia, the ground is low until within a half mile of the 

 turnpike. Here is a spur of Chestnut Hill, and on the road cutting 

 :at the summit is Laurentian, poorly exposed, consisting of one large 

 mass, and eight smaller, all having exactly the same strike about 

 N. 35° E., and therefore I believe in place. 200-300 feet S. W. is 

 Potsdam abundant, striking N. 80° E. ; following this, are schists in- 

 terbedded apparently with Potsdam ; mostly soft and decomposed 

 but showing the same strike and probably a steep easterly dij). 



These schists resemble very strongly the schists southeast of the 

 Laurentian west of the Schuylkill which include a white rock closely 

 resembling the Potsdam, 



I believe this to be an unconformable contact between the Lau- 

 rentian and the Potsdam and that the schists immediately southeast 

 of the Laurentian are Potsdam. 



It is, of course, possible that these schists are more recent than the 

 Potsdam, and formed from its debris, but the evidence seems very 

 strong that here at least they are not older. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



These schists continue about one-eifjhth of a mile to low ground 

 and a creek, southwest of which schists resembling the spangled mica 

 schist occur, and continue, poorly exposed, to the turnpike. The 

 strike of a bed of hard gneiss in the schist is N. 85° E. Here the 

 Pajjer Mill road ends, though shown on maps to continue. In fact 

 Thorp's Lane about .1 mile northwest continues to the Wissahickon. 

 On this, schists are seen with a strike N. 65° E. and soon the steatite 

 and serpentine N. 55° E. The road is nearly on this strike but a 

 little more southerly, so that near the creek it lies to the southeast 

 of the steatite which here appears to be synclinal, the schists to the 

 southeast regularly bedded dipping N. 40° W. 50° while the serpentine 

 rocks on the northwest side dip slightly S. E. The schists to the 

 northwest are about vertical. Here, as at the North Pennsylvania 

 Railroad, there has been an ancient gap in the Laurentian ridge 

 which further southwest appears as a very bold hill united with the 

 schistose hill at the Ridge turnpike, but toward the Schuylkill 

 separated from the schists by a valley in which the Lafayette serpen- 

 tine makes its appearance at its extreme northeast outcrop. 



If we study the rocks of Cream Valley, the corresponding rocks 

 on the northwest side of the Laurentian anticlinal, we find evidence 

 that the schists there are in connection with the Potsdam. 



In this narrow valley we find garnetiferous schists strongly resem- 

 bling some of those southeast of the Laurentian. Close to these, but 

 beyond them, is Potsdam, beyond it Rogers' altered primal, and 

 limestone. All seem to be conformable, and the schists and the 

 Potsdam appear at one locality northeast of Wayne to be inter- 

 stratified. The exposures are very poor. 



The altered primal includes pebbles of Laurentian, some of large 

 size. 



The Radnor serpentine appears to lie between the Laurentian and 

 these schists, and the northerly belt of steatite to lie in the schists, 

 similar to the relation southeast of the Laurentian, except that on 

 the S. E. there is a thin bed of spangled mica schists bearing very 

 strong resemblance to the mica schists of Cream Valley, between 

 the Laurentian and the serpentine. There is a connecting link 

 between the schists and the altered Primal of Rogers in peculiar 

 nodules, looking like pebbles, usually of a vitreous semi-transparent 

 colorless feldspar Avith perfect cleavage, apparently orthoclase. 

 While not uncommon they are not abundant in the rock. The 

 garnets are confined to the mica schists but much of the schist is not 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



garnetiferous. This is the same schist that is found with the limestone 

 northwest of West Chester (Cope's), as it may be traced almost 

 continuously along the southerly edge of the South (Chester) Valley 

 Hill. 



THE SERPENTINES. 



The serpentines of these areas may be conveniently arranged with 

 reference to the Laurentian axis above referred to. So arranged, ex- 

 cept the first, and in a general direction from northeast to southwest 

 they are as follows : 



A. The serpentine and steatite of the southeast slope of Chestnut 

 Hill (Laurentian) north of Easton, Pennsylvania. 



B. The great Radnor belt, lying on the northwest of the Lauren- 

 tian, including the belt north of West Chester, with which it 

 is apparently identical and almost continuous. 



C. The La Fayette belt, lying on the southeast of the Laurentian, 

 including the outcrops from northeast of the Schuylkill, south- 

 westward through Lower Merion, southerly Radnor, south- 

 easterly Newtown and the southwestwardly part of Marple 

 township, and the outcrop at Blue Hill. 



D. The outcrop, in the western part of Newtown township, and in 

 the easterly part of Edgemont, including Castle Rock. 



E. The outcrops at Willistown, Chester county, extending a short 

 distance into the northerly part of Edgemont, Delaware county. 



F. The soapstone quarry, or steatite belt extending from Chestnut 

 Hill, Philadelphia, to a point about three-quarters of a mile north- 

 east of Bryn Mawr nearly parallel to, and about a half mile 

 southeast of, the LaFayette belt (C). 



G. The northerly Radnor belt, nearly parallel to the northeasterly 

 part of the great Radnor belt (B) and about a thousand feet 

 northwest of it. 



H. The outcrop on the Wissahickon near the mouth of Cresheim 

 creek, southeast of Chestnut Hill, and certain small areas in 

 Marple and Upper Providence, southwest of the lai'ge Marple 

 outcrop. 



I. The numerous adjacent outcrops in Middletown Township west 

 of Media. 



K. Certain small areas south and southwest of the Media outcrop, 

 and the outcrops near Glen Mills on Chester creek. 



These serpentines have been studied by many geologists but the 

 conclusions reached have not been uniform. The following extracts 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



from the reports of the Second Geological Survey of Peunsjlvauia 

 will show some of these conclusions. I have added to each the 

 letter indicating the outcrop referred to in the list above given. 



C* p. 84 (B). " The southern edge of the Soutli Valley hill belt of talc mica 

 slates is defined upon the map, hy a cham of dots and stripes of two colors repre- 

 senting outcrops of terpentine and outcrops of crystalline limestone. 



Were these outcrops ranged in more than one line ^ the task of explaining their 

 appearance at the surface would be much easier. But a siiig/e line of them 

 necessarily places them either at the top or at llie bottom of the talc mica schist 

 formation ; Mr. Hall choosing the former, Mr. Rogers the latter alternative. 



The case is complicated by the fact that the outcrops along this one line are some- 

 times serpentine, sometimes limestone. It looks as if the serpentine might be a 

 subsequent modification of the limestone; or else that one and the same original 

 magnesian sediment was heavily charged with carbonate of lime in some places, 

 and was a non-calcareous silicious mud in others." 



C ■* p. 85 (B). " The subject is crowded with embarrassment; and all the more 

 seeing that the serpentine-limestone range along the south edge of the talc-mica 

 belt ought to hold some discoverable relation with other ranges of serpentine 

 crossing Delaware, Chester and Lancaster counties; as well as with the famous 

 serpentine outcrop between limestone and gneiss on the Delaware river, north of 

 Easton, in Northampton county." (A.) See Report D^, 1883. 



C* p. 85 (A). '' The fact that the Northampton county serpentine underlies the 

 Great Valley limestone formation in connection with Potsdam sandstone supports 

 Mr. Rogers' views in Chester county, and strongly opposes Mr. Hall's conjecture 

 that the Chester serpentine may be Upper Silurian. On the other hand the fine 

 serpentme outcrops on Lake Memphremagog, at the Canada Vermont line, are 

 clearly Upper Silurian, but they are far removed from any gneissic region. Mr. 

 Hall after examining the Easton serpentines, considered them altered calcareous 

 slates lying at the base of the limestone formation, over the Potsdam sandstone." 

 (F(?ot note.) 



C •* p. 87 (B). " It is evident that even a synclinal belt of serpentine 2,000 feet 

 wide, or even 4U0 feet wide, can mean nothing else than a great thickness of the 

 talc-mica schist formation metamorphosed more or less completely into serpentine. 

 And a good cause for such alteration is present in an extensive outburst of trap 

 close by ; and everybody familiar with the surface of Delaware and Chester counties 

 knows how almost invariably its trap and serpentine appear together. ^ This of it- 

 self eftectually divorces the serpentine outcrops of Chester county from the lime- 

 stones." 



C^ p. 26 (F). " The southern belt of serpentine extends from Chestnut Hill 

 tothe Delaware county line, crossing the Schuylkill river below Lafayette station. 

 It has not been proven to be a contmuous belt; and the color indicates the steatite 

 or serpentine where its existence is beyond dispute. This range or belt of ser- 

 pentine belongs, undoubtedly, to one horizon, although the deposits may be in len- 

 ticular masses. 



C^ p. 26 (C). "The northern belt of serpentine extends from a point a short 

 distance east of the Schuylkill river to the neighborhood of the Delaware county 

 line, north of Bryn Mawr. This belt seems to be a repetition of the southern belt, 

 being on the north side of a synclinal basin. 



East of the Schuylkill the extent of the outcrop is not definitely known. The 

 outcrops designated are the only ones positively known to exist. If there was no 

 faulting along the northern edge of the belt, between the Schuylkill and Chestnut 



1 In Radnor Township they are in two lines. T. D. R. 



2 My observations do not confirm this. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1883, p. 241. 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1890. 



Hill, the norlhern and southern bilts ought to join at the eastern end of the syn- 

 clinal basin ; but they apparently do not." 



C^ p. 15. " The serpentine and associated rocks lie in synclinal basins. This is 

 the rule in regard to ail serpentine areas in Delaware county and probably with 

 most of the serpentine in this district." 



C^ p. 57 (C & I). " The serpentine crosses the northern portions of the township 

 (Upper Providence) in two belts which indicate shallow synclinal basins and the 

 erosion between these areas or basins exposes the underlying mica schists." 



C^ p. 13. " The Delav\ are county deposits demonstrate the fact that the serpen- 

 tine areas are shallow synclinal basins, many of them saucer-shaped." 



C* p. 13 (G). " There is a small area of steatite close to Gulf creek and near a 

 limestone deposit. I think that there is no question that the steatite belongs to the 

 same horizon as the serpentine. The belt of serpentine" (B) "which makes its ap- 

 pearance in Radnor township belongs geologically to the serpentine belt which ex- 

 tends across the Schuylkill river and through Lower Merion township, Montgom- 

 ery county" (C), "and is a direct continuation of the belt which passes through the 

 corner of Tredyffrin township, Chester county, and passes north of West Chester" 



" The serpentines throughout the central portion of Delaware county" (I. K. L.) 

 " belong to the same horizon as those in Lower Merion Township, Montgomery 

 county" (C. F. G.). 



From the above facts it will readily be seen that all the serpentines through this 

 region belong to the same geological horizon." 



C 5 p. 14. " It is safe to assume that the serpentines are one of the most recent 

 deposits." 



C ^ p. 65 (K). Middletown Township. "There are numerous small areas of 

 steatite, anthophyllite, and actinolite, indicative of the serpentine horizon, through 

 the southern and southwestern portion of the township but these rocks seem to be 

 confined to very small areas lying upon the schists and gneisses which are exposed 

 in the escarpments." 



C ^ p. 64 (I). " Light feldspathic granite is formed in this township (Middletown) 

 associated with the serpentines." 

 •" The geological position of this granite is below the serpentines." 



The term " talc mica " is applied above to the hydromica schists 

 of the South (Chester) Valley Hill, sometimes called chlorite schists. 

 In fact they contain neither talc nor chlorite unless in very minute 

 quantity. 



Upon studying the relation of these serpentines to the adjacent 

 rocks the fact is at once apparent that most of these outcrops, and 

 those most extensive, occur along the margin of the Laurentian rocks, 

 and very close to that margin, while some of them, generally small 

 in area, seem with equal certainty to be some distance from the Lau- 

 rentian, and to have jio connection with it. 



To the former belong : 



A. Easton. B. Radnor — West Chester, C. LaFayette. D. 

 Southwest of Newtown. E. Willistown. 



And to the latter : 



F. Steatite. G. Northerly Radnor. H. Cresheim Creek. H. 

 Southeast of Marple schoolhouse. K. SouthAvest of Media, 



And probably I. "West of Media. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



The ^Media outcrop as delineated on Mr. Hall's map would be 

 nearly continuous on its northwestern edge with the Blue Hill out- 

 crop of the LaFayette belt and on its southwestern with the outcrops 

 southeast of the great Marple outcrop. 



This region is much covered with soil and it may be possible that 

 the two parallel belts exist Avith a schist area between. The re- 

 sults of a careful examination of this outcrop are given hereafter. 



The close connection of one series of these serpentine areas with 

 the margin of the Laurentian being apparent, it would seem that the 

 serpentine at Chestnut Hill on the Delaware, one mile north of 

 Easton should afford us a key, the exposures there being much 

 greater and better than any in Delaware or Chester County. 

 As to these in addition to the quotations above given the Second 

 Oeological Survey states as follows: 



D^ p. 252 (A). "Along the southern escarpment of Chestnut Hill steatite and 

 serpentine extend from the Delaware river to a point about one-half mile west of 

 Bu>hkill creek. The belt has a width of about four hundred feet. 



The serpentine and steatite have generally a greenish color; associated with the 

 steatite massive, coarse quartzose feldspathic rock (granulite) occurs. 



The rock is different in character from the feldspathic rocks of the gneissic belt 

 which form the mass of Chestnut Hill. The feldspathic rock associated with the 

 steatite belongs evidently to the steatite belt.'' 



D^ p. 256 (A). "On the southern slope of Chestnut Hill the Upper Primal 

 slates (hydro-mica slates) appear to have been altered into steatite and serpentine 

 (§251). No limonite occurs on the flanks of Chestnut Hill." 



D^ p. 253. " The steatite and serpentines of this belt appear to be equivalent to 

 the slates overlying the Potsdam sandstone. (Upper Primal Slates.) I see no e.\- 

 planation for the alteration of the hydro-mica slates of the Upper Primal into 

 steatite and serpentine in this locality." (Rogers, p. 94-5.) 



D^ p. 58- " Whether the serpentine and other magnesian minerals found at the 

 base of the formation along the south flank of Chestnut Hill, north of Easton, be- 

 long to this formation" (Chazy and Calciferous Limestone) " or not is still an open 

 question." 



Visits to the locality forced me to a conclusion differing 

 from the above. Passing up the west bank of the Delaware from 

 Easton the limestone appears for a distance of nearly a mile dipping 

 southeastwardly 60° to 80° then 200 feet are under cover, and then 

 a narrow bed of steatite appears. The southeast wall is not visible, 

 the northwest wall is Laurentian and were this the only exposure 

 there might be no reason to question the conclusion that the steatite 

 is an altered slate between the Laurentian and the limestone. 



East of this quarry may be seen Laurentian in place and the con- 

 tact with the talc schist may be seen. 



Immediately north of it is another quarry apparently within the 

 Laurentian, and here may be .seen masses of tons weight having all the 

 appearance of Laurentian but converted in ])art or in whole into tale. 




96 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



One mass, five or six feet long, was nearly pure talc schist at one 

 end, while at the other, much quartz remained and to the eye the 

 rock looked like unaltered Laurentian.^ 



Northwestward of this quarry all visible rocks are Laurentian for 

 about two hundred feet to a quarry of similar talcose i-ock quarried 

 on a slope up and into the hill somewhat over one hundred feet. 

 The quai-ry when visited had not been wrought for some time and 

 large masses of the south wall had fallen in. These masses were 

 Laurentian, the north wall was the same. Some of the fallen 

 masses showed a change from syenite, or more strictly granulite, into 

 steatite. 



Northwestward from this, the Laurentian was apparent for three 

 hundred to four hundred feet, where another and much larger out- 

 crop of steatite is quarried. The contacts here were not visible. 



Northwestward from this followed two hundred to three hundred 

 feet of Laurentian including one very prominent overhanging cliff 

 and then another exposure of steatite, in which was a considerable 

 quarry. Northwestward of this the Laurentian again appeared. 

 The dips were not clear but from what could be observed are not far 

 from vertical. The hill adjacent to these quarries probably exceeds 

 four hundred feet in height. It seems incredible that these four 

 outcrops are an overlying stratum in three successive compressed 

 synclinals. It is much more rational to conclude that they are in- 

 terbedded in the Laurentian. 



On the Bushkill, which cuts the same hill about one and a half 

 miles from the Delaware the outcrop is not so distinct but here also 

 the steatite and serpentine are between walls of Laurentian, and in 

 these hard unaltered Laurentian rocks may occasionally be found 

 masses of rock apparently changing into steatite and serpentine. 



Dr. Hunt in his INIineral Physiology and Physiography seems to 

 regard the change of gneiss into serpentine or steatite as almost 

 an absurdity, and before visiting this locality I should have 

 agreed with him, but here we certainly have Laurentian gneiss 

 changing into steatite, or steatite changing into Laurentian gneiss. 



Considering the Delaware, Chester and Montgomery county ser- 

 pentines in detail we find as follows : 



At the northeastern end of the Raclnor-West Chester belt 

 there is Laurentian on the strike line, and on both sides of the 

 belt, but. the exposure does not show the walls in place. About a 



1 Apiece of this is in the collection of the Academy. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPIIIA. 97 



•quarter of a mile northwest is garnetiferous mica schist in place, and 

 one hundred yards further northwest Potsdam sandstone. 



At the outcro]) northwest of Radnor station garnetiferous schist 

 and gneiss were disclosed in a well not over two hundred feet north 

 of the serpentine. In the strike line (southwest) and to the south- 

 cast Laurentian fragments abound. About five hundred feet north- 

 east of the northeast end of this exposure runs the Radnor and King 

 of Prussia road. On this, to the northwest of the line of strike is an 

 outcrop of Laurentian in place, while to the southeast and very close 

 to the strike line is a very hard porphyritic contorted mica schist 

 unlike any other outcrop of the region. 



Further west, between Radnor and AVest Chester, the serpentine 

 is much concealed, but there are some outcrops of interest. 



The most important of these lie a little less than a mile south of 

 the Pennsylvania Railroad, near Paoli, Green Tree and Malvern sta- 

 tions and among the headwaters of Crum creek. Southeast the 

 Laurentian is apparent, here and there in conspicuous outcrops. On 

 the road leading to Malvern, we find, going north northwest, as 

 follows : 



feet. 

 Laurentian, 

 Low ground, . . . . . . . . .100 



Serpentine, ......... 250 



Low, .......... 50 



Garnet staurolite schist, ....... 100 



Low, 500 



Garnet staurolite schist, 100 



Trap, 50 



Garnet staurolite schist, ....... 200 



Serpentine, . . . . 400 



Low, 300 



Garnet staurolite schist, ....... 200 



Concealed, 300 



Hydromica schist of the South (Chester) Valley Hill, . 5000 



Showing here two distinct outcrops of the serpentine, with mica 

 schist between them, and beyond the northernmost. 



About half a mile east of the ]Malvern road is a nearly parallel road 

 leading to Green Tree. On a road connecting the two, just south 

 of the serpentine, Laurentian is conspicuous. Going N. X. W. on the 

 Green Tree road, the belt is again divided, the southerly outcrop being 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



close to wliere the two branches of Crum creek unite, the northerly just 

 below where the road turns abruptly E. N. E., and exposed more con- 

 spicuously at a quarry an eighth of a mile W. S. W. of the bend. 

 Here white quartz is abundant, much like that which abounds at cer- 

 tain j)laces in the mica schists southeast of the LaFayette belt, and 

 the garnetiferous schist is visible in the E. N. E. part of the road. 

 About a quarter of a mile east of the Green Tree road is another 

 road leading also to Green Tree and joining the former road where 

 the east northeast direction changes to north northwest. Two 

 small branches of Crum creek cross this road, and unite just below 

 it. Southeast of the east one there is serpentine which extends about 

 sixty feet beyond the northwest side of the creek. The ground is 

 then low to the west branch, beyond which is an area of serpentine 

 probably eight hundred feet wide, but it appears to end very abrupt- 

 ly, for on the line of strike the road mentioned just previously to this 

 is not over six hundred feet distant, and in^it mica schists appear, 

 while the serpentine is to be found only by careful search. On the 

 strike line northeasterly (N. 35° to 52° E. wherever it can be ob- 

 served) the serpentine outcrops are extensive but their margins are 

 all concealed. 



Immediately southeast of the serpentine just mentioned southeast 

 of the east branch of Crum creek, a road runs to Paoli, in a direc- 

 tion nearly northeast. Going northeast we find serpentine followed 

 by fragments of loose trap, fragments of garnet-staurolite schist, then 

 serpentine, trap, serpentine, trap, garnetiferous schist and finally 

 hydromica schist. 



While it is impossible to fix the boundaries of these rocks with 

 any accuracy, there can be no doubt that we have here an area 

 of the garnetiferous schists included within serpentine areas and bor- 

 tlering the northernmost on the north. This schist appears nowhere 

 on the south unless at one point in the road last mentioned southeast 

 of the east branch of Crum creek, but the outcrop is merely of loose 

 rock and garnets in very small quantity and may not be actually in 

 place. 



All observed dips in the serpentine were northwest 60° to 90°, 

 but few dips seemed trustworthy and in the schists no exposures 

 whatever giving trustworthy dips were found. 



Within a quarter of a mile of the northwesterly margin of the ser- 

 pentine and garnetiferous schists are the hydromica schists of the 

 South (Chester) Valley Hill very readily distinguishable from the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



garnetiferous schists, and throughout the whole distance Laurentiau 

 rocks are found ch)se on the southeast. 



North and northwest of West Chester Laurentian also appears 

 close to the serpentine on the southeast side, while in many places on 

 the northwest side fragments of garnetiferous schists and loose garnets 

 are found in the soil with occasionally staurolite. 



About a mile and a quarter N. N. AV. of West Chester, the bold 

 serpentine ridge ends abruptly, the mica schist fragments appearing 

 in its line of strike, here S. 45° W. with an unusually uniform dip 

 in the serpentine about 45° S. E., or toward the Laurentiau. The 

 Laurentiau is not sufficiently exposed to give its dip, but the strike 

 seems to be about the same as that of the serpentine. 



Southwest of this is a small outcrop of serpentine, a little south 

 of the line of the strike of the former, and beyond are outcrops 

 nearly five hundred feet apart to the northwest and southeast of a 

 stream and low ground, evidencing a wide outcrop or two narrow 

 ones. Northwest of the serpentine is garnetiferous schist. 



Southwest of this outcrop is a ridge geographically the continua- 

 tion of the serpentine ridge, but apparently of Laurentian rocks, 

 not visible in place, but abundant as loose masses, but on the road 

 southeast of this hill garnetiferous schists with staurolite are exposed. 

 The great mass of the Laurentian lies still further southeast, so that 

 if the ridge is Laurentian, we have an included valley of the 

 schists. No serpentine is visible. The ridge ends at the road from 

 West Chester to Downingtown. At the time of my visit an 

 alteration of this road had caused a cut to be made making a cross- 

 section of the end of this ridge, showing to the southeastward 

 Laurentian, dipping northwestwardly about 22,° overlying which 

 was a bed of slaty steatite, or impure talc schist, and overlying this, 

 mica schist and quartz, much contorted, the lowest part dipping 

 conformably with the steatite and Laurentian, the upper so contorted 

 that no structure was apparent. To the northwestward the Laurentian 

 appeared dipping southeastwardly about 30° the middle being 

 occupied by the mica schists but no steatite or talc appearing to the 

 north. The exposure is probably two hundred feet wide. The rock 

 which I have termed Laurentian at this exposure I believe to be 

 such, but it is not so characteristic as to be beyond doubt. 



Further southwest on the line of this hill, after 400 to 500 feet of 

 low ground, is another hill which contains two outcrops of limestone 

 (Caleb Cope's). The southerly one has been excavated some two 




100 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l'S90. 



hundred feet into the hill, exhibiting a stratum of crystalline lime- 

 stone probably 60 feet wide bounded on the northwest by garnetiferous 

 mica schists, with feldspar nodules, most closely resembling those of 

 Cream Valley, Radnor. On the southeast is a rock closely resem- 

 bling the Laurentian, containing interbedded limestone. This is not 

 far north of undoubted Laurentian, and is either that rock, or as 

 Dr. Frazer has suggested,^ a more recent formation made up of the 

 fragments of the underlying rocks. In this quarry a satisfactory 

 exposure gave strike N. 40° E. dip 55° S. E. Northwest of this outcrop 

 are 100 feet of the schists, and then a very small exposure of sac- 

 charoidal limestone, apparently an anticlinal in the schists. The 

 steatite outcrop is 450 feet N. 50° E. from the southerly limestone, 

 K. 65° E. from the northerly. 



A short distance northwest are the hydromica schists of the 

 South (Chester) Valley Hill. 



Dr. Frazer^ thinks it probable that the serpentine of this belt is a 

 metasomatized portion of the hydromica schists with which he regards 

 it as lying in contact ; but towards the northeast we find between the 

 hydromica and this serpentine, limestone, Rogers' altered primal, 

 garnetiferous micaschists,Potsdam sandstone and steatite, the garnet- 

 iferous mica schists much more nearly continuous (apparently) than 

 the serpentine. North of Radnor station fully a thousand feet of the 

 above rocks intervene between the hydromica schists and the serpen- 

 tine. I have nowhere seen the hydromica schists of the South Valley 

 Hill in contact with the serj^entine. 



The LaFayette Belt. 

 On the southeast side of the Laurentian anticlinal is the LaFay- 

 ette belt, but along nearly its whole course there intervenes visibly 

 between it and the Laurentian a schistose rock, including crystals 

 of mica like the feldspar crystals in a porphyry and more rarely 

 visible a thin bedded gneiss resembling the altered primal of Rogers 

 so largely exposed on the northwest side of the anticlinal. The 

 schist is very uniform and persistent but it is nowhere well exposed. 

 At times, as on the southwest bank of Meadow Brook north of 



1 C 4 p. 294. 



2 " These resulis seem to lend a high degree of probability to the theory that at 

 least this beh (Ralnor-West Chester) is a metasomatized product of a layer or 

 layers of the hydromica schists in contact with which it lies and with whicii its rela- 

 tions are abundantly made out by very different processes of comparison, viz., 

 stratigraphically, geographically and chemically." Trans. Am. Inst. M. E. Troy 

 Meeting, Oct. 1883. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 101 



Roberts' road a mile and a half south of the old Lancaster road, and 

 also on the Coopertown road (or Roberts' road as they run together) 

 west of the bridge over Darby creek, it becomes a coarse granite or 

 porphyry, containing, however, but little quartz. Some portions 

 exactly resemble part of the garnetiferous schist, northwest of the 

 Lauren tian, but I have nowhere observed garnets in it, though a 

 loose fragment of rock found on the Roberts road near MeadoAV 

 brook contained staurolite. 



The rock in contact with the LaFayette belt on its southeastern 

 margin is rarely visible at the point of contact. It may however 

 be seen at Rose's quarry, and also on the Roberts road east of 

 Meadow brook. It is a fine-grained mica schist, not contorted, not 

 wood-like in its fracture, like that near the steatite belt to the south- 

 east. It occasionally contains garnets but it is not distinctly 

 garnetiferous like that further southeast. 



It contains strata of schistose hornblende rock which, at one 

 locality 200 feet north of the West Chester and Philadelphia road, a 

 mile east of Newtown Square near the south line of Newtown 

 Township, appears to be changing into serpentine and these horn- 

 blende rocks are quite persistent, being found as far southwest as the 

 Willistown outcrop. 



The best exposure of this belt is at Rose's quarry near the Schuyl- 

 kill. Here the dip is 45° to 55° S. 30° to 40° E^ and beds of ser- 

 pentine above may be traced into enstatite below. Southwest are 

 large masses of enstatite in great quantity. This is also the case at 

 the outcrops on Darby creek and in Marple. Chromite was mined 

 near Darby creek in this belt. (Moro Phillips Chrome Mine.) 



The LaFayette belt may be traced by distinct outcrops from a 

 point about half a mile north of the Schuylkill to Rosemont station 

 P. R. R. Southwest of Rosemont, the outcrops are more indis- 

 tinct but careful search will disclose them between the old Lancaster 

 road and the Radnor and Chester road ; on this road a wide outcrop 

 suddenly appears and continues (except at Darby creek where some 

 low ground intervenes, beneath which it is doubtless concealed) to the 

 Philadelphia and West Chester road about a mile and a half east of 

 Newtown Square. Beyond this for a short distance it becomes in- 

 conspicuous or absent, but the ground is level and there are no good 

 exposures of any kind. About half a mile further southwest it is 

 again exposed as the great ]\Iarple outcrop, about a mile and a half 

 northwest of Palmer's Mill on Crum creek. 




102 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Southwest of this, the next exposure of the serpentine which 

 I have seen is at Blue Hill between Crum and Ridley creeks. 

 This outcrop lies near Sycamore or Bishop's Mills on Ridley creek 

 and nearly in the strike of the LaFayette belt. The Marple outcrop 

 lies south of this line, probably indicating a curve in the Laui'entian, 

 but the adjacent rocks on the northwest are not visible in place at 

 Marple. The elevation of the region immediately northwest is in- 

 dicative of the Laurentian. At Blue Hill the Laurentian again 

 seems to almost surround the serpentine. Just north of the school- 

 house the Laurentian appears in place with a strike nearly south, 

 immediately west of abundant fragments of honeycomb quartz per- 

 haps indicative of underlying serpentine, and not over 300 feet north- 

 west of abundant serpentine in place. Further northeast the Lau- 

 rentian occupies the entire hill, which here is quite elevated, with 

 steep slopes on the northwest and southeast, and a more gentle one 

 on the northeast to Crum creek. 



In the serpentine where it has been quarried on the Providence 

 road opposite the Blue Hill school-house is a small quantity of gran- 

 ulite appai'ently a dyke. On the road along the creek south of the 

 serpentine a decomposed granite or granulite appears, the indications 

 being quantities of small masses of crystalline feldspar. 



The locality southwest of Newtown Square is not well exposed. 

 Laurentian, unaltered, may be seen at the fork of the roads three- 

 quarters of a mile west of Newtown Square and its strike would 

 bring it northwest of, but very close to, the serpentine. The Castle 

 Rock enstatite seems to be continuous with this serpentine, separated 

 from it only by Crum creek and the immediately adjacent low 

 ground. This locality is not far from the Willistown exposure next 

 described and is probably identical with it. 



The Willistown outcrop, like that northeast of Radnor station, 

 appears to be largely within the Laurentian, which extends from 

 West Chester eastward as close to it as any rock can be observed. 

 To the northward Laurentian is everywhere. Following the serpen- 

 tine table land eastward, the serpentine fragments in the soil sud- 

 denly, within less than 100 feet, are replaced b}^ hornblende frag- 

 ments and, a short distance beyond, Laurentian rocks form a steep 

 bluff. This bluff' rises precipitously from the north branch of Ridley 

 creek on the east, and from the Philadelphia and West Chester road 

 on the north. The Laurentian dips S. 25° E. 65°. The rocks are 

 partially exposed along the road and going west are as follows: 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



First. Liiurentian. 



Second. A porpliyritic gneiss resembling Rogers' altered primal 

 as found northwest of the Laurentian. 



Third. A micaceous schist in very small quantity. 



Fourth. Hornblende fragments. 



Fifth. Serpentine. 



The serpentine extends along the road several hundred feet. 

 North of it is Laurentian, but no contacts are visible. About a 

 quarter of a mile west of it appears the same rock spoken of as resem- 

 bling Rogers' altered primal, striking, like the former, N. 65° to 70° 

 E. but the dip not certain. Beyond this west to West Chester and 

 north for several miles the Avhole region is Laurentian. 



It will be seen that all these outcrops of serpentine are close to 

 the margin of the Laurentian, two of them at least within its mar- 

 gin, though there is no sufficient evidence to prove whether they are 

 of that age or more recent. 



INIr. Hall, as before stated, thinks it safe to assume that they are 

 among the most recent deposits, but the section of the Radnor belt 

 shows going northward from the Lau rentian axis several rocks between 

 the serpentine and the Potsdam sandstone, seeming to indicate that 

 here at least the serpentine is the oldest except the Laurentian, and 

 that the steatite is more recent than the serpentine but below the 

 Potsdam, unless in a synclinal. 



On the southeast side of the Laurentian the existence of the Pots- 

 dam is not certain where the serpentine occurs, but as above stated 

 it does occur at Waverly Heights in Montgomery county, between 

 the Laurentian on thenorthwestand the schists on the southeast and 

 there are in Radnor and Lower Merion certain rocks in the same rela- 

 tive position Avhich closely resemble Potsdam. If this is Potsdam 

 then the serpentine is again between the Laurentian and the Pots- 

 dam, but the very positionof the serpentine, so very close to the Lau- 

 rentian, would indicate that it w'as an older rock than the mica schists 

 to the southward. 



We come now to the consideration of the outcrops which are not 

 near the Laurentian. Of these perhaps the most important are the 

 steatite belts N. W. & S. E. of the Radnor and LaFayette serpen- 

 tines. 



THE NORTHERLY RADNOR BELT. 



Outcrops of this belt lie nearly parallel to the great Radnor belt 

 but extend a mile further northeast and all lie within a lineal dis- 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



tance of about two miles, ending about three-quarters of a mile south- 

 west of the northeast end of the Radnor belt, bearing precisely the 

 same relation to it and to the Laurentian axis as does the steatite of 

 the better known Soapstone quarry belt to the LaFayette belt. 

 The exposure of the northerly belt is poor, but it is of no little 

 interest on account of its similarity to the soapstone quarry belt and 

 to the fact that along its line occur garnetiferous schists followed by 

 Potsdam sandstone and limestone. A trench dug for water pipe on 

 the property of Judge Hare about a mile northeast of Radnor Sta- 

 tion afforded a tolerable section. The trench was about N. 75° W. 

 while the strike of the belt is probably N. 60° E. ; the distances given 

 are corrected so as to approximate the dip line. 



Foot of hill E. Mica schist, decomposing steatite with numerous 

 40 feet cavities filled with ferric oxide exactly resembling 



that of the soapstone quarry below LaFayette 

 w^here the ochre is due to weathering of Breun- 

 nerite. With this was chlorite schist. 

 90 feet Slaty serpentine. 



200 " Hard serpentine. 



300 " Talc schists and hard serpentine. 



350 " Rogers' altered primal. 



375 " Mica schist. 



425 " W. Rogers' altered primal. 

 A half mile southeast of the LaFayette belt, lies the steatite belt,, 

 in which quarries for soapstone have been wrought for over a cent- 

 ury. The LaFayette belt appears to end northeastwardly in a small 

 valley of an afHuent of the Schuylkill, not far from the river. 

 The steatite belt however extends further northeast, and crosses the 

 Wissahickon near Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, ending in the schists 

 of Chestnut Hill, near Thorp's lane a short distance southwest of the 

 turnpike. 



This is another, but probably purely accidental resemblance be- 

 tween the two belts, both being much shorter, but beginning much 

 more northeastwardly than the corresponding parallel serpentine 

 belt. 



The characteristic of this belt is a steatite including masses of 

 very hard black serpentine. These have resisted erosion and some- 

 times appear along the outcrop like huge boulders, some of them, 

 near the soapstone quarry, being separate and of many tons' weight. 

 Some of the black masses are pseudomorphs after staurolite. ^ 

 1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Nov. 21st, 1871. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



Prof. Rogers, whose plutonic views as to most of the serpentines 

 are well known, recognized this belt to be an altered schist though 

 he regarded it as " metamorphosed by infusion of magnesian matter 

 from the dyke of intrusive serpentine which everywhere adjoins it."^ 

 But it is this " intrusive serpentine " which contains the pseudomorphs 

 after staurolite. 



This belt has afforded more minerals than any other serpentine 

 of the region, except, probably, Wood's mine in Lancaster county, 

 perhaps because of the more extensive quarrying in it. Dolomite is 

 abundant, sometimes in peculiar crystallizations. The following also 

 have been found, Breunnerite in fine crystals, chalcopyrite, bornite, 

 magnetite, tremolite, staurolite, actinolite, chalcanthite, epsomite, 

 Millerite, apatite and Hallite. Southwestward of the Schuylkill it 

 appears at numerous outcrops ending on the Black Rock road about 

 a mile northeast of Bryn Mawr. 



The Cresheim Creek Outcrop, and Small 

 Outcrops near Media. 



Near the mouth of Cresheim creek on the Wissahickon in Fair- 

 mount Park, Philadelphia, are two small outcrops of actinolite and 

 antholite. The southeastei'ly, about 700 feet S. E. of the mouth of 

 Cresheim creek, is well known. It lies about two miles south- 

 east of the steatite belt, and is wholly within the schists. Mr. Hall 

 mentions a similar outcrop at the Flushing school-house in Bucks 

 county, and excepts these from his generalizations as to the serpen- 

 tines. The outcrop is immediately in the Manayunk schists, is quite 

 insignificant and appears to be a local alteration of hornblende-like 

 rock. About 500 feet N. W. of Cresheim creek is another similar out- 

 crop much better exposed, which, I believe, has never been described. 

 It appears undoubtedly interstratified in the schists with a dip of 

 about 45° N. 40° W. The schists can be seen almost in contact 

 (within one foot) and the dip and strike of the antholite and of the 

 schists seem the same. The schists contain garnets and staurolite. It 

 is with these I should class all or nearly all the outcrops southwest 

 of the Marple Barren Hill school-house and also those southwest of' 

 Media, including a part if not the whole of the great outcrop west, 

 of INIedia. 



In Mr. Hall's map of Delaware county published in C^ are 

 shown a number of outcrops of serpentine extending southwestward 

 1 Geol. of Pa., Vol. 1, p. 71. 




106 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



from the large INIarple outcrop south of Newtown Square, most of 

 them in two lines the continuation of which marks the northwestern 

 and southeastern margins of the many adjacent outcroj^s west of 

 INIedia. He also maps several south and southwest of the latter. It 

 is not an easy task to map these serpentine areas, their margins are 

 ill defined, and generally covered with soil. While, therefore, their 

 general location may be correct, in some minor points they do 

 not agree with my observations, but accurate mapping would require 

 a topographical survey and numerous excavations. 



I have visited most but not all of the minor outcrops. At 

 some I was unable to find the serpentine, but wherever found it was 

 apparently a small bed of hornblende-like rock interst ratified in the 

 Manayunk gneisses, altered more or less into antholite, steatite, ser- 

 pentine and honeycomb quartz, except the outcrop on the east bank 

 of Ridley creek northwest of Media where there is unaltered ensta- 

 tite, also apparently a narrow interstratified bed. 



On Mr. Hall's ma}) a small area of serpentine is shown as almost 

 a continuation of the great Marple outcrop and both are represented 

 to be in the schists. I believe the Laurentian to bound the 

 Marple serpentine on the northwest as it certainly does a short 

 distance to the northward. Between the two areas intervene Chest- 

 nut Hill schists with the chai-acteristic quartz in large quantity. 

 The rocks of the small area are steatite and antholite and very un- 

 like the enstatite and hard black serpentine of the large outcrop. 



At this locality and southwestward many of the outcrops of ser- 

 pentine are accompanied by outcrops of?, granite, or granulite, often 

 coarse, sometimes fine grained, containing orthoclase, oligoclase, 

 quartz and mica, the latter in small quantity but at times in large 

 ■crystals, the quartz also in small quantity, the mica being rarely dis- 

 seminated. This will be more fully described in the consideration of 

 the Media outcrop. 



The Larue Outcrop West of Media. 



This outcrop, or rather series of outcro]is, occurs in or on the 

 borders of an elevated table-land, occupying the greater part 

 of the area lying between Ridley and Chester creeks, extending 

 southwardly a little south of the railroad from Philadelphia via 

 Media to West Chester. On the northwest, the road from Lenni, 

 through Lima, to Sycamore Mills is on it, but near the edge, while 

 on the north. Dismal Run marks the boundary and on the east. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIEN'CES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



Ridley creek. Within this area are several outcrops of serpentine, 

 and scattered over a large part of its surface, amidst the soil, is the 

 honeycomb quartz which usually results from the alteration of 

 serpentine. This has given rise to the impression that the under- 

 lying concealed rock is serpentine. On Mr. Hall's map certain 

 areas are marked serpentine without question, and between the 

 areas so marked the map is lined green. ]\ly observations are 

 that in much of the area colored serpentine, while that rock may 

 exist, it constitutes but a small proportion of the area, while in much 

 of the lined portion serpentine does not exist. It is true that it is 

 impossible to define the areas of serpentine and other rocks in the 

 table-laud. The covering of soil is deep and the exposures very few, 

 but there are some that throw much light on the structure. The 

 region lies directly in the strike of the schists so well exposed near 

 Media and north of it and resembling the ^lanayunk series. INIr. 

 Hall, as already stated, believes these schists to lie at low angles and 

 to overlie the harder gneisses which appear over a large area further 

 west, but in the cut at INIedia, which Mr. Hall quotes in support of 

 this, ^ the alternations of differing materials certainly dip about 70° 

 to 90° southeast and I think this steep dip is, the rule, with very few 

 exceptions. 



The only section through this table land, and that by no means 

 satisfactory, is afforded by the excavations of the railroad, which 

 crossing the valley of Ridley creek by a very high bridge, passes 

 southwestward to Chester creek at a grade usually below the level 

 of the adjacent land. Decomposition of the rocks has, however, gone 

 on to so great a depth, that undecomposed rock is rare, and the walls 

 of the cuts, in many places are little more than loam, but there has 

 evidently been no transporting of material, the rock having decom- 

 posed in place. Usually the falling down of the upper part of the slopes 

 obscures the lower, but the excessive and violent rains of the past 

 season have washed the sides so that the rocks are very clearly 

 exposed, the stratification is clear and distinct, and the sections are 

 as convincing as if of hard rock. Indeed the opportunity for observa- 

 tion is exceptionally good. 



On the west bank of Ridley creek the railroad enters a cut about a 

 hundred yards from the bridge. This is in schists much like those on 

 the east with a strike about X. 40° E. and a nearly vertical dip. The 

 strike and the railroad tangent are here nearly parallel, the railroad 



1 Vol. C 5 p. 59. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890, 



bearing 5° or 10° north of the strike going westwardly. Here may be 

 seen some very hard compact gneiss, both granitic and hornblendic, 

 interstratified in the schists. About a mile from Ridley creek, a 

 short distance west of Elwyn station, the schists are very feldspathic 

 and dip 70° to 90° southeast. West of this is a deep cut, the schists 

 continuing very feldspathic with coarse crystalline feldspar in thin 

 beds, all much decomposed, some hornblendic gneiss and some 

 included quartz, and some massive beds of a granite almost granulite, 

 the strike and the dip about the same. Suddenly, on the north side 

 of the cut, honey-comb quartz appears, followed by serpentine, and 

 this by a coarse hornblende rock, containing grains of a yellow 

 mineral, probably chrysolite, and this is followed by serpentine to 

 the end of the cut probably 200 feet. 



On the south side of the railroad the feldspathic schist continues 

 without a trace of serpentine, but the hornblendic rock does appear 

 on the south side. This will be referred to hereafter. 



AVest of this, the ground is lower, and there are no exposures for 

 about a quarter of a mile to Chrome Run, which rises on the extreme 

 northern edge of the table-land, and flows nearly south into Chester 

 creek. On the east side of the creek are large serpentine areas, but 

 there is evidence too of much granulite, here being the celebrated 

 Black Horse moonstone locality. Along the creek the ground is 

 low, but near where the State road crosses it, its bed is a granulite 

 excessively jointed, hence easily quarried and making a good build- 

 ing stone. The dip and strike are not clear. On the west side of 

 the creek at the railroad, much earth has been removed to construct 

 embankments and here the granulite is in large quantity but poorly 

 exposed. 



On the east side of the creek a similar removal of earth lays bare 

 a ridge of diorite, part of it very compact, part schistose, with the 

 unusual strike N. 30° to 40° W. and a dip of 70° to 90° northeast. 

 This is cut off by large masses of granulite striking X. 20° E., some of 

 it fine grained, some containing large crystals of feldspar, in fact al- 

 most a porphyry. The contact is concealed, but the diorite is visi- 

 ble within a foot of the granulite. It would seem difficult to ex- 

 plain this except by regarding the granulite as intrusive, and per- 

 haps the diorite here is similar to that of the hornblende rocks in the 

 cut to the east before mentioned. 



The close correspondence of these occurrences with the observations 

 of the Canadian geologists as to the Black Lake serpentines here- 

 after mentioned is apparent. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



Between Chrome Run and the next creek west is a cut, in the 

 easterly part of which serpentine and honeycomb quartz occur. To- 

 w-ard the middle of the cut, decomposed granulite appears, embed- 

 ded in which are masses, sometimes pebble like, sometimes bedded, 

 of actinolite, all much decomposed. Following this the granulite 

 is distinctly stratified, mostly regular, some of it contorted, striking 

 S. 20° E. nearly vertical, looking much like that west of Elwyn. It 

 contains some hornblende and actinolite. The valley of the creek 

 beyond is quite deep, with steep banks, and the floor of the valley 

 rises very rapidly northward. On the hill between Chrome run 

 and this creek, near the railroad, honeycomb quartz is visible in the 

 soil, but, going northward, schists soon appear in quantity, succeeded 

 by masses of granulite ; and this, near the source of the creek, and 

 near the point at which the Lima road forks to Lenni od the west 

 and to Glen Riddle on the east, gives place to honeycomb quartz. 

 None of these rocks seem absolutely in place, but their quantity 

 is so great, that their existence under the surface cannot be doubted. 



Returning to the railroad, the next cut is that in which Glen 

 Riddle station is located. In this the chief rock is the decomposing 

 granulite with serpentine and honeycomb quartz, the serpentine and 

 granulite so intermixed and so decomposed, that it requires close 

 examination to distinguish them, but the serpentine can be seen in 

 unquestionable granulite, and the granulite in unquestionable ser- 

 pentine-like rocks. In this cut there appears to be a gentle westerly 

 dip and the propoi'tion of the granulite to the serpentine seems to 

 increase as the depth increases. 



The cut west of that at Glen Riddle and east of Lenni, the lo- 

 cality of vermiculite, actinolite, yellow quartz, Delawarite and 

 Lennilite, shows the granulite much more massive and less decom- 

 posed than any of the preceding. This cut is a curve on the 

 southerly slope of a steep hill, so that the south bank is compara- 

 tively low, that on the north rising steeply probably 100 feet. The 

 top of the hill is honey-comb quartz, then there is a terrace, probably 

 made in the grading of the railroad, apparently almost entirely 

 granulite, and then on the slope to the railroad is granulite, some of 

 it with crystals of feldspar an inch or more in size (Delawarite, 

 Lennilite), some very fine grained, much of it very heavy bedded 

 and compact, very hard and entirely undecomposed, and some of 

 it soft and decomposed. 




1 10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



In this occurs vermiculite, or Hallite, and actinolite, apparently 

 the result of the decomposition of an interbedded mineral, some- 

 times in lenticular masses, sometimes in narrow beds, and in some 

 places looking as if the grauulite itself had changed into serpentine. 

 One measurement gave strike N. 45° E. dip 65° N. W. The only- 

 certain thing, however, was a general northeast and southwest strike. 

 On the north side of the cut there was much more granulite than 

 serpentine, on the south side more serpentine than granulite, but both 

 were intermixed on the two sides. 



In the road which skirts this hill, south of and generally lower 

 than the railroad, the same intermixture of granulite and serpentine 

 may be seen, the granulite greatly in excess. 



In the hill northeast of the cut is an abandoned serpentine quarry. 

 Here also the granulite occurs in the serpentine, looking more like 

 a dyke than elsewhere except on Chrome Run, and at Crump's 

 quarry hereafter mentioned, but the exposure does not decide the 

 question. 



West of the Lenni cut and near Lenni station, the ]\Ianayunk 

 rocks, or rocks very like them, appear in a large quarry, the rock 

 here being a schistose gneiss. 



From Lenni and Glen Riddle roads lead northwestward and join- 

 ing, run through Lima to Sycamore Mills, on Ridley creek, near 

 Blue Hill. 



On the Lenni road the gneisses appear, followed by loose masses 

 of the honeycomb quartz ; on the Glen Riddle road, the quartz only 

 is seen at the surface, but where the underlying rock is exposed by 

 washes in the road gutters, it is seen to be gneissic or schistose and 

 not serpentine or quartz. The honeycomb quartz is visible along 

 this road nearly to Sycamore Mills, in other words from near Ches- 

 ter creek, to near Ridley creek, but not immediately on either. 

 About a mile west of Sycamore Mills is a road close to the Middle- 

 town public school, or the Barren Hill school-house. It covers a 

 considerable area visible on the south bank of Dismal Run, but on 

 the Lenni road it is not visible, the surface being a loam with inter- 

 mixed honeycomb quartz. 



On the Lima-Lenni road, northeast of the school-house, on the de- 

 scent from the table land to Ridley creek, near the mouth of Dismal 

 Run, the granulite suddenly appears in great quantity and evi- 

 dently in place. Northwestward of Dismal Run the Laurentian with 

 all its characters occui's in abundance, forming a steep ridge probably 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF riIILADP:LPIIIA. Ill 



200 feet liigli divided by a branch of Dismal Run into a smaller hill 

 on the northeast known as Roundtop and a much longer one to- 

 ward the southwest called Poplar Hill. Dismal Run seems to be 

 the boundary between the Laurentian on the northwest and the ser- 

 pentine on the southeast, flowing in a remarkably straight course 

 about N. 60° E. The road mentioned as crossing the Lenni- 

 Lima road at the Barren Hill schoolhouse shows the serpentine in 

 quantity with its characteristic vegetation immediately southeast of 

 Dismal Run, but as soon as the higher land is reached the serpen- 

 tine disappears, and honeycomb quartz is found in the soil in greater 

 or less quantity, but no rocks in place. 



To avoid confusion I should state that there is another " Barren 

 Hill Schoolhouse " in Marple about a mile and a half north of 

 Palmer's Mills. The authorities, with characteristic economy, seem 

 to have selected the serpentine outcrops in this vicinity as sites for 

 Public Schools, perhaps upon the theory that knowledge would grow 

 where nothing else would, but a worse education for the young can 

 hardly be found than the surroundings of the three contiguous 

 schools of INIarple, Blue Hill, and Middletown, They are a disgrace 

 to our civilization. 



Eastward along this road, about a quarter of a mile from the 

 schoolhouse, on an aflluent of Ridley creek, occur great quantities of 

 the honeycomb quartz, completely covering the ground, but even 

 here the vegetation is not characteristic of the serpentine. About 

 a quarter of a mile further east a steep bluff on the north of the 

 road discloses the schists and in them a large mass of kaolinized 

 feldspar, whether a bed or dyke is not clear. A short distance 

 beyond, the road runs into the road from Lima to the Rose Tree Inn, 

 and on this also the schists are seen. This brings us about a half 

 mile northwest of our point of departure at Ridley creek and the 

 railroad. 



Examining now the more central part of the area we find on the 

 State road, east of the road from Lima to Glen Riddle, loose honey- 

 comb quartz, but at the foot of the hill, where Chrome Run crosses, 

 two quarries in granulite. This rock lies in beds from a few inches 

 to a foot in thickness, rarely more, and it is excessively jointed. 



East of this is more honey-comb quartz and a little serpentine. 

 On the same road east of the Black Horse tavern there is more 

 quartz. About a quarter of a mile east of the tavern a small stream 

 flows northeastwardly into Ridley creek. Its valley and the next 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



valley to the north, form the locality kno\yu as Mineral Hill. 

 Leaving this for a moment, we find along the road indications of ser- 

 pentine and about a quarter of a mile west of Ridley creek large and 

 abundant masses of enstatite, east of which are again the schists. 



The Mineral Hill locality consists chiefly of the bed of the stream 

 above mentioned which rises south of the State road and flows 

 northeastwardly into Ridley creek. The descent is rapid and the 

 stream has cut quite a gorge. Its bed is full of the fragments of the 

 rocks, but the exposures of the rocks in place are not satisfactory. 

 Serpentine, actinolite and granulite, the latter containing the moon- 

 stone and sunstone which have made the hill famous, are abundant. 

 At one place the serpentine could be seen apparently interbedded 

 in decomposed granulite. 



A section on this creek where there had been a deep wash shows 

 very much the same as in the cuts near Glen Riddle, viz. : 

 N. W. 1. Granulite decomposed into fragments but the 

 fragments hard and seemingly unaltered grow- 

 ing harder southeastward, strike N. 40° E. dip 

 northwest irregular but steep. 



2. Hallite (?). 



3. Honeycomb quartz. 



4. Granulite like (1). 



5. Hallite (?). 



6. Granulite decomposed. 



7. Granulite decomposed including lenticular mas- 

 ses of actinolite decomposed and in same stratum 

 7 feet N. W. serpentine and quartz. 



8. Hallite (?). 



9. Granulite including lenticular actinolite. 



10. Soft green. (Serpentine ? Chlorite ?). 



11. White soft rock including curved crystals (of 

 serpentine ?). 



12. Soft serpentine. 



13. Hard serpentine. 



14. Concealed. 

 S. E. 15. Large masses of undecomposed granulite. 



About a quarter of a mile above the mouth of the stream is 

 Crump's quarry. Here the serpentine, rather light in color and 

 comparatively soft has been quarried, largely by machinery, toothed 

 wheels rotated by steam ])ower cutting deep grooves in the rock 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



and forming slabs. The numerous joints in the rock cause many of 

 these to break up into i)ieces too small for use, and the quarry 

 has not been wrought for some time. The whole quarry is in 

 serpentine, but the north wall is granulite. At the contact there 

 is a stratum about one foot thick of soft micaceous rock like Hallite 

 or JefFerisite. In the granulite are lenticular masses of the Hallite. 

 Farther southeast is a section of this granulite, and there appears on 

 the northwest, serpentine, then a thin stratum of Hallite, then 

 granulite fragmentary, then a V-shaped mass of Hallite and frag- 

 mentary granulite, then serpentine. The strike is about N. 50° E. 

 and the dip curves 70° southeast on the southeast side, to 80° north- 

 west on the northwest side. Some of the granulite resembles the Lee- 

 lite of southern Chester county which passes into Deweylite. This 

 •exposure is 10 or 12 feet across and the appearance is that of a dyke. 

 About fifty feet southeast of this is a similar exposure, of similar 

 character, with strike about the same, dip 70° southeast, and on the 

 northwest of it, Hallite enclosing decomposed granulite. 



The ravine northwest of this shows few exposures, but granulite 

 is abundant, here inclosing sunstone and Amazon stone. 



South of the Black Horse Inn is one of the largest areas of 

 serpentine, and in this, a large quarry w'as wrought for many 

 years. In this vicinity large masses of granulite are abundant, some 

 of them containing very beautiful moonstone. Here occurs also 

 corundum in crystals in albite, the locality being about a quarter of a 

 mile south of the Black Horse Inn on the road to Elwyn. On this 

 road the chief rock is the schists, with serpentine close to the Inn, 

 and also about a quarter of a mile north of the railroad, the latter 

 apparently not over 50 feet wide. 



For brevity, I have used the term granulite to indicate the feld- 

 spathic rock so abundant in this region. Most of it is strictly gran- 

 ulite, a mixture of feldspar and quartz, the feldspar fi'equently oligo- 

 clase and gi-eatly predominating, some of it probably containing no 

 quartz at all. In some of it hornblende occurs but usually in very 

 small proportion, as in the so-called granite quarries on Chrome 

 Run near the State road. In the schistose varieties mica occurs, but 

 it is probably absent in the compact varieties. Some of it is very 

 fine grained, some coarse with crystals of feldspar an inch or more 

 across, in fact a porphyry. In decomposing some of it bi-eaks up 

 into small angular fragments, which are quite hard, and some of it 




114 TROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



passes into kaolin, while in some places it appears to be changing 

 into a serpentine-like mineral. 



I have described the region thus minutely because my conclusions 

 in regard to it differ from Mr. Hall's, and because the exposures at 

 any one place are not convincing. 



Mr. Hall's theory requires a lower region of schists, lying at low 

 angles, overlaid by the serpentines in one or more synclinal basins. 

 I have been unable to find an instance of a dip under 70°, while there 

 are hundreds 70° and upwards. 



AVhere the schists and granulites, and the serpentines, occur in con- 

 tact, and both walls can be seen, one is included in the other in a mode 

 precluding any theory of synclinal or anticlinal folding and to make 

 interbedding the only possible explanation. 



Whether the granulites are all stratified, or whether some of them 

 are igneous is a more diflicult question. It is certain that some of 

 them are stratified, as in the cut west of Elwyn and that east of 

 Glen Riddle station, but others, as on the east side of Chrome Run 

 and in Crump's quarry, have a plutonic asjiect and resemble very 

 closely the granulite dykes which penetrate the chrysotile bearing 

 serpentines near Black Lake and Thetford P. Q. At this place the 

 explorations for chrysotile have well exposed the rock, which Dr. 

 Ells of the Geol. Survey of Canada informs me is an altered intrusive 

 diorite. Penetrating the serpentine are frequent dykes of granulite 

 from a foot wide upwards, with the dyke character distinctly 

 marked. The serpentine being hard and undecomposed, the eflfect 

 of the dykes was apparent in slickensides and slaty, fibrous and 

 jointed structure. Two small dykes which I examined were de- 

 composed next to the serpentine and the whole appearance was 

 almost a counterpart of that shown at Crump's quarry at Mineral 

 Hill above described. Of these exposures Dr. R. W. Ells writes. 



. " In all these areas (Thetford, etc.) the serpentines are closely associated with 

 the dtorites, of some portions of which they are undoubtedly, in part at least, an 

 alteration product, in contact with the black Cambrian slates on the one hand, and 

 with hard whitish granulite on the other. The latter, which sometimes assumes 

 the nature of a granite, frequently occurs in huge masses, or dykes, cutting the 

 serpentine rocks both here, and at Black Lake and Thetford." Geol. Can. 1886, 

 J. 29. 



Speaking of the asbestus (chrysotile) mines of Belmine, he says : 



"The serpentine is associated with considerable masses of whitish granulite 

 * * * * ii^ places * * * * a true granite. This appears in places to 

 cut the serpentine after the manner of true dykes. * * It is presumable that in 

 most cases at least the rock is to a great extent an alteration product of some form 

 of dioritic rock rich in olivine." Id. p. 43. 




1890.] NATURAL BCIENCi:S OF rillLADELPIIIA. 115 



I think the weight of the evidence is, that underlying this region 

 are highly feldspathic schists inclosing beds of enstatite and perhaps 

 other hornblende-like minerals, that through this probably penetrate 

 dykes of granulite, that the enstatite, etc. have become serpentine 

 and allied minerals, while the schists and granulite have decomposed. 

 The serpentine also in many parts has changed into quartz, and this 

 quartz now lies strewn upon the surface as the most abundant rock, 

 simply by reason of its stability. Were a section of rock from the 

 Glen Riddle cut spread upon land and exposed to the weather for a 

 few seasons, probably nothing would be left but soil and the honey- 

 comb quartz, which last would probably appear to be the chief, if 

 not the only rock, while in fact it does not constitute two per cent of 

 the volume. This theory would account for the excellence of the 

 soil in most parts of this area, indeed over nearly all of it where the 

 serpentine is not actually visible at the surface. This was well de- 

 scribed by an intelligent farmer with whom I conversed, in the 

 words, " where the serpentine lies deep the ground is good." I am 

 informed that in nearly all the wells, even where the honey-comb 

 quartz is quite abundant at the surface, the rock reached is a gneiss 

 or schist. 



In one respect this Media outcrop is anomalous. It appears to be 

 the only one away from the Laurentian in which enstatite appears. 

 On the east branch of Ridley creek, that is northeast of the table- 

 land, there is a small outcrop of this rock with a strike which would 

 carry it into the area under consideration. This enstatite is in the 

 schistose gneisses, apparently as an interbedded mass, and is in the 

 direct line of the outcrops arranged in line to Palmer's Mills as 

 shown on Hall's map. The exposures are poor, but that they are 

 all within the schists is unquestionable and with them in some cases 

 a coarse granite is associated, apparently interstratified in the schists. 



It is further true that the northwestwardly part of the Media out- 

 cro}), or rather series of outcrops, does border the Laurentian, and 

 that the serpentine lying along Dismal Run may be a continuation 

 of the Blue Hill serpentine, and may be entirely distinct from the 

 southerly outcrops which are certainly in the schists. 



The Serpentine of Glen Mills on Chester Creek. 



Mr. Hall finds a narrow synclinal of schists with serpentine over- 

 lying the gneisses of Chester creek which he regards as Laurentian. 

 I have already stated my reasons for thinking these gneisses a part 




116 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



of the Manayunk group. A recent careful examination confirms me 

 in this and indicates that the serpentines of this vicinity, like those 

 farther east, are altered beds in the Manayunk gneisses. 



The serpentines are shown on Mr. Hall's map as four distinct out- 

 crops, one on each side of the creek, on a line passing N. 50° E. 

 through Glen Mills, and two on a parallel line about three-quarters 

 of a mile S. E. near Sharpless' feldspar quarry. 



The outcrop west of the creek nearest Glen Mills is confined to a 

 very trivial exposure in the road. That southwest of it I could not 

 find. East of the creek were trivial exposures of honey-comb quartz 

 loose on the surface, but I believe considerably north of Mr. Hall's 

 line. 



At Glen Mills, the topographical base of Mr. Hall's map is incor- 

 rect or the roads and railroad have been changed since it was made. 

 The road to Sharpless' quarry is correct and the green spot at its 

 westerly termination correctly indicates the location of the serpen- 

 tine there. The railroad north of this crosses the old creek bed as 

 shown, diverting the creek to the west side of the railroad, which, 

 however, does not continue on the east side, but crosses immediately 

 below Glen Mills station, and thence continues on the west side. 

 This crossing and the station are about a half mile north of the road 

 to Sharpless' quarry, and at this point there is another bridge over 

 the creek connecting four converging roads, or more accurately, per- 

 mitting the road along the creek to cross, going northwardly, from 

 the w^est bank to the east, and a northeast and southwest road to 

 cross the creek. It is on this last road I observed the honey-comb 

 quartz east of the creek. On Mr. Hall's map these roads are 

 located a considerable distance north of their true position. 



Beginning at the creek about a half mile north of Glen Mills sta- 

 tion and this bridge, at the point at which on Mr. Hall's map, trap 

 in Laurentian is indicated, a very compact garnetiferous gneiss is 

 found. South of this, a recent cut for a railroad to the n^w House 

 of Refuge shows the same gneiss interbedded in the Manayunk 

 gneisses, some decomposed, some not, some contorted, some regular, 

 showing a strike about N. 20° E. with a southeasterly dip of 20° to 

 50°. South of this is another excellent exposure on the railroad and 

 about here should'be the northerly margin of the schist area, but the 

 same rocks appear, and continue with constant exposures, down the 

 creek to and beyond the Sharpless road. Close to the road and to 

 the north of it is a quarry evidently not wrought for many years. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



The hard gneisses appear iu the bottom and side. The face of the 

 quarry shows alternations of the hard gneisses with decomposed rock. 



At the north wall of this quarry a very regular stratum gave 

 strike N. 30° W. dip 50° N. E. West of this, along the railroad 

 there is a prevalent easterly dip 45° to 70°. The strike is quite ir- 

 regular, owing to contortions in the strata ; N. 0° E., N. 30° E., N. 

 20° W. were observed. 



South of the Sharpless road is low ground and a creek flowing 

 from the northwest; south of this is a hill showing the gneiss with a 

 cut 150 feet long through part of it. At the north end the gneiss is 

 very massive and irregular. In the middle it is coarse and very 

 feldspathic, over this part a southeast dip is visible, at the south end 

 there is a northwest dip of 70° to 90° with a strike N. 60° E. 



On the Sharpless road, east of Chester creek the same gneisses ap- 

 pear much decomposed. 



Along the bottom of the creek mentioned as flowing from the 

 northwest into the Chester creek at the Sharpless road the same 

 gneiss is quite abundant in loose masses. 



On the west bank of Chester creek close to the serpentine, no out- 

 crops are visible but there are loose masses of the gneiss, and 300 feet 

 south, it occurs in place. 



The outcrop at Joel Sharpless' is shown as tAvo in a line N. E. 

 and S. W. I found but one, at the summit of a high hill about 

 one hundred yards south of the road and approximately par- 

 allel to it (N. 70° E). The only rock visible is the honey-comb 

 quartz but it is in large quantity over several acres of ground. The 

 gneiss is visible in the road and occurs also in large loose masses in 

 the next field south of the quartz. 



The Sharpless feldspar and mica quarry is not to the north of the 

 serpentine but to the southeast, and on the east side of the small 

 creek shown on the map. This quarry is in an exceedingly coarse 

 granite containing much orthoclase and mica, the latter crystallized, 

 the orthoclase in the upper part kaolinized, Some crystals of the 

 mica are more than a foot iu length and breadth, but the larger crys- 

 tals seem very irregular, and I am informed that much of the mica 

 was unmerchantable. The quarry has not been w'rought for years 

 and evidently the work was not systematically conducted. Very 

 large beryls occurred in the granite. 



AH the Delaware and Montgomery county outcrops close to the 

 Laurentian are characterized by the general very dark color and great 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



hardness of the serpentines, and by the rarity of minerals, except 

 varieties of serpentine, and asbestus, enstatite and quartz, the latter 

 resulting from the alteration of the serpentine. At nearly all the 

 outcrops there is evidence, and at some of them almost absolute 

 proof, that the serpentine results from the alteration of the enstatite. 

 Chromite, Genthite and Ripidolite occur rarely. 



The pseudomorphism of enstatite into serpentine may be most 

 clearly seen at Rose's quarry on the La Fayette belt about one thou- 

 sand feet west of the Schuylkill, where the same stratum is enstatite 

 below, serpentine above, but rocks in process of change may be found 

 at many of the other outcrops, especially along the great Radnor 

 belt, also at the outcrop S. W. of Newtown Square and where 

 the LaFayette belt crosses Darby Creek near the southwest corner 

 of Radnor Township. 



It is true that Dr. T. Sterry Hunt ' contends that the origin of the 

 serpentine and related magnesian rocks was to be found in deposits 

 of hydrous silicates like the magnesian marls of the Paris basin and 

 that the enstatite, etc. are derived from the serpentine. 



In the region under discussion, the evidence is that the enstatite 

 and the serpentine are pseudomorplious one of the other. Inas- 

 much as there frequently occur serpentine pseudomorphs after other 

 minerals, in which the crystalline form of the original mineral is pres- 

 ent, e. g., after chrysolite, enstatite, staurolite, pyroxene, hornblende, 

 etc., while there is no evidence whatever that any of these minerals, 

 or probably any others, except quartz, have resulted from the decom- 

 position of serpentine, I incline to the other view. This is supported 

 too by the mode of occurrence. The enstatite at Rose's quarry on 

 the Schuylkill opposite LaFayette station is found at the bottom ; as 

 the stratum rises it can be seen to be more and more changed grad- 

 ually until, near the top, true serpentine results and the enstatite 

 disappears. There is, throughout, evidence of ^reat pressure in a 

 slaty structure and slickensides, proof that the forming mineral occu- 

 pies the greater bulk, which would be the case if serpentine is the re- 

 sulting mineral. Enstatite being a crystalline mineral would it not, 

 if formed by dehydration from a hydrous magnesian silicate change 

 abruptly into more or less crystalline masses rather than in the uni- 

 formly progressive mode in Avhich we find it, whereas the latter is 

 exactly as we should expect to find hydration occur. 



1 Min. Phys. & Phys., p. 432. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



It will be instructive in this connection to quote observations of 

 of Dr. Genth and others in regard to these and like serpentines. 



Speaking of tlie corundum of Chester, Mass., Dr. F. A. Genth' 

 says : 



" The whole deposit lies in a talcose slate and serpentine between 

 gneiss and mica slate in the centre of the Green Mountains." 



Dr. Genth ^ shows that the chromiferous and nickeliferous ser- 

 pentines and talc slates owe their existence to the decomposition of 

 chrysolite rocks. 



" In Pennsylv.inia, where the unaltered chrysolite rock has never been observed, 

 a rock has been found which is its representative and contains the same constituents, 

 only in different proportions. In Nortii Carolina the granular chrysolite always 

 contains small quantities of enstatite (bronzite), in Pennsylvania on the contrary we 

 have an enstatite (bronzite) rock containing small grains (from 5 to 10^) of chrys- 

 olite. It is best developed at Castle Rock, Delaware county, also near Wood's 

 Chrome Mine in Lancaster county. 



In all the chrysolite rocks small grains or crystals of chromite are disseminated 

 through the mass of the rocks; in the serpentine, which has resulted from (he 

 alteration of the chrysolite, these crystals or grains are still present and give evi- 

 dence of the original mineral " ■* 



Dr. Julien * writing of the dunyte beds of Is . C.says, "the dunyte 

 beds are everywhere and exclusively found inclosed in a stratum of 

 hornblende gneiss black and slaty. This forms the upper layer and 

 largely occupies the central zone of the mass of gneisses and schists 

 entirely of types identical with those found in the White Mountains 

 of New Hampshire." 



Dr. R. W. Raymond, '' speaking of the Jenks corundum mine in 

 Macon Co., N. C, and quoting Prof. Kerr says, " This mountain tract 

 of Laurentian rocks ^ =!^ * along the middle of the belt now 

 specially under consideration a discontinuous line of outcrops 

 appears at intervals from Cane creek in Mitchell county through 

 the intervening counties of X. C. into Union county, Ga. These 

 are called in the State Geological Report dykes of chrysolite or 

 dunite," and adds, " I should not be surprised if future careful study 

 of all the localities should show these chrysolite beds to be inter- 

 calated members of the formation in which they occur." 



He then concludes as a result of his studies that the rock is un- 

 doubtedly sedimentary in character, the dunyte sometimes inter- 



1 Am. Phil. S.. September 19th, 1873. 



2 Sill. Jour. Vol. 2, pp. 111-202. 



3 Dr. Genth, Am. Phil. So., Aug. ISth, 1882, page 394. 



4 Proc. Boston Soc. of Natural History, Vol. XX, p. 11, Dec. 6th, 1882. 



5 Trans. Am. Inst. M. E. 1876. 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



bedded in the gneiss in large layers one to six meters in thickness 

 and that four modes of alteration of this dunyte occur, viz. : — 



1, Chalcedonic. "When all the bases have disappeared and the 

 chalcedony remains as an exceedingly cellular mass of thin scales 

 and plates parallel or anastomosing with the greatest irregularity, 

 a chalcedonic schist or siliceous sinter is the result, often bearing 

 some resemblance to a buhrstone." 



2. Hornblendic. " The final result is a green actinolite rock or 

 schist or grayish-white amphibolyte or tremolyte schist. 



'x Talcose. 



4. Ophiolitic. 



5. Dioritic." 



One prominent feature of the most of the Pennsylvania outcrops 

 above described is the abruptness of their appearance and disappear- 

 ance, in this respect resembling far more plutonic masses than inter- 

 stratified beds or synclinal basins. If interstratified they should be 

 somewhat lenticular in outline. If synclinal the adjacent dips being 

 steep as seems to be always the fact they should also show a more or 

 less lenticular or boat-shaped outline. On the contrary, where ex- 

 posed they often appear abruptly and end abruptly, well shown at 

 the outcrops east and northwest of Radnor station, on the Radnor 

 and Chester road near Darby creek, in Marple, at Blue Hill where 

 a hill or ridge of considerable height is serpentine to the southwest 

 bounded by Laurentian on the northwest and wholly Laurentian on 

 the northeast, the strike of the Laurentian being nearly south, that 

 of the hill nearly northeast and southwest.^ Nevertheless the posi- 

 tion of the serpentine belts close to the Laurentian on the one side 

 and with mica and hornblende schists on the other, seems to for- 

 bid our regarding them as intrusive rocks. The subject is beset 

 with difficulties but the theory of interbedding, notwithstanding the 

 difficulty of explaining the want of continuity and the abrupt ap- 

 pearance and disappearance, seems the only one tenable. It is true 

 that the great Conshohocken trap dyke strikes almost with the adja- 

 cent rocks, but nevertheless it does not do so exactly, its bearing west- 

 wardly being more southerly, so that at the Schuylkill it is in the 

 hydromica schist of the South (Chester) Valley Hill. It then cuts at 

 a very acute angle the limestone, Potsdam and, mica schists of Cream 



1 The outcrops of the Radnor-West Chester belt are on a hne nearly east and 

 west but the outcrops themselves all cross this line bearing more N. E. and S. W. 

 except tliat northeast of Radnor station. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 121 



Valley, reaching the Laurentian at Devon, south westward of that 

 seeming to retain no longer its rectilinear aspect. 



I believe, therefore, that there are in this region certainly 

 tw'o, and perhaps four horizons of serpentine ; one in the Laurentian, 

 a second, perhaps in, but certainly if not in, almost immediately 

 above, the Laurentian, a third of altered schists, probably a synclinal 

 in mica schists of the Chestnut Hill series and the fourth altered horn- 

 blende-like rocks in the Manayunk schists. It may be that the first 

 should be groui)ed with the second, and the third with the fourth. 

 It would seem probable that at the close of the Laurentian period 

 in this region magnesian silicates were abundant, possibly derived 

 from the trap rocks so common in the Laurentian of Delaware 

 County, or from volcanoes whose existence the trap dykes indicate ; 

 that subsequently, portions of the rocks were eroded and probably 

 sorted by wave action, and owing to their high specific gravity 

 formed beds in the more recent schists similar to the magnetite beds 

 of the Laurentian. 



As to the age of these schists much more must be learned before 

 we can feel any certainty. Lithologically they are Montalban and 

 Huronian, but if there is no fault and the sandstone at Waverly 

 Heights and vicinity is Potsdam, the schists adjacent to the Lauren- 

 tian are of that age or more recent. This the exposure on the 

 Paper Mill road at Chestnut Hill seems to confirm. I have seen 

 no evideuce of the supposed fault and much to lead me to believe 

 that it does not exist — at least that it does not exist as an extensive 

 fault. Minor faults are common. 



The belief that the Potsdam is absent west of the Schuylkill has, 

 I believe, led to this error and to the connecting of the North 

 (Chester) Valley Hill with the Barren Hill ridge i ; whereas they are,, 

 apparently, as shown on the map in C*^, parts of the opposing legs of a 

 synclinal underlying the Chester-Montgomery limestone vallev,, 

 and my observations make the structure west of the Schuylkill 

 almost precisely that shown in C**, at Spring Mill, viz., going 

 northwest from the 1 -Laurentian ; 2-Rogers' altered primal ; 8-Pots- 

 dam ; 4-limestone No. 2 of Cream Valley ; 5-Hydromica schist (South 

 Valley Hill); 6-Limestone No. 2 (of Chester Valley) ; 7-Potsdamof 



1 Prof. Lesley, Notes of the Geol. of the Schuylkill river, 1884, p. 6, says: 

 " On the east side of the river at Spring Mills the limestone is evidently faulted 

 against the azoic rocks of the Philadelphia belt." But the visible succession is 

 southtast, 1-Laurentian, 2-Roger's altered primal, 3-Poisdam sand>tone, 4- 

 limestone, 5-hydromica (with trapj, 6-limestone, 7-Potsdam northwest. 



9 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



North Valley Hill, 8-Conglomerate probably lower Potsdam, 9-Lau- 

 rentian. Nos. 2 and 8 are not on the map in C^ This would in- 

 dicate a broad synclinal, the Laurentian at the base, the hydromica 

 schists at the centre and the limestones of Cream Valley and of the 

 Chester Valley identical. 



There is one fact not easy of explanation. The South Valley Hill 

 on a line from Radnor station to the King of Prussia is over two 

 miles wide and is a broad elevated table-land. Close to this line two 

 valleys begin, draining northeastward, dividing the table-land 

 into three hills. Of these the middle and the northernmost end west 

 of the Gulf road, forming promontories projecting as it were into 

 bays. East of these promontories the whole region is limestone. 

 The southernmost division of the hill preserves its elevation and 

 crosses the Schuylkill at Conshohocken, but it is less than half a 

 mile in breadth. 



Now if the limestone were in strata nearly horizontal, we could 

 readily ex})lain this by supposing a deposition subsequent to the ele- 

 vation and denundation of the hydromica, but on the contrary all ob- 

 servable dips are vertical or nearly so. This seems opposed to the 

 theory of a simple synclinal. 



Is it possible that the limestone underlying the hydromica has 

 3Deen folded and crumpled up with it, in minute compressed anti- 

 clinals and synclinals like that exposed on the Schuylkill below Potts 

 Landing, that the hydromica has been removed by erosion, leaving the 

 ridges of limestone ? This is but conjecture. The structure, however, 

 is quite evident, and no other explanation seems to satisfy the con- 

 .ditions. 



In the cut of the Pennsylvania Schuylkill Valley Railroad through 

 the hydromica schist hill at Conshohocken, what appeared to be 

 decomposed hydromica schist was underlaid by limestone. 



In this connection may be mentioned the fact that the basin of 

 the Conshohocken Water Works, on this hill of hydromica schist, has 

 two or three times suddenly emptied itself through holes in the bot- 

 tom without visible outlet — easily explicable if the limestone under- 

 lies, but difficult otherwise. 



If the hydromica schist overlies the limestone, then the sandstone 

 X)n the north side of the hydromica hill, and on the south side of the 

 Chester Valley cannot be Potsdam, as Prof Rogers, Prof Lewis and 

 the writer supposed, but must be more recent. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



Except the Conslioliocken trap dyke, aud the numerous dykes of 

 the Laurentian, mostly small and apparently of limited length, 

 I have nowhere found trap in the region. I have visited the 

 localities at which the trap is shown on the map in Vol. C* except 

 Howellville, Delaware county, which is in Laurentian, and I believe 

 that on Chester creek and also on Colleen brook near Darby creek a 

 very compact gneiss has been taken for trap. 



In the schists and gneisses east of the porphyritic and especially in 

 the Fairmount gneiss the granite is usually segregated, but it is prob- 

 able that intrusive masses occur. ^ 



1 2nd. Geol. Survey of Pa. Ann. Rep. 1886, IV, 1602, & plate 1570. 




124 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



CATALOGUE OF THE OWLS IN THE COLLECTION OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



BY WITHER STONE. 



In the following list I have not followed Mr. Sharpe's Catalogue 

 of Birds in the arrangement of the genera and species as was done 

 in the Catalogue of the Muscicapidre (Proc. Phila. Acad. 1889, p. 

 146), since his work seems to differ in this respect from most of the 

 recent works on the subject. But, having adopted the names and 

 arrangement of the North American species, as given in the A. 0. U. 

 Check List, I have endeavored to interpolate the foreign genera 

 and species in their proper places, and to make the nomenclature 

 conform, as nearly as possible, to the code of the American Orni- 

 thologists' Union. 



The total number of species and subspecies of Striges seems to be 

 somewhat over 200 and of these the Academy collection contains 

 113, represented by 525 specimens including the types of 14 species. 

 The principal individual collections to which the specimens be- 

 long are as follows : 



Massena collection, covering the whole world. 



Gould collection, Australia. 



Boys collection, India. 



DuChaillu collection. West Africa. 



Prince Momfanoi collection, Siam. 



Pease and D'Oca collections, Mexico. 



Townsend collection. Western N. A. and Sandwich Islands. 



Cassin and Krider collections, mainly N. A. 



Abbott collection of skins, North America and West Indies. 

 The majority of these were contained in the private collection of 

 Dr. Thomas B. Wilson and w'ere presented by him to the Academy. 

 After each species are given the localities from which the Academy 

 has specimens. 



Family STRIGIDJE. 



Strix aluco Linn. (=/S'. Jiammea of authors.) 



Specimens from France and Liberia. 

 Strix aluco javanica. (Gm.) 



India, specimens collected by Capt. Boys. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



Strix aluco delicatula. (Gould.) 



Types, from Australia, Gould's collection. 

 Strix pratincola Bonap. 1 



Specimens from Penn., N. J., N. Y., Dist. of Col. and Cal. " 



Strix pratincola perlata. (Lieht.) i 



One from Brazil and two from Nicaragua, probably the latter | 



belong to the race guatemalae Ridgw., but I cannot distinguish them I 



from the South American bird. 

 Strix pratincola furcata. (Temm.) i 



Several specimens from Cuba. i 



Strix novae-hollandiae Steph. 



A series from N. and S. Australia and Is . S. Wales, Gould col- 

 lection. 

 Strix castanops Gould. 



Types of the species from Tasmania, Gould's collection. 

 Strix tenebricosa Gould. 



Type of the species from Is^ew South AVales ; also one from the j 



Massena collection. ' 



Strix Candida Tick. 



One specimen from India. 

 Strix capensis Smith. ; 



Three specimens from Cape of Good Hope. 

 Rhodilus radius. (Horsf.) 



One specimen from India, Capt. Boys' collection. I 



Family BUBONIDAE. | 



Asio otus. (Linn.) 



A series froni Europe, Rivoli collection. 

 Asio wilsonianus. (Less.) 



A series from Pennsylvania and Ncav Jersey. 

 Asio madagascariensis. (Smith.) i 



One male, Madagascar. 

 Asio capensis. (Smith.) ' 



Specimens from South Africa and ]\Iorocco. j 



Asio accipitrinus. (Pall.) i 



Specimens from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, California ; South 

 America, India and France ; also one specimen from the Sandwich 

 Islands {A. sandvicensis Blyth.) collected by J. K. Townsend, M. D. ! 




126 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



PULSATRIX PERSriCILLATA. (Lath.) 



Young in various stages of plumage also adult male and female, 

 from Brazil, Nicaragua and Jalapa, Mexico. There is also a spec- 

 imen from Peru which seems to differ from any described phase of 

 this species. It is uniform chocolate brown above, lighter than per- 

 spicillata and showing a tendency to darker coloration on the head, 

 the breast and throat are chocolate uniform with the back, the 

 white being confined to a spot on the chin, the rest of the under sur- 

 face is fulvous, the white spots on the wing coverts are much less 

 marked than in perspicillata and are suffused with fulvous. Mr. 

 Ridgway, whom I consulted about this specimen, writes me that there 

 is in the National Museum " one specimen with no white whatever 

 on the chin, while a large majority have no trace of white or light 

 colored markings on the Aving coverts." I think it probable, there- 

 fore, considering the variation in this group, that this is merely a 

 phase of perspicillata rather than a distinct species or race. 



CiCCABA HULULA. (Daud.) 



Several specimens from South America. 

 Cacciba nigrolineata. (Scl.) 



Jalapa, Mexico, from the D'Oca collection. 



CiCCABA VIRGATA. (CaSS.) 



Specimens from Mexico, Cayenne, Bogota and Trinidad, Some 

 of the South American specimens are in all jirobability Mr. Cassin's 

 types, but there are no data to show wdiich they are. 

 CiCCABA SUPERCILANS. (Peltz.) Brazil. 



CiCCABA ALBOGULARIS. (CaSS.) 



Several specimens from South America including the types of the 

 species. 

 CiCCABA HYLOPHILA. (Temm.) Columbia and Brazil. 



[The species of the old genus Syrnium form a very perplexing 

 group when a subdivision is attempted. The northern genus Sco- 

 tiaptex is easily separable ; then there are the typical Syrniums from 

 the more northern portions of both continents, the species varying 

 more and more from the type as they go south. I have followed 

 Sclater and Salvin in grouping the South American naked-toed spe- 

 cies together in the genus Ciccaba. The African forms seem to 

 vary in much the same way, but for convenience I have left them 

 as well as all the other old world species in the genus Syrnium. 

 The synonymy of the generic names which have been applied to 

 these species seems to be considerably involved.] 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



Syrnium nuchale Sharpe. 



Rivers Moonda and Ogobai, West Africa collected by DuChaillu. 

 Syrnium woodfordi. (Smith). Cape of Good Hope. 

 Syrnium leptogrammicum. (Temm.) Sumatra. 

 Syrnium newarense. (Hodgs.) Malabar. 

 Syrnium ocellatum Less. India. 

 Syrnium sinense. (Lath.) Java. 

 Syrnium nivicolum Hodgs. India. 

 Syrnium stridulum. (Linn.) (^S. alaco, authors.) 



Specimens from France, Sweden and Algeria. 

 Syrnium nebulosum. (Forst.) 



Specimens from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 

 Syrnium uralense. (Fall.) 



Sweeden, from Kinberg's collection. 

 Syrnium uralense fuscescens. (Tem. and Schl.) 



One specimen from Japan. 

 SCOTIAPTEX cinereum. (Gm.) 



One specimen collected by J. K. Townsend in the Rocky Mts. 

 ScoTiAPTEX cinereum lapponicum. (Retz.) 



One typical specimen from Russia, and another marked " Northern 

 Europe " which is darker with considerable rufous on the hind neck. 

 Nyctala tengmalmi. (Gm.) France. 

 Nyctala tengmalmi richardsoni. (Bonap.) 



" Fort Resolution, HudsonBay Terr.," presented by the Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 

 Nyctala acadica. (Gmel.) 



Pennsylvania and other parts of the United States. Also one 

 from Cassin's collection marked Bogota. 

 Nyctalatinus harrisi (Cass.) 



One specimen which is in all probability the type though it bears 

 no label Avhatever. 

 Megascops scops. (Linn.) 



Specimens from France, Senegal and one from the Himalayas 

 which seems to be identical with European specimens, though it 

 should perhaps be referred to the race pennahis. 

 Megascops scops capensis (Smith.) 



A distinct dark race represented by several specimens from Cape 

 of Good Hope. 

 Megascops scops hendersonii. (Cass.) 



Types. A male and female marked " Off Novo Redonda, came 

 on board." These birds are smaller than any other specimens of 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Megascops in the collection and seem to constitute a distinct race. 

 They are very bright in their markings and are much lighter on the 

 back than South African specimens. 

 Megascops sunia. (Hodgs.) India, 

 Megascops elegans. (Cassin.) 



One specimen from Japan, type of the species. I do not think 

 this is the bird described by Sharpe under Scops elegans from China, 

 as his description does not suit the type before me. M. elegans seems 

 to me to be more nearly related to M. menadensis from the Celebes. 

 (See also Stejneger, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1886, p. 640.) 

 Megascops magicus. (Miill.) 



A specimen from Siam is doubtfully referred to this species. 

 Megascops magicus menadensis. (Q. & G.) Celebes. 

 Megascops magicus leucospilus. (Gray.) India. 

 Megascops lettia. (Hodgs.) 



Specimens collected in India by Capt. Boys and compared with 

 the type by Dr. T. B. AVilson. July 1851. 

 Megascops lempiji. (Horsf.) 



Specimens from Java, Borneo and India. 

 Megascops rufescens. (Horsf.) 



Specimens from Sumatra. 

 Megascops sagittatus. (Cassin.) 



Three specimens from Malacca, types of the species. 

 Megascops leucotis. (Temm.) 



Four specimens from Fazogloa. This is a very distinct species 

 and reminds one of an Indian Bubo in miniature. 

 Megascops asio. (Linn.) 



Series from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 

 Megascops asio maccallii. (Cass.) 



One immature bird from New Mexico. 

 Megascops asio semitorques. (Schl.) 



Specimens from Japan. 

 Megascops brasilianus. (Gm.) 



Series from Cayenne, Brazil, etc. 

 Megascops brasilianus Guatemala e (Sharpe) ? 



Several specimens doubtfully referred to this race. 

 Megascops brasilianus ustus. (Scl.) 



Specimens from Peru and Columbia. 

 Megascops brasilianus watsoni. (Cassin.) 



Type of the species from Orinoco. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



Megascops barbarus. (Scl. and Salv.) 



One darkly colored specimen from Mexico. 



There is another INfegascops (No. 2442) from Panama, reddish- 

 brown above with very fine transverse markings, and marked 

 below with rufous cross bars, very fine and very close together so as 

 to appear nearly uniform on the breast. This specimen does not 

 agree well with any described phase, but is perhaps related to 

 barbarus. 

 Megascops cooperi. (Ridgway.) 



One specimen agreeing well with Mr. Ridgway's description and 

 easily distiuguished by the bristly toes from any member of the 

 brasilianus group to which it approaches in coloration. 

 LoPHOSTRix CRiSTATA. (Daud.) 



Four specimens from Cayenne representing both phases of plum- 

 age. 



SCOTOPELIA PELI. Bp. 



One immature specimen from W. Africa collected by DuChaillu. 

 Ketupa ceylonensis. (Gm.) 



Specimens from Bengal and two from Capt. Boys' collection. 

 Ketupa javensis Less. 



Specimens from Java, Sumatra and India. 

 Bubo bubo. (Linn.) France and Switzerland. 

 Bubo virginianus. (Gm.) Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 

 Bubo virginianus subarcticus. (Hoy.) 



Specimens from Iowa and California and also the type taken in 

 Wisconsin, presented by Dr. Hoy. 

 Bubo virginianus magellanicus. (Gm.) 



Specimens from South America. 

 Bubo mexicanus. (Gm.) 



Specimens from Cayenne. 

 Bubo bencjalensis. (Frank.) 



India. Collected by Capt. Boys. 

 Bubo ascalaphus Sav. Morocco and Egypt. 

 Bubo capensis Smith. Cape of Good Hope. 

 Bubo maculosus. (Vieill.) Cape of Good Hope. 

 Bubo cinerascens Guer. Fazogloa. 

 Bubo lacteus. (Temm.) Senegal, W. Africa. 

 Bubo coromandus. (Lath.) India, collected by Capt. Boys. 

 Bubo nipalensis Hodgs. Himalayas. 

 Bubo orientalis. (Horsf ) India and Java. 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Bubo leucostictus Hartl. 



Moonda river, W. Africa, collected by DuChaillu. 

 Nyctea nyctea. (Linn.) 



Specimens from New Jersey, and some from northern Europe. 

 Surnia ulula. (Linn.) Europe. 

 SuRNiA ULULA CAPAROCH. (Miill.) Nova Scotia. 

 Speotyto cunicularia. (Molina.) Bolivia and Peru. 

 Speotyto cunicularia hypogaea. (Bonap.) 



Specimens from California, Oregon and New Mexico. 

 Speotyto cunicularia floridana. Ridgw. 



One specimen from the west coast of Florida. 

 Gymnasio nudipes. (Daud.) 



Two specimens from St. Thomas, W. I. 

 Gymnasio lawrencil (Scl. & Salv.) Cuba. 

 Athene noctua. (Scop.) France and Algeria. 

 Athene brama. (Temm.) India. 

 NiNOX LUGUBRis. (Tick.) India. 

 NiNOX scuTELLATA. (Raffl.) Sumatra. 

 NiNOX BOOBOOK. (Lath.) 



S. and W. Australia, from Gould's collection. 

 NiNOX novae-zealandiae. (Gm.) New Zealand. 

 NiNOx maculata. (Vig. & Horsf.) Tasmania. 

 NiNox PUNCTULATA. (Q. & G.) Celebes. 



NiNOX CONNIVENS. (Lath.) 



New South Wales. Gould's collection. 



NiNOX STRENUA. (Gould.) 



Types of the species from New South Wales, Gould's collection. 

 Also the type of Athene rufa Gould, which seems to be a phase of 

 this species, from Pt. Essingtou, North Australia. 

 Glaucidium passerinum. (Linn.) France. 

 Glaucidium gnoma. Wagl. 



California and Washington Territory. 

 Glaucidium pumilum. (Temm.) 



Two specimens, one from S. America and the other with no local- 

 ity. These are the specimens described by Ridgway, Proc. Bos. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist. 1873, pp. 97 and 98. 

 Glaucidium siju D'Orb. Cuba. 

 Glaucidium nanum. (King.) South America. 

 Glaucidium jardinii. (Bonap.) 



New Grenada and Brazil including the types of G. langshergii 

 Ridgw. (Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. Hist. 1873, p. 98). Dr. Wilson's 

 name is written " lanshergii " on the stands. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



Glaucidium phalaenoides. (Daud.) 



A large series of specimens in both phases of plumage, varying 

 in both size and coloration. 

 Glaucidium bkodiei. (Burton.) India. 

 Glaucidium perlatum. (Vieill.) Senegal and South Africa. 

 Glaucidium radiatum. (Tick.) Himalayas. 

 Glaucidium castanopterum. (Horsf.) Java. 

 Glaucidium cuculoides. (Gould.) India. 



MiCROPALLAS WHITNEYI. (CoOpcr.) 



One specimen from Arizona, presented by the Philadelphia Zoo- 

 logical Society. 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



GEOLOGY OF ARTESIAN WELLS AT ATLANTIC CITY, N. J. 



BY LEWIS WOOLMAN. 



During the past three years there have been drilled for the Con- 

 sumers' Water Company at Atlantic City, IST. J., four artesian wells. 

 These are of various depths as will be more particularly noticed further 

 on. As the work progressed I have been studying it from a geological 

 stand-point, believing that a careful record of the succession of strata 

 penetrated and of their included fossils would, in connection with 

 information yet to be obtained by developments at other localities, 

 lead to valuable results. Among these would be the construc- 

 tion of a true vertical section across the State from Camden to 

 the sea, showing the amount of dip and the thickness of each of the 

 various Quaternary (?), Miocene, Eocene and Cretaceous beds includ- 

 ing also the determination of the number and location of the 

 different water-bearing strata. 



"Whatever results have been arrived at, their attainment is due 

 primarily to the co-operation of three members of the company, Dr. 

 T. K. Reed, Jos. H. Borton and F. Helmsley, who have afforded 

 every facility for geological investigation. Credit is also due J. H. 

 Moore, contractor for the first three wells and P. H. & J. Conlin, con- 

 tractors for the fourth well, for much information and for the care they 

 and their assistants have taken to preserve specimens every few feet. 

 These they placed in small dairy salt sacks with Dennison's shipping 

 tags attached, on which they marked the depth and description of 

 material. In scientific circles thanks are due Prof A. Heilprin for 

 valuable assistance in paleontology and geology, to C. Henry Kain 

 and his co-laborer, E. A. Schultze, for authoritative identification of 

 diatoms, to Dr. D. B. Ward of Poughkeepsie, N. Y., for photo-micro- 

 graphs of the same which have aided the author in their study, and to 

 C. L. Peticolas of Richmond, Va., for cleaning and separating the 

 diatoms from numerous specimens of earths. 



Well No. 1 is situated at the S. E. corner of ]\Iichigan and Arctic 

 Avenues ; the other wells are grouped within a radius of 100 feet of 

 each other upon a knoll within the meadows about one-fourth of a mile 

 nearly N. W. of No. 1. 



Well No. 1 was sunk to a depth approximating 1150 feet. At 

 about 1100 feet a plentiful supply of fresh water flowed to five feet 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCICS OF PHILADELrHIA. 133 



or more above the surface. This water since 1887 has been 

 furnished through street mains to many hotels and cottages. 



Well No. 2 was a))audoned at 325 feet, on account of an 

 accident. 



Well No. 3 was then sunk to 1400 feet, or lower, but without 

 success in obtaining water. Drilling was suspended at this point 

 and the pipe is now being withdrawn in the hope of developing 

 some of the water strata that were undoubtedly passed through 

 probably in a partially closed condition.^ 



These three Avells were bored by the process usually used in rock 

 countries by means of the drill and sand pump. The succeeding well. 

 No. 4, was put down by the hydraulic method in Avhich the drill 

 has a hollow body with perforations near the cutting end. To this 

 drill, as the work proceeds, are added section after section of tubing. 

 Down this tubing water is forced by pressure through the per- 

 forations above noted and rising between the tube and the casing 

 flows out at the top, continually carrying mixed Avith it the loosened 

 material from the bottom in finely divided form. This process is 

 much used along the New Jersey coast and is well adapted to soft 

 strata and where no solid rock occurs. 



In well No. 4, water flowing above the surface was found at 328, 

 406, 429 and 554 feet. By pumping, the 328 feet level yielded 

 about 50 gallons a minute, but the 406 feet, only about five gallons. 



The water from each of these, although fresh at first, proved salty 

 on being pumped and these strata were therefore cased off. Owing 

 to the toughness of the clay, the pipe — a ten-inch one — could not be 

 driven further than 424 feet ; the boring was therefore continued 

 without casing, the walls remaining intact W'ithout such support 

 until a total depth of 578 feet was reached. In sand at 429 to 430 feet, 

 a very small flow of fresh water Avas obtained, but at 554 to 560 feet 

 a gray water-bearing sand was pierced, from which, I am informed, 

 there flowed 50 gallons a minute. By pumping, this yield was at 

 once increased to 150 gallons, and afterwards to 200 gallons. This 

 water has now been pumped several weeks. It proves pure and fresh 

 and is pleasant to the taste. 



From well No. 3, there were preserved 184 specimens of earth 

 from as many different depths. These were comj^ared with a care- 

 fully kept record of strata furnished by J. H. Moore and the upper 



' As this article was going to press information was received that a water- 

 bearing stratum was opened at about 720 feet that flowed 10 gallons a minute. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



part collated with 37 additional specimens from well No. 4. From 

 this the accompanying section has been constructed, which it is 

 believed is an accurate representation and grouping of strata. 



Upon the left is a minute description of the various changes in 

 material copied verbatim from a record furnished by J. H. Moore, 

 with the insertion, however, in brackets of the depths of the various 

 water-bearing hoi'izons, as learned from the development of the other 

 wells. Upon the right the section is subdivided so as to show the 

 grouping of the strata into larger beds having certain characteristic 

 features. For convenience, each of these is marked by a letter, and 

 a corresponding letter heads each paragraph relating to the same in 

 the succeeding detailed description. 



A — Underneath 30 feet of ordinary beach sand there exists 15 feet 

 of blue nuid. This was probably the bottom of an old thoroughfare 

 or channel. It contains the usual shells of the coast, the oyster, the 

 clam and the scallop, and also one single minute organism belonging 

 to the foraminifera and identical with the only living species — a 

 No7iionina^no\\ found on the beach. 



B — Beneath this is a series of sands and gravels 220 feet in thick- 

 ness, varying from whitish to yellow in color and alternating from 

 very fine sand to very coarse gravel. 



At 84 to 116 feet and again at 228 feet, these gravels exhibit 

 pebbles containing fossils that show them to be of Devonian and 

 Silurian origin. Similar fossiliferous pebbles are plentiful at Straf- 

 fordville north of Tuckerton, and also in the cuts of both the 

 Camden and Atlantic and the Reading Railroads, at about 14 miles 

 from Atlantic City. All of these localities are about 60 feet above 

 tide. Certain yellow gravels and sands at 135 to 160 feet, may be 

 seen apparently matched on a hill N. E. of EUwood, 120 feet 

 above tide and 21 miles distant. Specimens from the hill and the 

 well are quite undistinguishable. These data indicate a dip of 

 from 12 to not over 15 feet per mile for these gravels. The gravels 

 and underlying white sands of this section are the same respectively 

 as are referred to in the New^ Jersey survey reports as the yellow- 

 gravels and the glass sands. The former have been named by Prof. 

 H. Carvill Lewis, the Glassboro gravels. They are spread over the 

 Atlantic seaboard in this and other States southward and are re- 

 garded by many geologists as Quaternary in age. This section 

 terminates in the well at about 265 feet. 




\ 





1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



C — The dci)th last named marks the passage from these nearly hor- 

 izontal Quaternary strata to the commencement of a long series of 

 INIiocene beds with slightly increased dip. The uppermost bed of 

 this series consists of 118 feet of reddish-brown sand ranging from 

 light to dark in color. 



It contains a dark clay seam at 289 feet and another at 320 feet 

 described as "green clay;" each of these is about 5 feet thick; from 

 beneath the latter the first flow already noted in well No. 4, was 

 obtained. This red sand bed contains wood throughout that was 

 continually brought up by the hydraulic process in very small 

 fragments, otherwise it is nonfossiliferous. 



D — Below these red sands, or from 383 to 658 feet, occurs the most 

 remarkable development of diatomaceous clays yet discovered in 

 the Avorld, being 275 ^ feet in vertical extent. Excepting a few pure 

 sand beds, not over from one to ten feet in thickness, this entire 

 horizon is more "or less made up of this low order of microscopic 

 plants. As might be expected the diatoms of this deposit are marine 

 forms. 



Associated with the diatoms are also a number of sponge spicules, 

 many of them of the pin-head forms that are characteristic of salt 

 water sponges. 



At 540 feet were fouufl a few clam and other shells in fragments, 

 but so worn and broken as to be unidentifiable si^ecifically. One, 

 however, was either a Modiola or a Mytilus. 



This deposit is already especially interesting to microscoj)ists, and 



will become increasingly so until it will attain world-wide publicity. 



On this account a minute description is here inserted : — 



383 to 390, Clay ; 1 t.- i • j- 



o<.A * '>ni o 'i 1 -^ ^ich in diatoms exce])t the sand 



390 to 391, band, pure white ; )■ '■ 



391 to 406, Clay. j '^^'^^■' 

 406 to 410, Gray sand — No diatoms. 



410 to 429, Clay — Moderately rich in diatoms. 



429 to 430, Dark sand — No diatoms. 



430 to 480, Clay — Diatoms associated with about 5 forms of for- 



aminifera and much comminuted shell. 

 480 to 510, Sandy clay — Moderately diatomaceous. 

 510 to 535, Clay — Very rich in diatoms. 



1 Since the preparation of the section, diatoms have been noticed, though very 

 sparingly, in the next lower 20 feet. This would increase the total thickness of the 

 diatom beds to nearly 300 feet. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1^<90. 



535 to 554, Sandy clay — Moderately rich in diatoms. 



554 to 560, Clear gray sand — No diatoms. AVater bearing stratum. 



Kan 4. K^K Altei'nations of pure clays) ^r i r ^ 



obO to 575, ^ •' > More or less diatomaceous. 



and sandy clays. ) 



575 to 600, Sandy clays — Moderately diatomaceous. 

 600 to 620, Brown clay — Rich in diatoms. 

 620 to 632, Brown clay — Diatoms in greatest abundance. 

 632 to 658, Chocolate clay and comminuted shell. Poorly diatoma- 

 ceous. 



The forms from the richest portions at 400, 525 and 625 feet, 

 have been most carefully observed under the microscope and identi- 

 fied by C. Henry Kain and E. A. Schultze. 



They have determined 149 species which are distributed among 

 49 genera. This includes a number of new species, named, described 

 and figured by them in the Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club.^ 

 They are indicated in the following enumeration which includes all 

 so far listed. There will probably, however, be a few forms yet to add. 

 Forms marked rare, are of rare occurrence in the well and not 

 necessarily so elsewhere. 



AcTiNOCYCLUS Ehrenbergii, Ralfs. 



AcTiNOCYCLus suBTiLis, (Grev.) Ralfs. 



AcTiNOCY'CLUs iNTERPUNCTATus, Bright. Rare. 



AcTiNOCYXLus Ralfsii, W. Sm. 



AcTiNoDiscus Atlanticus, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



ACTINOPTY'CHUS aREOLATUS, Ehr. 

 ACTINOPTYXHUS GrUNDLERI, A. S. 



AcTiNOPTY^CHUS SPLENDENS, (Ehr.) Grun. 



AcTiNOPTYCHUs ujsTDULATus, Ehr. var. Halion YX, Grun. Several 

 varieties. 



AcTiNOPTYCHus VULGARIS, Schumau, var. ViRGiNiCA, Grun. 

 Several varieties. 



Amphitetras minuta, Grev. Rare. 



Anaulus birostratus, Grun. Very rare. 



ASTEROLAMPRA Mary'landica, Ehr. 



AuLACODiscus Crux, Ehr. Two varieties. 



Aulacodiscus Petersii, Ehr. 



AuLACODiscus SoLLiTTiANus, Norman. 



AuLiscus Caballi, a. S. 



AuLiscus CffiLATUs, Bailey. 



iVol. xvi, pp. 71 to 76 and pp. 207 to 210; Plates LXXXIX., XCII., and 

 XCIII. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 137 



AuLiscus PRUiNOSUS, Bailey. 



AuLiscus (Glyphodiscus ?) spiNosus, Christian. 



BiDDULPiiiA AURiTA, (Lyngb.) Breb. 



Biddulphia alternans, Christian. 



BiDDULPHiA Baileyi, W. Sm. 



Biddulphia Brittoniana, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



Biddulphia Cookiana, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



Biddulphia Woolmanii, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



Biddulphia decipiens, Gruu. Rare. 



Biddulphia elegantula, Grev. 



Biddulphia pulchella, Gray. Rare. 



Biddulphia rhombus, (Ehr.) W. Sm. 



Biddulphia seticulosa, Grun. 



Biddulphia Tuomeyi, Bailey. 



Biddulphia turgida, (Ehr.) W. Sm. 



Biddui>phia longispina, Grun. 



Biddulphia Weissflogii, Grun. 



Cerataulus (Californicus ? var.) n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



CoccoNEMA LANCEOLATUM, Ehr. Rare. 



GosciNODiscus Argus, Ehr. 



COSCINODISCUS ASTEROMPHALUS, Ehr. 

 COSCINODISCUS CONCAVUS, Ehr. 

 COSCINODISCUS ECCENTRICUS, Ehr. 



COSCINODISCUS ELONGATUS, Grun. 



COSCINODISCUS EXCAVATUS, Grev. Several varieties. 



COSCINODISCUS (ilGAS, Ehr. 

 COSCINODISCUS ISOPORUS, Ehr. 



COSCINODISCUS Lewisianus, Grev. Rare. 

 COSCINODISCUS lineatus, Ehr. 

 COSCINODISCUS Nottinghamensis, Grun. Rare. 

 COSCINODISCUS OcuLus Iridis, Ehr. 



COSCINODISCUS PERFORATUS, Ehr. 

 COSCINODISCUS RADIATUS, Ehr. 



COSCINODISCUS RHOMBicus, Castracane. 

 COSCINODISCUS ROBUSTUS, Grev. 



COSCINODISCUS SENARIUS, A. S. 



COSCINODISCUS SYMMETRicus, Grev. 

 Cestodiscus ovalis, Grev. 

 Cestodiscus RHOMBICUS, Grev. 

 Ch.etoceros (didymus ? Ehr.) 



10 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus, Ehr. 



Craspedodiscus coscinodiscus var. Nankookensis, Grun. 



Cyclotella operculata, Kutz. 



Cymatopleura solea, W. i^m. 



DiCLADIA CAPREOLUS, Ehr. 

 DiSCOPEEA PHYSOPLEA, Ehr. 



DiMEREGRAMMA NovA C^SAREA, 11. sp., Kaiii & Schultze. 

 DiMEREGRAMMA NovA CiESAREA var. OBTUSA, 11. var., Kaiii & 

 Schultze. 



DiMEREGRAMMA FULYUM, (Greg) Ralfs. 



Epithemia Gibba, (Ehr.) Kutz. Rare. 



Ethmodiscus? sp? Castracane. 



Eucampia Virginica, Grun. Rare. 



EuNOTiA monodon, Ehr. Two varieties. 



EuNOTiA ROBUSTA, (Ehr.) Ralfs. Several varieties. 



EuNOTiA Americana, ii. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



EupoDiscus Argus, Ehr. 



Eupodiscus radiatus, Bailey. 



E^UPODiscus RoGERSii, Ehr. Varieties with 3, 4 & 5 processes. 



Eupodiscus sp. ? 



GONIOTHECIUM OBTUSUM, Ehr. 

 GONIOTHECIUM ODONTELLA, Ehr. 

 'GONIOTHECIUM RoGERSII, Ehr. 



Grammatophora SERPENTINA, Ehr. var. Ra»e. 



Hemiaulus affinis, Grun. 



Hemiaulus bipons, (Ehr.) Grun. 



Hemiaulus polycistinorum, Ehr. 



Huttonia Reichardtii, Grun. var. 



Hyalodiscus l.evis, Ehr. 



Hyalodiscus Stelliger, Bailey=(PoDOSiRA maculata, W. 

 Sm.) 



LiRADiscus MiNUTus, Grev. 



Mastogonia Actinoptychus, Ehr, 



Mei,osira sulcata, (Ehr.) Kutz. 



Plagiogramma Gregorianum, Grev. 



Pleurosigma Virginiacum, Peticolas. 



Pleurosigma, Sp. ? Fragments of a very large form allied to P. 

 angulatum. 



PsEUD-AULiscus RADIATUS, Bailey. 



Pyxidicula cruciata, Ehr, 



Rhabdonema Atlanticum, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



Raphidodiscus Febicjerii, T. Christiau. 

 Rhaphoneis gemmifera, Ehr. 

 Rhaphoneis amphiceros, Ehr. 

 Rhaphoneis Belgica, Grun. 

 Rhaphoneis fluminensis, Grun, 

 Rhaphoneis scalaris, Ehr. 

 Rhizosolenia Americana, Ehr. 

 Rhizosolenia styliformis, Bright. 



SCEPTRONEIS CADUCEUS, Ehr. 



Sceptroneis gemmata, Grun. 



Stephanogonia Actinoptychus, Ehr. 



Stephanogonia polygona, Ehr. 



Stephanopyxis apiculata, Ehr. 



Stephanopyxis ferox, (Grev.) Ralfs. 



Stephanopyxis Corona, (Ehr.) Grun. 



Stephanopyxis Grunowii, Grove & Sturt. 



Stephanopyxis limbata, Ehr. Rare. 



Stephanopyxis Turris, (Grev.) Ralfs. 



Stictodiscus Buryanus, Grev. 



Stictodiscus Kittonianus, Grev. 



SuRiRELLA Fe^igerii, Lewis. 



Tabulina testudo, J. Brun. 



Terpsinoe intermedia, Grun. var. 



Triceratium American um, Ralfs. 



Triceratium condecorum, Bright. 



Triceratium Ehrenbergii, Grun. 



Triceratium Ehrenbergii, (Discoplea undulata, Ehr.) 



Triceratium Fisherii, A. S. 



Triceratium Heilprinianum, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



Triceratium Kainii, n. sp., Schultze. 



Triceratium indentatum, n. sp., Kain & Schultze. 



Triceratium Kainii, Schultze, var. constrictum, Kain & 

 Schultze, n. var. 



Triceratium Marylandicum, Bright. 



Triceratium obtusum, Ehr. 



Triceratium robustum, Grev. 



Triceratium semicirculare. Bright. = (Euodia Bright- 

 WELLii, Ralfs.) 



Triceratium spinosum, Bailey. 



Triceratium Solenoceros, Ehr. Rare, 



Triceratium tessellatum, Grev. 



Triceratium undulatum, Ehr. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Tryblionella Hantzschiana, Grim. 



Tryblionella scutellum, W. Sm. 



Many of the forms are found everywhere from top to base of this 

 section. Among these Meloslra sulcata is one of the most frequent. 

 Others are found predominating only at certain horizons ; among these 

 may be noticed a beautiful iridescent, many-rayed disc form, Act'in- 

 ocyclus Ehrenbergii which is chai'acteristically abundant at 625 feet ; 

 it occurs sparingly at 525 feet but is scarcely if at all seen at 400 feet. 



At about 525 feet the genus Rhaphoneis, an elongated form, occurs 

 more frequently than elsewhere and in many varieties. Associated 

 ■with it at this same depth are a number of rare forms heretofore 

 found only in this country in an Artesian well at Cambridge, Md., 

 at a depth of 275 feet, and again in a well at Fortress Monroe at a 

 depth of 558 feet. The general resemblance seen in strewn mounts 

 from Cambridge and Atlantic City is so great as to suggest an exact 

 identity of strata. More light, however, will be needed to definitely 

 settle this point. 



Respecting Rhapho7ieis, the variety of forms grading almost 

 insensibly from one to the other is so great that it is possible to so 

 arrange a dozen or more side by side in a line that differences are 

 not readily appreciable except by skipi:)ing over ijitermediate forms 

 and comparing those some distance apart. In fact, T. Christian has 

 shown me a slide containing 16 such forms from the Cambridge well, 

 and C. Henry Kain has remarked respecting these same forms at 

 Atlantic City, that they " present such variations of structure as to 

 suggest the advisability of decreasing the number of species usually 

 considered as belonging to this genus." 



There is a curious anomaly in connection with a newly described 

 elongated species, Biddulphia Brittoniana, found at 525 feet. In 

 this the two frustules composing one individual and usually present- 

 ing their convex sides outward, have never been observed in 

 that manner, but instead, two frustules separated from different 

 individuals are found with their convex sides inward and fastened 

 together by the interlocking of curiously hooked seta; at both ends 

 of each frustule. 



At 425 feet five foraminiferal forms are associated with the 

 diatoms. After chemical treatment of earth from this depth for the 

 cleaning and sej^aration of the diatoms one species of foraminifera, a 

 Textularia remained intact in the form of a siliceous infernal cast — 

 the shell having been destroyed bv the acids used. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OP^ PHILADELPHIA. 141 



In the sands interbedded between these diatoniaceous clays 

 occur the three lower of the water-producing strata noticed in connec- 

 tion with well No. 4. The upper one as before stated proved un- 

 satisfactory ; the middle gave but a scanty flow, and the lower 

 yielded an abundant supply of water. 



In a letter received by the writer from the late Prof. George H. 

 Cook he says : " I have written the well contractors and also marked 

 on a geological map the location and dip of strata and the depth 

 and location of the wells on the water-bearing stratum from which 

 Atlantic City may reasonably hope to get a supply of good water 

 and have assured them that it should be carefully looked for at 530 

 to 600 feet below sea level," and in a letter to a member of the com- 

 pany he named 577 feet as the probable depth. This came very 

 close to the fact as was afterwards realized. 



In the letter to the writer just quoted he states "that the bored 

 Avells at Barnegat, Harvey Cedars, Weymouth, May's Landing and 

 Pleasant Mills have all the same quality of water, have passed 

 through similar strata, and are on a dip of 25 feet per mile." 



Assuming as probable that the wells at Pleasant Mills and well 

 No. 4 at Atlantic City draw from the same stratum, and measuring 

 the distance between the two locations at right angles to lines drawn 

 through each parallel to the trend of the cretaceous strata we have 

 22 miles. The well at Pleasant Mills is of 34 feet depth below tide. 

 This would make the dip for at least the upper })ortion of the 

 Miocene beds 23 to 24 feet per mile, thus harmonizing wdth the 

 views of the late State Geologist. 



E — Beneath the diatomaceous clays and occupying the next 103 

 feet, or from 658 to 761 feet, occurs a series of fossiliferous beds as fol- 

 lows : 



Chocolate clay, comminuted shell, slightly diatomaceous. See foot- 

 note page 135. 19 



f 5 ft. Green marl full of shelly 

 677 to 700. Fossil ^' 8 ft. Sandy clay full of shell [- . . 23 

 [ 10 ft. Light sand full of shell j 



8 ft. Coarse gravel & sand nonfossiliferous "\ 

 6 ft. Quicksand nonfossiliferous ^ 26 



12 ft. Dark chocolate clay nonfossiliferous 3 



„^„ , -^ ., f 4 ft. Sandv marl and shell ) „. 



/26to iOi. lossili^_» ^ ' 1 VI 1 n ( • • ^^ 



(. 27 ft. Green marl with shell ) 



Tough clav mixed with gravel . . 4 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



These beds are probably the same as the Pliocene shell out- 

 crops at Shiloh and Jericho near Bridgetou, N. J. The lower of the 

 two fossil horizons within this section showing some of the rarer forms 

 found at these localities. The species found here will be again re- 

 ferred to in connection with those from greater depth. 



F — The next interval of 83 feet is occupied by sands, the upper 

 73 feet being reddish-brown in color and much like those above the 

 diatom beds and the lower 13 feet being a gray micaceous quicksand. 



G — Between 844 to 955 feet are included a clay and a marl bed 

 as follows : 



844 to 905. Fossil {^^^^■^"^^^?°^'^*^"^'^y' | ... 61 

 i a fesv fossils at 875 feet. ) 



r Green marl ; lower 2 feet a bed of pon-"^ 

 905 to 955. Fossil < derous oysters so broken by the drill ^ . 55 

 C as to be undeterminable as to species. ) 

 H — The next section from 955 to 1095 feet covers 140 feet of pecu- 

 liar greenish-yellow sands with many streaks of loam of the same 

 color. It contains barnacles throughout, indicating a shallow sea. 

 This was further corroborated by a few shallow water mollusks at 

 about 1000 feet. 



I — From 1095 to 1225 a series of 130 feet includes two marl beds 

 and is best described thus : 



1095 to 1126, { Dark greenish-gray clay ; j ^ ^ 3^ 



( abundance of foraminitera. j 



1126 to 1146, Dark green marl. 20 



1146 to 1170, Dark green marly clays 24 



1170 to 1225, Fossil, | ^^^^ ^^^'^^ S'^^" ""'^'^ ' ^''"''^'^'' ] 55 

 L granulata ?it IISO feet. ) 



From this point downward, as far as the boring continued, to 1,400 

 feet or thereabout, is one continuous bed of tough clay, light to dark 

 slate in color and containing multitudes of foraminifera especially 

 in the lighter colored clays. 



There are also from this bed a few mollusks and quite a number 

 of specimens of deep sea corals belonging to the genus Flaeocyathus 

 very similar to an undescribed form from the Miocene deposits of 

 San Domingo and now in the Academy's collection. 



The life forms of this division indicate a deepening sea. The fora- 

 minifera very closely resemble species described in 1846, by 

 d'Orbigny from the Miocene clays around Vienna. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Forms representing at least 14 genera occur in all the clays be- 

 low 1,095 feet while about five of the same generic forms have been 

 observed between 430 to 480 feet. The genera are as follows : — 



Nodosaria, Dentalina, Cristellaria, Robulina, Nonionina, Rota- 

 Una, Rosa/lna, Bulemlna, Uvigerlna, Amphistigina, Guttulina, Bil- 

 oculina, Triloculina and Textularia. 



It now remains to enumerate the fossils, excepting the microscopic , 

 ones already listed. Although generally in very fragmentary con- 

 dition, it has been possible to name 82 species of mollusks, exclusive 

 of 8 forms determinable by genera only. Besides the mollusks there 

 were representatives of eleven other life forms, among them a few 

 varieties of corals and a bone belonging to an animal of the 

 crocodilian order. Identifications of all the fossils, excepting the 

 microscopic, have been very kindly made by Prof. A. Heilprin. 

 Specimens obtained from both wells No. 1 and No. 8 are included. 

 In those from No. 3 the depth where each was found is given ; in 

 No. 1 this is not known. Of the 41 molluscan forms from well 

 No. 1 and noted in the Academy's Proceedings for 1889, all but 12 

 were again found in well No. 3. 



The list is as follows : 



Anomia probably ephippium. 



Arca centexaria. 



A RCA subrostrata, 682. 



Arca (idonea?) 



Arca lienosa, 725. 



Arca plicatura. 



Artemis acetabulum. 



ASTARTE obruta, 682. 



ASTARTE PERPLANA, 700. 



AsTAKTE Thomasii, 875. 



AsTARTE CUNEIFORMIS, 695. 



AsTARTE compsonema, 725, 875. 

 Amphidesma subreflexa, 750. 

 Cardita granulata, 682, 750, 885, 1180. 

 Cardita arata. 

 Cardium creticuloides "I 



or LEPTOPLEURA, j 



Cardium laqueatum, 700. 

 Corbula cuneata, 750. 

 Corbula idonea, 700. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



CORBULA ELEVATA, 752. 

 CORBULA SP. ? 900. 



Chama congregata, 700, 750. 

 Crassatella melina. 

 Cytherea 8P.? 



DONAX VARIABILIS. 

 . GOULDIA LUNULATA Or AsTARTE, 1350. 

 LUCINA TRISULCATA, 752. 

 LUCINA CRENULATA, 752, 875, 1350. 

 LlTCINA FOREMANI, 695-730. 



Mactra lateralis, 682, 752. 

 Mytiloconcha incurva. 

 Mytilus incrassatus, 682, 752. 

 Mysia acclinis, 752. 

 nucula 0bliqua=proxima, 730. 

 Ne^ra sp., 1335. 



OsTREA Mauricensis, 682. 



(182,725. I 



OSTREA sp., ^^ 955^ jQ()Q I 



Pecten Madisonius, 682, 750. 

 Pecten Humphreysii, 677, 700. 

 Pecten vicenarius. 

 Pecten Marylandica, 726, 1000. 

 Pecten comparilis. 

 Pectunculus parilis, 726. 

 Pectunculus lentiformis, 752. 

 Perna maxillata, 682, 750. 

 Saxicava arctica, 740. 

 Tellina subreflexa. 

 Tellina declivis, 752. 

 YoLDiA or Leda, 752. 

 VoLvuLA or Bulla, 1380. 

 Venus altilaminata 682, 730. 

 Venus sp.? 687, 750. 



DiSCINA lugubris, 

 Cerithium sp.? 875. 



CoLUMBELLA (AmYCLA) COMMUNIS, 740. 



Cylichna sp. ? 



Crepidula sp. ? 690, 750. 



Dentalium sp. ? 690. 




Proc.AcHd.Nat.Sci.Phila. 1390. 



Plate I. 







"fllsbry del. 



PILSBRY ON AEROPE AND PUPA. 





1890.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 145 i 



Dentalium dentalis, 1400. 1 



FuLGUR Shiloiiensis, 730. 



FuLGUR sp.? G82, 750, 875. ; 



Fusus devexa, 726. | 



Murex Shilohensis, 730. 



Natica catenoides, 677, 756, 875. 



Natica duplicata, 690, 750. ' 



Neptunea migrans, 875. '• 



Neptunea sp. ? 730. 



Oliva canaliculata,=Carolinensis, 695, 726. 



PeRISTERNIA FILICATA, 730. 



Pleurotoma Marylandica, 890. \ 



Pleurotoma pseudeburnea, 740. T/\ ' 



Pleurotoma limatula ? 875. - ^ ' 



Petaloconchus sculpturatus, 1000. \ 



Turritella Cumberlandia, 682. ! 



turritella ^quistriata, 752. ' 



Turritella plebeia, 677. 



Turritella indenta ? 



Turritella secta, 875, 900, 1400. 



Turbinella Woodi. 



Tritia trivitata, 726, 875. 



Tritia peralta, 875. 



Tritia obsoleta. 



Trochita centralis, 695, 750. 



Turbo eboreus, 750. 



Terebra indenta, 730. 



Terebra simplex, 690, 730. 



r Placocyathus. 

 Coral -| AsTREA. 



( Dendrophy'llia. 



f Lamna tooth. 



„. , Odontaspis tooth. 

 h ish -' _ , 



Mylobates tooth. 



I Fish scale. 



Gavial — Tooth. 



Crocodilian Bone — Femur or humerus. 



EcHiNoiD spines. 



OpERCULA of GASTEROPODS. 



Crustaceans | Manacles, Balanus 

 ( Crab's claws. 

 11 




146 PROCEEDIN(iS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Of the molluscan forms named above whose depth is known, 54 

 were from the two fossiliferous beds included between 677 and 757 

 feet. Of these 37 were found in the lower of the two divisions — 10 

 of these and 17 others making together 27, Avere found in the upper 

 of the two divisions. Of the forms in both divisions, 26 have been 

 found at Shiloh and Jericho, and include several species especially 

 characteristic of these localities and j^robably belong to the same 

 bed. 



Five of the above and nine others wei'e found at 875 feet, viz : — 



ASTARTE ThOMASII. 



AsTARTE CoMPSONEMA. Also at 725 feet. 

 Cardita granulata. Also 677 to 757 and below. 

 Cerithium. 



CORBULA. 

 FULGUR. 



LiTciNA CRENULATA. Also 757 and below. 

 Lyrosoma sulcosa. Also lower. 

 Natica catenoides. Also 677 to 756. 

 i^eptunea migrans. 

 Pleurotoma Marylandica. 

 Pleurotoma limatula. Also lower. 



TURRITELLA SECTA. 



'Tritia trivittata. Also 725. 



The following three shallow water species were obtained at about 

 1000 feet in association with Balanus. 



OSTREA. 



Pecten Marylandica. 

 Petalaconchas sculpturatus. 



Cardita granulata occurred at 1180 feet also at 875 feet and in 

 both divisions of the horizon, between 677 to 757 feet. 



In the tough clay bed below 1335 feet were the following: 

 Dentalium dentalis. 



GOULDIA LIMATULA Or AsTARTE. 



LuciNA CRENULATA. Also higher. 



Ly^rosoma sulcosa. Also at 875. 



Ne^era sp. ? 



Pecten comparilis. 



turritella secta. 



VoLVULA or Bulla. 



To these should be added the coral (Placocyathus) before noted. 




1890.] XATUKAL .SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



The evidence as to the sections from .383 feet to 1225 feet, Avhere 

 the bottom of the very dark green marl bed is reached, is preponder- 

 atingly in favor of Miocene age for these strata. 



In view of the lack of distinctive Eocene fossils below that depth 

 the occurrence of Placocyathns and the still decided Miocene aspect 

 of the few molluscan remains, it may be concluded that the boring 

 has not yet passed through the Miocene. 



The occurrence of Turritella plebeia and Pecten Hwnphreysii in 

 these wells, and of Turritella plebeia in a well at Cape May Point at 

 a dejith of about 400 feet, would indicate for the u])per portion a 

 INIiddle INIiocene age, while all below would be Lower iNIiocene. 



Reference has already been made to the dip of the yellow gravel 

 and of the diatomaceous clays, the latter being placed at 23 to 24 

 feet per mile. The shell marl at Shiloh outcrops about 60 feet above 

 tide, and the distance between parallel lines of strike for Shiloh and 

 the well'i^ 35 miles. The bottom of what is probably the correspond- 

 ing shell stratum in the well is at 757 feet. A calculation ])ased on 

 these data gives 23 feet to the mile as the dip for the Shiloh beds. 



The water from Winslow well, and from Atlantic City Well No. 1 

 at 1100 feet, are of the same quality as proved by analysis. This favors 

 their being from the same stratum. Winslow is distant 30 miles and 

 the depth of the well thei-e below tide is 215 feet. Based on these figures 

 the dip of strata in that portion of the well is 29 to 30 feet per mile ; 

 this increase of dip is probal)ly correct. In fact when we take into 

 consideration the greater thickness seaward of the sands and clays 

 in the lower jiortions of the well, together with the oscillations of sea 

 level as shown by the character of the fossils, these being alternately 

 shallow sea and deep sea forms, it is quite likely we shall yet find a 

 still greater increase of dip for the base of the Miocene. 



The results of this examination indicate a greater thickness for 

 the Miocene deposits of the southern part of the State than has 

 generally been held by geologists, and as a consequence increases the 

 heretofore estimated dip of the underlying Cretaceous and Eocene 

 beds in that section of the State. 



These INIiocene shell and diatom l)eds are no doubt closely related 

 to beds of similar character and of the same age in Maryland and 

 Virginia. The author is not however at present able to trace any 

 one stratum continuously. The diatomaceous clays at Atlantic 

 City occur above beds containing Perna, while in the States just 

 named similar clays occur below Perna beds. That there are several 

 Perna beds would seem to be the solution of this problem. This 

 however remains vet to be demonstrated. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



April 1. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 One hundred and twelve persons present. 



The deaths of John Jordan Jr. and Frederick Graff, members, 

 were announced. 



Mr. Theo. D. Rand gave before the ]Mineralogical and Geological 

 Section the substance of his paper on " The Serpentines of South- 

 eastern Pennsylvania, " with lantern illustrations. 



April 8. 

 Mr. Gavin W. Hart in the chair. 

 Seveliteen persons present. 



April 15. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



Variatio7is in Bidimus exilis. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp called 

 attention to two varieties of Bnlimus exilis which he had found on 

 the islands of Guadeloupe and Dominica. One variety was charac- 

 terized by broad dark brown bands, which run parallel with the 

 coil of the shell ; while the other was peculiar in possessing small 

 and very faint bands, which in many specimens were entirely absent. 

 The banded variety was found to be common in Guadeloupe, while 

 the bandless one was rare. In Dominica, which is separated from 

 Guadeloupe by a channel of only twenty-three miles, the banded 

 variety was very rare, while the light or loandless one was compara- 

 tively common, although individuals were by no means so common 

 in Dominica as in Guadeloupe. He spoke of the probable cause 

 of the variation and suggested that it was due to some environ- 

 mental action. The island of Dominica being wholly of volcanic 

 origin, w^ould produce a different kind of food from the Grande 

 Terre portion of Guadeloupe, which in formation is purely coral. 

 It was on this portion of Guadeloupe that the specimens of B. 

 exilis were collected. It is known that Dominica has mauy species 

 and some genera of plants that are peculiar to the island, and this 

 difference of food may in some way account for the differences in 

 this species of land snail. Dr. Sharp said that it is probable that 

 the dearth of laud shells on the volcanic islands and their corapara- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 149 



tive plenty on the coral and continental islands of the Caribbean 

 group is due to the absence of carbonate of lime in the former and 

 its presence in the latter. 



Hemarks on the exuviae of snakes. — Dr. Benjamin Sharp further 

 spoke on the exuviae of two snakes, Avhich were shed in the labora- 

 tory of the Academy two days previously. These snakes, Eutameia 

 sirtalis, B. & G., had been presented to the Academy on the 19th 

 of March, 1890, and had been captured the day before in New 

 Jersey. The whole process of shedding the skin had been observed. 

 One of the snakes was in the water when first seen, and coming out 

 upon the sod it shrugged and shook itself for a moment ; then getting 

 between the glass of the vivarium and the box containing the earth, 

 the skin parted at the jaws and the animal crawled out leaving the 

 exuvia. The cerebral portion being fixed, the animal passed through 

 the opening, so that the discarded skin, as is always the case, was 

 turned wrong side out. One of the specimens was interesting as it 

 was entirely perfect, without the slightest rent and not a scale missing. 

 The other was perfect, but there was a considerable rent on 

 each side of the jaw. The operation took less than one -minute. 

 The snake was startled about the middle of the process. It 

 crawled away from the exuvia very rapidly. 



April 22. 

 ]\Ir. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-three persons present. 

 The following were presented for jiublication : — 

 " New East Indian Land Shells." By H. A. Pilsbry. 

 " Description of a new species of Helix." By John Ford. 



April 29. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The folloAving were elected members : — 

 Abraham Barker, William K. Shryock and Walter Conrad. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



SYNOPSIS OF AMERICAN CARBONIC CALYPTR^ID^. 



BY CHARLES R. KEYES. 



There has always been a considerable diversity of opinion as to 

 what term should really be applied to that paleozoic group of 

 gasteropodous shells commonly referred, by most American writers, 

 to Platyceras of Conrad. The described species of this group have 

 been variously and indifferently assigned to Capulus Montfort,^ 

 Fileopsis Lamarck,' Actita Fisher von Waldheim,^ Platyceras Con- 

 rad,* Acroculia Phillips,^ OHhonychiaHaW and some other genera. 

 Of these Capulus and Platyceras have become at last generally 

 adojDted ; the former having preference with most European, and 

 the latter with the majority of American authors. 



Generic Considerations. It may be premised here that the two 

 genera just mentioned are practically coextensive ; and since the 

 first has precedence — of more than thirty years — it should be used 

 instead of the second. Even if the group to which Conrad gave the 

 name Platyceras is a valid one it is very questionable whether the 

 term could stand, inasmuch as it has been preoccupied for three- 

 quarters of a century. It has long been known that Geoffrey in 

 1764 proposed for a genus of coleoptera the name Platyceras, a term 

 which was later employed by Latreille * and which continues to the 

 present day in good usage as originally proposed. Taking advantage 

 of this fact OEhlert '■' has recently revived Phillips' name Acroculia 

 for the Platyceras group of shells ; but this of course cannot i)e 

 adopted. 



As regards the actual generic characters of the various species, 

 their specific limitations, range of variation and the distribution in 

 time and space of the different varieties, greater confusion has, 



1 Conch. System., vol. II, p. 54. (1810.) 



2 Anim. sans Vertebr., t. VI, (2), p. 16. (1822.) 



3 Mem. de la Soc. imp. d. Naturalistes de Moscau, t. VI, p. 234. (1823.) 

 * Ann. Rep. N. Y. Gaol. Sur., p. 205. (1840.) 



5 Palte. Fobs. Cornwall, p. 93. (1841.) 



6 Rept. 4th Dist. N. Y., p. 172. (1843.) 

 "> Hist, abregee des Insectes, 1764. 



8 Precis des caracteres des Insectes, 1796. 



9 Bill, de la Soc. Geol. de France, (3), t. XI, p. 602. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 151 



perhaps, nowhere existed among fossil uiollusks than in tlie group 

 under consideration. This utter hick of agreement among Avriters is 

 directly traceable to a number of causes : the majority of the species 

 have been described from very few or single specimens, with little 

 regard to tlie forms already known ; no attention whatever was paid 

 to variability and indeed the range of the latter has only very lately 

 been made out with any degree of certainty ; comparisons with in- 

 dividuals from localities more or less widely distant have been made 

 only in excei^tional cases. 



General Features. The leading characters of generic value in 

 modern Capulus, as shown by the more typical shells, as C. humjar- 

 icus Linne, are the obliquely conical shape, the small, often closely 

 incurved or coiled spire, the broad campanulate aj)ertural portions 

 and the peculiar horse-shoe-shaped muscular impressions. In the 

 paleozoic forms heretofore referred to Platyeeras these features have 

 been made out most clearly in C. paralius (AV. & W.) and C. equi- 

 latendia (Hall) ; though the affinities are not less striking in many 

 other species. 



In a group of more than three hundred described paleozoic spe- 

 cies having so few salient characters for classification and such a great 

 range of variation as the forms assigned ta Platyeeras it is hard to 

 foresee the difficulties in attempting to arrange satisfactorily the manv 

 different forms. The genus may ultimately admit of a suitable separa- 

 tion into several more or less well marked subdivisions ; and the many 

 forms make such an arrangement very desirable. It can, however, 

 only be accomplished after a careful and critical revision of the en- 

 tire group. The placing of Platyeeras, OrtJionychia, etc., as sub- 

 genera under Oipulm, as has been done by ZitteP and others, man- 

 ifestly does not meet the requirements, at least in so far as the Amer- 

 ican species are concerned. It is probable that all of the described 

 Platycei-ata cannot be included under Capulus. Just which ones, re- 

 mains for future comparisons to decide. There seems to be good 

 ground for believing that further study will show that a number of 

 the paleozoic forms in question belong more properly to genera closely 

 allied to Capulus rather than to Capulus itself. This would carry back 

 the antiquity of certain modern genera farther than has hitherto been 

 considered possible, A recent critical examination of certain des- 

 cribed Platycerata also discloses that they belong to families entirely 

 difterent from those supposed. 



1 Handbuch der Pal?eontologie, II Band, p. 210. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1890. 



General Relations. There is often considerable embarrassment in 

 attempting to separate certain paleozoic Capnli, on the one hand from 

 some forms of Platysfoma, especially from those species in which 

 there is a greater or less tendency for the shells to nncoil ; and on 

 the other hand from various genera of Patelloid shells. As might 

 be expected in a group of gasteropods presenting so few constant 

 characters, which can be satisfactorily relied upon as classificatory 

 criteria, it is often impossible to clearly distinguish between certain of 

 these species. Many structural features long regarded as of much 

 importance in identification have recently ^ been shown to possess 

 very little, if any, specific value, owing to their great variability. It 

 has therefore become necessary to consider as of the utmost signifi- 

 cance, the basing of species upon general resemblances rather than 

 upon unimportant varient characters arising from the diverse 

 conditions of environment imposed by a more or less extensive geo- 

 graphic and geologic distribution. Therefore in choosing for classi- 

 ficatory purposes the characters of any group it is evident that only 

 those features exhibiting the least tendency to modification are 

 available. Even the most constant structures appear to lose much 

 of their stability at some period during the existence of the group — 

 whether specific, generic or family ; while other characters more or 

 less variant in the earlier stages of development, later become less 

 liable to change. At some time these features blend and thus appear 

 the transitional forms. It may be assumed, then, that in many 

 groups of the same genetic origin some varieties will present features 

 that have remained for a long time practically unmodified ; w^hile 

 others exhibit the same characters in a highly specialized, but ever 

 changing condition. And it is of great interest to note that the 

 latter — those having greatly exaggerated features — are the forms 

 wiiose existence is of comparatively short duration ; and that with 

 these intensified structures the development is rather rapid, while 

 their culmination results in a great diminution of the gi'oup's 

 vitality, or more commonly its extinction. 



Number of Species. Among the first to notice the existence of 

 Carbonic Capuli in the continental interior were Yandell and Shu- 

 mard, who called attention to the association of a species with an 

 Acrocrmus (afterwards described by the former author as A. shu- 

 viardi). These writers attempted to prove that the crinoids were 

 carnivorous in their habits, and that they subsisted on moUusks. 



1 Keyes : Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. XXV, p. 231. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15o 



Capulus acutirostris, however, was the first species of this group of 

 gasteropods described from the Carbonic rocks of tlie Mississippi 

 basin ; and was so denominated by Hall in 185fi. The publication 

 of this diagnosis was followed in quick succession by definitions of 

 other forms by Stevens, Hall, Swallow, McChesney, Winchell, White 

 and Whitfield, and Meek and AVorthen ; so that the total number 

 of species that have been brought to notice from the carbonic rocks 

 of North America is more than two score. A part of this number 

 are, however, to be regarded as synonyms, reducing the actual num- 

 ber of species as now recognized nearly one-half. 



I. Habits of the Carbonic Calyptr^eans. 



Variation in Form. It has been noted frequently in the descrip- 

 tions of various paleozoic species of Capulus that the shells often pre- 

 sent a more or less well-defined quinquelobate appearance and 

 that the apertural margins are for the most part sinuous or crenate. 

 In the absence of salient classificatory characters these features 

 were regarded usually of much importance for specific distinction. 

 It was not until a comparatively recent date that their true 

 significance was indicated. The fact here referred to is the attach- 

 ment of fossil Capuli to foreign bodies and particularly to the 

 calyces of crinoids. The observations on this habit of the ancient 

 Capuli has been fully considered elsewhere but may be here briefly 

 summarized by stating that, in all the examples examined — upwards 

 of sevei'al hundreds — (1) the gasteropod shell invariably lies over 

 the anal opening of the crinoid ; (2) the mollusk remained in this 

 position for a considerable period, probably for the greater part of 

 life, as is shown by the shells on highly ornamented calyces and by 

 the removal of them from their places of attachment and tracing the 

 growth of the shell by the concentric grooves made on the ventral 

 plates ; (3) the growing shell followed closely the inequalities of the 

 surface upon Avhich it rested — depressions giving rise to furrows and 

 protuberances to folds or nodes ; and (4) shells simply lying on flat 

 surfaces are much more depressed and proportionally broader than 

 those clinging to the vertical or inclined portions of calyces in which 

 the anal opening is situated laterally. The third of these statements 

 is perhaps best illustrated by crinoids having low interradial areas 

 and elevated radial regions and is the probable explanation of the 

 frequent occurrence ofthe more or less distinctlyfive-lobed calyptrsean 



1 Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. xxv, 1888. 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



shells. Heretofore this pheuomeuon has admitted of no direct causal 

 iuterpretation. 



Attachment to Crinolds. The adherence of gasteropods of the 

 genus under consideration to fossil crinoids was at first thought to 

 furnish conclusive evidence of the carnivorous habits of the Crin- 

 oidea ; and inasmuch as it was at that time considered that the aper- 

 ture in the vault was the mouth, this explanation seemed very plaus- 

 ible. Consequently the conclusion was very naturally reached that 

 the criuoid, when it perished, was in the act of devouring the raol- 

 lusk. jNIeek and Worthen^ appear to be the first to question the prev- 

 alent opinions regarding the intimate association of crinoid and 

 gasteropod ; and to suggest that the mollusk was, in all probability, 

 stationed on the echinoderm for a protracted period, perhaps even 

 for the greater portion of its life. But notwithstanding the fact that 

 the univalve was almost invariably situated over the ventral aper- 

 ture, and that this opening was recognized as the anus, these writers 

 do not seem to entertain for a moment the idea that the gasteropod 

 may have been nourished upon the refuse matter from the crinoid. 

 The latter view more recently has been preferred by Wachsmuth and 

 is now favorably received by other paleontologists. In every instance 

 of the several hundred specimens lately examined the calyptnean 

 covers the anal opening of the crinoid ; and, so far as observable, it 

 is always the anterior portion of the molluscan shell that is directed 

 toward the vault aperture. In those examples where the shell has 

 been removed its impression made on the ventral surface shows that 

 the anterior margin of the peristome was at the edge of the opening 

 in the dome — a .position that would have brought the mouth of the 

 mollusk directly over the anus of the crinoid. From an examina- 

 tion of the concentric markings made by the molluscan shell on the 

 vaults of Strotocrinus (Plate II, fig. 7) and some other genera, it 

 appears that the forward end of the Capulus was always stationary 

 at the margin of the dome opening ; and that, as the growth of the 

 shell continued the posterior portion was removed farther and farther 

 from the ventral aperture of the crinoid. 



The food of recent crinoids consists chiefly of animalcules and 

 microscopic plants and the living Calyptrseidse subsist on food of a 

 similar nature. From analogy it might be inferred that the food of 

 fossil crinoids and mollusks must have been like their modern rep- 

 resentatives. So far as the echinoderms are concerned there seems 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1868, p. 340, e^ se,/. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 155 



to be no serious objections to this inference. But with the uni- 

 valves their position throuy-h life indicates that their sustenance was, 

 in great part at least, of a somewhat different character. 



The anatomy of the crinoid and the position of the molluscan 

 shell are not in accord with the supposition that the calyptnean may 

 in anv way have been nourished on the food of the crinoid. This 

 woiiUl im[)ly that the gasteropod was parasitic in its habits, a view 

 wliich, though held by most writers, does not appear to be structur- 

 ally substantiated. While no doubt the Capulus derived the greater 

 part of its food from excrementitious matter, nourishment from other 

 sources may also have been obtained and in all probability it was 

 very similar to that of the crinoids and the living Calyptrajida^. 

 Furthermore there does not seem to be the slightest indication that 

 the crinoid was in any manner inconvenienced by the attachment 

 of the gasteropod, except, perhaps, in a few cases where the mollus- 

 can shell had encircled the posterio-lateral arms, Avhich were in 

 consequence slightly pressed outward. The only really noticeable 

 effect of the presence of Capulus on the crinoid is a comparatively 

 shallow depression or groove on some of the vault plates — marking 

 the position of the shell lip ; though in the majority of specimens 

 even this feature is not well pronounced (Plate II, figs. 6 and 7). 

 There are no grounds for the view advanced by TrautschohP in re- 

 gard to Cromyocrinus st«ip^e.i'Trauts. and its adhering Capttlus para- 

 siticus Tvsxnts. from the loAver Carbonic of Russia. He says: " Es 

 ist nicht unmoglich, dass der oben beschriebene cylindrische Pro- 

 cessus der Analplatten zum Schutz gegeu diese Verfolger des (V. 

 simj)lex aufgebaut ist." The " cylindrical jDrocess" here referred to is 

 manifestly a ventral sac and therefore was not caused by the pres- 

 ence of the gasteropod. 



Illustrative Examples. In some crinoids, as Gilbertsocrinus, the 

 plates of the vault are more or less convex or nodose. This nodosity 

 of the ventral plates reaches a high development in such forms as 

 G. tuberosue Lyon and Casseday, from Crawfordsville, Indiana. 

 Nearly one-half of the known individuals of this species have a 

 gasteropod adhering. The specimens illustrate well the adaptation 

 of the apertural margin of the shell to the irregularities of the 

 crinoid al surface, for it is clearly observable, as first pointed out by 

 ]\Ieek and Worthen, that the contact of the gasteropod shell and 

 crinoid is not the result of accidental pressure, but that the moUusk 



1 Die Kalkbriiche von Mjatsclikowa, p. IIS. 




156 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



adhered to the surface of the crinoid for a considerable period, as is 

 shown by the sinuosities of the peristome corresponding exactly to 

 the inequalities of the surface beneath. In young shells the 

 sinuosities of the apertural margin are comparatively much more 

 pronounced than in older individuals. Many of the latter exhibit 

 much irregularity in the lines of growth, which might at first appear 

 to be due to a change of station, but closer inspection shows that 

 this is not the case. When the plates of the crinoidal vault are no- 

 dose, as in Gilbertsoerinus tuberosus, the lines of growth in adult 

 shells, contrary to the more usual manner among gasteropods gener- 

 ally, are far from being even approximately parallel to one another ; 

 and in the lip of the shell a sinus caused by a nodose plate at one 

 period of growth may be represented in the next by a projecting 

 lobe which extended into a deep depression between the nodes 

 of two contiguous plates. 



In considering the structural peculiarities of the calyptrtean shell 

 three features — the general form, the configuration of the aperture, 

 and the surface markings — appear to have been susceptible of con- 

 siderable modification as the result of the sedentary habits of the 

 mollusk. An examination of a large series of certain species of 

 Capulus reveals the fact that the variant tendency in all three of these 

 particulars is much greater than might be supposed ; and when the 

 attachment of these gasteropods to foreign bodies is taken into con- 

 sideration the causes for such varietal development become manifest. 

 It has been shown that the mollusk doubtless remained fixed 

 throughout a greater portion of life, and that the surface upon which 

 it first settled determined in great part both the form of the shell 

 and the shape of its aperture. When the surface of attachment was 

 flat, as in the vaults of Gilbertsoerinus and Stroiocrinus, the 

 molluscan shell was greatly depressed and the peristome ample ; but 

 when the foreign body was strongly convex the shell was more 

 conical, with a comparatively much smaller aperture. It has been 

 stated elsewhere that, in regard to the second of the three variant 

 features observable in the calyptra^an shell, the margin of the per- 

 istome partakes of all the inequalities of the surface to which the 

 gasteropod adheres. Few of the species attached to crinoids may be 

 said to have true surface ornamentation, for the longitudinal folds 

 or jilications in the shell are in many cases due chiefly to the char- 

 acter of the surface of attachment. In some specimens of Capulus 

 injundibulum (M. & W.) there have been noticed, in addition to the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



undefinedlonffitiidinal folds, several series of small couspicuous nodes; 

 but these in all examples seem to result from the peculiar nodose or- 

 namentation of Platycrimis hemisphericus with which the univalves 

 are associated. 



It appears, then : (1) that some, if not the majority, of the ancient 

 Capuli were stationary during life ; (2) that the nourishment of many 

 of these sedentary gasteropods was derived, in great part at least, from 

 the excrementitious matter from crinoids ; and (3) that the form of 

 the peristome and its marginal configuration, being dependent upon 

 the surface of attachment, have small value as characters for specific 

 distinction. 



The Carbonic species of Capulus in which sedentary habits are 

 positively known from the attachment of the gasteropods to echi- 

 noderms, together with the various species of crinoids intimately as- 

 sociated, are given in the accompanying synoptical table, page 158. 



Range of Variability. Among modern gasteropods attention of 

 late has been called frequently to the variation in the form of the 

 shell as the result of differences in the local conditions of station. In 

 the extension of this inquiry to fossil groups many difficulties are 

 met with, among which the most formidable, perhaps, is the inability 

 to obtain enough material for an adequate consideration of the 

 subject. Usually the shells of any one species are not abundant 

 locally, nor is the representation from localities, more or less widely 

 separated geographically, sufficient to permit of satisfactory com- 

 parisons. Lately Capulus has unexpectedly furnished a very interest- 

 ing series illustrating the range of variation in several species. The 

 comparison is perhaps most striking in the projection of ten speci- 

 mens of Capulus equilateralis as recently ^ graphically represented. 

 The case referred to is only a single one of many to be found among 

 the raollusca. It is very significant in its bearing upon the true 

 basis of species ; and indicates plainly that, in attempting to separate 

 specimens specifically, too much stress should not be j^laced upon in- 

 dividual characters. 



Other Causes of Variation. In connection with variation of species 

 it is of great interest to note the apparent effect of gravitation in 

 altering the form of some gasteropod shells. This phase can be more 

 satisfactorily considered in Capulus equilateralis and C. infundihulum 

 than in most other species, because w'hen attached to the vaults of 



1 Variation exhibited by a Carbonic Gasteropod, Am. Geol., vol. Ill, June, 

 1889. 




158 proceedings of the academy of [1890. 



Synoptical Table of Crinoids and Associated Capull 



Crinoids. 



cf^ 



Gilbertsocrinus tuberosus. 



Gilbertsocrinus typus. 



Actinocrinus verrucosus. 



Physetocrinus ventricosus. 



Strotocrinus regalis. 



Dorycrinus immahirus. 



Agaricocrinus americanus. 



Eucladocrimis millebrachiatus. 



Arthroacaniha p'undobrachiata. 



Pterotocvimis acutiis. 



Pterotocrinus depressus. 



Pterotocrinus bifurcatus. 



Poteriocrinus coceinus. 



Platycrinus hemisphericus. 



Platycrinus pileijormis. 



Acrocrinus shumardi. 



Cromyoerinus simplex. 



Marsupiocrinus ccelatus. 



Melocrinus globosus. 



Pentremifes godoni. 




1890.] NATL'RAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



crinoids the station of each individual is definitely known. As stated 

 already, the firstofthese formsgenerally rests on flat-vaulted crinoids ; 

 while the second connnonly adheres laterally to such echinoderms as 

 Platycrinns hem isphericus. Cajmlus eqmlatercd'is when occupying the 

 same position is pendant, the apex of the shell being directed down- 

 ward instead of in the opposite direction as when resting on the 

 ventral surface of such species as Gilbertsocrimis. The shell thus 

 pendant exhibits a decided tendency to straighten, or uncoil, con- 

 sequently becoming longer, the apex freeing itself completely from 

 the body whorl. In comparison, therefore, with a representative 

 example of C. equilateralis those shells resting on flat eriuoidal vaults 

 are very much depressed, the aperture proportionally broader and 

 the spire more closely coiled. Those individuals attached laterally 

 to crinoids have a tendency to become more conical, the aperture 

 being relatively smaller, while the spire is entirely free from the last 

 volution and the apex often extends to a considerable distance be- 

 yond the posterior margin of the aperture. 



On the other hand Capulus infundihulum is commonly a mure or 

 less elongate conic shell. AVhen attached to Platycrinus it often 

 assumes a very different aspect. As growth proceeds the posterior 

 side becomes relatively shorter, the apex slightly curved backwards 

 and not unfrequently there is a marked tendency toward a strongly 

 arcuate form. 



II. Geographic and Geologhc Distribution. 



General Considerations. The Calyptrteidre are widely distributed 

 both in space and time. The earliest appearance of this group of 

 gasteropoda is in the Calciferous strata of the Lower Silurian. From 

 this time onward its development is rather rajDid, and attains a 

 considerable expansion in the upper paleozoic, where in numerical 

 representation, size and variety of form it is rather remarkable. 

 There is then a gradual and general decline toward the close of the 

 paleozoic. The ancient Capuli are confined chiefly to Europe and 

 North America, though two forms have been described from the 

 Carbonic rocks of Australia. During Silurian and Devonian times 

 New York seems to have been the great center of the development 

 of this group ; while in the interior of the American continent these 

 gasteropods did not become common until the beginning of the Car- 

 bonic. 



Range of American Species. Relative to the geographic and 

 geologic distribution of the American species of Capulus during 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Carbonic times the results thus far reached have been merely 

 suggestive. In other zoological groups the evidence has been much 

 more satisfactory of a reasonable co-ordination of the vertical and 

 horizontal ranges of the various species, especially in the Carbonic 

 strata of the ]\Iississippi basin. In general* the question of geo- 

 graphical distribution during geological time has appeared to elicit 

 but little attention, partly, perhaps, by reason of the many difficulties 

 encountered in such investigations ; and partly on account of in- 

 sufficient material for intelligent comparisons. It is now known 

 that many species, though perhaps originally described under sevei-al 

 different names, have a much wider geographical and geological dis- 

 tribution than has been supposed. Several of these species have 

 already been indicated ^ ; and it is certain that an extended study 

 of the forms belonging to the various zoological groups, from diverse 

 horizons and from localities widely separated geographically, would 

 be productive of many important results in the elimination of a large 

 number of now recognized species, thereby placing paleontological 

 science on a much firmer basis for more accurate deductions and 

 more suggestive conclusions relative to the true status of ancient 

 biological phenomena. The long period of comparative quietness 

 during the deposition of the Carbonic rocks of the Mississppi basin 

 and the concomitant more or less undisturbed conditions of environ- 

 ment thus imposed Avere particularly favorable to a wide geographic 

 dispersion of the various species, and to their persistency through 

 long periods of time. The majority of the species of Capulus appear 

 to be more or less widely distributed in space, especially such forms 

 as C. acutirostris, C. parvus, C. eqmlateralis and others. 



The Kinderhook forms of the genus are, on the whole, extremely 

 unsatisfactory for systematic determination, since the most of them 

 are merely internal casts. They form, however, an important 

 feature of the fauna inclosed in these rocks. The Burlington and 

 Keokuk species are very closely related, and in part extend through 

 both epochs, after which the genus is of rare occurrence in the con- 

 tinental interior. It is of considerable interest to note that this 

 numerical reduction after the close of the Keokuk was accompanied 

 by a marked depauperization of the individuals which struggled 

 through to the end of the Paleozoic. Through all the St. Louis, 

 and Kaskaskia Coal Measures the species Avithout exception are di- 

 minutive. The C. acutirostris of the St. Louis became reduced to 



1 Keyes: Proc. Acad. Nat.Sci. Phila., July 31, 1888. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



nearly one-lialf the size it possessed in the Keokuk, notwithstand- 

 ing the fact that this species had perhaps a wider geographical range 

 than any other congeneric form occurring within the Mississippi basin 

 and was therefore better adapted to preserve its full vigor, at least 

 in some parts of its distribution. 



The changes in the broad mediterranean sea that once spread over 

 the interior of North America have been referred to elsewhere' in 

 connection with the striking structural features of the crinoids of the 

 Carbonic period and will also be considered in detail in another 

 place. 



Stratigraphical Catalogue. 



carbonic. 



Lower Carbonic. 



Capulus piso (Walcott). 



occidens (Walcott). 



Kinderhook Beds. 

 Capulus formosus (Keyes). 



lodiensis (Meek). 



parcdius (White & Whitfield). 



subpiicatus (Meek & Worthen). 



corniiformis (Winchell). 



haliotoides (Meek & Worthen). 



Burlington Limestone. 

 Capulus biserialis (Hall). 

 cyrtolites (McChesney). 

 equilateral is (Hall). 

 fissurella (Hall). 



infundibulum (Meek & Worthen). 

 latus (Keyes). 

 obliquus (Keyes). 

 quincyensis (McChesney). 

 tribulosus (White). 



Keokuk Shales and Limestones. 



Capulus acxdirostris Hall. 

 equilateralis (Hall). 

 fissurella (Hall). 



1 Keyes : Genesis of the Actinociinidae, Am. Nat., vol. XXIV, p. 243, ft seq. 

 1890. 



12 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Capulus infundibuhim (Meek & Worthen). 

 sulaatinus (Keyes). 



St. Louis Limestone. 

 Capulus acutirostris Hall. 



Kaskaskia Limestone. 

 Capulus chesterensis (Meek and Worthen). 

 ovalis (Stevens). 



Upper Carbonic. 



Lower Coal Measures. 

 Capulus sjyinigei'us (Worthen). 



Upper Coal Measures. 

 Capulus jKirvtisSwaWow. 



III. Descriptions of Species. 



Generic Diagnosis. Shell depressed, subglobose, or obliquely sub- 

 conic ; body whorl very large. Aperture ample, expanded ; labrum 

 more or less sinuous, inner lip not aiichylosed to the spire. Surface 

 ■glabrate, plicate or sometimes spiniferous ; lines of growth often 

 unibricate. 



The shells which have been referred to Platyceras present a man- 

 ifold variety of forms. It is, therefore, not improbable that a fuller 

 Bxamiuation and comparison of all the known species will demand 

 a somewhat diiferent arrangement and subdivision of the group than 

 that now existing. In this .section the shell presents few salient 

 characters for consideration. As already stated it is often with ex- 

 treme difficulty that the forms of this group can be satisfactorily 

 separated from certain varieties of Platystoma and various genera of 

 Patelloid shells. In general, however, the test of Cajmlus is coiled, 

 subspiral, arcuate or subconic with a relatively small spire and an 

 immense, rapidly expanding body whorl, while the surface is usually 

 without ornamentation. The large majority of the species of this 

 group possesses tough, massive shells which are generally, therefore, 

 in a much better state of preservation than most of the associated 

 molluscan remains. 



3fuscular Scars. The internal scars so prominent in the shells of 

 living Cajndus and modern allied genera are seldom observable in 

 paleozoic forms. Hence, having never noticed in individuals of the 

 latter the peculiar horse-shoe shaped impressions, Hall ^ assigns this 



1 12th Ann. Reg. Rep. 1859, p. 16. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



as tlie only reason for regarding Capuhis and Platyeeras as distinct 

 genera. Since the time that the American author first expressed this 

 opinion, a sufficient number of fossil examples have been found to 

 indicate clearly the real nature of these scars. A careful comparison 

 shows that they are not very different from those of typical Capuli, 

 though considerable variation is noticeable in the several forms and 

 even in shells of the same species. Extended comparisons do not con- 

 firm the recent statement of M. G^hlert ^ who thus remarks : " Sur les 

 monies internes des especes que nous publions, nous avons egalement 

 observe des impressions musculaires qui, tout en presentant certaines 

 analogies avec celles des Capulus recents montrent neanmoins des 

 caracteres distincts, suffisants pour justifier la creation du genre 

 paleozoique que avait ete prevu par Conrad, Phillips et Hall." 



As exhibited in C. infundibulum and some other species the 

 muscular scars consist of a transversely elliptic impression on each 

 side connected by a narrow band traversing the posterior side of the 

 shell. In adult examples the scars are situated about one-fourth 

 the distance from the apertural margin to the apex. In some ex- 

 cellent internal casts of Capulus protei (Qilhlert) from the lower 

 Devonic of Mayenne the muscular impressions are somewhat different 

 from those of congeneric species from America. The scar on the 

 right side is comparatively large, oval and well defined ; a narrow 

 sinuous band passes around the spire posteriorly and terminates on 

 the left side in an enlarged scar similar to, but much smaller than, 

 that on the right. In some specimens the linear band does not 

 appear to be perfectly continuous from one side to the other. 

 Capulus occidens (Walcott). 



Platyeeras occidens Walcott, 1884. Pala;. Eureka Dist., p. 254, pi. xxiv, figs. 

 9,9a. 



Capulus occidens Kf^yes, 1890. Am. Geol.,vol. V. 



Shell small, composed of about one and one-half volutions, the 

 last rapidly expanding ; spire minute ; body whorl oblique, rather 

 sharply rounded dorsally. Aperture large, irregularly triangular ; 

 labrum sharj), sinuous. Surface marked by numerous lines of growth ; 

 and apparently by a few small undefined longitudinal folds. 



Horizon and locality. Lower Carbonic: Eureka District, Nevada. 



This species appears to be more closely related to C. cyrtolites 

 Mch., from the Burlington limestone, than to any other congeneric 

 form of the INIississippi basin. The apex, however, is more closely 



1 Bui. Soc. geol. de France, (3), t. XI, p. 60-5. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



coiled than in that species and the body whorl is much more ex- 

 panded. 



Capulus ■? piso (Walcott). 



Plalyccras piso Walcott, 1884. False. Eureka Dist., p. 254, pi. xxiv, figs. 7, 

 7a, 7b. 



Shell below medium size, composed of about two loosely-coiled 

 volutions, gradually expanding ; body-whorl broadly rounded and, 

 for the most part, free from the spire, which is rather small ; several 

 small obscure longitudinal folds are discernible toward the aper- 

 ture. The latter is subcircular or subovate ; lip sinuous. Surface 

 exhibiting only numerous fine lines of growth. 



Horizon and locality. Lower Carbonic : Eureka District, Nevada. 



There is some doubt as to the correct generic reference of this spe- 

 cies. The shell appears to differ in several important particulars 

 from Capulus and it is not improbable that eventually this form will 

 be placed elsewhere. 



Capulus formosus (Keyes). [Plate 11, fig. 8.] 



Platvceras fonnosum Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical SciC, vol. xxv, p. 

 242, figs. 8 and 9. Reprint, p. 14. 



Capulus foj-mosiis Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell arcuate, slightly oblique, enlarging rather rapidly to the 

 ample, irregularly pentalobate aperture; posterior side rather short 

 and concave ; lateral slopes nearly straight. Apex obtuse. Surface 

 marked by five broad well-defined longitudinal plications, each of 

 which is composed of several smaller folds ; these are crossed by sin- 

 uous lines of growth. 



Horizon and locality Kinderhook beds : Marshall county, Iowa. 



The two specimens of this species found are both attached to the 

 vaults of specimens of Dorycrinus immaturus W. & Spr. described 

 in the eighth volume of the Illinois Geological Survey. This spe- 

 cies resembles, in some respects, C. paralius (W. & W.) but is sim- 

 ply arcuate instead of being coiled. 

 Capulus cornuformis (Winchell). [Plate II, fig. 5.] 



Platyceras conutforme A. Winchell, 1863. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1863, 

 p. 18. 



Platyceras cornuforme Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 294. 



Shell small, arcuate, forming about half a volution, rapidly ex- 

 panding ; young specimens often broadly and obtusely subcarinate 

 along the dorsum. Aperture irregularly oval or subcircular ; mar- 

 gin sinuous. Surface glabrate ; lines of growth scarcely discernible. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 165 



Horizon and localities. Kinderhook beds : Burlington, Iowa ; and 

 Lodi, Ohio. 



This is one of the smallest of the Lower Carbonic species of the 

 genus ; but may have attained a larger size than the type specimen 

 indicates. A large form from Lodi, Ohio, labeled Platyceras 

 cornuforme by Meek seems to be more closely related to C. paralius 

 (W. & W.) than with species in question. 



Capulus haliotoides (Meek & Worthen). 



Platyceras haliotoides Meek cS; Worthen, 1S6G. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 July, 1866, p. 264. 



Platyceras haliotoides'Wtt^ ik.\^<:>\\\\&r\, 1868. Gaol. Sur. Illinois, vol. Ill, 

 p. 458, pi. -xiv, figs. 3a, 3b. 



Shell below medium size, very obliquely ovate, forming about two 

 very rapidly expanding volutions, which are contiguous, except near 

 the apertural margin ; whorls rather compressed, somewhat sharply 

 rounded along the periphery. Spire slightly elevated above the 

 level of the body whorl. Aperture ample, oval ; labrum sinuous. 

 Surface marked by undulating lines of growth and often by a few 

 low, obscurely defined ridges. 



Horizon and localities. Kinderhook beds : Richfield and Newark, 

 Ohio. 



This form is commonly found only as internal casts and the sur- 

 face markings are therefore rarely preserved. The species usually 

 does not have the labrum touching the spire, nor the latter as closely 

 coiled as is shown in the figures of IVIeek & Worthen. 



Capulus lodiensis (Meek). 



Platyceras i^Orthonychia) lodiense Meek, 1871. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 1871, p. 170. 



Platyceras [Orthonyckia] lodiense Meek, 187.5. Geol. Sur. Ohio (Pals.), vol. 

 II, p. 313, pi. xiii, figs, la, lb. 



Shell l)elow^ medium size, obliquely conic, anterior slope moder- 

 ately convex, lateral slopes straight, or very slightly concave, pos- 

 terior slope concave ; a narrow rounded ridge extends anteriorly 

 from near the apex to the labrum. Aperture subelliptic ; margin 

 somewhat sinuous. Surface apparently marked by fine lines of 

 growth only. 



Horizon and localiixj. Kinderhook beds : Lodi, Ohio. 

 Capulus lodiensis seems to be very closely related to C. suhplica- 

 tus, with which it should, perhaps, be regarded as synonymous ; the 

 chief difference being simply the more plicate character of the lat- 

 ter. It has been elsewhere shown that the plications are extremely 




166 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



variable and are dependent largely upon the accidental station of 

 the mollnsk. The type specimen is imbedded in a hard matrix — 

 only the interior of the shell being exposed to view. Meek's figures 

 were made from plaster casts of the interior, so that no surface mark- 

 ings are discernible. 



Capulus paralius (AVhite & Whitfield). [Plate IT, figs, la, lb.] 



Platyceras paralmvi White & Whitfield, 186'2. Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. His- 

 tory, vol. V'lII, p. 303. 



Platyceras paralium Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 294. 



Capulus paralius Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell small, forming about two rapidly expanding volutions, which 

 are not contiguous ; apical portions minute, slender, laterally com- 

 pressed, subangular along the dorsum, more or less distinctly plicate. 

 Aperture irregularly pentagonal ; labrum sharp, deeply sinuous, or 

 somewhat serrate. Surface marked by few subimbricate lines of 

 growth. 



Horizon and localities. Kinderhook beds : Des Moines and iVIar- 

 shall counties, Iowa ; Lodi, Ohio. 



The apical portion of the shell is more slender and extended than 

 the type would indicate from a casual examination. The smaller 

 specimen figured (Plate II, fig. lb) shows the spire perfectly pre- 

 served. The type (Plate II, fig. la) has the longitudinal folds 

 much more prominent than is apparent in a representative specimen 

 of the species. In some examples the plications are hardly notice- 

 able. This species is widely distributed geographically, ranging 

 froniLe Grand, in central Iowa, to the southeastern part of the State 

 and thence to Ohio. 



Capulus subplicatus (Meek & Worthen). 



Platyceras [Orihonyc/iia) subplicatum Meek & Worthen, 1866. Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila. 1866, p. 265. 



Platyceras {Ortkonychia) subplicatum Meek & Worthen, 1868. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. Ill, p. 457, pi. XIV, figs. 4a, 4b, 4c. 



Shell small, depressed, obliquely conical ; anterior slope somewhat 

 convex ; posterior and lateral slopes slightly concave or straight ; 

 several large broad undefined plications extend from the apertural 

 margin nearly two-thirds the distance to the aj^ex. Aperture sub- 

 circular. 



Horizon and locality. Kinderhook beds : Richfield, Ohio. 



This species is known only from natural casts. The specimens 

 exhibit well the muscular scars which are described as " obliquely 

 elongated, subovate or sublunate, and vertically striated, placed a 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 167 



little above the middle of each side and connected by a linear band 

 passing around behind." 



Capulus cyrtolites (McChesney). [Plate II, fig. 2.] 



Ptatyceras cyrtolites McChesney, 1800. Desc. New Foss. Pula;. Rocks Western 

 States, p. 71. 



Platyceras cyrtolites Keyes, 1889. Froc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Pliila., 1889, p. 288. 



Capiiliis cyrtolites Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell small, slender, arched ; composed of about one volution ; 

 dorsally subangular, with a broad flattened area on each side ; pos- 

 teriorly somewhat plicate. Apical portion small, incurved, some- 

 times enrolled or contiguous. Aperture moderately large, subquad- 

 rangular; lip sharp, sinuous. Surface marked only by strong 

 undulating lines of growth, which are often somewhat imbricated. 



Horizon and localities. Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa ; 

 and Calhoun county, Illinois. 



This species appears to be genetically related to C acutirostris 

 (Hall) from the Keokuk and eventually the two forms may prove 

 identical. C. cyrtolites is from the upper division of the Burlington 

 limestone and differs very essentially from any known congeneric 

 species from the same horizon. 



Capulus biserialis (Hall). 



Platyceras biserialis Hall, 1859. Geol. of Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, Suppl., p. 90. 



Platyceras biserialis Meek & Worthen, 1868. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. Ill, p. 

 509. pi. XV, figs. 3a, 3b. 



Capulus biserialis Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell rather below medium size, somewhat ovate, subspiral, form- 

 ing slightly more than one volution, regularly incurved. Aperture 

 broadly oval ; margin rather sharp, undulating, with a broad rounded 

 sinus anteriorly. The expanded anterior portion of the shell 

 marked on each side by a longitudinal row of long, conspicuous, 

 hollow spines, about six in number. Surface smooth showing nu- 

 merous fine, sinuous lines of growth. 



Horizon and locality. Burlington limestone : Quincy, Illinois. 



A marked characteristic of this form and also of C. tribulosns 

 (White) is that the tubular spines are arranged in longitudinal 

 rows, while in the few other American spine-bearing Capuli there is 

 no regularity in the distribution of the spinous process. The spines 

 are easily broken and hence are seldom preserved to their full 

 length ; often they are scarcely noticeable. 




16(S PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Capulus latus (Keyes.) 



Platyceraslahtin Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol XXV, p. 242, 

 figs. 10, 11. (Reprint., p. 14.) 



Platyccras latum Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Philadelphia, 1889, p. 

 290. 



Capulus latus Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell large, depressed, foniiiiig about one and one-half volutions, 

 very rapidly expanding from the apex to the aperture, l)ut enlarg- 

 ing transversely much more. than dorso-ventrally ; posterior side 

 comparatively very short. Apex small, incurved, but free from the 

 body of the shell and nearly in the same plane as the general curva- 

 ture. Aperture very large, campanulate, transversely elliptic ; lip 

 attenuate and slightly sinuous. Surface marked toward the aperture 

 by a few small nearly obsolete folds, and by numerous sinuous lines of 

 growth. 



Horizon and locality. Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa. 



This species is from the white compact layers of the upper division 

 of the Burlington beds. The specimens like the majority of fossils 

 from this stratum are usually more or less exfoliated. 



Capulus obliquus (Keyes). [Plate II, fig. ?>.] 



Platyccras obliqimni Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. xxv, p. 

 241, figs. 12, 13. (Reprint., p. 13.) 



Platyceras obliqimm Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 290 



Capulus obliquus Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell of medium size, irregularly oblong, subspiral, forming one 

 volution ; regularly enlarging, slightly more rapidly transversely 

 than in the opposite direction, to the aperture. Apex large, obtuse, 

 ftir removed from the body of the sliell, which is broadly arcuate ; 

 very noticeably oblique to the plane of general curvature in the 

 body of the shell. Aperture irregularly quadrangular in outline ; 

 margin sharp and more or less sinuous. Surface marked by several 

 undefined longitudinal plications, which sometimes form longitudinal 

 series of obscure nodes ; these are crossed by numerous sinuous, often 

 subimbricated lines of growth. 



Horizon and locality. Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa. 



This species is a transition between the so-called " Orthonychia" 

 and " Platyceras" groups ; and is one of the few of this type occur- 

 ring in the American Carbonic. 

 Capulus quinoyensis (McChesney). [Plate II, fig. 9.] 



Platvceras quincyense McChesney, 1861. Desc. New Foss. Palte. Rocks West. 

 States, p. 90. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



Platyceras (juincyense McChesney, 1867. Trans. Chicago Acad. Sci., vol. I, p. 

 49, pi. vi, figs. 6a, 6b. 



Platyceras [Ortkonychia) cjuincyense Meek ^; Worthen, 1868. Geol. Sur. 

 Illinois, vol. Ill, p. 510, pi. XV, figs. 5a, 5b. 



Platyceras quincvense Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 

 290. 



Capiilus quincyoisis Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell of medium size, broadly conical, often more or le.ss elon- 

 gated ; expanding very rapidly and regularly from the central or 

 subcentral apex to the aperture. Usually five broad, rounded ridges 

 extend from near the apex to the aperture, which is consequently 

 Biore or less prominently quinquelobate ; the ridges are not unfre- 

 quently further divided into two or more smaller folds. Lip sharp, 

 sinuous. Surface marked by subimbricating lines of growth and also 

 by numerous small, often undefined, longitudinal co.sta3 which do not 

 appear in the cast. 



Horizon and localities. Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa ; 

 and Quincy, Illinois. 



The specimens described by ]\rcChesney and by Meek and Wor- 

 then were either exfoliated examples or internal casts ; and this is 

 the condition in which the species is usually found. Owing to the 

 peculiar state of pre.servation the shells quickly crumble away in 

 handling, leaving only the internal casts, but the distinctive quin- 

 quelobate character always renders them easily recognizable. In 

 the examples figured l)y McChesney and also by Meek and "Worthen 

 the apices were wanting, but the individuals were not as imperfect 

 as was supposed. 



During the earlier periods of their growth many of the shells of C. 

 quincyensis were very broad, but when attaining about one-third 

 their maximum size the aperture abruptly became relatively smaller, 

 leaving a sharp subangular ridge around the shell parallel to the 

 apertural margin. This abrupt decrease in the expansion of the 

 shell impax'ts to the natural internal casts the appearance of an apical 

 truncation or fracture. 



In its attachment to paleozoic crinoids the onl}' forms with which 

 C. quincyensis has thus far been found associated is Physetocvinus 

 ventricosus (Hall), a species having a rather depressed hemispherical 

 dome, in which the ventral opening has a subcentral location. The 

 dome plates are small and numerous and frequently studded with 

 small prominent tubercles or subspinous processes, which impart to 

 the gasteropod shell series of minute corrugations extending over 

 each of the larger folds. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Capulus tribulosus (White). [Plate II, figs. 4a, 4b.] 



F/afyccnis trilnilosum White, 1883. 12th Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Sur. Ter., pt. 

 I, p. 186, pi. XLI, figs. 6a, 6b. 



Platyceras trihulosiim Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 290. 



Capulus tribulosus Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell rather below medium size, subspiral, rather slendei', forming 

 about one volution ; regularly expanding to the aperture. Apex 

 incurved, far removed from the body of the shell. Aperture ir- 

 regularly oval, usually more or less broadly lobed posteriorly ; lip 

 sharp, irregular, with usually a deep sinus anteriorly. Surface 

 glabrate, but exhibiting numerous fine, closely arranged lines of 

 growth ; also marked by three longitudinal series of long tubular 

 spines, extending from the apertural margin about three-fourths the 

 distance to the apex. Of these spiniferous rows two are disposed 

 laterally, one on each side and the third centrally and dorsally. 



Horizon and locality. Burlington limestone: Burlington, Iowa. 



This is one of the few spiniferous species belonging to the genus 

 Capulus ; and only two others of similar character occur in the 

 American Carbonic rocks. It appears to be closely allied to C. 

 biserialis (Hall) and may eventually prove identical with that form, 

 from which it apparently differs only in having three, instead of 

 two, rows of spines. Thus far it has been noted only in the upper 

 division of the Burlington limestone, when it occurs in the thin 

 sandy-clay partings, associated with delicate and beautifully pre- 

 served bryozoa. The type specimen is not a characteristic repre- 

 sentative of the species, being in several particulars quite abnormal. 

 Capulus acutirostris Hall. 



Capulus acutirostris Hall, 1856. Trans. Albany Institute, vol. IV, p. 31. 



Capulus acutirostris Hall, 1858. Geol. of Iowa, vol. I, pt, ii, p. 665, pi. x.xiii 

 figs, 14a, 14b. 



Platyceras {Capulus) acutirostris McChesney, 1860. Desc. New False. Foss 

 West. Slates, p. 71. 



Platyceras uucuiii Meek & Woithen, 1866. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila. 

 1866, p 264. 



Platyceras uncuin Meek & Worthen. 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p, 

 516, pi. XVII, fig. 1. 



Platyceras acuti1■ostris\\h\^.(^t\d,\S^'2. Bui. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., vol. I, p 

 67. 



Platyceras acutirostris Hall, 1883. Indiana Geol. Rept. for 1883, p. 370, pi 

 XXXI, figs. 13-15. 



Capulus acutirostris Keyes, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell below medium size, rather slender, strongly arcuate, form- 

 ing from one to one and one-half volutions ; posterior side for some 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrHIA. 171 



distance from the apertural margin nearly straight. S[)ire laterally 

 more or less compressed ; sometimes small and short, sometimes long, 

 attenuate, simply incurved or enrolled. Aperture oval, or sub-cir- 

 cular ; margin t<harp, sinuous. Surface marked by somewhat im- 

 bricating lines of growth, and several obscurely defined longitudinal 

 plications, the anterior one being usually larger than the others, and 

 often forming a ])rominent subangular ridge. 



Horizon and localities. Keokuk limestones and shales : Warsaw 

 and Nauvoo, Illinois. St. Louis limestone : Spurgeon Hill and 

 Bloomington, Indiana ; Tuscumbia, Alabama. 



This form appears to have a geographically wide distribution ; 

 and it also presents considerable variation, even within limited areas. 

 It was originally described from Spurgeon Hill, Indiana, and like all 

 the founal remains of that locality is characteristically depauperate. 

 PlaUjceras uncum M. & AV. seems to be identical with this species, 

 the imposed conditions of environment being more favorable to a 

 normal development ; and to the attainment of somewhat larger pro- 

 portions. 

 Capulus equilateralis (Hall). [Plate II, fig. 11.] 



Platyceras equilatera Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, Supp., p. 89. 



Platyce7-as equilatera Meek & Worlhen, 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois., vol. V, p. 

 518, pi. xvii, fig. 2. 



Platyceras equilateralis Miller, 1877. Cat. Am. Palae. Foss., p. 15(3. 



Platyceras equilatera White, 18S0. Indiana Geol. Rept. for 1880, p. 514, pi. 

 vii, fig. 5. 



Platyceras equilateruin Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. xxv, 

 p. 236, figs. 2 and 3. 



Platyceras equilateruin Keyes, 1889. Am. Geologist, vol. Ill, p. 331. 



Platyceras equilateruin Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p 288. 



Capulus equilateralis ¥ieyts, 1890. Am. Geol., vol. V. 



Shell medium, but often attaining a large size ; extremely variable, 

 hemispherical to oblique conical, with incurved spire, volutions one 

 to two in number, free or contiguous, moderately enlarging for some 

 distance from the apex and then rather abruptly and rapidly ex- 

 panding. Aperture very large, broadly oval, or often nearly cir- 

 cular ; lip thin, more or less undulating. Surface smooth, but to- 

 ward the apertural margin exhibiting numerous, often strongly 

 imbricating, sinuous lines of growth. Frequently many small 

 obscure longitudinal folds are also present. 



Horizon and localities. Keokuk limestone and shales : Keokuk 

 and Bonaparte, Iowa ; Wai'saw and Niota, Illinois ; Crawfordsville, 

 Indiana. Burlington limestone : Burlington Iowa. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



This species seems to be one of the most ahundaut gasteropods of 

 the Keokuk beds ; especially at Crawfordsville, Indiana, where the 

 conditions of environment, during the deposition of the blue clayey 

 shales of that locality, wei'e uncommonly favorable to the develop- 

 ment of this mollusk. Some of the shells from the locality mentioned 

 have very considerable measurements : height 45 mm. ; length along 

 the dorsum, 95 mm.; breadth, 60 mm. Not only is the species 

 under consideration variable in size but it is extremely so in form 

 and in the configuration of the apertural margin. Perhaps no 

 Capulus in all the Carbonic presents so wide a range of variation as 

 does this species. Immature shells appear to be glabrate, but as 

 growth proceeded they became more and more rugose and iml^ricate. 

 The spire is as often contiguous as free and simply incurved ; and in 

 adult specimens it is relatively very small. The longitudinal folds 

 are not unfrequently very pronounced and being few in number, im- 

 part a peculiar trilobate appearance to the shells ; in other examjiles 

 all traces of plications are wanting. 



The extensive series of C. equilateralis from the Crawfordsville 

 shales affords many interesting phases of the habits of these gaster- 

 opods, hitherto not elsewhere presented in such an eminently satis- 

 factory manner. At this locality C. equilateralis is usually attached 

 to the calyx of Gilbertsocrinus tuberosus (Lyon & Casseday) but the 

 mollusk is not invariably associated with this particular species of 

 crinoid, as Meek & Worthen^ supposed. A number of typical ex- 

 amples of the Capulus in question have l)een observed adhering to 

 Platijcrinus hemisphericus ]Meek & AVorthen [plate II, fig. 11] with 

 which, however, is more commonly associated C. infimdibulum (M. 

 & W.). In Gilbertsocrinus the vault is relatively large, nearly flat, 

 with the anal opening located midway lietween the center and mar- 

 gin. In both G. tuberosus (L. & C.) from the Keokuk shales and 

 G. tyjnis (Hall) from the Burlington limestone, the ventral plates 

 are convex, or, as in many specimens very nodose. The growing 

 margin of the gasteropod shell having adapted itself exactly to the 

 irregularities of the surface of the crinoidal vault, necessarily was 

 always more or less deeply sinuous, each sinus being produced by the 

 nodosity of the vault plate in contact ; while the small linguiform 

 projection between two sinuses extended down between the nodes of 

 two contiguous plates. The extreme nonparallelism of the lines of 

 growth so conspicuously evident in the shells of many ancient 



^ Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 335. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



Capuli is thus capable of being traced and especially in those examples 

 in which the nodosity of the dome plates of the crinoid have reached 

 a high development. This phenomenon of nonparallelisra of the 

 lines of growth is not therefore indicative of a change in station of 

 the gasteropod as has been suggested at various times. 



It has been clearly shown elsewhere' that shells of C. equllateralis, 

 when adhering to flat surfiices are always very much depressed and 

 have the aperture proportionately much more expanded than the 

 average specimen, while the spire is closely incurved, even touching 

 the body of the shell. When the gasteropod is found attached to 

 strongly convex surfaces, or to the calyces of Platycrinus the shell en- 

 larges less rapidly ; and there is also a tendency in the apex to be- 

 come free from the body-whorl and even to completely uncoil, often to 

 such an extent as to approach closely some forms of the C. Injundl- 

 bultnn type. 



Capulus fissurella (Hall). 



Platyceras fissurella Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. I,pt. ii, Supp., p. 90. 



Platyceras fissurella Meek & Worthen, 18T3. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 

 519, pi. XVII, fig. 4. 



Platyceras fissurella Keyes, 1889. Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 289. 



Capulus fissurella Keyes, 1890. Am. Geologist, vol. V. 



Shell massive, obliquely depressed conical, enlarging rapidly to 

 the aperture ; from apex to margin straight or somewhat arcuate 

 anteriorly, slightly concave posteriorly. Apex obtuse, situated 

 nearly over the posterior margin of the aperture, which is ample, 

 oval or nearly circular ; lip thick, rounded, very slightly sinuous. 

 Surface marked by numerous gently undulating, somewhat irregular 

 and often subimbricating lines of growth. Occasionally there are 

 obscure indications of small longitudinal folds. 



Horizon and localities. Keokuk limestone : Warsaw and N^au- 

 voo, Illinois. Burlington limestone : Burlington, Iowa. 



The specific name of this form is very inappropriate, having orig- 

 inated in a misconception on pai't of the author of the species as to 

 the true nature of the apical perforation in the type specimen. It 

 has been clearly shown by Meek & Worthen that the aperture in the 

 apex is not a natural opening, but an accidental fracture in the shell. 



Recently typical examples of C. fissurella have been found in the 

 upper Burlington limestone, thus adding another case in support of 

 the view lately" advanced that the faunas of the Keokuk and Bur- 



1 Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. XXV, p. 236. 



» Keyes: American Journ. Sci., vol. XXXVIII, pp. 189-193. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



lington limestones are much more intimately related biologically than 

 had hitherto been generally regarded ; and that many so-called 

 Keokuk species are merely the subsequent genetic representatives of 

 Burlington forms. The validity of their distinction simply on ac- 

 count of occurring in differently named geological horizons cannot 

 be sustained. It is not to be supposed that the biologic sequence of 

 two divisions as the Burlington and Keokuk, so closely related 

 stratigraphically and lithologically, and deposited under identi- 

 cal quiet conditions should ])e so widely separated faunally as the 

 described species from these limestones would indicate. 



Capulus infundibulum (Meek & AVorthen). [Plate II, fig. 10.] 



Platyceras subrechitn Hall, 1859. Geol. Iowa, vol. 1, pt. ii, Supp., p. 89 (not 

 P.subrectum Hall, 1859, for a New York specimen). 



Platycems subrectum Hail, 1860. Twelfth Am. Reg. Rept. Univ. N. Y., p 18. 

 (Not P. subrectuvi Hall, 1859.) 



Platyceras infundibulum Meek & Worthen, 1866. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 

 1866, p. 1266. 



Platyceras infundibulum Meek & Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, 

 p. 517, pi. XVII, fig. 3. 



Platyceras infundibulutn Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. XXV, 

 p. 238, fig. 1. 



Platyceras infundibuhan Keyes, 1889. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 

 289. 



Capulus infmdibuluvi Keyes, 1890. Am. Geologist, vol. V. 



Shell more or less conical, often somewhat oblique, with usually 

 many undefined longitudinal folds; apical portions slender, expand- 

 ing regularly at first and then more rapidly. Apex attenuated, 

 often slightly deflected toward the posterior side. Surface smooth, 

 but toward the aperture marked by numerous undulating, fre- 

 quently imbricating lines of growth. 



Horizon and localities. Keokuk limestones and shales : Keokuk, 

 Iowa ; Warsaw, Illinois ; Crawfordsville, Indiana. Burlington 

 limestone : Burlington, Iowa. 



The most closely allied form associated with this species is C.fis- 

 surella (Hall), from which it is distinguished in being proj)ort ion- 

 ally more elongate, while the apical part of the shell is character- 

 istically slender. Ordinarily the shell is more or less conspicuously 

 plicate, but the folds are, for the most part, narrow, and usually ir- 

 regular and broken. 



For an elongated specimen Meek & AVorthen' have indicated the 

 nume J^latyceras extinct or " shon\d it prove distinct,'' but the term 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 266, 1866. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



cannot be regai-ded as having- actually been proposed, while the form 

 itself is manifestly only an attenuated internal cast of C. infundibu- 

 lum. It however exhibits well the characteristic muscular impres- 

 sions. 



This species like C. equllateralis (Hall), with which it is usually 

 associated, occurs in the Burlington limestone and ranges through 

 the Keokuk. Its association with crinoids at Crawfordsville, Indi- 

 ana, has been for the most part with Platycrinus hemisphericus M. 

 & W. ; while at Burlington it adheres to a structurally similar form, 

 Endadoci-inus mUlehrachlutus W. &. Spr. The vault in the first 

 species is very much elevated ai^d the anal opening is situated laterally 

 between, and slightly above, two arm bases. The dorsal cup is orna- 

 mented by numerous conspicuous rounded tubercles. As the grow- 

 ing shell increased in size the pliant apertural margin encountered 

 successively the different nodes, which caused the lip at these points 

 to deflect outward, giving rise to variously shaped prominences on 

 the shell ; when the tubercles were arranged in regular rows there 

 appeared a series of narrow nodular plications. In many cases the 

 gasteropod shell increased in size much faster than the echinoderm 

 and the lip of the shell consequently often encompassed the twopos- 

 terio-lateral arms and not unfrequently also the stem of the crinoid. 

 The result was two large, deep sinuses in the anterior and one simi- 

 lar indentation in the posterior margin of the shell. The effect of 

 the tubercles was to impart a similar sinuous character to the entire 

 margin, hence the lip was always crenated during the latter part of 

 the mollusk's existence. The continual change in the nature of the 

 surface upon which the gasteropod shell rested also interfered with 

 the uniform and regular growth along the apertural margin and the 

 lines of growth are consequently often strongly imbricated. 



Capulus sulcatinus sp. nov. [Plate II, figs. 12a, 12b.] 



Shell of medium size, obliquely subovate, composed of two to two 

 and one-half rather closely coiled or contiguous volution.s, enlarging 

 rapidly toward the aperture. Body Avhorl large and partly free 

 from the small closely coiled spire ; a broad rounded fold extends 

 dorsally along the last whorl. Aperture broadly obovate; margin 

 sharp, undulating, with a wide deeply rounded sinus anteriorly. 

 Surface marked by numerous well defined, nearly parallel longitu- 

 dinal ridges, with broad, rather shallow depressions between ; lines 

 of growth numerous, extremelv sinuous. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Horizon and locality. Keokuk shales : Crawfordsville, Indiana. 



This species occurs in the famous Crawfordsville crinoid beds, as- 

 sociated with C. equilateralis and C. infundibulum both of which are 

 common species of that locality. It is one of the few regularly 

 costate species of the genus and the only one of this character found 

 in the Carbonic strata of America. 



Capulus ovalis (Stevens). 



Acroculia ovalis Stevens, 1858. Am. Jour. Sci , (2), vol. xxv, p. 261. 



Platyceras laevigatum Meek & Wortlien, 186C. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci , Phila., 

 1866, p. 263. (Not Acroculia hcvigata McCoy.) 



Shell very small, subglobose ; volutions about two an one-half in 

 number, contiguous, rather rapidly expanding but not campanulate ; 

 spire very small. Aperture regularly subcircular or oval, but 

 frequently somewhat flattened laterally ; lip sharp, not sinuous. 

 Surface glabrate ; but under the magnifier exhibiting fine regular 

 lines of growth. 



Horizon and localities. Ka.skaskia limestone : Union and Ran- 

 dolph counties, Illinois ; St. Genevieve county, Missouri. 



Capulus ovalis is one of the smallest of the lower Carbonic (Japuli, 

 having a height of only three to six millimeters and a maximum 

 breadth of eight millimeters. 



Capulus chesterensis (Meek <fe AVorthen). [Plate 11, tigs. l?.a, 13b, 13c, 13d.] 



Platyceras ( Orf/ionyc/iia) chesterense Meek & Wortlien, 1866. Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., Phila., 1866, p. 265. 



Platyceras chesterense Keyes, 1888. Proc. Am. Philosophical Soc, vol. XXV 

 figs. 4 and 5. 



Ci7/«/«j (7/«.V;-(f;/.w Keyes, 1890. Am. Geologist, vol. V. 



Shell small, obliquely conical, with five nearly equidistant, longi- 

 tudinal furrows, which alternate with broad flattened folds ; expand- 

 ing moderately to the aperture ; usually more or less strongly arcu- 

 ate, sometimes forming nearly half of a volution, thus bringing the 

 apex above or even considerably beyond the posterior portion of the 

 labrum. Apex more or less attenuated but often blunt. Aper- 

 ture pentagonal, or irregularly subcircular ; lip thick, rounded, with 

 five deep, rounded sinuses. Surface marked by numerous subimbri- 

 cated, broadly undulating lines of growth. 



Horizon and localities. Chester division of the Lower Carbonic : 

 Chester and Pope counties, Illinois ; and Pulaski county, Kentucky. 



This little species is found almost invariably attached to the vault 

 of crinoids ; and Meek & Worthen report one adhering to the side 

 oi Pentremites godoni DeFrance, "so as to entirely cover one of the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 177 



pseudo-ambulacral fields and two intermediate areas." The speci- 

 mens from Kentucky are nearly all attached to Pterofocrinus — P. 

 acutus Wetherby, P. bifurcatns Weth., and P. depressns Weth. In 

 the first of these species the vault is very nuich elevated, being nearly 

 three times the height of the dorsal cup. The first radial dome 

 })lates are produced into monstrous, alate processes, leaving only a 

 small summit which is perforated for the anus. The margin of the 

 growing gasteropod shell has followed closely the surface in contact ; 

 and in the majority of examples when the summit of the crinoidal 

 vault Avas not sufficiently extensive for the suppoit of the enlarging 

 shell, the apertural margin has been prolonged into the interradial 

 depressions, forming prominent, rounded, linguiform extensions ; 

 while the pi'otruding, rounded upper edges of the alate dome-plates 

 of the crinoid have given rise to five deep, broadly rounded sinuses 

 in the lip of the molluscan shell. The lines of growth in the shell 

 are therefore extremely sinuous, the undulations in the direction of 

 the aperture being concave on the broad flattened folds, and convex 

 in the furrows. In some si^ecimens the furrows and folds have their 

 origin very near the apex ; a fact which is suggestive that tlie form 

 of the shell and the configuration of the apertural margin may not 

 have been entirely dependent upon the immediate surface of contact ; 

 but from a long continued habit of adhering to a crinoid presenting 

 such remarkable ventral features as Pterotocrinus, the gasteropod 

 gradually acquired after many generations, a decided tendency to- 

 ward the quinquelobate form, which made itself manifest at an early 

 period of the mollusk's existence, and perhaps even in the latter part 

 of the embryonic stage. 



In order to bring the mouth over the ventral aperture of the 

 crinoid and at the same time rest securely on the limited, flattened 

 summit at one side of which the anal opening was situated it was 

 necessary for the gasteropod to have the anterior portion of the shell 

 directed toward the posterior side of the crinoid — one of the few 

 instances of the kind that has been noted, for almost invariably the 

 front of the gasteropod shell is diiected toward the anterior side of 

 the echinoderm. 



Capulus parvus Swallow. [Plate II, figs. 14a, 14b, 14c.] 



Capidus pai~fus Swallow, 1858. Trans. St. Louis Acad. Sci., vol. I, p. 20-5. 



Platyceras nedrascense Meek, 1872. U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, p. 227, pi. iv, 

 %. 15. 



Platyceras nebrascense White, 1875. E.xpl. W. 100 Merid., Vol. IV, p. 159, pi. 

 xii, fig. 5. 



13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Platyceras nebrascense White, 1884. Indiana Geol. Rept. for 1883, p. 159, p. 

 xxxii, figs. 15 and 16. 



Capiihis pannis Keyes, 1890. Am. Geologist, vol. V. 



Shell small, broadly arcuate, or obliquely recurved, forming 

 nearly one volution ; regularly and rather rapidly expanding to the 

 aperture. Apex rather blunt ; inclined or recurved to the right. 

 Aperture ample, subovate; lip sharp, more or less regularly sinuous. 

 Surface nearly glabrate but under a glass showing numerous un- 

 dulating lines of growth, which are clearly visible nearly to the apex. 

 The shell is also marked sometimes by several almost obsolete 

 longitudinal folds. 



Horizon and localities. Upper Coal Measures : Indiana, Iowa, 

 Nebraska, Kansas and New Mexico. 



The small specimen figured (plate II, figs. 14a and 14b) is con- 

 sidered the type of Swallow's species, now in the museum of the 

 University of Missouri. A careful comparison shows the form de- 

 scribed from Nebraska by Meek is only a more mature individual of 

 C. parvus. Since, however, Sw^allow's species was poorly defined and 

 was never figured ; and'as Meek was the first to give a clear dignosis 

 of this form both by a full description and by good illustrations, it 

 is questionable whether Meek's name should not really be retained 

 for the form, Platyceras nebrascense having been almost universally 

 applied to this species as occurring throughout the west. 



Capulus spinigerus (Worthen). 



Platyceras spinigertts Worthen, 1873. Geol. Sur. Illinois, vol. V, p. 594, pi. 

 xviii, fig. 4. 



Capidus spinigerus Keyes, 1890. Am. Geologist, vol. V. 



Shell rather small, strongly arched ; composed of le.ss than one 

 volution ; very rapidly expanding to the aperture. Apex sharp, 

 scarcely incurved. Aperture subovate ; lip sinuous. Surface niarked 

 by many undulating, often somewhat imbricated lines of growth; 

 and also by a few scattering spines ; several low broadly rounded 

 longitudinal ridges have their origin near the apex and extend to 

 the aperture. 



Horizon and locality. Lower Coal Measures : Brighton, Illinois. 



This is one of the three spiniferous species of Capulus occurring 

 in the Carbonic strata of America. The other two are from the 

 Burlington limestone and have the spines arranged in longitudinal 

 series while in C. spinigerus the spines are scattered over the surface 

 of the shell. It is very probable that this form will prove to be 

 identical with C. trigonalis of Stevens. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



For the loan of type specimens and material sincere thanks are 

 tendered: Prof. G. C. Broadhead, State University of Missouri ; 

 Dr. J. S. Newberry, School of Mines, Columbia College, New York 

 City ; Mr. Charles D. Walcott, U. S. Geological Survey, Washington, 

 D. C. ; Dr. Alexander Winchell, University of Michigan, Ann 

 Arbor; Mr. E. O. Ulrich, Newport, Ky. ; and especially Messrs. 

 Oharles Wachmuth and Frank Springer. 



IV. Spurious and Doubtful Species of Carbonic Capuli. 



Platyceras bivolve White & Whitfield. (Proc. Boston Soc. Nat. 

 Hist., vol. VIII, p. 302. 1862.) A careful examination of the type 

 specimen appears to indicate that this form is a true Platystoma and 

 it has accordingly been transferred^ to that genus. Though somewhat 

 resembling the young specimens of Platyceras ventricosuin Conrad, 

 as remarked by White and Whitfield, it differs very essentially from 

 that form. The spire is much more elevated, being on a level or 

 even above the surface of the body whorl ; while the inner lip is 

 much thickened, reflexed and anchylosed to the spire. Platystoma 

 bivolve (W. & W.) has almost an exact counterpart among some 

 forms of the upper Siluric species Platystoma niagarense Hall, from 

 the Waldron (Indiana) shales. 



Platyceras cajyax K. (Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 1888, p. 241.) Proba- 

 bly synonymous with C. equilateralis (Hall). 



Platyceras capulus Hall. (Geol. Sur. Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, Supp., p. 

 91.1859.) If recent identifications have been correct this species 

 does not belong to the genus Capulus. 



Platyceras extinctor Meek & Worthen. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., p. 266, 1866.) Never formally proposed. It is evidently 

 only an elongated variety of Capulus infundibulum (M. & W.). 



Platyceras Icevlgatum Meek & Worthen. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1866, p. 263.) Synonym of Capulus ovalis (Stevens). The 

 name was preoccupied by McCoy. 



Platyceras nebrascense Meek. (U. S. Geol. Sur. Nebraska, 1872, 

 p. 227.) Only a more mature individual of Capulus parvus Swallow. 



Platyceras pabulocrinus Owen. (Kept. Geol. Sur. Indiana, p. 364, 

 1862.) Proposed for a form similar to C. infundibulum (M. & 

 W.), but \vithout description. 



Platyceras reversum Hall. (Geol. Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, Supp., p. 91, 

 1859.) Manifestly is not a Capulus. 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1889, p. 293. 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Platyceras subrectum Hall. (Geol. Iowa, vol. I, pt. ii, Suppl., p. 

 89, 1859.) Preoccupied by Hall for an Upper Helderberg form. 

 Synonym of C. infimdlbulum (Meek & Worthen). 



Platyceras tortum Meek. (Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1871, p. 

 171.) This species does not belong to Capulus. The general form, 

 the flattened character of the upper half of the body whorl, the 

 obtuse angularity toward the sutural line and the sei'ies of distinct 

 parallel costpe running transversely over the volutions, as w'ell ex- 

 hibited in the type specimens, all indicate that the species is actually 

 a partially uncoiled Naticopsis, probably not far removed from N. 

 ventricosa N. & P. A similar tendency in the whorls to become 

 separated is admirably shown in Naticopsis gigantea H. & W. from 

 the Devonic ; and also in Platystoma niagarense Hall from the upper 

 Siluric. The shell of Naticopsis torta (Meek) is extremely thin and 

 fragile, while the lines of growth are regularly and evenly curved, 

 both of which characters are seldom exhibited in the ancient Capuli. 



Capulus triplicatus Swallow. (Trans. St. Louis Academy Sci., 

 vol. I, p. 205, 1858.) Too imperfect for description. Apparently 

 does not even belong to the Gasteroj^oda. Probably a valve of a 

 Myalina ! 



Platyceras uncum Meek & Worthen. (Pi-oc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 Phila., 1866, p. 264.) Synonym of Capulus acutirostris Hall. 



Of the five following species nothing is known except the original 

 descriptions which are very meager and are unaccompanied by fig- 

 ures. They are apparently identical with species already described ; 

 but inasmuch as authentic specimens have not been examined their 

 synonymy will not here be considered. They are : Platyceras hert- 

 zeri Winchell, Platijceras vomerium Winchell, P. quincuxense Mc- 

 Chesney, P. hickmansense McChesney and Acroculia trigonalis Ste- 

 vens. 



Explanation of Plate II. 



Fig. 1. Capulus par alius (W. & W.) la. Lateral view of type 

 specimen [Museum of University of Michigan], lb. A 

 younger individual. 



Fig. 2. Capulus cyriolites (McC.) Lateral aspect. 



Fig. 3. Capulus obliquus (Keyes). Lateral view of type. 



Fig. 4. Capulus tribulosus (White). 4a. A rather small shell, 

 from above. 4b. Same from side. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



Fig. 5. Capulus cornuformis (Winchell). Lateral view of a small 

 individual. [Coll. J. S. Newberry.] 



Fig. 6. Calyx of Plah/crliius pileiformis Hall showing the impres- 

 sion made by a calyptrsean shell on the posterior side of the 

 crinoid. 



Fig. 7. Portion of the ventral surface of AS^ro/om/t?(s re^ra/is (Hall) 

 showing the impression made by a growing shell of Capu- 

 lus. 



Fig. 8. Capulus formosus Hejes. Lateral view of type specimen, 

 attached to Dorycrinus immaturus W. & Sp. [Coll. Wachs- 

 muth and Springer.] 



Fig. 9. Capulus quincyensis (McC.) View of an exfoliated speci- 

 men. 



Fig. 10. Capulus infu7idibulvm (M. &W.) A shell attached to the 

 anal surface of Platycrinus hemisphericus M. &. W. 



Fig. 11. Capulus equilateralis (HalY). An example adhering to the 

 calyx of Platycrinus hemisphericus M. & W. [Coll. 

 Wachsmuth and Springer.] 



Fig. 12. Capulus sulcatinus Keyes. 12a. View of the type speci- 

 men. 12b. Ventral view of another individual. 



Fig. 13. Capulus chesterens is (JSl. &V^^.) 13a, View from above of 

 a specimen resting on the ventral surface of Pterotocrimis 

 acutus Weth. 13b. Another example with the alate radial 

 dome plates of the crinoid broken away. [Both from Collec- 

 tion of Wachsmuth and Springer.] 13c, 13d. Lateral 

 aspects of two other individuals. 



Fig. 14. Cajndus parvus Swallow. 14a, 14b. Views of the type 

 specimen [Museum State University of Missouri]. 14c. 

 A larger example generally known as C. nebrascensis 

 (Meek). 

 [Unless otherwise stated all specimens here figured are in the col- 

 lection of C. R. Keyes.] 




182 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



May 6. 

 Dr. D. G. Brinton in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " New Myxomycetes in Century xxv of Ellis 

 and Everhart's North ximerican Fungi." By Geo. A. Kex. 

 The death of George S. Pepper, a member, was announced. 



May 13. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Twenty-eiglit persons present. 



May 20. 



The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



Hippotheriuvi and Rhinoceros from Florida. — Prof. Leidy re- 

 marked that with other fossils, which had been the subject of former 

 communications, collected by Joseph Willcox and Wm. M. INIeigs at 

 the phosphate bed of T. S. Morehead in Peace Creek, Florida, there 

 were a number of Horse teeth. These were regarded as having 

 pertained to the extinct indigenous species Equus major and E. 

 fraterniis. Among them was one, which from its general resem- 

 blance was included with the former, but since has been noticed by 

 the quickly observant eye of Prof Cope to belong to a Hippotheriimi. 

 The size of the tooth indicates the species to have been as large as 

 the ordinary domestic Horse and therefore the largest species of the 

 genus yet discovered. The specimen also represents the third species 

 found in Florida ; the others being the H. ingenuum and If.plicatile 

 (Proc. 1885, 33 ; 1887, 310). The tooth, a second or third upper 

 molar, is three inches long in its outer curvature and the worn trit- 

 urating surface, represented in the accom- 

 panying wood-cut, measures 15 lines fore and 

 aft and 14 lines transversely. The arrange- 

 ment of the enamel most nearly approximates 

 the condition observed in H. occidentale 

 from our western tertiary formation. The i 

 inner column, of uniform breadth the entire 

 length ofthe crown, measures half an inch fore 

 and aft, and in section is horizontally reni- 

 form. The species was a third larger than 

 the H. (jracile, the largest European form. Hiiipotiunum rnnceps. 

 From its size it may be distinguished with the name of Hippothe- 



RIUM PRINCEPS. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



Comparative measurements of the teeth of: 



H. ingenuum. H. plicatile. H. princeps. 

 Fore and aft diameter 19mm. 20mm, ' 82mm. 



Transverse do 17nim. 24mm. 31mm. 



The fossil bones from near Archer, Florida, which have been the 

 subjects of former brief communications (Proc. 1884, 118 ; 1885, 32 ; 

 1886, 11 ; 1887, 309) consist in greater part ofthe remains of a species 

 of Rhinoceros, distinguished as E. proterus. It was an animal ap- 

 proximating in size the living li. indicus, but had comparatively 

 short, robust limbs and was probably hornless. The remains 

 consist of teeth and bones, with fragments of others, mostly isolated, 

 of many individuals. Thus as an indication of the latter the collec- 

 tion contains 28 astragali and nearly a hundred complete metapodials. 

 The bones of the feet are remarkable for their short, robust char- 

 acter. Among the fossils are a few bones and teeth of a second 

 species of Rhinoceros, a little larger than the former and with feet 

 of the same proportions as in the recent Indian Rhinoceros. Of this 

 species the collection contains but a single imperfect astragalus. A 

 pair of metacarpals, the second and fourth, though of less breadth 

 than those of R. proterus, approximate double the length. The com- 

 parative measurements of the specimens are as follows : 

 Second metacarpal : R. long! pes. R. proterus. 



Length, in front, at middle . . 157mra. 92mra, 



Breadth of upper extremity . . , 45mm. 50mm. 



Breadth of lower articulation . . 39mm. 40mm. 



Fourth metacarpal : 



Length, in front, at middle . . 144mm. 81mm. 



Breadth of upper extremity . . 40mm. 44mm. 



Breadth of lower articulation . 35mm. 41mm. 



A carpal scaphoid in comparison with one of R. proterus presents 

 the following measurements. 



Extreme breadth .... 84mm. 85mm. 



Extreme height .... 60mm. 40mm. 



A pair of tusks, lower incisors, much worn, which have been about 

 8 inches long, are supposed to belong to R. proterus. They are 

 strongly curved much compressed fore and aft, and measure 

 47mm. wide by 33mm. thick at the base of the crown. Another 

 tusk, about a foot long, is supposed to have belonged to the other 

 species of Rhinoceros. It is less curved and more cylindrical than 

 the former, and at the base of the worn crown is 51mm. wide and 

 45mm, thick. 



For the second species the name of Rhinoceros longipes was 

 proposed. 



May 27. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 




184 ruocJcicDiXGS of the acadkmy of [1890. 



Mastodon and Capybara of South Carolina. — Professor Leidy 

 directed attention to several f(j.ssil.s and made the following remarks. 

 The exploration of the ])hosi)]iate beds of the South Atlantic States 

 })romises to give usjnuch information of the qnatenary fauna of the 

 region. jNIany interesting forms, both terrestrial and marine, have 

 been brought to our notice. Recently, the fine specimen of a 

 Mastodon tooth exhibited, looking as if carved out of ebony, as is 

 the case with many of the fossils from the same and similar localities, 

 \yas presented to the Academy by Mr. James R. McKee. It was 

 found in the Santee Beds of Beaufort Co., S. C. It is the complete 

 crown of a last upper molar, strikingly different from that tooth in 

 the common x\merican Mastodon. It is worn only on the summits 

 of the anterior pair of lobes, which display the usual exposed 

 dentinal areas. Notwithstanding the many species of Mastodon 

 which have been recorded in North and South America, the present 

 tooth seems to indicate a different one. It more nearly resembles the 

 corresponding tooth of the M. florldanus, recently described, or that 

 of the M. angustldens of Europe, than of the M. americanus. In 

 comparison with the molars of these and other known species the 

 tooth is remai'kable for the greater proportionate length of the con- 

 stituent lobes of the crown and their conspicuously wrinkled condi- 

 tion. The wrinkling is longitudinal and regular and apparently not 

 the result of an abnormal state. Similar wrinkling is observed 

 in some specimens of the same teeth in M. americanus, but mainly 

 confined to the intermediate vallies of the crown, while it is well 

 produced laterally in the present fossil. From the comparatively 

 more prolonged condition of the lobes, the summits of the inner ones 

 appear more tapering or narrowly pointed than in 31. fioridanus ; 

 while with the fore and aft extensions of the same lobes the summits 

 form acute and not obtuse angles as in the latter. Regarding the 

 specimen as indicating a previously unknown species, this may be 

 distinguished as the Mastodon rugosidens. 



Comparative measurements of the tooth are as follows : 



M. rugosidens. M. flo]'idanus. 



Length of crown fore and aft 



Breadth of base at fore part 



Length of second inner lobe 



Length of second outer lobe 



The second fossil is a fragment of an ui)per incisor of a Capybara, 

 from Ashley River, South Carolina, submitted for examination by 

 Mr. Edwin E. Howell, of the firm of Ward and Howell. Some speci- 

 mens of molar teeth from the same locality, previously described, do 

 not differ in any respect from those of the living species, but from 

 the conditions under which tliey Avere found were referred to a differ- 

 ent one with the name of Hydrocho'rus cesopi (Proc. 1856, 165). 



The present fossil accords in anatomical character except size 

 with the corresponding part in the living Capybara. Its compar- 

 ative measurements areas follows: 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



Fossil. Recent. 



Transverse diameter .... 16mm. 10mm. 



Fore and aft do 11 mm. ' 8mm. 



It perliaps pertains to the same species as the fragment of a man- 

 dible from Nicaragua, referred to Hydrochoerus rohustus (Proc. 

 1886, 275). 



Since the description of the latter, I have seen the notice of a 

 species, H. magnus, indicated by the ramus of a mandible found in 

 Buenos Ayres, S. A. (Gervais and Ameghino, Mammif Fossiles de 

 I'Amerique du Sud, Paris, 1880, 45). The size of the former 

 apj)ears to accord with that of the latter species, and they are 

 perhaps the same. The antero-posterior diameter of the first lower 

 molar attributed to H. rohustus is 25mm. Ameghino gives as the 

 same diameter of the second lower molar of H. magnus, 26mm. (Bol. 

 Acad. Nac. Ciencias, Buenos Ayres 1883, 273). In the recent 

 Capybara, the fore and aft diameter of the first and second lower 

 molars is nearly the same ; so that the measurement of the correspond- 

 ing teeth in the two fossils would indicate animals of the same size, 

 and it may be suspected, the same species. 



The following were elected members : — 



Alfred G. Baker, Charles Piatt, John Cadwalader, Clement A. 

 Oi'iscom, Charles P. Hayes, James iVIacAllister, Thomas Miles, 

 John C. Garland, Annesley R. Govett, David Milne and Caleb J. 

 Milne. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



NEW EAST INDIAN LAND SHELLS. 

 BY H. A. PIL8BRY. 

 Helicina Dentoni Pilsbry. 



Shell of a globose-conical form, but acutely keeled at the circum- 

 ference ; solid ; opaque-white, with dark red inner whorls and milk- 

 Avhite apex. Surface slightly shining, showing under a lens numer- 

 ous (about 14 on body-whorl) low, indistinct, spiral riblets. The 

 spire is conical, nearly straight-sided ; apex white ; the next two or 

 three whorls are a rich dark red color. There are 41 whorls, very 

 little convex, the last rather rounded but with an acute keel. 

 Aperture half-round, dark reddish orange inside ; lip expanded, 

 light salmon-colored. The pad at the umbilical region has a glassy, 

 faint bluish appearance. 



Alt. 7, greater diam. 84, lesser 7? mm. 



Oblique alt. of aperture 4i, greatest width 42 mm. 



One of the specimens has obscure, irregular, reddish spots on the 

 upper surface of the last and next earlier whorls. The species does 

 not appear in the Monographs, nor in the more recent publications 

 of Tapparone-Canefri (Ann. Mus. Civ. Genova) and others. It is 

 named in honor of Mr. William Denton, who collected the speci- 

 mens in New Guinea. 

 Nanina Kuschenbergeri Pilsbry. 



Shell large, depressed, thick and solid, rudely striate, deeply and 

 perspectively umbilicated. 



Solid and strong, opaque. The specimens are dead, lusterless and 

 destitute of epidermis, of a dirty-Avhite color with either (1) a single 

 narrow peripheral brown girdle, the umbilicus brown inside, or (2) a 

 broad brown girdle encircling the middle ofthe whorl, or (3) the up- 

 per surface of the last Avhorl brown except for a light girdle just 

 above the periphery, below which there is a broad zone, its lower 

 edge fading out on the base, the periphery itself marked by a 

 narrow darker band ; in all the forms the umbilicus is brown in- 

 side and the whorls of the spire light, the apex somewhat rufous. 

 The surface has very coarse and uneven, irregular, oblique strias 

 above ; they are weaker below ; and under a lens, close incised 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIEXCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



187 



spiral lines become visible, mak- 

 ing the surface granulate ; tliey 

 are nearly obsolete on the body- 

 whorl, but usually distinct inside 

 the umbilicus and on the earlier 

 whorls. The spire is low, ob- 

 tuse ; sutures deeply impressed. 

 Whorls 6, slowly widening, the 

 inner three somewhat protruding 

 above the outer ; the last whorl 

 very convex above, obsoletely 

 angled on its earlier portion, be- 

 coming rounded, shortly but de- 

 cidedly deflexed in front. Aper- 

 ture very oblique, rounded-lu- 

 nate ; peristome expanded on its 

 outer margin, reflexed, blunt 

 and much thickened on the 

 basal and columellar margins. 

 Umbilicus deep, permitting one 

 to see to the apex, and funnel- 

 shaped. 



Alt. 22, greater diam. 42, lesser 

 37 mm. ; width of umbilicus 8 

 mm. ; oblique alt. of mouth 

 (meas. outside perist.) 21, width 

 21 mm. 

 Another specimen measures : Alt. 22, diam. 45 mm. 



Habitat, Liu-Kiu Is. (Dr. Ruschenberger). 

 This is a very solid, heavy form, apparently belonging to the 

 group of H. pallasiana Pfr. but very different from that species in 

 its much more convex whorls, deeper suture, more broadly ex- 

 panded umbilicus, and in the rounded body-whorl, the earlier part 

 of which is very acutely carinated in H. jxdlaslana. There are four 

 specimens befoi-e me, one of them about half grown, the others adult. 

 The young shell is very obtusely angled at the periphery ; the strite 

 are minutely granulated. The embryonic shell is large, about one- 

 fifth the diam. of the adult, composed of about 2f whorls, of which 

 the outer lA are finely, distinctly granulate, the inner ones having 

 low, curved, radiating little folds. The termination of the embry- 

 onic shell is marked bv a distinct line. 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF HELIX. 

 BY JOHN FORD. 

 Helix (Planispira) Deaniana Fonl. 



Shell uml)ilicate(l, discoidal, flattened above and below ; thin but 

 solid ; white, with a broad chestnut-brown zone encircling the last 

 whorl just above the periphery, and continued on the next whorl 

 immediately above the suture. 



Surface comjjaratively smooth, the growth strise being very faint. 

 AVhorls 4i, convex, the inner ones sunken a trifle below the level of 

 the penultimate whorl, which projects slightly above the last whorl. 

 The latter is large, rounded above, below and at the periphery, 

 slowly descending in front to about the middle of the preceding 

 Avhorl ; narrowly constricted behind the basal lip, much inflated just 

 behind the constriction and obliquely excavated in the umbilicus 

 behind the columellar lip. Aperture very oblique, rotund, lunar, 

 Avhite, showing the brown bands inside. Lip broadly expanded on 

 upper and outer margins, very narrowly reflexed on the basal and 

 columellar. The outer and basal portions are of a beautiful pink 

 rose-color. The parietal wall has a thin wash of callus. Umbilicus 

 funnel-shaped and slightly impinged upon by the columellar lip. 



Alt. Hi, greater diam. 26, lesser 20 mill. 



Aperture, oblique alt. 16, breadth 14? mm. including peristome. 

 Width of umbilicus 2=j mm. Hab. New Guinea. Though resem- 

 bling somewhat the figure of H. tortilabia in Reeve's Monograph 

 (PI. 92, fig. 498), it has a far more broadly expanded superior lip, 

 narrower baso-columellar lip, and the body-whorl is much less gib- 

 bous behind the lip than in Reeve's figure. 



This beautiful species was collected in the interior of New Guinea 

 by the late Mr. Wm. Denton and presented to the Academy by his 

 son, Mr. Shelley Denton, of Wellesley, Mass. 



It has been named in honor of Mr. Geo. W. Dean of Kent, Ohio, a 

 dear friend of both gentlemen, and a most worthy student of con- 

 chological science. 




1890.] natural sciences of thiladelphia. 189 



June 3. 

 Mr. Theo. D. Rand in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



June 10. 



Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Richard K. Betts, a member, May 29th, was 

 announced. 



June 17. 

 ]Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



The death of Isaac J. Williams, a member, June 10, was 

 announced. 



Marine and Fresh Water Diatoms and Sponge-Spicules from the 

 Delaware River Clays of Philadelphia. — Mr. Lewis Woolman ex- 

 hibited under the microscope, in connection -with the Microscopical 

 and Biological Section, specimens of sponge spicules and diatoms from 

 the Philadelphia clays and stated respecting them that about a 

 year ago Mr. C. Henry Kain remarked to him that a pupil in a 

 public school of the city had handed him, in 1884, a lump of blue 

 clay with the broad but rather indefinite information that it was 

 obtained from a cellar near 8th and Vine streets, and that it con- 

 tained diatoms, which on further examination proved to be salt 

 water forms. 



Mr. Kain at that time catalogued the forms but did not publish 

 the discovery because unable to exactly locate and positively identify 

 the bed from which the clay had been obtained and also because 

 some question had been raised as to the probability of marine species 

 occurx'ing in Philadelphia clays. 



The tearing down of the houses at the south-west corner of 9th 

 and ^Market streets, formerly occupied by ^Messrs. Cooper & Conard, 

 preparatory to the erection of a new building to be used by their 

 successors, Messrs. Granville B. Haines ct Co., recently presented an 

 opportunity to investigate the subject referred to by Mr. Kain. 



In deepening the cellar and digging still lower for the foundations, 

 a bed of clay was encountered varying from whitish and yellowish 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



tobluij-h in color. In the northwest corner of the basement this bed 

 was found ten feet below the pavement ; from this point it has a slight 

 but irregular dip toward the southeast. It has a thickness of about 

 six feet and rests upon gravel which varies in different ])laces from 

 a sharp sand to a coarse gravel containing some extra large pebbles. 

 Enclosed within the clay on the 9th street side are some thin len- 

 ticular-shaped deposits of sand. 



A careful examination of all portions of the clay which was here 

 exposed over an area of 120 feet by 132 feet revealed the presence of 

 .sponge spicules in considerable numbers, Init more numerous at the 

 bottom than at the top of the bed. Many were of the pin-head 

 forms characteristic of salt water. A very few marine diatoms 

 Avere also observed. 



Within a week after the preceding investigations some bluish 

 clay belonging to the same bed was obtained from an excavation at 

 9th & Race streets. The clay is here a few feet nearer the street 

 level. At this point sponge spicules and diatoms occur, both in 

 abundance. The diatoms show a mixture of salt water and fresh 

 water forms. About fifty species have been observed, two-thirds 

 being marine and one-third fresh water. Numerically, how- 

 ever, probably seven-eighths of the individual forms are marine. 

 Among the sponge spicules the characteristic marine forms with pin 

 head termination at one end were here again observed. Here also 

 the life forms were more plentiful in the lower part of the bed. 



What is probably the same clay bed and likewise containing 

 marine spicules and diatoms has been met with at 11th and Cherry 

 streets, about two feet below the pavement in an excavation for an 

 underground telegraph conduit. 



Clay with marine spicules has also been obtained from a depth of 

 two and a half feet at 15tli and Summer streets and also from be- 

 neath the basement floor of the City Hall. 



The inference to be drawn from these facts is that the former and 

 wider ocean estuary of Delaware Bay covered the site of Philadelphia 

 with its saline waters and that its life forms were mainly marine, but 

 that it w^as subject to considerable invasion of fresh water from tlie 

 river and neighboring streams, and thus fresh water forms were 

 brought into association with marine species. 



Mixtures of salt and fresh-water diatoms have also been found in 

 deposits near the present borders of the Delaware and Schuylkill 

 rivers. They occur at lower levels than that of the clay bed at 9th 

 and 3Iarket streets and probably belong to a lower flood plain of the 

 rivers and would therefore be more recent in date. The Delaware 

 Bay had by this time considerably diminished in width but the pres- 

 ence of marine diatoms would indicate the continuance of ocean water 

 influences up to the latitude of Philadel[)hia until quite recently. 

 The assemblage of salt and fresh water diatoms now referred to were 

 found in borings preliminary to work done or to be done for the 

 foundations of the eastern abutments of the Chestnut and Walnut 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



street ])ridge.s over the Schuylkill also in a boring made l)elo\v the 

 bottom of the Schuylkill in searching for a suitable foundation for the 

 central j)ier of the pivot bridge at Penrose Ferry. These borings 

 Avere furnished by S. L. Smedley, City Surveyor. IMarine and fresh 

 water diatoms were also met with in abundance near Reed street 

 wharf on the Dehiware river in clay from an excavation twenty feet 

 or more in depth made for the construction of a water tank for the 

 use of Spreckels' Sugar Refinery. 



Dr. F. W. Lewis in the Proceedings for 1861 evidently refers to 

 this same deposit when on page 62 he says : " The old estuary bed 

 of the Delaware (blue clay) was very rich in these forms" (i. e. brack- 

 ish and marine) " and by digging down a short distance at any part 

 of the meadowland bordering the river the blue clay which contains 

 them may be exposed." 



In connection with these remarks, and as completing the record of 

 discoveries relating to diatoms in Philadelphia clays, it may be well 

 to refer to an exclusive fresh water deposit brought to the notice of 

 the Academy by Prof G. A. Koenig, in November, 1885, and by 

 Aubrey H. Smith in May, 1886. This was found in the bottom of 

 the cut of the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. south of Gray's Ferry road. 

 The same bed has since been seen by the speaker in the bottom of 

 an excavation made for Reed street sewer near where it passes under 

 the Baltimore and Ohio R. R. and about three blocks from the 

 former locality. 



This fresh water bed occupies a higher level than the marine depos- 

 its bordering the rivers. It underlies the clays used for brick mak- 

 ing in the vicinity, and is separated therefrom by a few feet of gravel 

 and must itself lie very close to or upon the micaceous rocks under- 

 lying and surrounding the city, and which outcrop between tlie points 

 where the deposit has been observed and the Schuylkill River. 

 From information obtained from workmen at the locality the bed is 

 believed to be about ten feet thick. Its exact relation to the marine 

 and mixed deposits previously described in this communication has 

 not yet been determined. 



June 24. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Seventy-six persons present. 



Mexican Explorations.— Frof. Angelo Heilprin made a prelimi- 

 nary report on the work accomplished by the exploring party which 

 went to Mexico in February last. It was announced that detailed 

 reports of the expedition were being prepared and would be pre- 

 sented for publication later in the year. 



Mr. J. Dundas Lippincott was elected a member. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF THREE NEW SPECIES OF MYXOMYCETES, WITH 



NOTES ON OTHER FORMS IN CENTURY XXV, OF ELLIS 



AND EVERH ART'S NORTH AMERICAN FUNGI. 



BY GEO. A. KEX. 



The ]\Iyxoniycetes recently issued in Century XXV of T^. A. 

 Fungi, E. and E., include an unusual number of representative 

 American species. The following specific diagnoses and descriptions 

 apply to three of these, which have hitherto been undescribed. 



Physarum tenerum n. sji., No. 2489. 



Sporangia stipitate, erect or nodding, exactly spherical in shape, 

 about ^ mm. in diameter ; wall of sporangium single, membrana- 

 ceous, but thickly studded with circular, flattened, yellow granules of 

 lime, rupturing when mature in a more or less regularly laciniate 

 manner. Stipes from 1 to 1 2 mm. in height, subulate, opaque, blen- 

 der, of a light yellow color above, shading into a light brown below, 

 longitudinally striate at the base or sometimes the entire length ; colu- 

 mella wanting. Capillitium white, delicate, forming a loosely but 

 regularly meshed network, with numerous small round or rounded 

 yellow lime granules at the intersections. Spores dark brown, 7.5 

 to 8 p.. in diameter, with a delicately warted epispore which, 

 however, is apparently smooth under a less amplification than about 

 700 diameters. 



Fairmount Park, Philadelphia ; Ohio, (Morgan.) 



This is a delicate graceful Physarum, very fragile and evanescent, 

 and seems to be distinct, by reason of its characteristic rounded lime 

 granules, from any similar stipitate species. It might be mistaken 

 for a globose form of Tllmadoche mutahUis but the capillitium is 

 sufficiently distinctive. 



The species varies somewhat according to locality, the Ohio speci- 

 mens being a little larger, and having thicker and more calcareous 

 stipes than is usual in the specimens found in the vicinity of Phila- 

 delphia. The walls of the sporangia when fully matured, generally 

 rupture into several petal-like segments which finally become re- 

 flexed. 



Trichia subfusca n. sp., No. 2495. 



Sporangia stipitate, simple, very rarely double or triple, generally 

 exactly spherical, exceptionally globose-turbinate, about 2 to i of a 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



mm. in diameter. Color of sporangia, a dull tawny brown above, 

 shading to a dark brown at the base. Stipes uniform in dianxeter, 

 and equal in height to the diameter of the sporangium, brown or 

 brownish-black in color, longitudinally rugose and separated from 

 the cavity of the sporangia by the intenial layer of the sporan- 

 gium wall. Spores and capillitium concolorous, of a bright yellow 

 color in mass. 



Elaters cylindrical 8.5 to 4 //. in diameter, terminating gen- 

 erally in a smooth elongated end 10-12 ,a. long, which is 

 either sharp or blunt, straight or curved to one side. Spirals four 

 in number, non-spinulose, winding more or less unevenly, with inter- 

 spaces as wide or wider than the thickness of the spirals. Spores 

 11.5 to 12.5 //. in diameter delicately but distinctly warted. 



Adirondack Mts., New York. 



This Trichia is more nearly allied to some of the forms of Tr.fragilis 

 than to any other species. There seem, however, to be sufficiently well- 

 marked specific differences. In addition to the different external char- 

 acters, the elaters are undoubtedly cylindrical in a majority of the 

 specimens. Occasionally individual sporangia are found in which the 

 elaters are a little thicker in the center, narrowing slightly toward the 

 ends, but even these exceptions terminate abruptly in the same form of 

 ends as the true cylindrical elaters. Occasionally also, as with all 

 Trichias, sporangia will be found in which the elaters are branched 

 or distorted, or have a tendency to bulbous expansions near the ends 

 or in their course, but these are abnormal and exceptional. The speci- 

 mens distributed under this number (2495) were collected in August, 

 1889, with a few exceptions. The unusually wet season had the 

 eflTect of rendering many of them much darker in color than is in- 

 dicated in the foregoing specific diagnosis, which was drawn from 

 types developed and collected under the most favorable conditions. 

 Trichia erecta n. sp., No. 2496. 



Sporangia stipitate, usually simple, occasionally double or triple 

 and very rarely fasciculate, with a cluster of 6 to 8 on a single stipe. 

 Single sporangia globose or globose-turbinate * to I of a mm. in the 

 transverse diameter. 



Color of sporangia a dark nut brown, which is uniform below, but 

 checkered or broken above into irregular patches with broad septa 

 of a bright yellow color. 



Stipes about 1 mm. in height, rough or granular on the surface, 

 quite thick and equal throughout their length, and dark brown in 

 14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



color. Spores and capillitiuni concolorous, being a bright yellow 

 color in mass. 



Elaters cylindrical, 3.75 to 4 p.. in diameter terminating in 

 short, sharp, smootli ends 4 to 6 //-. long. Elater spirals 4 in 

 number, spinulo.se with numerous irregular spines, coarse, winding 

 irregularly. Adjoining .spirals often united with each other by in- 

 terspiral branches whicli run either longitudinally or obliquely in 

 the direction of the spirals. 



Sjiores 12-13 p. in diameter, delicately warted when examined 

 under a high power lens. 



Shawaugunk and Adirondack Mts., N. Y. 



This Trichiais conspicuous for the checkering or areolation of the 

 upper surface in the perfectly mature sporangia, showing a sharp 

 contrast between the adjoining nut brown and bright yellow 

 colors. In this respect it resembles Tr. fragilis which sometimes 

 exhibits in its var. lateritia and also in one of its simple forms, a dull 

 mottling of the color of the upper surface of the sporangia. 



The following species of Myxomycetes, also among those issued in 

 the same Century, present special points worthy of record : — 

 Didymium eximium Pk., No. 2493. 



The specimens distributed under this number correspond with the 

 type of the species in the Herbarium of the N. Y. State Museum of 

 !Nat. History in Albany. 



The thick yellow papyraceous or crustaceous walls of this inter- 

 esting Didymium are generally permanent at the base, forming a sort 

 of receptacle or cup. Tlie white surface crystals of lime character- 

 istic of the genus are scanty and occasionally wanting. The colu- 

 mellas are yellow in color, discoid, exceedingly rough on the upper 

 surface and sometimes spinulose even to the extent of long spicules 

 (in exceptional cases), penetrating to one-third the height of the 

 sporangia. 



The specimens under Xo. 2089, N. A. Fungi E. and E., which 

 were also distributed as D. eximium Pk. differ in many respects 

 from those just described, the sporangium walls being thin, mem- 

 branaceous and translucent, when divested of the abundant, snow- 

 white crystals of lime by which they are covered. The stipes are 

 longer, darker and more slender, and the columellas, also discoid, 

 are less roughened above and either pure white or yellowish-white 

 in color. The spores in both forms are delicately warted when seen 

 under a high power lens. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



Having collected and examined the specimens issued under both 

 of these numbers, I believe them to be referable legitimately to 'the 

 same s])ecies. 



They apparently form the extreme limits of what must be consid- 

 ered an extremely variable species, the intermediate and connecting 

 links of which exist, and can be demonstrated by the examination 

 of a sufficient number of specimens developed in different localities 

 under varying conditions of growth. 



Badhamia lilacina Fr., No. 2494. 



It is difficult for a student of the American Myxomycetes to de- 

 termine with certainty the species distributed under this number, 

 from the published descriptions. The proverbial inadequacy of de- 

 scriptions alone, in many cases, to create an intelligent conception 

 of the objects described, is in this instance abundantly illustrated. 

 The specimens distributed were all collected in the mountain dis- 

 tricts of New York, and may be considered as representing the Amer- 

 ican form of this species. In some of its characters, this form differs 

 so much from the original description of Fries and the later one of 

 Rostafinski (as given in the Myxomycetes of Great Britain — Cooke), 

 that an enlarged description is necessary to cover the points of dif- 

 ference. The most notable of these are the occasional development 

 of stipes, and the existence of a crustaceous layer of lime on the out- 

 side walls of the sporangia, which crumbles and falls away in flakes 

 at maturity, as in some of the double-walled Chondriodermas. 



In the form in which it is found in New York and Pennsylvania 

 the species may therefore be described as follows : 



Sporangia closely aggregated, globose or obovate, usually sessile 

 or substipitate, and occasionally stipitate. If stipitate, the stipe is 

 short, varying in size from a mere point to i of a mm. in height, 

 light chestnut-brown in color and longitudinally striate. 



Color of sporangia generally dull white above, becoming dusky 

 about the middle of the sporangia and shading into a bright brown 

 at the base. Capillitium white, composed of coarse irregular tubes 

 filled with snow-white granules of lime, radiating from the center, 

 which in most sporangia is occupied by a columella-like mass of 

 lime to the wall of the sporangia, and communicating with each 

 other by lateral branches. 



Walls of sporangia thick, composed of a membranaceous internal 

 layer, coated externally with a thick, easily separable layer of lime, 

 which ultimately breaks and falls away. Spores dark violet 11.5 to 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



12.5 !i. in diameter, with thick epispores .studded irregularly 

 with peculiar, bluut, elongated projections, each of which by the use 

 of a higli power lens can be resolved into from 2 to 8 or more minute, 

 irregularly cylindrical processes standing side by side, apparently 

 joined by their bases, in rank or in irregular angular clusters. 



The spore sculpturing is absolutely characteristic, and is the same 

 in both European and American specimens. It does not resemble 

 that of any known spore of the Myxomycetes and is well shown by 

 the illustration in Rostafinski's Monografia Sluzowce. 



The color of the sporangia is often modified, as is the case with 

 some of the specimens distributed under No. 2494, by the readiness 

 with which the external limy layer is stained by rain water, tinged 

 with coloring matter from the decaying leaves on which the spor- 

 angia may be developed. 



As the result of immaturity or imperfect development, a few in- 

 dividuals of a cluster of sporangia, may occasionally be found lack- 

 ing the external layer of lime, either wholly or in part, in which 

 case the membranaceous wall is beautifully iridescent. 



The stipitate sporangia are solitary, not gregarious in habit of 

 growth. They are ellipsoidal or obovate in shape and j^robably 

 represent the highest stage of development of the species. 




1890.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 197 



July 1, 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" The Spider Fauna of the Upper Cayuga Basin." By Nathan 

 Banks. 



" On a new Genus of Colubridae from Florida." By Arthur 

 Erwin Brown. 



July 8. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



July 15. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Sixteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "On Birds collected in Yucatan and Southern 

 Mexico," by Witmer Stone, was presented for publication. 



July 22. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants. No. 5." By 

 Thomas Meehan. 



"An Account of the Vincelonian Volcano." By Benjamin 

 Sharp, M. D. 



The death of James \y. Queen, a member, on the 12th inst., was 

 announced. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled " The Spider Fauna of the Upper Cayuga Basin," 

 by Nathan Banks, in the Journal of the Academy. 




198 proceedings of the academy of [1890. 



July 29. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled "Barometric Observations on the Heights of 

 Mexican Volcanoes with a Consideration of the Culminating Point 

 of the North American Continent," by Prof Angelo Heilprin, was 

 presented for publication. 



. Mr. George Frederick Kunz of New York was elected a Corres- 

 pondent. 



The following were ordered to be i:)rinted : — 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



ON A NEW GENUS OF COLUBRIDJE FROM FLORIDA. 

 BY ARTHUR ERWIN BROWN. 



The snake described below was caj^tured at Lake Kerr, Florida, 

 and Avas lately received at the Zoological Garden from jNIr. N. P. 

 Fry, of that place. As I am unable to refer it to any heretofore 

 described genus of Colnbridce, the genus Stilosoma is established to 

 receive it. 



STILOSOMA genus nov. 



Generic Characters. — Body very slender, cylindrical and rigid ; 

 tail short ; head rounded on frontal outline, not distinct from body. 

 Rosti'al prominent but not recurved ; no prefrontals, anteorbitals 

 or loreal. One nasal. Postfrontals and occipitals in contact with 

 labials. Scales smooth. No scale pits. Anal entire. Teeth smooth. 

 Palatal teeth present. 



S. extenuata, species nov. 



Eye moderately small. One nasal with nostril in the center. 

 Postfrontals large, in contact with the second and third labials and 

 forming, with the latter, the anterior border of the orbit. Vertical 

 hexagonal, the anterior angle obtuse. Superciliaries short and 

 broad. Occipitals large, boundi-ng the postorbitals behind and 

 touching the fifth labial. Two small postorbitals, the lower one 

 resting on a notch between the fourth and fifth labials. Three 

 temporals in a horizontal series ; the first lying between the fifth and 

 sixth labials and ten occipitals. Six superior labials ; third and 

 fourth in orbit ; fifth largest. Five lower labials ; fourth very 

 large. Three pairs of thin shields. Nineteen rows of dorsal scales, 

 lozenge shaped and perfectly smooth. 



Abdominal scutellte 285. Subcaudals small in 44 pairs. 



Ground color silvery-gray, with sixty-one dorsal spots of dark 

 brown with blackish border, from head to anus and eleven on the 

 tail. Anteriorly, the spots are from two to four scales long and 

 from five to seven wide ; posteriorly becoming smaller. The inter- 

 spaces are about equal in length to two spots and have the three 

 median rows of scales mottled with pale red. Under surface of 

 body silvery gray, much blotched with black, which runs up on the 

 three exterior rows of scales, opposite the intervals between the 

 dorsal spots. On the sides, each light scale is finely jjunctuated with 




200 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



black. An elongated, triangular dark patch on the occipitals, 

 pointing backward and a small dark blotch just below it on each 

 side of the neck. A dark bar running back from the eye on the 

 upper margin of the labials. The foi'epart of the head and the chin 

 and throat much maculated with black. 



Total length of specimen 532 mm. (21 in.). Length of tail 50 

 mm. (2 in.). 



The general coloring of the specimen is much like that of Rhino- 

 chilis lecontii, but the generic and other characters render it im- 

 possible to confuse it with that or any other North American species. 

 The fact that but one specimen has yet been collected in a region 

 so comparatively well known as northern Florida renders it probable 

 that the species is of extreme rarity. 



The specimen is hei-ewith presented to the Academy. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



ON BIRDS COLLECTED IN YUCATAN AND SOUTHERN MEXICO. 

 \ BY WITMER STONE. 



The collections here described were made by INIr, F. C. Baker and 

 myself on the recent expedition from the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia under the charge of Prof. Angelo Heilprin. 

 The principal districts where collections were made were in north 

 western Yucatan and on the JNIexican highlands in the immediate 

 vicinity of the peak of Orizaba. For convenience, I will treat of 

 the two regions separately. 



Yucatan. 



The country throughout the north-western part of the peninsula 

 is flat and dry. There are no surface streams whatever, the water 

 being obtained from deep wells. On the western side, fifty miles 

 south from the north coast, is a range of hills running northwest and 

 southeast. The following is a brief description of the most impor- 

 tant points where specimens were collected : — 



At Progreso, on the north coast, the shore is lined with extensive 

 sand hills covered by a low growth of Palmetto, Cactus and various 

 thorny bushes. These sand hills extend back from the beach for 

 about half a mile and are characterized by such birds as the Car- 

 dinal, Cactus Wre?n, Lawrence's Gnatcatcher and Mocking bird. 

 Farther inland are low mud flats bordering the Mangrove swamps 

 and lagoons which separate the strip of land on which Progreso is 

 situated from the mainland. On the mud flats and along the edge 

 of the mangroves, are found Bryant's Warbler, Myrtle Warbler, 

 Ked-wing Blackbird and Vermilion Flycatcher, while about the 

 lagoons various water-birds abound, especially the Louisiana Heron 

 and American Egret. 



Farther inland, the country is very stony and covered with a 

 scrubby growth six to ten feet high, composed mainly of various 

 thorny leguminous bushes. At Tekanto, about fifty miles to the 

 southeast, situated in the midst of this scrubby forest, a number of 

 species were collected. The most characteristic birds found here were 

 the Cardinal, Mockingbird, Blue-Gray Gnatcatcher, Parula War- 

 bler, Oriole, Groove-billed Crotophaga, Motmot and Chaparral Cock, 

 while about the haciendas or ranchos were found the Great-tailed 

 Grackle, Ground Doves and Uxmal Woodpecker. Birds were also 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890, 



collected along tlie Valladolid road from Tekanto to Tunkas espe- 

 cially near Izanial, Sitilpech and Shkolak. At the first of these 

 localities the forest is about the same as at Tekanto but after pass- 

 ing Sitilpech it becomes much denser and is not so dry, the trees are 

 much larger and are covered with orchids and bromelias. Here we 

 began to encounter birds of a more tropical character such as the 

 Yucatan Blue Jay, Aztec Paroquet, Guatemalan Ivory-billed Wood- 

 pecker, Booted Trogon and Euphonia. 



The vegetation is densest about half way between Sitilpech and - 

 Tunkas where there are two large pools of water or aguadas, at 

 Shkolak and Skashek, which probably communicate with under- 

 ground water courses. These are surrounded on all sides by a 

 luxuriant forest growth, and birds of all sorts abound. Several 

 species of water birds were seen here, most prominent among which 

 was the Mexican Jacana. Among the smaller birds the Tyrant 

 Flycatchers probably outnumbered all the others together — the 

 Giraud's Flycatcher being the most abundant. 



Along the range of hills to the west, collections were made at the 

 hacienda of Calcehtok near the western end of the range and at 

 Ticul, Uxmal and Labna. At Ticul the vegetation was much the 

 same as at Tekanto but on the southern side of the hills in the vicin- 

 ity of Labna it was denser and more tropical and the character of 

 the birds seen at the two places varied accordingly. 



Our visit to Yucatan (Feb. 22nd to March 26th) occurred during 

 the dry season and was probably not the best time for collecting 

 birds, as we were told that a little litter there was a migration of 

 birds to the northern part of the peninsula and that the more tropi- 

 cal species were then much more abundant. 



The following is a list of all the species observed by us with 

 such notes as we were able to gather in regard to their habits, etc. : 



1. Podilymbus podiceps (L.)? Pied-billed Grebe. 



Several birds supposed to belong to this species were seen swim- 

 ming in the aguada at Schkolak, but no specimens were obtained. 



2. Larus argentatus smitlisoniaiius Coues. Herring Gull. 



One seen flying about the vessel while at anchor off Progreso^ 

 March 22nd. 



3. Larus atricilla Linn. Laughing Gull, 

 Common off Progreso, March 22nd. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



4. Anhinga anhinga Tiinn. Snake biixl. 



Several seen ou the lagoon back of Progreso ; said to be common. 



5. Pelecanus fuscus Linn. Brown Pelican. 



Several of these birds were always to be seen fishing close to the 

 beach at Progreso. They appeared to be very tame, coming close 

 up to the pier where boats were being unloaded. 



6. Fregata aquila (Linn.). Man-o'-War Bird. 



Very common off the coast. Both old and young were seen, though 

 the former appeared the more numerous. Sometimes as many as 

 one hundred could be seen in one flock. 



7. Anas discors Linn. Bine-winged Teal. 



Several were observed on the lagoon back of Progreso, March 

 19th, and one specimen was shot. 



8. Anser ? 



On the night of March 19th great numbers of geese were seen and 

 heard flying overhead, following the coast line in a northeasterly 

 direction. Unfortunately no specimens were procured. 



9. Phoenicopterus ruber Linn. Flamingo. 



Said to be common along the coast but not seen during our stay. 



10. Ardea herodias Linn. Great Blue Heron. 



Found in the swamps back of Progreso. 



11. Ardea egretta Gmelin. American Egret. 



Very common flying about over the lagoons and mangrove 

 swamj^s along the coast. We secured no siDCcimens. 



12. Ardea caerulea Linn. Little Blue Heron. 

 One seen on the aguada at Shkolak. 



13. Ardea tricolor ruficoUis (Gosse). Louisiana Heron. 



Very common in the mangrove swamps at Progreso. 



14. Ardea virescens Linn. Green Heron. 



One seen near Progreso. 



15. Gallinula galeata (Licht.) ? Florida Gallinule. 



One bird seen swimming on the aguada at Shkolak supposed to be 

 this species. 



16. Aegialitis vocifera (Linn.). Killdeer. 



One shot on the mud flats back of Progreso, March 20th. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



17. Jacana gymnostoma (Wagl.). Mexican Jacana. 



These birds were very common about the aguadas at Shkolak but 

 were exceediDgly shy and kept hidden in the dense growth of sedge, 

 only occasionally venturing out on to the large water-lily leaves 

 which cover the surface of the water, in search of food. When 

 roused by a shot they flew across the water uttering a plaintive cry 

 and with their long feet stretched out behind. "When on the wing 

 the yellow markings are very prominent. 



18. Colinus nigrogularis ; Gould). Yucatan Bob White. 



Common in the forest along the road south of Izamal in flocks of 

 twelve to twenty. Several specimens were shot. 



19. Meleagris ocellata, Temm. Oeellated Turkey. 



Several seen in the woods near Tekanto, Feb. 28th. Unfortu- 

 nately none were secured. 



20. Columba fiavirostris Wagl.? Eed-billed Pigeon. 



Several large pigeons were seen near Tunkas which probably be- 

 longed to this species. 



21. Melopelia leucoptera (Linn.). AVhite- winged Dove. 



This species was rather common throughout the interior and was 

 generally seen in pairs. 



22. Columbigallina passerina pallescens (Baird). Mexican Ground Dove. 

 Very common everywhere about the haciendas and along the 



roads. Specimens were shot at Tekanto and Ticul, 



23. Columbigallina rufipennis (Bonap.). Rufous Ground Dove. 



Not so conmion as the preceding. Specimen procured at Tekanto, 

 Feb. 28th. 



24. Cathartes aura (Linn.). Turkey Vulture. 



Occasionally seen at Tekanto and Tunkas, and more frequently 

 between Ticul and Uxmal along the base of the hills. Nowhere 

 common. 



25. Catharista atrata (Bart.). Black Vulture. 



Everywhere abundant and extremely tame. A " nest " containing 

 eggs was found near Tekanto about February 15th. 



26. Geranospizias caerulescens (Vieill.). 



A fine specimen was shot at the aguada at Shkolak. 



27. Rupornis rufioauda (Scl. & Salv.). 



This appeared to be the most common hawk along the road south 

 of Izamal. Several specimens were shot. One, a young male 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



(Izamal, Mar. 6), has the breast bufFy-white longitudinally striped 

 with brown, while the whole upper surface is of a browner hue than 

 in the adult. All the specimens have the ground color of the tail 

 ashy-gray. 



28. Asturina plagiata (Licht.). Mexican Goshawk. 



A fine specimen of this hawk was shot near Tunkas, March 3rd. 

 It has the bands on the tail nearly pure white. 



29. Spiziastur melanoleucus (Vieill.).? 



A large hawk supposed to be this species was frequently seen in 

 the vicinity of Tekanto and Sitilpech. 



30. Falco sparverius (Linn.). Sparrow Ilawk. 



Common on the hills at Calcehtok. A few were also seen at 

 Izamal and at Progreso. 



31. Glaucidium phalaenoides (Daud.). Ferruginous Pigmy Owl. 



One seen in the woods near Tunkas. Mar. 3rd. It was in the rufous 

 phase of plumage. 



32. Chrysotis albifrons (Sparrm.). W^hite-fronted Parrot. 



This parrot was first met with in the forest west of Tunkas, only 

 one flock of about half a dozen were seen and one Specimen was pro- 

 cured. Several were afterwards seen at Citilpech. They were very 

 noisy. 



33. Conurus aztec Souance. Aztec Paroquet. 



The Paroquet Avas common in the forest between Sitilpech and 

 Tunkas usually associating in large flocks. Whenever one was shot 

 the rest rose on the wing and flew over the trees filling the air with 

 their harsh cries. A few small flocks were seen at Tekanto, Ticul 

 and Labna. 



34. Crotophaga sulcirostris (Sw.). Groove-billed Ani. 



This bird was common everywhere in the interior being most 

 abundant in the open portions of the forest and, unlike the other 

 " Blackbirds" of the country, was seldom .seen about the Indian huts, 

 towns, or haciendas. A few were seen in the scrubby growth on 

 the sandhills at Progreso. 



35. Geococcyx affinis Hartl. Mexican Road-runner. 



This bird was only met with in the scrubby woods about Tekanto. 

 It does not seem to be common as only three individuals were seen. 

 Two were shot while running rapidly through the brush, the other 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



was seen early in the morning perched on top of a small bush ; when 

 alarmed it jumped to the ground and made oft' through the under- 

 brush. When running through the brush these birds bear a strik- 

 ing' resemblance to the Iguauos which abound in the region. 



36. Piaya cayana (Linn.). 



Only seen on the hills near Ticul. This species did not seem to 

 be common and no specimens were procured. 



37. Trogon caligatus Gould. Booted Trogon. 



Only one specimen of this beautiful bird was seen. This was shot 

 in the forest west of Tunkas. 



38. Eumomota superciliaris (Sw.). 



Rather common, seen at Tekanto, Tunkas and Ticul. Frequent 

 about towns and haciendas. 



39. Ceryle alcyon (Linn.). Belted Kingfisher. 



A Kingfisher was seen at the aguada at Shkolak and again at 

 Progreso. It appeared to be identical with our common northern bird 

 but as no specimens were procured the identification remains in 

 doubt. 



40. Campephilus guatemalensis (Hartl.) Guatemalan Woodpecker. 



Two were seen in the deep forest west of Tunkas, March 4th, and 

 others near Labna. One specimen Avas procured. 



41. Dryobates scalaris parvus (Cabot). Cabot's Woodpecker. 



Rather common through the interior, specimens were procured at 

 Tunkas and Tekanto. 



42. Centurus dubius (Cabot). Uxmal Woodpecker. 



Very common everywhere in the interior. Specimens from 

 Tunkas, Shkolak, Tekanto and Labna. 



43. Nyctidromus albicoUis (Gmel.). Parauque. 



Common after dark all along the roads near Tunkas and Shkolak ; 

 also seen at Ticul. One female specimen has the wing bars entirely 

 buff. 



44. Chaetura gaumeri Lawr. ? Gaumer's Swift. 



A swift was quite common at Tunkas and Ticul, which was 

 supposed to be this species but no sjiecimens were procured. 



45. Chlorostilbon caniveti (Less.). Canivet's Hummingbird. 



A male shot near the aguada at Shkolak, March 2nd. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



46. Trochilus colubris Linn. Ruby-throateil Huminin^^binl. 



Common at Shkolak, March 5th, at Labna, March 15th and at 

 Progreso on the sand hills, March 19th. 



47. Lampornis prevosti (Less.). Prevost's Hummingbird. 



A fine male shot on the road from Ticul to Uxmal at the eastern 

 base of the hills, March 13th. Also seen at Labna. 



48. Amazilia cinnamonea (Less.). Cinnamon Hummingbird. 

 Rather common, seen at Tekanto, Sitilpech and Ticul. 



49. Amazilia yucatanensis (Cabot). Cabot's Hummingbird. 



A few males shot at Labna, March 14th. 



50. Tyrannus melancholicus Vieill. Mexican Kingbird. 



This is probably the commonest of all the flycatchers found 

 in northern Yucatan. It was seen throughout the interior especi- 

 ally about the haciendas. In the scrubby growth on the sandhills at 

 Progreso we found a Tyrannus which at first sight seemed different 

 but is probably identical with this species. It seemed to differ consid- 

 erably in its habits from the bird of the interior, being much more 

 quiet. Only one specimen Avas collected in the interior and it is 

 hardly right to take this as typical o£ all the inland birds, but com- 

 paring the three Progreso specimens with this, I find them much 

 lighter yellow beneath, with a wider and more prominent grayish- 

 olive band across the breast. The back is nearly uniform gray 

 while it is very strongly tinged with olive in the inland bird. The 

 crest of the coast bird contains much less red than the inland 

 specimen and the under tail coverts are spotted with brown. 



51. Pitangus derbianus (Kaup). Derby Flycatcher. 



One specimen shot at Tunkas, March 3rd. No others seen. 



52. Megarhynchus pitangua (Linn.). 



Specimens procured in the forest near Shkolak and also near 

 Tekanto. 



53. Myiozetetes texensis (Giraud). Giraud'.s Flycatcher. 



Very common throughout the interior, especially about the hacien- 

 das and at the aguadas at Shkolak. These birds have a shrill 

 cry and keep up a continuous noise. 



54. Oncostoma cinereigulare Scl. 



Apparently rare ; only one specimen was seen which was shot near 

 Tekanto, February 26th. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



55. Myiarchus yucatanensis Lawr. Yucatan Crested Flycatcher. 



Quite common about the haciendas. Two specimens were shot 

 near Tekanto. 



56. Contopus albicoUis Lawr. "W^hite-throated AVood Pewee. 



Specimens were shot near Tekanto and also near Shkolak. 



57. Empidonax minimus Baird. Lea.st Flycatcher. 



Seen at Ticul, Tunkas and Tekanto. Rather common. 



58. Pyrocephalus rubineus mexicanus (Scl.). Vermiliun Flycatcher. 



This bird was common on the mud flats bordering the mangrove 

 swamps at Progreso and seems to be restricted to the coast region as 

 none were seen inland. The specimens collected are of a more rosy 

 red than those from Orizaba, Mexico. 



59. Cissolopha yuca ta (DuBois). Yucatan Blue Jay, 



The Jay is common throughout the interior but seems to be more 

 abundant in the dense forest surrounding the aguadas at Shkolak, 

 where large flocks were frequently seen. 



60. Xanthoura luxuosa cyanocapilla (Cab.). Yellow-bellied Green Jay. 

 Seen at Tekanto, Izamal and Ticul, always close to the towns. 



61. Callothrus robustus (Cab.). Red-eyed Cowbird. 



Abundant in the cow yards of the haciendas, continually flying 

 about the cattle, in company with Dives. 



62. Agelaius phoeniceus (Wagl.). Red-winged Blackbird. 



Several pairs seen on the edge of the Mangrove swamps at 

 Progreso, March 20. 



63. Icterus auratus Bp. 



One male shot and several others seen near Tekanto, always in 

 company with the following. 



64. Icterus gularis AVagl. 



This bird was abundant throughout the interior and, with the 

 exception of the one above mentioned, all the orioles shot belonged 

 to this species. It is strange that this species which we found so 

 common is not mentioned in Mr. Boucard's list of the birds collected 

 in Yucatan by Dr. Gaumer, and that the sj^ecies described by him 

 as abundant were not seen at all by us. 



Perhaps the breeding districts of the various species are different 

 and one species may predominate in Northern Yucatan at one time 

 and be succeeded by another. We saw no females of this species 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



though from their difference in coloration they ought to have been 

 easily recognized if they were present. 



65. Icterus cucullatus igneus lldgw. ? Fiery Oriole. 



A smaller oriole observed at Progreso was probably this species 

 though as no specimens were procured I can not be certain. Both 

 males and females were seen here but the sj^ecies was not observed 

 elsewhere. 



66. Dives dives (Bonap.). 



Abundant tliroughout the interior but always found about the 

 towns or haciendas. Not seen at Progreso. 



67. Quiscalus macrourus Sw. Great tailerl Graekle. 



Common in all the towns and about the haciendas but never 

 found far away from them. 



68. Embernagra rufivirgata verticalis Rdgw. Striped-crowned Sparrow. 

 Tolerably common about Tekanto, but very hard to shoot as it 



keeps continually concealed in the thickest bushes. Its note resembles 

 that of the Field Sparrow {Spizella pusilla) but is louder. It was 

 also met with on the hills near Ticvil. 



69. Cardinalis cardinalis yucatanicus Rdgw. Yucatan Cardinal. 

 Everywhere common in the dry scrubby growth about Tekanto, 



and Ticul also on the sand hills at Progreso, but not found where 

 the vegetation is denser, as at the aguadas. At Ticul it occurred 

 abundantly on both slopes of the mountains. 



70. Habia ludoviciana (Linn.). Rose-breasted Grosbeak. 



Single birds seen at Tekanto and Tunkas. 



71. Guiraca caerulea (Linn.). Blue Grosbeak. 



A few seen about haciendas at Tekanto and Tunkas. 



72. Passerina parellina Bp. Blue Bunting. 



One bird supposed to belong to this species was seen near Sitil- 

 pech but was not secured. 



73. Passerina ciris (Linn.). Painted Bunting. 



A number of cage birds seen which were said to have been taken 

 in the vicinity of Merida ; none were observed, however, by any 

 of our party. They probably occur later in the season. 



74. Saltator grandis Lafr. 



One specimen was shot at Tunkas and others were seen at Sitil- 

 pech and Ticul. 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



75. Euphonia affinis (Li'.^s.). 



Two were seen between Tunkas and Shkolak, one of ■which was 

 shot. 



76. Progne chalybea <iiiiel. (iray-breasted Martin. 



A flock of these birds were seen flying over the aguada at 

 Shkolak, March 5th, and one specimen was secured. 



77. Petrochelidon fulva (Vieill.) ? Cuban Cliff Swallow. 



Large flocks ofcliff'swallows were seen about the cave on the hills 

 near Calcehtok, but none were shot, so the identification is in doubt. 



78. Tachycinetaalbilinea Lawr. White-rumped Swallow. 



Very common at Progreso especially about the lagoons and man- 

 grove swamps. 



79. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (And.). Rough-winged Swallow. 

 Common about the hills at Calcehtok. 



80. Cyclorhis flaviventris Lafr. 



Not common ; one was shot at Tekanto, March 9th, and another 

 at Calcehtok, March 11th. 



81. Vireo noveboracensis (Gin.). AVhite-eyed Vireo. 



One shot at Tekanto, February 28th. Very common on the 

 mountains near Ticul, March 17th, in company with Dendrolca 

 virens, Geothlypis trlchas and Compsothlypis americana. 



82. Compsothlypis americana (Linn.). Parula Warbler. 



Common throughout, especially about Tekanto and at Ticul, 

 March 17th. 



83. Dendroica bryanti Rdgw. Bryant's Warbler. 



Very common among the mangroves at Progreso, March 19th and 

 20th. Song very much like that of D. aestiva. The female speci- 

 mens were in very worn plumage. 



84. Dendroica coronata (Linn.). Myrtle Warbler. 



Common among the Mangroves, March 20th, in company with the 

 preceding. 



85. Dendroica dominica albilora Baird. Sycamore Warbler. 



Several seen at Tunkas and quite common at Ticul on the Palmetto 

 trees. 



86. Dendroica virens ((im.). Black-throated Green Warbler. 



One shot near Shkolak, March 5th ; very common on the moun- 

 tains near Ticul, March 17th. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



87. Dendroica palmarum (Gm.). Palm Warbler. 



One shot among the mangroves at Progreso, March 19th, 



88. Seiurus noveboracensis (Giu.). Water Thrush. 

 Common among the mangroves at Progreso. 



89. Geothlypis trichas (Linn.). Maryland Yellow-throat. 



Tolerably common at Merida and Tekanto and abundant on the 

 mountains at Ticul, March 17th. 



90. Setophaga ruticilla (Linn.). Red-start. 

 Several males seen near Tekanto, March 7th. 



91. Mimus gracilis Cab. Yucatan Mockingbird. 



Common throughout though most abundant in dry scrubby locali- 

 ties. Observed at Progreso and all over the mountains near Ticul. 

 The four specimens collected vary somewhat in the amount of white 

 on the tail and in the color of the back. 



92. Campylorhynclius guttatus (Gould). Yucatan Cactus Wren. 



Common in the scrubby growth which covers the sand hills at 

 Progreso. A nest was found nearly completed March 19th. 



These birds keep well covered in the bushes and are very hard to 

 shoot. 



93. Troglodytes brachyurus Lawr. 



Tolerably common about Tekanto and other places where the 

 vegetation is low and scrubby. 



94. Polioptilacaerulea (Linn.). Blue-Gray Gnatcatcher. 



Common throughout the interior but most abundant in the drier 

 and more open districts. 



95. Polioptila albiventris Lawr. Lawrence's Gnatcatcher. 



One male shot at Progreso, March 19th. Not seen elsewhere. 



96. Merulagrayi Bonap. Gray's Thrush. 



One shot near Labna, March 15th, and several others seen at Ticul. 



Mexico. 



At the town of Orizaba a few specimens were collected but we had 

 not time to procure anything like a full series of the avifauna of the 

 region. The town lies in a narrow winding valley at an altitude of 

 about 4,000 feet and is surrounded on all sides by hills and moun- 

 tains ; the vegetation is very luxuriant and the Rio Blanco, a moun- 

 tain stream, runs thi'ough the valley. The following species were 

 observed during our stay in the town : 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



1. Columbigallina passerina pallesoens (Bainl). Mexican Ground Dove. 

 Common. 



2. Cathartes aura (Linn.). Turkey Vulture. 



Common, almost entirely replacing the Black Vulture which 

 abounds in the lower country, especially at Vera Cruz. 



3. Catharista atrata(Bart.). Black Vulture. 

 Only a few seen. 



4. Falco sparverius Linn. Sparrow Hawk. 

 Common. 



5. Cerylecabanisi (Tschudi). Texan Kingfisher. 



Several seen along the stream. 



6. Empidonax bairdii Scl. BairdV Flycatcher. 



Two shot, March 31st. 



7. Pyrocephalus rubineus mexicanus (Scl.). Vermilion Flycatcher. 

 Common. 



8. Callothrus robustus (Cab.). Red-eyed Cowbird. 



Common about the haciendas. 



9. Quiscalus macrourus Swains. Great-tailed Grackle. 



Very common, 



10. Aimophila rufescens Swains 



Several seen in low thickets bordering swamps, one was shot. 



11. Melospiza lincolni (Aud.). Lincoln's Sparrow. 



Very common, in company with the following. 



12. Ammodramus sandwichensis alaudinus (Bon.). Western Savanna Sparrow. 

 Common. 



13. Sporopbila morelleti (Bonap.). Morellet's Seed-eater. 



Common in flocks. 



14. Piranga hepatica Swains. ? Hepatic Tanager. 



One bird seen supposed to belong to this species. 



15. Stelgidopteryx serripennis (Aud.). Rough-winged Swallow. 

 Common. 



16. Dendroica coronata (Linn.). Myrtle AVarbler. 



I think this is about the limit of this bird's distribution inland, 

 as higher ap the mountains and farther west we found it replaced 

 by D. auditboni (Towns.). One specimen was shot March 31st, 

 several others seen at the same time. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



17. Cinclus mexicanus Sw. Ameiiean Dipper. 



Seen along the Rio BLaiico. No specimens secured. 



18, Troglodytes aedon aztecus Baird. Western House Wren. 



Rather common. 



At the town of Chalchicomula or San Andres a number of speci- 

 mens were collected and a good idea of the avifauna of the region 

 was obtained. 



Chalchicomula is situated on a level plain covered with loose sand 

 or volcanic ash and is surrounded by numerous small cones of 

 volcanic origin while the great peak of Orizaba lies in full view a 

 few miles to the east. The plain is exceedingly dry and the vegeta- 

 tion is restricted to a few scattered bushes and scrubby trees, while 

 on the peak of Orizaba are the regular mountain forests of pine and 

 spruce. The altitude of the town is about 8,200 while the peak 

 towers up some 10,000 feet above the plain, reaching a height of 

 over 18,000 ft. above the sea level. 



The difference between the birds of this vicinity and of the town 

 of Orizaba, 4,000 ft. beloAV, was at once apparent. Only three spe- 

 cies were seen at both places, the Turkey Vulture, Lincoln's Spar- 

 row and Sparrow Hawk, and only the last of these was at all abund- 

 ant at Chalchicomula. Nearly all the species seen belonged to more 

 northern genera, and the absence of such birds as the Great-tailed 

 Grackle, Black Vulture and Red-eyed Cowbird was especially 

 noticeable. 



In the town itself the only birds observed were the House Finch, 

 Barn Swallow and Blue Grosbeak, while in the sandy country stretch- 

 ing toward the mountain the most characteristic species were Baird's 

 Wren, Black-eared Bush Tit, Curve-billed Thrasher, AVestern Chip- 

 ping Sparrow, and the two species of Towhee. On the edge of the 

 pine forest of the mountain a fine finch, Aimophila superciliosa, was 

 abundant. In the forest were found the Robin, Western Blue bird, 

 Slender-billed Nuthatch, Mexican Creeper, Mexican Chickadee, 

 Audubon's AVarbler, Mexican Snow bird, Sieber's and Sumichrast's 

 Jays. The spruce belt of the mountain was not well defined and 

 did not seem to offer any peculiarities in its avifauna. 



While several of the mountain species, such as Sumichrast's Jay 

 and the Mexican Snow-bird, were found on the plain some distance 

 from the edge of the forest, none of the characteristic birds of the 

 open country were met with in the wooded districts. 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The following is a list of the species seen in the vicinity of 

 Chalchicomula and on thfe Orizaba mountain, together with notes on 

 the species found on the peaks of Popocatepetl, Ixtaccihuatl and 

 Toluca, the latter furnished by ray associate, Mr. Frank C. Baker. 



1. Cathartes aura (Linn,). Turkey Vulture. 



A few seen ; also found about Toluca, Popocatepetl and Ixtac- 

 cihuatl, usually to an altitude of 8,000-10,000 ft., though on the 

 last two mountains Mr. Baker says they were observed all the way 

 up to the summit. 



2. Falco sparverius (Linn.). Sparrow Hawk. 



Seen about Chalchicomula and up to the summit of Orizaba, also 

 at the summit of Popocatepetl and up to 10,000 ft. on Ixtac- 

 cihuatl. 



3. Dryobates Strickland! (Mall.). Strickland's Woodpecker. 



One shot near the base of Orizaba at 8,700 ft., April 4th. 



4. Colaptes oafer (Gmel.). Red-shafted Flicker. 



A flock of about a dozen seen at the base of Orizaba, April 4th. 

 Also at 11000-12000 ft. on Ixtaccihuatl and Popocatepetl. 



5. Trochilus platycercus Sw, Broad-tailed Hummingbird. 



Several were observed in the vicinity of Chalchicomula ; one 

 female specimen was secured, 



6. Milvulus forficatus (Gm.). Scissor -tailed Flycatcher. 



One of these birds was seen near Chalchicomula but was not 

 secured. 



7. Aphelocoma sumichrasti (Ridgw.). Sumichrast's Jay. 



Very common in the lower part of the pine forest of Orizaba up 

 to 900-1000 ft., also found on Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl up to 

 about 11,000 ft. 



8. Aphelocoma sieberii (AVagl.). Sieber's Jay. 



One specimen shot on Orizaba Mt, at 10,000 ft. 



9. Corvus corax sinuatus (AVagl,). Mexican Raven. 



Several observed near Chalchicomula and on the mountain to the 

 extreme summit, where two were observed flying over the snow fields. 

 They also occurred up to the tops of the other mountains. 



10. Icterus spurius (Linn.). Orchard Oriole. 



A male and female observed near Chalchicomula were very small. 

 The female which was shot measures (skin) 5'50 in, in length, wing 

 2-70 in., tail 262 in. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



11. Loxia curvirostra stricklandi (Rdgw.). Mexican Crossbill. 



One male shot at the lower edge of the pine forest, at about 9,000 

 ft., April 4th. 



12. Carpodacus mexicanus (MUll.). Mexican House Finch. 



Very common about the houses in the town and along the road- 

 sides nearly to the base of the mountain. 



13. AimopMla superciliosa Sw. 



This bird was abundant just below the pines at the ba.se of the 

 mountains and was very easy to shoot as it remained perfectly still, 

 perched on the top of a bush intent only on its song. Sumichrast's 

 statement (see Biologia Cent. Am., Aves I, ji. 896) that this species 

 replaces A. rufescens in the higher altitudes is undoubtedly correct ; 

 the latter species was found at the town of Orizaba 4,000 ft. below. 



14. Spizella socialis arizonae (Coues). Western Chipping Sparrow. 



Very common throughout the open sandy country nearly to the 

 edge of the pines. 



15. Junco cinereus (Sw.). Mexican Snowbird. 



Very common through the pine forest to 11,000 ft. It was also 

 found some distance below the pines on the plain. Seen on Popoca- 

 tepetl at 11,000 ft. and on Toluca at 8,000 ft. 



16. Melospiza lincolnii (Aud.). Lincoln's Sparrow. 



One shot near Chalchicomula, April 5th. 



17. Pipilo fuscus Swains. Brown Towhee. 



Common about Chalchicomula nearly to the base of Orizaba. 



18. Pipilo maculatus Sw. Mexican Towhee. 



Common, associating with the last. Three males were collected 

 ■which differ somewhat from one another but are all referred to this 

 species by Mr. Ridgway who kindly examined them. All have a 

 more or less prominent white spot on the throat. In No. 25,399, 

 which is the brightest colored individual, the white streaks above are 

 restricted entirely to the sides of the back, and are faintly tinged 

 with yellow, as is also the case with the spots on the wing coverts, 

 some of the latter being also narrowly edged with black. This speci- 

 men has a distinct white line from the bill to the eye. No. 25,397 

 has the white streaks on the back strongly suffused with rufous 

 and some of the black feathers of the breast edged with the same. 



The amount of white on the tail feathers seems to vary consider- 

 ably as can be seen from the accompanying cut, which represents an 




216 



PKOCi:E'.-)lNLiS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



externar tiiil featlier from each of the specimens. 'So. 25,397 in 

 addition to the spot of white on the inner web of the third tail 

 feather has a small spot on the outer web also, while No. 25,399 has 

 no spot at all on the outer web and only a small one at the extremity 

 of the inner web. 



Z6397 



Z533^ 



19. Guiraca caerulea eurhyncha Coues. Western Blue Grosbeak. 

 Several flocks observed in the town. 



20. Tachycineta albilinea Lawr. ? White-ruinped Swallow. 



A species of swallow was very common in the deep crevices or 

 ravines near the town. It seemed to belong to this species though 

 as no specimens were obtained the ideutiflcation must remain in 

 doubt. 



21. Lanius ludovicianus excubitorides (Sw.). "White-rumped Shrike, 

 Rather common about clumps of bushes on the sandy country 



between the town and the mountain. 



22. Helminthopliila celata (.Say). Orange-crowned Warbler. 



One shot on the lower edge of the pine forest, April 4th. 



23. Dendroica auduboni (Towns.). Audubon's Warbler. 



Common in the pme forest of Orizaba at an elevation of 10,000- 

 12,000 ft.; also on Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl at about the same 

 altitude. 



24. Harporhyncbus curvirostris (Sw.). Curve-billed Thrasher. 



Common throughout the open sandy country ; especially about 

 the Indian huts and along the roadside. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



25. Thryothorus bewickii bairdi Salv. A- (iodin. Baird's Wren. 

 Common all over the plain, but not found in the town or on the 



mountain. 



26. Troglodytes brunneicoUis Scl. Tawny-throated Wren. 



In the pine forest of Orizaba at 10,000-13,000 ft.; also found on 

 Popocatepetl at 10,000 ft. 



27. Certhia familiaris mexicana (<41og.). Mexican Creeper. 



In the pine forest of Orizaba from the lower border to an altitude 

 of 11,000 ft. It also occurred on all the other mountains. 



28. Sitta carolinensis aculeata (Cass.). Slender-billed Xuthatch. 



From the lower edge of the forest to 10,000 ft. above. Seen also 

 on Ixtaccihuatl at 10,000 ft. elevation. 



29. Parus meridionalis Scl. Mexican Chickadee. 



Common in the pine and spruce forests from about 11,000 ft. to 

 the limit of tree growth. 



30. Psaltriparus melanotis (Harlt.). Black-eared Bush-Tit. 



Common on the sandy plain between Chalchicomula and the Peak 

 of Orizaba. 



31. Regulus calendula (Linn.). Ruby-crowned Kinglet. 



Rather common on the lower edge of the pine forest. Seen also 

 on Ixtaccihuatl at 9,000 ft. elevation. 



32. Merula migratoria (Linn.). Robin. 



This .species occurred in the pines of Orizaba at 9,000 ft., and on 

 all the other mountains at an altitude of 9,000-11,000 ft. 



33. Sialia mexicana Sw. Western Bluebird. 



Common on Orizaba from the lower edge of the forest to about 

 11,000 ft. Also seen on Popocatepetl and Toluca at about the same 

 altitude. 



In addition to the collections above described Mr. Baker procured 

 a few other specimens at several localities in the western jiart of 

 Mexico. 



At Lake Patzcuaro on May 1st he collected : — ' 



Aythya collaris (Donov.). Ring necked Duck. 

 Plegades guarauna (Linn.). White-faced (Tlossy Ibis. 

 Botaurus exilis (<;mel.). Least Bittern. 

 Fulica americana ((imel.). American Coot. 

 Tyrannus vociferus Sw. Cassin's Kingbird. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890, 



Sayornis nigricans (Sw.). Black Phoebe. 



Agelaius gubernator (Wagl.). Bicolored Blackbird. 



Carpodacus mexicanus frontalis (Say). House Finch, 



Ammodramus sandwichensis alaudinus (Bp.). AVestern Savanna Sparrow. 



About fifteen miles south of Patzcuaro he collected a male and 

 female of that interesting bird, Chamaeospiza torquata (DuBus). 

 The resemblance of this bird to the tanager, Buarremon brunneinn- 

 cha (Lafr.), has frequently been remarked, and it was actually de- 

 scribed as a Buarremon by Mr. Lawrence (An. Lye. N. Y. viii, 126). 

 The structure of the feet and bill, however, bring it very close to 

 Pipilo and its nearest relative seems to be P. chlorurus. Salvin and 

 Godman in the Biologia Cent. Americ. seem inclined to transfer 

 Chamaeospiza to the Tanagridae while they place Pipilo chlorurus in 

 the genus Embernagra. 



As regards the habits of Chamceospiza Mr. Baker says they resem- 

 bled those of Pipilo. 



At La Playa, near the base of the volcano of Jorullo, May ord 

 the following species were collected : 



Centurus elegans (Sw.). Elegant Woodpecker. 



Cassiculus melanicterus (Bp.). Crested Cassic. 



Chondestes grammacus strigatus (Sw.). Western Lark Sparrow. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCEH OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



NEW NORTH AMERICAN FUNGI. 



BV J. B. ELLIS AND BENJAMIN M. EVERHART. 

 Typhula subfasciculata. 



On bark of dead elm, London, Canada, Dec, 1889. J. Dearness, 

 1245. Subfasciculata, 2-3 together or single, cylindrical, curved, 

 1-2 mm. high, white-farinose, contracted above into a pointed, rather 

 darker colored apex. Basidia 15-25 p.. long with a rounded obtuse 

 head 6-8 //. diam. and a cylindrical base 5-6 /ji. diam. Spores not 

 satisfactorily made out, apparently small, 3x2 !j.. 



Stereum atrorubrum. 



On old logs, British Columbia, May, 1889. Macoun, No. 86. 

 Fan-shaped or reniform, 1-3 cm. broad and long, coriaceous, thin, 

 narrowed behind into a sessile base, yellow at first (about the same 

 color as S. eomplicatum) and tomentose pubescent with a few narrow 

 faint zones, but when mature of a dull dark red (about the color of 

 the pileus of Pol. lucidus) with the surface glabrous and densely radi- 

 ate-rugose, margin lobed and crisped and in some specimens, prolif- 

 erous, young hymenium yellow, becoming when old nearly brick 

 color when moist, paler when dry. In the mature state the 3-5 con- 

 centric zones are more distinct and slightly elevated. The specimens 

 roll up in drying and become hard and brittle. 



Hymenochaete rugispora. 



On charred wood of Abies Douglasii, British Columbia, May, 

 1889. Macoun, No. 94. Subpeltate, umber color throughout, mar- 

 gin divided into numerous small (J cm. broad) pilei which are partly 

 reflexed and tomentose, thick (2-3 mm.), firm, uneven (colliculose), 

 often two or more confluent, forming a patch 5 cm. or more across. 

 Hymenium of vertically-fibrous structure, bristles subcylindrical, 

 100-150 X 7-8 fj.. slightly thickened, roughish and obtuse above. 

 Spores oblong with an oblique apiculussubhyaline at first, becoming 

 rusty-brown, wrinkled, 6-8 x 3 /j.. 



Asterina rubioola. 



On living leaves of Rubtis oecidentalis, London, Canada, Sept., 

 1889. J. Dearness 712. Spots rusty yellow-brown, indefinite, paler 

 below, confluent over large areas of the leaf. Perithecia epiphyllous, 

 solitary or 2-4 connate, depressed-hemispherical, pierced above, 

 black, 75-80 /j.. diam. Asci oblong, sessile 35-45 x 12-15 ,a. with 




230 * PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



abundant obscure paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, ovate-elliptical 

 yellowish-brown, 12-15 x 6-8 !>■. rounded at the ends, 1-septate and 

 constricted. 



Asterina bignoniae. 



On living leaves of Blgnonia capreolata, St. Martinsville, La., 

 Feb., 1889. Langlois, 2225. Hypophyllous,perithecia gregarious or 

 scattered, depressed-globose, 115-125 //.. diam. roughish, black; 

 ostiolum papilliforai. Mycelium very scarce or wanting. Asci ob- 

 ovate, 20 X 15 //. finally elongated -pyriform 30 x 15 p.. Sporidia 

 crowded, oblong, 1-septate, 12x4 //. hyaline, obtuse, slightly con- 

 stricted (becoming brown) ? On account of the subglobose peri- 

 thecia and the absence of any radiate-fibrous structure this might be 

 placed in Dimerosporium. 



Chaetomium pusillum. N. A. F. 2350. 



On basswood bottom of a barrel standing in a cellar at Newfield* 

 N. J., July, 1889. Found also at Manhattan, Kansas, on an old 

 churn in a cellar, March, 1889. (Kellernian 1437.) Perithecia 

 gregarious, black membranaceous, about 150 /-«. diam. and 200 ,a. 

 high, the lower part clothed Avith fine loosely-entangled, pale slate- 

 colored, branching hairs; upper part of the perithecia clothed more 

 sparingly with longer, darker, mostly simple, spreading hairs which 

 are partially transparent and continuous or very faintly septate, 

 about 3 //. thick at base, tapering nearly to a point. Asci narrow- 

 cylindrical, 30 X 32 :>.. (p. sp.), without paraphyses. Sporidia uniseri- 

 ate, elliptical, brown, 3*-4i x 22-3 ,a. The asci soon disappear and 

 the spores are expelled in a cylindrical mass 2-1 mm. long, carry- 

 ing along with it the ruptured upper half of the perithecium clothed 

 with its spreading hairs. 



C. sphcerospermum, C. & E. has this same habit, and otherwise 

 much resembles this, but has the terminal hairs more or less branched 

 and coarser (5-6 //. thick below) and the sporidia globose, 6-7 p-. 

 with brown subglobose 3-32 r-. conidia. We have not seen the asci 

 in C. sphcerospermum but from the form of the spore-clusters they 

 appear to be obovate. 



Myriococcum consimile. 



On the basswood bottom and elm hoops of a barrel standing in 

 the cellar, Newfield, N. J., July, 1889. Perithecia gregarious, glo- 

 bose, 80-100 !i.. diam. carbonaceo-membranaceous, black, collapsing, 

 pierced wdth a small, round opening above, filled with olivaceous, 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



oblong 4-4V X 1 •] //. sporules without any evident basidia. The 

 upper half finely radiate-striate, texture close, fine radiate-cellular. 

 The perithecia are enveloped in a loose, glauco-cinereous mycelium 

 of the same color and character as that in M. EverhartU from which 

 this differs in its smaller sporules and smaller striate perithecia with 

 an apical opening. 



Calosphaeria alnicola. 



On dead alder, Newfield, N. J., March, 1889. Subcuticular, 

 Perithecia scattered, subglobose, ^ mm. diam., roughish,. seated on 

 the surface of the inner bark, at length slightly collapsed above. 

 Ostiola short-cylindrical, slightly raising and barely perforating the 

 epidermis. Asci racemose-fasciculate, clavate-oblong, 20-22 x 82- 

 4 ,".., 8-spored, the upper end of the spore-mass truncate and sur- 

 mounted by the empty transparent, dome-shaped apex of the asci. 

 Spores crowded-biseriate, allantoid, curved, 0-6 x 1 ,'j.. 



When the epidermis is peeled off the perithecia either adhere to it 

 or remain attached to the inner surface of the bark, in which respect 

 this differs from Sphaeria secreta, C. & E. in which the perithecia 

 always adhere to the epidermis. This latter species also has longer 

 distinctly clavate asci with a long, slender base and longer sporidia 

 and is we believe specifically distinct from the species on alder 

 though much resembling it. 



Calosphaeria microsperma E. & E. 



On Carpinus Americana, London, Canada, Apr., 1890. Dearness, 

 1587. Perithecia subcuticular, circinate, 6-18 together, about i 

 mm. diam., their cylindrical necks converging and erumpent in a 

 small compact fascicle of short ostiola projecting but slightly and 

 mostly 4-sulcate. Asci clavate 22-25 x 4 //. gradually attenuated 

 to a slender base, paraphyses much longer than the asci. Sporidia 

 minute, SJ x f /j.. curved into a semicircle. 



Coelosphaeria corticata. 



On bark of dead Madura aurantiaca, Emma, Mo., Nov., 1889. 

 Rev. C. H. Demetrio, 272. Perithecia scattered, globose, about h. 

 mm. diam. closely enveloped except the papilliform ostiolum and 

 the apex by the adherent epidermis, and clothed with a thin coat of 

 brown, branching, sparingly septate hairs about 3 //. thick. Asci 

 (p. sp.) about 35 x 7 !)■. 8-spored. Sporidia crowded biseriate, 2- 

 nucleate, hyaline, moderately curved, obtuse, 10-14 x 3 'j.. The 




222 * PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



perithecia soon collapse down to oi' a little beyond the part embraced 

 by the epidermis and become strongly concave. 

 Diaporthe nivosa, Ell. & Holw. 



On dead alders. Isle Royale, Lake Superior, July, 1889. E. W. 

 D. Holway. Perithecia mostly 8-12, about J mm. diam. subcir- 

 cinate, buried in the unaltered substance of the bark which is raised 

 in a pustulate manner over them, contracted above into short necks 

 with black subhemispherical papilliform ostiola erumpent around 

 the mai-gin of a snow-white disk rather less than 1mm. in diam. hav- 

 ing the same general appearance as V. nivea Fr. Asci (p. sp.) about 

 60 X 12 ,'j.. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong, 4-nucleate, 1-septate, 

 constricted, 12-16 x3-4 //. straight or very slightly curved. There 

 is no black circumscribing line around the stroma. 



Valsa floriformis. 



On dead limbs of Fopulus vionilifera, near Concordia, Mo., Oct. 

 1887. Rev. C. H. Demetrio, No. 13. Stroma conic-hemispherical, 

 about 2 mm. broad and IJ mm. high seated on the inner bark and 

 covered by the epidermis which is either simply pierced or sub- 

 lacin lately ruptured by the thick fascicle of cylindrical (1 mm. or 

 more long) somewhat spreading, rather obtusely pointed ostiola, 

 swollen just below the tip and erumpent through a yellowish disk 

 which is soon obliterated. Perithecia numerous (25-50) packed in a 

 single layer in the lower part of the stroma, 1 x f mm. diam. ovate or 

 irreo-ular from compression, contracted above into slender necks 

 which rise through the cinereous contents of the stroma and terminate 

 above in the cylindrical ostiola. Asci (p. sp.) 35-40 x 5 ,a. 

 Sporidia biseriate, cylindrical, hyaline, slightly curved 6-7 x Ij ,«. 

 eight in an ascus. Differs from V. verrucida, Nits, in its long 

 ostiola and smaller asci and sporidia. Has much the same general 

 appearance as F. scoparia, Schw. but ostiola not sulcate and asci and 

 sporidia larger. 



Valsa glandulosa, Cke. 



According to the description of this species in Grev. VII, p. 52, 

 the ostiola are not sulcate. The specimens distributed in N. A. F. 

 2343 on bark of Ailanthus from Kentucky have the ostiola dis- 

 tinctly 4-5 sulcate, so also the specimens sent from Ohio by ]\Ir. 

 Morgan and from Staten Island, N. Y., by Mrs. E. G. Brittou. An 

 examination of the specimen in Rav. F. Am. 661 shows that they also 

 have the ostiola sulcate. This species must then be placed in the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



subgenus Eutypella. The minute (32-4>] x 1 //..) sporidia dis- 

 tinguish it from V. ventriosa C. & E. In Grevillea 18, p. 86. 

 Cooke has published the Staten Island specimens as a new species 

 " Valsa clavulata Cke.," but at most this is only a robust form of 

 V. glandulosa Cke. which, as distributed in Rav. F. Am., certainly 

 has the ostiola sulcate as stated above. 



Valsa (Eutypella) canodisca, Ell. A Holway. 



On dead branches of Salix, Decorah, Iowa, May, 1886. E. W. D. 

 Holway. Stroma depressed-hemispheric, l2-2 mm. diam. flattened 

 nbove and covered by a circular blackish-gray definitely limited 

 disk 1-1 i mm. diam. and pierced in the center by the fascicle of 

 deeply 4-sulcate ostiola. Perithecia 6-15 in a stroma, seated on the 

 surface of the subjacent wood, ovoid or subangular from mutual 

 pressure, 1-i mm. diam. with thick black walls and contracted above 

 into short converging necks with quadrisulcate ostiola collected in a 

 slightly erumpent fascicle in the center of the disk. The upper part 

 of the stroma around and between the necks of the perithecia is filled 

 with whitish, grumous matter. Asci about 100 //. long including 

 the slender base (p. sp. 50x10-12 p..). Paraphyses filiform, 

 abundant. Sporidia eight in an ascus, allantoid, yellowish, moder- 

 ately curved 12-18x32-4//. The stromata are often confluent. 

 The wood beneath is marked by a distinct black circumscribing line. 

 The circular, flat, grayish-black disk is a distinguishing character. 



Pseudovalsa stylospora,E. & E. 



On bark of dead Acer spieatmn, London, Canada, March, 1889. 

 J. Dearness, 1506 (B.). Stroma cortical, convex 2-3 mm. diam. cov- 

 ered by the epidermis. Perithecia circinate 4-8 in a stroma, globose, 

 f mm. diam. collapsing when dry, contracted above into short necks, 

 terminated by small, globose ostiola, subseriately arranged and 

 erumpent through a small crack in the bark. Asci (p. sp.) 80-85 

 X 15 /J.. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, hyaline and granular at 

 first, becoming brown and 2-septate and slightly constricted at the 

 septa, 25-30 x 10-14 //. Pycnidia central bearing cylindrical 3- 

 septate, hyaline stylospores 40-55 x 10-12 /j.. on short basidia. 

 Thyridaria fraxini E. & E. 



On bark of dead Fraxinus, London, Canada, Jan. and March, 

 1890. Dearness, 1371 and 1496. Perithecia thickly scattered, 

 buried in and almost filling the bark which is uniformly blackened 

 on the inner surface, globose 2-I mm. diam. coriaceous with thick 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



walls, black and shining inside, contracted above into a short neck 

 terminated by an erumpent subhemispheric-tuberculiform ostiolum 

 more or less distinctly radiate-sulcate. Asci with a slender base, 

 90-100 X 15-20 //. polysporous. Paraphyses obscure. Sporidia 

 biseriate, vermiform, brown, 3-6 septate, 20-26 x 4 //. The cen- 

 tral septum is distinct, the others fainter. Spermogonia ( Cytispor- 

 ina Fraxini) central. Sporules filiform, curved, 40 //. long. Near 

 T merustans, Sacc. 



Cryptovalsa sparsa, E. & E. 



On dead oak limbs, St. Martinsville, La., Feb., 1890. Langlois,. 

 2207. Perithecia mostly only 1-4 in a stroma J mm. diam. buried 

 in the inner bark with only a faint circumscribing line which does 

 not penetrate the wood, with thick coriaceous walls, black and shin- 

 ing inside, attenuated above into short necks terminating in more or 

 less distinctly quadrisulcate ostiola erumpent in a small pustuliform 

 disk but scarcely projecting above it. Asci (p. sp.) 70-75 x 8-10 

 p.. polysporous, with a slender base and accompanied by paraphyses.. 

 Sporidia allantoid, yellowish, moderately curved, with a nucleus in 

 each end, 6-7 x I2 //. 

 Diatrype macounii. 



On maple bark (Ace7- rubrum) ? Agassiz, British Columbia, May, 

 188!). Macoun, No. 127. Stroma discoid, gray, 3-4, mm. across and 

 about one mm. thick, suborbicular or subelliptical, seated on the 

 surface of the inner bark and loosely embraced by the upturned 

 ruptured epidermis, circumscribed by a distinct black line which 

 penetrates the bark and stains the surface of the subjacent 

 wood but does not penetrate it. Perithecia numerous, 30-50, in a 

 single layer, ovate-globose, i-J mm, diam. contracted above into a 

 • short neck terminating in a small, indistinctly radiate-cleft black 

 ostiolum which is in a slight depression of the stroma. Asci (p. sp. 

 20-30 X 3 ,a.) or including the thread-like base, 50-60 //. long. 

 Sporidia biseriate above, allantoid, yellowish, slightly curved 4-6 x 

 f-1 //. Substance of the stroma dirty white inside. 

 Diatrype hochelagae. 



On decorticated elm wood, London, Canada, March, 1890. J. 

 Dearness. Stroma orbicular or elongated, 2-3 mm. long and 1-2 

 mm. wide, often more or less confluent, pulvinate-verrucose with the 

 margin abrupt or slanting off at the ends, with a faint circumscrib- 

 ing black line which does not penetrate deeply into the wood, dull 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



black outside, dirty white within. Perithecia crowded in the stroma, 

 subglobose, about 5 mm. diam. with thick, black coriaceous walls. 

 Ostiola conic-hemispherical, deeply 4-5-sulcate cleft. Asci (p. sp.) 

 40-45 X 7-8 !i: with stout paraphyses and allantoid yellowish, mod- 

 erately curved 8-12 x 2\ p.. sporidia. Resembles outwardly Dia- 

 trypella quercina, var. lignicola, C. & E. Specific name from Hoch- 

 elaga, an Indian name for the St. Lawrence River. 



Diatrypella vitis. 



On dead vines of Vitis bipinnata, Bayou Chene, La., Oct., 1888. 

 Rev. A. B. Langlois, 1508. Stromata, tuberculiform-hemispherical, 

 about 1 mm. diam. erumpent-superficial, black inside. Perithecia 

 1-4 in a stroma, globose 2 mm. diam. black and shining within, con- 

 tracted above into a short neck. Ostiola scarcely prominent, quadri- 

 sulcate. Asci polysporus, 75-80 x 10-12 ,a. clavate-cylindrical, 

 rather abruptly contracted below into a stipitate base and surrounded 

 by obscure paraphyses. Sporidia allantoid, yellowish-hyaline, 6-7 

 X 1^ ;j.. not strongly curved. The surface of the wood beneath the 

 stromata as well as the inner surface of the bark is marked with a 

 black circumscribing line. 



Diatrypella demetrionis. 



On dead limbs of Salix chloropliylla in a wet mountain valley, 

 Colorado, July, 1888. Rev. C. H. Deraetrio, No. 205. Stroma 

 pulvinate, depressed-hemispheric, orbicular, slate-black, 1^-2 mm. 

 diam. penetrating to the wood which is marked with a black cir- 

 cumscribing line, closely embraced by the superficial layer of the 

 bark which forms a narrow adnate margin; inner substance whitish. 

 Ostiola only slightly prominent, distinctly but not deeply radiate- 

 cleft. Perithecia of medium size, globose or angular from mutual 

 pressure. Asci slender-clavate 75-80 p.. long (p. sp. 35 x 6 //.), 

 Sporidia crowded, pale yellowish in the mass, nearly hyaline w^hen 

 separated, minute, allantoid, slightly curved, about 4-5 x 1-1} p. 



This comes near D. exigua, Winter, which is also on Avillow limbs 

 but that species is said to have the stroma very small (" minutissimis") 

 and the sporidia 8 x H p- In the Colorado specimens we found no 

 sporidia over 5 p. long and mostly only about 4 p. The general 

 appearance is almost exactly that of Diatrype disciformis. 

 Ceratostomella mall. 



On inner surface of loose hanging bark of partly dead apple 

 trees, Newfield, N. J., Dec, 1889. Perithecia scattered, membran- 

 16 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



aceous, globose, 400 !>.. diain. barely covered by the bark which is 

 slightly raised above them and pierced by the short-cylindrical, ob- 

 tuse 150 X 75 //. ostiolum with a rather large round opening at its 

 apex. Asci clavate, subtruncate above and narrowed gradually to 

 the acute base, about 40 x 5 p.. 8-spored. Paraphyses none. Spo- 

 ridia biseriate oblong-cylindrical, scarcely curved, faintly 2-nu- 

 cleate, 6-8 x I2 //. Differs from C. dispersa, Karst. in its rather 

 smaller straight bald ostiolum. 



Ceratostoma juniperinum. 



On a wounded dead place on a limb of Juniperus Virginiana. 

 Flatbush, Long Island. Rev. J, L. Zabriskie. Perithecia grega- 

 rious, awl-shaped, black, 700-800 /j.. high, slightly enlarged at the 

 tip, swollen and about 150 ,«. thick below. Asci included in the 

 ovate-swollen base, oblong-elliptical, about 12 x 6 //. with a slender 

 base 12-15 /j.. long. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, ovate-globose, 

 brown, 4x32 ,"- or a little less. The sporidia exude and form a 

 little brown head at the apex of the perithecia thus giving the ap- 

 I^earance of a Callcium. 



Ceratostoma parasiticum. 



On old Fomes applaiiatus, West Chester, Pa., June 28th, 1889. 

 Gregarious, membranaceous, subhemispherical, i mm. diam. red- 

 dish-brown becoming slaty-black, prolonged above into a stout beak 

 2-2J mm. long, 150 //. thick below, narrowing to about 75 p.. at the 

 paler, subfimbriate tip. Asci obloug-ovate, (p. sp.) about 20-25 x 

 7-8 p.. Sporidia crowded, acutely elliptical, hyaline becoming 

 dark, 7-8 x 4j-5 p. The asci and sporidia often ooze out at the tip 

 of the long beak or ostiolum and form a dark colored globule which 

 inclines to flatten out and thus gives the appearance of an enlarged 

 truncate tip. 



Specimens of Perieonia sphcerophila Pk. found by Mr. Meschutt 

 in Northern New Jersey and by Miss Minns in New Hampshire are 

 ascigerous and much resemble this. 



Ceratostoma conicum. 



On rotten pine logs, Newfield, N. J., July, 1889. Perithecia 

 immersed or subsuperficial by the falling away of the surrounding 

 wood, gregarious, subovate, about 2 mm. diam., rough, prolonged 

 above into a conical rough ostiolum projecting above the surface of 

 the wood and finally elongated to about 1 mm. in length. Asci 75 

 -80 X 8 //. (p. sp.) with stout lance pointed paraphyses much longer 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rillLADELPPIIA. 227 



than the asci. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, yellowish-hyaline, 

 about 5-nucleate, straight, 18-20 x 3 //. 



Rosellinia albolanata. 



On old rails, Emma, Mo., Nov. 1889. Rev. C. H. Demetrio, 269. 

 Perithecia subseriate, erumpent, the lower part remaining sunk in 

 the wood, about 1 mm. diam. clothed except the black papilliform 

 ostiolum with a thin, white, farinose coating which finally disappears, 

 bicorticate, outer wall carbonaceous, inner submembranaceous. 

 Asci cylindrical, about 100 x 10 ,«. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, 

 12-16 X 7-10 //. Found also bursting through the bark on dead 

 Salix limbs, at Mill Creek, near Sheridan, Montana, Nov., 1889, by 

 Mv. and Mrs. H. M. Fitch (com. F. W. Anderson). 



Bosellinia glandiformis. 



On decaying wood of an old live oak stump, St. Martinsville, La., 

 Feb., 1889. Langlois, No. 1768. Perithecia scattered, conic-hemi- 

 spheric, black and roughish (granular), 1-1 \ mm. diam. about i part 

 sunk in the wood, mostly with a slight reinforcement around the 

 lower half of the projecting part like the cup of an acorn, but this is 

 sometimes wanting. Ostiolum minute and inconspicuous. Asci 

 cylindrical 100-114 x 8-10 /j.. with numerous paraphyses. Sporidia 

 1-seriate, acutely elliptical, opaque (subhyaline at first), 14-15x7-8 

 //. Closely allied to M. subiculata, Schw. but perithecia more scat- 

 tered and rather larger and the yellow subiculum wanting. 



Hosellinia parasitica. 



On dead limbs of Symphoricarpus occidentalis, Helena, jNIontana. 

 Rev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 7. Perithecia gregarious, seated on the wood 

 in transverse cracks of the bark or often on or among the collapsed 

 perithecia of a sterile Val.sa on the same limbs, ovate-globose, cov- 

 ered with short black spreading bristles at first but these soon dis- 

 a^Dpear leaving the perithecia rough, l-i mm. diam., smoother above 

 with a broad papilliform, obtuse ostiolum. Asci cylindrical, 60-70 

 X 6 ,'i. (p. sp.) with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, ob- 

 long-elliptical, subobtuse, dark brown, 7-10 x 4-5 /j.. This is cer- 

 tainly very near B. detonsa (Cke.) which Sacc. in Sylloge considers 

 a var. of i?. ligniaria (Grev.) but it differs in its perithecia more 

 flattened above and in its constantly smaller sjDores. 

 Rosellinia kellermanni. 



On rotten wood of Negundo aceroides, Manhattan, Kansas, 

 March, 1889. Gregarious, superficial, perithecia subglobose about 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



i mm. diani., clothed with short (15-22 />..) straight, spreading 

 bristles, except the papillifbrm ostiolum, finally nearly bare. (Asci 

 long and slender, 5-spored sec. Kellerman and Swingle.) Sporidia 

 elliptical or subglobose, 3-4 x 4-6 //. Distinguished by its small 

 sporidia. 



Rosellinia langloisii. 



On very rotten stem of Vitis, St. Martinsville, La., March, 1889. 

 Langlois 1779 (p. p.). Perithecia scattered, erumpent, the base sunk 

 in the wood, conic-hemispheric, '1 mm. diam. smooth and shiny black. 

 Ostiolum papilliform. Asci about 100 //. long and 5-6 //. thick 

 with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia acutely elliptical, dark- 

 brown, 2-nucleate, 1-seriate, 6-7 x 4 //. Resembles R. aibolanata 

 but perithecia and sjioridia smaller and the white fai'inose coat want- 

 ing. 



Anthostoma ontariensis. 



On dead limbs of Salix, London, Canada, Feb., 1890. J. Dearness 

 1390. Stroma convex \-h mm. diam. more or less subseriately 

 confluent often for several cm., formed of the unaltered substance of 

 the bark and surrounded by a black circumscribing line which 

 penetrates the wood. Perithecia crowded in the stroma, subglobose 

 2-4 mm. diam. with thick coriaceous walls, contracted above into a 

 narrow neck terminated by the subglobose, deeply quadrisulcate, 

 "erumpent, ostiola. Asci slender 8-spored, 90-110 //, long (p. sp 

 75-80 X 8-10 ,u.) with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia subbiseri- 

 ate, cylindrical moderately curved, brown, 20-26 x 4-4^ p.. Has 

 much the same general appearance as some compact forms of Vaha 

 stellulata, Fr. 



Anthostomella ludoviciana, Ell. & Lang. 



On dead stems of Smilax, St. Martinsville, La., Jan., 1889. 

 Perithecia gregarious, covered by the blackened cuticle which is 

 pierced by the papilliform, minutely perforated ostiolum, 140- 

 170 fJ: diam. Asci 50-55 x 3-32 ,'J- cylindrical, paraphysate. 

 Sporidia oblong-elliptical, brown, mostly 2-nucleate, 4-6 (mostly 

 4-5) X 2-2* p- uniseriate. The perithecia are often in subseriate 

 patches, lying so near as to touch each other but hardly coufluent 

 and are buried in the substance of the bark or even in the denuded 

 wood which is then continuously and uniformly blackened on the 

 surface but not within. Distinguished from other allied species by 

 its small sporidia. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 229 



Hypoxylon albocinctum. 



On bark of dead Cratcegus, Preston, Hamilton Co., Ohio, Jan., 

 1890. A. P. Morgan, No. 884. Stroma thin (1mm.), flat, carbon- 

 aceous, mostly orbicular, i-1 cm. diam., light cinei*eous at first soon 

 purplish-black except the margin which remains light colored for 

 some time, surface uneven from the projecting vertices of the peri- 

 theeia which are ovate-globose, small (^—1 mm.), monostichous, mod- 

 erately crowded, sunk nearly to the base of the stroma, contracted 

 above into a short neck terminating in the minute papilliform osti- 

 olum. Asci cylindrical, 80-100 x 5-6 ,'j.. (p. sp. about 60 //. long), 

 Avith abundant paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate narrowly elliptical, 

 brown, 1-2 nucleate, subacute, 7-8 x oii-l //. The bark beneath 

 the stroma is whitened and surrounded by a black circumscribing 

 line. The general appearance is like that of orbicular forms of If. 

 serpens, from which it differs in its purplish stroma and smaller 

 perithecia and sporidia. 



Poronia leporina. 



On rabbit dung, Emma, Mo., Sept., 1889. Rev. C. H. Deme- 

 trio, 250. Stipitate, flesh colored, small, stipe 1-2 mm. long, A mm. 

 thick expanding above into a discoid stroma 1-2 mm. diam. and 

 mamillose from the slightly prominent perithecia which are ovate- 

 globose, about ^ mm. diam. 6-20 in a stroma. Ostiola large, black, 

 convex. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 80-100 (p. sp. 75-80) x 10-12 fj.. 

 with obscure paraphyses. Sporidia at first greenish-hyaline 1-2 

 nucleate, becoming opaque, subinequilaterally elliptical mostly uni- 

 seriate, 12-15 x 6-7 p.. 



Physalospora zeicola, E. & E. 



On dead stalks of Zea vimjs exposed to the weather through the 

 winter, Newfield, N. J., Apr., 1890. Perithecia gregarious minute 

 (1-i mm.) covered by the cuticle which is slightly raised and pierced 

 by the obtusely conical, black and shining ostiolum. Asci clavate- 

 cylindrical, 75-80 X 12-15 //. nearly sessile, with abundant para- 

 physes. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, elliptical or almond shaped, 

 hyaline, granular. 18-20 x 8-10. 



Physalospora conica. 



On old canes of Ariuidinaria, St. Martinsville, La., Oct., 1888. 

 Rev. A. B. Langlois, No. 1567. Perithecia gregarious, erumpent 

 and superficial, conical, about J mm. broad and high. Asci oblong 

 about 75 X 20 /j-. with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



elliptical, liyaline, granular, often bulging on one side, 20-22 x 10- 

 12 !>.. The asci and sporidia are the same as in Botryosphaeria 

 fuliginosa (in N. A. F. 475-481) but its scattered conical perithecia 

 are quite different from any of the forms included under that name. 

 Physalospora pandani. 



On leaf of Fandanus, in a greenhouse, Knoxville, Tenn., Jan., 

 1890. Prof F. L. Scribner. Perithecia amphigenous, on large dull 

 white spots with a purplish-red border, covered by the epidermis, sub- 

 globose, 150-200 !J.. diam. membranaceous, of coarse cellular struct- 

 ure, the apex and papilliform ostiolum erumpent. Asci cylindrical, 

 about 100 X 10 !)-. with faint rudimentary paraphyses. Sporidia 

 uniseriate or biseriate, hyaline, granular, oblong-elliptical, 18-20x7 

 —8 /J. 

 Laestadia orientalis. 



On dead leaves of "Japan Chestnut" Castanea japonica (cult.), 

 LaFayette, La., March, 1889. Langlois, 1664. Perithecia amphi- 

 genous, depressed-hemispherical, 180-200//. diam. scattered, erump- 

 ent. Asci clavate-cylindrical, p. sp. 45-50 x 12 ,«. or including the 

 slender base 70-75 //. long. Paraphyses none. Sporidia crowded- 

 biseriate, inequilaterally-elliptical, hyaline, granular and nucleolate, 

 12-14x5-6 p.. There is also on the same leaves a Septoria with 

 gregarious, subglobose 80-100 //. perithecia and hyaline, nucleate 

 subundulate, 12-25x1-12 ;j.. sporules — agreeing with the descrip- 

 tion of *S'. gilletiana Sacc. in all but its smaller continuous sporules. 

 Laestadia apocyni, E. <fe E. 



On dead stems of Apocymim, London, Canada, June, 1890. 

 Dearness, 1734. Perithecia gregarious, depressed-spherical, 150- 

 200 ,'J.. diam. perforated above, covered by the cuticle through which 

 thev are visible by translucence. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 40-45 

 X 10-12 ,": Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong, 2-uucleate, obtuse, 

 mostly a little curved, 10-15 x5-6 />-. 



Sphaerella conigena. 



On scales of dead cones of Abies douglasii, Belt Mts., Montana, 

 Sept., 1889. F. W. Anderson, 612. Perithecia gregarious on the back 

 of the exposed tip of the scale, minute (74 //.) buried except the 

 black smooth conic-papilliform apex. Asci narrow clavate-cylindri- 

 cal, gradually attenuated below, 75-80 x 5 ,a. paraphyses none. 

 Sporidia uniseriate, ovate, 1-septate and constricted at the septum 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



hyaline, 6-7 x 3-3} //. Differs from the usual type of Sphaerella 

 in its narrow elongated asci. 



Sphaerella spinicola. 



On spines of Rosa rubiginosa, West Chester, Pa., July, 1839. 

 Perithecia scattered or 3-4 together, minute 110-120 //.collapsing, 

 visible through the translucent epidermis as minute black specks, 

 fringed around the base with scanty mycelium. Ostiolum papilli- 

 form. Asci oblong, sessile, about 45 x 12 /j.. (p. sp.). Sporidia bi- 

 seriate, oblong-elliptical, continuous, granular, rounded at the ends, 

 12-15 X 5-6 /... 



Sphaerella ciliata. 



On dead stems of Steironema ciliatum, London, Canada, May, 

 1890. Dearness, 1650. Thickly gregarious. Perithecia subglobose, 

 150 //. diam. covered by the cuticle but not sunk in the matrix, os- 

 tiolum papilliform. Asci clavate-cylindrical 40 x 7 //. Sporidia, 

 biseriate, clavate-oblong, hyaline, 1-septate and constricted 10-12 x 

 3 /'-. 

 Sphaerella angelicae. 



On dead stems oi Angelica atropurpurea, London, Canada, June, 

 1890. Dearness, 1715. Perithecia scattered, growing under the 

 bark and attached to it so that when the bark is peeled, off they 

 come with it, globose, i mm. diam., collapsing below, ostiola papilli- 

 form, barely piercing the cuticle and only slightly raising it. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, with abundant paraphyses, 65-70 x 7-9 //. 

 Sporidia biseriate, oblong-elliptical, 2-nucleate, 12-15 x 3^ //., be- 

 coming ovate -oblong and 1-septate. 



Judging from the specimens in F. Eur. and F. G., this is differ- 

 ent from S. rubella, Niessl. 



Sphaerella maclurae. 



On leaves of Machira axirantiaca, Emma, Saline Co., Mo., Aug., 

 1889. Rev. C. H. Demetrio, 251. Spots red-brown with a definite, 

 darker border 3-10 cm. diam. or by confluence more, very brittle, 

 the central part paler and soon falling out. Perithecia innate with 

 their vertices erumpent, small (75 //.). Asci oblong-cylindrical 

 50 X 8-10 //. without paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-pyri- 

 form, constricted, slightly curved, 12-14 x 5 //., ends subacute. 

 Sphaerella polifolia. 



On living or partly dead leaves of Andromeda polifolia, London, 

 Canada, Aug., 1889. J. Dearness. Perithecia epiphyllous on gray- 




232 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Lsh-lilack, indefinite spots 2 mm. or more in diam., erumpent, rough, 

 minute, broadly pierced above. Asci oblong, 35-40 x 6-8 //. without 

 jiaraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, clavate oblong, 1-septate, 10-12 x 

 2. 1-3 //. 

 Lidymella canadensis. 



On dead limbs of Salix, London, Canada, Jan., 1890. J. Dear- 

 ness, No. 1378. Perithecia irregularly but thickly scattered, buried 

 in the bark, which is slightly raised above them and pierced by the 

 small, black, papilliform ostiola, white inside, globose, about I mm. 

 diam. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-90 x 12-15 p.. with abundant 

 paraphyses. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, cylindrical, obtuse, hyaline, 

 4-nucleate, constricted in the middle and slightly so near each end, 

 25-34 X 6-7 p.. 

 Didymella cornuta, E. & E. 



On dead stems of Asclepias cornuti, London, Canada, Apr., 1890. 

 Dearness, 1635. Perithecia scattered, minute 175-200 p.. diam. 

 attached to the blackened surface of the stem just beneath the thin 

 epidermis which is barely pierced by the prominent ostiolum. Asci 

 cylindrical, nearly sessile, 65-70 x 7 //. Paraphyses present. 

 Sporidia, biseriate, fusiform, yellowish, very slightly curved, 1- 

 septate and constricted, becoming 3-septate, 20-25 x 3-32 /^-. ends 

 subobtuse. 

 Didymella andropogonis, E. & E. 



On dead leaves of Andropogon vvuricatus, St. Martinsville, La., 

 Apr., 1889. Langlois, 2209. Perithecia hypophyllous, subgre- 

 garious, about i mm. diam. buried in the substance of the leaf with 

 the apex and short conic-cylindrical ostiolum projecting. Asci 

 cylindrical, narrow, 80-90 x 5 /j.. with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia 

 overlapping uniseriate, fusoid-oblong, 3-nucleate, becoming 1-2 

 septate and constricted, acute at fii'st but finally obtuse, hyaline or 

 yellowish-hyaline, 12-15x3 ,a. some of them very slightly curved, 

 Near D. mhgemina B. & C. 

 Didymella mali. 



On the inner surface of loose hanging bark of living apple trees, 

 Newfield, N. J., Dec. 8, 1889. Perithecia scattered about \ mm. 

 diam. buried in the substance of the bark except the emergent 

 rather acutely conic ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, about 70 x 

 7 //. with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid, slightly 

 curved, about 4-nucleate not constricted 20-22 x 3 p.. ends acute. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 233 



Venturia parasitica, 



Parasitic on old Hy poxy Ion {perforatum) f On bark of Magnolia 

 near St. Martinsville, La., Jan., 1889. Langlois, 1781. Perithecia 

 densely gregarious, globose, 90-100 //. diam. collapsing above, 

 sparingly clothed with spreading straight rigid continuous spines or 

 bristles about 30 x 5 /v.. Asci clavate-cylindrical about 25 x 5 //. 

 without any paraphyses. Sporidia oblique or (biseriate) oblong, 3- 

 4-nucleate, hyaline, 6-8 x 2 ,a. 



Venturia sabalicola. 



On dead leaves of Sahal palmetto, Bayou Chene, La., Oct., 1888. 

 Langlois, 1546. Scattered or subgregarious. Perithecia globose, 

 125-135 ,a. diam. pierced above, beset with stout straight black 

 bristles 50-80 x 6-8 p.. Asci oblong-clavate 50-60 x 7-8 ji. with- 

 out paraphyses. Sporidia fusoid-oblong, hyaline, 4-nucleate (be- 

 coming 1-septate) ? 10-13 x 22-3 //. crowded biseriate. 



Diaporthe columbiensis. 



On dead limbs of some undetermined tree, British Columbia, 

 April, 1889. Macoun, 32. Perithecia in subcircinate clusters of 3 

 -6 (occasionally only one) buried in the inner bark, their bases pen- 

 etrating to the subjacent wood, large (f-1 mm.) collapsing below, 

 abruptly contracted above into a short neck terminating in a sub- 

 tuberc'ular, quadrisulcate-cleft ostiolum erumpent (but not strongly 

 prominent) through the thin, black, superficial convex crust that 

 covers the stroma. The substance of the stroma consists entirely 

 (except the black circumscribing layer) of the bleached substance 

 of the bark. Stroma elliptical, 2-5 mm. diam. with a distinct black 

 circumscribing line which does not penetrate deeply into the wood. 

 Asci oblong-lanceolate, about 100 x 12 ,a. Sporidia biseriate, hya- 

 line, oblong 20-22 x 7-8 //., 1-septate and constricted, each cell with 

 a large nucleus. 



Diaporthe (Euporthej leucosarca. 



On dead limbs of Carpinus Americana, London, Canada, May, 

 1890. Dearness, 1696. Perithecia thickly scattered, buried in the 

 unchanged substance of the inner bark and covered by the gray 

 epidermis which is raised in a pustuliform manner and pierced by 

 the minute papilliform ostiola. Asci oblong-cylindrical, 80-110 

 X 20-22 ,a. (without paraphyses) ? Sporidia biseriate, broad-fusoid, 

 hyaline, 1-septate and constricted, each cell with a large nucleus, 22 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



-30 X 8-10 !>.. Perithecia about \ mru. diam., white inside, stroma 

 not limited by any dark circumscribing line. 



Diaporthe crinigera. 



On dead oak limbs, London, Canada, ]\Iarch, 1890. J. Dearness, 

 1347 B. Stroma cortical. Perithecia buried in the substance of 

 the inner bark, subcircinate, 6-20 together, ovate- globose \-\ mm. 

 diam. contracted above into short, slender, convergent necks with the 

 ostiola smooth and rounded or distinctly quadrisulcate and erurap- 

 ent in a small compact fascicle. In well developed specimens the 

 ostiola are cylindrical l-2mni. long but quite as often they project 

 only slightly above the epidermis. There is not a separate circum- 

 scribing line around each cluster of perithecia but one continuous 

 thin black layer extends along just under the surface of the inner 

 bark over the entire space occupied by the fungus. In the early 

 stage of growth and where there are only a few perithecia in a cluster, 

 the surface of the inner bark is smooth and even, but where the 

 perithecia are more numerous and well developed they raise the bark 

 into little flat pustules about 2 mm. diam. Asci 45 x 7-8 p.. (p. sp.) 

 with paraphyses, Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 4-nucleate,. 

 slightly constricted in the middle, ends subobtuse, 10-13 x 3-4 //. 

 This was at first referred to Diaporthe woolworthii, Pk. but having 

 compared it with a specimen of that species from Mr. Peck we find 

 it to differ in its larger and more numerous perithecia with long 

 cylindrical ostiola and its broader sporidia ; nor is there any seriate 

 arrangement in the clusters of perithecia or any circumscribing line 

 or layer. Mr. Commons sends the same from Delaware (No. 1266) 

 differing only in the clusters of perithecia being more or less 

 longitudinally confluent. 



Diaporthe comptoniae. 



On Comptonia asplenifolia, Newfield.N. J., June, 1889. Perithe- 

 cia subcircinate, buried in the inner bark, small (i mm.), 10-20 in 

 a group, globose, contracted above into a short neck ending in a 

 short cylindrical, obtuse ostiolum with a round, entire opening, gen- 

 erally not projecting above the surface of the bark and scarcely visible. 

 The ascigerous nucleus is whitish at first, becoming nearly black. 

 The bark is raised into little pustules above the perithecia and these 

 pustules soon become irregularly ruptured above. Asci oblong 35- 

 40 X 7 //. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, subinequilateral, 1-septate 

 and slightly constricted at the septum, 10-12 x 3-3z /j-. yellowish- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



hyaline. Accompanied by sperraogonia with minute allantoic! spox'es 

 in a multilocular grayish-black stroma in pustules similar to those 

 containing asci and sporidia. The ascigerous perithecia finally fall 

 out (or are eaten out by insects) ? 



Liaporthe americana, Speg. 



On dead shoots of 3Iagnolla glauca, Newfield, N. J., Jan., 1889. 

 Perithecia buried in the inner bark and partly sunk in the wood 

 about 2 mm. diam. whitish or horn-color inside, the thin cylindrical 

 ostiola either singly or oftener converging and bursting through the 

 ruptured epidermis but scarcely projecting above it, their tubercu- 

 lar-cylindrical tips rounded and obtuse and more or less distinctly 

 quadrisulcate-cleft. The stroma is formed of the unchanged sub- 

 stance of the wood which it penetrates deeply and is limited by a 

 black circumscribing line. The perithecia are either irregularly 

 scattered or in groups of 4-8. Asci 40-50 x 6-7 //. without any 

 distinct paraphyses. Sporidia oblong-fusoid, hyaline, 2-3-nucleate, 

 finally 1-septateand slightly constricted, 10-12 x 3 //. This agrees 

 fairly well with the description of Spegazzini's species. 



Diaporthe megalospora. 



On dead wood of Savibueus Canadensis, Manchester, Mass., July, 

 1889. Wm. C. Sturgis. Perithecia globose, i-f mm. diam. scat- 

 tered, buried in the wood which is blackened on the surface but re- 

 mains white within, abruptly contracted above and prolonged into 

 a long (2-3 mm.) rough, subflexuous ostiolum. Asci (p. sp.) 70-90 x 

 10-12 ,«. Sporidia biseriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved, 1-sep- 

 tate and constricted at the septum, each cell with 1 or.2 large nuclei, 

 acute at the ends, 25-35 x 42-55 p.. Narrower than in D. leuco- 

 sarca. 



Didymosphaeria andropogonis, Ell. & Lang. 



On dead culm of Androj^ogon muricatus, St. Martinsville, La., 

 July, 1889. Langlois, 1814. Stroma consisting of the nearly un- 

 changed substance of the culm which is a little whiter than the sur- 

 rounding parts, 3-4 cm. long, 1 cm. broad, surrounded by a green- 

 ish-black line which penetrates deeply, the surface also being of a 

 uniform slaty-black. Perithecia scattered, subglobose J-f mm. 

 diam., entirely buried except the convex-discoid, erumpent ostiolum. 

 Asci cylindrical about 110 x 8-10 ,'j.. with stout but evanescent par- ■ 

 aphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-cylindrical, rounded at the 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ends, slightly curved, 1-septate, hyaline at first, becoming brown, 18 

 -22 X 4.]-5i 11. 

 Melanconis salioina. 



On dead limbs of Salix, London, Canada, Jan., 1890. Stroma 

 flat, thin, orbicular, about 2 mm. in diam. composed of the slightly 

 altered substance of the bark whicli is not perceptibly elevated above 

 it, surrounded by a black circumscribing line which does not 

 penetrate below the surface of the wood. Perithecia 3-6 (exception- 

 ally only one) in a stroma, large (f mm.), globose, membranaceous 

 with a light colored nucleus, contracted above into short necks 

 which terminate in a rather broad, round, concave ostiolum piercing 

 the epidermis but scarcely rising above it. Asci broad lanceolate, 

 90-110x12-16 //.. (p. sp.) with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia 

 crowded-biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 1-septate and slightly constricted, 

 a little bent or curved, 40-60 x 8-10 ii. yellowish-hyaline with a 

 short obtuse apiculus at each end. Spermogonia in a central peri- 

 thecium in the middle of the stroma. The base of the perithecia is 

 sunk in the surfiice of the subjacent wood. 



Valsaria salicina. 



On dead limbs of Salix, London, Canada, Jan., 1890. J. Dear- 

 ness, No. 1312. Stroma subovate, 2-22 mm. diam. buried in the 

 bark, the upper part light colored within and projecting so as to 

 forma brownish-black subhemispherical tubercle, 1-2 mm. across and 

 less than 1 mm. high, minutely papillose above from the slightly 

 projecting ostiola. The upper projecting part of the stroma is of a 

 light horn-color inside. Perithecia 10-20 irregularly crowded in 

 the bottom of the stroma, ovate globose, with thick coriaceous walls, 

 contracted above into slender necks 1 mm. or more long, terminating 

 above in the papilliform ostiola. Asci slender 70-80 x 5-6 !>■. (p. 

 sp.). Paraphyses abundant, longer than the asci. Sporidia obliquely 

 1-seriate, oblong, crowded, cylindrical, 2-nucleate, brown, 1-septate, 

 10-12 X 3-} ,'A. Allied to V. anthostomoides, Sacc. 



Leptosphaeria maclurae. 



On leaves of Madura aurantiaca, Emma, Saline Co., Mo., Aug., 

 1889. Rev. C. H. Demetrio. Spots as in Sphaerella Maclurae, E. 

 & E. (which occurs on the same leaves) suboi'bicular reddish-brown, 

 4-10 nmi. diam. with a darker margin and deciduous center. Per- 

 ithecia mostly hypophyllous, innate-erumpent, small (75 ij..), black. 

 Asci oblong-cylindrical, 50-60 x 8-10 !>.. Paraphyses? Sporidia 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



biseriate, fusoid, about 6-nucleate becoming 5-septate, slightly 

 curved, nearly hyaline, 20-22 x 3 p.. 

 Leptosphaeria steironematis. 



On dead stems oi Steironema ciliatum, London, Canada, May, 1890. 

 J. Dearness. Perithecia gregarious around the nodes of the stem, 

 subepidermal, conic-hemispherical,.* mm. diam. raising the epider- 

 mis which is pierced by the obtusely conic ostiolum. 



Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-100 x 15-20 /j-., with abundant fili- 

 form paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, oblong, 3-septate, sometimes 

 slightly constricted at the septa, brown, obtuse at the ends, mostly a 

 little curved, 15-22 x 7-8 //.. 



Leptosphaeria brunellae. 



On dead stems of BruneUa vulgaris, London, Canada, May, 

 1890. Dearness, 1712. Perithecia scattered, minute (i-l mm.) 

 covered by the epidermis which is only slightly raised and barely 

 pierced by the papilliform ostiolum. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 7-5- 

 80 X 10-12 //. subsessile with filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseri- 

 ate, fusoid, slightly curved, pale yellowish-brown, 8-septate, the next 

 to the upper cell swollen, 22-30 x 4 //.. Differs from L. pyrenope- 

 zizoides, Sacc, in its perithecia not collapsing and from L. parieta- 

 riae, Sacc, in its paler spores. 



Accompanied by perithecia containing fasciculate acicular sty- 

 lospores (Rhabdospora), 40-55 x 2-2? /j-. These perithecia are 

 white inside and rather larger. Other smaller perithecia contain 

 spores 4x1* /-».. {Phoma). 

 Leptosphaeria folliculata. 



On leaves of Carex folliculata. On pale white elliptical spots 2- 

 4x 1-1* mm. Perithecia buried in the substance of the leaf with 

 their apices slightly prominent, few on a spot (1-6), small 60-75 //. 

 diam. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 50 x 10-12 ,«. Spor. biseriate, oblong 

 or clavate-oblong 2-septate and slightly constricted at the septa, 12 

 -15 X 3 //. yellowish-brown, ends obtuse. Differs from the other 

 species on Carex in its distinct spots and smaller sporidia. 



Metasphaeria rubida. 



On a decaying log of P^afantts occidentalis, Flatbush, Long Island, 

 N. Y., Dec. 31, 1889. Rev. J. L. Zabriskie, 384. Perithecia gre- 

 garious, globose, minute (} mm.), sunk in the surface of the w'ood 

 with their apices and obtusely-conic ostiola projecting. On carefully 

 shaving off the ostiola the upper part of the perithecium is seen to 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



be filled with carnose bright flesh-red material which is also often 

 visible through the broadly perforated ostiola. The lower part of 

 the perithecia is white inside. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-80 /^. 

 long (p. sp. about 40 x 12 //.). Paraphyses abundant, longer than 

 the asci. Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong-fusoid, slightly curved 

 3-septate, the next to the upper cell swollen, hyaline, 20-22 x 82- 

 4 J //. The upper part of the perithecia seems to be covered (as in 

 Clypeosphaeria) with a more or less distinct cap of black carbona- 

 ceous matter which is irregularly ruptured by the emergent ostiolum. 



Pleospora diaportheoides, 



On old stems of parsley {Petroselinum), Newfield, N. J., May, 

 1890. Perithecia scattered, depressed-hemispherical, about 200 p.. 

 diam. erunipent-superficial, with a short, stout, cylindrical ostiolum. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, 75-85 x 12-15 ,a. with stout, jointed para- 

 physes. Sporidia subbiseriate, oblong-elliptical, yellow-brown, 3- 

 septate with one or more of the cells divided by a longitudinal sep- 

 tum, not constricted at the septa, about 15 //. long (14-18 x 7-8 ,a.). 



Pleospora hyalospora. 



On leaves oi Lathyrus sativus (1348) and Pisxmi sativum (1370). 

 Starkville, Miss., ]\Iay and June, 1890. S. M. Tracy. Perithecia 

 scattered, depressed-hemispherical, 75-90 //., of coarse cellular struct- 

 ure, at first sunk in the parenchyma of the leaf, finally more or less 

 erumpent-superficial, with a papilliform ostiolum. Asci oblong, 75 

 -85 X 35-40 !'.., 8-spored. Sporidia oblong or slightly ovate-oblong, 

 3-6-septate (mostly 5-septate), with one or more longitudinal septa 

 more or less distinct, nearly hyaline, ends obtusely pointed or rounded 

 slightly constricted at the septa, especially at the middle one, 25-40 

 (mostly 25-30) x 12-15 //. Differs from P. Pisi (Sow.) in its obo- 

 vate asci, nearly hyaline sporidia and more delicate smaller peri- 

 thecia. 



Pyrenophora zabriskieana. 



On bark of JJhnus Americana, New Baltimore, N. Y., Apr., 1872. 

 Rev. J. L. Zabriskie, No. 108. Perithecia loosely gregarious, 

 erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, 175-200 //. diam. densely 

 clothed with straight, erect, sparingly-septate, yellowish-brown hairs 

 100-125 p.. long and about 5 />-. thick at the base tapering gradu- 

 ally to the subacute tip, of membranaceous texture and dark yellow- 

 ish-brown color (under the microscope). Asci clavate-oblong, 100- 

 112 X 22-25 !J: rounded above, with a short, abrupt, stipitate base. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2.S9 



Paraphyses slender and numerous but inconspicuous. Sporidia 

 crowded-biseriate, ovate-elliptical, densely niuriform, rounded at the 

 ends, yellowish-brown 22-30 x 12-14 //. constricted across the 

 middle. The sporidia are so closely and densely muriform as to 

 appear granular, the granular contents being arranged in transverse 

 lines across the sporidia so that they appear 12 or more septate. 

 Differs from P. pnlyphragmia, Sacc. to which it comes nearest in its 

 smaller perithecia and shorter sporidia. 



Fenestella amorpha. 



On dead hickory limbs, Lyndon ville, N. Y., Apr., 1888. Dr. C. 

 E. Fairman. Stroma tuberculiform, seated on the wood, variable 

 in size from 1mm. inclosing a single perithecium to 3 or 4 mm. with 

 4-6 perithecia, or sometimes confluent in a seriate manner .for 1 cm. 

 or more, black outside, whitish within, mostly depressed-hemispher- 

 ical with the stout, cylindrical ostiola rising from the apex or burst- 

 ing out through cracks in the bark but scarcely projecting. Asci 

 cylindrical 150 x 15 //. (p. sp. 100-110 x 15) with abundant 

 paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, elliptical, 5-6-septate and muri- 

 form, becoming almost opaque, so that the septa are hardly visible. 

 20-22 x 12-14 ,'j.. When the bark falls away the stroma becomes 

 superficial. 



Ophiobolus trichisporcis. 



On dead culms of grass, London, Canada, June, 1890. Dear- 

 ness, 1734. Erumpent-superficial. Perithecia ovate-conic, t mm. 

 or less in diam. attenuated above into the acute short-beaked 

 ostiolum. Asci, 170-200 x 3 //. Sporidia filiform multinucleate, 

 nearly as long as the asci. Differs from 0. stictisporus E. & E. 

 principally in its acutely beaked j^erithecia. 



Ophiobolus medusae, E. & E. J. M. I., p. 150. var. minor E. & E. 



In leaves of Andropogon murieatus, St. Martinsville, La., Feb., 

 1889. Langlois, No. 1771. Differs from the specimens on Spartina 

 in its erumpent larger ostiolum and smaller asci and sporidia which 

 are 110-120 x 7-8, a. and 90-110 x 2^ //. respectively. The peri- 

 thecia, mode of growth, etc., are the same as in the original speci- 

 men. 



Melauomma commonsii. 



Parasitic on Hypoxylon sassafras, Wilmington, Del., Jan., 1890, 

 Commons, 1258. Perithecia gregarious, ovate-globose, rough, black, 

 minutely tomeutose-pubescent when young, 110-125 /j-. diam. Os- 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



tioliim papilliforni. Asci clavate-evliudrical 50-55 x 7-8 />.. with 

 abundant filiform paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate, fusoid-oblong, 3- 

 septate, slightly constricted at the septa, olive-brown 12-14 x 3-3? /-/.. 



Melanomma tetonensis. 



On bark of Artemisia cana, Valley of the Teton river in north- 

 ern Montana, July, 1889, Anderson, 551. Perithecia scattered, 

 erumpent-superficial, ovate-globose, nearly smooth, 5-I mm. diam. 

 collapsing above. Ostiolum narrow and only slightly prominent. 

 Asci clavate-oblong, 75-80 x 18-20 jj.. with abundant paraphyses. 

 Sporidia crowded, subbiseriate, fusoid-cylindrical, slightly curved, 

 yellow, 5-septate, 22-27 x 6-7 ,«. ends acute while lying in the asci, 

 obtuse when free. This differs from M. occidetitalis (Ell.) in its 

 scattered mode of growth and larger perithecia and sporidia, the 

 latter being constantly 5-septate and not constricted at any of the 

 septa. It might be considered a var. of that species. 



Melanomma parasiticum. 



On old Diatrype stigma, Newfield, N. J., April, 1889. Perithecia 

 scattered or gregarious, superficial, ovate-hemispherical, 110-130 ;jl. 

 diam. roughish, black. Ostiolum papilliform soon perforated. Asci 

 oblong cylindrical 40-50 x 8-10 /j-. sessile, without paraphyses. 

 Sporidia crowded-biseriate, oblong-fusoid, 3-septate, and finally 

 slightly constricted at the septa, 10-12 x 3-4 //. pale olivaceous. 

 Sphaeria nigerrima, Blox. (Cke. Hndbk. No. 2812) which is also 

 parasitic "on various species of Diatrype" has sporidia 122-20 p.. 

 long and at length multiseptate and perithecia " sprinkled with short 

 stiff bristles." Our specimens of 31. vile Fckl. have the perithecia 

 larger and differ otherwise. Melanomma subsparsum Fckl. which 

 we have not seen is said to have yellow sporidia. 



Winteria tuberculifera. 



On bark of wild plum (Prunus) London, Canada, 1890. Dearness, 

 1533. Perithecia gregarious, superficial, 2 mm. diam. depressed-glo- 

 bose, narrowed below, tubercular roughened, collapsed and cup- 

 shaped when dry, black. Asci 35-40 x 5-6 p.. Sporidia crowded- 

 biseriate, fusoid-oblong, hyaline 2-4 nucleate 6-8 x 2-2?//.. (becoming 

 1-3 septate) ? 

 Cucurbitaria kelseyi. 



Perithecia large (4-I mm.) rough, subglobose, regularly rounded 

 above with a papilliform ostiolum, bursting through cracks in the 

 bark in elongated tufts, crowded and subconfluent, connected below 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



by a scanty grayish-black stroma. Asci cylindrical 170-190 x l-")- 

 20 //. contracted below into a short stipe-like base. Paraphyses 

 filiform, abundant. Sporidia uniseriate oblong-elliptical straw- 

 yellow, becoming dark brown, contracted in the middle with three 

 principal septa and several fainter ones (7-9 in all), muriform, 25- 

 30 X 14-1(5 p.. ends at fii'st obtusely pointed, finally rounded. Three 

 main transverse septa are the only distinct and decided ones, the 

 others both transverse and longitudinal being more or less indistinct 

 and interrupted. On PhiJadelphns leivisii ? Helena, iVIontana, 

 March, 1889. Kev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 38. This is with diflnculty 

 distinguished from C berberidis, Gray and might perhaps better be 

 considered a var. of that species from which it seems to difi'er in its 

 broader sporidia. The ascigerous perithecia were accomjianied by 

 others inclining more to ovate, with a .short conic-cylindrical 

 ostiolum and filled with very minute (1-2-2 x V //.) spores. 



Cuourbitaria fraxini. 



On bark of dead Fraxinus, London, Canada, Feb., 1890. J. 

 Dearness, 1461. Perithecia globose, rough, black (white insidej, •} 

 mm. diam. flattened above, with a papilliform ostiolum, seated on the 

 surface of the inner bark in compact clusters of about 8-12 and sur- 

 rounded by the ruptured epidermis. Asci cylindrical, p. sp. about 

 150 X 12-15 //-. with a short, stipe-like base and surrounded by 

 numerous paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate or subbiseriate, ovate- 

 oblong, constricted in the middle, 5-6 septate and nuiriform, yel- 

 lowish-brown, 25-30 X 10-14 //. 



Cucurbitaria setosa, E. & E. 



Parasitic ? on the tubercular, erumpent stroma of some Diatrype, 

 on dead limbs of Wild Plum (Prumis), London, Canada, March, 

 1890. Dearness, 1493. Stroma black, caruose, 2-3 mm. across, its 

 convex surface thickly covered with the minute parasitic ? perithe- 

 cia which are subglobose about i mm. diam., clothed laterally with 

 stout black, s])reading spines, 25-40 x 7 ,«. Ostiolum either smooth 

 and subpapilliform or more or less distinctly radiate-sulcate. Asci 

 oblong clavate 45-55 x 12 ,'j.. (p. sp.), contracted below into a nar- 

 row, stipe-like base. Paraphyses longer than the asci, evanescent. 

 Sporidia biseriate, subrhomboidal-oblong, hyaline and multinucleate 

 at first, becoming yellowish, 3-5-septate and submuriform, 12-15 x 

 ■ir-5 ,'J: Accompanied by Cornularia Persicae, (Schw.) The crowded 

 perithecia bear a general resemblance to those of Plowrightia mor- 



17 




-42 i'R()(Ei:i)ix(;8 of the academy ok [1890. 



bosa, 8ch\v. from which, however, this is quite distinct. The stroma 

 is carnose and black inside and out, and in the bark beneath it are 

 buried the numerous small abortive perithecia of a Diatrype or Valsa. 

 Teichospora mammoides. 



On dead stems of Sarcobatus vermiculatus near Great Falls, 

 Montana, July, 1889. F. W. Anderson, 542. Perithecia erumpent- 

 superficial, gregarious, depressed-hemispherical, brownish-black, f 

 mm. diam. with a prominent nipple-like black ostiolum. Asci 

 clavate-cylindrical, subsessile, 100-110 x 12-15 [j.. with abundant 

 filiform paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, ovate-oblong 5-7 septate 

 and muriform, scarcely constricted, yellow becoming brown, 20-22 

 x9-ll //.. 

 Teichospora mycogena. 



Parasitic on old Diatrype stigma, Newfield, K. J., Apr., 1889. 

 Scattered immersed except the partially erumpent apex which 

 slightly raises the surface of the Diatrype stroma rupturing it in a 

 subradiate manner. Perithecia of medium size with an indistinct 

 ostiolum. Asci subcylindrical about 100 x 12 //. abruptly con- 

 tracted below into a short stipe. Sporidia biseriate, ovate-oblong, 

 with three distinct transverse septa and a longitudinal septum across 

 (me or more of the cells, yellowish becoming dark brown, distinctly 

 constricted at the middle septum and when mature 5-6-septate, 12 

 —15 X 6-8 //.. This might be mistaken for Lophiostovia fioridanum 

 E. & E. but that has the perithecia more superficial and quite differ- 

 ent sporidia. 

 Teichospora umbonata. 



On dead branches of Symphoricarpiis occidentalis, Helena, Mon- 

 tana, March, 1889. Rev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 7. (in part). Perithecia 

 gregarious, discoid, about i mm. diam. seated on the surface of the inner 

 bark exposed by the fiilling away of the epidermis, ostiolum tuber- 

 culiform. Asci cylindrical 75-80 x 7-8 //. with paraphyses. Sporidia 

 uniseriate, ovate, 3-septate, constricted at the middle septum, straw- 

 yellow, 12-15 X 6-8 //.. Most of the sporidia show only the three 

 transverse septa but in some of them one or both the inner cells 

 are divided by a longitudinal septum. It is not improbable that 

 the sporidia may finally become brown and acquire additional 

 septa. 

 Teichospora papillosa. 



On weather beaten dead decorticated limbs of Salix, Helena, 

 Montana, Feb., 1889. Rev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 4. Gregarious, sub- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



superficial, depressed-globose, i mm. diam. strongly papillose- 

 roughened with a few short weak glandular hairs when young, 

 finally collapsing above, ostiolum papilliforni, not conspicuous. 

 Asci oblong, 75-85 x 20-24 ,a. nearly sessile, paraphyses evanescent. 

 Sporidia crowded-biseriate, 8 in an ascus oblong or slightly clavate- 

 oblong, a little curved, obtuse at the ends. Mostly o-septate with 

 one or two of the cells divided by a longitudinal septum, hyaline 

 becoming yellow-brown, 22-30 x 10-11 //. 



Teichospora megastega. 



On bark of old weather-beaten willow limbs and also on the wood. 

 Helena, Montana, Feb., 1889. Kelsey, No. 4 (pr. p.) and on Acer 

 glabrum, Kelsey No. 49. Perithecia gregarious, subsuperficial, the 

 base sunk in the wood or bark with about two-thirds of the upper 

 part projecting, hemispheric-globose, f-1 mm. diam. rough, ostiolum 

 inconspicuous, subpapilliform. Asci cylindrical 175-200 x 15 />.. 

 with a short stipe-like base and abundant paraphyses. Spoiidia 1- 

 seriate, about 7-septate and muriform, mostly constricted in the mid- 

 dle more or less distinctly, ends rounded or obtusely pointed, 25-36 

 X 12-15 //.. Closely allied to T. obducens, but perithecia less 

 crowded, more depressed, larger and rougher and sporidia rather 

 larger. 



Teichospora helenae. 



On decorticated weather-beaten limbs ot Salix, Helena, Mon- 

 tana, Feb., 1889. Rev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 4 (in part) also on wood 

 of Prunus Virginiana, F. W. Anderson. Perithecia gregarious, 

 semi-erurapent, i-f mm. diam. granular-roughened, collapsing above, 

 ostiolum minute. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 112-120 x 10-12 />.. 

 rather abruptly contracted below into a short stipe-like base and 

 surrounded with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, ovate- 

 oblong, brown, constricted in the middle, 5-7-septate and with one 

 or two of the intermediate cells divided by a longitudinal septum 

 15-25 X 8-12 //. Quite often asci are seen in which the sporidia 

 are smaller, black and shriveled as if struck with blight before 

 maturity. Closely allied to T. patellarioides, Sacc. but differs in its 

 larger globose-hemispherical perithecia without any fringe of hyphae 

 at the base and in its 5-7septate sporidia uniseriate in narrower asci. 

 Teichospora kanseusis. 



On outer bark of cottonwood trees, Kansas, Coll. Dr. G. Ege- 

 ling Com. Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt. Perithecia scattered, minute (120- 




244 PROCEEDING'S OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1890. 



175 tJ..), conic-hemispheric, base slightly sunk in the bark, ostiolum 

 papilliform. Asci oblong 75-80 x 12 ji. sometimes shorter and broad- 

 er (45-50 X 15 //.). Sporidia biseriate, ovate oblong, pale brown, 3- 

 septate, finally 6-septate and slightly constricted across the middle, 

 lower end subacute, about 20 x 8-9 ,a. Teichospora pruniformis 

 (Nyl.) which is also found on bark of poplar and willow is much 

 larger (J mm. diam.). 

 Nectria diplocarpa. 



On thallus of some foliaceous lichen (Parmelia)'! on trunk of a 

 tree, Farmington, N. Y., Dec, 1888, Edgar Brown, No. 17. Peri- 

 thecia gregarious or subcespitose (2-3-connate) superficial, ovate, 

 about i mm. diam. clothed with white septate, sparingly branched, 

 substrigose hairs, collapsing more or less distinctly above, deep flesh 

 color, ostiolum papilliform, large and distinct, smooth. Asci clavate, 

 40-50 X 8-12 //. filled with reddish granular matter at first, then con- 

 taining 4 oblong elliptical, hyaline spoi-es, 8-12 x 4-5 //., 1-septate 

 and more or less constricted at the septum, ends rounded and obtuse, 

 lying irregularly in the asci. Paraphyses apparently present but 

 very obscure as are also the asci which are soon dissolved. Together 

 with the sporidia already described are .others much larger, 30-45 x 

 18-25 /J: granular, hyaline, 1-septate and strongly constricted at 

 the septum, oblong-elliptical in shape with the ends obtuse and 

 rounded. It is not easy to see just how these large spores originate 

 but there is good reason to believe them true ascospores as in several 

 instances asci were seen containing, in addition to the smaller 

 sporidia, a single sporidium intermediate in size between the smaller 

 and the larger ones. Only one of the larger intermediate sized 

 spores was seen in the same ascus and as far as we could judge only 

 one of these large sized spores was produced in an ascus, though 

 when the spore had reached the largest size mentioned the asc\is 

 which containe(i it had disappeared. If this is the correct view the 

 large spores are normal and mature and the smaller ones undeveloped 

 and immature. In examining our Exsiccati we find that specimens 

 collected in Missouri by Demetrio on thallus of P(m?ie/i'a and issued 

 by Dr. Winter in his Rabenhorst-Winter Fungi, No. 3252, as 

 Nedria lecanodes Rabh. are the sa,me as this. The description, how- 

 ever, of N. lecanodes does not apply to this, that species having 

 sporidia only 9-11 x 3-4 .a. and in fact the specimen of N. lecanodes 

 in DeThumen's Mycotheca, 1746 and Fungi Gallici, 665 (both 

 collected by Madame Libert) as well as those in Rehm's Ascomy- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 245 



cetes, No. 38 and Plowright's Fungi Britaniiici 212, have the sporidia 

 8-12 X 3-4 //. Tlie New York and Missouri specimens also differ 

 from those just cited in their brighter red color and distinctly hairy 

 peritliecia and come nearer to N. erythrinella, Nyl. which again has 

 the peritliecia only partially emergent and sporidia 18-25 x 6-8 //. 

 much larger than in N. lecan.odes it is true but still far too small. 

 Possibly this variability in the size of the sporidia is only accidental 

 but from its occurrence in specimens from such widely separated locali- 

 ties there is reason to consider it normal and if so, characteristic 

 of a s])ecies not heretofore described. 



Hypocrea pallida. 



Specimens of this species found by Dr. John Macoun in Prince 

 Edwards Island, parasitic on Polypoms chioneus Fr. agree perfectly 

 with the Newfield specimen (J. M. II, p. 65) only there is an orange 

 colored mycelium which stains the Polyporus within, of a fine light 

 yellow, 



Hypocrea melaleuca. 



On decaying oak limbs, Newfield, N. J., Jan., 1889. Subicuhim, 

 membranaceous, thin, Avhite, covered except the margin with a single 

 layer of minute (112-130 ,a.) slate-colored perithecia filled with 

 globose 22-3 //.. sporidia? (or perhaps stylospores) as no asci were 

 seen. This seems to be a distinct species but requires further ob- 

 servation with more perfectly developed specimens. 



Caloneotria dearnessii. 



On decaying branches, London, Canada, Jan., 1890. J. Dearness, 

 No. 1346. Cespitose on the ostiola of some 3Iassaria on ash and 

 elm. Perithecia 3-12 in a cluster, ovate, narrowed above and be- 

 low, light orange-yellow, about J mm. diam. and a little more than 

 that in height, seated on a white, radiate-fibrous, silky mycelium 

 which at first partially envelops and clothes the perithecia but 

 finally disappears. Ostiola broad papilliform not distinctly prom- 

 inent, at length slightly collapsing. Asci 75-80 x 10-12 /■>■. with 

 paraphyses. Sporidia oblong-cylindrical, obtuse, yellowish-hyaline, 

 biseriate, 3-5-septate, more or less constricted at the septa, 25-35 x 

 6-7 ,a. ends obtuse, slightly curved. This diflfers from N. fulvlda E. 

 & E. in several particulars. 



Thyroneotria chrysogramma. 



On bark of XJbnus Americana, Manhattan, Kansas, March, 

 1889. Kellerman and Swingle, No. 1421. Also on elm limbs 




246 PROCEEBINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Potsdam, N. Y., 1857. Perithecia oespitose, ovate, h-i mm. 

 diam. seated on the surface of the inner bark without any evident 

 stroma and bursting through the epidermis in compact groups of 3 

 -6, densely clothed with a greenish-yellow farinaceous coat, only 

 the prominent ostiolum becoming bare and black, Asci clavate-cy- 

 lindrical, 150-175 x 14-18 ,'j.. with abundant paraphyses. Sporidia 

 biseriate, oblong-elliptical, mostly a little curved, 7-10-septate with 

 very faint interru])ted longitudinal septa, hyaline at first, finally 

 quite dark brown, 20-30 x 10-12 >j.. The sporidia are certainly 

 muriform though the longitudinal septa are very faint. AYe at first 

 supposed this to be the mature state of Nedrla aurigera B. & Rav. 

 but a careful examination of the specimens of that species in N. A. 

 F. and Rav. F. Am. failed to reveal any longitudinal septa in the 

 sporidia which as well as the perithecia are also smaller than in this 

 though apparently mature. Near Th. virens, Hark. 



Chilonectria crinigera. 



On bark of dead Fraxinus vlridis, Lincoln, Nebraska, Nov., 1888. 

 H. J. Webber, No. 18. Perithecia cespitose 3-12 on a tubercular 

 stroma in compact clusters 1-2 mm. across, the single perithecia sub- 

 globose and about i mm. in diam. covered at first with a brownish 

 farinaceous coat, becoming nearly black, rounded and obtuse above 

 with a papilliform ostiolum which is slightly collapsed when dry. 

 Asci clavate-cylindrical, 65-75 x 12-15 /-/.. rounded and obtuse above, 

 contracted below into a stipitate base and overtopped by the 

 abundant paraphyses. The asci are at first filled with innumerable 

 minute (3 x J ,a.) allantoid hyaline sporidia but in what we take to 

 be the mature state these minute sporidia appear to be transformed 

 into eight biseriate, globose yellowish-hyaline, 5-7 ,a. diam. sporidia 

 which while lying in the asci are faintly marked with radiating 

 lines and when free are surrounded with about a dozen radiating 

 hyaline filaments 8-10 ,'j-. long and extending out from all sides of 

 the sporidium like rays from a star. 

 Nectria sambuci. 



On Sambucus Canadensis, Lincoln, Nebraska, Aug., 1888. H. 

 J. Webber. Cespitose on a tubercular base (Tubercularia Sam- 

 buci, Cda.). Perithecia 4-12 on a strouia, ovate-globose, pruinose 

 pale red, about i mm. diam. Strongly collapsed above when dry. 

 Ostiolum papilliform, finely fimbriate. Asci oblong clavate 50-60 

 X 6-7 /jt. (p. sp.) without paraphyses. Sporidia biseriate oblong, uni- 

 septate, straight or slightly curved, hyaline 12-20 x 32-42 />.. The 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCKH OF I'lIILADELPHIA. 247 



Tuhercularia has allantoid hyaline coiiidia 6-8 x li-2 //. on basidia 

 35-40 /'.. long, branched above. This is according to the specimens 

 in DeThumen's Mycothcca and in Fungi Gallici the T. samhici 

 Cda. We are not aware that its ascigerons state has ever been ob- 

 served before. 



Nectria athroa. 



On decaying sycamore log, Manhattan, Kansas, Feb., 1889. 

 Kellerman and Swingle, No. 1325. Densely gregarions. Peri- 

 thecia ovate, 150-200 X 110-120 //. dark red, smooth or nearly so, 

 not collapsing. Asci (p. sp.) about 35 //. long cylindrical, evanes- 

 cent. Sporidia uniseriate, oblong-elliptical, hyaline, obtuse at the 

 ends 1-septate and slightly constricted, 5-6 x 2^> //.. This has the 

 general appearance of N. ditissima, Tul. but besides the more 

 regularly shaped perithecia the sporidia are mnch smaller. The asci 

 are with difficulty seen so that this might be taken for a stylosporous 

 fungus only from the fact that here and there series of eight spores 

 lying end to end indicate the presence of asci. 



Nectria mammoidea, Phill. & Plow. 



This species was found at Newfield some years ago on outer bark 

 of living apple trees and again Dec, 1888 on outer bark of living 

 Quince trees. The Newfield specimens agree with authentic speci- 

 mens from Plowright in all respects only the sporidia are a 

 little smaller (15 x 5-6 //.). In Plowright's specimens they are 18- 

 22 X 6-7 /': and subinequalateral. The Newfield specimens were 

 immature, the asci being mostly filled with granular matter. 



Neotria pithoides. 



On dead alders, British Columbia, May, 1889. Macoun, 122. 

 Densely cespitose forming suborbicular tufts, l2-2j mm. diam. 

 Perithecia ovate, dark red, about | mm. diam. muriculate-roughened, 

 colla])siug above so as to appear truncate, but only slightly concave, 

 appearing in profile like small jars. Ostiolum papilliform only 

 slightly prominent. Asci cylindrical, 75-80 x 5 /j.. Paraphyses 

 not seen. Sporidia 1-seriate, oblong-elliptical 2-nucleate, becoming 

 1-septate 6-10 x 3-3=] />., smoky hyaline. The perithecia . are 

 seated on a convex yellow stroma 50-100 together and when young 

 are clothed with a few short white glandular hairs. Nearly allied to 

 N. microspora, C. & E. which has less numerous paler red, smoother, 

 more irregularly collapsed perithecia. The specific name from Grk. 

 pithos a barrel. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Nectria sulphurata. 



On dead wood of Fopuhis tretmdoides, Sand Coulee, Montana. 

 May, 1889. F. W. Anderson, No. 496. Perithecia gregarious, 

 minute {\ nun.) subglobose with a sliglitly contracted base, covered 

 witli a sulphur-yellow granulose-pruinose coat which finally dis- 

 appears and leaves the perithecia black ; collapsed above when dry 

 and more or less distinctly radiate-sulcate. Asci subcylindrical, 65 

 -70 X 6-7 !>: Sporidia subbiseriate, allantoid, hyaline, with a small 

 nucleus near each end, slightly curved, 9-12 x 2 //.. Differs from 

 N. aurea S. & S. in its smaller sporidia. 



Homostegia kelseyi. 



On dead stems oi' Elbes rotundifolia't Helena, Montana, Jan., 

 1889. Rev. F. D. Kelsey, No. 3. Sent also by Mr. F. W. Ander- 

 son, apparently on a different species of i?t6e5 (No. 398). ' Perithecia 

 gregarious or cespitose or united 3-6 together in an imperfect stroma, 

 often transversely seriate through cracks in the bark, ovate 2-1 

 mm. diam. with a conic or cylindric-conic, stout ostiolum which is 

 sometimes imperfectly radiate-sulcate. Asci cylindrical, 150-190 x 

 8-9 lu with paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate, hyaline, oblong- 

 cylindrical 3-septate, straight, obtuse, 15-20 x 7-9 //. 



Dothidea bigeloviae. 



On dead stems of Bigelovia, Helena, Montana, Nov., 1888. Rev. 

 F. D. Kelsey, No. 141 . Stromata depressed-tubercular, suborbicular, 

 about 1 mm. diam smooth and black, gregarious, partly sunk in the 

 bark of the dead stems. Ascigerous cavities peripheric, minute, 

 numerous. Asci oblong 40-50 x 12 //. soon disappearing. Sporidia 

 subbiseriate, 1 — septate, constricted at the septum, 15-20 x 7-10 //. 



Plowrightia staphylina, E. <fc E. 



On bark of Staphylea trifolia, London, Canada, March, 1890. 

 Dearness, 1560. Cespitose, clusters of perithecia about 1 mm. diam. 

 mostly seriately confluent for several centimeters in length, erump- 

 ent through cracks in the bark and only slightly prominent. Peri- 

 thecia black, small, 150-200 fj-. diam. ovate or obovate, narrowed be- 

 low into a substipitate base. Ostiolum conic-papilliform, soon 

 broadly and somewhat irregularly perforated. Asci clavate-cylin- 

 drical, subsessile, paraphysate, 60-65 x 8 /jl. Sporidia mostly bi- 

 seriate, oblong or clavate-oblong, hyaline, 1-septate and slightly 

 constricted, 12-15 x 4-5 ,'i., ends obtuse. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 1 



Plowrightia symphoricarpi. I 

 On dead branches of Symjyhoricarpus occidentalis, Sand Coulee, I 

 Cascade Co., Montana, Dec, 1888. Anderson, No. 210. Stroma . \ 

 convex, penetrating to the wood but not limited by any black circum- 

 scribing line, brownish-black, whitish within, 1 •)-2 mm. diam. Peri- , 

 thecia 10-15 in a stroma, J mm. diam. the upper part mostly prom- , 

 inent and free. Sometimes the stroma is wanting, the perithecia being ' 

 then simply cespitose or subsolitary. Ostiola obtusely conic, nearl)'^ J 

 smooth or indistinctly radiate-sulcate. Asci clavate-cylindrical, \ 

 subsessile, 75-80 x 12 //.. with paraphyses. Sporidia uniseriate or ! 

 subbiseriate above, ovate-elliptical, 1-septate and constricted, hyaline j 

 and granular at first, becoming yellow-brown, 15-18 x 8-10 //.. j 



Curreya shepherdiae. 



On dead limbs of Shej)herdla argentea, Valley of the Teton, 



Northern Montana, July, '89. Anderson, 539. Perithecia 4-6 '< 



together in a loose imperfect brown stroma, ovate, white inside, their : 

 short, obtuse ostiola, rupturing and slightly raising the epidermis 

 and forming little black pustules scattered irregularly over the 



branch. Asci clavate-cylindrical, 100-110 x 15 //. with obscure I 



paraphyses. Sporidia 1-seriate, obovate 3-5-septate and muriform, i 



slightly constricted in the middle, yellow, 18-22 x 10-12 //. \ 




250 proceedings of the academy of [1890. 



August 5. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



August 12. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on a Collection of Shells from Southern 

 Mexico," by Frank C. Baker was presented for publication. 



August 19. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



August 26. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Spiders of the Family Lycosidte from Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey." By Witmer Stone. 



" Remarks on the Family Muricidfe with descriptions of New 

 Species." By Frank C. Baker. 



"New and little-known American Mollusca, No. 3." By H. A. 

 Pilsbry. 



The death of Mr, Rathmell Wilson, a member, was announced. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELI'HIA. 251 



BAROMETRIC OBSERVATIONS AMONG THE HIGH VOLCANOES OF 



MEXICO, WITH A CONSIDERATION OF THE CULMINATING 



POINT OF THE NORTH AMERICAN CONTINENT. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



Among the objects for which the Expedition, recently organized 

 under the auspices of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila- 

 delphia, was dispatched to Mexico was the determination of the 

 physical features of the giant volcanoes of the south, with special 

 reference to a study of the vertical distribution of animal and veg- 

 etable forms. While prosecuting our observations in this direction, 

 I took the op])ortunity, in company with one or more of ray associates, 

 of scaling the four loftiest summits of the land, namely: the peak 

 of Orizaba, Popocatepetl, Ixtaccihuatl, and the Nevado de Toluca. 

 This gave me the advantage of making personal comparisons between 

 the life that existed in difiereut regions of " cloud-land," at the same 

 time that it offered me the opportunity of more closely investigating 

 the geological features of some of the most gigantic volcanic mount- 

 ains known to us. Numerous measurements of altitude were made 

 during the ascents, and, in the higher regions, always with the same 

 instrument. This was a registered aneroid, tested and corrected at 

 Philadelphia — immediately before the starting, and shortly after the 

 return of the Expedition — at the sea-level of Vera Cruz, and in the 

 Central Meteorological Observatory of the City of Mexico, at an 

 elevation of 7403 feet. To the officers of the latter institution I am 

 indebted for the privilege of making comparisons with the standard 

 mercurial column. 



The results of our measurements show a striking accord in some 

 instances with those obtained from earlier measurements, while in 

 other cases they exhibit marked divergence. The fact that all the 

 summits were ascended within a period of three weeks, were measured 

 with the same instrument, and during a period of atmospheric 

 equability and stability which is offered to an unusual degree bv a 

 tropical dry season, renders the possibility of errors of any magnitude 

 almost nil ; at any i*ate, such errors as may have crept in will 

 probably not affect a general comparative result. The points of im- 

 portant difference are : 1, The highest summit of Mexico is not, as is 

 commonly supposed, Popocatepetl, but the peak of Orizaba (Citlal- 

 tepetl, the "Star Mountain"), which rises 700 feet higher (18,200 




252 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



feet) ; 2, Ixtaccilmatl, tlie foniiliar " White Woman " of the plain 

 of Auahuac, is but a few hundred feet (about 550) lower than 

 Popocatepetl, 



In the following suniniary of our results I have taken up the 

 history of each volcano individually. The peak of Orizaba was 

 ascended on the 6th and 7th of April, Popocatepetl on the 16th and 

 17th of the same month, the Nevado de Toluca on the 21st, and Ix- 

 taccihuatl on the 26th and 27th. 



The Peak of Orizaba. 



The ascent of this mountain was made from the side of San 

 Andres Chalchicomula, which lies not far from the west foot of the 

 volcano, at an elevation of some 8,200 feet above the level of the sea. 

 The attacking party consisted of myself, three of my scientific as- 

 sociates, Messrs. Roberts Le Boutillier, J. E. Ives, and Witraer 

 Stone, and eleven guides and carriers. The two last-named gentle- 

 men desisted from the attempt when not further than 300 feet below 

 the summit, while the strength of the first gave out already 

 at an altitude of about 14,000 feet. My measurements were made at a 

 point on the rim of the crater which I estimated to be approximatelu 

 40 yards below the actual apex of the mountain ; the result obtained 

 is 18,205 feet. I append herewith the data for the determination : 



Reading of the barometer at the summit, with the correction for 

 error (.26) kindly given to me by the authorities of the Mexican 

 Central Observatory, 15,56 inches (395.4 mm.). 



Barometer at the same hour (5 p. m.) at the IMexican Ob- 

 servatory, 23.02 inches (584.87 mm.). 



Temperature of the air on the summit, 35° F. 



Temperature of the air, City of Mexico, 78°5 F. 



During the ascent of the second day, and continued through the 

 greater part of the following day, the barometer indicated a drojj of 

 .1 inch ; this I determined by a re-measurement of ray positions on 

 the down slope, and through a subsequent examination of the 

 barometric reading made at the sea-level of Vera Cruz.i 



The calculation is based upon the tables prepared by Delcros and 

 Guyot, published in the Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, I. 



The elements of the calculation are as follows : 



1 For the use of the daily and hourly barometric readings made at this point 

 I am indebted to the courtesy of Captain Powell, constructing engineer of docks of 

 the Mexican Railway. 




1890.] XATUHAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELrillA. 



Tables of Delcros : 



Difference of barometric values . 

 Addition for temperature . 

 Correction for latitude (deer, grav.) . 

 Correction for gravity (vertical) 

 Correction for elevation of lower station 



253 



3117.7 metres. 

 173.6 •' 



7.4 " 

 10.0 " 



2.5 " 



Elevation of the Mexican Observatory 

 Elevation above point of observation 



Allowance for drop of .1 barometer 



Tables of Guyot : 



Difference of barometric values 

 Addition for temperature 

 Correction for latitude (deer, grav.) 

 Correction for gravity (vertical) 

 Correction for lower station 

 Elevation of Mexican Observatory . 

 Elevation above point of observation 



Allowance for drop of .1 barom. 



3311.2 

 10,863.3 English feet. 

 7403.0 " 

 120.0 



18,386.3 

 180.4 



10,232.9 



563.0 



22.5 



34.0 



7.5 



7403.0 



120.0 



18,382.9 



178.4 



18,206 

 feet. 



18,204 



This determination of the height of Orizaba is considerably above 

 the values which have heretofore been given for the mountain. 

 Ferrer, in 1796, by means of angle measurements taken from the 

 Encero, determined its height to be 17,879 feet. ^ Humboldt, a few 

 years later, measured the mountain from a plain near the town of 

 Jalapa, and obtained only 17,375 feet,^ but he observes with char- 



^ Humboldt, Cosmos, V, p. 252, Bohn's Edition. I have not been able to 

 find the orginal account of this measurement, but there is a brief note, entitled 

 " Height of some Mountains in New Spain," and published by Ferrer in the 6th 

 volume of the Transactions of the American Philosophical Society (p. 164), in which 

 the height here slated (or its equivalent, 1:795 toises) is given. 



2 Op. cit., V, p. 252. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



acteristic caution that his "angles of elevation were very small, and 

 the base-line difficult to level." He in fact, rejects his measurement 

 in favor of the one by Ferrer, remarking that he was " still uncertain 

 which of the two volcanoes, Popocatepetl or the peak of Orizaba, is 

 the highest." No carefully conducted measurement appears to have 

 been made between this time and 1 877, when a Mexican scientific 

 commission, composed of MM. Plowes, Rodriguez, and Vigil, made 

 the ascent of the volcano from the side of San Andres Chalchico- 

 mula. A barometer registering to 14,000 feet was used for approx- 

 imate determinations up to that height, but the actual measurement 

 of the summit was made trigonometrically from the plain of Chalchi- 

 comula. The results obtained ^ give an elevation above the town of 

 Chalchicomula of 9211 feet (2807.84 metres), or, computed by 

 the same observers for the sea-level of Vera Cruz, 17,664 feet. It 

 must be observed here, however, that the elevation of Chalchicomula, 

 which served as the base for the trigonometrical measurement, and 

 which is given by these authors as 2576.8 metres or 8452.6 feet, is 

 placed approximately 250 feet too high. The leveling of the 

 Mexican Railway places the station of San Andres at 7974 feet. I 

 measured barometrically the rise of the tramway which connects San 

 Andres with Chalchicomula (or more properly, San Andres Chalchi- 

 comula), a few miles distant, and found only 230 feet. The town 

 can therefore be elevated only about 8200 feet. Deducting the excess 

 from the figures of the Mexican commission we have 17,415 feet, a 

 result strikingly close to that obtained by Humboldt, but which that 

 investigator felt obliged to question and to reject. 



I am not aware of the reasons which have prevented the accept- 

 ance of the results of the Commission by Mexican geographers, un- 

 less it be that an implicit confidence in the researches of Humboldt 

 has given marked preference to the earlier measurement. Thus 

 Garcia Cubas, in the 1885 edition of his magnificent " Cuadro geo- 

 grafico, estadistico, descriptivo, e historico de los Estados TJnidos 

 Mexkanos'' still retains the figures of the illustrious German savant. 

 This preference for Humboldt's measurement is in the present instance 

 the more suprising in view of the doubt which Humboldt himself ex- 

 jiresses regarding its accuracy. German geographers have, on the 

 other hand, very generally accepted Ferrer's figures (17,879 feet), or 



1 Annales del Ministerio de Fomento, III, 1877, pp. 99 and 113. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



the late deterniinutiou by Dr. Kaska, by means of a mercurial 

 barometer, which gave 5500 metres (18,045 feet.) ^ 



Popocatepetl. 



The ascent of this mountain was made by Mr. Baker and myself, 

 with the assistance of five guides and carriers, from the side of 

 Anieca, just nine days after our descent from the peak of Orizaba. 

 As compared with the ascent of the latter volcano, that of Popocat- 

 epetl is easy, although even here a good constitution and a goodly 

 amount of endurance are required. But neither the ascent of Popo- 

 catepetl nor that of Orizaba is dangerous in the sense that Alpine 

 climbing really is, although trouble might arise from the difficult 

 respiration of the rarefied atmosphere. The Orizaba Commission, in- 

 deed, lost two of its assisting members, (guides or porters) as a direct 

 consequence of this rarefied atmosphere. 



We reached the northern rim of the crater, the ultima tlmle of 

 most ascensionists, at 11 o'clock in the morning of the second day, 

 and the culminating point, which lies toward the southwest, overlook- 

 ing the State of Morelos from a still greater elevation of 700 feet, at 

 1.40 p. m. Barometric observations made at this point indicate an 

 absolute elevation, as computed from the readings of Mexico City, 

 of 17,513 feet, and from Vera Cruz of 17,538 feet, or an average of 

 17,528 feet. The data for the measurement are : 



Barometer on the summit, with determined 



correction, 16.04 inches .... (407.5 mm.) 



Barometer in City of Mexico . . . 585.55 mm. 



Barometer at Vera Cruz .... 29.91 inches. 



Temperature of the air on summit . 45° F. 



Temperature City of Mexico . . 23.5° C. (74°3 F.) 



Temperature City of Vera Cruz approx. 83° F. 



The elements of the calculation are as follows: 

 Tables of Delcros (calculated from the readings at the City of 

 Mexico) : 



Difference of barometric values . . . 2886.8 metres. 



Addition for temperature . . , . . 177.3 " 



1 Meyer's Konversations-Lexikon, article Orizaba. — Grisebach, in his Veg- 

 etation der Erde, (2d Ed., II, p. 568, 1884), quotes Miiller as having obtained a 

 trigonometrical measurement of the volcano of 17,01)0 French feet (18,112 English 

 feet.) Unfortunately I have been unable to obtain access to Miiller's Reisen, and, 

 therefore, do not know the details of tliis measurement. 




256 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Correction for latitude (deer, grav.) 

 Correction for gravity (vertical) . 

 Correction for elevation of lower station 



Elevation of Mexican Observatory 



Tables of Guyot : 



Difference of barometric values 

 Addition for temperature 

 Correction for latitude 

 Correction for gravity 

 Correction for lower station 



Elevation of Mexican Observatory 



Computed from the readings at Vera Cruz 

 Tables of Guyot : 



Difference of barometric values 



Addition for temperature 



Correction for latitude 



Correction for gravity 



Correction for lower station 



17,533.6 feet. 

 It is not necessary in this place to recite all the previous measure- 

 ments of Popocatepetl that have been made, which in a general Avay 

 agree in giving the mountain an elevation of from 17,400 to 18,000 

 feet. The brothers Glennie reached the highest point of the crater- 

 wall on the 20th of April, 1827, and by bai'ometrical observations 

 deduced its height to be 17,884 feet.^ The opposite to the extreme 



1 Humboldt (Cosmos, V, p. 458 Bohn's Edition) states that this measurement 

 had been corrected by Burkart into 18,017 feet. 1 find no reference to this correc- 

 tion in Burkart's original communication (translation of Glennie's narrative) 

 published in Schweigger's Jahrbuch der Chemie und Physik, XX, pp. 385 etseq. , 

 1827. Glennie, however, gives the pressure of the barometer as 15,63 inches, 

 which, if taken under conditions similiar to those which marked our own measure- 

 ments, would indicate a value of upward of 18,000 feet. But no statement is made 

 as to the testing of the barometer for accuracy. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENX'ES OK PHILADELPHIA. 257 



high measurement given by Glennie is that of Truqui and ("ravcri, 

 who ascended the mountain in September, 1855, and found, at a point 

 estimated to be about 50 metres below the virtual summit, a baromet- 

 ric value (as computed by them) of 5230 metres (=17,159 feet.)' 

 Their barometric reading ^409 mm.), made a short distance beneath 

 the summit, would, if reduced to the summit, coincide almost exactly 

 with our own ; and I fail to see, in view of the common datum 

 accepted for Vera Cruz, how our culculated results should differ to 

 the extent that they do (380 feet). The difference should not exceed 

 some 50-75 feet, but since Truqui and Craveri give no formula of 

 their computation, it is impossible to determine whence the diver- 

 gence arises. 



The most extensive series of measurements made to determine the 

 height of Popocatepetl are those of August Sonntag (1857), published 

 in the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge (XI), and in- 

 corporated in an article entitled " Observations on Terrestrial 

 Magnetism in Mexico." The average of three series of measure- 

 ments (barometric and trigonometric, and varying from one another 

 in very narrow limits) gives 17,785 feet for the height of the mountain, 

 or almost exactly 100 feet less than that given by Glennie. We are 

 informed (p. 78 of paper) that the basal height upon which all other 

 elevations are calculated is that of the plaza of the City of Mexico, 

 which is assumed to be 7472.8 feet. The more recent leveling of the 

 Mexican Railway shows, however, that this figure is in excess bv 125 

 feet (Mexico 7347 feet\ an amount which has consequently to be 

 deducted from Sonntag's estimate. This would leave 17,660 feet, or 

 about 140 feet in excess of my own measurement. 



Most geographers still follow Humboldt's determination, made in 

 1804, which allows for the volcano little more than 17,700 feet. 

 This measurement was made from the Llano de Tetimba, lying on the 

 east or Puebla side of the mountain at an elevation, computed 

 barometrically, of 2405 metres. The trigonometrical determination 

 of the summit from this point gave 2993.7 metres, or an absolute 



1 Petermann's Mittheilungen, 1856, p. 361. 



2 Usually given as 17,720, 17,726, or 17,728 feet. The exact figure should 

 be 17,713 feet (.5399 metres, 277(1 toises), as given in a letter addressed by 

 Humboldt to Dr. Petermann, under date of December, 1856, and published in 

 Petermann's Mittheilungen for the same year (p. 479). But Humboldt himself, 

 or rather his translator, erroneously gives 17,729 and 17,728 feet, on pages 251 

 and 458 of the fifth vokime of his Cosmos (Bohn's Edition). 



18 




258 procef:dings of thk academy of [1890. 



elevation of the luountain of 5399 ^ metres (17,713 feet). But here, 

 as in the case of Sonntag's measurement, we liave to allow for the 

 difference in the height of the Mexican plateau which has been 

 established by the recent railroad levellings. There are as yet 

 no data as to the " railroad " height ot the plain of Tetimba, the 

 elevation of which was determined barometrically by Humboldt ; 

 but we have reason to believe that the measurement by the illustrious 

 German traveler was made with the same instrument which also 

 determined for him the elevation of the City of Mexico. This is 

 given as 7470.6 feet (2277 metres"), which is in excess of the rail- 

 road levelling by 123 feet. Deducting this amount from 17,713 feet 

 we obtain 17,590 feet as the expression of Humboldt's measurement. 

 This is in marked correspondence with my own determination.^ 



IXTACCIHUATL. 



The ascent of this mountain was made by Mr. Baker and myself 

 from the side of Ameca on the 26th and 27th of April, just ten 

 days after our ascent of Popocatepetl. This mountain, although less 

 high than either Orizaba or Popocatepetl, is really the giant of the 

 JMexican volcanoes, and it bears evidence of having been at one time 

 much more elevated than it is to-day. The earliest recorded ascent, 

 so far as I have been able to determine, was made in the November 

 previous to our visit by a resident of Miraflores (Sells ? by name), 

 who, I believe, succeeded in reaching the virtual summit. We were 

 somewhat less fortunate, as two impassable crevasses, cutting directly 

 across the crest of the mountain, prevented further progress at a 

 height of a little over 16,730 feet. This position I estimated to be 

 some 75 yards below the highest point. 



1 This figure allows for a correction byOltmanns; Humboldt himself obtained 

 only 5387 metres (17,(574 feet), but he admitted the correction made by his as- 

 tronomical associate. 



-' Peteimaim's Miitheilungen, 1856, p. 481. 



3 If we take Humboldt's own measurement, without the correction suggested 

 by Oltmanns, 17.674 feet, and deduct from this amount the excess of 123 feet, the 

 result obtained (17,551 feet) will still more nearly approximate my own. — Messrs. 

 DoUfus, DeMontserrat and Pavie, of the French Scientific Commission, ascended 

 the mountain on the 23rd of April, 1865, but they were unable to attain the high- 

 est point, the Pico Mayor. They give 5,263 metres (barometric measurement) as 

 the elevation of the highest point reached by them, the southeastern rim of the 

 crater (La Naturaleza, 1870, p. 184 ; Archives de la Commission Scieutifique de 

 Mexique, II, p. 127, as quoted in Petermann's Mittheilungen, 1868, p. 98.) 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



Of the three giant volcanoes of Mexico this is by far the most 

 difficult of ascent, and the only one which partakes of the full 

 dangers of Alpine climbing. A vast covering of snow and ice, some 

 50-100 feet in depth, forming a true Jim or neve shrouds the summit 

 in one continuous mantle, from which several glacial streams 

 descend the slopes to a depth of some 14,500 feet. It was across one 

 of these, which I now propose to name the Porfirio Diaz Glacier, 

 that our course was directed, a course that zig-zagged in steep wind- 

 ings around the deep barrancas (crevasses) which everywhere cut in- 

 to the ice. We reached our ultimate position shortly before 11 

 o'clock of the morning of the second day. The data for our determina- 

 tion of height are the following : 



Barometer on summit, with determined correc- 

 tion, 16.44 inches ..... (417.8 mm.) 

 Barometer in City of Mexico . . . 587.4 mm. 



Barometer in Vera Cruz . . . . 30 inches. 



Temperature of the air on summit . . 32° F. 



Temperature City of Mexico . . . 21° C. 



Temperature City of Vera Cruz (approx.) . 85° F. 



The elements of the calculation are as follows : 

 Tables of Delcros (computed from Mexico) : 



Difference of barometric values . . . 2713.1 metres. 

 Addition for temperature .... 113.9 " 

 Correction for latitude (deer, grav.) . . 6.5 " 



Correction for gravity (vertical) . . . 8.6 " 



Correction for elevation of lower station . 2.3 " 



Elevation from summit (estim.) 75 yards 

 Elevation of Mexican Observatory 



Tables of Guyot (computed from Vera Cruz) : 

 Difference of barometric values 

 Addition for temperature 

 Correction for latitude . 

 Correction for gravity . 

 Correction for lower station . 

 Distance of point measured from summit (estim 

 75 yards.) ...... 



2844.4 metres. 

 9332.4 English feet. 



225.0 

 7403.0 

 16,960 



15714.5 feet. 



925.4 '' 



. 33.0 " 



. 55.0 " 



3.0 " 



. 225.0 " 



16,956 feet. 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



This determination is in excess by 1250 feet of the results obtained 

 by Humboldt (4786 metres, ^ or 15,702 feet), whose measurement is 

 still followed by some geographers, ^ and nearly 900 feet above the 

 estimated height given by Mexican geographers. Thus, Garcia 

 Cubas, in the work already mentioned, gives 4900 metres (=^16,076 

 feet), and the same figure also appears in a small work entitled 

 " Geografia de Mexico," prepared by Alberto Correa, and adopted 

 for use in the public schools of the Mexican Republic (1889). I 

 am wholly at a loss to understand how, in view of the close proximity 

 of Ixtaccihuatl to Popocatepetl, either Humboldt or the Mexican 

 geographers could have felt satisfied with the low values obtained 

 for this mountain. Both volcanoes appear to be so nearly of the 

 same height that the eye almost fails to determine which is the 

 loftier of the two, and, indeed, there areto-da}' many residents of the 

 capital city who afSrm that Ixtaccihuatl is the more elevated.^ 

 Sonntag, who made an ineffectual attempt to gain the summit, long 

 since (1857) madecareful measurements of the height of the mountain, 

 and his results, obtained by triangulation, and published in the 

 Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, XI, are strikingly con- 

 firmatory of my own. His value for the central elevation, the high- 

 est of the three summits or j^eaks, is 17,076.9 feet ; deducting from 

 this amount the 125.8 feet difference in the elevation of the City of 

 Mexico, to which reference has already been made in our account of 

 Popocatepetl, we obtain as a net result 16,951 feet, or a variation of 

 less than 10 feet from my own measurement. It is rarely that so 

 close a correspondence is established between the barometric and 

 trigonometric measurements of a mountain of the altitude of Ixtacci- 

 huatl. 



Nevado de Toluca. 



Mr. Baker and myself ascended this mountain from the side of 

 Toluca, or rather from that of San Juan de las Huertas, on the 21st 

 of April, three days after our descent from Popocatepetl, and five 

 days before our journey to Ixtaccihuatl. Being considerably lower 



1 Essai Politique Nouv. Espagne, XCI ; 14,736 French feet, in Kleinere 

 Schriften, p. 463. 



2 See article " Mexico " in Encyclop. Britann., 9th ed., p. 215. 



3 It is the belief of many tourists, and of natives of Mexico as well, that 

 Humboldt ascended one or more of the three giant peaks of the Republic ; 

 this belief is ill-founded, since the highest point reached by him was the apex of 

 the Nevado de Toluca, about 15,000 feet. 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCFENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



261 



than either of tlie other volcanoes, its ascent is correspondingly 

 easier; indeed, a horseman can ride with his animal to within 

 about 000 feet of the summit, l^eyond this point the ascent, which 

 is conducted over a precipitous slope composed in great part of 

 detached boulders, is very fatiguing, but not strictly danger- 

 ous. The crest of the disrupted crater-wall is exceedingly jagged 

 and abrupt, and in places narrow enough to be straddled. We 

 found very little snow or ice on the summit, and I believe none 

 was visible except in rock shelters. The mountain is thus 

 scarcely worthy of the designation of nevado. Our measurement for 

 the height of the peak gives 14,953(5) feet. The data are as follows : 

 Barometer (with correction) on summit 17.53 inches (445.3 mm.) 

 Barometer City of Mexico (approx.) 23.01 inches (584.5 mm.) 



Temperature of atmosphere on summit . 



Temperature City of Mexico 21. °6 C. , 

 The elements of the calculation are : 

 Tables of Delcros. 



Difference of barometric values 



Addition for temperature 



Correction for latitude (deer, grav.) 



Correction for gravity (vert.) 



Correction for elevation of lower station 



Elevation of Mexican Observatorv 



Tables of Guyot : 



Difference of barometric values 

 Addition for temperature 

 Correction for latitude . 

 Correction for gravity 

 Correction for lower station . 

 Elevation of Mexican Observatorv 



44° F. 

 70.°9 F. 



14,955 



7106.8 feet. 



402.0 



15.0 



21.5 



4.5 



7403.0 



14,953 feet. 



I am not sure but that there is a point on the crater-rim which 

 rises some 15-20 feet above that where we made our measurement. 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



I was not, however, able to determine this, as the lateness of the 

 hour prevented our reaching the position in question. Humboldt's 

 barometric measurement of the Pico del Fraile gave 462 J metres^ 

 or 15,161 feet; deducting the excess of 123 feet from his determina- 

 tion of the elevation of the City of Mexico we obtain 15,038 feet, or 

 about 80 feet more than my own calculations show. Garcia Cubas 

 reduces this difference by some 18 feet, giving as the height of the 

 mountain 4578 metres (15,020 feet).' 



Tabulating the results of our measurement of the four highest 

 volcanoes we find for : 



Peak of Orizaba 18,205 feet. 



Popocatepetl 17,523 feet. 



Ixtaccihuatl 16,960 feet. 



Nevado de Toluca 14,954 feet. 



Some slight alteration of these values, due to the effects of a vary- 

 ing temperature upon the mechanism of the aneroid, ought perhaps 

 to be made; but the correction is an unknown quantity, and I have 

 found that a change of from 20 to 30 degrees F. failed to produce 

 any appreciable difference in the reading. 



The Culminating Point of the North American 

 Continent. 



The restoration of the Peak of Orizaba to the first place among 

 Mexican mountains, and its increased altitude, open up the interest- 

 ing question as to what constitutes the culminating point of the 

 North American continent. The only other mountain that need be 

 considered in this connection is St. Elias, situated approximately 

 on the 141st parallel of W. longitude, and whose summit, is 

 claimed for both the possessions of Great Britian and the United 

 States (Alaska). The measurements of this mountain depart so 

 widely from one another, how^ever, that we are not yet in a position 

 to affirm, even within limits of 1000 feet or considerably more, how 

 nearly it approaches in height the Mexican volcanoes. We are 

 probably justified in dismissing without further examination the 



1 Essai Politique Nouv. Espagne, XCI ; 15,168 feet, in Cosmos, V, p. 281, 

 Bohn's Edition. 



2 I was informed in the town of San Juan that a number of students from the 

 engineer's college of Toluca determined trigonometrically the lieight of the Nevado 

 to be 4444 metres or 14,580 feet. I feel certain that this estimate is several 

 hundred feet too low. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2<).3 



measurement made by La Perouse in 1786, Avhichgave for the peak 

 less than 13,000 feet; and seemingly not much more reliable i^ the 

 datum (14,970 feet) which appears in Captain Denham's chart from 

 1853 to 1856, and is copied into the British Admiralty chart of 1872 

 (Humboldt's Cosmos, V, p. 419, Otte's Edition ; Dall, Kept. I". S. 

 Coast and Geodetic Survey for 1875, p. 159). This latter figure 

 (4562 metres) is adopted by Petermann in his general map of Xortli 

 America prepared for Stieler's Hand-Atlas (1878-81). Male- 

 spina in 1791 determined the height, by means of angles taken from 

 near the position of Port ]\rulgrave, to be 5441 metres or 17,851 feet, 

 and the equivalent of this figure has been copied into the Russian 

 Hydrographic charts (1847). Tebenkoff reduces this amount by 

 somewhat over 900 feet. 



No carefully conducted measurements of the mountain appear to 

 have been made between the date of the publication of Tebenkoff's 

 chart (1849) and 1874, when Mr. Dall, under the direction of the U. 

 S. Coast Survey, surveyed a considerable portion of the Alaskan 

 region.^ This investigator found four different values for the 

 height of the mountain as measured from four points respectively 

 69, 127, 132, and 167 miles distant: these are 19,464, 18,350, 19^ 

 956, and 18,033 feet. Mr. Dall dismisses all of these as having little 

 value, except the measurement of 19,464 feet, made from Port Mul- 

 grave. It is difficult to reconcile the vast range of these measure- 

 ments, whose extremes vary to an extent of upwards of 1900 feet, or 

 to one-tenth of the height of the entire mountain, except on the as- 

 sumption that the angles of measurement were too small to permit 

 of exactitude in the result. And, indeed, Mr. Dall himself rejects 



^ Mr. Dall, in his report above referred to (p. 159), quotes from Leopold von 

 Buch an additional measurement of the mountain, namely 16.758 feet. Grewingk 

 (Verhandl. Russ.-Kaiser. Mineralog. Gesellsch., 1848-9 [1850], p. 99). gives the 

 same figure, referring likewise to Buch (Canar. Inseln, p. 390) ; and a further 

 reference ap]:)ears in Davidson's " Coast Pilot of Alaska," 1869, p. 142, note (16, 

 754 feet, according to Grewingk). But this figure is manifestly Malespina's 

 measurement given in French feet, which resolved=l 7,860 feet; and Grewinjjk 

 himself quotes Malespina's measurement (5441 metres) on p. 404 of his report. 

 Humboldt (op. cit. V, p. 252) credits the measurement of 17,855 feet to Quadra and 

 Galeano, but as these observers were associated with Malespina, it is more than 

 probable that the data here given are those which have been generally attributed to 

 Malespina. Humboldt intimates that the measurement is perhaps one-fifteenth too 

 great, but whether this assertion rests on certain facts contained in Malespina's 

 manuscripts, which the great German traveller found among the Archives of 

 Mexico (p. 419), or r.ot, is not stated. 




2i!4 pr()(i:ki)in(;s of tiik academy of [1800. 



all his iiieasureinents except those made from Port Mulgrave, giving 

 them " no weight in the result, as they were all taken at great dis- 

 tances from the peak, and subject to various disturbing influences 

 and uncertainty in most of the positions (p. 164)." And yet it is up- 

 on the accurate determination of the position "At Sea," 127 miles 

 distant, that " the position of Mount Saint Elias depends" (p. 165); and 

 necessarily upon the determination of this position must also depend 

 the accuracy of the measurement of height. Malespina's measure- 

 ment was made from a point apparently very close to that occupied 

 by the Coast Survey Officers, and his results, as has already been 

 seen, vary negatively by 1600 feet ; but he estimated the distance 

 separating him from the mountain at 55.1 nautical miles. Mr. 

 Dall remarks, in relation to the discrepancy existing between the 

 two measurements, that the doubt lies wholly with the distance. 

 But this does not explain the great range in Mr. Dall's own results. 

 And we are perhaps led to be the more suspicious regarding the 

 value of these when we take into account the discrepancies which 

 appear in the determination of the altitude of Mount Fairweather. 

 Three series of sextant observations were made of this mountain 

 from the region about Lituya Bay and Cape Spencer, with the result 

 of obtaining an average value of 15,447 feet. Vertical circle 

 measurements of the same mountain made from Port Mulgrave in- 

 dicate 15,270 feet, while the average of all measurements is 15,423 

 feet. Mr. Dall calls attention to the close correspondence of these 

 results, and comments more particularly upon the " unanimity in the 

 Lituya Bay observations." ^ A reference to the exact results obtained, 

 without recourse to the delusive system of extracting averages, shows, 

 however, that in place of unanimity we have the reverse. Thus, the 

 sextant observations taken from "Off Cape Spencer" indicate 16,- 

 009 feet, those from "Off Lituya Bay" 15,247 feet, and those from 

 " Off Lituya " 15,085 feet {op. cit. p. 174) a difference in extremes of 

 upward of 900 feet. This divergence in the measurement of a 

 mountain three miles ( =b ) in height from positions 20-50 miles dis- 

 tant makes very doubtful the results obtained in the case of St. Elias, 

 where the distances were still very much greater, and the angles of 

 observation correspondingly smaller. 



In view of the broad divergence existing in these later measure- 

 ments, and the fact that all earlier determinations give less than 

 18,000 feet for the height of Mount St. Elias, geographers will prob- 



1 Including liere the measurements made off Cape Spencer. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2G5 



ably consider the question of absolute height as still au open one. 

 That the mountain closely approximates the giants of the Mexican 

 l)lateau is almost certain, but it seems equally probable that its true 

 position is after, and not before, the Peak of Orizaba. 




266 PR0CEEDIXG8 OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE LIFE-HISTORIES OF PLANTS. NO. V. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



On THE Anthers of Lappa major. 



I have placed on record that the column of anthers of many com- 

 posites, maturing before the style has finished its growth, is drawn 

 up out of the floret until re.sistance is weak enough to allow the 

 stigmas to escape from the staminal tube. As in almost every be- 

 havior of plants, there are extremes here as well. In some species 

 the style easily escapes from the staminal tube, and the stamens are 

 drawn but little, if any, above the mouth of the floret ; in others the 

 stamens are drawn to a considerable length before, they are drawn 

 back to their normal position, by the elasticity of the filaments. In 

 Lappa the other extreme is reached. The tube is drawn so far be- 

 yond the floret, that the caudate bases of the anthers are past the 

 mouth of the corolla, and cannot get back again. The staminal 

 tube, therefore, presents a condition unusual in composite flowers. 

 The Pollination of Crucianella stylosa. 



In the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences, 1887, p. 

 325, I noted that the elongating styles of Cephalanthus occiden- 

 talis forced the clavate stigma through the four anthers, clearing 

 out almost completely the pollen from the anther sacs and carrying 

 up the densely pollen-covered stigma to its ultimate full growth, en- 

 suring the most perfect self-fertilization. I also showed that the 

 elongation of the style and full growth of the pistil were very rapid, 

 commencing about 8 P. M. and reaching their full length in al)out 

 half an hour. 



Observing the pa.st summer that another Rubiaceous plant, allied 

 to Galium or Asperula, Crucianella stylosa, Trin., a native of Per- 

 sia but growing in my garden, had long exserted .styles, similar to 

 Cephalanthus, I was moved to cut some branches and place them in 

 water for study as in the former case. 



AVe have here five stamens, instead of four, and the large stigma 

 is forced through the center, just as in the manner described in Ceph- 

 alanthus, evidently pushing up against the closed 5-parted limb of 

 the corolla, which then expands, the style with the pollen-covered 

 stigma continuing to its full growth. As in the case of the Cepha- 

 lanthus, the jwllen is so nearly cleaned out of the anthers by the up- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



ward growth of tlie stigma, that scarcely any is left in the antlier 

 cell, and yet so delicately is it done, that the five Imes of pollen, as 

 cleaned out from the five anthers, are generally discernible. Nature 

 could not have made a better arrangement for making cross-fertili- 

 zation impossible. 



All attempts to ascertain the precise time of the opening and 

 elongation of the style failed. Though I made several successive 

 attempts with fresh flowers, none opened up to 11 P. M., unless 

 touched with the point of a pin, when the limb would part with an 

 elastic sort of spring, becoming expanded so instantaneously as to 

 defy the eye to detect the motion. In the morning, two or three 

 hours after sunrise, the room, however, being "pitch dark " from 

 shutters, a number of newly opened flowers, with their pollen- 

 covered stigmas would be found, but not with the styles much ex- 

 serted. The elongation seemed to be done gradually through the 

 day, not reaching full length till night-fall. 



Note on Unisexuality in Connection with the Order 

 OF Flowering in Willows. 



After the flower buds have been formed and in many species of 

 plants have reached a certain size, they remain at rest until the 

 axis has reached its full growth, when this has been accomplished 

 the flower buds resume activity. In the well known case of 

 Liatris, and indeed in most allied genera of Compositie, the renewed 

 development of these flower buds is from the apex downwards. 

 In other cases, some Fumariacere for instance, the lowest bud on 

 the spike or raceme starts the renewal. In most willows the re- 

 newal of growth is from the middle of the branch. If, for in- 

 stance, there may be eleven catkins to be produced from as 

 many axils along the stem. No. 6 will be the first to expand, 5 and 7 

 next, then 4 and 8, 3 and 9, 2 and 10, and finally 1 and 11. 

 Singularly enough, this order does not extend to the catkins them- 

 selves. In them the growth ceases as soon as the anthers reach their 

 full size, and the stamen remains at rest until the axis of the catkin 

 has reached its final length. Then the filaments are formed and the 

 perfect stamen assumes its full proportion but gradually from the 

 apex dow^nward. 



It seems to me still more evident that, as I have already pointed 

 out,' this arrest of growth at a certain period and subsequent resump- 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1883, p. 85; 1884, p. 117; 1885, p. 117. 




268 rRocEi:D[N(is of the academy of [18!>0. 



tion furnishes the clue to the huv governing that abortion in flowers 

 which renders the hermaphrodite unisexual. In the maple, as in 

 the case referred to, there is a rest when the anther and pistil reach 

 a certain point. When growth is again resumed, the filament is 

 produced and the stamen elongates, while the pistil remains dor- 

 mant. Then we have fully developed male flowers. In another 

 case growth is resumed only by the gynwcium, the fully formed 

 anthers remaining sessile and barren at the base. Then we have the 

 female flowers in the maple tree. This arrest and resumption of 

 growth in the parts of flowers was noted by the author many years 

 ago in the flowers of the Compass Plant, Silphimn lacinlatum} 



The facts here noted in connection with the willow refer to the 

 male aments. 

 Ox THE Varying Character of Dichogamy' in Flowers 



OF CORY'LUS AveLLANA. 



In several papers, in recent years, I have noted that dichogamy is 

 not a fixed character in plants, Imnight about by any relation between 

 insects and flowers, but is aflected by climate and season. A species 

 proterandrous under one set of circumstances, will be proterogynous 

 under another. I have also shown that certain conditions of tem- 

 ])erature will aftect the female flowers or female organs of hermaph- 

 rodite flowers when the male organs will remain quiescent, and that 

 other conditions will advance the male organs rapidly, while the 

 female organs remain at rest. 



My observations on the hazel nut, (Jorylus Avellana, for several 

 years past have shown remarkable variations. A few very warm 

 days in cold winters will bring the male flowers to perfection two 

 months before the female flowers open, dying away so completely as 

 not to leave any for fertilization, so that the plants would be wholly 

 barren for that season. Occasionally the openings of the male and 

 female flowers have been nearly simultaneous, when a good crop of 

 nuts from complete fertilization has resulted. 



This season is the first since the observations have been under- 

 taken when the results have been reversed. The female flowers are 

 now (Jan. 11th, 1890) abundantly in bloom, while the catkins are 

 far from mature. In former years the flowers have always been 

 proterandrous — this season they are proterogynous. 



Although the deductions I have heretofore made — that male 

 flowers, or male organs of flowers, mature rapidly under a com- 



1 Ibid, 1870, p. 117. 




1890.] XATUKAL SCIENCKS OF I'HILADICM'llIA. 260 



paratively high temperature, ^Yllile tlie female organs continue (qui- 

 escent, scarcely needed further confirmation, the present additional 

 point that under a prolonged moderate temperature the female will 

 advance more than the male has not been brought out so well befoi-e. 

 This, in the hazel-nut or filbert, has never been noted in America here- 

 to-fore to the best of my belief. So unexpected was the fact as to 

 make a statement in the Transactions of the Royal Horticultural Soci- 

 ety of London, vol. V, 1824, p. 311, appear almost incredible to one 

 not familiar with such observations as I have recorded. The Rev. 

 Geo. Swayne says at the i^age quoted " casually passing by them (the 

 trees) in the second week in February, 1820, 1 was rather surprised 

 to see a considerable number of scarlet blossoms thereon in a state 

 of expansion, but at the same time very few catkins, and tho.se few 

 seemed to be in a very imperfect state, not a single one being pre- 

 pared to discharge its farina." Here we have a precisely similar 

 observation in these Philadelphia plants, only four weeks earlier 

 than Mr. Swayne saw them. 



The season has been one of the most remarkable known for many 

 years. Instead of the thermometer varying from the the freezing 

 point to zero, with occasional spells of a day or two between at 50° or 

 60°, the thermometer has only once fallen just beneath the freezing 

 point, while at no time has it risen above 50°. The general remark 

 with English people is that it is an open English winter. The 

 English hazel, therefore, finds itself pretty much at home, and has 

 fallen back on its natural habit, as we may suppose, of producing 

 both sexes nearly simultaneously. 



The deductions from former observations may again be re])eated : — 



Under sudden high temperature the male flowers of the hazel will 

 open and perfect, long before the female flowers are affected by the 

 same temperature. 



Under long continued temperate heat, the female flowers will 

 advance more rapidly than the male. 



There is no specific rule in dichogamous plants. A plant with 

 flowers proterandrous in one season or one country, may be pro- 

 terogynous in another. 



My former observations were made on various flowers, though 

 confined to the hazel in this paper. 



DiOECissM IX Labiat.5-:. 

 In some observations recorded last year I noted that the sexual 

 disturbances observed in some European Labiate, did not seem to 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



extend to distinctively American species, though Old-World species 

 retained the peculiarities when translated here. I now find in 

 Pyonanthemum similar conditions. P. lanceolatum Pursh, a large 

 clump of which from one original plant growing in my garden pro- 

 duces flowers apparently ])erfect, wholly fails to perfect seed. 

 Close beside it is a clump of P. wuticum Fers. with no trace of stamens, 

 hut with an exserted and in every way perfect pistil, seeding 

 abundantly. On close examination it is evident that the pistil in 

 the former is not as i)erfect as it appears to be. It is never exserted, 

 nor do the stigmatic lobes perfectly expand. There is no doubt that 

 these plants practically represent staminate and pistillate i)lants 

 respectively. 



The abundant seeding of P. muticwn under the above detailed 

 circumstances, could only result from the abundant pollen of P. 

 lanceolatum, and the seeds produced by the former must of necessity 

 produce hybrid plants. 



Prof. Gray notices in Synoptical Flora a number of variations near 

 P. muticum, and of one, P. leptodon, remarks " perhaps a hybrid be- 

 between P. muticum var. pilosum, and P. Tullia var. dubium." The 

 observations here recorded add greater probability to the suggestion 

 of the hybrid origin of intermediate forms in this genus, by pointing 

 out the exact method under which hybridism is brought about. 



It may be repeated here that, as noted by the author long since, 

 cross-fertilization must be regarded as the hand-maid of heredity, 

 rather than as a factor in the evolution of form. Its duty is to 

 bring nearer home that which has wandered. 



Self-Fertilizing Flowers. 



A large number of flowers are so arranged as to render self-ferti- 

 lization difficult, and in many cases impossible. Numerous observ- 

 ers have placed on i-ecoi'd what they have discovered in the line of 

 these facts, and have rendered inestimable service to science. There 

 may be a question whether the interpretation of such facts be legit- 

 imate ; there can be no question as to the value of the facts them- 

 selves. 



Observations on the other side have not been as numerous, yet 

 they seem no less interesting. The number that are not only adapted 

 to self-fertilization, but actually self-fertilized, seems as large as that 

 of the other class. We may leave the interpretation till the record 

 is more complete. 




1890.] NATL'UAL SCIKNCKS OF PIirLADKLl'IIIA. 271 



There i.s one salient point in connection with the whole subject 

 worth placing prominently before the student, and which will be 

 found sustained by the most superficial examination, namely : All 

 plants that are arranged for self-pollination are abundantly fertile, 

 and have a great advantage of numbers in the struggle for life, 

 while those that have to depend on external agencies are usually 

 nuich less productive, and even though the progeny may be found 

 to have greater vegetative vigor, or some other element of strength. 

 The influence of numbers is certainly with those which self-fertilize. 

 If Providence is on the side of the strongest battalions, the argu- 

 ment of nature is on the side of self-fertilization. 



It has come to be a rule with the author of this paper, whenever 

 any plant is unanimously productive, to look for and to find arrange- 

 ments for self-fertilization. A few instances of more than usual in- 

 terest, drawn from last summer's experience, are herewith offered. 



Trichostema dichotomuni. — This pretty blue flowered Labiate is 

 well known as " Blue Curls," and is common in sandy places along 

 the Atlantic Sea-board. In man}' Labiates the lips of the cloven 

 stigma remain closed till after protrusion from the flower. Such 

 cases are commonly with those that are classed as arranged for cross- 

 fertilization. In many, however, the lips expand before the flowers 

 are open and receive pollen from their own anthers, which mature 

 simultaneously. In this plant this is the case, and the inner face of 

 the stigma lobes are so bent that they come in close contact with 

 the anthers from the curved up filaments and finally emerge from 

 the flower, as it expands, covered with own-pollen. 



Buddleia curviflora. — Noting that this pretty Japan shrub 

 was enormously fertile, evidences of self fertilization were at once 

 looked for. The narrow tube of the flower is nearly an inch long, 

 the anthers being inserted about the middle, or at half an inch. The 

 ovarium with the pistil occupies about a quai'ter of an inch. The 

 half inch above the anthers is densely clothed with stiff hair, com- 

 j)letely closing the narrow tube. The brush would effectually cleanse 

 an entering proboscis of foreign pollen, or a withdrawing one of the 

 flower's own pollen. But it is not necessary to speculate on what 

 an insect could or might do, for the anthers burst before the flowers 

 open, and cover the whole stigma with abundant pollen. No one 

 examining these flowers can fail to be convinced that they are in- 

 geniously arranged for self-fertilization. As in all cases of flowers 

 with tubular corollas, the humble bees in this region rifle the flower 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [] 890. 



of its sweets by boring the base of the corolla tube. Buddleia 

 Lindleyana exhibits similar characters. 



Vitex Agnus-castus. — This Verbenaceous plant from tlie south of 

 Europe common in gardens as tlie ''chaste tree," is abundantly 

 fertile. The anthers burst their pollen sometimes as nuich as twenty- 

 four hours before the flowers open. The pistil is cloven as in many 

 Labiates, but is remarkable for having the lips expanded at a very 

 early stage. The pollen as it escapes from the cells, falls on the 

 stigmatic surfaces. The stigma at this time may be regarded as 

 functionless ; but the pollen remains attached, and is borne up as the 

 style elongates and ])erforms its part in the economy of plant life at 

 once when the flower expands. After expansion the pistil curves up- 

 ward. The flowers seem great favorites with insects, especially with 

 Lepidoptera. Repeated observations failed to note a single case 

 where a stigma was touched by a visiting insect. Humble-bees bore 

 through the tube for their share of the nectar. 



Hypericum mutilum. — This weed, common in damp ground, is 

 abundantly fertile. An examination of an unopened flower, shows 

 the anthers to be entangled among the styles from which on expansion 

 of the flower, the weak hair-like filaments are unable to extricate 

 them. The anthers mostly remain in this position, shedding their 

 jjollen over the stigmas, getting in their early work to the exclusion 

 of intruding pollen. H. Canadense behaves in a similar manner. 



Phytolacca decandra. — Assured, from its abundant fertility, that 

 the common " Poke-weed," was adapted to self-fertilization, I was led 

 to examine a flower, and found that it was fertilized before opening. 

 The stamens are curved over, completely covering the gynoecium, and 

 the anthers discharge the pollen in great profusion over the styles. 

 These have their stigmas partially decayed before the flowers open, 

 showing that their functions have been wholly concluded while the 

 flower was unexpanded. 



Lyco2')ersicum esculentum. Noting that the common Tomato, and 

 its neighboring Solanaceous plant, Capsicum grossum, the Bell- 

 pepper of gardens, had nearly or quite every flower fertile, an 

 examination of a few flowers late in the season, showed plainly that 

 they are arranged to insure self-fertilization. The anthers of the 

 Tomato are connate, and drawn together in a cone over the pistil. 

 The anther-cells burst simultaneously Avith the expansion of the 

 corolla, and the discharged pollen covers the stigmatic apex. It is 

 impossible for the flower, under any ordinary circumstances, to receive 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKXCES OF PIIILADELrnrA. 273 



foreign pollen. The large i)urple autliei's of the Cai).siciun are 

 drawn closely together and discharge pollen copiously over the 

 stigma. 



Lycopus Virginlcus L. — It cannot be said that there is any ar- 

 rangement of the ])arts of the flower suggestive of special ada])tatiou 

 to self-pollination, but the later flowers of the season, borne on the 

 stolons, are often pushed into the earth in the bud and expand 

 wholly beneath the surface, ])roducing seeds as abundantly as those 

 on the erect stems. No one will doubt, on carefully observing the 

 plants that the flowers self- fertilize. Dr. Gray seems to limit 

 the tuberiferous character of this species to a depauperate form 

 growing from Lake Superior northwards. The tubers are freely 

 borne by the typical form around Philadelphia, and they are often 

 as large as Kidney Beans. 



Humamtlis Virginiana L. — The arrangements for self-pollination 

 here are among the most interesting known to me. It is well-known 

 that the anther-cell opens by an operculate lid or valve. What 

 might be termed the hinge to this lid is on the upper part of the 

 stamen. When ready to expose the pollen, the lid previously point- 

 ing downward, becomes perfectly erect. The fiice which, previous 

 to opening, faced one point of the horizon, is turned to the opposite, 

 and the inside face becomes the outside. The pollen adheres to the 

 inside face of the valve, and so complete is this adherence, that on 

 the erection of the valve, every partof the pollen is withdrawn from 

 the cell. The erection of this valve is, however, accomplished in- 

 stantaneously, and the sudden jerk dislodges some of the pollen, 

 which is scattered around. Some falls back into the cell, some 

 over the adjacent stigmas, but a large portion still adheres to the 

 face of the lid, falling away gradually as moved by the wind or other 

 agency. 



It may be well to note here the order in which the parts of the 

 flower successively mature. As the four strap-like petals expand, 

 neither anthers nor stigmas have reached maturity, which seems to 

 be the work of the second day. As the stigmas become viscid, a 

 pair of anthers only expose the pollen. One anther, and one cell 

 only of each anther, bursts at a time, the other follows some time 

 during the same day. Before evening of that day, the four cells ex- 

 pose the inner pollen-clothed surfaceof the lid. The pair of stamens 

 that open first are those that are in front of the pair of styles — that 

 is, the pair which alternates with them. The next day the pair on 



19 




274 J'KOCKKDIXG.S OF THi; ACADKMY OF [1890. 



a line with tiio [);ui' of styles go through the same process. It is 

 custoniaiy to describe the stamens and petals of Hamamelis as in 

 fours. These observations show them to be really in pairs. 



The Hamamelis flowers in autumn when the leaves are falling. 

 These observations were made between the 15th of October and 1st 

 of November. The insect world has not wholly gone to its winter 

 rest, but it is a very dull and inactive world. I see no insects at 

 work on the flowers, — but I may be told this is an observation easy 

 to be made on any plant. Such a remark has been made on one of 

 my former recorded observations. One who has growing 2:)lants 

 within a few score feet of his library, who has watched them many 

 times a day, and many days during a couple of weeks, might almost 

 venture to say no insects visited them, but accurate statement could 

 only record that no insects were noted visiting the flowers. In the 

 same spirit it is but fiiir to say that the author has not actually seen 

 the valve of the anther fly up suddenly as described above. He 

 has watched witli a lens in hand assiduously for the pleasure of see- 

 ing one, without success. He has, however, seen them erect, where 

 but a few seconds before they were closed, warranting him, as he 

 believes, in assuming the fact as recorded. 



On the Male and HEPvMAPiiRODrrK Flowers of tEsculus 



PARVIFLORA. 



The enormous number of flowers in proportion to fruit produced 

 in jEschIus parvijiora Walt, may have attracted attention. It is 

 recorded as being '• polygamous." The flowers seem to be either 

 perfect or male. 



It seemed of some interest to carefully note the behavior of one 

 I had the opportunity to examine several times daily. The plant is 

 of some age, and forms a l)ush thirty-six feet in circumference. 

 Counting over a few square teet and multiplying by the whole area, 

 I estimated one thousand spikes of flowers. An average spike gave 

 four hundred flowers, so that the total would be 400,000 on the 

 plant. About one half of these had not a single perfect flower, — and 

 the greatest number counted on any spike was forty-six. This would 

 give an average of twenty-three to five hundred spikes or 12,500 

 hermaphrodite or perfect flowers as against 387,500 male flowers. 



In the animal kingdom the number of males born to female is 

 about equal. In the monoecious or dioecious plants it must have been 

 noted that great disproportion exists, but one so great was un- 

 expected. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



In all cases where the branches of the previous year had matured 

 in partial shade, the flowers on the spike proceeding therefrom were 

 wholly male. This is in accord with the views heretofore developed 

 by me that conditions unfavorable to perfect nutrition are unfavor- 

 able to the development of female flowers. In the branches that 

 had been developed under conditions favorable to nutrition, some 

 would have spikes less vigorous than others, ])ut so far as I could 

 see, tliis had no eflect on the production of the sexes. As many per- 

 fect flowers would be found on a comparatively weak as on a strong- 

 spike. 



What I have placed on record in relation to growth -rhythms 

 in Acer dasycarpum, Acer ruhruvi and some other plants, oc- 

 curs in these flower buds also. At an early stage in the bud, the 

 anthers are fully formed and thegyna?cium reaches a certain stage, 

 when a resting time occurs. When growth is renewed the ovary 

 with its pistil proceeds to move forward rapidly, while the filaments 

 proceed slowly ; or the latter move rapidly and the gynoicium 

 continues wholly at rest. In the former case we have the perfect, 

 in the latter the male only or barren one. 



It is evident that up to the time when this last growth-rhythm 

 begins, the flower may be male or female (hermaphrodite in this 

 case.) It is male or female simpl}' as the renewed growth-force is 

 directed towards the gyna?cium, or to the stamens alone. 



The development of the stamens presents points of interest. In 

 the hermaphrodite flower, the point of the stigma and points of the 

 anthers appear simultaneously bursting through the petals, then rest 

 for some twenty-four hours. The growth of these parts is then very 

 rajjid, the stamens and pistils extending to nearly an inch beyond the 

 calyx. This renewed growth commences soon after sun-rise, and 

 ceases with sun-down. The anthers do not burst their cells on the 

 day this growth is in progress. The following day, however, one 

 anther sheds its pollen, the next day another, the third day another 

 and on the fourth day all the remaining burst nearly simultaneously. 



It has become the habit in observations of this kind, to suspect 

 that the whole behavior has some relation to the visits of insects, and 

 to cross-fertilization. But though endeavoring to trace such a rela- 

 tion here, it could not be ascertained. If the division of the sexes 

 is with a view to economy in energy, the enormous disproportion of 

 male to female flowers strikes the thought unfavorably. If we watch 

 the flowers closelv we find bees and other insects visitinsr them 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



in great iniinber.s diirinc: the day, and numerous Lepidoptera by 

 night. But none seem to be pollen gatherers ; they collect nectar 

 only so far as we can see. The stigma and anthers extended so far 

 from the mouth of the corolla, are never touched by any insect and re- 

 ceive no insect aid whatever in pollination. The two earliest devel- 

 oping anthers are almost in contact with the stigma, Avhich is at least 

 quite as likely to receive pollen from them as from the other flower. 

 Granting, however, that pollen may come from other contiguous 

 flowers and reach the pistil before its own pollen has had the chance, 

 it is j)hysiologically of the same character, and could scarcely be 

 considered as coming within the scope of cross-fertilization. 



To my mind no deductions of economic value to the plant can be 

 drawn from these observations. 



On the Direction of the Spiral Twist in the Leaves 

 OF THE Norway Spruce. 



The true leaves of Pines are adnate, or perhaps more properly speak- 

 ing, connate with the branches. Occasionally the apex is free as a 

 mere membranous scale ; or when the branch is young, or under cir- 

 cumstances not well understood, but evidently influenced by various 

 phases of nutrition, instead of a mere scale, a regular green leaf, 

 often articulated, is produced from the free apex. When the axial 

 growth is arrested, the green leaves, having nothing to grow to, 

 develop as ordinary leaves would do, and then we have the fascicles 

 of Pine needles, or the verticils of leaves as in the Larch. The pine 

 " needles," spring from a spur as do the leaves of the Larch, only 

 that in the former the arrested Avoody axis is beneath the outer bark 

 and invisible. 



In the Norway Spruce, Picea excelsd, the adherent leaves are 

 arranged around the branches from left to right as we look at them, 

 or, as some would say, in a direction contrary to the sun. The free 

 portion — that above the articulation — remains strictly erect, as a 

 general thing, so far as the central or leading shoot is concerned. 

 "When the axial growth terminates, the membranous leaves having 

 no axis to adhere to, usually form the bud scales, which are arranged 

 as in miniature cones. We see that the cone of the Norway Spruce 

 is but an arrested and metamorphosed branch, in which what might 

 have been connate leaves, are now free and have become the bracts 

 beneath the scales of the cone. These bud scales do not, however, 

 always remain as scales, but develop to an articulation with a perfect 

 green leaf, as in the regular growth along the stems just as in the 




1890.] NATUKAL SCIKNCKS OF PHILADELrillA. 277 



Larcli or the regular Pine needles. Having no axis to adhere to, these 

 true leaves in the Norway Spruce seem to grow the larger by reason 

 of their freedom. In some cases these leaves from the bud scales are 

 large enough to simulate those at the apex of Sciadopitys, and give 

 the same parasol-like appearance to a spruce branch. 



The chief point of this paper is to call attention to the direction 

 of the spiral or twist of these free leaves. Along the central stem, 

 as already noted, the free leaves are usually on a line parallel with that 

 stem, but occasionally they twist to the right or to the left. The 

 same is true of those of the buds. They nearly all twist one way or 

 other. As the adult leaves around the stem all coil in one direction, 

 one might reasonably expect the free leaves to do the same. It is 

 surprising to find that they frequently do not, as many will be found 

 on the same plant twisting in either direction, though every leaf in 

 the same bud has the twist in the same direction. 



Attempts have been made to explain the law underlying the spiral 

 arrangement of the leaves of plants. The indifferent directions 

 taken by the leaves of the Norway Spruce, as detailed, would indi- 

 cate that, whatever that law may be, it is rather local than in con- 

 trol of the whole system governing the growth of the plant. 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



September 2. 

 ]\rr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in tlie chair. 

 Nineteen ])ersons i:)resent. 



A paper entitled " The Corals and Coral Reefs of the Western 

 Waters of the Gulf of Mexico," by Prof. Angelo Heilprin, was 

 presented for publication. 



September 9. 

 ]\Ir. Benjamin Smith Lyman in the chair. 

 Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Echinoderras from the iSTorthern Coast of 

 Yucatan and the Harbor of Vera Cruz," by J. E. Ives, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



The death of Mr. William C. Henszey, Treasurer of the Academy, 

 on the 7th inst., aged 76 years, was announced. 



September 16. 

 Mr; Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 "New and Old Trochidfe." By H. A. Pilsbry. 

 " The Perisomic Plates of the Crinoids." By Charles Wachsmuth 

 and Frank Springer. 



September 23. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Forty persons present. 



Remarks on Ticks. — Prof. Leidy remarked that in his visit to 

 Beach Haven, N. J. to spend the summer, he found the mosquito 

 less numerous than usual, but in the earlier part of the season the 

 Tick more frequent. One day, in June, after ]iassing for a few yards 

 among some Myrica bushes he picked eight of themfrom his clothes. 




1890.] NATURAL SCtKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



They were repeatedly taken from a pet dog, but usually esca])ed notice 

 until more or less filled with blood. Three in succession were un- 

 noticed until fully distended and voluntarily detached themselves. 

 One of these was weio:lu'd and found to be twelve grains. It was also 

 found that it required nine unfed ticks to weigli one grain, so that the 

 fed ones increase to more than one hundred times their weight and 

 bulk. Curious to learn something of the life of the Tick, the three 

 specimens were placed in a box in the beginning of July, in some 

 moist sand and moss. They sought a slight hollow in the sand from 

 which tiiey afterward did not move. After a week they began laying 

 eggs and this went on for a couple of weeks, until each Tick liad 

 extruded a mass nearly as large as itself The eggs were laid in 

 advance of the position of the body, discharged from between the 

 anterior two pairs of legs — the Ticks remaining constantly in contact 

 with them. The eggs were oval, brown and shining, and measuretl 

 O'o ram. long. The parents became much contracted and shriveled 

 and all died from the 16th to the 18th of August, about the time the 

 eg^^ began to hatch. This continued for about a week until all were 

 hatched. 



The larval Ticks were brown, ovate and possessed three pairs of 

 limbs. They measured 06 mm. long and 0'4 mm. broad. As many 

 escaped between the side of the lid and box in which they were 

 contained, they were transferred into a glass bottle with a cork stop- 

 per about an inch broad. The Ticks gradually collected into three 

 compact swarms, the largest of which was formed beneath the cork 

 its whole breadth, and sometimes, in part at least, nearly a line thick. 

 Another swarm compacted itself in the interval of two crossing twigs 

 about as long and thick as the little finger, and the third formed a 

 dome-like mass, about one-third of an inch broad, on one of the 

 twigs. From time to time they partially scattered and then collected 

 again in the same close swarms. 



Exhibited to the Academy, this evening, September 23d, the young 

 Ticks appear yet to be alive and in good condition, though they have 

 eaten nothing. Fruit and other parts of plants have been placed at 

 their service but they do not even approach them. On two occasions 

 some were placed on Prof. Leidy's arm, but they did not seem dis- 

 posed to attach themselves. 



The mature Ticks present two well marked varieties, probably the 

 the two sexes. In the one there is a conspicuous white spot on the 

 back immediately behind the head, sharply defining a thoracic 

 shield. In the other there is no distinct appearance of the shield, 

 but fainter white streaks lie outside of its position and extend in four 

 feebler streaks on the abdomen, apparently defining the intestinal 

 coeca. In the former the genital aperture is central betw^een the an- 

 terior two pairs of limbs ; in the latter it is between the second pair 

 of limbs. The blood filled specimens that laid the eggs, accord with 

 the former. 



He was unable with certainty to refer our common Tick to its proper 

 place among the multitude that have been named, but supi)Osed 




2^0 I'UOC'KKDiyos OF THE ACADEMY OF [ISDO. 



it to be the Amhlyomma americanum of Koch, indicated earlier bv 

 I^iuiucuri as Acarus aviericanus. There is mucli uncertainty in the 

 knowledge of our Ticks. Koch ascribes nine species to North Amer- 

 ica, referring them to the genera Amblyomma, Ixodes, and iJeriiiacen- 

 tor ; the last belonging to Pennsylvania. Say describes six other spe- 

 cies of Ixodes, Packard two and Riley one. Say's Ixodes seapularis, 

 which the author says is common in our forests and attaches itself to 

 various animals, seems to approach closely the Beach Haven Tick, 

 and Riley's Ixodes bovis also seems to accord pretty well, judging 

 from the figure and charactei's given. If, however, the latter at 

 maturity is half an inch long as stated by Packard, it is most pro- 

 bably a different species fz'om the Ambh/omma americnmim. He 

 had in his possession a Tick, distended with blood, half an inch in 

 length, which came from Camp Sheridan, Nebraska, agreeing in all 

 respects with those from Beach Haven. 



Amblyoynma ditiers from Ixodes in the possession of eyes; and he 

 was by no means satisfied that the Beach Haven Ticks possess such 

 organs, unless they form the prominent posterior angles of the head. 

 The Ticks have been supposed to feed on vegetable matter, until they 

 reach maturity. As the mouth organs of the larva do not differ 

 from those of the adult, he thought this doubtful. 



In the American Entomologist 1870, p. 160, Seed-Ticks found 

 under the bark of apple trees, are stated to be the young of one of 

 our most common wood-ticks, Ixodes unipnnctata, but he thought 

 this has not been positively determined to be the case. 



He had been repeatedly told of a minute tick, commonly called 

 the Seed-Tick, not uncommon in our vicinity, which attacks man, and 

 buries itself beneath the skin. He had sus[)ected it to be the young 

 0^ Ixodes, but had no opportunity of determining the question. 



Note : — The following day, September 24th, the young Ticks 

 appeared generally less active and many were motionless and seemed 

 dead. Thirty active ones were placed on the inner side of his fore- 

 arm, and there retained for ten minutes, but as they wandered about 

 aimlessly and with no apparent disposition to attach themselves, they 

 were removed. 



Though the young Ticks had not fed they actually seem to have 

 grown, for at the present time they generally measure 0"725 mm. in 

 length by 0'45 mm. in breadth. 



The adult male and female appear about the same size, for the 

 two range from I to ye of an inch in length. One of those dis- 

 tended with blood measured -h of an inch long by je. in breadth; 

 and similar specimens after having laid their eggs had shrunken 

 to tV by tV. 



Finely the same day the Ticks were placed in alcohol for pres- 

 ervation. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKXCKS OF I'lIILADEH'HIA. 281 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale was elected Treasurer to serve for the 

 unexpired term of the hite ■Nfr. William (\ Henszey. 



.Skptkmukk 30. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



A })aper entitled " On the Influence of Previous Pregnancies on 

 Offspring," by Charles Morris, was presented for publication. 



Parasites of Mola rotunda. — Prof. Leidy stated that one day 

 during his stay at Beach Haven, N. J., while men of the life saving 

 station were directly off" shore watching the bathers in case of acci- 

 dent, a Sun-fish, Mola rotunda, approached the boat, apparently, as 

 they supposed, sleeping. The fish, weighing nearly two hundred 

 pounds, was readilv taken without resistance. It proved to be of 

 additional interest from the great number and variety of parasites 

 with which it was infested. Some of these had occasioned a consid- 

 erable degree of ulceration along the base of the caudal fin. Chief 

 among them was the large Lernea, Penella filosa, which hung in 

 great clusters from the root of the dorsal and other fins. They were 

 from five to nearly seven inches long, and had the head and neck, 

 buried in the flesh of the fish from one to three inches. To many 

 of them were appended the curious bariuicle, Conchoderma virgata ; 

 on one Penella a bunch of seven, most of which were nearly two 

 inches long. Were also more or less profusely covered with colonies 

 of the Hydroid Polyp, Eneope parasitica. 



The characters "of the Penella are as follows: Head compressed 

 s|)lieroid, veutrally thickly [)apillate, dorsally with a median and 

 lateral pair of obtuse horns. Neck long and cylindrical ; with 4 

 pairs of minute black hooks just behind the head veutrally. Thorax 

 thicker, cylindrical, annulated. Abdomen or tail shorter, narrower 

 and annulated : with crowded, lateral filamentary appendages branch- 

 ing from the base. Ovaries long and filiform. Head, neck and 

 ovaries straw-colored ; thorax, abdomen and appendages black. 



In the Regne Animal of Cuvier, it .say.s, there is in the Mediter- 

 ranean a species, Penella filom, seven or eight inches long, which 

 penetx'ates into the flesh of the Sword-fish, the Tunny and the Sun- 

 fish, and torments them horribly. Similar cases of the wonderful 

 bounty of nature are frequent and remind us of the remarks of Mr. 

 Spencer, considered more favorable to the evolutionary than to the 

 special creation theory. While to both may be applied the question, 

 whv the amount of suffering entailed on sentient beings by parasites 

 could not have been avoided, to the fi)rmer there does not arise the 

 question, why are they deliberately inflicted ? 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1800. 



Of other crustacean parasites of the Sun-fish tliere were three. Of 

 these one, Cecrops Latreillii, Leach, was attached to the gills. 

 Six mature females were about an inch in length, and three of them 

 had the male appended, about half the length, and had well-stocked 

 ovaries. Three additional young females were 14 mm. long. 



The other two species were attached to ulcerated surfaces at 

 the root of the caudal fin. One of them, Lcemargus muricatus 

 Kroyer, of which there were four females, were from 15 to 18 mm. 

 long. 



The remaining species, nearly resembling Lcemargus, seems to be 

 the Diiiematura serrnta Kroyer, of which there were three females, 

 from 6 to 7 mm. long. 



Gliding on the skin, at the sides of the body of the fish, was the 

 circular Fluke-worm, Tristovium Budolphianam, of which four 

 ranged from 16 to 20 mm. in breadth. 



In the intestine was another apparently undescribed Fluke-worm, 

 which may be named Distomum pedocotyle. Of three individ- 

 uals one was 20 mm. long by 0"5 mm. thick ; the others were 40 to 

 45 mm. long and 1'5 mm. thick. The body is cylindrical, narroAV- 

 est at the fore part and obtuse behind, with the ventral bothria 

 larger than the mouth and projecting in advance to an extent equal 

 to the body ; with the skin smooth and trans])arent ; the yellow 

 intestine and the white and brown genitals shining through. 



The soft, yellow liver was throughout pervaded with a cestoid 

 worm, Anthoeephalus elongatas Rudolphi. The organ looked 

 like a bundle of tangled cotton cord packed in the hepatic sub- 

 stance. The larger worms were probably upward of several feet in 

 length, but with much effort about a foot and a half of only one in- 

 dividual was disengaged from the liver. In the larger specimens 

 the cystic envelope of the cephalic end appeared as a vesicle from a 

 fourth to half an inch in diameter. When disengaged, the cephalic 

 extremity appeared as a sausage-shaped expansion, from three- 

 fourths to an inch long, within which was the inverted head and 

 neck, from half to three-fourths of an inch long. The head provided 

 with a pair of lateral oblique bothria, enclosed four thread-like 

 proboscides armed with numerous recurved hooks. 



0)1 Helix alholahrls var. marithna. — ^{p.. Pilsbry exhibited speci- 

 mens of Helix collected by Mr. Witmer Stone on the sand hills at 

 Cape May, New Jersey. The shells, he stated, are rather ambiguous 

 in character, but referable to Helix {Mesodon) albolabris as a variety 

 which the speaker proposed to call maritima. The 

 shell is smaller than that of H. albolabris, measur- 

 ing, alt. 13, greater diam. 22, lesser 18] mm. The 

 surface is very distinctly and beautifully decus- 

 sated by spiral and oblique lines. The base is 

 notably sAvollen near the umbilicus back of the lip. The lip is much 

 narrower than in typical albolabris. 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELPHIA 



283 



The dentition is like albohibrls except that the side cutting- 

 points of the central 

 and inner lateral teeth 

 are less developed than 

 Binney's figures show. 

 There is considerable 

 variation in this char- 

 acter, however, in tiie 

 real (dbolabris. 



The genitalia show 

 the affinities of the specimens more plainly than the shells, having 

 the spermatheca or receptaculum seminis (r. s.) exactiv as in Leidv's 



figures (Terr. Moll. I.). Its 

 prominent character is in the 

 greatly swollen base of the 

 duct (b.), which is found in 

 no other Mesodon, but which 

 the observations of Dr. Leidy, 

 W. G. Binney and my own 

 numerous dissections prove 

 to be a constant and very 

 obvious specific character of 

 albolabris. The penis-sack 

 (/).) is swollen in the middle, 

 as in albolabris. The vas 

 X-^- deferens is as in albolabris 

 exce])t that it is much shorter, 

 not being thrown into a knot 

 or mesh of convolutions be- 

 fore it enters the penis as it 

 is in true albolabris. This 

 last character is an import- 

 ant one. The bundles of 

 coecfe of the ovotestis are 

 shaped like those figured by 

 Dr. Leidy for H. thyroid es. 



The specimens were collected in August of this year. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot was elected a member of the Finance Com- 

 mittee to fill the vacancy caused by the election of ^Nfr. Isaac C. 

 Martindale to the Treasurership. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




-84 riKJCKKDINd.S OF TPIE ACADKMY OF [1890. 



DESCRIPTION OF NEW SPECIES OF SHELLS. 

 BY W. I). IIARTMAX, M. D. 

 Bulimus ruga, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. ]. 



Shell moderately thick, transluceut, ovate elongate, body-whorl 

 somewhat inflated. Whorls 5i, rounded, suture impressed, crenu- 

 late. Four apical whorls with minute spiral stride, aperture round- 

 ed oval. Spire half the length, epidermis absent, oblique lines of 

 growth coarse, umbilicus compressed, lip white, reflected, flat, with 

 a heavy deposit on the pillar lip. Color white. 



Height 28 mm., width 15 mm. ; height of aperture 10 mm., width 

 of aperture 6 mm. 



Hab. Segou Island, ISTew Hebrides. 



Obs. This shell (of which I have seen but two weather-beaten 

 examples) has the facies of a Partula (to which it may be eventually ' 

 assigned). At every stage of growth, the upper angle of the labium 

 leaves a fold on the suture, giving it the appearance of a ruffle, 

 hence the name. 



Bulimus Bernieri, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 2. 



Shell moderately thick, translucent, ovate elongate, whorls 5'-, 

 rounded, suture impressed, surface with fine elevated, regular longi- 

 tudinal strire. Spire more than half the length, epidermis absent. 

 Color white, umbilicus compressed, aperture irregularly oval, of a 

 beautiful reddish-orange color within, lip white, reflected and con- 

 cave ; pillar lip with a heavy deposit. 



Height 23 mm., width 15 mm. ; height of aperture 10 mm., width 

 of aperture 7 mm. 



Hab. Segou Island, New Hebrides. 



Obs. From JNIr. Bernier through Mr Rossiter. 

 Partula Kubaryi, Nobis. Pi. Ill, fig. 3. 



Shell dextral, ovate elongate, thin and translucent, whorls 4i, 

 rounded, suture well impressed, spire longer than the aperture, ob- 

 lique strite cros.sed by numerous very fine spiral lines, umbilicus 

 open, columella wide at base, lip white, reflected and concave. 



Height 14 mm.,diam. 7 m;n. ; height of aperture 5 mm., diam. of 

 aperture 3 mm. 



Hab. Karakaut Archipelago, Bismarck, New Britain. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLI'IIIA. 285 



Obs. This shell is about the size of ParUda Coxl Angas. 

 Received from Mr. Kubaiy through Dr. ]M("»lleii(lorff of JNIanilla. 

 Melania rubricata, Nobis. I'l. Ill, fig. 4. 



Shell ovate, very attenuate, decollate. Whorls 11 or more, tur- 

 reted, flat, spirally striate. Color reddish, lighter below the suture, 

 with dai'ker red flaramules in the light ])art. A])erture ovate, 

 rounded at base, opercle absent. 



Height 35 to 55 mm., diam. 6 to 8 mm. 



Hab. Vanna Lava Island, Banks Islands, New Hebrides. 



Obs. Mr. Rossiter possesses several examples from the locality. 

 Helicina albescens, Nobis. Pi. Ill, fig. 5. 



Shell orbicular, thin, smooth and translucent, conoid, apex acute, 

 base convex, whorls 5, compressed, rounded, irregularly and ob- 

 liquely striated by fine lines, which are sparsely crossed by spiral 

 ones, suture distinctly impressed, first 1} embryonic whorls, irregu- 

 larly foveate, base roundly convex. Umbilicus covei'ed by a thin, 

 white callus, semicircularly sulcata, columella short, aperture very 

 oblique, semi-orbicular, with a faint reddish border within, lip re-, 

 fleeted, pale yellow, finely punctate, narrower Avhere it joins the 

 short columella. Color white, opercle absent. 



Height 5j mm., width 7 mm. ; height of aperture 3] mm., diam. 

 of aperture 21 mm. 



Hab. Segou Island. E. L. Layard, Esq. 

 Helicina hyalina, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 0. 



Shell globose, orbicular, depressedly conoid, apex obtuse, thin and 

 hyaline. Whorls 4-2, compressly rounded and finely striate, suture 

 impressed, convex beneath, with the umbilical region covered by a 

 very thin callus, the base of which is semicircularly sulcate, aper- 

 ture semi-orbicular, lip slightly reflected. Color light amber, oper- 

 cle semi-orbicular, very thin, with a thickened rim at the outer 

 margin. 



Height 4 mm., diam. 6 mm.; height of aperture 21 mm., diam. 

 of aperture 2 mm. 



Hab. Mount Halcone, Mindoro, Philippine Islands. 

 B. Schmacker, Esq. 

 Helicina virido-colare, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 7. 



Shell globose, orbicular, depressly conoid, thin and translucent, 

 apex obtuse, whorls 4j, roundly compressed, with numerous fine 

 oblique stride, suture impres.sed, last whorl rounded, base convex, 




286 PROCKKDIXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



uiiihiiical region with a white callus which is semi-sulcate and 

 thickly foveate, lip simple, not reflected, aperture semi-orbicular. 

 Color canary yellow, lighter beneath the suture, opercle semi-orbic- 

 ulur, thin, corneous, depressed at the center, and of a silvery white- 

 ness. 



Height 4] mm., diam. 5 mm.; height of aperture 2] mm., diam. 

 of aperture 2 mm. 



Hab. Solomon Islands. Dr. Jas. C. Cox, datum (No. 192.) 



Helicina Hakodadiensis, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 8. 



Shell solid, orbicular, conoid depressed, apex obtuse, convex be- 

 neath and slightly carinate at the periphery. Whorls 4, compressly 

 rounded, coarsely and obliquely striate and crossed by spiral im- 

 pressed lines, umbilical region covered by a white vitreous cal- 

 lus and semi-sulcate at base, which is coarsely punctate, aperture 

 .semi-orbicular, oblique, pale red within, lip white, slightly reflected. 

 Color pale rose, mottled by irregular white blotches, opercle ab- 

 sent. 



Height 3 mm., diam. 5] mm. ; height of aperture 2 mm., diam. 

 of aperture 2 mm. 



Hab. Hakodadi, Japan. B. Schmacker, Esq., datum. 

 Helicina Dominicensis, Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 9. 



Shell moderately thick, compressly orbicidar, apex obtuse, more 

 convex above than beneath, slightly rounded at the periphery, 

 whorls 4, with fine capillary stride, suture impressed, aperture oblique, 

 semi-orbicular, red within, lip reflected, white, umbilical callus 

 white, vitreous, thickly punctate and semi-sulcate, color reddish. 



Height 3 mm., diam. 4 mm. 



Hab. Dominique, ^Marquesas Islands. 



Obs. A. Garrett, datum (No. 74.) 



Helicina bitaeniata Nobis. PI. Ill, fig. 10. 



Shell thin, semi-orbicular, translucent, vitreous, smooth, depressly 

 conoid, apex obtuse. Whorls Al, rounded at the periphery, aper- 

 ture semi-orbicular, moderately oblique, lip thin, slightly reflected, 

 base with a white vitreous callus which is punctate, pale horn color, 

 with two pale rose colored bands, one above the periphery the other 

 near the base, visible within the aperture, opercle corneous, reddish 

 and thickly foveate. 



Height 3'. mm., diam. 6^ mm.; height of aperture 2^ mm., diam. 

 of aperture 2 nun. 




1890.] NATIUAI, SCIKNCES OK I'll ILA DKI-PIIIA. 287 



Hal). D()miiii(iuc\ >rai(iuesas Lshiiuls. A. Garrett, datum (No. 67). 

 Oha. Readily di.<tiiiguislied from the preceding species, by be- 

 ing larger, more globose and by its thin vitreous appearance. 



Helicina Garrettiana, Xohi^;. PI. III. fij;. 11. 



Shell thick, depres.sly conoid, apex obtu.se. base convex and 

 rounded at the periphery, suture strongly impressed, whorls 4, 

 finely striate, aperture sub-ovate, dark red within, lip white, widely 

 reflected, sometimes reddish, ])artaking of the color of the shell ; 

 color a light cardinal red, white beneath the suture, opercle thin, 

 corneous with a cord-like rim at the outer margin. 



Height 2-2 mm., diam. 8 mm. 



Hab. Too-apo Marquesas. A. Garrett, datum (67 bis.") 



The animals of the genus Helicina are denizens of dank and hot 

 climates, as the West Indies, tropical America, the Pacific, Austra- 

 lian and Philippine Islands, together with parts of Japan and 

 China. Dr. Pfeiffer, in his Pneumonopomorum Viventium, enumer- 

 ates about 338 species, to which, since the publication of his work 

 in 1876, about 30 have been added. This genus, so numerous 

 in individual species and so widely extended over regions favor- 

 able to molluscan life, seems to require a new classification or a 

 rearrangement of the species which, would facilitate their study 

 and identification. This will require a master hand like that of 

 Dr. Pfeifter's and a wide acquaintance with the species, to enable one 

 to relegate to their proper positions the numerous and diversified 

 species of this genus. At least four sub-genera could be founded 

 with advantage from the genus Helicina. 



Melania Eossiteri, Xobis. PI. Ill, tig. 12. 



Elongated, conic, cylindrical, regularly tapering, decollate, 

 whorls probably 8 or 9, smooth or with very obscure plica? be- 

 neath the suture, surface with sparse obscure spiral lines, suture 

 well impressed, color a dull olive, aperture oval, dull white, with a 

 deposit on the columella. Columella regularly curved. 



Diam. at base 8 mm. 



Obs. I possess three examples from E. L. Layard, Esq. who in- 

 forms me that they were collected at Vate, New Hebrides by ^Ir. 

 Ro.ssiter. This .species is distinguished by its being more uniform- 

 ly cylindrical and tapering to the apex less rapidly than .1/. Arthurl, 

 M. Montrouzierl, M. Lamberti, M. Matheroni, M. Marie or any other 

 species from the N. Hebrides with which I am acquainted. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890- 



Trochomorpha pulcherrima Xnhis. PI. Ill, fig. i;;. 



Shell dextral, thin and sub-pellucid, lenticular, more convex 

 above than beneath. Whorls six, rounded and finely striate, mar- 

 gin acute, suture impressed, with a fillet beneath, inferior surface 

 more polished and very finely striate, umbilical region depressed, 

 umbilicus small and perforate to the apex, aperture simple, lunate,, 

 margin of the last whorl partially occluding the umbilicus. 



Height 5, diam. 12 mm. 



Hab. Aura Island, N. Hebrides. 



E. L. Layard, datum. This is certainly the most beautiful Tro- 

 chomorph from Aura Island which has yielded three new Trocho- 

 morpha and four new Partula. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADKLPHIA. 2^9 



AN ACCOUNT OF THE VINCELONIAN VOLCANO. 

 BY BENJAMIN SHARP, M. D. 



In no island of the West Indies, and probal)ly nowliere in the 

 "world does the student of vulcanology find, in so small a coni])ass, 

 such a field for interesting research as in the island of St. Vincent. 



If we take a boat and row from Kingstown, the capital, up the 

 leeward or western coast, we find the slopes of the volcanic hills 

 carved into deep valleys, which are separated from each other by vast 

 lava streams. The ends of these have been cut off by the never-ceas- 

 ing action of the sea and form perpendicular and often beetling 

 cliffs, from one hundred to one hundred and fifty feet high. On 

 these cliff faces we may read the expression of volcanic action, study 

 the character and extent of the ejections and note the different 

 periods of the eruptions. 



At the foot of the cliff, Avhere the sea has gnawed a deep groove, 

 there are large stones varying from the size of one's fist to a foot or 

 more in diameter. These were thrown from the crater first. Above 

 this layer and filtering between the larger boulders, is a stratum of 

 ash or mud which came down with the heavy rains that generally 

 set in soon after the eruption has begun. The mud is noAV hardened 

 into a compact mass enclosing the small boulders. Resting on the 

 ash layer and often many feet in thickness, is the solidified lava. 



On the top of the spur, in the loose soil that covered the lava, grow 

 rank grasses ; giant Cerei raise their gaunt candelabral forms, and 

 Florida moss, or as they call it here, " old man's beard," droops from 

 the many crevices. 



About a mile from the beach, at the mouth of the Cumberland 

 Valley, is a fine exposure of basalt, PI. IV, fig. 1. The cliflT, formed 

 of basaltic columns, faces the north, and forms the southern wall of 

 the valley, which runs east and west. The columns of basalt vary 

 from two to three feet in diameter and run perpendicularly to the 

 top of the cliff, which is about one hundred and fifty feet high. At 

 its foot runs a small stream, knc^wn as the Cumberland river. 

 There is no doubt but that this great lava stream extended across 

 the head of the valley which at this point is a mile and a half wide, 

 but what causes have been active in removing this enormous ma.-ss of 

 material, I was unable to determine. 

 20 




290 l'ROCKliDIN(;.S OF THi: ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Just before reaching Chateau Belair, a little village, which 

 strongly suggests a Swiss dorf, we pass through a break in a lava 

 stream, which has flowed down the western slope of the island. It 

 is made up wholly of basaltic columns, not so regular nor so large 

 as those of the Cumberland valley, but smaller, moi*e broken and 

 slanting toward the sea at about an angle of 45.° 



The SoufFriere or volcano of St. Vincent forms the northern side 

 of Wallabou valley, through which a stream of water wanders by 

 great black boulders of lava. The sides of the valley are every- 

 where clothed with deep green primeval wood ; here and there a 

 tree fern spreads its softer green over the dark verdure, the crown 

 of delicate fronds appearing at a distance like light green shields, 

 laid upon the green hill side. Luxuriant vines and longlians or air 

 plants, pour over the face of a perpendicular cliff, from the dark 

 wave of forest that rolls back from its edge. After passing into this 

 valley, the path leads to the north and we begin our ascent, on a 

 • ridge of a great lava stream, which leads to the crater, three thousand 

 feet above iis. The path on this spur is at times not more than a 

 few feet wide and as we ascend we look on each side into a deep 

 abyss of green. The cool wind from the peaks above, shoot? in 

 gusts about us and speeds away down the gorges ; ruffling in its 

 ^course the broad flat leaves of the trumpet tree which cause a spot 

 of frosted silver to gleam on the dark green waste. 



Winding past huge forest trees, the path is walled with broad- 

 leaved Balisiers or wald bananas, the moisture dripping from their 

 l)right yellow spathes. We are obliged at times to tear our way 

 through masses of pink and white Begonias ; the wild tropical ex- 

 pressions of our diminutive hot-house plants. 



About two thousand feet above the valley, the path widens into a 

 level s])ot, shaded by two immense fig-trees ; great " beard " hang 

 from their branches, some still swinging in the wind while others have 

 just taken root in the ground, and others still, having been long 

 rooted, one of goodly size and are partially welded to the main 

 trunk. These are called the " Maroon trees " and the spot is the 

 resting ground for travellers going over " the hill " as the Yincelo- 

 nians call this great mountain. 



The path now becomes steeper ; the tropical vegetation begins to 

 lose its richness and to give place to more stunted forms ; trees are 

 replaced by bushy growth and the woods begin to resemble open north- 

 ern scrub ; mosses and lichens take the place of the huge dripping 




1890.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF rHILADEI.PHIA. 291 



parasites of the forest below ; the biisli soon gives way to rough 

 ferns and grasses, and here and there a black charred tree stem, 

 shows us that we are Hearing a sidphurous atmosphere. The path 

 is now much steeper and more difficult to ascend as the earth and 

 rock is covered with loose stones and scoria. 



At last we come to an artificial cave shaded with ferns and creep- 

 ing mimosa-like vines. A short distance above this we are on the 

 brink of the crater, about 8700 feet above the level of the sea. 

 Southward, stretching from our feet, is a carpet of bright green, 

 which blends, a few hundred feet below, into the dark green of the 

 forest. Opposite the mountain on which we stand, rises a vast green 

 wall, a mountain 2500 feet high. This mountain slopes on either 

 side to the sea coast of the island and forms the southern boundary 

 of the transiusular valley of the Wallabou. Far below us we can 

 see Chateau Belair, a mere speck on the curve of the blue bay and 

 rolling away to the south, the foot hills melt into the deep Carib- 

 l»ean Sea. 



Turning to the north, the crater and its lake open before us, PI. 

 I V, fig. 2. A blue sheet of water, set in a circular frame five hundred 

 feet deep and a mile in diameter. On the steep sides, where the 

 SoufTriere bird whistles his ventriloquial notes, grow tall weeds and 

 rank grasses ; whiffs of sulphurous vapor come to us from the surface 

 of the lake and wreaths of cottony mist form and vanish before our 

 eyes. 



Passing along the eastern rim of the Old Crater, which gradually 

 rises in elevation, we come to a spot where a view of the New Crater 

 may be obtained. There is no appearance of an ash cone so marked 

 in the Vesuvian volcano ; the ash and scoria have been washed 

 away by the torrential rains of the rainy seasons. Along the path 

 leading to the rim, and on the rim itself, boulders of lava and col- 

 lections of pumice stone may be observed, but loose ash is nowhere 

 to be discovered. Some may have i-emained but it has disintegrat- 

 ed and formed a soil which now supports rank weeds, scattering 

 bushes and a coarse grass. 



The ^e\Y Crater was formed during the memorable eruption ot 

 1812, where the eruptive force, instead of relieving itself by the old 

 channel, broke for itself a new one, on the northern slope of the Old 

 Crater. A wall separates these two openings — the northern face of 

 which is a perpendicular rock. Its upper edge is like a knife 

 edge and impossible to travel over ; it slopes directly south into 

 the Old Crater, north it drops a sheer 700 feet into the new one, 




292 PKOCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1890. 



and from its base the land slopes some 300 feet to the bottom of the 

 crater. 



The lake in tlie Old Crater has been found to be about 100 

 fathoms deep (600 feet) making the depth of the crater about 1100 

 feet. It would appear to be about tlie same depth as the new 

 one. Whether there be an outlet, or whether sufficient time has 

 not elapsed since the formation of the New Crater, no water, save a 

 shallow pond some two or three feet in depth, is found here. 



As has been stated the Old Crater is an mile in diameter, and 

 judging by the eye it is a perfect circle. The New Crater is about 

 a mile and a half in diameter and quite irregular, a point to the 

 north rising to 4000 feet, which is said to be the highest point on 

 the island of St. Vincent. 



The first recorded eruption of the Vincelonian SouflTriere was in 

 1718 and has been described by Moreau de Jonnes. According to 

 him the eruption was preceded by violent earthquakes. Loud sub- 

 terranean noises were heard in the vicinity of a mountain which, 

 he states, was situated at the eastern end of the island. This out- 

 burst must have been the most violent that St. Vincent has ever 

 suffered, for besides the phenomena usually accompanying a volcanic 

 eruption, the whole mountain must have been blown away. This 

 statement of Jonnes is substantiated by the fact that no mount- 

 ain, or any trace of one, now exists on the eastern side of the isl- 

 and. The SoufFriere where the Old and New Craters are found, is 

 situated at the northern extremity of a ridge, running north and 

 south through the middle of the island, and from this ridge, the 

 land slopes east and west to the sea, the windward or eastern slope 

 being more gradual than the leeward or western, which is rugged 

 and precipitous. 



The destruction of this eastern mountain of Jonnes, probably ac- 

 counts for the diflerence found in the older authorities as to the 

 height of St. Vincent ; Scrope (before 1718) gives the height of the 

 island as 4,940 feet, while the present maps give it about 4,000. 



There seems to have been a slight eruption at St. Vincent in 1785. 



From the beginning of the year 1811 and lasting until 1813 an 

 area of over six million square miles was affected by earthquakes 

 and disturbed by subterranean noises. The enormous pressure that 

 caused these tremblings of the earth was relieved by the eruption 

 at St. Vincent, about the first of May, 1812. This area extended 

 from the Azores in the east to the Mississippi valley in the west, 




1890.] x.vrnuAi. j^ciknckw of riirL.VDKLPHiA. 293 



and from the valley of the Ohio in the north almost to the Amazon 

 valley in the south. 



On the oOth of January, 1811, near the Azores there rose from the 

 surface of the sea a sub-marine volcano, which by the 15th of June, 

 1812 had risen 320 feet above the sea level. 



About the beginning of the year 1812, the valley of the INIissis- 

 sippi was the seat of fretjuent earthquakes, which often rapidly suc- 

 ceeded one another, but more feeble and less frequent east of the 

 Alleghenies. 



" The shock felt at Caraccas," says Humboldt " in the month of 

 December, 1811 was the only one that preceded the horrible catas- 

 trophy of the 26th of March, 1812." The day on which the destruc- 

 tion of the city occurred was a remarkably hot one. " The air was 

 calm and the sky unclouded. It was Holy Thursday and a great 

 part of the population was assembled in the churches. Nothing 

 seemed to presage the calamities of the day. At seven minutes after 

 four in the afternoon, the first shock was felt ; it was sufficiently 

 powerful to make the bells of the churches toll ; it Jasted five or six 

 seconds during which time the ground was in a continual undula- 

 ting movement, and seemed to heave up like a boiling liquid. The 

 danger was thought to be past, when a tremendous subterraneous 

 noise was heard, and of longer continuance than that heard within 

 the tropics in the time of storms. This noise preceded a perpendic- 

 ular motion of three or four seconds, followed by an undulatory 

 movement, somewhat longer. The shocks were in different direc- 

 tions from north to south and east to west. Nothing could resist the 

 movement from beneath upward and undulations crossing each 

 other. The town of Caraccas was entirely overthrown. Between 

 nine and ten thousand inhabitants were buried under the ruins of 

 the houses and churches. The churches of La Trinidad and Alta 

 Gracia, which were more than one hundred and fifty feet high and 

 the naves of which were supported by pillars of twelve or fifteen 

 feet in diameter, left a mass of ruins scarcely five or six feet in ele- 

 vation. The whole of the earthquakes, that is to say the whole 

 of the movement of undulation and rising,, which occasioned the 

 horrible catastrophy of the 26th of March, 1812 was estimated at 

 fifty seconds, by others at one minute and twelve seconds." 



Seven large towns lying west of Caraccas and extending into the 

 Columbian Republic, were destroyed by the same earthquake, and 




294 TROCEEDINOS OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1890. 



it was felt at Santa Fe de Bogota, nearly six hundred miles west of 

 Caraccas. 



One month and one day (i. e., the 27th of April) after the 

 destruction of Caraccas. the relief of this great pressure began. The 

 great smoking mountain of Guadeloupe lay quiet, the craters of 

 Dominica and Martinique were not affected, nor was there any 

 commotion exhibited in the St. Lucian Souffriere. The eruption was 

 so sudden, so rapid and so powerful that instead of clearing a way 

 for itself in the old crater of St. Vincent, it burst from the northern 

 side of that mountain and formed what is now known as the New 

 Crater. 



" A negro boy, " so a story goes, " was herding cattle on the 

 mountain side. A stone fell near him ; and then another. He 

 fancied that other boys were pelting him from the cliffs above, and 

 began throwing stones in return. But the stones fell thicker ; and 

 among them one and then another, too large to have been thrown 

 by human hand. And the poor little fellow woke up to the fact 

 that not a boy, but the mountain, was throwing stones at him, and 

 that the column of black cloud which was rising from the crater 

 above was not harmless vapor, but dust and ash and stone." ^ 



For three days and three nights the eruption continued increas- 

 ing in energy, until the island was enveloped in Stygian dark- 

 ness by the falling ashes. On the 30th, the lava came and, well- 

 ing from the crater, rolled to the sea, which it reached in four hours. 



The ash and scoria accumulated in such quantities in one of the 

 eastern valleys, that the Rabaca river ceased to flow, and its bed, 

 where water is now seen only in the wet season, is known as the 

 " Dry River. " Water constantly flows to the sea over the old 

 course of the river but it is hidden by the great quantity of scoria 

 lying in the old bed, and only after very heavy rains does it rise 

 above this porous material. 



The mass of material thrown out from this single vent relieved 

 an area of the earth's crust nearly as large as that of Europe. 



During the eruption of the Vincelonian volcano, subterranean 

 noises were heard at Caraccas, a distance equal to that which lies 

 between Boston and Washington. Not only were the inhabitants of 

 Caraccas terrified by the noises, but also those who were in the midst 

 of the llanos which cover a space of over 36,000 square miles. No 

 shock seemed to accompany these noises and at Caraccas and Cala- 

 ^ Kingsley's At Last. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKXCHS OK PHILADELrillA. 295 



bazoo the inhabitants suppo^;e(l an enemy to be advancing witli 

 heavy artillery and they prepared to put their cities in defence. 



One of the harndess effects of this terrible explosion was noticed 

 in Barbados, which island lies ninety-five miles to the windward of 

 St. Vincent. The day following the eruption (May 1st), a sound 

 resembling heavy cannonading was heard to the eastward ; the in- 

 habitants of course supposed the English and French fleets to be 

 engaged in battle ; at sunset the cannonading died away. The next 

 morning the sun did not appear to rise ; the island was envclo])ed 

 in darkness, which increased as time advanced. The negroes im- 

 agined that the Day of Judgment had come and rushed in a panic 

 to the churches. Nor were the whites any wiser, they too were 

 seized by the panic started by the blacks and ruslied with tliem to 

 their places of worship. 



A heavy, quiet rain of impalpable powder fell over the island : the 

 trade wind blew not, the roar of the surf had died away ; the dead 

 quiet was only broken by the fall of some tree, crushed to the earth 

 by the weight of the amassing dust. 



Sir Joseph Banks awoke that morning and found everything 

 shrouded in darkness ; he went to the window to open it, but could 

 not ; he felt the ash that had sifted in upon the sill, and said : " The 

 volcano of St. Vincent has broken out at last and this is the dust 

 of it." 



Explanation of Plate IV. 



Fig. 1. View of basaltic columns of Cumberland Valley, St. 



Vincent, B. W. I. 

 Fiff. 2. View of the Vincelonian crater lookin*: north-west. 




296 I'H()CEKI)IN(iS OF TflK ACADEMY OV [I'SVIO. 



NEW AND LITTLE KNOWN AMERICAN MOLLUSKS, NO. 3. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



In this third contribution toward a fuller knowledge of the niol- 

 lusk inhabitants of our American streams and woods, the more no- 

 table paragraphs are those describing a new and exceptionally large 

 Vaginulus from Bermuda, and the portion relating to the western 

 helicoid, Polygyrella Harfordiana. 



Bulimulus Eagsdalei, Pilsbry. (PI. V, fig. .'! ). 



This species was briefly described in the Proceedings for 1890, 

 page 63 ; notes on the circumstances of its finding are given in the 

 Nautilus for March, 1890, page 122. The specimen figured is rather 

 wider than most of those before me. Measurements of three speci- 

 mens are as follows : 



Alt. 20, diam. 11 mm. ; alt. of aperture 10 mm. 



Alt. 21, diam. 11 mm. ; alt. of aperture 10 mm. 



Alt. I62, diam. 8 mm. ; alt. of aperture 8 mm. 



Thus far, the species is known only from Cook and Montague 

 Counties, Northern Texas. Collected by Mr. G. H. Ragsdale, 

 of Gainesville, Texas. 

 Pupa syngenes, Pilsbry. (PI. V, figs. 1, 2). 



Shell sinistral, cylindrical but somewhat wider above, blunt at 

 each end ; light brown, whitish toward the apex ; surface shining, 

 delicately obliquely striate ; apex large, obtuse ; suture impressed ; 

 whorls 8, the last one compressed and flattened around the lower- 

 outer portion, its last third ascending on the next earlier whorl, and 

 elevated into a high rounded ridge or crest a short distance behind 

 the outer lip ; aperture slightly oblique, truncate-oval in form ; the 

 outer lip narrowly expanded, basal and columellar margins broader ; 

 about the middle of the parietal wall, or nearest the upper end, there 

 is a small parietal lamella ; far within there may be seen a blunt 

 columellar lamella ; and some specimens exhibit far within the outer 

 lip the trace of an inferior or lower palatal fold. 



Alt. 3], diam. IJ mm. 



Habitat, Arizona ; exact locality of the specimens before me not 

 known. 



I had at first considered this form as a variety of P. museorum. 

 It differs from that species in its sinistral convolution, in being 




1890.] NATrntAL SCirCNCKS OF PIIILAnKF.rillA. 297 



hroiider above the iniddle, liaviiig more immerou.s whorls, the hi.st 

 one more ascending on the penultimate ; the ridge back of the 

 outer lip is much stronger than in muscorum, and the lip itself less 

 broadly expanded. The same characters will separate the species 

 from P. umsconim var. Blandi. 



Zonites Shimekii, Pil.'^bry. (PI. V. figs. !( 10, 11 ). 



A shell of about the size and shape of Z. nitidus ; moderately uni- 

 bilicated ; chalky-white, without epidermis, on account of its fossil 

 condition. Surface scul{)tured with strong curved riblets above, 

 rather finely striated beneath. S2)ire low-conoidal ; apex obtu.se ; 

 first (or nuclear) whorl i)lanorboid but noticeably projecting, a 

 trifle nuimmillated, snowy-white, smooth and polished. Whorls 4-2, 

 the outer three ribbed-striate. Aperture oblique, nearly circular, 

 the ends of the peristome approaching. 



Alt. 4, greater diam. 5 ', lesser 51 mm. ; width of umbilicus 1 1 mm. 



Habitat, Loess formation (Quaternary) of Iowa, at Iowa City, la. 



This species has been familiar to me for some years, under the name 

 oi Zonites limatulus. It agrees with that form in the number of 

 whorls and sculpture, except that the Shimekii is more sti'ongly, reg- 

 ularly ribbed above. It differs from limatulus in being far more 

 r()l)ust, more elevated, with rounder mouth and narrower, deeper 

 umbilicus. Upon comparing specimens of the two species, I am sur- 

 prised that they were ever confused ; for, except in sculpture, the 

 Z. Shimekii is far more like Z. nitidus than to Z. limntulus. The 

 .specimens described and figured were collected by Prof. B. Shimek, 

 now of Lincoln, Nebraska. 



This form is interesting as being the only well-defined species of 

 Loe.ss fossil which seems to have become extinct ; although there are 

 a number of others, such as Heliciaa occulta and Patula strigosa var., 

 which survive in greatly reduced numbers in a few limited locali- 

 ties, or only in a distant ])art of the country. 

 Vaginulus Schivelyae, Pilsbry. PI. V, figs. 0, 7, S. 



Description of alcoholic specimens : 



Light yellowish-gray above with two ill-defined longitudinal dark 

 bands formed by the aggregation of l)lack flecks and dots on either 

 side of a dorsal light line. There are dark flecks scattered s])arsely 

 over the rest of the surface ; and the middle area of the back is 

 more or less smoke-colored ; the lateral margins are grayish. 




298 i'uocep:i)Ixgs ok the academy of [1890. 



The underside is of a clear yellowish-gray tint. Upper tentacles 

 blue-gray, lower yellowish-gray. 



Body long, broadest in the middle, a little narrower in front, 

 quite convex above, almost flat beneath except for the projecting 

 sole. Surface above seen under a lens to be densely minutely punc- 

 tate ; coarsely more or less wrinkled toward the side-margins, and 

 obscurely rather coarsely pitted. Sole rounded behind, its edges 

 scalloped. Lung orifice somewhat lateral. 



INIeasurements. 



Specimen No. 60,964. Another specimen. 



Of this slug two specimens are before me : one (the type) in the 

 collection of the Academy, the other belonging to Miss Mary A. 

 Schively. They were collected in the Public Garden at St. George, 

 Bermuda, in July, 1888. The more prominent external characters 

 are the large size, dark, mottled coloration, and rather unusual 

 nearness of the genital opening to the sole. One of the specimens 

 is but slightly curved, the other is decidedly curved toward the 

 ventral side ; both are nearly flat below. 



There may be some doubt entertained as to the origin of Vagin- 

 nhis in Bermuda. The lists of Bland and others show the snail- 

 fauna of the island to consist of three elements, viz. : indigenous or 

 peculiar forms,' forms introduced by natural means from the West 



1 This includes only the genus Poecilozonites with four species and a dumber 

 of varieties. See Pilsbry, in Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila. 1888, p. 285. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Indies/ and species imported by the agency of man from the United 

 States and Europe.^ In none of the countries named is there, 

 however, a ^ecies of Vaginulus so large, or similar in characters to 

 the one described ; nor have I been able to find any description at 

 all agreeing with the specimens, although I have examined the 

 literature for the Vaginulus species of all countries.'' 

 Helix (Polygyrella) Harfordiana Cooper. PI. V, figs. 12, V.\. 14. 



Dwda/ochila Harfordiana Cooper, Amer. Journ. of Conch., vol. 

 V, pt. 4, p. 196, plate 17, fig. 8. See also tovi. cit., p. 214. 



Heli.v {Dcedalochila) Harfordiana Coop., Tryon, Manual of Con- 

 chology, 2d Series, vol. Ill, p. 130, pi, 27, figs. 55-57. 



Polijgijra Harfordiana Coop., W. G. Binney, Manual of N. A. 

 Land Shells, p. 114, fig. 81, bid not the description! 



Not Triodopsis Harfordiana Cp., W. G. Binney, Terr. Moll. U. 

 S. etc., V, p. 309, fig. 203, 1878. 



This shell has been so much misunderstood and so incorrectly 

 figured that I feel impelled to refigure it and to offer a few sugges- 

 tions concerning the systematic position of the species. It was dis- 

 covered in the year 1869 by Mr. W. G. W. Harford in the " Big 

 Tree " district, Fresno County, California. The locality is an ele- 

 vated one, lying 6500 ft. above the sea level, in lat. 37°. 



In thus devoting space to the consideration of this question of 

 systematic position, I do not Avish to be understood to attach any 

 great importance to those divisions of our Helices which some 

 authors call sections, some siibgenera, and still others designate as 

 full fledged genera. I am fully aware that many of these divisions 

 coalesce ; we can no more trace the separating line between their 

 species than we can unmix mingled milk and water. Thus, the 

 species Texasiana, triodontoides and Levettei bridge the space between 

 Polygyra and Triodopsis ; Mullani, appressa etc., form passages from 

 Triodopsis to Mesodon ; and through germana with its allies on either 

 side, Mesodon flows into Stenotrema. The recognition of the fact 

 that these sections are all varying manifestations of one type, and 



^ Such as Polygyra, Helicina, Succinea, Pupa, the same species of which also 

 inhabit various West Indian Islands. 



- Helix ventrosa, Stenogyra decollata from Europe ; Helix appressa from 

 the United States; the last is not abundant in Bermuda and the colony may not 

 be a permanent one. 



3 The principal works are Fisher's Monograph of the genus in Nouv. Arch, 

 du Mus., VII, 1871, Heynemann's valuable articles in Jahrbiicher Deutsch. 

 Malak. Ges. XII, 1885, and Semper's beautiful work on the Philippine Island 

 fauna. 




300 JMiOClCKDINCiS OF THE ACADEMY OE [1890. 



tluir a native Aiuerican one, lead nie to associate them under the 

 oldest name, Polygijra, in my check-list of our land shells.^ 



So much for tlie one side. And on this side there is full as much 

 danger in holding extreme views, as on the side of excessive analysis. 

 Let us not profess sweeping views on coalescence of minor groups 

 until we have the species which actually show transition ; and (to 

 pass from generalizations to a special case), it may be noted here 

 that while the species of the Polygyra-\- Triodopsis-{-Mesodon-\-Steno- 

 trema group, invariably have a reflected lip, tlie two species belong- 

 ing (as I claim) to Folygyrella have a blunt lip, not in the least ex- 

 panded or reflexed. I prefer to keep very different things apart. 



Dr. Cooper's original description is excellent, but the figures are 

 bad. The latter are copied by Tryon in the Manual of Conchology, 

 Binney describes a wholly different shell in his two publications — 

 a shell which has, he states, an expanded lip. In his Manual of 

 American Land Shells the species is said by him to have four whorls 

 and is placed in Polygyra. Still later (3rd Supplement to Terr. 

 Moll. V.) Mr. Binney seems to entertain a suspicion that the Trio- 

 dopsis Roperi Pils. (which he strangely enough places in Polygyra !) 

 is the same species. The mistakes and inconsistencies of this record 

 would be indeeel perplexing were it not for the fact that Mr. Binney 

 has never seen the H. Harfordiana. A single examination would 

 doubtless have convinced him that it is, as Dr. Cooper states in his 

 original description, most intimately allied to Polygyrella jjolygyrella. 

 Figure 81 of the Manual of American Land Shells is incorrect in 

 showing the parietal tooth too far within the aperture. The original 

 figures have the same defect. 



With Polygyrella polygyrella this species agrees in general form, 

 color, sculpture and texture, as well as in the form of the aperture 

 and the blunt, not at all expanded lip. In texture and character of 

 the lip both species are very different from Polygyra and Triodopsis ; 

 the species of these last two sections have the lip expanded and re- 

 flexed. 



The section Polygyrella may be defined thus: 



Shell disk-sliaped, the spix'e nearly flat, periphery rounded, even 

 in the young ; umbilicus vvide within, showing all the whorls. 

 Texture somewhat vitreous and subtranslucent ; ribbed-striate above, 

 polished beneath ; color yellow, yellowish-green or light brown. 

 Whorls six to eight, narrow, slowly widening, the last a trifle descend- 



1 Proc. Acad. N. S. Phila. 1889, p. 193. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE I'lIIEADi:!,!'!! lA. 301 



ing in fi-ont. Aperture subtriiingular, ohlicjue ; peristome blunt, 

 not expanded, thickened within, with or without lip teeth ; parietal 

 wall bearing a stout, triangular, erect entering tooth. 



The species may stand as follows ; 



(1.) Peristome with two lip-teeth ; no denticles inside the body- 

 whorl. H. Harford iana. 



(2.) No lip-teeth ; body-whorl with several internal pairs of 

 denticles visible through the base. H. jjolygyrella. 



Dr. Cooper's ingenious supposition that the internal denticles 

 of H. polygyrella are "swallowed" lip teeth I find to be erroneous, 

 as they are formed quite a distance within the whorl, not at the 

 edge of the advancing lip. 



H. Harfordiana has been found only at the spot named above, 

 and only two specimens are known : that figured on the plate 

 accompanying this ])aper, and one other, a young shell, in the 

 collection of Dr. Cooper. 

 Goniobasis Crandalli. (PI. V, fig.s. 4, 6). 



Shell turreted, moderately tapering, truncated, with three and 

 one-half whorls remaining. These are very convex, separated 

 by deep sutures, and are more or less malleated (encircled by flat- 

 tened facets). The texture is exceptionally thin for a Melanian. 

 Color a very pleasing shade of olive-green, either unicolored or 

 having two chestnut bands, a narrow one above the periphery and 

 a wider on the base. The young ai'e much more conical, more 

 rapidly tapering than the adults, with an acuminate spire, and 

 when quite young the body-whorl is seen to be angulated at the cir- 

 cumference. The aperture is ovate, less than half but exceeding a 

 third the length of the whole shell ; the lip is a trifle sinuous. The 

 umbilical region is somewhat indented, and the inner lij) is folded 

 over upon it, very much as in Limncea. 



Alt. 122, diam. 6 mm.; alt. of aperture 5 mm., breadth 02 to 

 31 mm. 



Habitat, Mammoth Spring, Arkansas. 



A large number of shells have been examined by me, and com- 

 parisons made with all of the lengthened Gonlohases. The only 

 form really near in appearance is the western G. nigrina, which has 

 similar round whorls. Of the species occupying the same geographic 

 section, Professor Call's G. Ozarkensis is perhaps nearest ; but no one 

 could confuse specimens of the two, both young and adult shells 

 having a completely diverse facies. Of the latter species I have 




•'^02 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



.seen very many specimens ; and through the courtesy of my friends 

 Messrs O. A. Crandall and F. A. Sampson of Sedalia, Missouri, I 

 liave been euabled,to study and compare a large number of other 

 Trans-Mississippi Strepomatids. 




1890.] NATLRAL SCIKNCES OF rilU-ADKLl'IIIA. 808 



THE CORALS AND CORAL REEFS OF THE WESTERN WATERS OF 

 THE GULF OF MEXICO. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPKIN. 



Oueof the peculiarities of Vera Cruz which almost first arrest 

 the eye of the traveler is the vast quantity of coral that has been 

 used in construction. The pier-fronts, the sea-wall, and the more 

 ancient houses show equally the use that has been made of this 

 material, the piedra de mucar of the inhabitants. Alexander von 

 Humboldt, in his Essai Politicjue sur la Nouvelle Espagne, speaks of 

 this piedra de mucar, and others after him refer to the same mater- 

 ial. The species of coral contained in the rock are mainly Orbi- 

 cella cavernosa (f), 0. annularis, Diploria cerebriforniis and M(e(tn- 

 f/?-/»r/ s^rt'^'o.sa, and since these species all inhabit the waters of the 

 warm Atlantic, in and out of the Gulf region, it would seem but 

 natural to assume that the Vera Cruz rock was obtained somewhere 

 in the vicinity of the city. On entering the port on a calm day the 

 growing coral-masses can be distinctly seen from the bow of the ves- 

 .sel, and all around are a number of islets and banks which closer 

 inspection shows to be made up almost entirely of living and dead 

 coral. The larger vessels anchor in the deeper waters that separate 

 the growing banks, while the smaller craft drop their anchors 

 directly on the heads of living coral. The small boat which lands 

 passengers from the steamers carries the traveler directly over a 

 line of reef, whose contours, barely removed more than a pole's 

 length from the eye of the observer, appear sharply defined through 

 the perfectly clear and transparent waters. 



In view of the peculiar conditions which surround these reefs, it 

 is difficult to understand'how it has come to be the general belief 

 among scientists that coral-reefs are not found in the western waters 

 of the Gulf of Mexico, a belief that has held its own for a period of 

 nearly half a century, or ever since Darwin published his classical 

 woi'k on the "Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs" (1842). 

 Thus, neither in the first edition of this w'ork nor in the last (1889, 

 edited by Prof. Bonney) is mention made of the occurrence of such 

 reefs, nor do they appear on the map of distribution which accom- 

 panies the work. Prof. Dana, writing in 1890 (" Corals and Coral 

 Islands," 8d edition), says : " But the west shores of the Gulf of 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890.. 



Mexico, ai^ well as the northern, like "West Florida, are mostly low, 

 and without reefs ; they are within the influence of the Mississippi 

 and other large rivers" (p. 352). Can it be assumed that all 

 travelers to the region have so far feared a visitation of the yellow 

 fever as to force them to speed their journey in such a way as not to 

 permit an examination of the ground that was about them? Or 

 has this fear kept scientists away generally? I must admit that the 

 ten days of June which I, in company with my associate, Mr. 

 Frank C. Baker, spent in exploring the reefs and sands of Vera 

 Cruz were all that could have been desired, and neither of us ex- 

 perienced any ill effects from out-door labor. When we were 

 not on the water we were on the hot sands, but the highest registry 

 of the thermometer was only 92° F., and after 10 o'clock in the 

 morning the in-draught of cool air from the sea was such as to render 

 travel and work not only tolerable but pleasant. 



The species of coral collected by us are the following : 

 Madrepora prolifera, Lam. 



A very abundantly represented species, rising to within about six 

 feet, or less, of the surface of the water. It corresponds in all essen- 

 tials of structure with specimens of the same species from the Dry 

 Tortugas and from the Florida Reefs generally. 



Madrepora palmata, Lam. 



This magnificent species occurs in association with the above, 

 forming heads from Ave to ten feet, or moVe, in expanse. It covers large 

 areas in the shallower reef-waters, where its rich brown and yellow 

 colors are seen to great advantage. Many of the older speci- 

 mens show the palmations in distinct tiers or series, and not merely 

 on a single plane ; the crateriform protuberances, largely covering 

 anneliditubes, are very abundant, and give to the corallum a sin- 

 gularly striking and robust appearance. 



I feel doubtful if the palmate form of the corallum, as seen in M. 

 palmata, M. flubelluni and M. alces (East Indies), is in itself a char- 

 acter sufficient to distinguish the species from those forms, agreeing 

 with the palmate types in other respects, in which the corallum is 

 strictly digitate. My associate, Mr. J. E. Ives, has called my atten- 

 tion to the tendency -in the direction of digitation which many in- 

 dividuals of the palmate species exhibit. This is carried so far in 

 some of the specimens contained in the collections of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences that it becomes difficult, if not really impossi- 

 ble, to class the individuals. The tendency toward digitation shows 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELl'IlIA. 805 



itself more particularly on the plane of the frond, and is but rarely 

 marginal. 



It seems to me likely that certain special conditions of the envi- 

 ronment are directly instrumental in bringing about some of those 

 modifications in outline which have been held to be of specific 

 value; but if such is the case, I was unable in the present instance 

 to determine any governing cause. In the Bermudas I thought that 

 the crowding of the calyces on one side of the stem of Ocalina was 

 due to the action of local currents, or to one-sided deposit of shore- 

 sediment ; and I believe that a similar observation, or one much in 

 harmony with it, has been made in the case of certain digitate species 

 of madrepore. 

 Porites furcata, Lam. 



A number of individuals of this species were found washed up on 

 the shingle banks of the Isla Verde and of Sacrificios Island. The 

 frequency of fragments shows that the species must be abundant, 

 but we failed to find the exact locality of its occurrence. Not un- 

 likely it is in the vvaters of Anegada Reef 



Porites astraeoides, Lesueur. 



Abundant among the more massive corals of the inner waters. 

 Siderastrsea galaxea, Ellis and Solandt-r. 



Several specimens obtained in the inner waters; also washed up 

 on the beach of the Isla Verde. 

 Orbicella annularis, Lam. 



I identify with this form several rolled or worn fragments, whose 

 partially obliterated characters do not, perhaps, allow of absolute 

 specific determination. This is one of the common forms in the 

 Vera Cruz walls. 



I suspect that several of the generally recognized species of 

 Orbicella are only varietal types, but the material at my command 

 does not permit me to determine this point with positiveness. The 

 specific characters are drawn in very close limits, and I doubt if 

 they can be made applicable to a large series of individuals of any one 

 group. We dredged undoubted specimens of the Orbicella annularis 

 — at least of the form figured as such by Pourtales in his report on 

 the Florida corals — off the coast of Yucatan, near Progreso, in about 

 20 feet of water. The ccenenchyma is of a brilliant vermilion color. 

 Neither Dana nor Milne-Edwards mentions the color of the animal, 

 21 




306 l'K()(KKt)rXGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



and it is singular that the hitter author states that the habitat of the 

 .s[)ecies is unknown.' 

 Orbicella ^\<. / 



A well-presei'vc^d, waslied fragment of a subglobose form, \vho.se 

 characters do not seem to fit in with those of any described species. 

 In general appearance it at once recalls 0. annularis, and not im- 

 possibly it may be a variety of that species; but the septa of the 

 coralluni are compound, divaricating or trivaricating, and appear 

 in transverse section 24 in number. They are much finer than in 

 typical 0. annularis, as are also the irregular and multii)le cells in 

 the intercalicular wall. 



P^'ound on the beach of the Isla Verde. 



! Orbicella cavernosa, Esper. 



Several fragments from Sacrificios Island and elsewhere which I 

 doubtfully refer to this species. The intercalicular spaces are large- 

 ly cellular, with the form in part of the letter V, and the species thus 

 approaches 0. radlata, Ellis and Solander. From the latter it is, 

 however, distinguished by the smaller size of the calyces, and by the 

 more compact coralluni. In certain respects, again, the species ap- 

 l)roaches 0. glaucopis, of Dana, from the Fiji Islands.'^ 



This species of coral is largely represented in the wall-structures of 

 Vera Cruz, but a second related species, possibly 0. radiata, occurs 

 associated with it. We failed to obtain any living OrhiceUm in the 

 Vera Cruz waters, and the species are probably most abundant on 

 the outer tjorder of the reef-sea. 

 Maeandrina strigosa, Dana. 



This is one of the two common forms of brain-coral which enter 

 mU) the construction of the reefs. It forms large orbicular or 

 elliptical heads, four or five feet, or more, in diameter, and shows to 

 great advantage in the shallower waters through its brilliant orange 

 coloring. The basal attachment is often limited in area, and 

 " rotten " besides, so that a strong jerk will frequently dislodge the 

 head from its moorings. In this manner we obtained a number of 

 large specimens, the divers using principally their hands alone in 

 forcing. 



1 Histoire Naturelle des Coralliaires, II, p. 474 (Heliastrsea.) 

 - The Mexican form agrees absolutely with a coral from the Post-Pliocene 

 deposits of Sanlo Domingo, contained in the collections of the Academy, and 

 which has been determined by Pourtales to be O. cavernosa. But in this form, as 

 in its more western representative, the intercaliculars spaces are largely cellular. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADKLl'IU A. 307 



This is the only Mceandriua that was found in these waters, and 

 I searched in vain among our specimens for M. hthyrinthica — at 

 least, for that form which Dana identifies with Ellis's description and 

 figure. I have little doubt that Ellis himself included in his species 

 the form which is now referred to M. sfrigosa, but there certainly 

 appears to be a well-marked difference between the two species. 

 The upright and very thin calicular walls, and the closely packed 

 septa (45-50 to the inchj, plainly identify the Vera Cruz species with 

 Dana's M. strigosa. I found both species in the Bermudian waters. 



Diploria cerebriformis, Lam. 



This species is found in close association with the last, which in 

 general habit and in coloring it also resembles. Both species are very 

 numerously represented in all stages of development, and they build 

 up a perfect pavement of coral — a pavement of giant cobble-stones, 

 as it were. Their weathered masses are seen everywhere in the old 

 stone constructions of Vera Cruz, where they constitute the true 

 piedra de nmcar. 



Both species of brain-coral rise to within a very short distance of 

 the surface, and we nowhere found them to descend below about 25 

 feet ; usually they keep within a zone of some 5 — 15 feet. They 

 occur closely packed, and where largely developed, in a way monop- 

 olize a given area, to the exclusion of the upright Madreporaria. 

 Oculina sji. ? 



r obtained a fragment of a species of this genus, but unfortunatelv 

 it was misplaced before I had a' chance to determine its specific 

 characters. 



Cladocora (Caryophyllia) flexuosa, Liiuiiuck, Anim. vSans. Vert., 2J. Ed., II, p. 352. 

 Ellis ami Soliinder. ''Zoophytes," pi. 32, fig. 1. (no description). Lamouroux, 

 Expos, Method, Polypiers p. 49, pi. 32, fig. 1. 



I identify with this species a form that is found in l)unclied masses 

 on the bases ofsomeof the Majandrinas and gorgonians, and agrees 

 well with the figures of Ellis and Solander, and with the descrip- 

 tions furnished by the authorities above quoted and by Dana 

 (" Zoophytes," p, 381). Lamarck doubtfully refers the species to 

 the Indian Ocean, but Dana, more <;orrectIy, believes it to be AVest 

 Indian. Verrill, in his synonymic list of species described by Dana, 

 api>ended to the latter's " Corals and Coral Islands," doubtfully 

 identifies the form in question with Cladocora stellaria, of Edwards 

 and Haime (Annales des Sciences Naturelles Ser. 3, Zoology, XI, p. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



807 — X, pi. 7, figs. 9, 9a). This identification is, I believe, erro- 

 neous. Cladocora stellaria is a Mediterranean species, and is dis- 

 tinguished by a shallow cup ; in the form from the Mexican Gulf 

 the cup is deep, almost profound. The species is likewise distinct 

 from that figured as Cladocora arbxiscida in Agassiz's report on the 

 Florida Reefs. 



Plexaura (Gorgonia; flexuosa, Lamour. Gorgonia angniculus, Dana (U. S. Ex- 

 ploring Expedition, Zoophytes, p. 668.) 



This is the only species of gorgonian that we obtained in the 

 Vera Cruz waters, but I have little doubt that others are j)resent. 

 We observed, however, none of those large Gorgonia fields which so 

 l)eautify the waters of the Bermudas and excite the wonder of the 

 visitor to those islands. 



We obtained from the shallows about Progreso, northern shore of 

 Yucatan, the Xlj)hlgorgia anceps of Pallas (Elenchus Zoophytorum, 

 p. 183). The species is fairly common there. I feel confident that 

 the Xiphigorgia Guadalupensis of Duchassaing and ^lichelotti 

 (Memoire sur les Coralliaires des Antilles, Mem. Accad. Torino, 2d 

 ser., XIX p. 309, pi. IV, fig. 3) is only this species, and likely the 

 same is true of A"^. Americana of these authors (Op. cit., XXIII (2d 

 ser.) p. 113, pi. II, fig, 6). These investigators, while furnishing 

 good illustrations of their material, have been singularly unfortunate 

 in their determinations and descriptions of species. 



The Reefs. 



The reefs of the A^era Cruz waters consist of a number of detached 

 islands or island banks, from less than half a mile to a mile and a half 

 in length, which extend eastward from the coast line for a distance 

 of nearly six miles. They are known as the Gallega (on which is 

 built the famous Castle of San Juan de Uli'ia) Galleguilla, Blan- 

 quilla, Anegada de Adentro, Isla Verde, Islote de Pajaros and Sac- 

 rificios. Of these, the Gallega, which is separated medially by a 

 channel of water of moderate depth, is the largest, measuring in a 

 north-and-south direction, considerably over a mile. Two other 

 banks of very much smaller dimensions are the Lavandera, lying 

 to the southeast of Gallega, and Terranova, between Sacrificios Isl- 

 and and the Islote de Pajaros. The outer boundaries of these reefs 

 enclose a triangular body of water whose base is the coast line and 

 whose apex is the Anegada de Adentro. 



A second series of reefs begins about eight miles to the southeast, 

 or opposite the promontory of Anton Lizardo, and likewise extends 

 triangularly out to sea. The islets of this series (Arrecife de Cho- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCKiS OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



pos, Medio, Cabeza, Anegada de Afuera, etc.) are considerably 

 larger than those of the first, the Chopos reef measuring nearly three 

 miles in length (N. W. — S. E.) Owing to the limited time at our 

 command, we were unable to visit these lower reefs, and from per- 

 sonal observation, therefore, I am unable to say in how far they are 

 purely of coral structure. But from the statements of those who 

 are acquainted with the waters, I gather that they are largely identi- 

 cal in formation with the islets lying off Vera Cruz, and the.ir general 

 l)Osition and direction lead me to infer that tliey have a common 

 origin. On tlie hydrographic charts all the dangerous banks are 

 marked as reefs, but this should not be taken to necessarily mean 

 " coral reefs." Thus, the reefs off Punta Gorda, lying 3-4 miles to 

 the northwest of Vera Cruz, I found to be serpuloid and not coral, 

 and the same is true, in great measure, of the Hornos reef, which lies 

 about a mile to the southeast of the city. It should also be stated 

 that the " coral sand" of hydrographic charts is not necessarily a sand 

 of triturated coral, but may be of other limestone formation. 



An examination of the accompanying maps (Pi's. VI and VII) 

 shows that the main axis of nearly all the islands is directed in a N. W. 

 — S. E. line, or in a direction parallel with the coast, a condition doubt- 

 less due to the interaction of prevalent winds and local currents, the 

 latter of which shape the position of the detrital material. This is 

 well shown by the heaps of shingle, coral-fragments, shells, etc., which 

 have accumulated on the southeastern faces of some of the banks — 

 the general lee-side of both wind and current — either as the result 

 of long-continued action or of a single storm. Such deposits are 

 especially well developed on Blanquilla and the Isla Verde ; the isl- 

 and portion of the Sacrificios reef is likewise situated in the south- 

 eastern half of the circle of coral by which it is surrounded. Much 

 the same contours that we see in the banks to-day already existed a 

 century ago, as may be learned from the magnificent chart prepared 

 by Ponzoni, in 1807, for the use of the Spanish Hydrographic 

 Service.! This shows that the dry mass of Blanquilla already then 



1 This extremely rare map of the harbor of Vera Cruz, of which, I am in- 

 formed, only two copies exist to-day in the whole of Mexico, was published in 1816. 

 It is by far the most detailed of all the maps illustrating this portion of the Gulf 

 waters, and it is especially interesting in connection with the study of coral reefs, as it 

 carries back the authentic history approximately one hundred years. For the use 

 of this map, and the permission to make a copy of it, I am [indebted to Captain 

 Powell, of Vera Cruz, Chief of Construction of Docks of the Mexican Railway. 

 To the same gentleman, and to Messrs. Hall and Santiago Shirley, representing 

 also the Mexican Railway, I am further indebted for many facilities offered for 

 the exploration of the reefs and the accomplishment of our mission generally. 




310 PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACAUEIMY OF [1890. 



existed, but an additional structure, in the form of a stone wall much 

 resembling apiece of masonry, has been superadded as the result of 

 a single heavy storm, the hurricane of Sep. 8, 1888. 



All of the reefs receive a breaking water, caused by theup-throw 

 of disjointed boulders, and the heavier break is on the lee or shore- 

 side, where the rock-masses have accunnilated in greatest abund- 

 ance. The long rolling surf, occurring in scattered patches over the 

 blue waters, is a beautiful sight of the harbor. The more or less 

 regularly oval shape of the reefs recalls the atoll-form, and a hasty 

 examination of the region might lead to the assumption that the 

 islets are true atolls. But this is not the case. It is true that a 

 circular or elliptical form distinguishes some of the reefs, and that 

 in others a patch of dry land is found surrounded by a more or less 

 continuous ring of coral and a separating channel of water ; but the 

 conditions as they are presented are not those of true atolls. The 

 form is that of almost any bank that rises either out of the water or 

 close to its surface — the tendency of water-action being to round off 

 the obstructions that may interpose themselves — and' the included 

 water is only a shallow pan, and not the distinctive lagoon of an 

 atoll. The depth of water over the reefs generally is inconsiderable, 

 from one and a half to perhaps six or seven feet, and some of the 

 reefs are almost laid dry in low-water. This was the condition of 

 the Gallega Reef when we finally left the harbor of Vera Cruz. 

 The actual " ring" of the reefs, where it exists at all, is thus neces- 

 sarily insignificant, and it is largely due to the mechanical action of 

 water ; in some parts it may arise from accelerated organic growth, 

 but on this point I could not satisfy my mind. Be this as it may, 

 the lagoon is certainly neither a lagoon of solution nor one of subsi- 

 dence. 



In the case of some of the reefs, as Gallega and Galleguilla — in- 

 deed, I am not sure if this is not true of most of the reefs — the 

 greatest development of coral growth seems to be on the lee- or shore- 

 side, or opposite to that which is generally supposed to receive the 

 greatest supply of organic particles. The brain-corals and madre- 

 pores are there developed in immense profusion, although barren 

 areas of sand here and there project themselves into the living 

 mass. The scarcity of animal life on these sand tongues or patches 

 is very remarkable ; for long reaches we saw absolutely nothing in 

 the shape of animal existence, while at other points there may have 

 been a few shells (Triton, 3Iurex) thinly scattered about. We 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



did not see a single starfish, nor were we more successful in uur 

 search after holothurians ; the latter animals are especially con- 

 spicuous on the corresponding sands of the liernnida Keefs. Far 

 otherwise was it among the growing heads of coral, although even 

 here the luxuriance of the Bermudas was wanting. The Diiulemn 

 setosa among sea-urchins was very plentiful, and we observed a num- 

 ber of large annelids, besides mollusks of various kinds. But the 

 bristling forest of millepores and sea-fans (gorgonians) was want- 

 ing, and with them the host of brilliantly colored foruis which live 

 in association. 



The water separating the reef-patches is of moderate (^le})th, but 

 at many points it descends below the 20-fathom line, or beyond 

 what is generally considered to mark the zone of living-reef struct- 

 nres. Thus, for most of the distance between the Isla Verde and Blan- 

 quilla (a little more than a mile and a half) the depth exceeds 100 

 feet, and at several places it varies from 120 to 130 feet; and 

 much the same depth is found between Blanquilla and Galleguilla 

 (one mile) and between the Isla Verde and the Islote de Pajaros (some- 

 Avliat over a mile). We frequently sounded in these greater depths, 

 and nowhere obtained positive indications of a coral growth ; the 

 greased lead invariably brought up sand particles, but no impres- 

 sions of either dead or living corals. I could not say positively, 

 however, that living coi'als may not be found in these deeper parts, 

 as our "grease" was perhaps a little too soft to retain distinct im- 

 pressions; but it is certain that wherever our sight penetrated the 

 perfectly crystal waters to a depth exceeding 80-35 feet it fell 

 on barren sand ; and I am not sure that we anywhere could see 

 living coral even at this depth. Usually the barren sands bounded 

 the reef-zone at a depth lying between 15 and 25 feet. 



The oceanic slope of the reefs is in most part a very moderate one, 

 but there are places where it is as much as 1 in 5 or even 1 in 4 

 (12-14 degrees). Of course, this is small in comparison with that 

 which is found in the case of many true atolls. Off the western 

 point of the Islote de Pajaros we obtained 75 feet at a distance of 

 little more than 200 feet from the breaking crest. As regards the 

 permanence in depth of the Avater-ways between the reefs it may 

 be said that many of our soundings corresponded absolutely with 

 the soundings registered in the Ponzoni map of 1807 (181G). This 

 correspondence was especially noticeable in the water-ways between 

 the Islote de Pajaros and the Isla Verde and between the latter and 




312 I'UocKKDixfis or thl; acadkmv of [1S<)(). 



Bluii(|uilla. On the other hand, immediately west of the Islote de 

 Pajaros, and at various points southeast and south of Gallega, there 

 seems to have been a considerable amount of shoaling, some places 

 to the extent of 8 or 10 feet, or more, but in most parts I suspect 

 that this shoaling is due almost wholly to the displacement of shift- 

 ing sands, and not to coral encroachment. Apart from the testimony 

 of the depth of water which is still found over these shallows, this 

 condition seems to be largely indicated by the circumstance that 

 at a few points a greater depth was found than appears on the map, 

 ])robably the result of uncovering. It is not improbable that at a 

 few places south of the Gallega Reef, or between the reef and the 

 mainland, the shallowing that we observed is actually due to coral 

 up-growth ; at any rate, the discrepancy in the depths is here very 

 marked, as much as 12-15 feet (depth of water 21-27 feet), and the 

 waters cover a rich growth of brain-coral (Mceandrina, Diploria). 

 It is hardly possible that a layer of corals approaching so closely to 

 the surface should have completely escaped the early hydrographers, 

 or that these investigators could have been in error in their deter- 

 minations of the then existing depths. But then if neither prop- 

 osition is tenable, and we are compelled to fall back upon the as- 

 sumption of simple coral up-growth — which to me appears every 

 way plausible — we must assume a rate of growth much more rapid 

 than has until recently been allowed these lowly organisms. A 

 number of instances are, however, on record where individual spec- 

 imens of il/ceanc?rma are known to have increased in height from 

 a half-inch to an inch per annum, and of Madrepora where the in- 

 crease for the same period has been three inches.' An average 

 growth of an inch and a half per year would add in a period of 

 ninety years eleven feet. 



The reefs which have been described in the preceding pages 

 manifestly belong to that group which Darwin recognized as being 



1 Dana " Corals and Coral Islands," 2d ed., 1890, pp. 123-lii7 (quoting 

 Pourtal^s, Hunt, Verrill, etc.). On the other hand, the observations of Mr. H. T. 

 Woodman (communicated to Prof. Dana under date of Jan. 25th, 1890 — Op. cit., 

 appendix, pp. 418-419), conducted over a period of fourteen years, would seem 

 to indicate a very much slower growth. During the above-mentioned period the 

 following upward growths (among others) were registered : Orbicella annularis, 

 one and a quarter inches ; Diploria cerebriformis, nearly three-fourths of an inch ; 

 MtEandrina sinuosa, an inch and a quarter; and M(j:andrina labyrinthica, an inch 

 and seven-eighths. Specimens of Madrepora cervicornis, however, seem to have 

 encroached upon the channel under observation to an extent of 6-8 or even 10 feet. 




1890.] NATTKAI. SCIIONCKS OK PIIII.A DKI.I'IIIA. 813 



built upon f*hoals or beds of" sediment " lying a little beneath the 

 .surface, ready to serve as the l)asis for the attachment of coral " 

 ("Structure and Di-stribution of Coral Reefs," 1842, p. 58), a class 

 of structures which the opponents of the subsidence theory of reef- 

 formations fail to recognize as being in consonance with the Darwin- 

 ian hypothesis. They are, according to a strict classification, neither 

 encircling, barrier, nor fringing reefs, and as a fourth class might, 

 perhaps, with advantage be grouped as "patch" reefs. They belong 

 to the same category as the Florida reefs and banks, whose forma- 

 tion has been largely api)ealed to as evidence against the Darwinian 

 hypothesis of subsidence. But neither the Florida reefs nor the reefs 

 of Vera Cruz give any evidence either in favor of or against great 

 subsidence, since they are mere shallow-water formations, and, so far 

 as direct evidence goes, they represent only surface deposits. Yet 

 it is by no means either impossible or improbable that some of them 

 are actually placed on subsided areas, while it is all but j)ositive 

 that others have been brought to their present positions through 

 elevation. Certain it is that movements of elevation have taken 

 ])lace in the Floridian region during a very recent geological period, 

 and it is at least probable that movements in a contrary direction 

 w^ere not wanting at about the same, or a somewhat earlier, period, 

 and again later. ^ In the case of the Vera Cruz reefs we have more 



1 I have discus^ed these points in my report on the geology of the peninsula 

 of Florida (" Explorations on the West Coast of Florida and in the Okeechobee 

 Wilderness" — Trans. Wagner Free Institute of Science, Phil., 1887 — pp. 15, 26 

 -33, 64b), ai;d again in my observations on the coral reefs of the Bermudas 

 (" The Bermuda Islands. A Contribution to the Physical History and Zoology 

 of the .Somers Archipelago," 18811 — pp. 61, 73, 227). Alexander Agassiz well 

 recognizes the nature of the ' patch" reefs, and the possibilities of their formation 

 (following Darwin) without the necessity of either elevation or subsidence (" The 

 . Tortugas and Florida Reefs. " Memoirs Amcr. Acad. Arts and Sciences, 

 XI, part. II, 1885, pp. 118-1!>). But I fail to see the evidence in sup- 

 port of the statement that " on the Yucatan, as on the Florida Bank, the conditions 

 favorable for coral reef growth have been produced, not by the uplifting of the 

 continent, but by the gradual rising of the bank itself into suitable depths in con- 

 sequence of the accumulation of animal debris upon it" {^loc. fit); or for the 

 further statement that " there is practically no evidence that the Florida reef, or 

 any part of the southern peninsula of Florida which has been formed by corals, 

 owes its existence to the effect of elevation " (" Three Cruises of the Blake," I, p. 

 (>1, 1888). In my work on the Bermuda Islands, above referred to, I have con- 

 sidered these points, and attempted to show that the actual geological evidence 

 that we possess in the premises tends largely, I might say, almost wholly, to a 

 conclusion opposite to that which was reached by Mr. Agassiz. Prof. Shaler, in a 




314 rR()CKKI)IXG8 OF THK ACADEMY OF [1890. 



definite data rei^ardiiig the condition of the surface upon which 

 those structures are reared. The position San Juan de Uh'ia, on 

 the Gallega Reef, is evidence that there have been no changes of 

 level of any consequence for at least 800 years, or since the year 

 (1582) when the construction of the fort was first begun ; the recent 

 development of the reefs has been in a stable area. 



Manifestly, in a region of stability there could have been no 

 " atolls of subsidence" formed, and we find no I'eefs that can even 

 remotely be associated Avith the atoll structure. The facts thus far 

 neither favor nor oppose the Darwinian theory of coral formations, 

 but they are fully in consonance with it ; and, so far as I see, they 

 neither favor nor absolutely disprove the substitute theory which 

 has been advanced by Mr. Murray and his followers. It is, how- 

 ever, a significant (if perhaps not remarkable) circumstance that 

 with peripheral acceleration (in growth ) and internal solution — the 

 two determining conditions of atoll formation of most of the adher- 

 ents of the new school — we should still fail to find in a region of 

 stability, atoll-reefs. It is true that, with the very slow rate of solu- 

 tion which has been assumed to be possible, a well or lagoon of any 

 depth could barely be formed in a period of three hundred years ; 



somewhat singular paper on " The Topography of Florida" — singular for reason 

 of its failing to take account of the geological work done in the State prior to his 

 own researches — supplements my proof of the geologically recent uplift of the 

 southern portion of the Floridian peninsula with testimony bearing directly upon 

 the reefs themselves : thus the reef of Biscayne Bay " gives proof of a recent eleva- 

 tion of the shore to the height of about twenty-five feet " (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., 

 XVI, 1890, p. 143). This statement is, of course, directly antagonistic to the posi- 

 tion held by Mr. Agassiz. In my description of the rocks of Sarasota Bay, west 

 coast of Florida (Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Science, 1, 1887, p. 15), I state that 

 it is " more than probable that this portion of the coast has quite recently been 

 undergoing subsidence" ; Prof Shaler {Op. cit., p. 148) corroborates this position 

 by the statement : " There is a good deal of evidence to the effect that the whole 

 peninsula of Florida has undergone a subsidence often or twenty feet in altitude 

 since the last period of elevation." 



With direct evidence thus in favor of both elevation and subsidence of the Flor- 

 idian region during the existing period of coral-growth, nothing remains of the as- 

 sumption that the formation of the Florida Reefs is in any way opposed to the 

 Darwinian theory of reef structure, for it absolutely nullifies the three leading 

 propositions that are embodied in that assumption : 1. That there has been no sub- 

 sidence in the coral makmg tract ; 2, that there has been no elevation in the same 

 region; and 3, that great banks, organically constructed, have been built up with- 

 out assisting movements of the crust. The same argument applies to the reefs of 

 the Yucatan bank. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'HILADELi'lI JA. 315 



the rate ot'i'o inch per anuuiii, which hin' been assumed by Irvine,' 

 would Yield in this^ period of time a depth of water no greater than 

 actually exists on some of the reefs to-day, about two or three feet.'- 

 But theu it should not be forgotten that the three centuries repre.sent 

 merely the least time for which we have a record of the completion of 

 a single reef; the identical condition of stability may have existed 

 for centuries before, and certainly a long period was consumed in 

 the growth of the reef before it reached the surface. Surely some 

 decided evidence of solvent action, in the form of a true basin-struc- 

 ture, might have been expected in this time ; and the more if we 

 further take into account peripheral acceleration. But such 

 evidence is clearly wanting. So little, however, is as yet known 

 regarding the amount and capabilities of solution that, perhaps, too 

 much stress should not be laid upon this negative evidence — espec- 

 ially, as we seem to be dealing with a somewhat mysterious force, 

 whose woi'kings are, at least to me, a little inscrutable. The solvent 

 " power" that permits to build up and then, apparently without 

 cause, suddenly reverses and begins to remove, is possessed of a 



Mr. Agassiz, in a note to Prof. Shaler's paper, seems to think that tlie Florida 

 Everglades may be largely of a reef formation, or to be due to sedimental accu- 

 mulation behind and between reefs. This is a revival in part of the old reef-theory 

 of growth of the Floridian peninsula, which recent researches have abundantly 

 disproved. Mr. Agassiz recognized that this theory is no longer tenable, but he 

 manifestly lays loo much stress upon the probability of a like structure holding 

 good for that part of the peninsula which lies south of the " northern extremity,"' 

 or even for that which is mainly comprised within the region of the Everglades 

 itself. My own researches, which have since been supplemented by those of Dr. 

 Dall, show that heavy fossiliferous deposits of Pliocene age are found nearly half 

 across the peninsula on the Caloosahatchie, and their position there makes it prac- 

 tically certain that they largely underlie the region of the Everglades. 1 have so 

 stated it in my report (p. 6.5) : " The evidence, further, is very strong that beyond 

 Lake Okeechobee and the Caloosahatchie the structure of the State is for the mo^-t 

 part identical with that above it, and the observed facts clearly prove that this cor- 

 respondence must exist over at least a considerable portion of the unexplored re- 

 gion of the Everglades." Mr. Agas-;iz ha-; apparently not read my report (beyond 

 possibly the opening sentence), otherwise he could hardly have stnted (p. lo7l that 

 my "explorations were limited to the portions of the west coast of Florida included 

 between Cedar Keys and Punta Rassa, and did not touch the Everglade district."' 



1 Nature, March 1.5, 1888; this point is discussed in my " Bermuda Islands," 

 pp. 203-205, 1889. 



- It has already been remarked that the central reef-depression is in most 

 cases merely a negative one, a rim having been formed through up-throws by the 

 beating waters. 




olG rKOCEKDrxcits ok the academy of [1890. 



capacity for work which requires special examination. Individu- 

 ally, I must confess, I have thus far failed to find a fragment of a 

 fact which supports the solution theory of lagoon-formation ; and 

 so long as the construction of the reef-lagoon remains unexplained, 

 so long must all theories explaining the formation of atolls be con- 

 sidered defective. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCE« OK PHILADKI>PHIA. 317 



ECHINODEKMS FROM THE NORTHERN COAST OF YUCATAN AND THE 

 HARBOR OF VERA CRUZ. 



KY J, E. IVE8. 



The Echinodermata which form the .■subject of this paper were 

 collected on the northern coast of Yucatan and at Vera Cruz, in 

 the spring of the present year, by an expedition from the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia to investigate the 

 natural history of Yucatan and Mexico. The writer, who was a 

 member of the expedition, is indebted to Professor Angelo Heilprin, 

 the Director, for the opportunity of working up this portion of the 

 collection. 



The results in this department are interesting. One new genus 

 and three new species are described in the following pages, a little 

 known species is figured for the first time, the synonymy of this 

 species and of some others has. been studied with jirofitable results, 

 and the majority of the species collected supply new localities 

 which form connecting points between the northern and southern 

 portions of the great West Indian, or eastern tropical American 

 littoral fauna. 



The northern coast of Yucatan possesses a sandy beach largely 

 made up of shell fragments. The water, off the coast, is very shal- 

 low, the 10 fathom line being 20 miles from the shore, and the 100 

 fathom line about 150 miles. Three" miles off" the shore, in the neigh- 

 borhood of Progreso, the bottom is of a sandy character, although a 

 few small corals were brought up in the dredge. Along the shore to 

 the westward of Progreso is a small Serpuloid reef. Large quantities 

 of sea-weed and sponges are thrown upon the beach and lie de- 

 composing in the sun. These and numerous water- worn specimens 

 of Orhicella annularis and a large Escharine species of Bryozoan, 

 with some specimens of Xiphogorgla anceps, indicate the exist- 

 ence of a region rich in animal and vegetable life not very far from 

 the shore. The following species were collected on this coast in the 

 neighborhood of Progreso and the Port of Silam : Holothuria Heil- 

 prini, Holothuria Silamensis, Holothuria nitida, Toxopneustes varie- 

 gatus, Echinaster Brasiliensis and Luiclia alternata. No Ophiurans 

 were found on the beach, or in the dredgings oft' the shore, although 

 careful search was made for them. 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The liarbor of Vera Cruz i.s an area of luxuriant coral growth, 

 madrepores and brain corals being especially abundant.' No holo- 

 thurians were collected here, but on the other hand two species of 

 (jphiurans were obtained. The forms from this locality are the fol- 

 lowing: Diddema sefosum, Echinometra subangularis, Mellita jicnta- 

 2)orns, Thyraster serpentarius, Astropeden articulatus, Ophiura ciii- 

 erea and Ophiothrix angulata. 



After the detailed account of the species collected which follows, 

 in which they are separated into the two regions from which they 

 were obtained, I have advanced some general considerations based 

 upon their geographical distribution. A chronological list of all the 

 important memoirs dealing with the Echinoderms of the West In- 

 dian region, has also been compiled which I believe will be of use 

 in the future study of this area. 



Yucatan. 



Holothuria Heilprini, n. s]>. PI. VIII, figs. 1-6. 



Body cylindrical, narrowed toward the anterior end. Specimen 

 very much contracted, probably to half the length of its extended 

 condition. Anus round. 



A few large wart-like prominences scattered over the dorsal 

 surface, each surmounted by a papilla containing a rudimentary 

 terminal plate and smooth rib-like rods with the ends enlarged and 

 perforated. Pedicels present upon the dorsal and ventral surfaces : 

 upon the dorsal surface they are evenly distributed and are slightly 

 smaller than those of the ventral surface. The ventral pedicels 

 are very numerous and closely approximated. In the specinien 

 collected there is no trace of a linear arrangement. 



The specimen obtained has ten tentacles, the most ventral of which 

 is much smaller than the rest. 



The body wall is very thick in the much contracted example. 



The calcareous ring is very similar to the figure of that of 

 Holothuria Floridana given by Selenka^ in his " Beitriige." 



There are two bundles of short madreporic canals attached to 

 the dorsal surface of the oesophagus on the right and left sides 

 respectively of the dorsal mesentery. In the specimen ubtained 

 there are twenty canals on the right side and nineteen on the left. 



^ See Professor Heilprin's Report upon " The Corals and Coral Reefs of the 

 Western Waters of the Gulf of Mexico " in this volume, p. 303. 

 2 Zeit. wiss. Zool. Bd. xvii, pi. xviii, fig. 47. 




1890.] NAJTHAL scii:x('i:s or piiiladi:i-1'hia. 819 



The distal ])ortions of the canals are enlarged, so as to form elon- 

 gated heads. Two of the canals on the left side are branched, 

 thus possessing two heads. 



A single long and slender Polian vesicle exists, which is more than 

 half the length of the animal, and terminates in a vesicular enlarge- 

 ment of consideral)le sizi'. 



Cuvei'ian organs are not present. 



In the walls of the dorsal pedicels are tables of the ordinary type 

 described below, and a few rosettes. Around the terminal disks 

 there are also tables which lack disks, the four rods bending inwards 

 and uniting at the point where they meet. The ventral pedicels oc- 

 casionally possess a few diskless tables around the edge of the ter- 

 minal disk similar to those of the dorsal pedicels, and their Avails 

 contain a few rosettes. The calcareous deposits of the body-wall 

 are ct)llected into heaps which give its surface a granulated appear- 

 ance. They consist j)rincipally of rosettes which occur in great 

 abundance. They are usually about 'Olo mm. in diameter. The 

 branches of the rosettes, in rare instances, coalesce to form irregular 

 })erforated plates. On the dorsal surface the accumulations of ros- 

 ettes are accompanied by a number of tables, which possess well de- 

 veloped disks and are of the Holothurla atra type, usually with a 

 hole at the base of each rod. Exceptionally the hole is absent or 

 it may be represented by two or three similar holes. The rods are 

 connected by a single cross-bar. Each of the rods is surmounted by 

 three prominent teeth, two horizontal and one vertical. The height 

 of the tables and the diameter of their disks is about "1 mm. The 

 tables are almost entirely absent from the accumulations of the ven- 

 tral surface. 



The color in alcohol, of the granulated portion of the body is a 

 dirty olive green ; the portions free from deposits are slate-color 

 with a purplish tinge; the sides of the pedicels grayish and their 

 disks straw-color; tentacles very light straw-color. 



Length of the much contracted specimen about 80 ram. 



Collected among the wet seaweed of the beach at the Port of 

 Silam. 



I have named this species after Professor Angelo Heilprin, the 

 Director and promoter of the expedition. 



This form is related to Holothuria atra of Jaegei'. The most 

 prominent difference is the arrangement of the calcareous deposits 

 into heaps in Holothuria Heilprinl, producing an appearance of 




320 PROCKEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890;. 



granulation over the surface of tlie body. The branches of the 

 rosettes also, in this species, very rarely coalesce to form plates, and 

 the wart-like prominences sparsely scattered over the dorsal surface 

 are also a distinguishing feature. True papillie are confined to 

 the summits of these prominences, and the remainder of the dorsal 

 surface is evenly covered with pedicels only slightly smaller than 

 those of the ventral surface. In the superficial appearance of granu- 

 lation it resembles Holothuria grisea of Selenka, but the deposits 

 of this species are collected into circles, and not heaps. It also 

 differs from Holothuria grisea in the fact that the disks of the tables 

 have a hole at the base of each rod and are not provided \vith 

 spines, and that there are two well developed bundles of madreporic 

 canals, instead of a single free canal. 



Holothuria Silamensis, n. sp. PL VIII, ligp. 7-0. 



Body cylindrical, equally rounded at both ends, about three times 

 as long as broad. Anus round, not stellate. Surface smooth to the 

 touch. Dorsal and ventral surfiices possessing pedicels of small 

 size, more numerous upon the ventral than upon the dorsal surface, 

 but not crowded. The ventral pedicels show an imperfect arrange- 

 ment in three rows, of which the middle row is the widest. A 

 few papillse are scattered amongst the dorsal pedicels. 



The pedicels possess a well developed terminal disk. In two out 

 of many pedicels that I examined I found extremely rudimentary 

 tables around the edge of the disks. The tables are apparently of 

 the type which is found in its perfect form in Holothuria atra. 



In the one case there were two present and in the other, one. 

 These must be regarded as exceptional structures as I did not find 

 any trace of tables elsewhere in the specimen. Probably they are 

 rudimentary structures derived from an ancestor possessing tables. 

 The walls of the pedicels are free from deposits. The papillae 

 contain a rudimentary terminal disk and several smooth rib-like 

 rods with perforated ends, such as are characteristic of them. The 

 calcareous deposits of the body-wall are not numerous and consist 

 entirely of small, irregular, perforated plates, which are formed by 

 the coalescence of the branches of rosettes. They usually have one 

 diameter longer than the other; thelongdiameterbeingabout'OSmm, 

 and the short diameter, "02 mm. They occur in small heaps, but the 

 heaps ai'e not suflBciently large or numerous to produce the granu- 

 lated appearance, which is possessed by the previous species. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PIIII.ABELPIIIA. 821 



In the specimen obtained there are twenty tentacle.s of nearly 

 uniform size. 



The body wall i.s thick. 



The calcareous rinij is well d('velo])ed, but its conipoueut j^ieces 

 are not very coherent. 



There are numerous short madreporic canals, arranged in two 

 l)undles, one on either side of the dorsal mesentery above the 

 •esophagus, three on the left side and ten on the right. The distal 

 portion of each canal is enlarged, forming an elongated head as in 

 the preceding species. 



There is one long and slender Polian vesicle, more than half the 

 length of the animal, with two considerable vesicular enlargements, 

 one near its end, and the other near its middle. 



The specimen possesses a very small bundle of Cuverian organs. 



The color in alcohol is a dirty white mottled with dark gray. 

 The dark gray predominates on the anterior portion of the dorsal 

 region. The tentacles are a dirty white, the walls of the })edicels 

 and papilke light gray, and the disks of the })edicles straw-colored. 



Ivength of the specimen, 80 mm. 



Collected at the Port of Silam among the wet sea-weed of the 

 beach. 



This form is characterized by rosette-like plates, absence of tables, 

 two bundles of madreporic canals, non-stellate anus, absence of wart- 

 like prominences on the dorsal surface, general distribution of pedi- 

 cels and the very small number of papillae. The number of tenta- 

 cles, presence of Cuverian organs and character of its Polian vesi- 

 cle, are probably not important characters, on account of the want 

 of stability of structure of these organs. 



It falls into the section of the genus Holothuria defined by Theel 

 as " possessing more or less incomplete rosettes." Seven species are 

 included by him in this section, H. marmorata J'dger, H. Argus 

 Jiiger, H. Vitiensis Semper, H. tenuissima Semper, H. KoeUikeri 

 Semper, H. clemens Ludwig and H. similis Semper. He thinks it 

 probable, however, that they represent one or more species capable 

 of great variation.. They have hitherto only been reported from the 

 tropical Indo-Pacific region. 



Holothuria Silamensis differs from all of them in the possession of 

 two well-developed bundles of madreporic canals, instead of a single 

 canal. It can also be distinguished from H. marmorata, H. Argus 

 and H. Vitiensis, by the circular instead of stellate anus ; from H. 



22 




o22 I'UOCi;KDIN(i.S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Koellikeri and //. teiiuissima, by an nnequal instead of an equal dis- 

 tribution of papilhie over the surface of the body, and from H. de- 

 mens by the absence of the fifteen small papilke which surround the 

 anus of the latter species. 



These distuictions are given for the sake of convenience. Many 

 minor ones exist, but the difficulty, even with the characters given 

 above, is toestimatetheir real value. It is possible that a larger amount 

 of material may in the future enable us to unite these forms as varie- 

 ties of one or a few species. The existence of the three rudimentary 

 tables, j^reviously mentioned, even suggests a relationship to Holo- 

 thvria afra and its allies. 



This species I have named after the Port of Silam where it was 

 collected. 



Holothuria nitida, n. sji. I'l. Vril. figs. 10-15. 



Body cylindrical. Specimen collected, in a moderately extended 

 condition, four times as long as broad, slightly acuminate at both 

 ends. Surface of the body smooth. Pedicels and papilla on the 

 dorsal surfoce and pedicels alone on the ventral surface. 



Dorsal pedicels not very numerous, smaller than the ventral. 

 Containing well developed tables, of the type found in Holothuria 

 atra, around the edge of the terminal disks, and also rosettes. 

 Tables about "1 mm. in height, and their disks about "09 mm. 

 in diameter. A very few imperfect tables (see PI. VIII, fig. 

 11.) also occur around the edge of the disks. Rosettes usually with 

 a longer and shorter diameter, the former being on an average 

 •03 mm. and the latter '02 mm. Some very much larger rosettes of 

 abnormal form are found in the pedicels, PI. VIII, fig. 15. The 

 ventral pedicels lack deposits in their walls but possess well devel- 

 oped terminal disks. They are arranged in three imperfect longi- 

 tudinal rows, the two outer having a width of three or four ped- 

 icels, and the inner of four or five. The papillae are arranged in a 

 row of about seven in number along the lower edge of the dorsal 

 surface, on either side, and in two longitudinal rows upon the in- 

 tervening portion. They contain many rib-like rods with branched 

 or perforated extremities. Tables and rosettes also are sometimes 

 present. The deposits of the body-wall are few and consist entirely 

 of rosettes which usually occur in very small and scattered groups. 

 The branches of the rosettes occasionally coalesce, forming imper- 

 fect perforated plates. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



There are twenty tentacles of" nearly equal size. 



The body-wall is moderately thick. 



The calcareous ring is well developed and is of the shape given 

 in PI. VIII, fig. 13. 



There is a bundle of five madreporic canals on the right side of 

 the dorsal mesentery and a single canal on the left side. The canals 

 are short and have an elongated head. 



A single, long and slender Polian vesicle is present, possessing a 

 vesicular enlargement at its distal end. 



A very small bundle of Cuverian organs exists. 



The sexual glands are divided. 



The color of the dorsal surface, in alcohol, is indigo-black relieved 

 by a number of large white spots arranged on either side along its 

 edge, and also forming irregular longitudinal rows upon the inter- 

 vening area. From the centres of these white spots arise the })apilhe 

 described above. The ventral surface is dirty white, speckled with 

 indigo. Each of the interambulacral areas of the ventral surface 

 is marked by a dark line. The pedicels and papillae have a yellow- 

 ish tint. The tentacles are of a dirty white color. 



Length 35 mm. 



A single specimen was collected among the wet sea-weed washed 

 up on the beach at the Port of Silam. 



It is closely allied to Holothuria atra of Jiiger, but is distinguished 

 by the presence of pedicels upon the dorsal surface, by the absence of 

 tables in the integument of the jjody-wall and by the well-defined 

 color pattern. 



Toxopneustes variegatus, Lamk. Auiiu. Sans. Ver., 1S16, p. 48. 



A. Agassiz, Mem. Mus. Corup. Zool., Vol. III. 1872-LS74, pp. ItiS, 289, 500. PI. II, 

 iva, vi, vii, xxv. 



Three specimens were dredged in shallow water on a sandy bottom 

 off Progreso and three specimens were collected on the beach. They 

 are evidently not very abundant in this locality. None were found 

 upon the beach at Silam. 



In the specimens obtained the spines are very short and those of 

 the al)actinal surface, rather slender and pointed. 



Prof. Alexander Agassiz in the Revision of the Echini mentions 

 the presence of two specimens of this species in the Museum of the 

 Ecole des Mines, from Yucatan. The species was also dredged on 

 the Yucatan Bank, bv the " Blake." 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



This species is found throughout the West Indian region, extend- 

 ing northwards to Beaufort, N. C. and southwards to Armacao, Bra- 

 zil. Professor Agassiz also records it from Cape Dos Bahias, Argen- 

 tine Republic. 



Echinaster Brasiliensis, MUller and Trofchel. System der Asteiiden 1S42, ji. 22, 

 Tab. l,fig. 4. (?) 



Perrier, Arch. de. Zool. Exp. Vol. IV, 1875, p. ?>(37. 

 Lutkcn, Vidensk. Meddel. 1859, p. 93. 

 Rathbun, Trans. Conn. Acad. Vol. V, 1879, p. 148. 

 Ludwig, Mem. Cour. Acad. Roy. Belg. T. XLIV, 1882. No. 5, p. 7. 



Two starfishes obtained upon the beach at Progreso have been 

 referred to this species. The larger specimen is about 80 mm. in 

 diameter. The length of the radius of the disk, to that of the arm, 

 is about as one to five. The arms are cylindrical and tapering. 

 The spines of the surface of the arms and disk are small, not longer 

 than the ambulacral spines, and form nine irregular rows upon the 

 surface of the arms. There are about twenty five spines in a row from 

 the middle of the disk to the tip of the arm. The ambulacral spines are 

 arranged in three more or less perfect rows. The two outer rows 

 are of equal size and the spines are opposite to one another ; the 

 spines of the innermost row are much smaller and alternate with the 

 larger spines. 



The smaller specimen is about 70 mm. in diameter and has only 

 seven imperfect rows of spines, with about 20 spines in a row. 



The specimens when alive were of a rust-red color, darker above 

 than beneath. In alcohol they have become a light dirty brown. 



I have figured the larger of the two specimens collected, PI. VIII, 

 figs. 16-18. 



The specimens found in Yucatan, agree with the description of 

 the forms referred by Mr. Rathbun to this species from Rio Formoso, 

 Pernambuco, Brazil. 



The synonymy of Echmaster Brasiliensis and of the other species 

 of Echinaster inhabiting the western shores of the tropical Atlantic 

 is in a very unsatisfactory condition. Miiller and Troschel give 

 Oihilia multispina of Gray ^ as a synonym of this species, but it 

 appears to me very doubtful if this form is the same. 



The locality of the specimen described by Gray is unknown. His 

 description runs thus : " Rays short, depressed, broad, rather more 



1 Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., Vol. VI, 1840, p. 282. 




1890.] NATUKAL SCIKNOES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 325 



than twice as long as the width of the body, bhiiit at the end, with 

 eleven rows of acute distant spines." According to Miiller and 

 Troschel their sj)ecies is distinguished by its small and numerous 

 spines. The authors who have described the form subsequently, viz 

 Liitken, Dujardin and Hupe, and Rathbun have characterized the 

 species principally by this character, and have associated with it 

 that of slender arms. 



Miiller and Troschel also refer to Seba's i figux'e of Pentadacfylos- 

 aster .tpinosus regularis virginianus as an illustration of their species. 

 Not only, however, is this figure entirely out of accord with their de- 

 scription but it is almost identical with the figure of Pentadactylos- 

 aster spinosns regidaris of Linck, '■' which forms their type of 

 Echinaster spinosus, the species described immediately before Echin- 

 aster Bra-'iiliensis. Seba's specimen came from Virginia and he dis- 

 tinctly identified his figures with Linck's previous figure. Both 

 figures are good representations of Echinaster spi7iosus, with large 

 distant spines, and cannot by any stretch of the imagination be con- 

 sidered as identical with Echinaster Brasiliensis. 



The figure of this species given by Miiller and Troschel does not 

 at all agree with their description of it, but rather with that of their 

 Echinaster spinosus. It is possible that the figure may have been 

 wrongly named. 



If the views expressed above are correct it is very doubtful whether 

 Echinaster Brasiliensis has any synonyms. 



This species is distributed throughout the West Indies and extends 

 northwards to the Florida channel and southwards to Rio Janeiro. 



Florida channel (A. Agassiz). Kingston, Jamaica ; Puerto Cabello; 

 Rio Janeiro (Liitken). Brazil (M. & T.). Rio Formoso, Brazil 

 (Rathbun). Cap Vert, Brazil, (Ludwig). Rio Janeiro, (Perrier.). 



The following list represents the species of Echinaster^ found in 

 waters of the Western Tropical Atlantic, 



Echinaster spinosus, Retzius. Dissert. Sist. Spec. Cog. Asteriarum, 1805, p. 18. 

 Asterids echiiiophora, Lamarck, Hist. Nat. Aniin. Sans. Vert. t. ii, p. 560. 

 Echinaster senilis, Say. J«ur. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1st Ser., Vol. 5, p. 143. 



The two specimens referred to by Say in his description of Echi- 

 naster sentus, which were presented by Lieut. Gandtt, are preserved 

 1 Thesauri Vol. iii, p. 13, Tab. 7, Fig. 4. 



- De Stellis Mariiiis, Tab. iv, Fig. 7. 



'^Echinaster serpcntariiis (Val.) Miiller and Troschel, has been placed by the 

 author in a separate genus, see below. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE3IY OF [1890. 



in the collection of the Academy, and after comparison of them with 

 examples of Ech'master sjnnoms from New Providence, Bahamas, 

 also in the collection of the Academy, I am unable to find any well 

 marked characters separating them from the latter species. 

 AVest Indies; Brazil to Virginia. 



Echinaster crassispina, Venill. Trans. Conu. Aca<l. Art* and Sci., Vol, 1, ji. 368, 

 pi. iv, fig. 7. 



This species may prove to be a variety of the preceding species. 

 Bahia, Brazil. 



Echinaster Brasiliensis, ^Miiller and Troselicl. System der Astcriden, ji. 22. (Taf. 

 l.flg. 11 ?.) 



AVest Indies ; Florida Channel to Rio Janeiro. 

 Echinaster spinulosus, Verrill. Proc. Eost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XII, p. 3S6. 

 AVest Coast of Florida. 



Echinaster modestus, Perrier. Nouv. Archives Mus. Hist. Nat. t. VI, p. 200. PI. Ill, 

 fig. 7. 

 Below 100 fathoms, AVest Indies. 



Luidia alternata, Say. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila. ( 1 ) Vol. V, 1S25. p. 144. 

 Lutken, Vidensk. Meddel., 1859, p. 42. 

 Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exper., 1876, T. V. p. 254. 



Ludwig, Mem. Cour. Acad. Royal, Belg., 1S82, T. XLIV, No. 5, p. 9. 

 Sladen, " Challenger " Report on the Asteroidea, 1889, p. 250. 

 Luidia granulosa, Perrier, Ann. Sei. Nat., (5) t. .xii, p. 301, PI. II, fig. IS. 

 Luidia variegata, Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exper., 1876, t. v. p. 257. 



A single specimen of this species was collected off Progreso at a 

 depth of about 20 feet. The living animal was straw-colored, with 

 black markings forming three or four irregular, transverse bands 

 upon the dorsal surface of the arms : black markings absent from 

 the ventral surface : spines more or less greenish : ends of the ambu- 

 lacral feet orange red. The same coloration is preserved in the alco- 

 holic specimen, with the exception of the loss of the greenish color 

 of the spines, and of the orange color of the ends of the feet. 



The distinctive characters of this species are the three well-marked 

 rows of paxilljB on either side of the arms, and the existence of two 

 or four imperfect rows of spines upon the dorsal surface of the arms, 

 one or two rows on each side. In the specimen collected, there are 

 traces of three rows of spines on either side of the arm, at its base. 



A few three valved pedicellarise exist in our specimen between the 

 adambulacral and the ventral rows of spines. They clo.sely resemble 

 Perrier's figures of those of Luidia granulosa. 




1890.] NATURAL 8CrKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



Kadius of the, disk 10 mm., leiiirtli of an arm from center of disk, 

 70 nun. 



This species is found in the West Indies, and extends nortlnvards 

 to Florida, and southwards to Bahia, Brazil. 



Florida (Say). Florida Channel, 40 fnis. (Agassiz). Antilles; 

 Tortugas; He Breton, Mississippi K. ; (30 ni. N. He Jolbos, 14 fms, ; 

 Montserrat, 88 fms. (Perrier). St. Thomas (Liitken). Brazil (Lud- 

 wig). Bahia, 7-20 fms. (Sladen). 



The following species of Laidia are found in the AVest Indian 

 region. 



Luidia clathrata, fi;\y. Jour. Acnil. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1) NUl. \', \i. 1 IL'. 

 A. Agas.^iz, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., V, p. IIT, pi. xx. 



West Indies; Beaufort, N. C. to Rio Janeiro. 



Luidia Senegalensis, Lam. Anim. San;* Vert. t. iii, p. 2.55. 

 IVrrier, Arch. Zool. Exp., Vol. V, p. 262. 



Luidia Marcgravii, Lutken. Vidensk. Meddel. L'^59. p. 43. 



West Indies, southward to Rio Formosa, Brazil. Also upon the 

 West Coast of Africa (Senegal). 



Luidia elegans, Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exper., t. v, p. 256. 



Florida straits (101 feet), Barbadoes (200 fathoms.) 

 Luidia convexiuscula, Perrier, Nouv. Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat. (2), T. VI. ]>. 26s. 



Lesser Antilles, and off' S. W. of Florida. (56-208 fathoms. j 

 Luidia alternata, Say, 



We.st Indies ; Florida to Bahia, Brazil. 

 Luidia Barbadensis, Perrier, op. cit., p. 267. 



Barbadoes and off*S. W. of Florida. (40-209 fathoms.) 



This species may be a long armed variety of Luidia alternata. 



A complete list of the literature of these species Avill be found in 

 Ludwig's List of Brazilian Echinoderms, Perrier's " Stellerides des 

 Dragages du Blake," and Sladen's Monograph of the "Challenger" 

 Asteroidea. 



Vera Cruz. 



Diadema setosum, Gray, Ann. Phi!., 1825, p. 4. 



A. Agassiz, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. Ill, 1S72-1S74. pp. 10:!, 274, 408.. Pis. lib, 

 lie. IVa, VI, Via, XXIV, XXVII. XXVIII. 



Very abundant among the reefs of the harbor of Vera Cruz. 

 Found upon the coral sand in shallow water or in rock and coral 

 recesses. Especially numerous in the shallows off" the Gallega reef. 




328 ruocEEDixus of thk acadkmy of [1890. 



Tlii-s species has uot before been recorded from the Gulf of Mexico. 

 It is found throughout the West Indies and extends northward to 

 Cape Fh)rida and southward to Fernando de Noronha. It is also 

 found throughout the whole tropical region of the globe witli the 

 exception of the West Coast of America. 



Echinometra subangularis, Leske, 1778. Kl. Add. 



A. Agassi'/,, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. Ill, 1872-1874, pp. 116, 2S:'., 4:U, Pis. Xa, 

 XXVI. 



Sv6n Tjovi'h, Bihaiij;- Kongl. Svensk. Vetensk. Akad. Ilandl. Vol. I?,, IV, 18S8, 



p. n:^. 



A large series of specimens of this species were collected at Vera 

 Cruz. They were f )und in great quantities in the shallows lying 

 to the northwest of the town, es})ecially upon the rock and serpuloid 

 reef known as the Caleta. Tliey are characterized by a somewhat 

 flattened and circular test. The spines show a great range of 

 variation in their coloring. They are of various shades of reddish- 

 brown, purple and olive. Some specimens are of very light tints 

 and others are almost black. The spines are often tipped with dif- 

 ferent colors. 



This species is found throughout the West Indies, and as far 

 northward as Charleston, S. C. and southward as Desterro, Brazil. 

 It is also found upon the West coast of Africa, and at Ascension 

 Island. 



Mellita pentapora, Gmelin, 1788, Liun. Syst. Nat. 3188. 



Afel/ifa testudinata, Klein,i 1734, Nat. Disp. Eeh., p. 30, PI. XXI, fig. C. D. 



A. Agassiz. Mem. Miis. Comp. Zool., Vol. Ill, ])p. 141, 322, 538, Pis. XI, XI la. 

 Xllc. 



This form is very abundant in some places upon the beach at 

 Vera Cruz. 



The specimens collected are considerably shorter in their antero- 

 posterior diameters than the typical forms of this species. Both Klein 

 and Louis Agassiz^ based their description of Mellita testudinata 

 npon specimens received from Vera Cruz, and it is an interesting 

 fact that the figures given by each of these authors illustrate this 

 peculiarity. Evidently it represents, not an individual variation, 



1 As Klein's names are not admissible under the British and American As- 

 sociation rules, I have adopted the first post-Linnasan binomial, viz, Echinus 

 pentaporus of Gmelin. 



2 Monographic d' Echinodermes. Des Scutelles, 1841, p. 40, Tab. 4a, figs. 

 7-10. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCES OF l'HILADKI>l'ir[A. o29 



but a local variety. The typical form is seen in the figure sjiven 

 by Professor Alexander Agassiz in his Revision of the Echini. 



This species is found in the West Indies, extending northward as 

 far as Cape Hatteras, and southward to Itabapuana, (100 m. N. E. 

 Rio Janeiro) Brazil. 



Professor Verrill in his Report u])on the Invertebrata of Vineyard 

 Sound says that the specimens found north of Cape Hatteras are 

 rare and dead. 



Thyraster serpentarius, Mullor unJ Troschel. 



Kchinaster serpeiitarius (Val.) Muller and Troschel, .System iler Asteriilen, |i. 24. 

 Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exper., t. iv, p. 370. 



A single specimen of this interesting form was collected at Vera 

 Cruz. It corresponds well with Miiller and Troschel's description. 

 'They described their species from specimens in the Paris Museum, 

 also obtained from Vera Cruz. The specimen collected by the ex- 

 pedition is superficially characterized by the numerous very small, 

 short, blunt spines forming irregular longitudinal and transverse 

 rows upon its dorsal surface, and by the peculiar arrangement of the 

 arabulacral spines. There are four of these spines arranged in a 

 row upon the aboral edge of each adambulacral plate. The inner- 

 most spine is the smallest and bears at its base a rudimentary spine- 

 let. Each })late of the .series of ventral plates adjoining the adam- 

 bulacral plates has three or four spines upon its aboral edge. Each 

 of the lateral plates also has a row of three spines upon its aboral 

 edge. The ambulacral, ventral and lateral spines of the arms are 

 verj' small, but not so small as tho.se of the dorsal surface. The 

 distal portions of all the spines have a rough appearance when 

 viewed with the naked eye. and when examined with the microscope 

 are seen to be thorny. The reticulated, skeleton is made up of a 

 number of qudrilateral plates, connected at their angles and arranged 

 in longitudinal rows. The abactinal spines are borne upon the edges 

 of these plates. 



The ventral and lateral plates are connected by an intermediate 

 ossicle. Intermediate ossicles occasionally occur between the other 

 plates of the skeleton. The central portion of the surface of these 

 j)lates is covered with minute tubercles which give them a gran- 

 ulated appearance. Figs. 19, 20 and 21, PI. VIII, represent dorsal, 

 ventral and lateral views of a portion of the skeleton of an arm, en- 

 larged about four diameters. 




330 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The regular arrangement of the j)hites produce? a superficial re- 

 semblance to an Asterias. 



The specimen collected has a diameter of about 50 mm. R:==5r. 



This species has as yet only been recorded from Vera Cruz. It 

 differs essentially from Echhutster as defined by Perrier,' Viguier' 

 and Sladen,'' and even as defined by Miiller and Troschel* them- 

 selves, for they say, " in der Haut ein zusammenhangendes netz 

 von Balken," and quadrilateral plates certainly cannot be termed 

 " Balken." The abactinal and lateral skeleton of an Ech'master 

 consists of small, narrow, imbricated plates forming an irregular 

 network. The skeleton in this species, on the contrary, consists 

 mainly of quadrilateral plates arranged in regular longitudinal 

 series. It is also distinguished by the minute tuberculation of the 

 plates, the arrangement of the spines along their edges and the 

 thorny character of the distal portion of these spines. I have, there- 

 fore, erected a new genus for this species, which may be character- 

 ized as follows: — 



THYRASTEK, n. gen. 



Ambulacral pedicles biserial. Actinostomial margin defined by 

 the adambulacral plates. Arms subcylindrical, skeleton composed 

 mainly of quadrilateral plates, united at their angles by imbrication 

 and arranged in longitudinal series. Plates minutely tuberculated, 

 supporting spines upon their edges. Distal portion of the spines 

 microscopically thorny. 



I hope at a future period to consider the question of the relation- 

 ship of Thyraster to the Echinasteridre in general. 



Astropecten articulatus, Say, Journ. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (1) Vol. 5. ji. 141. 

 Perrier, Arch. Zool. Exp., Vol. 5, 1876, p. 290. 



Astropecten duplicatus (xray, Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist. Vol. VI, 1841, p. IS], 

 Perrier, op. cit. p. 2V1. 



Astropecten Valenciennii, Muller and Troschel. System der Asteriden. p. ()8. 

 Astropecten variabilis, Lutken, Vidensk. Meddel., 1859, p. 59. 



A single specimen of this species was collected at Vera Cruz. 



It is found in the West Indies, extending northward to Beaufort, 

 N. C. and southward off the island of Jolbo on the northeast coast 

 of Yucatan. 



1 Arch. Zool. Exp. t. iv, pp. 283 and 289. 



2 Ibid. t. vii, p. 123. 



^ Challenger Report, pp. xxxviii and 53B. 

 * System der Asteriden, p. 22. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCRS OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



Beaufort, N. C. (Nachtrieb). South Carolina (Ives).' Georgia 

 and East Florida (Say). Tampa Bay, West Florida (Ives.) Flor- 

 ida Channel (L. Agassiz). Vera Cruz (Midler and Troschel). St. 

 Thomas, St. Croix (Liitken). St. Vincent (Gray). 60 ra. N. He 

 Jolbo ; Banc de Yucatan (Perrier.) 



There appears to be no important difference between Astropecten. 

 articulates of Say a,nd Astropecten Valeneiennii of Miiller and Tros- 

 chel. The only supposed difference between the two species was the 

 existence of two rows of spines upon the supero-lateral plates of the 

 latter, in distinction to one row in the former species. But upon ex- 

 amination this character proves to be very variable. PerrierMescribes 

 a specimen of Astropecten articulatiis in which the spines upon the 

 supero-marginal plates are entirely lacking, and an examination of 

 the specimens in the collection of this Academy has convinced me 

 that this character is subject to great variation. Both series of 

 spines may be developed along the whole length of the arm or one 

 or both may be more or less imperfectly developed, or according to 

 Professor Perrier they may be both entirely absent. Professor Per- 

 rier found upon examination of original specimens that Astropecten 

 Valeneiennii was identical with Astropecten duplicatus of Gray, and 

 Astropecten variabilis of Liitken. Miiller and Troschel described 

 their species from a specimen obtained at Vera Cruz. 



OpMura cinerea, Muller and Troschel, System iter Asteriden, p. 87. 



Lyman, Mem. Mus. Comp. ZooL, Vol. I, p. 27. 



Ophioderma Antillaruni, Lutken, Vidensk. Selsk. Skrift. Bd. V., 1859, ji. 100, 

 Tab. 1, fig. 1. 



A single specimen of this species was brought up with a coral at 

 Vera Cruz, from about eight feet of water. 



It is distributed throughout the West Indies, upon the Florida 

 reefs, and southward as far as the Abrolhos Islands, Brazil. 



Tortugas, Fla.; Key Biscayne, Fla. ; St. Thomas ; Jeremie, Hayti ; 

 south of Vera Cruz in the Gulf of Mexico; Aspinwall; Bahia, 

 Brazil, 7-20 fiths. (Lyman). St. Jan, 1 fath. ; St. Thomas, 1 foot 

 to 4 fiths. (Liitken). St. Barthelemy (Ljungnan). Fernando de 

 Noronha ; Parahyba do Norte ; Plataforma ; Mar Grande ; Bay of 

 Bahia ; Abrolhos Reefs (Rathbun). 



^ Catalogue of the Asteroidea and Ophiuroidea in the collection of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 1889. 

 p. 169. 



2 Arch. Zool. Exp. t. .5, 1876, p. 291. 




332 PROCKEDINUS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Ophiothrix angulata, Say, Jour. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila. (1) V, p. 1 1."). 



Lymau, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. I, p. 162, PI. 11, Figs 1-.3; " Clialienger '" 

 Report on the Ophiuroidea, 1882, p. 219. 



A yoiino; specimen was brought up on a coral from about eight 

 feet of water in the harbor of Vera Cruz. 



This species is found abundantly throughout the West Indies, and 

 extends northward to Beaufort N. C, and southward to Rio Janeiro. 



Beaufoil, N. C. (Nachtrieb). Fort Johnston, N. C. (Ayres). 

 Charleston S. C. (Say). Waccamaw, S. C; Key West, Fla. (Lyman). 

 Charlotte Harbor, Fla. ; Tortugas (Ayres). Off Bermudas, 32 faths. 

 (Lyman). Guadiana Bay, Cuba; Bahia Honda., Cuba; Jeremie, 

 Hayti ; St. Thomas (Lyman). St. Bartheleniy ; Tortola, (Ljung- 

 man). Sombrero, 54 faths. ; Barbadoes, 100 faths. (Lyman). Mugeres 

 Island, Yucatan ; Aspinwall ; Fernando Noronha, (Lyman). Para- 

 hyba do Norte ; Pernambuco ; Rio Formoso ; Plataforma ; Mar 

 Grande, Mapelle ; Bay of Bahia; Abrolhos Islands (Rathbuu). Off 

 Bahia, 7-20 faths. ; OfTCape Frio, Brazil, 35 faths. (Lyman). Rio de 

 Janeiro (Rathbun). 



Geographical distribution. 

 In indicating the geographical range of the species collected by 

 the Expedition, I have endeavored to confine the area of distribu- 

 tion, so that it should include only those localities in which the 

 species are constantly found in greater or lesser abundance; and I 

 have, as far as the data at my disposal would permit, avoided includ- 

 ing those localities in which only occasional or dead specimens occur. 

 A good illustration of this principle is the distribution of Mellita 

 pentapora. Dead specimens are found as far North as Vineyard 

 Sound, but living specimens according to Professor Verrill do not 

 occur north of Cape Hatteras, and I have therefore given Cape 

 Hatteras as the northern limit of distribution of this species. The 

 amount of collecting that has been done upon the shores of the 

 southern United States is quite small, and it is therefore difficult to 

 define with accuracy the limit of the northerly distribution of West 

 Indian Echinoderms. The same observation with respect to the 

 southern limit of distribution applies to the coast of Brazil, 

 although much valuable information has been acquired through the 

 collections made by Mr. John C. Branner, Professor Chas. Fred. 

 Hartt, and their associates and assistants. It is desirable that 

 thorough collections should be made on these coasts and also in the 

 West Indian islands, with the object of ascertaining accurately the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCE.S OF rillLADKLI'Iir A. o^O 



distribution of the littoral p]('hiiioderin« in the Western tropical 

 Atlantic region. 



A paper by Mr. H. F. Nachtrieb' upon the Echinodernis col- 

 lected at Beaufort, N. C. in connection with the Marine Labora- 

 tory of the John Hopkins University, throws some light upon the 

 question of the northern limit of the West Indian p]chinoderm shore 

 fauna. Of the three species of starfish collected, two belong to the 

 West Indian fauna and one to the northern ; of the Ophiurans the 

 three species are all West Indian ; of the sea-urchins three species 

 are West Indian and one northern. The Holothurians are uniden- 

 tified. Thus it is seen that at Beaufort, which is about 70 miles to the 

 southeast of Cape Hatteras, the Echinoderm fauna is distinctly 

 West Indian. 



Commander Bartlett'^ of the United States Coast and Geodetic 

 Survey, in connection with the work of the steamer " Blake" has come 

 to the conclusion that the Arctic or Labrador current does not ex- 

 tend south of Cape Hatteras, but at that point goes under the Gulf 

 Stream and to the eastward, being deflected that way by the form 

 of the Blake plateau. He also states that the Gulf Stream has for 

 its western bank the 100 fathom curve wdiich is on an average about 

 70 miles from the shore as far north as Cape Hatteras, and that the 

 water inside of the 100 fathom line to the shore, appears to be an 

 overflow of the stream as the temperature to five, ten and fifteen 

 fathoms is nearly as high as that found in the stream. North of 

 Cape Hatteras the Gulf Stream is deflected northeastwards and is 

 separated from the coast by the cold Labrador current. It will be 

 apparent from the above statements that Cape Hatteras marks 

 the northern limit of an area of temperature which may be regarded 

 as essentially that of the West Indian littoral region. 



The following list of species collected by the Exi)editioii will 

 readily show their distribution. 



Holothuria Heilprini. ^ 



Holothnria Sllamensis. ^ Port of Silam, northern coast of Yucatan. 



Holothuria nitida. ) 



Diadema setosum, West Indies, Cape Florida to Fernando de 

 Noronha. 



1 Notes on Echinoderms obtained at Beaufort, N. C, Johns Hopkins Uni- 

 versity. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, Vol. iv. p. 81. 



2 Report of the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey, 188l2, p. 37 and 

 " Three cruises of the Blake" by Alexander Agassiz p. 257, fig. 176. 




334 PROCIOEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Echinometra subangnlaris, West Indies, Charleston, S. C. to Des- 

 terro, Brazil. 



Toxopneustes variegatus, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to Armayiio, 

 Brazil. 



Mellita pejifapora, West Indies, Cape Hatteras to Itahapuana, 

 Brazil. 



Thyraster serpentarius, Vera Cruz. 



Echinaster Brasiliensis, West Indites, Florida Channel to Rio 

 Janeiro. 



Astropecten articulatns, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to off Jolho, 

 off the N. E. coast of Yucatan. 



Luidia alternata, West Indies, Florida to Bahia, Brazil. 



Ophiura cinerea, West Indies, Florida Reefs to Abrolhos Islands. 



Ophiothrix an.gulata, West Indies, Beaufort, N. C. to Rio Janeiro. 



It will be observed that with the exception of the Holothurians, 

 and Thyraster serpentarius, the Echinoderms obtained are all common 

 to the West Indies, and their method of distribution points to this 

 region as their center of propagation. Four of them have a longitu- 

 dinal range of about 4,000 miles, extending approximately from Cape 

 Hatteras in the north to Santa Catharina in the south. The others 

 have a more limited range, one extending from the Florida channel 

 to Rio Janeiro, two from Florida to Bahia, one from Florida to 

 Fernando de Noronha, and one is only known as yet from Vera 

 Cruz. A range is thus indicated, comprehending all the species 

 referred to, limited by Cape Hatteras in the north, and the is- 

 land of Santa Catharina, off the southern portion of Brazil, in the 

 south. These northern and southern limits represent points crossed 

 by the isotherms of 15° C. (60° Fahr.) in both hemispheres dur- 

 ing the coldest month of the year. South and north of these local- 

 ities respectively the surface temperature of the water never 

 falls below this degree of warmth. Of the five littoral species of 

 Echini, however, recorded by Professor Alexander Agassiz from Cape 

 Dos Bahias, Patagonia, in his Report upon the Echini of the Has- 

 sler Expedition, two belong to the We.st Indian fauna. The question 

 is thus raised of the true southern limit of the West Indian fiiuna. 



The localized habitat of the Holothurians collected is in striking 

 contrast to the broad ranges of the other species. This localization 

 is largely characteristic of the shallow water Holothuroidea. The 

 greater number of known species are confined either to one locality 

 or to a very circumscribed area. This fact was illustrated by the 




1890.] NATIRAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. .335 



Echiiiodeniis collected l)ytlie Academy's Expedition to the BeriDuda 

 Islands ill 1888 under the direction of Professor Aii.<,^elo Heilprin. 

 The species obtained with the exception of the Holothurians were 

 all convnion, widely distributed forms, but of the six species of the 

 latter four were new. The limited habitat of so many members of 

 tliis group is probably due to their poor locomotory qualifications. 



It is of some interest to make a comparison of the species collected 

 in Yucatan, at Vera Cruz and in Bermuda. The Holothurians 

 found at Yucatan, three species of the genus Holotliuria, are dis- 

 tinct from the three species of the same genus collected in Ber- 

 muda. Three other species representing the genera Semperia and 

 Stichopus were also obtained in Bermuda. Of the Sea Urchins, one 

 species is common to Yucatan and Bermuda, two species are com- 

 mon to Vera Cruz and Bermuda. Melllta pentaporus at Vera 

 Cruz is represented by Melllta sexforis in Bermuda : and two species 

 were found in Bermuda which were not obtained in Yucatan or at 

 Vera Cruz. The two species of starfishes from Yucatan, and the 

 two from Vera Cruz are generically different from the two species 

 obtained at Bermuda. The two species of Ophiurans diflfer gener- 

 ically from the six species collected in Bermuda. Considerable 

 local difference in the littoral Echinoderm fauna is thus .seen to 

 exist between these three portions of the West Indian region. 



It is remarkable that the common West Indian species Toxopne- 

 ii.stes variegatus was not collected at Vera Cruz, although three other 

 species of sea urchin are abundant in that locality. It was the only 

 species of sea urchin collected in Yucatan. Can it be that at Vera 

 Cruz its place is taken by Ecliinometra suhangularis f 



It is a noteworthy fact that although Diadevia setosum is found in 

 the West Indies, upon the West African coast and throughout the 

 Indo-Pacific region, it is absent upon the west coast of America. 

 A large number of species of Holothurians, Sea Urchins, Starfishes 

 and Ophiurans, although not found in the Atlantic tropical region, 

 are similarly distributed throughout the entire Indo-Pacific region, 

 being ])resent in the islands of the Pacific, the East Indies, the In- 

 dian Ocean and upon the Eastern Coast of Africa, and resemble Dia- 

 dema setosum in their absence, with a few rare exceptions, from the 

 West Coast of America. This interesting fact appears to me expli- 

 cable in the following way : — The littoml species of the tropical 

 regions are probably distributed principally by the warm equa- 

 torial currents flowing from east to west. The equatorial currents 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



of the Pacific arise upon the western coast of America,' and flow- 

 ing through the islands of Polynesia and the East Indies distrib- 

 ute their species westward, and it would be naturally supposed 

 that the species occupying the area where the currents arise would 

 be also carried in that direction. This, however, is not so ; probably 

 for two reasons. 1. The equatorial counter-current impinges upon 

 the greater portion of the western coast of Central America and 

 produces a quiet area in which there is apparently little circulatory 

 motion. Further, the north and south equatorial currents arise 

 respectively off the coasts of Lower California and Peru, and prob- 

 ably come little into contact with the littoral fauna of west Central 

 America. 2. The eastern portion of the Pacific Ocean contains very 

 few islands which could serve as connecting points in the distribu- 

 tion of littoral forms. These are probably the reasons why the west 

 Central American forms are not found in the Indo-Pacific region. 

 The equatorial counter-current, which could form the only possible 

 means of communication from the Indo-Pacific tropical region to the 

 west Central American tropical region, traverses a tract in which 

 there are only a few scattered islands which are jDrobably not sufficient 

 in number to bring about the introduction of the fauna of the one re- 

 gion into the other. 



General Literature of the Echinoderm Fauna of the 

 West Indian Region (not including the Crinoids). 



1825. Thomas Say. On the species of the Linnsean genus Asterias 

 inhabiting the Coast of the United States. Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila. (1), Vol. 5, p. 141. 



1826. Thomas Say. On the species of Linnsean genus Echinus in- 

 habiting the Coast of the United States. Ibid, p. 225. 



1851. L. F. Pourtales. On the Holothurite of the Atlantic Coast 

 of the United States. Proc. Anier. Assoc, 1851, p, 5. 



1856. Chr. Liitken. Contributions to the Knowledge of the Ser- 

 pent-Stars. II. Review of the West Indian Ophiurans. Vid- 

 ensk. Meddel. Kjobenhavn, p. 1. 



1859. Chr. Liitken. Contributions to the Knowledge of the Star- 

 fishes of the Coasts of Central and South America. Vidensk. 

 Meddel. Kjobenhavn, p. 25. 



1859. Chr. Liitken. Addimenta ad historiam ophiuridarum. II. 

 Description of little known Serpent-Stars from the West Indies 



1 See Dr. Van Bebber, Lehrbuch der Meteorologie, Stuttgart, 1890, Tab. ii. 




PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1^90 



KEYES ON CARBONIC CALYPTR/EIDAE. 





Pioc. Arad.Nat . Sci .Phila.1890. 



Plate III. 



C ) 



..^^^ 



10 



\ 



narxmaii,.Jel. 



JriaiTir? Abone '-.iKlr.l'tixl^ 



1IAHTMAN,XEW SPECIES OF SHELLS. 





PROC. ACAD NAT. SCI 



SHARP, ON VINCELONIAN VOLCANO. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA, 1890. 



PL. V. 



PILSBRY, NEW AMERICAN MOLLUSKS. 





PROC, ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 1390. 



PL. VI. 







PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILA. 18^ 



Fiuita G<n-€la t 'il!.\^ P'"(:€ird 





Proc.Acafl.Nal.Sri PhilaiaOO. 



Plat<^ \'II!, 



IVKS, MEXICAN ECHINODERM8. 





1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 337 



and the West Coast of Central America. Vidensk. Selsk, 

 Skrift. Kjobehavn, p. 179. 



1865. Theodore Lyman. Illustrated Catalogue of the Museum of" 

 Comparative Zoology at Harvard College. No. 1 Ophiuri- 

 dse and Astrophytid?e. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. 1 . In- 

 cludes a description of the principal West Indian Ophiurans. 



1867. A. E. Verrill. Comparison of the Tropical Echinoderm 

 Faunse of the East and West Coasts of America, Trans. Conn. 

 Acad., Vol. 1, p. 339. 



Notice of the Corals and Echinoderms collected by Prof. C. E. 

 Hartt, at the Abrolhos Reefs, Province of Bahia, Brazil, 1867, 

 Ibid, p. 357. 



1869. Alexander Agassiz. Preliminary Report on the Echini and 

 Starfishes dredged in deep water between Cuba and the 

 Florida Reef by L. F. de Pourtales, Assist. U. S. Coast 

 Survey, Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. 1, p. 253. 



1869. Theodore Lyman. Preliminary Report on the Ophiuridse 

 and Astrophytidse dredged in deep water between Cuba and 

 the Florida Reef by L. F. de Pourtales, Assist. U. S. Coast 

 Survey. Ibid, p. 309. 



1869. L. F. de Pourtales. List of Holothuridffi from the deep sea 

 dredgings of the United States Coast Survey. Ibid, p. 359. 



1871. Axel. Vilh. Ljungman. Forteckning ofver ute Vestindien 

 af Dr. A. Goessamt under Korvetten Josefinas Expedition in 

 Atlantiska Oceanen samlade Ophiurider. Ofvers. Kongl. 

 Ventensk. Akad. Forhandl. No. 6. Stockholm. 



1871. Theodore Lyman. Supplement to the Ophiuridie and Astro- 

 phytidse, Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. II, No. 6. Descrip- 

 tion of deep sea and shallow water Ophiurans from Florida. 



1871. Chr. Liitken. Fortsatte kntiske og beskrivende Bidragtil 

 Kundskal an Sostjernerne (Asteriderne) Vidensk. Meddel, 

 Kjobehavn. Includes a revison of the tropical American 

 species of Echinaster. 



1872. Alexander Agassiz. Echini of the Eastern Coasts of the 

 L^nited States together with a report on the deep sea Echini 

 collected in the straits of Florida by L. F. de Pourtales As- 

 sist., U. S. Coast Survey in the years 1867-1868. Mem. 

 Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. Ill, Part II. 



23 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



1874. Tlie Zoological Results of the Hassler Expedition. 



i. Alexander Agassiz and L. F. de Pourtales. Echini 

 Crinoids and Corals. 



ii. Theodore Lyman. Ophiuridpe and Astrophytid?e, in- 

 cluding those dredged by the late Dr. Stimpson. Mem. Mus. 

 Comp. Zool., Vol. IV. Includes descriptions of West Indian 

 species. 



1878. Edmund Perrier. Etude sur la repartition geographique 

 des Asterides. Nouv. Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat. (2) t. 1, p. 1. 



187Jt. Richard Rathbun. A list of the Brazilian Echinoderms 

 with notes on their distribution, etc. Trans. Conn. Acad, 

 vol. 5, p. 139. 



1879. Reports on the results of dredging, under the supervision of 

 Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of Mexico, by the United 

 States Coast Survey steamer " Blake," Lieut.-Commander 

 C. D. Sigsbee U. S. N. commanding. II, Bull. Mus. Comp. 

 Zool. vol. 5, p. 181. 



Alexander Agassiz. Report on the Echini. 

 L. F. de Pourtales. Crinoids and Corals. 

 Theodore Lyman. Ophiurans. 



1881. Alexander Agassiz. Report on the Echinoidea dredged by 

 H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876. 



1882. Theodore Lyman. Report on the Ophiuroidea, dredged by 

 H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876. 



1882. Hubert Ludwig. Verzeichniss der von Prof. Dr. Ed. Van 

 Beneden an der Kiiste von Brasilien gesammelten Echinoder- 

 men. Mem. Cour. Acad. Roy. Belgique, Vol. XLI V, No. 5. 



1883. Alexander Agassiz. Reports on the Results of Dredging 

 under the supervision of Alexander Agassiz, in the Gulf of 

 Mexico (1877-78), in the Caribbean Sea (1878-79) and 

 along the Atlantic Coast of the United States (1880), by the 

 U. S. Coast Survey Steamer " Blake." Report on the Echi- 

 ni. Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool., Vol. X, No. 1. 



1884. Ed. Perrier. Memoire sur les etoiles de mer recueillies dans 

 la mer des antilles et le Golfe de Mexique. Nouv. Arch. 

 Mus. Hist. Nat. (2), t. vi. 



1885. Richard Rathbun. Report upon the Echini collected by the 

 U. S. Fish Commission Steamer " Albatross" in the Car- 

 ibbean Sea andGulf of Mexico, January to May, 1884, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., Vol. viii, p. 83. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



Report upon the Echini collected by the U. S. Fish Com- 

 mission Steamer " Albatross" in the Gulf of Mexico from 

 January to March, 1885, ibid. p. 606. 

 1886. Hjalnuir Theel. Report on the Holothuroidea dredged by 

 H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876. 

 Includes faunal lists and description of West Indian species, 



1886. Hjalniar Theel, Report on the Holothuroidea, dredged by 

 the " Blake." Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. Vol. xiii, p. 1. Re- 

 port upon species collected in the West Indian region. 



1887. H. F. Nachtrieb. Notes on Echinoderms obtained at Beau- 

 fort, N. C. Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the 

 Biological Laboratory, Vol. iv, p. 81. 



1888. Angelo Heilprin. Contributions to the Natural History of 

 the Bermuda Islands. Proo. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. p. 309. 



1889. W. Percy Sladen. Report on the Asteroidea collected by 

 H. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-1876. Includes 

 faunal list and description of West Indian species. 



Explanation of Plate VIII. 



Fig. 1. Holothuria Heilprini, side view, natural size. Drawn 



from the contracted alcoholic specimen. 

 Fig. 2. Perfect table viewed from the side, above and below. 

 Fig. 3. Imperfect table from around the disks of the pedicels, 



viewed from the side. 

 Fig. 4. Rib-like rods of the papillse. 

 Fig. 5. Two segments of calcareous ring. 

 Fig. 6. Rosettes. 

 Fig. 7. Holothuria Silamensis. Two segments of the calcareous 



ring. 

 Fig. 8. Rib-like rods of the papillae. 

 Fig. 9. Rosettes. 

 Fig. 10. Holothuria nitida. Perfect table, viewed from the side, 



above and below. 

 Fig. 11. One of the imperfect tables occurring around the disk of 



the pedicels, viewed from the side. 

 Fig. 12. Rib-like rod from the papillse. 

 Fig. 13. Two segments of the calcareous ring. 

 Fig. 14. Small common rosettes. 

 Fig. 15. Larger uncommon rosettes. 

 Fig. 16. Echinaster Brasiliensis natural size, dorsal surface. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Fig. 17. Ventral surface. 



Fig. 18. A portion of the ventral surface, enlarged two diameters to 



show the three rows of ambulacral spines. 

 Fig. 19. Thyraster serpentarius. Portion of the dorsal skeleton of 



an arm, enlarged about four diameters. 

 Fig. 20. Portion of the ventral skeleton of same. 

 Fiff. 21. Portion of the lateral skeleton of same. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



October 7. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 

 Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



" Eocene ]\Iollusca of the State of Texas." By Prof Angelo 

 Heilprin. 



"The Fossils of the Orizaba Marble of Mexico." By Prof. 

 Angelo Heilprin. 



The Publication Committee reported in favor of publishing a 

 paper entitled "On the Influence of Previous Pregnancies on Off- 

 spring," by Charles Morris, in a medical journal to be selected by 

 the author. 



Beroe on the New Jersey Coast. — Prof. Leidy exhibited drawings 

 of a Beroe, which he had observed in considerable numbers in Little 

 Egg Harbor, at Beach Haven, N. J., the end of last August. In 

 swimming, it ranged from an inch to about four inches in length ; 

 the larger ones being red, the smaller ones much paler or even col- 

 orless, while occasionally some of intermediate size appeared yellow- 

 ish. It w^as compressed cylindrical, prominently ribbed, domed at 

 top and truncate at the mouth. kSpecimens caught and kept in a 

 dish became shorter, proportionately broader and to a variable de- 

 gree more bulging above. The ciliated ribs, or ambulacra, were vari- 

 ably prominent and the intervals variably concave or convex in 

 accordance with the contractile movements of the body and the pro- 

 jection of the ribs. The mouth was elliptical and as wide as the 

 body, but contractile so as to become narrower. All the ribs extended 

 from the summit of the dome to the margin of the mouth. The 

 coloring was superficial and especially well marked in the course of 

 the ambulacral vessels and their lateral ramifications. The endoderm 

 was colorless, as were also the lateral gastric vessels beneath it. 



Sevei'al individuals w^ere taken with masses of colorless jelly in the 

 stomach, seemingly portions of Cyanea arctica, fragments of which 

 occurred abundantly on the open sea coast in the vicinity. 



The summit of the body of the Beroe, the seat of the sense organs, 

 appeared specially sensitive, as on near approach of an instrument 

 without touching, it would suddenly retract and become depressed. 

 At night, on irritation of the Beroe, it displayed brilliant bands of 

 light with iridescent hues streaming along the ribs, but not elsewhere. 



The New Jersey Beroe is probably the same as that found on the 

 New England coast, described by Agassiz as Idyia roseola (Contrib. 

 pi. I, figs. 1, 2); very like the Beroe ovata, of the Mediterranean, 

 of Chun, (Die Ctenophoren des Golfes von Neapel, pi. xiv, fig. 1), 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



which seems to accord with the B. Forskalii of the Regno Animal, 

 pi. 56, fig. 1, but not that of the latter author. 



Eschscholtz describes Beroe ovata, from the West Indian seas, as 

 a large colorless species with only two of the ribs reaching the mouth, 

 (System der Acalephen, p. 36.) 



The aboral view of our Beroe is like that given of B. Forskalii in 

 the Regne Animal, fig. lb, and those of Idyia roseola, fig. 99 and 

 Idyiopsis Clarkii fig. J 02, in the Contributions of Agassiz. 



October 14. 

 Mr. Charles P. Perot in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



October 21. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Eighty-three persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 

 " Note on the soft parts and dentition of Stomatella." By H. 

 A. Pilsbry. 



" Notes on some Entozoa." By Joseph Leidy. 



October 28. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Ninety-one persons present. 



The death of Prof Wenzel Gruber, a correspondent, was an- 

 nounced. 



A paper entitled " An attempt to illustrate some of the primary 

 laws of Mechanical Evolution," by John A. Ryder, was presented 

 for publication. 



Messrs Chas. S. Welles and Thomas B. Harned and Miss Ida 

 Keller, Ph. D. were elected members. 



Prof Ernst Haeckel of Jena and Prof. Edw. L. Greene of 

 Berkeley, Cal. were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



TROCHID^ffil, NEW AND OLD. 

 BY H. A. PILSBRY. 



Since my monogruph of this family^ was written, a number of 

 specimens inviting notice have come into ray hands. 



Monodonta labio Linne, var. granulata Pilsbry. 



I have received from two sources specimens of a Monodonta refer- 

 able to labio, but having an interstitial row of granules in each inter- 

 liral groove ; these intervening grained lirai becom- 

 ing almost as prominent as the principal ones on 

 the last whorl. The number of granose lirre is thus 

 about doubled, giving quite a distinct aspect to 

 the shells. This is the more remarkable from the 

 fact that in the large suite of 31. labio before me 

 Fi^?T^ last year, none showed any trace of granose inter- 



stitial lirulre. The color is uniform ashen, one shell showing small 

 subsutural purple spots. All of the lira are markedly granose. 

 Monodonta neritoides Philippi. 



This shell I placed in the Section Neodiloma of the genus Mono- 

 donta, in the Manual of Conchology, although with considerable 

 doubt. From an examination of specimens recently presented to the 

 Academy by Mr. John Ford, it becomes obvious at once that both 

 M. neritoides Phil, and M. perplexa Pilsbry belong not to Neodi- 

 loma but to typical Monodonta; being furnished with a strong tooth 

 at the base of the columella. 



The description of Philippi applies to the specimen before me ex- 

 cept that this has a green streak outside the columella, and is larger ; 

 alt. 14, diam. 16 mm. The aperture is much more oblique than in 

 any other toothed species of Monodonta, except the M. perplexa, a 

 shell closely allied to neritoides, differing in color-pattern, the more 

 elevated acute spire, and the obvious spirals visible on the whorls 

 and within the mouth. 



Dunker's figures of neritoides (Index Moll. Mar. Jap. pi. 6, figs. 

 22, 23) are much more globose and smaller than Mr. Ford's example, 

 but agree well with numerous specimens before me collected by Mr. 

 Frederick Stearns in Japan. See also Manual of Conchology, xi, p. 

 468, pi. 38, figs. 20, 21. 



1 Manual of Conchology, 1st series, vol. XI, 18S9. 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Euchelus alabastrum Keeve. 



This shell has the globose-conical form common to the more ele- 

 vated species of the genus. The aperture occupies less than half the 

 altitude of the shell. It is umbilicate, solid and thick, the surface 

 lusterless and chalky-white having a few dark dots 

 on the spiral carinse. The sculpture consists of 

 elevated spirals, flange-like and curling upward, with 

 a very beautiful fine crenulation on the concave 

 upper surfaces of the flanges. The third spiral is 

 Fig. 2. at the periphery of the body-whorl ; below it there 



are six spiral cords, the lower four exquisitely serrated, the last 

 one within the edge of the funnel-shaped umbilicus. The whorls of 

 the spire are tri-carinate ; sutures excavated. The mouth is very 

 oblique, closely lirate within ; columella nearly straight, toothed 

 near the base. 



Alt. 17, diam. 16.1 mm. ; oblique alt. of mouth 13 mm. 

 This form was badly described by Reeve in P. Z. S. 1854, p. 209. 

 It has not been noticed by subsequent authors. As it is so well- 

 marked a species, it seems worth while to have a recognizable de- 

 scription and figure published. The habitat is Diego Garcia, a little 

 island near Mauritius. 



The specimen figured was given me by Mr. C. W. Johnson. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, ^ 345 



THE PERISOMIC PLATES OF THE CRINOIDS. 

 BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER. 



Ill nearly all Crinoids, recent and fossil, in which the free arms 

 ■do not start out directly from the (first) radials, the lower arm joints 

 are incorporated into the calyx either by soft tissues, or by means of 

 plates to which the term interradials has been applied. The inter- 

 radials are exceedingly variable in form and character, being in some 

 groups well developed, rigid plates ; while in others they are irreg- 

 ular, ill-formed pieces or mere limestone particles resting within soft 

 tissues. The great difference in their structure among different groups 

 led to the belief that the rigid and regularly arranged plates, which 

 are so characteristic of the Camerata, did not belong to the same sys- 

 tem of plates as the irregular, small pieces which unite the rays of 

 recent Crinoids, and Dr. P. H. Carpenter applied to the former the 

 term " calyx " interradials, as opposed to the interradial plates of 

 the disk. 



A somewhat similar distinction has been made respecting the plates 

 which form the ventral pavement. The heavy, rigid plates of Pal- 

 aeozoic forms were called " vault" plates, the small, irregular pieces 

 of later and recent Crinoids " perisomic " or " disk " plates. The 

 term " vault " was applied generally in cases in which mouth and 

 food grooves are permanently closed, and " disk " where mouth and 

 food grooves are opened out. 



In the Camerata the interradials are arranged on a definite plan. 

 They are stout, large, and united by close suture, so as to make the 

 whole test to the bases of the free arms extremely rigid. In the 

 Actinocrinidae the interradial series invariably commence with one 

 plate which is followed by two in the second row, and two, three or 

 four, according to species, in the succeeding ones. The posterior 

 interradius is wider and split vertically into two halves by a series 

 of anal plates which support the anal tube. In the other families of 

 the Camerata, the Reteocrinidae excepted, the arrangement of the 

 interradials is similar and equally regular. But in the Platycrin- 

 idae and Hexacrinidae the first row consists of three or more pieces, 

 and in the Rhodocrinidae the first interradial is interposed between 

 the radials. The plates forming the ventral side of the calyx are as 

 rigid as those of the dorsal side, and none of them are described as 

 pierced by water pores. They consist normally of five irregular 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



orals, of which the posterior one is larger and pushed in between 

 the four others, and of the so-called interradial dome plates, which 

 connect witli the interradials of the dorsal cup. Occasionally there 

 are outside the orals, a few other large pieces known as the radial 

 dome plates. In some species the orals are unrepresented, and the 

 whole ventral surface of the calyx is studded with interradial plates. 

 The mouth in none of the Camerata is exposed, but the ambulacra 

 wnth tightly closed food grooves are frequently visible. 



The inner floor of the ventral covering in most of the Actinocrin- 

 idae is deeply grooved so as to form well-defined galleries which lead 

 to the arm bases. Within these galleries is observed quite frequently, 

 but, so far as we know, only in BatoermiiS; Eretmocrinus, Dorycrimis, 

 Admocrinus, Teleioerinus and Physeiocrinus, a sort of second integ- 

 ument' parallel with the upper, which we took to be the disk. It 

 consists of rather irregular, ill-formed plates, arranged like those at 

 the upper surface. Each plate is connected with the corresponding 

 upper one by small surfaces or pillars, but the plates among them- 

 selves are not in contact laterally leaving open spaces or meshes be- 

 tween them. They constitute, as it appears, a kind of internal lining or 

 net-work, which extends from the first costals^ and first interradials 

 uninterruptedly to the margins of the orals, but no further. In some 

 specimens the inner plates are less distinct, and we find at the inner 

 floor small pillars or nodes, but nothing like plates. Within the 

 galleries the intervening spaces are occupied by the ambulacra. 

 The latter take the form of radiating tubes which run parallel with 

 the inner floor, and branch as often as there are bifurcations in the 

 calyx. Each tube is composed of four rows of plates, two above and 

 two below, the upper ones alternately arranged with a furrow along 

 the median line. The arrangement of the tubes and their mode of 

 branching are best observed in natural casts. Looking at such a 

 specimen, it seems indeed as if it could be scarcely possible that the 

 surface as it there appears, with the vault plates removed, the ambu- 

 lacra stretched out upon the upper face, resting within an integument 

 of irregular pieces, could represent anything but the disk as exposed 

 at the ventral surface of the Comatulae. 



1 For a more complete description of this integument see Revision of the Pal- 

 aeocrinoidea, Pt. Ill, p. 60. 



* The terms costals, distichals and palmars are explained in a paper of Dr. 

 Carpenter. (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., July number, p. 15). 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



As another proof that there actually were two integuments in some 

 Ci'ijioids, we considered Siphonocrinus armosus from the Niagara 

 group. This species, so well known from natural casts, apparently 

 has a large trumpet-shaped, subtegminal anal tube, which crosses the 

 mouth, overlies the upper part of the anterior ambulacral tubes, and 

 is continued subtegminal ly all the way to the anterior side of the 

 calyx, even beyond the arm regions, where it bends outward. The 

 case is best illustrated if we imagine the disk of a recent Crinoid, 

 with an anal tube like that of Antedon regalis (Chall. Rep. on 

 Comat., PI. 46, fig. 2), extended out all the way to the arm bases of 

 the anterior ray, and covered by a vault. 



It seemed to us beyond a doubt that in the foregoing cases two 

 distinct structures covered the body, and it was upon these specimens, 

 principally, that we based the opinion that the Camerata had a vault 

 and a subtegminal disk. In taking this view, we did not overlook 

 the fact that in many of these Crinoids, throughout different groups, 

 the covering plates of the ambulacra are exposed upon the surface ; 

 but this seemed to us not to offer any serious objection, for the am- 

 bulacra in all Camerata, at one place or another, come to the surface 

 from beneath the " vault," whether within the limits of the calyx or 

 at the bases of the free arms. A very interesting case was illustrated 

 by us in our Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, Pt. Ill, PL V, fig. 9; 

 in which the ambulacra do not enter the surface at the outer edges of 

 the orals as in most species of Platycrinus, nor at the arm bases, but 

 at a place midway between orals and arms, from beneath the smaller 

 vault plates. 



It is a striking fact, in the Crinoids as elsewhere, that some char- 

 acteristics which are of the utmost importance from a morphological 

 point of view, prove to be of comparative little value for classifica- 

 tory purposes. This is the case to a very high degree with regard 

 to the ambulacra of the Platycrinidae and Actinocrinidae, which 

 may be tegminal or subtegminal. In the Platycrinidae the covering 

 pieces are generally exposed in the calyx ; in the Actinocrinidae, 

 however, they are, as a rule, hidden from view, or were supposed to 

 be so. But the opposite is also the case in both groups, and even 

 within the limits of a genus. Actinocrinus stellaris from Belgium 

 has large, well-defined covering pieces passing out from the outer 

 edges of the orals ; while most species of Adinocrinas only have in 

 place of them so-called radial dome plates of a first, second and 

 third order, according to the number of bifurcations in the calyx. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Physetocrinus, which is but a modified Actinocrinus, in some species 

 has orals and radial dome plates, while in others the whole ventral 

 surface is covered by numerous irregular pieces. Actinocrinus 

 multiradiatus, on the contrary, has but few very large ventral plates 

 which interlock with those between the rays. In most of the Actino- 

 crinidae the interradials pass insensibly into the vault, there being 

 no dividing line ; while in Batocrinus generally, but not always, the 

 interradials of the dorsal side are distinctly separated from those of 

 the ventral side by the overarching brachials, a structure w'hich led 

 us at first to suppose the plates of the two sides to be morpho- 

 logically distinct. 



Similar diflferentiations we find in the ventral structure of the 

 Platycrinidae and Hexacrinidae. In some of their species the pave- 

 ment is made up entirely of massive plates, in others of compara- 

 tively thin pieces ; while in still others the ventral surface is occupied 

 almost exclusively by the orals. In both these groups absolutely 

 no distinction can be made between interradials and vault plates. 

 The first row, which generally consists of three plates, is peripheral, 

 and is followed by other rows which are strictly ventral. The plates 

 forming the second and upper rows, when such are present, inter- 

 lock with each other and those of the first row, in a similar manner 

 as the interradial plates of the dorsal cup in an Actinocrinus. 



The conditions of the ventral pavement in the Melocrinidae, Rhodo- 

 crinidae and Glyptasteridae are very similar to those in the Actino- 

 crinidae and Platycrinidae ; many of them have uninterrupted rows 

 of covering pieces exposed upon the surface, but the plates as a rule 

 are smaller, less regular in their arrangement, and the orals and 

 radial dome plates are more rarely represented. The lower inter- 

 radials in all of them are definitely arranged, and there is no line of 

 demarkation between the two hemispheres except that produced by 

 the arms which pass out between them. In the Reteocrinidae, as 

 in most of the Silurian Camerata, the whole ventral surface is 

 covered by minute irregular pieces, and similar plates, with a few 

 somewhat larger ones scattered among them, are interposed between 

 the rays from the basals up. In the Grotalocrinidae and Acro- 

 crinidae, the calyx ambulacra are exposed ; their covering pieces are 

 comparatively small, and remarkably regular in their arrangement. 



Dr. P. H. Carpenter (Chall. Rep. on Stalk. Crin., pp. 165 and 

 166) agrees with us that the calcareous network beneath the vault 

 of an Actinocrinus " corresponds to the limestone j^articles on the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PPIILADELPHIA. 349 



surface of the internal casts, and represents tlie ambulacral plates 

 developed in the perisonie of recent Crinoids." He also admits " the 

 complete resemblance between the ventral perisome of a recent Cri- 

 noid and the upper surface of the body beneath the vault of an 

 Adinocrinus." Vault and ventral disk, he says, " are entirely dis- 

 tinct structures." Of the vault, he says further (p. 172) " I be- 

 lieve the oral or actinal system forming the vault of Actinocrinns to 

 have been developed on the left larval antimer, in exactly the same 

 way as the apical or abactinal system is developed on the right ; but 

 the oral system, insteadof being limited to five oral plates as in Neo- 

 criuoids, Beached a very extensive development, so that in its coni- 

 pletest form it represents such a parallel to the apical or abactinal 

 system as is to be met with in no other Crinoid." From these passages 

 and others in the Challenger Report, especially on p. 180,' to which 

 we shall refer again, it appears Dr. Carpenter supposed that in Act- 

 iuocriuns all plates of the calyx up to the arm bases were abactinal, 

 and all constituting the ventral side actinal, not only the orals and 

 the so-called radial dome plates, but also the smaller plates, the so- 

 called interradial dome plates, surrounding them. Similar views 

 were held by us and advocated in Pt. II of the Revision (pp. 14 to 

 21), but abandoned in Pt. Ill, (pp. 16 to 27) as to the interradial 

 dome plates, which we regarded as a continuation of the interradial 

 plates of the dorsal cup, and not as actinal structures. 



All interradial and interaxillaries, not only in the Camerata but 

 wherever they exist in recent or fossil Crinoids, increase by multi- 

 plication in the growing animal, and as such, are auxiliary pieces 

 filling up spaces between the rays and their sub-divisions. They 

 increase primarily in an upw'ard direction, but partly also by inter- 

 calation, secondary plates being introduced between the primary 

 ones. It is owing to the intercalation of these supplementary pieces 

 that the arrangement of the interradial plates in the upper rows is 

 less regular than it might be otherwise. In the simpler forms such 

 supplementary pieces are wanting, or they occur only around the 

 arm bases ; while in the Reteocrinidae they constitute the greater 

 part of the interradial and interaxillary areas. In this family 

 small pieces in large numbers continually formed in the growing 

 Crinoid along the margins of the radials and brachials, and between 



1 All quotations from the writings of Dr. Carpenter, if not otherwise stated, 

 are from the Challenger Report on the Stalked Crinoids. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



the regular interradials, so as to isolate these from their fellows and 

 from the plates of the rays. 



The interradial plates, as stated before, are continued into the 

 vault, and in species in which there are but one or two bifurcations 

 in the calyx, this is quite readily ])erceived ; but in the more com- 

 plex forms the primary structure is frequently obscured by the intro- 

 duction of numerous supplementary jiieces, and it appears as if the 

 plates of the ventral side belonged to a distinct system. Looking at 

 a specimen of Strotocrinus, with its broad flanging rim, its hundred 

 and more arms crowded around it, and its thousands of minute vault 

 plates, decreasing in size outward, and in no way connected with the 

 interradials of the dorsal side, it is not surprising that Carpenter 

 regarded them, as we did at first, as structurally distinct from the 

 latter. 



To understand the structure of Strotocrinus let us refer to the al- 

 lied genus Steganocrinus, in which in a similar way the arms branch 

 off" alternately like pinnules from the two main divisions of the rays; 

 but while in Strotocrinus the lower part of the arms is incorporated 

 into the calyx, forming a continuous rim, from which the free arms 

 start off", in Steganocrinus the two divisions of the rays with their 

 small alternate arms are free, and extend out laterally in the form of 

 free tubular appendages. Now, it is very interesting to find that in 

 Steganocrinus the interradials meet the plates of the dome in such a 

 manner that it is absolutely impossible to draw a line between them 

 (see Steganocrinus pentagomis, Iowa Geol. Rep. Hall., Vol. I, Pt. II, 

 PI. 10, figs. 6 a, b.). The case of Steganocrinus becomes the more 

 instructive because this genus with its free arms may be regarded as 

 representing an early stage in the developmental history of Stroto- 

 crinus. 



A structure similar to that of Steganocrinus is found in all Cam- 

 erata in which the arms become free after the first bifurcation, and 

 from this condition all gradations can be traced to the complex 

 structure of Strotocrinus. We are therefore of the opinion that the 

 interradials interposed between the rays, and those at the dome, 

 must be regarded as parts of the same element, and as representing 

 a system of plates introduced between the actinal and abactinal sys- 

 tems, but actually belonging to neither. 



More than in the Actinocrinidae, Dr. Carpenter differs from us as 

 to the structure of the Platycrinidae. The ventral pavement of an 

 Actinocrinus he calls "a structure sui generis," i. e, different from 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



that of »a Platyervius. He is inclined to believe (Chall. Rep. on 

 Stalk. Crin., p. 180), "that the vault of a Platycrinoid corresponds 

 collectively to the orals, interradials, ambulacral and anambulacral 

 plates of Neocrinoids." He regards (p. 178) the peripheral portion 

 of the " vault," by which he means the zone between the so-called 

 summit plates and the radials, as generally corresponding to the large 

 interradial of Cyathocrinus, and to the single interradial of Coecocri- 

 mis. As to the plate of Cyathocrinus we cannot agree with him for 

 reasons which will be stated further on. That of Coccocrinus 

 obviously represents the " calyx interradials " of Platycrinus, and 

 not a plate of the peripheral zone. 



In referring to MarsujAocrinus he says (p. 176), "I have a very 

 strong impression that the so-called vault of this genus is really the 

 strongly plated ventral perisonie," and " I cannot see any such essen- 

 tial difference between it and the plated disk of Pentacrinus wyville- 

 thomsoni or of many Antedons (PI. XVII, fig. 6 ; PI. LV.) as would 

 lead to the supposition that the homologue of the latter is to be 

 sought for beneath the vault of 3Iarsiipiocrinus." He then alludes 

 to the closure of the n)outh, and to the covering pieces proceeding 

 from the perisome, which may have been immovably closed down 

 over the food grooves : " They were thus converted into tunnels, but 

 were still ' external,' in the sense of not being covered by a ' tegmen,' 

 as those were which formed the tubular skeleton beneath the vault 

 of the Actinocrinidae." 



We have pointed out before that the covering pieces are exposed 

 not only in the Platycrinidae, but quite frequently also in other fami- 

 lies of the Camerata, exceptionally even in the genus Actinocrinus. 

 Now, if it were true that in Crinoids in which the calyx ambulacra 

 are entirely subtegminal, and not only the ambulacra but the whole 

 disk is covered in by a structure " sui generis" and on the contrary, 

 in forms in which the ambulacra are exposed there is no vault, and 

 the plates in which the ambulacra rest form the disk, it seems to us 

 that the two groups should be distinguished as separate orders ; and 

 it would seem to follow that all attempts heretofore made toward 

 classifying the Crinoids would be altogether arbitrary and worthless. 

 It was these considerations which led us to believe that the integu- 

 ments in both cases must be the same thing, either a vault or a disk, 

 the plates either all vault pieces or all perisomijc. The evidence 

 seemed to be conclusive that the disk, at least in some groups, was 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



subtegminal, and this, which was accepted by leading authorities,, 

 led us to assume that in all Camerata the true disk was covered in 

 by a vault. In fact this seemed to be corroborated by the nature of 

 the plates, which, although varying considerably in size and number,, 

 in all these Crinoids are arranged on the same general principle,, 

 forming in all of them a compact rigid test, and in all of them 

 mouth and food grooves being perfectly closed. 



We have already stated that in some species of Platycrinus the am- 

 bulacra make their appearancenot at the margins of the summit plates, 

 but at some point between the orals and the arm bases, from beneath 

 the upper ring of interradials. In these species, applying Carpen- 

 ter's interpretation, the lower interradials would be perisomie for 

 they enclose the ambulacra, and the upper ones vault plates because 

 they do not. In Pterotocrinus, the last survivor of the Hexacrinidae, 

 the vault, as Dr. Carpenter admits (p. 177), "seems to have had a 

 closer resemblance to that of Adinocrinus than is the case in most 

 Platycrinidae, for it has radial dome plates of the first, second, and 

 even occasionally of the third order." Such radial dome plates, he 

 supposed, existed also in some Platycrinidae, and he asserts " There 

 was a membranous disk, the radial regions of which were traversed 

 by the ciliated food grooves beneath the ambulacral skeleton above ; 

 while the inter-palmar regions supported the interradial plates of 

 the vault." In the Actinocrinidae, however, he thought, the tegmen 

 was further extended so as to cover the wliole ventral surface. 



We never imagined that Platycrinus had anything but a membran- 

 ous disk, but we thought that the disk was continued underneath 

 the interradial plates all the way to the arm bases. Neither did we 

 suppose there were any further plates above the food grooves but 

 the alternating pieces ; nor that the latter were true vault plates as 

 Dr. Carpenter on p. 179 seems to have inferred we did. We 

 held that, while in the typical Adinocrinus the interradial dome 

 plates meet over the ambulacra, and form more or less elevated 

 ridges upon the surface, the " vault " of the Platycrinidae, by opening 

 out, exposed the covering pieces, and these were gradually incorpor- 

 ated into the test. In a typical Platycrinoid the covering pieces are 

 so modified as to lose alnaost altogether their original character, being 

 as large and nearly as heavy as the surrounding plates, and they are 

 united with the latter, and with one another, by close suture. In 

 some of the later Platycrinidae the covering pieces even may have 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



been separated fi'oni tlie food grooves, for in the internal casts noth- 

 ing is found but the impressions of these plates, while in casts of 

 Actinocrinus, from the same locality, and in casts of certain Silurian 

 Platycrinidae, probably Cordylocriniis or Ciilicocrinus, in which the 

 covering pieces perhaps were less modified, the outlines of the am- 

 bulacra are sometimes sharply delineated, and apparently formed 

 solid tubes embracing the ambulacral vessels and food grooves. 



It is to be observe'!, that while Dr. Carpenter regarded the inter- 

 radial pieces of Platyerinus as perisomic plates, he alludes to the 

 ventral covering of that genus as a vault, including the anambula- 

 cral plates (p. 180) ; while in speaking of the ventral surface of the 

 Reteocrinidae, Ichthyocrinidae and the genus G/ypfocrinus, he 

 -generally applies the teims " disk " and " interpalmar area." We 

 allude to this fact, as he criticised us on p. 166 for using these terms 

 indiscriminately in our writings. He explains the terms as follows : 

 " The expression ' oral disk ' or ' ventral disk ' is universally used to 

 denote the upper surface of the visceral mass of a Crinoid, i. e., that 

 in which the mouth is placed with the food grooves radiating outwards 

 from the peristomial area around it." The ventral covering of 

 Platycrinus, accordingly, should be called a disk like that of Ghjpto- 

 crinxis, if it really is as, he maintains, morphologically in a similar 

 condition. 



The ventral structure of the Melocrinidae and Rhodocrinidae, 

 Carpenter probably supposed to have been in the same condition as 

 that of the Actinocrinidae and Platycrinidae, a disk when the ambu- 

 lacra are exposed, and a vault when they are concealed. He con- 

 siders Glyptocrinus in connection with the Reteocrinidae and Ichthy- 

 ocrinidae, in all of which the ventral pavement is composed of an 

 immense number of very minute, irregularly arranged pieces, which 

 in the Ichthyocrinidae are traversed by regular rows of alternating 

 pieces passing out from the mouth to the arras ; in the other fami- 

 lies, however, such alternating plates, if present at all, are found only 

 near the arm bases. Carpenter says in reference to these groups (p. 

 185), "I venture to think that in the case of Glyptocrinus, Reteocri- 

 nus and Xenocrinus, and also of the Ichthyocrinidae, the resemblance 

 to the Pentacrinidae, Apiocrinidae, and Comatulidae is such as to 

 leave no reasonable doubt that the so-called vault of these Palaeo- 

 crinoids is homologous with the ventral surface of the body in the 

 Neocrinoids." This is j^erfectly true as to Taxocrinus and Oiiycho- 

 24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1S90. 



crinus, and probably the Ichthyocrinidae generally, in which mouth 

 and food grooves are exposed, as we now knuw from actual observa- 

 tion' ; but in the case of Reteocriaus and Glyptocrmus he had no 

 proof beyond a superficial resemblance of the plates. Similar plates 

 occur among species of the Actinocrinidae and Meloerinidae in the 

 same genus, together with species with large plates, and all of these 

 must be perisomic or none of them. 



We now take up the Inadunata, which we have sub-divided in 

 Pt. Ill of the Revision, into Larviformia and Fistulata. 



The Inadunata Larviformia were regarded by us as representing 

 the larval state of the Crinoids in a persistent form. The most com- 

 plex Actiiiocrinoid or Cyathocrinoid must have ])assed in early life 

 through a stage in which it closely resembled Haplocrinus, when^ 

 the entire calyx consisted of basals — sometimes underbasals — radials, 

 and orals. To these plates subsequently in Symhathocrinus an anal 

 plate was added, but this disappeared in the later AUagecrinus. 

 The three stages here alluded to, which are represented phylogeneti- 

 cally by distinct genera or families within the group, recur in the 

 embryonic development of recent Crinoids. 



The most characteristic embryonic feature of this group, is the 

 covering of the ventral side by orals only. The plates of Haplocrinus 

 were called by us orals in Pt. II of the Revision ; but when 

 later on we thought we had discovered centrally within this ring of 

 plates another plate, we regarded this as the representative of the 

 orals (Rev. Pt. Ill, pp. 31 to 34), and those surrounding it as inter- 

 radial plates. Subsequently discovering conclusively that such a 

 plate does not exist, we admitted our mistake^ and recognized the 

 scheitelplatten as orals. The Larviformia, therefore, have neither 

 interradial nor interambulacral plates, and that they were in a low 

 state of development is seen also by their arm structure. By far the 

 iQost of them have but one arm to the I'ay, and their arm joints are 

 immovably united by suture, but the union between radials and 

 brachials is by articulation. Even in Haplocrinus, probably the 

 lowest known form of this group, the radials are perforated. The 

 earliest Larviformia known to us are from the Upper Silurian, but 



1 Discovery of the Ventral Surface of Taxocrinus and Haplocrinus, and con- 

 sequent Modifications in the Classification of the Crinoidea, by Charles Wachsmuth 

 and Frank Springer; Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Fhila., 1888, pp. 837-363. 



■^ Ibid., p. 340. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 355 



these were evidently preceded by lower forms, which have so far 

 escaped notice, owing perhaps to their diminutive size. We think 

 this the more probable as the sjjecies throughout this group are ex- 

 ceedingly small, some of them almost microscopic. 



From Huploerinus to Hybocrinus and Hetei-ocrinus there is but a 

 small step. All three have compound radials, and in the two latter 

 the ventral sac, which represents the best character of the Fistulata, 

 is in its first stage of development. The transitions from Symbutno- 

 crinus through the Hexacrinidae to the Actinocrinidae are equally 

 gradual, in the latter the orals being carried inward by sup])lement- 

 ary plates interposed between radials and orals. tSijmbafJiocrinus 

 has an anal plate, and its orals had already that asymmetric ar- 

 rangement — the posterior one larger and interlocking with tlie four 

 others — which they retain throughout the Camerata. The introduc- 

 tion of a single interradial plate between the proximal brachials 

 transforms Allagecrlnus into either Coccoerinus or Culicocrinu.-^. 



We formerly arranged among the Larviformia also the Gastero- 

 comidae, but these will have to be removed to the Fistulata or be 

 placed in a new subgroup. We now think that the Larviformia 

 should be restricted to forms in which the radials are directly 

 followed by the orals. 



The Inadunata Fistulata, like the Inadunata Larviformia, have 

 no interradials in the dorsal cup, the anal piece excepted, but all 

 have interambulacral plates. Four of the interradial spaces of the 

 dome are raised but little above the level of the arm bases, but the 

 posterior area is extended upwards, and formed into a sac or tube 

 of various forms, frequently rising beyond the tips of the arms. This 

 appendage, which in all probability embraced' a large portion of the 

 visceral cavity, must not be confounded with the anal tube of the 

 Camerata, which simply contains the rectum. The ventral sac is 

 generally the only part of the ventral pavement preserved in the 

 specimens, and even this in most cases but fragmentarily. It is 

 either tubular, balloon-shaped, spiral or club shaped, and is generally 

 pierced by pores, which, however, do not penetrate the body of the 

 plates but merely enter the edges. The structure of the four other 

 sides is satisfactorily known only in the Cyathocrinidae and Anom- 

 alocrinidae, and fragmentarily in the Hybocrinidae, Poteriocrinidae 

 and Eacrinidae, enough to indicate that our former definition, giv- 

 ing to all Fistulata but one rinar of interradials, was erroneous. 




356 PROCEEDINfJS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



We have recently been fortunate in ])rocuring fi-oni Montgomery 

 Co., Indiana, a large number of specimens, some 50 or 60, compris- 

 ing 7 species of Cyathocrinua in which the entire ventral structure 

 is in excellent preservation, in many of them to the very end of the 

 ventral sac. They were obtained by removing the arms in some of 

 the most perfect specimens, a sacrifice for which we were richly re- 

 warded. We have also procured from iSweden, through the kind- 

 ness of Prof. G. Lindstnim, careful drawings of some of the types in 

 the Stockholm Museum which, together with the specimens above 

 mentioned, throw a flood of new light upon the ventral structure of 

 this difficult group, and lead to the conclusion that the various spe- 

 cies are built on a similar plan, and do not differ so essentially as 

 it appeared to us at first from Angelin's figures. The most aberrant 

 form is probably represented by Cyathocrinns alutaeeus, of which we 

 give an enlarged figure (PL IX, fig. 1). In this species, the greater 

 part of the ventral surface is occupied by 5 large well defined orals 

 which are arranged in the same manner as those of the Camerata; 

 the posterior plate is larger, and its upper end is inserted between 

 the four others. The orals are surrounded by numerous irregular 

 pieces, of which the outer ones abut against the radials. There are 

 no large interradial plates, nor regular rows of side or covering 

 pieces such as we find in Cyathocrinns laevis, but alternating with the 

 orals, and resting against them, there is toward each ray a sub-tri- 

 angular piece, resembling the so-called radial dome plates of Platy- 

 crimis. 



The spcimens, PL IX, figs. 2-3, both of which Angelin referred to 

 Cyathocrlnus laevis are either distinct species, or one of them is in a 

 more advanced stage of growth. That represented by fig. 3 (Iconogr. 

 Crin. Suec, PL 26, fig. 2) probably at one time had orals like C. 

 ahitaceus, but these were partly resorbed and replaced by other 

 plates. In fig. 2 (Iconogr. Crin. Suec, PL 26, fig. 36), the resorption 

 of the orals was apparently complete, and their place is occupied by 

 irregular covering pieces, which join in the center. Farther out the 

 ambulacra have well defined side pieces, and small covering plates 

 close the food grooves. 



A very different structure is seen in the specimen, Revision 

 Palaeocr. Pt. Ill, PL IV, fig. 2, from the Burlington and Keokuk 

 Transition beds ; in which it appears as if there had been 5 large 

 interradial plates, leaving a wide open space in the center. The 

 plates meet laterally, and form upon their edges deep grooves for the 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKXCKS OF I'lIILADKLrillA. 357 



reception of the ambuhicra. In another specimen of the same species, 

 fig. 6, on tlie same phite, four of tlie " interradial plates " are almost 

 completely covered by minute, very delicate perisomic i)ieces, but of 

 the posterior one the greater part of the surface is bare. In C'yatho- 

 crinus ioivoisls, PI. X, figs. 2-3, the larger plates are so closely united 

 that it appears as if they formed a continuous undivided ring around 

 the peristome, and served as a support for the delicate perisomic plates 

 on top. This was the opinion of Wachsmuth, who in 1877 (Amer. 

 Journ. Sc, Vol. XIV, pp. 183 and 184), regarded them as constitu- 

 ting asort of consolidating apparatus like that described by Roemer in 

 C'upressocrinus. We afterwards (Revision Pt. I, p. 12), suggested 

 that the " consolidating plates " of Cyathoeriuns, and those of Cupres- 

 socrinus, were structurally identical with the deltoids of the Blastoidea, 

 and both homologous with the orals in the Antedon larva. Similar 

 views were expressed by Prof. Zittel, Dr. Carpenter, and lately by Dr. 

 Neumayr who all agreed that those plates in Cyathocrinus were orals. 

 This interpretation, which at first seemed most plausible was abandoned 

 by us in 1884, and also by Carpenter, owing to a morphological diffi- 

 culty which it involved ; for the ambulacra would then have to pass 

 ovei; and not betiveen the edges of the plates, a combination which 

 seemed to us at variance with the nature of the oi'als. Since then, 

 until lately, we have regarded these ])lates as interradials ; but with 

 considerable hesitation, for the plates are neither interradial nor inter- 

 ambulacral, but for the greater part su^-ambulacral. In their rela- 

 tions to surrounding parts they differ essentially from the interradials 

 of Platycrhms or those of any other Camerate genus. Besides in 

 Platycrinus the ambulacra rest against the edges of the interradials, 

 and only the covering pieces are exposed on the surface ; while in most 

 of the Cyathocrinidae, if not in all, the whole ambulacrum rests on top 

 of them, and the small perisomic plates sustain toward the side and 

 covering pieces the same relations as the interradial plates of 

 Flatycrinus. That the plates are not orals, is further proved by the 

 fact that there are in Cyathocrinus iowensis other large plates cover- 

 ing the peristome, which naturally represent them. The orals, 

 which in C. alutaceus are unchanged through life, apparently were 

 wholly or partly resorbed in other species, and their places occupied 

 by large covering plates, of which the proximal ones joined in the 

 center. This is well shown in the specimens PL IX, figs. 5, 7, 8, 9, 

 and PI. X, figs. 1-3, and seems to have been the case in Cyathocrbms 

 laevis PI. IX, figs. 2 and 3, and Euspirocriuus spiralis, PI. IX, figs. 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



4-5 ; but while in all of the former species the ambulacra rest between 

 small irregular perisomic plates Avhich ])ass up from the upper ends 

 of the radials, Euspirocrinus has four large " interradial " plates, 

 and the corresponding space of the posterior side is taken up com- 

 pletely by the ventral tube. Whether these four plates were covered 

 like those of C. iowensis and C. gilesi cannot be ascertained from the 

 specimen, nor can we say whether the Silurian Cyathocrinidae 

 generally had a large plate beneath their smaller ones ; but we are 

 convinced that such a plate is present in all Subcarboniferous species 

 of CyatJiocrinus. 



Conceding now that those plates of Cyathocrinus are not orals, what 

 are they ? Interradial plates ? It seems to us the fact that they support 

 the ambulacra and are covered by perisome, proves as completely that 

 they are not interradials as that they are not orals. If they were 

 calyx interradials, the " vault" would be placed beneath the disk, 

 Avliile if they were perisomic plates there would be two disks on top 

 of one another. Besides, the plates are subtegminal and decidedly 

 subambulacral, and the question arises are they not wholly or in 

 part subambulacral plates. 



"We have examined the two specimens of Cijathocrinus iowensis 

 figured by Meek and Worthen (Geol. Rep. Illinois, Vol. V, PL 9, 

 figs. 13 and 14), which are now in the Museum of Comparative 

 Zoology at Cambridge. After comparing with them our specimens 

 from Indiana, and several from Burlington, we became convinced 

 that the consolidating plates, as we had called them, consist not of 

 five but of seven plates, one to each of the four regular interradii, 

 and three to the posterior one. Of the three latter plates, the mid- 

 dle one is larger, and occupies the space between the ambulacra and 

 the ventral tube, the other two being altogether subambulacral. 

 The middle plate, which we find in most excellent preservation in 

 the Indiana specimens, is not covered by other plates, but is through- 

 out profusely perforated, in a somewhat similar manner as the mad- 

 rei)orite of other Echinoderms, and in our opinion, must have per- 

 formed similar functions. 



Considering now that in Cyathocrinus iowensis, and in the other 

 Subcarboniferous Cyathocrinidae in which the " madreporite" is 

 represented, the tube is imperforate, and that, on the contrary, in 

 Euspirocrinus spiralis the whole space which in other forms is oc- 

 cupied by the madreporite, is taken up by the ventral tube, and that 

 this is profusely perforated, it seems natural that the single plate of 

 the former should have performed the functions which in the latter 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



were discharged by the tube. This is further probable, if it is true 

 that the ventral tube is the greatly extended posterior area of the 

 ventral disk, and that the " madreporite" represents not the proxi- 

 mal plate of that area but the distal one. The first row of iuter- 

 radials of the posterior side in all Crinoids in which there is either 

 a ventral sac or proboscis, rests upon the special anal plate, if such 

 is present, and hence this cannot be located in a Cyathoerwus at the 

 ventral side of the calyx, but must be looked for at the base of the 

 tube facing the dorsal cup. This, it seems to us, ])roves concki- 

 sively that the perforated plate is a true anambulacral plate, analo- 

 gous with the perforated limestone particles at the disk of recent 

 Crinoids, and not a first interradial. Neither can we regard the two 

 narrow pieces at either side of the " madreporite" as true interradials, 

 i'ov if they represented, as inight be supposed, the posterior interradial 

 split into two halves by the madreporite, they should rest like the 

 middle one against the anal plate. They are strictly subambuhi- 

 cral, supporting one-half of the two posterior ambulacra, the other 

 half resting upon the incurved lateral margins of the adjoining lar- 

 ger plates. This seems to suggest that not only the two smaller 

 plates but possibly also the four larger ones, wholly or in part, are 

 subambulacral plates, and this is not so improbable as it might 

 seem at first sight, if we remember that these parts in all Cyatho- 

 crinidae, perhaps with the exception of Euspirocrinus spiralis, are 

 covered by other structures. 



We have stated before that the " consolidating plates" of Cyatho- 

 crinus were regarded by us and Dr. Carpenter as closely similar to, 

 if not homologous with, the deltoids of the Blastoidea. In both these 

 groups the plates are laterally connected, and partly covered by the 

 ambulacra so as to be in part subambulacral ; but, while in the 

 Cyathocrinidac generally the middle or deltoid j^art is concealed by 

 perisome, it is more or less exposed in the Blastoids. The similar- 

 ity that exists in the structure of these plates between the two groups 

 is best observed by a comparison with Pentremites. In this genus, 

 the deltoid part is heavy, and differs quite distinctly from the con- 

 cealed subambulacral portions, which are comparatively delicate. 



Pentremites has also an interambulacral integument of small 

 plates overlying the upper portions of the deltoids, which either are 

 spinous themselves or covered with spines,' and we cannot help think- 



^ The Summt Plates in Blastoids, Crinoids and Cystids, and their Morpho- 

 logical Relations, by Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer (Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 1887. pi^. 9 to 11). 




360 I'ROCEEDINGy OF TIIK ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ing that these plates represent morphologically the perisomic plates 

 which cover the so-called interradials of Cyathocrinus. 



Now, is it not possible that the deltoids are compound structures, 

 and the concealed parts were originally separate siibamhulacral 

 plates, which in palaeontological times became anchylosed with the 

 deltoid pai't to give more strength to the calyx ? This seems quite 

 probable if we consider that a fusion of two or more plates often 

 takes place among Crinoids, and that interradial plates, as the term 

 denotes, cannot be suhambulacral. Such, indeed, also might have 

 been the case in Easpirocrinus in which the interambulacral parts 

 are large and apparently not covered by perisome. It is in this re- 

 gard very significant that in Blastoids with large deltoids, such as 

 Elaeacrinus and Schizoblastus sayi, it appears from the ornamenta- 

 tion as if the deltoids originally might have consisted of three parts 

 which afterwards had been anchylosed, and Lyon (Kentucky Geol. 

 Rep., p. 489, PI. V, fig. 16), has actually described interradials in 

 Elaeacrinus. In this genus we find generally upon the surface of 

 the deltoids, parallel with the ambulacra, a short distance from them, 

 raised lines, and all striations toward them from the ambulacra are 

 horizontal, while those between the lines take an upward course. 

 This feature is so universal and conspicuous, that it probably is more 

 than mere ornamentation. Such striations upon the plates are more 

 or less the result of growth, and this would seem to indicate, that 

 the growth of the plates took place independently in different direc- 

 tions, and that the parts in question are morphologically distinct. 

 The ambulacra of Elaeacrinus are narrow, and it is quite possible 

 that in this genus the " subambulacral " pieces enclosed an interra- 

 dial in the way we suggested ; but that in Cyathocrinus they abutted 

 laterally so as to form a support for the disk. This of course is as 

 yet simply hypothesis and has to be substantiated. 



The ventral sac of the Cyathocrinidae rarely, if ever, reaches the 

 tips of the arms. It is closed at the up})er end, and composed of ver- 

 tical rows of hexagonal, rather short and solid pieces, which are so 

 arranged that the plates of adjoining rows alternate with one an- 

 other. The anus is placed near the top facing anteriorly, and closed 

 by a small pyramid of five or six triangular pieces, resembling those 

 of the Cystids and Stephanocrinus. 



The tegmeu of the Hybocrinidae is similar to that of the Cyatho- 

 crinidae, but the posterior interambulcral area rises but little above 

 the level of the four others. The ambulacra are tegminal, and ap- 




1<S90.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



paroiitly i-est upon tlie lateral iiiar<i'ins of the five large plates. There 

 are no orals, the median portions of the disk being occupied by large 

 covering plates. The anus is closed by a pyramid of six or more 

 pieces, surrounded by numerous irregular smaller plates. 



The ventral pavement of the Anomalocrinidae, which we have 

 observed in a fine specimen from the Museum of Comparative Zool- 

 ogy at Cambridge,^ is very dirterent from that of the Cyathocrinidae. 

 It consists of rather large, moderately thick, irregular pieces, five or 

 six deep, which decrease in size toward the center and cover the 

 peristome, there being no orals or consolidating plates. The outer 

 plates rest against the large incurved limbs of the radials, which 

 form a wide and deep sinus at the upper face of the calyx for the 

 recej:)tiou of the ambulacra, which come out beneath the irregular 

 calyx plates above, as beautifully shown in the specimen. Not 

 only are the ambulacra! plates on a lower level than the disk plates, 

 but they are also of a difl^erent shade of color, which makes the case 

 more instructive. 



In the Poteriocrinidae, the ventral pavement has never been found 

 in perfect preservation. We have dissected a number of finely pre- 

 served specimens, but only in one instance found small fragments of 

 the tegmen in situ, which indicate that it consisted of very small 

 delicate pieces. The plates of the ambvdacra must have been also 

 extren)ely fragile, for with the exception of the one instance above 

 mentioned, we never found them preserved either upon the disk or 

 upon the arms, owing probably to the absence of any consolidating 

 ap])aratus. The form and size of the ventral sac is extremely vari- 

 able in this group. In some genera it extends beyond the tips of the 

 arms, in others consists merely of a short cone, in some of them it 

 is tubular, in others club-shaped, in some balloon-shaped or coiled 

 uj), the sides of the whorls connected or free ; but in all eases, so far 

 as known, the plates are arranged in vertical rows which sometimes 

 diverge at intervals, and in all of them the edges of the plates^ — not 

 their substance — are perforated by pores or clefts. The anus, 

 wherever it has been observed, is located at the anterior side of the 

 sac, and generally well down toward the bottom. 



1 Prof. Alex. Agassiz has given us the unrestricted use of the magnificent Cri- 

 noid collections of the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge, containing 

 several of the finest original and typical collections ever made from different forma- 

 tions, both in this country and Europe. Only those who are acquainted with the 

 extent and variety of the material thus brought together can appreciate the obliga- 

 tion under which his liberaliiy has laid us. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



A similar porous sue is found in the Heterocrinidae and Belenino- 

 crinidae, but nothing is known of the other phates of the disk. 



Among the Encrinidae, a ventral pavement has been discovered 

 by Wagner (Zeitschr. d. Deutsch., Gesellsch., 1887, pp. 822 to 828). 

 The pavement, as we infer from his description, rests against the 

 radials, whence it I'ises to about the height of the third brachials, 

 where it coutracts abruptly to one-half its diameter at the base, and 

 is surmounted by a sort of cone. The peripheral part consists of 

 small limestone particles or irregular plates, and is decidedly 

 flexible; while the conical part, which is composed of larger plates, 

 is more or less rigid. Nothing is said about the ambulacra, which 

 probably were not visible in the specimen. That the cone represents 

 a short ventral sac, and that the Encrinidae must be classified with 

 the Fistulata, as we have always maintained, is clearly shown from 

 Wagner's description. 



A somewhat similar disk has been observed by De Loriol in Apio- 

 crinus roissyauus (Paleont. Francaise., 1st serie, Anim. Invertebr., 

 Crin., p. 272), a species which is here of especial interest as having 

 plates interposed betweeen the rays. These plates, Avhich are large, 

 extremely heavy, and apparently rigid, w^ere regarded by Carpenter 

 as true " calyx interradials." Upon this we criticised him (Revision^ 

 Pt. Ill, pp. 63, 72 and 137), as it appeared to us the plates must re- 

 present morphologically the same thing as the smaller plates between 

 the rays of the Pentacrinidae and Comatulidae. They occupy not 

 only a similar position, but also join with the plates of the ventral 

 disk in a similar manner. A structure parallel to that of Apiocrinus 

 roissyanus, we find in most of the Ichthyocrinidae and in Guettardi- 

 crinus. The interradials are large and heavy, rather regularly ar- 

 ranged, and it was the superficial resemblance that led Dr. Car- 

 penter to regard them as homologous with the calyx interradials of 

 an Actinocriuoid, and as morphologically distinct from the plates be- 

 tween the rays of the Comatulidae. This leads to the question what 

 are "calyx" and what "disk" — interradials? The former term 

 was introduced by Carpenter, but so far as we know^, never explained 

 by him. 



It has been our impression that in all Crinoids with a vault, i. e., 

 all forms in which we supposed we found a subtegminal disk, or had 

 reason to postulate a disk from analogy, the plates between the rays 

 invariably were " calyx " interradials ; and, on the contrary, in those 

 Crinoids in which the disk itself formed the surface, all plates between 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



the rays were perisomic. We arrived at this conclusion after dis- 

 covering that the interradials of the Camerata are continued into 

 the " vault," and supposed that underneath them there was another 

 system of skeletal plates which, like the former, extended from the 

 upper margin oftlieradkds up to the orals. It was upon these grounds 

 that we held the iuterradial plates of Apiocrinus and Guettardi- 

 criims to be enormously developed perisomic plates, and upon the 

 same piincij)le we called the corresponding plates in the Ichthyo- 

 crinidae perisomic, as soon as we had found an open mouth and a 

 true disk in Taxocrinus. The " calyx interradials," we thought, 

 formed an upward prolongation of the dorsal cup, and the perisomic 

 plates a downward extension of the disk, as was practically done by 

 Carpenter in the case of thePentacrinidae and Comatulidae, and in 

 the Palaeozoic Reteocrinidae and Platycrinidae ; while in other groups 

 he seems to have been of the opinion that the " calyx interradials " 

 are followed sometimes by vault — and sometimes by disk plates. In 

 Thaumatocrinus he calls the large plates between the radials " calyx " 

 interradials, and the smaller ones above perisomic plates. In Glypto- 

 crimis it appears that he regarded the plates between the rays as 

 " calyx " interradials and those of the dome as perisomic. In the 

 Actinocriuidae, however, he thought the " calyx " interradials to be 

 followed by a vault. All this indicates that in these groups Car- 

 penter was influenced largely, if not altogether, by the size of the 

 plates and their regular or irregular arrangement. He regarded 

 the plates as " calyx " interradials and vault pieces, respectively, 

 when large and regularly arranged, but as perisomic plates when 

 small and of ill-formed boundaries. We allude to these facts 

 to show that neither the small size of the plates, nor the pres- 

 ence of ambulacra upon the surface, are good criteria to make 

 them perisomic plotes. That there exists, however, a close re- 

 semblance in some of these forms with some of the perisomic plates 

 of recent Crinoids, we are quite ready to admit, and in pointing this 

 out. Dr. Carpenter, no doubt, laid the foundation for a better under- 

 standing of those structures ; but he did not go far enough. He 

 overlooked that among palaeozoic and recent Crinoids are found 

 all intermediate stages from the membranous disk of Antedon 

 to the solid vault of an Actinocrinus or Batocrinus, and this fact has 

 led us to enquire whether all interradial and " vault " plates are not 

 perisomic. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Ever since we discovered that tlie ventral surface of Taxocr'uius 

 is a true disk, we became convinced that the views heretofore held 

 by us respecting vault and disk, must be greatly modified or alto- 

 gether abandoned. We have since given considerable thought to 

 the subject, and in the latter part of last year laid the results before 

 Prof. Alex. Agassiz and Dr. Carpenter, who both encouraged us to 

 continue our researches in that direction. Prof. Agassiz informed 

 us that he had come to quite similar conclusions respecting those 

 plates from his own studies, and Dr. Carpenter with his usual liber- 

 ality gave us valuable hints and explanations, and now agrees with 

 us on this question in all essential points. 



The ventral pavement of the Camerata is composed of interradial 

 plates which, as before explained, form a continuation of the plates 

 from the dorsal cup, and these meet with the orals, where they are 

 represented. Frequently also the covering plates of the ambula- 

 cra take part in the pavement, and a set of plates to which we gave 

 the name " radial dome plates." As the latter plates were supposed 

 to form an integral part of the vault, overlying the ambulacra, they 

 deserve especial attention. They were regarded by us, and also by 

 Carpenter, as the actinal representatives of the radials, but later in- 

 vestigations have shown that they are highly differentiated cover- 

 ing pieces. The plates appear in two forms. They are either fol- 

 lowed by series of covering pieces, and pass out from between two 

 orals, as in most species of Flatycrinus ; or they are in a certain 

 sense isolated plates, surrounded by other "vault" p»lates, and suc- 

 ceeded by similar plates of higher rank, as in the case of the Actin- 

 ocrinidae with subtegminal ambulacra. The former case is quite 

 readily perceived if we examine the Silurian forms, in which, when 

 their ambulacra are exposed, two regular series of alternating plates 

 pass outward directly from the orals. Here either the radial dome 

 plates are wanting, or they must be represented by the proximal 

 covering plates. In the later Platycrinidae, the covering plates 

 throughout lose much of their original character, being, as a rule, 

 more extravagantly developed than in the earlier forms, and the 

 proximal plates of each ambulacrum are larger than the succeeding 

 ones, so as to obscure the alternate arrangement. 



The " radial dome plates " of the Actinocrinidae and allied forms 

 are generally larger than any of the surrounding plates, often nodose, 

 and sometimes extended into long spines. They are not followed 

 by covering pieces like those of the Platycrinidae, and, unlike them, 




1890.] NATURAL SCrEXCKS OF PHrLADEH'IItA. 365 



are lociitcd at some distance from the orals, being placed in the sim- 

 pler forms, with but two arms to the ray, close to the outer margin 

 of the vault {Agaricof.rinus), directly over the point at which the 

 bifurcation of the aml)ulacra takes place. AVhen there are four arms 

 to the ray, they are removed relatively further inward, and are fol- 

 lowed by two similar but smaller i)lates; but when there are three 

 arms to the ray by one plate only, which is directed to the side of 

 the bifurcation. 



It is now very interesting to find also that the axillary plates of 

 the covering pieces upon the ambulacra are frequently protuberant. 

 In Encladocriniis millebrachiatus all along the free appendages they 

 are strongly nodose, and their tops, if the ambulacra were subtegmi- 

 nal, would naturally extend into the vault, and be exposed to view. 

 That all calyx plates, and especially the " radial dome plates," were 

 capable of secreting an enormous amount of limestone matter, is well 

 shown by the fact that in some species of Dorycrinus the plates are 

 extended to the length of three or four inches, and their ends, if acci- 

 dentally broken during the life of the Crinoid, were at once replaced. 

 Our explanation that the radial dome plates were developed from 

 the covering plates, seems to us exceedingly probable, and has been 

 favorably received by Dr. Carpenter. If the plates were special 

 structures covering the ambulacra, as heretofore supposed, they would 

 have to be regarded as true vault plates. 



In many of the Palaeozoic Crinoids we find upon the tegmen ele- 

 vations, which sometimes take the form of ridges and pass out from 

 near the center to the arm bases. These ridges which are best pre- 

 served and most frequently found in Silurian Camerata, are formed 

 either by the covering plates, or by the so-called smaller vault pieces 

 which pass up from between the rays. Similar ridges occur upon 

 the disk of recent Comatulidae, but these are always formed by the 

 covering pieces, and the plates are movable ; Avhile in Palaeozoic 

 forms, in which covering plates enter the surface, these are united 

 by a suture. Ridges of this kind are found in Actinocrinus qainquau- 

 gularis Angl. (Iconogr. Crin. Suec, PI. XVI, fig. 28), Habrocrinus 

 ornatus (Ibid., PI. XXVII, fig. 5), Marsvpiocrinus depressus and 31. 

 radiatiis Angl. (Ibid., PI. X, figs. 16 & 21), and Pktfijcrinus syvi- 

 metrieus W. & Sp. (Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1888, PI. 18, fig. 

 15). The mouth in these species is closed either by the orals, or, 

 when these are absent, by the uppermost covering })ieces, which inter- 

 lock with those of adjoining rays. Very prominent ridges occur al- 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



SO upon the disk of the Ichthyocrinoid genus Taxocrinus, as shown 

 by our figure in the Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philadelphia, 1888, 

 PI. 18, fig. le. In this genus, contrary to the preceding forms, 

 mouth and food grooves are opened out, but otherwise its ventral 

 structure agrees so closely with that of the young Platycrinus sym- 

 metricus that it seems as if there could be no doubt that the two in- 

 teguments are composed of the same elements. Indeed, a slight re- 

 ceding outward of the posterior oral, and movable covering pieces, 

 would place the two forms essentially in the same condition. It 

 would seem to suggest further from analogy, that in all other groups 

 in which the ambulacra are exposed ver}' similar conditions prevail, 

 and that in all those forms, as in Taxocrinus, the ventral surface is 

 a disk. So far we have met with no serious difficulties, but they 

 arise when we consider those forms in which the ambulacra enter 

 the surface at a point from beneath the interradial plates. 



If there was in these forms, as heretofore supposed, a system of 

 skeletal plates distinct from the disk, which cover the ambulacra 

 and the disk generally, it would seem to follow that the upper inter- 

 radials, w'hich surround the orals and cover the ambulacra, must be 

 vault plates, and all lower ones, so far as the ambulacra are exposed, 

 disk plates. 



Cases in which the calyx ambulacra pass out from beneath the 

 interradials before they enter the arms, are found in different fami- 

 lies of the Camerata. They occur more frequently among Silurian 

 than among the later Crinoids, and generally in forms in which the 

 ventral surface is paved by small irregular pieces, such as Ghjpto- 

 crinus, Reteocrinns and Archaeocrinus, but also occasionally among 

 Subcarboniferous forms. A most instructive case of this kind is rep- 

 resented by a rather young specimen of Megistocrinus nobiUs, in 

 which not only the covering plates, but also well developed side pieces 

 enter the calyx. The ventral side of this species consists of moder- 

 ately large, irregularly arranged plates, which gradually decrease 

 in size toward the arms. The tegmen is perfectly flat except near its 

 outer margin, where it-is distinctly plicated to form the large openings 

 for the ponderous arms. At the flat inner portions the ambulacra are 

 concealed, but along the plicated outer j^art the covering plates and 

 side pieces are in sight for some distance, and the interradial dome 

 plates extend only to the lateral margins of the ambulacra. It is 

 now quite instructive that in another, more adult specimen of this 

 species, those parts of the ambulacra which in the former specimen 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 367 



were exposed, are rooted over by an extension of tlie interainbida- 

 cral plates of .subsequent growth. This incidental observation is 

 very important, as it throws niucli light upon the development of the 

 so-called vault of the Cainerata generally,. It shows that the same 

 system of plates, which in a young specimen is t7(^e?--ambulacral only, 

 may gradually become s«^;?'a-ambulacral in another. 



A somewhat different structure we observed in a finely preserved 

 adult specimen oi Megistocrinus evansi, in which in three of its i*ays 

 two series of large, nodose alternating plates pass out from near the 

 orals in the direction of the ambulacra. The series are frequently 

 interrupted by small, flat pieces, passing out from the interambu- 

 lacral spaces, and these intermingle with the larger ones. At some 

 places the arrangement of the lai-ger plates, which evidently are 

 covering pieces, is as regular as in any Platycrinus, but at others 

 owing to the interference of the smaller plates, quite irregular, especi- 

 ally in the two rays to the right of the anus, in which scarcely any 

 two of these plates are continuous. It is most remarkable that in no 

 two specimens of this species is the arrangement of the covering 

 pieces alike, and in some of them only the five large bifurcating 

 plates, the so-called radial dome pieces, ai-e in view, which are 

 followed by ten others of a second order ; these, however, are always 

 represented. The ventral structure of this species offers not only a 

 most excellent proof that the so-called radial dome plates, as suggested 

 before, are extravagantly developed covering pieces, but indicates 

 also that the "vault" was formed by a gradual extension of the 

 interambulacral pieces toward the ambulacra, either covering the 

 latter entirely, or intruding upon them, leaving the more])rominent 

 plates exposed. 



In Glyptocrinus and Reteocrinns the tegmen is essentially in the 

 same condition as in MeglMoeriims nobilis, but the plates are smaller, 

 and in the absence of orals nearly the whole surface is covered by 

 small granular plates, including the central portions. Toward the 

 periphery there are ridges leading to the arm bases, but these are 

 not found at the middle part, where the surface is evenly convex. 

 Only on top of these ridges, that is, in close proximity to the arm 

 bases, are the covering pieces exposed. They are quite regularly 

 arranged in two rows, and so well defined that we doubt if it is pos- 

 sible that they were continued further up along the surface, as 

 suggested to us by Dr. Carpenter, or they would be recognized in the 

 specimen. It seems to us more probable, and almost certain, that 




368 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



they were exposed only to near the upper ends of the ridges, and 

 then followed the inner floor. If this interpi-etatiou is correct, 

 GlyptocrinuH represents another instance in whitth a sort of vault is 

 formed by the lateral extension of tlie interanibulacral system of 

 plates. 



An examination of the different tegmens which occur in the 

 various families of the Camerata, leads to the conclusion that the 

 ambulacra, as a rule, are subtegminal in specimens with a high 

 dome and bulging at the arm bases ; but are generally tegminal, or 

 become tegminal before entering the arms, in species with a flat or 

 depressed surface. They are also exposed in species with high 

 ridges, and in those in which the arm openings are directed upwards, 

 a structure which necessitated a rising of the ambulacra toward the 

 arms. The presence or absence of the ambulacra upon the tegmen, 

 therefore, is not, in our opinion, an essential structural feature in it- 

 self, but is rather a consequence of differences in the form and con- 

 struction of the tegmen in the respective species. This explains in 

 a natural way why the ambulacra are exposed in forms like Adino- 

 crinus quinquangularw, Habrocriinis ornatus, Marsupiocriitns de- 

 pressus and Glyptaster ornatus, all of which have a more or less 

 flattened ventral surface, and conspicuous elevations reaching up to 

 the orals, and why in the typical Actinocrinus with a high conical 

 dome the ambulacra are subtegminal, but tegminal in the depressed 

 Actinocrinus stellaris which approaches the condition of the Platy- 

 crinidae. In Platycrlnus the tegmen is rather flat in ail elongate 

 species, and all have more or less high ridges. The latter we 

 find also in the short discoid species with an elevated dome, owing 

 probably to the shortness of the dorsal cup. The condition of the 

 ambulacra in Platycrinus may also be due partly to the extrava- 

 gant development of the plates. 



Comparing the earlier Melocrinidae and Actinocrinidae with those 

 from the Devonian and Subcarboniferous, it is seen that they are 

 built substantially on the same plan. Among the latter the ambu- 

 lacra occasionally form a part of the solid test ; while in by far the 

 majority of their species they are kept below. The plates in all of 

 them occupy relatively the same position to surrounding parts, the 

 only perceivable difference is that those of the later forms are some- 

 what larger and heavier, which is readily explained by palaeouto- 

 logical development. AVhy then should their tegmen be composed 

 of a system of plates morphologically distinct from that of the others? 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PIIILADELPHIA. 369 



In Glyptocrhms and 31egistocrintis, a sort of vault is formed by tlie 

 greater development of the interanibuhua-al plates and their gradual 

 fusion along the line of the ambulacra, and from that it would seem 

 to follow that similar modifications took place also in the later forms 

 if it was not for the su])posed disk at the inner floor of some species 

 of Batocrinus, Actinocrbius, Physetocrinns etc. As to this structure 

 we have recently made some very important observations. 



Through the kindness of Dr. Horace G. Griffith of Burlington, to 

 whom we are indebted for many favors, we obtained a most instruct- 

 ive specimen of Physetocrinus showing the structure along the inner 

 floor of the tegmen in a most excellent preservation. This spec- 

 imen has the great advantage of being free from any silicious coat- 

 ing, such as obscured the structure in all former specimens of 

 this kind. The outer surface of the tegmen is composed of mod- 

 erately large, smooth pieces of irregular form, closely fitted to- 

 gether at all sides. There are no orals, but near its outer margin 

 there are " radial dome plates " of a first and second order, which 

 are readily recognized by their larger size and greater convexity ; 

 but besides these no other covering pieces are visible. Looking at 

 the inner floor, we find the same arrangement of plates, and actually 

 the same plates, but their general aspect is totally different. They 

 appear as sharply delineated stars, with as many i-ays as there are 

 sides to the plates. There are abrupt depressions between the star- 

 rays, which on meeting the corresponding depressions of adjoining 

 plates, form deep, sometimes cavernous pits, more or less undermining 

 the plates ; and there seems to be but little doubt that the pits commu- 

 nicated with one another by imbedded passages all along the teg- 

 men. The star-shaped plates extend over the peristome as well as 

 over the ambulacra, but are occasionally interrupted by small, ir- 

 regular su pplementary pieces, apparently solid. The structure shows 

 plainly that the tegmen of Physetocrinus is not composed of two dis- 

 tinct sets of superimposed plates, but of one set only, which are solid 

 externally, and more or less perforated or porous at their inner por- 

 tions. That there is but one set of plates is further confirmed by the 

 position of the ambulacra which, as shown by the specimen, follow the 

 inner floor. The latter is of the utmost importance, for, if the upper 

 or solid part, as was supposed to be the case in the allied Batocrhnis 

 and Adinocrinus, represented a vault, and the inner part a disk, 

 the ambulacra, if placed beneath the latter, would be covered by 

 two integuments, at first by the overlapping interambulacral plates. 

 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890- 



and aiftiiu l)y a vault, which is exceedingly improbable. The ani- 

 bulacral skeleton itself is not preserved in the specimen, but the 

 place it occupied is clearly indicated by shallow grooves, which ai'e 

 formed by the thickening of the plates all along the interradial 

 spaces. 



The internal structui'e of Physetocrlnns gives us the key to that 

 of Batocrin.ns, Dorycriiius, Actiiiocrinus, and Teleiocrinus, in all of 

 ■which, Ave are no longer in doubt, there is but one integument, and 

 the part which we had heretofore regarded as the disk constitutes 

 the poriferous portions of the plates. That in these forms the re- 

 spective parts are continuous, connected by small surfaces or pillars, 

 was pointed out by us in the Revisioi> (Pt. II, pp. 26-27, and Pt. 

 Ill, pp. 60 and 61). We gave there a full description of the pores 

 and imbedded passages " evidently for the free circulation of 

 water"; but misunderstood the relations of the ambulacra to sur- 

 rounding parts. We then supposed that the sharp, slightly over- 

 hanging edges of the interradial partitions, along the sides of the 

 ambulacra, were closed beneath them ; which proves not to be the 

 case. The ambulacra in all specimens in which they have been pre- 

 served, are visible from within the calyx. 



The inner structure of these Actinocrinidae always reminded us of 

 the double test in the Clypeasteridae, in which the two parts are con- 

 nected by similar pillars, and we think it highly probable that we have 

 here among these Crinoids a complex vascular water system, which 

 extended all the way up from the interradial plates of the dorsal cup 

 to the upper end of the ventral disk. Such a complex system was not 

 necessary in recent Crinoids in which the whole ventral surface is 

 perforated, and the water could be brought in contact with any part 

 of the body, but the case is different in the Caraerata, in which the 

 tegmen is almost perfectly solid. 



There are good reasons to believe that in the Camerata the water 

 was introduced near the arm bases thi-o ugh small openings, described 

 by us (Revision, Pt. II, p. 51), as respiratory pores, and then fol- 

 lowed the canals and passages along the test. We have observed 

 such openings not only in the Actinocrinidae, but also in the Melo- 

 crinidae, and Rhodocrinidae. In the genus Dolatocrunts they are 

 slit-like as in Oi)hiurids. Like the round openings of Batocrinns 

 and Actinocrimis, they are located between the rays and their main 

 divisions, a little above the arm region. Some species have from 4 

 to 6 of these slits to each interradius, and 2 to 4 to each interdis- 




1890.] NATURAL SCrENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



tichal space, all arranged horizontally. In DolatocrinHs the vascu- 

 lar system probably extended only over the peripheral portions, the 

 upper portions at the inner floor of the tegnien being perfectly 

 smooth. In Batocrimts and Teleiocrinus it passes up to the outer 

 margins of the orals ; while in Physetocrbiufi, in species in which the 

 orals are unrepresented, it extends over the whole inner surface. 



The subtegminal anal tube of SiphonoGrinus is yet unexplained, 

 and we freely admit the structure is still a puzzle to us, but in the 

 absence of specimens showing the test (we know it only from natural 

 casts), we abstain from any speculation respecting it. It should be 

 said, however, that in Siphonocrinus nohilis the tube passes out 

 centrally — not anteriorly — which leads to the conclusion that the 

 ventral structure of Siphonocrinus armosus cannot have been essenti- 

 ally different from that of the other Camerata. The so-called sub- 

 tegminal anal tube is probably the extended hind gut, which passed 

 over the mouth and portions of the ambulacra. It appears from the 

 impressions upon the casts that the individual plates, w'hich cover the 

 ambulacra and surrounding parts, extend also over the " proboscis." 



From the foregoing facts it appears that Batocrbms, Phyiietocrinus 

 and allied forms likewise had but one integument covering the body, 

 that the structure which was supposed to represent the " vault," is 

 composed merely of the outward growth of the plates constituting 

 the disk, and that the plates are thickened and project in " T " shaped 

 extensions. 



It will be remembered that it was upon these forms mainly that 

 we postulated the presence of a vault in all Camerata, but now, if 

 it is true that even these have no further integument covering the 

 disk, it seems to us conclusive evidence that a vault as a special 

 structure does not exist in any Crinoids whatever, and that the teg- 

 men in all of them is a greatly modified disk. 



A comparison of the earlier with the later Camerata shows that 

 in Silurian forms the ventral surface, as a rule, is covered by small, 

 irregularly arranged plates; that these gradually increase in size in 

 the Devonian, and attain in the Carboniferous that extravagance of 

 form, which in the Batocrinites and Actinocrinites reaches its cul- 

 mination. With regard to the aml)ulacra we have observed that in 

 the earlier forms they are much more frequently exposed, their 

 covering pieces are smaller, more regularly arranged, and not so 

 highly differentiated as in the later ones. Their disk generally re- 

 sembles that of recent Crinoids, and if it were not for the sutural 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



union of the ambulacral and interanibulacral plates, and the closure 

 of mouth and food grooves, the conditions of the two structures 

 would be almost identical. 



From these observations we conclude that the heavy plated, ex- 

 travagantly developed integument, the so-called vault, was gradually 

 evolved in geological times from the thinly plated disk of earlier 

 forms. This may have been accomplished in the following way : 

 At first the ambulacra were exposed at the surface, but subsequently 

 became covered over by the great development of interambulacral 

 plates, which encroached upon their space at the surface from each 

 side, and finally closed in above them, crowding the ambulacral 

 skeleton inward. In species in which the ambulacra are not 

 covered but remain external, the covering pieces were stronger and 

 oftered greater resistance, so that instead of being crowded inward 

 they became incorporated into the test. 



Dr. Carpenter has suggested to us in a note a somewhat similar 

 case — though he thinks the parallel must not be carried too far — in • 

 the gradual obliteration of the ambulacral grooves in some arms of 

 Adinometra, where the convex perisome gradually encroaches more 

 and more on the sides of the groove, bringing its edges together, 

 and finally closing it. It seems to us that this is a very significant il- 

 lustration of what may have happened in the evolution of the closed 

 " vault " from the open disk. 



Returning again to the Inadunata, we find in the Fistulata the 

 palaeontoloffical development essentially different from that of the 

 preceding group. The plates of the ventral side of the calyx at no 

 time attain the I'igidity and large size of those in the Camerata. 

 The plates of the dorsal side, with the exception of the anal plates, 

 which we consider afterwards se])arately, undergo scarcely any 

 changes, and the brachials in all of them are free plates from the 

 radials up. The ventral sac in some of the earliest forms is quite 

 small, but rapidly attains enormous dimensions, constituting the 

 greater part of the calyx ; but at the end of the Carboniferous period 

 dwindled down almost as rapidly again to its former insignificance, 

 so as to be representediin Cromyocrinus, Eupaehycrinus, Erisocrinus, 

 and Encrimis only by a short cone. Respiration was effected direct- 

 ly through the test, but apparently only at the posterior side of the 

 calyx, either by means of pores along the ventral sac, or by a mad- 

 reporite placed anteriorly to the sac. The ambulacra of all Fistu- 

 lata, so far as known, are tegminal ; they are bordered by side pieces, 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLPnrx\. 373 



and the food grooves are roofed over by covering ])late.s, which were 

 ui)pareiitly iiniuoval>le. Tlie inouth was probably closed in all of 

 them. 



In tlie recent Holojyus, Hyocrhms and Bathycrinus, the ventral 

 sac is further reduced, so as to be a mere proboscis or anal tube. In 

 all of them the interambulacral plates them.selves are perforated 

 and not merely their margins, and mouth and food grooves are ex- 

 ])osed. 



The Inadunata Larvifonnia, as now restricted, have neither inter- 

 radial nor interambulacral plates, and rarely anals, and their orals 

 cover the ambulacra to the bases of the arms. They have apparent- 

 ly no water pores, in the calyx, and it is very possible that through- 

 out this group water for respiration was introduced through pores at 

 both sides of the arm ambulacra, as suggested already by us (Re- 

 vision, Pt. Ill, p. 83). 



The Articulata, the third great division of the Crinoidea, to which 

 we have heretofore referred only the Ichthyocrinidae, will probably 

 have to be amended so as to include the Comatulidae, Pentacrinidae, 

 Apiocrinidae and Bourgueticrinidae. How closely the Comatulidae 

 are related to the Ichthyocrinidae may be seen by comparing the 

 simpler forms of the latter with the young Antedon in its pedun- 

 culate state (Cliall. Report on Comat., PI. XIV). The stem in fig. 

 3 is exactly like that of Mespilocrinus, fig. 9 might represent as well 

 a young Onychocrinus, and the brachials of fig. 5, in their wav- 

 ing sutures are quite characteristic of the Ichthyocrinidae generally. 

 In all of these families the proximal brachials are incorporated into 

 the calyx, either by supplementary plates, by soft tissues, or by 

 sutural union. ^ In some species of the Apiocrinida? and Ichthy- 

 ocrinidae these supplementary pieces are quite large and massive, 

 and some have a sort of regularity in their arrangement, but they 

 are notwithstanding perisomic plates. The ambulacra throughout 

 this group are tegminal, although the plates are frequently not readily 



1 In some specimens oi Millericrinus it appears in the fossil as if their brachials 

 might have been free from the radials up; but we doubt it, as the capacity of the 

 calyx is too small to have contained the whole of the visceral cavity, and it seems to 

 us more probable that the lower brachials were connected by small plates or soft 

 tissues. A lateral union of the brachials, such as we find frequently in the Apio- 

 crinidae, and which occurs also in the Ichthyocrinidae, has never been observed 

 in any of the Camerata at least not between costals or distichals. In some Actino- 

 trinidae sometimes the higher bracliials are laterally connected. 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



<listinguislied from the interanibulacral plates, and the mouth, so 

 far as known, is exposed. 



It thus appears that in the Inadunata and Articuhita, as in the 

 Camerata, there is but one integument covering the body, and that 

 the ventral pavement, although undergoing various modifications in 

 geological times, is a true disk. We, therefore, abandon the term 

 " vault " as a morphological term altogether, and consider all plates 

 between the I'ays and interposed between the ambulacra, as well as 

 those covering the ambulacra when these are subtegminal, as plates 

 of the disk. 



We think the plates of a Crinoid fall naturally into two categories, 

 viz. primary, and secondary or supplementary pieces. The primary 

 plates form the fundamental part of a Crinoid, while the supplemen- 

 tary pieces serve to fill up spaces. The primary plates may be sepa- 

 rated into two classes : those developed on the right antimer, which 

 in one way or another are related to the axial nerve cords, and those 

 developed on the left antimer, and connected with the mouth or the 

 annular vessel around it. To the first class we refer the stem joints, 

 basals, underbasals, radials, all brachials whether fixed or free, and 

 the plates of the pinnules ; to the second the orals and all plates of 

 the ambulacra to the end of the pinnules. The remaining plates, 

 which embrace the various perisomic plates, are supplementary pieces, 

 and in our opinion neither strictly actinal nor abactinal. 



Dr. Carpenter, in the July number of the Ann. and Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 12, shows that, in analogy with other Echinoderms, there is 

 fundamentally but one ring of radials in a Crinoid, and that the 

 succeeding plates along the rays are brachials, a view which we have 

 held for some time, and discussed in various parts of our Revision. 

 After correspondence with us and mutual discussion, he brought out 

 special terms for the different orders of brachials. He proposed 

 the term costals for the primary brachials, distichals for the plates of 

 the second order, palmars for those of the third, post palmars for 

 those of the next order. To the arm plates after the last bifurcation 

 he applies the term free brachials. To the most of this terminology 

 we entirely agreed, but in some particulars it does not quite meet 

 the requirement in dealing with the greater complexity and variety 

 of construction found in the Palaeozoic forms. We find it more con- 

 venient to use the term brachials in its general sense, to designate 

 all plates of the rays succeeding the radials. They will be fixed 

 brachials so far as they are incorporated into the calyx, and free 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 375 



brachials when they ure not. In either case they will ulso take the 

 special a])pellation given by Carpenter, viz., costals,cUdichals, pa/mars 

 etc., which will be either fixed or free as the case may be. We ])refer 

 to use the term post palmars, however, for all plates beyond the 

 third bifurcation, whetlier there be further branching or not, and 

 applv free to all brachials that are free from the calyx, so that in 

 the Inadunata all plates beyond the radials are free brachials, 

 whereas, according to Carpenter's idea, in a frequently dichotomiz- 

 ing form like CyatJwcrmus the term would only be applied to the 

 joints of the last slender branches at the tips of the arms. In the 

 Camerata we will have one or more orders of fixed brachials, as the 

 calyx extends variously to the distichals, palmars, or post palmars. 

 To correspond with these terms and conform to the ideas of the fore- 

 going discussion, it will be advisable to designate the different per- 

 isomic plates as follows : 



Interradials, all plates interradially disposed in the calyx. 



Interbrachials, a general term for all plates between the rays above 

 the radials. 



Interdistichals, the plates between the first divisions of the ray. 



Inierpahners, those between the second divisions of the ray. 



Interambulacrals, the plates between the ambulacra. 



Let us now consider the anal plates, which take such an impor- 

 tant part in the phylogeny and classification of Palaeozoic Crinoids. 

 The term " anal plate " has been used by some writers indiscrimi- 

 nately for all interradial plates of the posterior area, while others 

 restrict it to the plates directly or indirectly connected with the anus. 

 We apply the term only to the latter plates, and only to those tak- 

 ing part in the dorsal cup. All others are plates of the anal tube or 

 the ventral sac. 



The anal plates in all Camerata, when present, occupy the median 

 line of the posterior area so as to divide the interbrachial plates into 

 two equal sets, and in rows containing an odd number splitting the 

 middle plate into two pieces, even in cases when no anal plate is in- 

 serted between the segments. The latter is the case in all Actlnocri- 

 nites, in which the first interbrachial row at the posterior side invari- 

 ably consists of two plates as against one in each of the others; but 

 all have an anal plate between the radials, and a second one in the 

 second interbrachial row. In the Batocrinites, and in all other Ac- 

 tinocrinidae and Glyptasteridae, there are two interbrachial pieces 

 above the first anal, which enclose a second anal j^iece. The Hexa- 




37(i PRO('i:RDrN(;s of thk academy of [1890. 



crinidae, like Cyathocrinus, have but one large anal ])late resting 

 upon the basals. In the Eucalyptocrinidae there are no anal plates 

 in the dorsal cup, and the five interradial areas are perfectly sym- 

 metrical. The same is the case in Dolatocrinus, Stereocrinus, Cen- 

 trocrinus, Allocrinus and Patelliocriniis ; while the typical Melo- 

 crinidae have an anal plate in one or more of the upper rows. 

 In the Rhodocrinidae the anal plates are in a similar condition as 

 in the Melocrinidae, their posterior area being undisturbed in some 

 of them, while in others a few anal plates are introduced ; but the 

 Rhodocrinidae have at all five sides a plate interposed between the 

 radials, which rests upon the basals. The Platy crinidae have no 

 special anal piece, but the middle plate of the first row at the poste- 

 rior side is considerably larger, and obviously served throughout 

 this group as anal plate. 



It appears from these observations that the distribution and posi- 

 tion of the anal plates varies considerably among the families, and 

 that in some of them they are absent altogether. As a general rule, 

 the anal plates are well represented in species with a strong tube or 

 a protruding lateral opening ; while in forms in which the anus is 

 central or comparatively small, as in the Eucalyptocrinidae, they 

 are either wanting or but feebly represented. The interposition of 

 the anus affected more or less the whole posterior area. In species 

 with a large anal tube, the increase in wudth thereby produced neces- 

 sitated the introduction of special anal plates ; while when the tube 

 was small, a mere enlargement of the regular interbrachial plates 

 sufficiently increased the width of the area. This shows that the 

 anal plates of the Camerata do not constitute a primary element, 

 but are supplementary pieces, which were introduced as the case 

 required. This is important as throwing light upon the anal plates 

 in the other groups. 



In the Fistulata the anals are the only plates interposed between 

 the rays. They consist of one or two pieces, or are unrepresented 

 altogether, and the ventral sac is supported by the radials. In spec- 

 ies with but one anal plate, this rests upon the posterior basal, 

 which is truncated for its reception, and hence is interradial in posi- 

 tion. When there are two plates, as in most of the Poteriocrinidae, 

 and in a few Cyathocrinidae, the second, which is actually the first 

 or lowest in point of position, is placed obliquely to the right of the 

 first, so as to encroach more or less upon the lower face of the right 

 posterior radial, its lower angle resting between the upper sloping 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



faces of adjoining basals, its upper face supporting the first plate of 

 the tube, which in some of these genera is partly enclosed in the 

 calyx. To understand the relations of this plate, it is very impor- 

 tant to note that throughout the various modifications which the 

 posterior side of the Fistulata undergoes in geological times, this 

 plate retains invariably its alternate arrangement with the basals. 

 The plate, therefore, was radially disposed from the beginning, and 

 always remained so. This shows that the widening of the anal area, 

 wliich took place in later fonns, owing to the increasing width of 

 the ventral sac, was effected by a displacement of the arm-bearing 

 plates. The oblique position, which the radially situated anal 

 plate holds toward the posterior basal and the other anal plate, and 

 this toward the first plate of the tube, gives to these plates a sort of 

 alternate arrangement, which is continuous throughout the whole 

 tube. 



The relations of the anal plates in the various groups of the Fis- 

 tulata were discussed by us at different times, and a comparison of 

 the literature will show that our views underwent some modification 

 in the course of time. ^ 



The subject was also discussed by Dr. P. H, Cai'penter in his 

 paper " On the Relations of Hybocrinus, Baerocrinus and Hyho- 

 cystites"'^ 



We tliink it unnecessary to give a review of all these ])apers, and 

 we can dispense with it more readily, as Mr. F. A. Bather, in an in- 

 teresting paper " On the British Fossil Crinoids,"^ has lately given 

 a full history of them. We, therefore, take up the question where 

 Ave left it in 1885. 



Mr. Bather, in the paper above cited, has advanced views re- 

 specting the origin of one of the anal plates, from which we regret 

 to be obliged to dissent. He agrees with us and Carpenter that the 

 radial anal plate, the so-called azygous piece, constitutes primarily 

 the lower portion of the right posterior radial, which in the earlier 

 forms occupies a position immediately below the radial ; but he dif- 

 fers from us essentially upon the origin of the other anal plate. He 

 seeks to prove that this plate " originated as a plate morphologi- 



1 1879, Revision, Pt. I, pp. 71 and 72; 1883, Amer. Jour. Sci., Vol XXVI, 

 pp. 365 to 377; 1885, Revision, Pt. Ill, Sect. I, pp. 11, 12 and 40; and 1886, 

 ibid., Sect. II, pp. 196 and 210. 



2 Quart. Journ. Geol. See. London, Vol. XXXVIII, pp. 398-312. 



3 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (6ih ser.). Vol. V, April, 1890, pp. 319-334. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



cally corresponding to an ordinary brachial," which gradually in 

 its palaeontological development passed down from above the radials 

 to the basals, and between the radials. To the former plate he gives 

 the name " radianal,^' which we think an excellent one, and we ac- 

 cept it as being more appropriate than azygons plate. To the latter 

 he applies the name " brachianal," a term which becomes meaning- 

 less if the plate proves to be an interradial. For this plate we re. 

 tain the name analplate, as we hold it to be the true homologue of 

 the anal plate in the Antedon larva, and the homologue oitl^e first 

 anal plate of Actinocrinus. 



In our diagrams we have marked this plate X, and we find it 

 convenient to refer to it as such in this paper. We apply the letter 

 R to the radials, and when these are compound, we distinguish the 

 lower, non-arm-bearing section as R'. 



To understand the relations of the anal plates, we must at first 

 direct attention to the structure of the radials of the earlier Fisiulata, 

 which in all Loiver Silurian genera, probably with the exception of 

 Ottaivacrinus, ^ differ essentially from those of the Upper Silurian 

 forms. It is very curious that in the former the radials in from one 

 to three of their rays are compound, i. e., constructed of two segments 

 or parts, which are closely united by a horizontal suture, and in the 

 organization of the Crinoid count as one plate. Compound radials 

 are found in the Heterocrinidae, Anomalocriuidae, Hybocrinidae, and 

 in the earliest Cyathocrinidae. In some of these families they are 

 restricted to the right posterior ray, in others one or two of the 

 other rays also may have compound radials. But we know of no 

 case in which the compound structure extends to all five rays, at 

 least two of the plates being always simple. Among the Hetero- 

 crinidae, as a rule, the right posterior and the right and left antero- 

 lateral radials are compound — exceptionally the anterior one in 

 ])lace of the left antero-lateral — while Anomalocrinus and Ohiocruius 

 have but two, and loerinus, Meroerinus, Hyhoerinus and Hoplocriniis 

 only one. It is further worthy of note that when there are several 

 compound radials, the corresponding parts are of nearly equal size; 

 while the segments vary considerably among themselves in the 



1 Carabocrimis, which also we had referred to tlie Fistulata, is pos-ibly a 

 Cystid. We were recently informed by Mr. Walter R. Billings that it may have 

 hydrospires. He was kind enough to send us carefully prepared diagrams of this 

 genus and of Hybocrimis,'^Q-^\r\Q^ the structure of the ventral disk, for which he 

 has our hearty thanks. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



different geuera. In Heterocrinus, Ohiocrinus, locrinns, Merocrmus, 

 Hybocrinus and Hybocystis, the lower portions are considerably larger 

 than the upper; in A)iomaloermus and Dendrocrlnits the two are of 

 nearly equal size; while in Edenocrinus (^Heteroermus) simplex the 

 ujjper ones are three to four times as large as the lower. 



Now, what does this gradual increase of the upper portions, and 

 the disappearance of compound plates in other rays than the poster- 

 ior, tell us? Does it not indicate that in these Crinoids there is a 

 gradual development from three to one compound plate, and from 

 the compound to the simple radial? It certainly looks like it. The 

 idea is further confirmed by the fact that true compound radials 

 do not exist among any of the later Fistulata, in which, as we shall 

 presently show, the lower portion of the right posterior radial, more 

 or less, serves as an anal plate. But what preceded the compound 

 radials? What else, but forms in which the arm-bearing portion was 

 still smaller, and, i)rimarily, those in which it was absent altogether, 

 that is to say, was as yet undeveloped. This, indeed, seems to have 

 been the structure of Baerocrinus. As we understand this genus, 

 it has three well developed radials, and two are in a transition state, 

 only their lower or non-arm-bearing segments being represented. 

 This is further corroborated by the fact that the non-arm-bearing 

 radials occur in the same rays as the compound radials of Anomalo- 

 crinus, for if we take the third plate of our diagram (PI. X, fig. 6) 

 to represent the posterior ray, the other non-arm-bearing plate must 

 represent the antero-lateral one. This would- make Baerocrinus the 

 ancestral form, lower in its development than either Anomalocrinvs, 

 Hophcrinns, or locrinus. 



We now pass to the genera in which the lower segment of the right 

 posterior radial serves as an anal plate. In all these forms, as may 

 be seen in Bather's diagrams, the four other radials are simple, and 

 in all of them the anal plate (X) is represented, and invariably rests 

 npon the basals. The size of the ventral sac had rapidly increased 

 at the close of the Lower Silurian, and the sloping upper faces of 

 the radials were insufficient to support it. This required certain 

 modifications in the structure of the dorsal cup. The posterior radi- 

 als, which theretofore had been in contact laterally, now separated, 

 the posterior basal increased its width, and the plate X was intro- 

 duced to fill the space between the radials. While these modifica- 

 tions were going on, the radianal, or lower segment of the radial, 

 retained its position between the upper sloping faces of two basals, 




•380 I'ROCEEDINCiS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



only changing its form enough to fit in between adjoining plates. 

 Later on, as the ventral sac grew still larger, and the brachials came 

 to occupy the entire upper face of the radials, leaving no surfaces for 

 an attachment of anal plates, the right ])osterior radial was gradu- 

 ally shifted to the I'ight, and finally attained a position directly 

 above the right postero-lateral basal, and obliquely above the radi- 

 anal. Toward the end of the Carboniferous, when the size of the 

 anal tube was again reduced to a minimum, both anal plates grad- 

 ually disappeared, and the five radials resumed their normal position. 



Mr. Bather assumes, as before stated, that the anal plate, the 

 plate X, is derived primitively from a brachial, which gradually in 

 geological times passed downward into the dorsal cup. He 

 regards (p. 329) "those forms as px'imitive in which the radianal is 

 more of a radial and less of an anal, in which it is not in an asym- 

 metrical position but corresponds to the other lower radial plates. 

 Such forms are locrinus, Heterocrinus, Ectenocrinus, Anomalocrinus 

 and Merocrimis. Now in all these forms X is supported by E, and 

 does not touch R'. Obviously then X is not derived from R', but orig- 

 inates above R, and on its left side. By parity of reasoning we assume 

 the next stage to be represented in such forms as Hybocrinus (?), 

 Ottaivacrinus, Dendrocrinus and Homocrinus since in them R' is 

 rather more asymmetrical. In these X has passed down from above 

 R, and now rests with its lower half between the right and left pos- 

 terior radials, being supported partly by R' and partly by the basal.^ 

 Carabocrimis, Botryoerinus, and similar forms are, as all acknowl- 

 edge, the next stages in the shifting of the radianal ; in these X has 

 sunk still lower into the dorsal cup, and is now entirely in a line 

 with the radials." " In Parisoerinufi and Euspirocrinus among 

 pinnuless forms, and in the Poteriocrinites, another change has taken 

 p)lace ; the radianal has passed through a revolution of 90°, and the 

 lowest plate of the ventral sac (t) has sunk down between R and X." 



Before we enquire into the merits of this argument, we must 

 ascertain whether the plates of the diflTerent genera which Bather 

 marked X are structurally alike, for any mistake in this regard, 

 naturally upsets the whole theory. The question is, is his plate X 

 in loerimts and Merocrimts which rests upon that marked by him R 

 or C, and that upon R' in Hybocrimis and Anomalocrinus, homolo- 

 gous with the plate oi Dendrocrinus, Homocrinus, etc. supported by 



1 The latter is not the case in Hybocrinus, in which there is no anal jilate 

 supported by the basal. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELl'III A. 381 



R'and ])artly by the basals, and lioinolou'ous with the \Aate of Poterio- 

 criiius which rests upon the basals and against the radianal ? Bather 

 did not discuss this question at all, notwithstanding we had expressed 

 different views respecting his plate X in locrinus and Merocrinus. 

 In both genera (in locrinus, as early as 1879, Kevision I, p. 65), we 

 called that plate a plate of the tube, and, so far as we know, never 

 made any statement from which he might have inferred that we 

 thought it represented the plate X in the other genera; yet Mr. 

 Bather quotes us in his diagrams as if we had done so in 1879. We 

 must also protest against his statement on p. 324. There, in sum- 

 marizing our position on the anal question, he says under locrinus: 

 " Radial growing larger at expense of Azygos, and here has 

 absorbed X" ; while the fact is we have alwa3's held, and have said 

 so, that this plate X was unrepresented in locrinus and was as yet 

 undeveloped. 



Instead of commencing, as Bather did, with the earliest form, we 

 prefer to begin with the simplest, and select as a starting point the 

 genus Cyathocrinus, which is well known to every palaeontologist. 

 CyuthoGrinus has simple radials and but one anal plate, and this, as 

 all writers agree, represents the plate X, and is the homologue of 

 the first anal of the Actinocrinidae. Like the anal plate of the lat- 

 ter, it rests upon the truncated upper face of the posterior basal and 

 between two radials, and supports generally three plates of the tube 

 (PI. X, fig. 4). The plate to the right sometimes rests against, or 

 rather upon, the left sloping upper face of the adjoining radial, almost 

 as in Poteriocriuus, but is here unsupported by a radianal. In Graph- 

 iocrinus also only the plate X is represented, but this is angular above, 

 and supports two plates t, of which neither one is connected with 

 the radials, but both are free plates. 



In the preceding genera all radials, including the right posterior, 

 are simple. In Dendrocrinus, however, the latter is compound. 

 The anal structure of Dendrocrinus is most instructive as forming 

 a sort of link between that of the earlier and later Palaeozoic Cri- 

 noids. J jQokmg at I)endroc7nm(s casei (PI. IX, fig. 12), it is obvious 

 that the plate X holds the same relation to the compound radial, as 

 X in Cyathocrinus to the simple one. It abuts against both seg- 

 ments of the plate, and is also supported by a truncate basal. In 

 both, the plate X is succeeded by three plates in the tube, but 

 in Dendrocrinus their arrangement is less regular, owing to the 

 asymmetry of the radials. The plate to the right is placed at a 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



higher level than the one to the left, and does not touch X, nor does 

 it touch the adjoining brachial, and is therefore a plate of the 

 tube ; while that to the left, which is laterally connected with the ad- 

 joining radial, actually forms a part of the dorsal cup. Both plates 

 rest by their lower faces upon the sloping upper sides of adjacent 

 radials, and each of them, as well as the middle plate — resting u})()n 

 the truncate upper face of X — supports a vertical row of plates in 

 the tube. These plates are not represented in Bather's diagram of 

 Dendrocrinus, but are shown by our figure. 



Now, if it is true that the plate which rests upon the left upi)er 

 sloping side of the compound radial, represents morphologically the 

 plate t in Poteriocrinus, and we think Bather will have to admit 

 this, what then is his plate X in locrinus and Merocrinusf This 

 plate, like t in Dendrocriinis, rests upon the left upper sloping face 

 of the compound radial. Like that it is a free plate of the ventral 

 tube, and like that it supports a vertical row of tube plates upon its 

 upper face. The only real difference between these plates in the two 

 genera is that the facet of the radial in Dendrocrinus is horse-shoe- 

 shaped, and that of locrinus straight. This structure was evidently 

 not understood by Bather, or he would never have called the radial 

 of locrinus an axillary plate. There would be just as much propriety 

 in calling the radials of an Actinocrinus axillary plates, for they 

 support in a similar manner upon their upper sloping faces the first 

 interbrachials. 



Admitting that the plate X of Bather in locrinus and Mero- 

 C7nn'us is a plate of the ventral tube, where is the anal plate? It 

 seems to us there cannot be the least doubt that in both of them, 

 and in most of the earlier Fistulata, the anal plate X is unrepre- 

 sented. Their radials are in contact laterally, and the tube does not 

 extend into the dorsal cup, but rests upon it. To satisfy ourselves 

 that the plate t forms no part of the dorsal cup, we have examined 

 and dissected a number of the most perfect specimens of locrinus 

 subcrassus, and can state positively that it is a free plate of the tube. 

 It is even perforated by lateral slits, such as occur frequently in the 

 plates of the tube, but never in the true anal plate. The tube is 

 club-shaped, narrow at the base, and its posterior side is composed of 

 large, heavy plates, which are formed into a conspicuous ridge. 

 From this narrow, arm-like ridge, as it appears from the outside of 

 the specimens, one gets no idea of the real nature of the tube, which 

 is quite deep and capacious. 




1890.] NATUKAL SCIENCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 383 



After detenu ining- the structure of Dendrocrinus and ^locrinns 

 the other genera are readily understood. Anomalocrinus is in a 

 similar condition to locrinus, but has two compound radials in place 

 of one. As in the case of locrinus the plate X is unrepresented. 

 Its tube, which is narrow, rests within a notch formed by the slop- 

 ing upper faces of the two ])Osterior radials, the lower plate touch- 

 ing the first costal. Almost the same structure we find again in 

 Heterocrinus and Ectenocrinus with three compound radials, and in 

 Hybocrinus with but one. We cannot understand how Bather on 

 p. 330 of his paper could conclude from the structure of Ecteno- 

 crinus, which he has regarded as one of the most " primitive forms," 

 that X " originated as a plate morphologically corresponding to an 

 ordinary brachial." His own diagram shows that his plate X in 

 Ectenocrinus is placed symmetrically between the two posterior 

 radials, resting as much on the one plate as ou the other. In his 

 diagram of Heterocrinus heUevillensis the plate is not correctly rep- 

 resented. A comparison with Walter Billings' figures (Trans. Ot- 

 tawa Field Naturalist's Club, 1883), and ours (PI. X, fig. 8), shows 

 that it resembles in form and position that oi Ectenocrinus, (fig. 9). 

 Like that it rests upon the sloping upper faces of both posterior 

 radials, and not on the plate to the right only. The plate in Hybo- 

 crinus occupies almost the same position, and we confess we fail to 

 see how the structure of either of these genera helps to prove that 

 the plate is a modified brachial. We think the evidence derived 

 from them shows conclusively that it is an interradial plate. If the 

 ventral sac represented a modified arm, we should like to know to 

 which ray the plate in Heterocrinus and Ectenoei'inus belongs, 

 whether to the right or to the left? In Dendrocrinus casei, in which 

 the case is somewhat complicated, we would have three modified 

 arms, one to the right, one to the left, and one supported by the 

 plate X. Dendrocrinus caduceus (PI. X, fig. 11) would have vari- 

 ously two or three such arms, two resting upon the upper sloping 

 faces of adjoining radials, and both supported by the plate X. Still 

 more inconceivable would be the case of Hybocrinus in which the 

 so-called '" brachianal" supports numerous small, irregularly ar- 

 ranged pieces forming a short protuberance. 



In alluding to the anal structure of the Camerata, it has been 

 pointed out that in the Actinocrinidae the first anal plate rests be- 

 tween the radials, contrary to the Melocrinidae, in which the lowest 

 anal plate rests within the second row of interradial plates, and all 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



the radials are in lateral contact. The anal plate of Actinocrimis 

 thus occupies a position toward the radials similar to that of the 

 plate X in Cyathocrlnus, and the anal plate of Melocrinus to that 

 of the plate t (X of Bather) in Hyhocrinus. "We have not the least 

 doubt that the plates of the two former genera are homologous with 

 one another, and also those of the two latter among themselves, but 

 we go no further. We believe that in Melocrinus and Hyhocrinus 

 the plate X is unrepresented, and the structural changes that took 

 place afterwards in Actinocrinus and Cyaihocrintis ^vere not effected 

 by a sinking of the tube, but by the introduction of an additional 

 plate. 



We now return to Dendrocrinus, and take up those forms in 

 which the lower section of the posterior radial turns into a supple- 

 mentary anal piece. The first step in this direction is shown by 

 Homocrinus, Botryocrinus, Oticocrinus and JBarycrimis, in all of which 

 the upper or arm-bearing portion of the radial has shifted slightly to 

 the right, and is connected with the lower by an oblique suture. 

 Here the plate X is comparatively large, occupying the whole space 

 between the two posterior radials, and as no part of the ventral tube, 

 as yet, is introduced into the dorsal cup, the plate R' is physiologi- 

 cally and morphologically a radial, and not an anal plate. 



Bather explains the evolution that took place in these forms by 

 " the shifting of the radianal," and that " X has sunk still lower into 

 the dorsal cup and is now on a line with the radials," in which we 

 cannot agree with him. We have already pointed out that the 

 radianal throughout this group retains the same position which it 

 held when constituting a part of the radial. It always rests with its 

 lower angle between the two basals, and only changes its outlines so 

 as to conform to the adjacent plates. The widening of the anal area 

 was effected by the shifting of the radials, which in Dendrocrinus 

 and Homocrinus opened out for the insertion of the plate X, and 

 by the increase in width which took place in the posterior basal 

 simultaneously. There was no shifting of the radianal, nor any 

 sinking of the plate X, but the latter retained the position which it 

 held in Dendrocrinus. 



In Parisocrinus, Atelestocrinus, Enspirocrinus, and in most of the 

 Poteriocrinidae, the width of the anal area is increased again. In 

 these genera, the arm-bearing section of the right posterior radial 

 moved away from the lower section so as to be placed almost 

 directly upon the right postero-lateral basal, and a new plate was in- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIIIA. 385 



troduced between the radial and the plate X, supported by the radi- 

 anal — the former R'. 



The derivation of the Poteriocrinidae, etc. was explained by Bather 

 as follows : " in the Poteriocrinites another change has taken place; 

 the radianal has passed through a revolution of 90°, and the loAvest 

 plate of the ventral sac (t) has sunk down between R and X." We 

 are somewhat in doubt what Mr. Bather means by " revolution of 

 90°," but suppose it refers to the change in the position of the radi- 

 anal toward the right posterior radial. If he means that here the 

 radial moved away from the radianal, we agree with him ; but if it 

 implies the radianal shifted away from beneath the radial, we can- 

 not follow him, for that plate, as already stated, retains its position 

 throughout the different phases of its development, and only under- 

 goes modifications in size and form, until it disappears entirely. 

 That the lower part of the tube "sunk down between R and X" ap- 

 pears to us doubtful. It is more probable that a new plate was in- 

 troduced beneath the other, a sort of third anal, and this is partly 

 confirmed by the fact that the plate is imperforate. 



This explains the anal structure of all Poteriocrinidae except that 

 of Ulocrimis, Graphiocrinus, Ceriocrlnus and Erisocriiius, which we 

 regard as transition forms toward Eacrinus. The ventral tube, 

 which through these forms dwindles down again to a short cone, no 

 longer necessitated the same representation in the dorsal cup, and as 

 the anal plates gradually diappeared, the posterior radials assumed a 

 symmetrical position. In the new genus Ulocrinus of S. A. Miller 

 the plate X ceased to be represented, and its place was taken by the 

 radianal ; while in Graphiocrinus and Ceriocrinus only the plate X 

 is represented. In Graphiocrinus, in which the ventral tube is quite 

 capacious, the plate X is comparatively large ; while in Ceriocrinus, 

 with a small tube, it is reduced to a very narrow piece, which rests 

 upon the greatly extended posterior basal. In Erisocriiius, Stemma- 

 tocrinns and Encrinus the latter plate also disappeared, and the 

 tube came to rest upon the edges of the radials, where it started in 

 Hyhocriims, Ectenocrinus and allied forms. 



From the above considerations it aj)pears to us that Bather's the- 

 ory respecting the " brachianal" is based upon a misinterpretation 

 of the plates. If it were true that the plate resting to the left of the 

 radial of locrinus, passed in later forms down to thebasals, it would 

 mean nothing less than a partial revolution of the entire tube to the 

 left. Consulting the specimens it will be found that in this genus 

 26 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



and in the Fistiilata generally, the plate alluded to is succeeded by 

 a vertical row of plates in the tube, and that the anal plate (X), 

 where it exists, is followed by another row of plates, arranged in the 

 same way, and placed aside of the first row. Moreover, how can 

 that plate on the separation of the radials sink to the bottom of the 

 dorsal cup, when the anterior side of the tube rests upon the ventral 

 disk ? It would be practically impossible unless this side was low- 

 ered also. Is not the evolution that here took place more reason- 

 ably explained if we assume that on the separation of the radials 

 the space between them was filled by an additional plate ? 



We hold that the Fistulata have but one true anal plate — the 

 plate X — and that the radianal is a sort of supplementary radial, 

 which in some genera performed the functions of an anal plate. 

 The anal plate of the Camerata, when present, as before stated, in- 

 variably occupies the middle line of the posterior area, so as to sep- 

 arate the interbrachial plates into two equal divisions, even split- 

 ting the plates in rows in which there is an uneven number. Under 

 such circumstances it seems unreasonable to assume that the plate 

 X is a brachial, and the anal tube a modified arm. This suggestion 

 was made at first by us, but given up in 1883, finding it not sus- 

 tained by the phylogeny of the group. If it was a modified arm, the 

 arm structure should be indicated in Hybocrinus, one of the earliest 

 known Crinoids ; but, unfortunately for Bather's theory, the ventral 

 sac in this genus consists of only a small protuberance, composed of 

 irregularly arranged pieces. Nor do we find anything among Cys- 

 tids to support this hypothesis, and certainly not among Blastoids. 

 The theory is based wholly on a superficial resemblance between the 

 tube and arm-plntes in locriniis, and a misconception of the right 

 posterior radial which Bather took to be an axillary plate. But 

 even this apparent resemblance fades away on examining the tube 

 with the arms removed and the outer wings of the tube visible. 



Bather made no comparison with the anal i)lates of the Camerata. 

 He obviously regarded them as morphologically distinct from those 

 of the Fistulata, for on p. 319 he says : " it may be pointed out that, 

 as interradials do not enter into the composition of the dorsal cup 

 in any Fistulata, none of these plates can well be homologues of in- 

 terradials : in many of the Camerata actual interradials are present 

 in the anal area, but in the Fistulata at least we must look else- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



where for the origin of the so-called ' anal' plates." To this we re- 

 ply, there are " interradial plates" in the Fistulata as well as in the 

 Camerata, but they are in the former interambulacral and not in- 

 terbrachial, owing to the fact that the arms are free from the radi- 

 als. All plates between the rays, those between the ambulacra, and 

 all the plates of the ventral sac, those supporting it, and the plates 

 of the anal tube, are parts of the same element. 



The symmetry of the Crinoids, as a rule, is bilateral, and the anal 

 area occupies the median axis. The asymmetry, which occurs in so 

 many Fistulata and certain Ichthyocrinidae, is caused by irregu- 

 larities in the radials. Wherever these have attained a regular form, 

 the plate X takes its median position, and the plates of the ventral 

 tube also are arranged on a strictly bilateral plan. Whether the 

 synmietrical form, as represented in tlie Silurian Cyathocrinidae, was 

 evolved from the asymmetrical form, we are unable to ascertain. It 

 is possible that the two had a common symmetrical ancestor, but it 

 seems to us more probable that all were at first asymmetrical, and 

 that the lower section of the posterior radial became early resorbed 

 in some cases. Against the former theory it may be said that in the 

 Lower Silurian Fistulata, so far as known without exception, the 

 right posterior radial is compound, and that we find the symmetrical 

 form along with the other in the same families ; against the latter, 

 that the symmetrical form is already well represented in the Upper 

 Silurian. 



We have made no reference to the Calceocrinidae, as we have not 

 at present the material to study the older forms, but we are quite 

 certain that their structure is in conformity with that of the other 

 Fistulata. The statement, that " Castrocrinus shows a series of anal 

 plates supported by the first costal of the left posterior radius, which 

 is exactly comparable to the arm-bearing costal of the right pos- 

 terior radius," leads us to suspect that there is also here a misinter- 

 pretation of the plates. 



In the Ichthyocrinidae the anal structure resembles that of the 

 Fistulata. In some ot them both anal plates are represented, 

 in others only the plate X ; while in the genus Ichthyocrinus, both 

 plates are absent. The following table shows the distribution of the 

 anal plates in the different genera, and the representation of inter- 

 brachial plates. 




388 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



In Taxocrinus and Onychocrinns, the plate X is followed by a 

 vertical row of additional pieces forming a lateral tube ; in Calpio- 

 crinus by one or two large plates longitudinally arranged, resting 

 between the radials ; in Forbesiocrinns by a great number of large 

 interbrachial plates ; in Mespilocrinus by one plate only. The anal 

 area of Sagenocrinus is similar to that of Forbesioerinus, that of Le- 

 canocrinus and Pycnosaccus like that of Mespilocrinus, the pres- 

 ence of the radianal excepted ; and Gnorimocrinus in its anal struc- 

 ture resembles closely Taxocrinus, but the tube of the former rests 

 obliquely, and not vertically, upon the plate X, and partly upon the 

 radianal. 



There has been considerable doubt as to the row of plates in the 

 anal interradius of Omjchocrimis and Taxocrinus, whether they are in- 

 corporated into the calyx, as the anal plates of Reteocrinus, or form a 

 free tube. We can now state from actual observation that the latter 

 is the case, at least in some species. At the special request of Dr. 

 Carpenter, we dissected some fine specimens, and in Onychocrinus 

 exculptus, 0. ulrichi, and in a large species of Taxocrinus, succeeded 

 in laying bare the tube at all sides. The posterior side consists 

 of a vertical series of eight or nine large subquadrangular plates, 

 loosely connected, and sometimes separated by very minute pieces. 

 The anterior side is composed of a large number of quite small per- 

 isomic plates, forming a sort of pouch, wider at the proximal end. 

 In all of those species, the tube at its anterior side leans considerably 

 to the right, and we suggest from this structure that both genera 

 were derived from the asymmetrical Gnorimocrinus, which occurs in 

 the Upper Silurian contemporaneously. The tube at its distal end 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIirLADELPIIIA. -389 



is rounded, composed of irregular pieces, pierced by a small aperture, 

 which opens out somewhat anteriorly and evidently served as anus. 

 The structure indicates clearly, that this tube is quite different from 

 the solid conical protuberance which occurs in the recent genus. 

 Tlmuviatocrinus, with which it has been compared. The latter we 

 regard as a most remarkable instance of atavism. The projection 

 consists of a vertical row of fourteen or more j)lates rising to the 

 height of the anal tube, placed in front of it. It recalls the ventral 

 sac of the Fistulata, among which also apparently the anus some- 

 times is placed in front of the tube. In Goeliocrimis with a balloon- 

 shaped sac, which is sometimes found detached so it can be examined 

 from all sides, we have searched in vain for an opening, and we have 

 no doubt that in this genus, and probably in many others, the anus 

 was located near the mouth as in Thaumatocrinus. 



No other genus among the Crinoids has so wide a range, and un- 

 dergoes so few modifications as Ichthyocrinns. We find it already 

 in the Lower Silurian, and it lived through to the time of the Upper 

 Coal Measures, and was quite probably the ancestor of the Apiocri- 

 nidae, Pentacrinidae and Comatulidae of our present seas. 



There are in the paper of Mr. Bather several inaccurate references 

 to our previous writings, to some of which we are compelled to di- 

 rect attention, as much as we regret it, else it would appear that we 

 had actually made such inconsistent and irrational statements. 



On p. 322, he says that in our paper on Hybocrinus, Hoplocrinus 

 and Baerocrinus, we considered the " Azygos plate to be an inde- 

 pendent morphological element of the dorsal cup, not a modified 

 radial," and on p. 323, he alludes to our " previous view that the 

 Azygos plate was a primitive fundamental element of the dorsal 

 cup." We know of no passage in that paper from which Bather 

 would be entitled to draw any such inferences. As he lays so much 

 stress upon this in his criticism, he should have quoted the exact 

 language, and give the page where it occurs. 



On p. 324, in summing up the position which we held in 1886, he 

 makes the following astonishing statement: 



"(1.) Azygos plate (Az) a primitive element of the dorsal cup. 



(2.) Anal (x) and right posterior radial derived from Azj^gos 

 plate. 



(3.) Anal of Antedon not homologous with any plate of the 

 Fistulata, but an embryonic interradial." 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



A careful examination of both sections of Pt. Ill of the Revision, 

 will show nothing to justify Bather in assuming that we regarded 

 the Azygos as a " primitive element." We only stated on p. 11 : 

 " the lower segments (of the compound radials) are probably embr)'-- 

 onic plates, which were resorbed by the upper segments." We ad- 

 mit that the expression ''resorbed by " was badly chosen, we should 

 have stated : were resorbed and occupied by the upper segments, but 

 that is not the issue here. 



Bather's second statement is equally inaccurate. If he had said 

 that we regarded the anal plate (X) and right posterior radial as 

 derived from the undivided Azygos in Baerocrinus, he would have ex- 

 pressed our views. 



His third statement is more faulty yet. To agree with Pt. Ill of 

 the Revision it should be amended as follows : Anal plate oi Ante- 

 don larva homologous with plate X of the Fistulata, and interradial 

 in position. At that time we thought it even possible, and said so on 

 pp. 39 and 40, that the anal plate of Antedon was developed from 

 an " Azygos plate," and that : " Possibly the undivided Azygos plate, 

 as represented in Baerocrinus, has been overlooked in the larva." 

 We stated further on the same page " that at least in Cyathocrinus 

 the latter (Azygos) plate was entirely removed, and the anal plate 

 took the position of that in the larva of Antedon," thus showing con- 

 clusively that we regarded the two plates as structurally identical. 



Another incorrect statement we find on p. 323. There Bather 

 asserts that we stated " the ' anal' oi Antedon\n.YWix is an interradial 

 with special function, while the Azygos plate is as much radial as 

 interradial." The fact is we said the Azygos plate " in Baerocrinus,^^ 

 and not the Azygos generally, is as much radial as interradial. In a 

 supplementary note to his paper, in the June number of the Annals, 

 on p. 486, he alludes to this omission, stating that he left out the 

 words purposely, " since they (we) in the very next sentence imply 

 that Baerocrinus is an ancestral stage," and " that a simple and exact 

 quotation would have tended to confuse the issues." This is taking 

 altogether too great liberty with the text. We stated correctly 

 that the " Azygos of Baerocrinus is neither radial nor interradial," 

 for it rests between two radials and alternates with the basals ; but 

 to say the same thing of Homocrinus, Dendrocrinus, etc. would be 

 ridiculous. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCKS OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



PLATE IX. 



Fig. 1. Ventral disk of Cyathocrinus alutaceus Angl. 



The orals in lateral contact, and covering nearly the whole 



ventral surface. Refigured from the type specimen in the 



Zool. Riks Muset at Stockholm (Iconogr. Crin. Suec. PI. 



XXIII, fig. 11). 

 Figs. 2 and 3. Ventral disk of Cyathocrinus laevis Angl. 



Fig. 2, specimen in which the orals are partly resorbed. 



Fig. 3, another specimen, in which the orals are replaced 



by large covering pieces. 



From the same Museum (Iconogr. PI. XXVI figs. 2 and 3b). 

 Figs. 4 and 5. Ventral disk of Euspirocrinus spiralis Angl. 



The orals replaced by large ambulacral plates uniting in 



the center. 



(Same Museum, Iconogr., PI. IV, figs. 7d and 7e). 

 Fig. 6. Ventral aspect of a specimen of Cyathocrinus 



gilesi W. and Sp. 



The " consolidating plates " in part covered by small per- 



isomic pieces ; the ambulacra not preserved. 

 (Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer). 

 Fig 7. Ventral disk of Cyathocrinus brevisacculus W. 



and Sp. (n. spec). 



Showing the " madreporite." The oral center closed by 



the fused covering and side pieces ; the " consolidating 



plates " partly exposed. 

 (Same collection). 

 Fig. 8. Ventral disk of Cyathocrinus nodosus W. and Sp. 



(n. spec). 



Showing the " madreporite," the ambulacral and interam- 



bulacral plates. 

 (Same collection). 

 Fig. 9. Ventral aspect of a very y^oung specimen of Cy'a- 



THOCRINUS brevisacculus. 



The orals partly intact. 

 (Same collection). 

 Fig. 10. Ventral aspect of the type of Marsupiocrinus de- 

 PRESsus Angl. 



Specimen in the Zool. Riks Muset at Stockholm (Icono- 

 graph. PI. X, fig. 16). 




892 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Fig. 11. Inner floor of the tegmen in Physetocrinus. 



Showing the cavernous pits and passages. The braces rep- 

 resent the thickened interradial portions, which form the 

 galleries for the reception of the ambulacr^l skeleton. 

 (Collection of "Wachsmuth and Springer.) 

 Fig. 12. Posterior or anal side of Dendrocrinus casei Meek. 

 From a specimen in the collection of Wachsmuth and 

 Springer. 



(All figures are enlarged two diameters, except fig. 9 

 which is enlarged four times, and fig. 11 which is but one- 

 half larger). 



PLATE X. 



Fig. 1. Ventral disk of Cy'athocrinus harrodi W. and Sp. 

 Showing the structure of the ambulacra, and the ventral 

 sac to its full length. 



(Collection of Wachsmuth and Springer). 

 Figs. 2 and 3. Cyathocrinus iowensis 0. and Shum. 



Fig. 2. Specimen in which only the " consolidating plates " 



are in, situ. 

 Fig. 3. Another specimen, in which the " consolidating 

 plates " are covered over by ambulacral and inter- 

 ambulacral plates ; the orals are partly resorbed. 

 (Same collection). 

 Fig. 4. Cyathocrinus longimanus Angl. 



Showing the arrangement of plates in the tube. (After 

 Angl.). 

 Figs. 5a, b. Iocrinus sub-crassus Meek and Worthen. 



a, posterior aspect ; b, portion of the ventral tube enlarged. 

 Figs. 6 to 14. Diagrams showing the relations of the anal 

 plates to surrounding parts. 



Fig. 6, in Baerocrinus ; fig. 7, Hyhocrlnus ; fig. 8, Het- 

 erocrinus hellevillensis ; fig. 9, Ectenoerbms simplex ; fig. 

 10, Anomalocrinus ', fig. 11, Dendrocrinus caduceus; fig. 

 12, Poteriocrinus ; fig. 13, Ceriocrinus ; fig. 14, Ulocrinus. 



Explanation of Lettering. 

 R. Radial. 



R'. Lower half of a compound Radial. 

 R''. The latter assuming anal functions=Radianal. 

 X. The true anal plate. 

 t. Plates of the ventral tube. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



THE EOCENE MOLLUSCA OF THE STATE OF TEXAS. 

 BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The following list embraces, so far as I know, all the Eocene Mol- 

 liisca that have thus far been noted to occur in the Gulf deposits of 

 the State of Texas. For my data I have used the type series of Gabb 

 and Conrad, the major portion of which is in the possession of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, the extensive collection 

 of the State Geological Survey, and minor collections which have from 

 time to time reached the Academy and been reported upon in 

 its publications. The collections of the State Geological Survey 

 (for the use of which I am indebted to the Director, Mr. E. T. 

 Dumble, and to Dr. R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., the geologist of the Ter- 

 tiary areas of the State) are by far the most extensive, and they 

 serve to definitely locate the formations whence the fossils were ob- 

 tained in their true position in the geological scale. Of some 145, 

 species here enumerated (including a few doubtfully determined 

 forms) about 61 (or upwards of 40 per cent.) are also members of 

 the Claiborne fauna of Alabama ; these I have indicated by prefix- 

 ing an asterisk. A few others occur in some of the older deposits 

 of Alabama, while a very few are members of the Mississippi (newer) 

 fauna. The recurrence of a large number of the species in various 

 counties and localities indicates that the horizon is a common one, 

 namely : the Claibornian, or typical Middle Eocene of the Gulf slope, 

 the equivalent of the Calcaire Grossier of the Paris Basin. 



The principal localities whence the fossils were obtained are : Cher- 

 okee Co., near Alto and McBee's School ; Palestine, in Anderson Co. ; 

 Robertson Co., near Wheelock ; Milam Bluff in Milam Co. ; Burleson 

 Shell Bluff in Burleson Co. ; Smithville, Devil's Eye, Bombshell 

 Blufi'and "Camp Disaster," in Bastrop Co. ; Caldwell Co.; Atas- 

 cosa Co. ; Laredo, in Webb Co. ; and Stations 1-5 on the Rio 

 Grande River, included between Carrizo and " Cardita Bluff," in 

 the northwestern corner of Webb Co. 



In my references to Conrad's descriptions I have intentionally 

 referred in some cases to the first edition of the " Fossil Shells of the 

 Tertiary Formations" (abridged F. S. T.), and in others by prefer- 

 ence to the second edition, where many of the forms are more com- 

 pletely diagnosed or illustrated than in the original edition. 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



CEPHALOPODA. 



Belosepia ungula, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci., 2d Ser., iv, p. 376. 



Wheelock, Smitliville. 



Nautilus sj). ? 



Milam Bluff, Brazos R. 



GASTEROPODA. 



* Conus sauridens, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 38. 



f Gonus gyratus Morton. — Org. Rem. Cret. Group, p. 49 (from a 

 cast.) 



Devil's Eye ; San Antonio F. ; Smith ville ; Caldwell. 



Fleurotoma alveata, Conr. 



f P. persa, Whitfield.— A. J. Conch., I, p. 262. 



P. capax, Whitf. A. J, Conch., 1, p. 261, Alabama. 



* P. denticula, Basterot. Descrip. Geol. Bass. Ter. Sud-ouest de la France, 1825, 

 p. 63. 



P. nodo-carinata, Gabb (in part.) 



» P. (Moniliopsis) elaborata, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 52. 



P. cancellata, H. C. Lea. — A. J. Science. XL, p. 98. 



9 Turris retifera, Gabb. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 

 IV, p. 379. 



Wheelock. 



P. platysoma, Heilpr. Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1880, p. 150. 



Atascosa Co. 



P. Tuomeyi, Aldrich. Bulletin Geol. Survey Alabama, 1, p. 31. 



Devil's Eye. 



Drillia Texana, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 143. 

 Wheelock. 



* Surcula Desnoyersii, Lea. Contrib., p. 135. 



Smithville. 



S. Gabbii, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1. p. 142. 



Smithville, San Antonio F. 



S. Kelloggii, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 379. 



Wheelock. 



* S. lintea, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 142. 



S. Moorei, (iabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser. IV, p. 379. 



Smithville, Wheelock. 



■•■■ S. nodo-carinata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 379. 



Devil's Eye, Wheelock. 



S. Texana, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 379. 

 Turris Moorei, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 378. 



Smithville, Caldwell. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



Exilia pergraoilis, Conr. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pliila., 2d ser., IV, p. 291, 

 Coclilespira engonata, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 142. 



Tnrrif< crldata, Gabb (iion Conrad), Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 2d ser., IV, p. 378. 



Caldwell. 



C. bella, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 210. 



Cordiera Texana. Conr. 

 Smithville, Ala. 



Eucheilodon reticulata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p, .380. 



? Scoh'uiella {!) la'viplicata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 2d ser., IV, p. 380 (imperfect specimen). 

 Wheelock ; Caldwell. 



Scobinella crassiplicata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 2d ser., IV, p. 380. 

 Wheelock. 



* Murex Vanuxemi Conr. A. J. Conch. 1, p. 210. 



Smithville. 



■? M. (Odontopolys) compsorhytis, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 2d ser., IV, 

 p. .377. 



Wheelock. 



I have seen no specimen of this poorly figured species, and am 

 unable to pronounce upon its generic position. 



» Kostellaria (Calyptrophorus) velata, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. .38. 



Rostellaria staminea, Conr. — Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VII, 

 p. 260. 



B. Lamarckii, Lea. — Contrib., p. 158. Et ead. R. ehurnea f Conr. 



Near Alto. 



Persona (Distorsio) septemdentata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 

 IV, p. .380. 



Devil's Eye ; Caldwell ; Wheelock ; Lee. 



Clavella Penrosei Heilpr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 405. 



Station 2. 



Clavella ? enterogramma (iabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 378, 

 as Neptunea. Aldrich, Bulletin Geol. Survey, Alabama, 1, p. 24. 



Alabama. 



* Fusus salebrosus, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed. p. 56. ( Ttirrispira.) 



Smithville. 



« F. trabeatus, Conr. F. S. T., 2ded., p. 53 {Levi/usus) . 



F. bicarinatus, Lea. — Contrib. p. 146. 

 Caldwell ; San Antonio F. 



F. (Strepsidura T) MarnocM Heilpr. Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1880, p. 151. 



Atascosa Co. 



Fusas pagodaeformis, Heilpr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 375. 



Smithville. 



Fusus Mortoniopsis, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 377. 



Wheelock ; Caldwell. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



» T Strepsidura (Muricidea?) bella, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p 56. 

 Fastis crebrissimus, Lea. — Contrib., p. 147. 

 Sniithville. 



«• ? Bulbifusns inauratus, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 53. 



Fusus Fittonii, Lea. — Contrib., p. 150. 



F. parvus, Lea. — Contrib., p. 151. 



F. minor, Lea. — Contrib., p. 151. 



Alum Creek Bluff. 



Only a fragment, which shows a partial costation ; in this char- 

 acter it agrees more closely with the B. ficulneus of Lamarck, which 

 the species may prove to be. 



Latirus (Cordiera) Moorei, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 382. 

 Wheelock ; Caldwell. 



■? L. (Cordiera) Texana, Conr. 



Specimen in INIuseum — description ? 



f Cordiera gracilis of Smithsonian Check List. 



This species differs from the above in the prominence of its re- 

 volving lines ; the type is, however, founded on a single imperfect 

 specimen, which scarcely permits of characterization. 



Fusimitra polita, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., 2d ser., IV, p. 382, as J^as- 

 ciolaria. 



Caldwell 



Differs from Mitra minima, of Lea (Contr. p. 168) in being much 

 more elevated and slender. 



F. exilis, Gabb. Jour. Acad, Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 383. 



Wheelock. 



Mitra sp ? 



Devil's Eye. 



■•■■ Fusimitra lineata, Lea. Contrib., p. 168. 

 Wheelock. 



Lapparia dumosa, Conr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, VII, p. 260. 



Lapparia Mooreana, Gabb. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d 

 ser., IV, p. 383. 



Smithville ; Caldwell ; Wheelock ; Mississippi. 



This species is distinct from Lapparia pactilis, Conr., from Clai- 

 borne, Ala. 



Caricella reticulata, Aldrich. Journ. Cincinnati Soc. Nat. History, July, 1885. 



Smithville, Ala. 



Volutilithes petrosa, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 41. 



Voluta Vanuxe^ni, Lea. — Contrib., p. 173. 



V. impressa, Conr. — A. J. Conch., 1, p. 144. 



V. indenta, Conr. — A. J. Conch., 1, p. 144. 



F. symmetrica, Conr. — Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VII, p. 260. 



V. dumosa, Conr. — Wailes' Geol, Kept. Mississippi, pi. XVI, 

 fig. 1. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



Devil's Eye ; Alum Creek B.; San Antonio F. ; Smithville ; Lee 

 Co.; Miss. 



* V. Sayana, Com-. P. S. T., 2d cil., p. 11. 



Voluta Defrtmeii, Lea. — Contr., p. 17L 

 V. gracilis, Lea. — Contr., p. 172. 

 Well at Palestine, Anderson Co. 



V. precursor, Dall. Trans. Wagner Free Ins. Science, Phila., Ill, p. 84. 



Wheelock. 



* Marginella semen, Lea. Contr., p. 178. 



Marquiella (Erato) seminoides, Gabb. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 PlnW2dser., IV, p. 383. 



Oliva minima, Lea. — Contr. p. 184. 



Wheelock ; Caldwell. 



I see no character by which to separate 31. seminoides from M. 

 semen. The species is not, as Conrad assumed, the young of M. lar- 

 vata. 

 Cancellaria (Admete ■?) ellapsa, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 212. 



* Cancellaria tortiplica, Conr. A. J. Conch., l,p. 145. 



Smithville. 



This species is probably identical with Brander's C. (Buccimim) 

 evulsa, from the Barton (Upper Eocene) deposits of England ( C. 

 evulsa, Sowerby — Min. Conch., IV, p. 84. — See my "Contributions 

 to the Tertiary Geology and Palaeontology of the United States," p. 

 93, 1884.) 



C. impressa, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 145. 



Smithville; Alabama. 



* C. plicata, Lea. Contr., p. 139. 



Cancellaria liraia, Conr., A. J. Conch., 1. p. 145. 



Caldwell. 



The occurrence of this species in Texas rests on Gabb's identifica- 

 tion ; his label still remains in the Academy collection, but the spec- 

 imen belonging to it is lost. The same is true of the species follow- 

 ing- 



* C. gemmata, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 144. 



Cancellaria Babylonica, Lea. — Contr.. p. 138. 

 Caldwell. 



» Oliva hombylis, Conr. F. S. T.. 2d ed., p. 42. 



Oliva constricta, Lea. — Contr., p. 182. 

 Caldwell. 



■« ■? 0. gracilis, Lea. Contr., p. 182. 



I suspect that this is the young of Oliva Alahamensis of Conrad, 

 F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 41. 



* Olivula staminea, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 25 as Ancillaria. 



Smithville. 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. ; 



0. punctulifera, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., lY, p. 381. 



Wheelock. ' 



Also at Claiborne, Ala., according to Gabb. 



? 0. Texana, Conr. A. J. Conch., 1, p. 143, as Tortoliva. 



I liave seen no specimen of this species, and am in doubt as to its 

 true position. 



Monoptygma crassiplioa, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser. lY, p. 384, \ 



from Conrad's Mss. I 



Wheelock. j 



Ancillaria ancillops, Ileilpr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 406. ' 



Smithville ; Alum Creek B. | 



Pseudoliva carinata, (iabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 381, from j 



Conrad's Mss. I 



San Antonio F. ; Caldwell ; Wheelock. | 



P. fusiformis, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., lY, p. 381 from Conrad's ^ 



Mss. ... ' 



Pseudoliva flliformis f Conr., of Smithsonian Check List. i 



Smithville ; Wheelock. 



* P. sulcata. Lea. Contr., p. 163, as Monpceros. 



Pseudoliva linosa. Gabb. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., | 



IV, p. 381, from Conrad's Mss. i 



* P. venusta, Cour. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 37. 1 



Monoceros pijrnloides. Lea. — Contr., p. 161. | 



M. fusiformis, Lea. — Contr., p. 162. j 



Station 3 ; White Marl B. ' j 



P. perspectiva, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., lY, p. 381, from Con- 

 rad's i\Iss. .... I 



Gastridium vetustwn, Conr., in Wailes' Rept. Geol. Mississippi, 

 pi. 17, fig. 4. , 



Smithville ; Mississippi. 



* Lacinia alveata, Conr. A. J. Science, XXIII, p. 344. 



Melongena alveata, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 37. 

 Pyrula Smithii, Lea. — Contr., p. 155. 



* Euthria (Laevibuccinum) prorsum. Conr. F. S. T.. 1st ed., p. 45. 



Buccinanops jvorsum, D'Orb., Prodrome, II, p. 369. 



Station 2. . ; 



« Terebra venusta. Lea. Contr., p. 167. 

 Terebra perlata, Conr. 

 Smithville. ( 



T. plicifera, Ileilpr. Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1880, p. 151. I 



* F. polygyra, Conr. 



Labelled specimen. — Description? 



* Terebrifusus amoenus, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 45. 



Terebra gracilis. Lea. — Contr. p. 166. j 



Buccinano'ps avuenum, D'Orb., Prodrome, II, p. 369. \ 



Terebra multiplicata. H. C. Lea. — A. J. Science, XL, p. 101. 

 Smithville. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



This genus or group, of whose exact position I am ignorant, re- 

 calls both Bucclwmi and Terehra ; it is seemingly closely related to, 

 if not identical with, Genea of Bellardi (3IolluscJu Terr-eni Terziari 

 del Piemonte, 1873, part 1, p. 205,) 

 Buccitriton Texamim. Gabb. .lour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser.. IV, j). 38L as 



r/ios. 



Buccitriton altum, Conr. — A. J. Conch., i. p. 211. 

 f Ragetiella Texana, Conr. — A. J. Conch,, 1, p, 21. 

 8ta. 3 ; Caldwell ; Wheelock ; St. Augustine. 



B. soalatum, IIeil])r. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. PLila., 1890, j). 405. 

 Smithville. 



Dr, Dall, in his report on the " Tertiary Mollusks of Florida" 

 (Trans. Wagner Free Inst. Science, III, 1890, pp, 134-35), refers 

 Buccitriton sagena, Conr, to Phos and B. altum, Conr. and B. Tex- 

 anum, Gabb, to Na.ssa. I see no good reason for generically sepa- 

 rating the species. The group appears to me to be neither Phos nor 

 Nassa. 



* Pyrula nexilis. Lam. Anim. Sans. Vertebr., 2d ed., Ill, p. 688. 



Pyrula penita, Conr. — F, S. T., 1st. ed., p. 32. 



P. cancellata, Lea. — Contr., p. 154. 



P. elegantissima, Lea. — Contr. p. 155. 



Ficopsis penitus, Conr. — Smithsonian Check List, 1866. 



Smithville. 



Natica (Neverita) arata, (labb. .Tour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 384. 



Alum Creek ; Caldwell ; Wheelock. 



1 N. Moorei, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Xat. Sci. Pliila., 2d ser. IV, p. 384. 



Caldwell. 



I have seen no specimen answering to Gabb's figure or descrip- 

 tion ; the specimen marked in his hand-writing as the " type" of this 

 species is Natica minor, of Lea. 

 N. Dumblei, Heili)r. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 



Station 2. 



* N. minor. Lea. Contr., p. 107. 



Natica minima, Lea. — Contr., p. 107. 

 N. semilunata, Lea. — Contr., p. 108. 

 Smithville. 



* Natica limula, Conr. F. S. T., Lst ed., p. 46. 



Natica mamma, Lea, — Contr., p. lO'J. 

 Smithville. 



* Sigaretus canaliculatus, Sowerby. Mineral Conchology, IV, p. 115. 



Sigaretus hilix, Conr, — A. J. Science, XXIII, p, 344. 

 S. declivus, Conr. — F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 45. 

 S. declivus, Conr. — A. J. Conch., VI, p. 314. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



;S'. Mississippiensis, Conr. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 

 l,p. 113. 

 Smithville. 



Xenophora confusa, Deshayes. Coquilles Fossiles Envir. de Paris, II, p. 243 as 



7)vi /iiis. 

 Devil's Eye.- 



Solarium Meekanum, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 385. 



Wheelock ; Caldwell. 



S. Texanum, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 384. 



Wheelock. 



S. vespertinum, Gabb. .Tour, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.. 2d ser., IV, p. 384. 



CJaldwell. 



* S. alveatum, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 47. 

 Soldrium bilineatum, Lea. — Conir., p. 119. 

 Caldwell. 



* Tuba (Littorina) antiquata, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 35. 



Tuba alternata, Lea. — Contr., p. 128. 

 T. striata, Lea. — Contr., p. 128. 

 T. sulcata, Lea. — Contr., p. 129. (Worn fragment.) 

 Smithville. 

 Scalaria staminea, Conr. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 294. 



Smithville. 



Turritella nasuta, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 385. 



Smithville ; Caldwell ; Wheelock. 



* Turritella carinata, Lea. Contr., p. 129. 



f Turritella monilifera, H. C. Lea. — A. J. Science, XL, p. 97.. 

 Laredo ; well at Palestine, Anderson Co. 



* T. (Mesalia) Claibornensis, Conr. 



Labelled specimen — description ? 

 San Antonio F. 



* T. (Mesalia) obruta, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 40. 



Turritella lineata. Lea. — Contr., p. 130. 



«- T. (Mesalia) venusta, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 40, 

 Cerithimnf striatum, Lea. — Contr., p. 131. 

 Caldwell. 



Eulima exilis, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser,, IV, p. 385. 



Caldwell. 



E. tenua, Gabb, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 386. 

 E. Texana, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 386. 



* Pyramimitra costata, Lea. Contr., p. 166, as Terebra. 



Smithville. 



I believe that the group or genus to which Conrad, in 1865 (A. 

 J. Conch., 1, p. 28), applied the name Pyramimitra has never been 

 characterized. It may stand thus : 



Shell elevated, terebriform, and having the general ornamenta- 

 tion of Cerithium, or of closely related forms — i. e., longitudinal cos- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPHIA. 401 



tse and revolving lines ; aperture comparatively short and contracted 



anteriorly into a twisted canal ; columella considerably twisted (but 



not reflected posteriorly, as in Vertagus), with tvvo folds, the upper 



of which is the longest ; outer lip dentate interiorly. 



« Cerithium Whitfieldi, Ileili.r. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1879, p. 216, as 

 Jiostellaria. 



McBee School. 



Cerithium Texanum, Ileilpr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1890, p. 404. 



Station 5. 



Crepidula sp ? 

 Station 4. 



* Cylichna galba, Conr. F. S. T., 2d ed., p. 40. 



Bulla Si. Hilairii, Lea. — Contr., p. 98. 



B. Kelloggii, Gabb. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV. p. 

 386. 



Smithville ; Caldwell ; Wheelock. 



Volvula minutissima, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 386. 



Caldwell ; Wheelock. 



V. Conradiana, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 386. 



Caldwell ; Wheelock. 



■■ Helcion Leanus, (iabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 387. 

 Caldwell. 



This species is, I believe, Lea's Hipjionyx (Concholepas) pygmoea 



(Contr., p. 95.) 



Dentalium minutistriatum, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 

 386. 



Smithville ; Wheelock. 



Gadus subcoarctatus, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 386, as 



Wheelock. 



ACEPHALA. 



* Corbula rugosa, Lamarck. Anim, sans Vertebr., 2d ed., VI, p. 141; Deshayes 

 Anim. sans Vertebr., Bassin de Paris, 1, p. 226. 



Corbula oniscus, Conr. — A. J. Science, XXIII, p. 34L 



C. Murchisonii, Lea. — Contr., p. 46. 

 C. gibbosa, Lea. var. — Contr., p. 47. 



f C. bicostata, Nyst. 

 Smithville ; St. Augustine Co. 



C. Texana, <Tabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 2d. ser., IV, p. 387. 

 Smithville. 



Tellina Mooreana, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 387. 



Caldwell. 



* Donax limatula, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 42. 



Egeria Bucklandli, Lea» — Contr., p. 52. 

 E. trlangulata, Lea. — Contr., p. 5L 

 Colorado R. 

 27 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Cytherea Yoakumii, Gabb. Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 370, [Meretrix.) 

 Cytherea sp. ? 

 Station 5. 



» C. (Dione) discoidalis, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 36. 

 Cytherea subcrassa, Lea. — Contr., p. 67. 



C. Hatchetigbeensis, Aldrich. — Bull. Geol. Surv. Alabama, 1, j^. 39. 

 Station 3, Ala. 



* C, Nuttallii. Conr. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VII, p. 149. 



Station 1. 



C. Nuttalliopsis, Heilpr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1880, p. 270. 



Devil's Eye, Ala. 



■•■■• Grateloupia Moulinsii, Lea. Contr., p. 59, as Cytheriopsis. 



Cytherea Hydana, Conr. — F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 36. 

 Cytheriopsis Hydana, Cour. — A. J. Couch., 1, p, 1-16. 



Protocardium Gambrinum Gabb. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, p. 371. 



f Card'mm dlversuni, Conr., from Vieksburg (Jour. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 1, p. 122). 



» Lucina alveata, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 40. 

 Lnci)ia Innata, Lea. — Contr., p. 58. 

 Station 1. 



* ? Mysia ungulina Conr. 



Astarte ungulina, Conr. — A. J. Science, XXIII, p. 342. 

 Egeria rotunda. Lea. Contr., p. 50. 

 Devil's Eye. 



* Astarte tellinoides, Conr. A. .1. Science, XXIII, p. 342. 



Astarte Nicklinii, Lea. — Contr. p., 61. 

 A. sulcata. Lea. — Contr., p. 62. 

 Sniithville; Devil's Eye. 



* Cardita planicosta, Lamarck. Anim. sans Vertebr., 2d ed., VI, p. 381 ; Des- 

 hayt's. Anini. sang Vertebr., Bassin de Paris, I, p. 756. 



Cardita densata, Conr. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 1, 

 p. 130. 



C. regia, Conr. — A. J. Conch., 1, p. 8. 



Venericardia ascia, Rogers. — Trans. Am. Philos. Soc. new ser., 

 VI, p. 374. 



et V. Mooreana, Conr. ? 



Laredo ; Lee ; Co. ; well at Palestine, Anderson Co. 



C. Mooreana, Conr. A. J. Conch., Ill, p. 190, as Venericardia. 



Lee Co. 



I think it not unlikely that this species is only a varietal form of 

 C. planicosta. 



* C. alticosta, Conr. A. J. Science, XXIII, p. 342. 



^% Cardita Blandin.gi, Conr. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., VI, p. 



229. 



( ^' Venericardia transversa. Lea. — Contr., p. 68. 



■ ; Camp Disaster, Colorado River ; St. Augustine Co. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Cardita tetrica, Conr. 



Labelled .specimen — description? 

 Sniithville ; Devil's Eye ; Mississippi. 



* C. rotunda, Lea. Contr., p. 70, as Venericardia. 



Sniithville. 



Crassatellaantestriata, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. .388. 



Wheelofk. 



C. Texana, llcilpr. Proc. Aca(L Nat. Sei. Phila., 1890, p. 400. 



Sniithville ; McBee's School ; near Alto ; St. Augustine Co. 



■■•- Nucula magnifica, ('onr. F. S. T., 1st ed,, p. 37. 

 Nacula Sedgivickii, Lea. — Contr., p. 79. 

 Caldwell ; Devil's Eye. 



* Leda bella, Conr. A. J. Science. XXIII, p. .343. 



Nucula plicata, Lea. — Contr., p. 85. 

 Sniithville. 

 Leda compsa, (iabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser,, IV, p. 387. 



Caldwell. 



« ? Yoldia eborea, Conr. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 29.5. 

 Sniithville. 



Pectunculus intercostatus, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 402. 



Axintea bellasculpta, Conr. — Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., 

 IV, p. 295. 



* 1 Limopsis corbuloides, Conr. F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 40, as Pectunculus. 



Devil's Eye. 



Limopsis pulclier, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 388, as 

 Noetja. 



Wheelock ; Caldwell. 



Area (Cibota) Mississippiensis, Conr. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, 

 p. 125 (Vick.«burg). Jour. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p, (Gabb.j 



Area lima (juv.) 



Caldwell ; Wheelock ; near Alto. 



Modiola Texana, Gabb. Proc. Acad, Nat, Sci. Phila., 1861, p, 371, as Perna. 

 Pinna sp. ? 

 Sniithville, 



Pecten sp. ? 

 Station 4, 



* P. Deshayesii. Lea. Contr., p. 87. 



Pecten Lyelli, Lea. — Contr,, p. 88. 

 Burleson Shell B. ; St. Augustine Co. 



This species must not be confounded with Pecten Deshayesii of 

 Nyst (Coqu. et Polyp. Foss., p. 288.) 



* P. (Camptonectes) Claibornensis. Conr. Labelled specimen — description? 



St. Augustine Co. 



Plicatula filamentosa. Conr. F. S. T., 1st. ed., p. 38. 

 Plicatnla Mantelli, Lea. — Contr., p. 89. 

 Ne^r Alto. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Spondylus sp. ? 



* Ostrea Alabamensis, Lea. Contr., p. 91. 



Ostrea lingua-canis, Lea. — Contr., p. 92. 

 0. pincerna, Lea. — Contr., p. 92. 

 0. semilunata, Lea. — Contr., p. 90. 



Near Alto ; Burleson Shell B. ; St. Augustine Co. ; Station 5 ; 

 Station 1, below Carrizo ; Smithville. 



« 0. sellaeformis, Conr. F. F. T., 1st ed., p. 27. 



Ostrea radians, Conr. — F. S. T., 1st ed., p. 27. 

 Smithville ; Cherokee Co. ; St. Augustine Co. 



* 0, divaricata, Lea, Contr., p. 91. 



f Ostrea jiabellula, Lamarck. 

 St. Augustine Co. 



Anomia epMppioides, Gabb. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 2d ser., IV, p. 388. 



Station 2 ; McBee's ; near Jacksonville ; near Alto. 



Natica Dumblei, n. sp. Plate XI, fig. 3. 



Shell globular, smooth ; whorls about five, moderately convex, 

 and flattened slightly on the shoulder ; suture impressed ; aperture 

 about two-thirds the length of shell ; coluraellar surface flattened ;. 

 umbilicus probably wanting. 



Length (height), 2'3 inches ; greatest width, about the same. 



Station 2, Rio Grande ; one specimen, filled with matrix. 



This species seems closely allied to Natica crassatina, Lamarck, 

 from the Paris Basin, and may prove to be that form. It is the 

 largest of our Eocene Natlcas ; named after the State Geologist of 

 Texas. 



CeritMum Texanum, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 2. 



Shell turreted, of the type of the well-known Cerithium gigan- 

 teum and C. Parinense of the Paris Basin, but more rapidly tapering ; 

 whorls? in number, smooth, moderately convex, and ornamented 

 with obtuse, widely placed, and slightly diagonal ribs, which com- 

 pletely traverse the whorls ; aperture ? 



Station 5, Rio Grande. Two fragments, lacking both apex and 

 aperture, and measuring about one and a half inches in height. 

 Although thus imperfect, I have thought best to describe the form, 

 as it represents a well- recognized type from the European Eocene 

 deposits which has not heretofore been generally recognized as oc- 

 curring in the United States. The species is most nearly related to 

 Ceritkmm Parisiense, of Deshayes, from which it differs in the rap- 

 idly-tapering spire. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Clavella (Fusus ?) Penrose!, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 1. 



Shell large, turbinate, with a greatly elongated canal ; whorls 

 scalariform, depressed, broadly flattened and slightly hollowed on 

 the shoulder ; no revolving lines, but wrinkles of growth faintly in- 

 dicated ; beak nearly (or fully?) the length of the spire, and twisted 

 at about its middle somewhat as in Fulgur ; canal narrow, tortuous 

 in its upper half 



Length of full-grown specimen probably 8-10 inches. 



Station 2, Rio Grande. Fragments of two specimens. The spe- 

 cies is manifestly of the type to which Fusus longcevus, of Brander 

 (Sowerby), belongs, although in that species the canal and colu- 

 mella are neai'ly straight ; to the same type also belongs Clavella 

 humerosa, of Conrad, from the Alabama Eocene. I cannot tell from 

 my specimens whether a posterior canal is present or not, but the 

 general similarity of the shell to the forms first referred to, in which 

 such a canal is present, leads me to infer that it also exists in this 

 species. 



The species differs from Fusus longcev^is, apart from the character 

 presented by the columellar arcuation, in the broader and more de- 

 pressed whorls, and in the very considerable inferior flattening of 

 the body-whorl. I have compared it with Sowerby's type (Mineral 

 Conchology, 1, p. 141, table LXIII), which is contained in the col- 

 lections of the Academy. 



Named after Dr. R. A. F. Penrose, Jr., to whom I owe most of 

 the material which has been submitted to me for examination. 

 Buccitriton scalatum, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 5. 



Shell small but robust ; spire of about seven volutions, prominent- 

 ly turreted or scalariform ; whorls only feebly convex, flattened on 

 the shoulder and carrying a considerable number of sharp, diagon- 

 ally directed ribs, which become obsolete on the body-whorl ; revolv- 

 ing lines well-defined on the base of the body-whorl, elsewhere al- 

 most obsolete ; the flat shoulders with two impressed lines, the upper 

 of which is the most prominent. Aperture bucciniform (or colum- 

 bellseform), about one-half the length of shell ; outer lip thickened 

 near the border. 



Length, one-half inch. 



Smithville, Bastrop Co. 



This species differs from the Buccitriton sagena, of Conrad, in its 

 high and flat shoulder, in the less prominence of the revolving lines, 

 and in the obliteration of the longitudial folds on the body-whorl. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Ancillaria ancillops, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 4. 



Shell smooth, fusiform, having much the appearance of Oliva Ala- 

 hamensis; whorls strongly convex, the first four or five prominently 

 ribbed ; sub-sutural band, with sigmoidal lines of growth, well 

 marked; aperture broad, about one-half the length of .shell ; colu- 

 mellar surface markedly concave, w'ith a pseud-umbilicus ; basal 

 notch profound. 



Length somewhat more than an inch. 



Smithville, Bastrop Co. 



The reverse of this shell has much the aspect of Oliva Alabavien- 

 sis. 

 Crassatella Texana, n. sp. PI. XI, fig. 6. 



Shell irregularly rhomboidal ; valves prominently angulated pos- 

 teriorly, with the post-umbonal slope broad and slightly concave ; 

 umbones prominent, well incurved ; hinge powerful ; exterior sur- 

 face ornamented with strong and closely set lines of growth, which 

 traverse the entire shell, becoming, however, less prominent on the 

 umbonal slope. 



Length of shell about an inch and a quarter, slightly exceeding 

 the height. Smithville ; McBee's School ; near Alto ; St. Augus- 

 tine Co. 



This species is comparatively more elongated than Crassatella an- 

 testriata, of Gabb, which in some respects it closely resembles. The 

 ornamentation, too, is carried completely across the shell, and is not 

 restricted to the anterior moiety of the valves. 




1890.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 407 



November 4. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Fifty-seven persons present. 



The functions and histology of the yolk-sack of the young Toad-fish. — 

 Prof. J. A. Ryder presented verbally some observations upon the 

 microscopic anatomy of the yolk-sack of the young Toad-fish or 

 Batrachus tail. Unlike the larv?e of other fishes, the young of this 

 form do not at once escajte from the egg-membrane when the latter 

 is ruptured at the time of hatching but continue to adhere for a 

 long period by means of an adhesive discoidal area on the under 

 side of the yolk-sack to the inner side of a similar area of the egg- 

 membrane which in turn is adherent by its external surface to some 

 foreign object such as the under side of a stone, which forms the roof 

 of the tiny cavern excavated by tlie parent at the time of oviposition. 



The origin of the adhesive matter which causes the eggs to ad- 

 here to foreign bodies was well understood to be ovarian, but the 

 origin of the adhesive matter covering the discoidal area on the un- 

 der side of the yolk-sack has not until now been explained. If the 

 cellular membrane covering the inferior pole of the yolk-sack be 

 carefully dissected off, it is found to be much thickened as compared 

 with the rest of the outer wall of the yolk. This thickening is found 

 upon, making vertical sections of the adherent area, to be due to tlie 

 vertical lengthening and modification of the substance of the outer 

 cells of the epidermis of this region, The peripheral ends of the cells 

 of the epidermis are in fact here seen to be much prolonged in the 

 form of a homogeneous, almost vitreous, looking material, which shows, 

 by the w^ay in which the ends of these cells are roughened or fract- 

 ured, that they effect the adhesion of the yolk to the egg-membrane 

 before alluded to by the speaker. 



The whole of the free surface of the epidermis covering the yolk- 

 sack is studded with scattered goblet or mucous secreting cells. At 

 the edge of the adherent area of the epidermis there seems to be 

 some evidence of the fact that these goblet cells are multiplied so as 

 to completely cover the adherent area of the yolk-sack. If this is 

 the case, wdiich seems very probable, the cells causing the adhesion, 

 for a time, of the yolk-sack and consequently the whole embryo, to 

 the inner side of the egg-membrane, have originated from a multi- 

 plication and modification of the mucous or goblet cells completely 

 covering the adherent area referred to. 



Another remarkable peculiarity of the yolk-sack of the young 

 Toad-fish is the presence of a layer of smooth muscular fibres under- 

 neath the epidermis and a2:)parently originating from the splanchnic 

 mesoblast. This muscular layer consists of two layers of spindle- 

 shaped muscular fibres. One of these layers has its fibres running 




408 PROCEEDING.^ OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



equatorial ly round the pyriform yolk-bag, and the other, which is 

 closely adherent to the first-named, has its fibres running at right 

 angles to the latter, and consequently corresponding in direction 

 with the greatest elongation of the yolk-sack. As far as the speaker 

 is aware, nothing similar in the form of an involuntary muscular 

 coat covering the yolk is known in any other embryo fish. 

 Whether its function is to increase the strength of the yolk mem- 

 brane under the peculiar conditions of tension or whether it served 

 to force the contents of the yolk-bag within the abdominal parietes, 

 as happens during the disappearance of the yolk, the speaker did 

 not attempt to decide. 



The statement in Jordan and Gilbert's Synopsis of the Fishes of 

 North Avierica, p. 750 that: "the young of some or all the species 

 (of the Batrachidre) fasten themselves to rocks by means of an ad- 

 hesive ventral disk which soon disaappears," must accordingly be 

 qualified as incorrect so far as it carries the implication that the act 

 of adhesion is a voluntary one on the part of the young fishes them- 

 selves. The researches of the speaker show very conclusively that 

 the adhesion of young toad-fishes is effected in the first place, at the 

 time of oviposition, by a mucous secretion covering the outer surface 

 of the eggs, and this is supplemented at a later period, or after 

 hatching, by the development, through a modification of certain cells 

 at the surfiice of the yolk-sack, of an adhesive disk, produced by the 

 modification of the substance of the peripheral or free portions of 

 the cells of such an area which adheres to the inside of the egg-mem- 

 brane. The embryo is thus left enchained for a period at the same 

 place where the eggs were originally deposited but in such a way as 

 to be free to respire the surrounding water and to freely vibrate the 

 fins and tail. It is, therefore, clear that the fixation of young toad- 

 fishes is a very complex yjrocess some of the steps of which are 

 effected by the parent at the time of oviposition, while others are 

 effected during the process of the development of the embryo itself, 

 so that it is clear that s^ich a fixation is not voluntary and has noth- 

 ing in common with the voluntary and momentary adhesion, by 

 means of modified fins such as is witnessed in the cases of the Gobie- 

 socidcE and Cyclopteridce. 



November 11. 

 The President, Dr. Joseph Leidy, in the chair. 

 Forty-eight persons present. 



Remarks on Velella. — Prof. Leidy exhibited specimens of Velella 

 mutica, which with many others, where cast on shore at Beach Ha- 

 ven, N. J., in the early part of last August. The living ones were 

 of a deep blue color and ranged from an inch and a half to three 

 inches in the greater breadth. From them there were detached 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



multitudes of gonophores ; minute jelly fishes, measuring 0*44 mm. 

 long by 0*32 mm. broad. 



November 18. 

 Mr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 

 Porty-seven persons present. 



Novemrer 25. 

 Mr. Chas. P, Perot in the chair. 



Fifty-eight persons present. 



Papers under the following titles were presented for publication : — 



"Researches on Respiration, No. 1." By Henry C. Chapman, 

 M. D. and Albert P. Brubaker, U. D. 



" New Species of Fungi from Various Localities." By J. B. 

 Ellis and B. M. Everhart. 



Albert P. Brubaker, M. D. and Miss Virginia Maitland were 

 elected members. 



The following were elected Correspondents : — 



Alfred Giard of Paris, C. Hart IMerriam, i\I. D. of Washington, 

 R. W. Shufeldt of Washington, and Florentino Ameghino of 

 Buenos Ay res. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



NOTICES OF ENTOZOA. 



BY JOSEPH LEIDY, M. D. 



1. Ascaris lumbricoidcs Linne. 



2. Trichocephalus dispar Rudolphi. 



3. ? Filaria primana n. s. 



In the dissection of an Orang, Simia satyrus, which died in our 

 Zoological Garden, Dr. H. C. Chapman found in the intestines sev- 

 eral worms (Proc. 1880, 166), which were submitted to my exami- 

 nation. Three seem in no respect to differ from the ordinary Asca- 

 ris liimbricoides ; one of the specimens being 18 centimeters long. 

 One from the coecum seems to be Trichocephalus dispar. The 

 occurrence of these parasites of man in a near relative outside the 

 genus is an interesting fact. 



Three other worms are unknown to me and I am in doubt as to 

 their generic character. They are females, and measure up to 26 

 centimeters long by 2'75 millimeters thick. They are more robust 

 than species of Filaria commonly are, and in this respect are more like 

 EiLstrongylus gigcis. Although neither of these usually live in the 

 intestine, I provisionally refer the worms to the former genus. The 

 body is nearly uniformly cylindrical, being 2*5 mm. thick one centi- 

 meter back of the cephalic end, gradually increasing to 2*75 mm. 

 and behind, slightly tapering to 2 mm. one centimeter from the tail 

 end. The head is rounded conical, with the mouth as a central pore 

 enclosing a minute papilla and unarmed. The tail is blunt conical. 

 An anal aperture was not detected ; but the genital aperture appears 

 near the cephalic end. The species may be distinguished as Filaria 

 primana. 



4. Ascaris osculata Rudolphi. 



Body cylindroid, tapering in advance ; mouth with prominent 

 lips ; caudal end incurved ; tail short, as wide as long, conical, 

 obtuse. 



Ten females from 25 mm. long and 1 mm. thick to 60 mm. long 

 by 2 mm. thick. 



From the Elephant Seal, Macrorhinus angustirostris, which died 

 at the Zoological Garden. Submitted by Dr. Chapman. 

 6. Ascaris transfuga Rudolphi. 



Body cylindrical, moderately and nearly equally tapering at both 

 ends ; head with narrow lateral alae and prominent lips. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PPIILADELPHIA. 411 



A female 6 inches long and a male 4 inches. 



From the Polar Bear, Ursus maritimus, of the Zoological Garden. 

 Submitted by Dr. Chapman. 



6. Asoaris simplex Rudolphi. 



Body cylindrical, tail short, conical, straight, with a minute mucro. 



One female 4 inches long by I'o mm. thick ; a multitude of 

 young, Avith no males, generally from 20 to 50 mm. long by 0"3 to 

 0"5 mm. thick. 



From the stomach of Mesoplodon sotverbiensis. Submitted by Dr. 

 Cooper Curtice, Washington. 



6. Ascaris spiculigera lUuloliihi. 



Females to 45 mm. long by 2 mm. thick ; tail short, acute. Males 

 30 mm. long by 1 mm. thick ; tail short, incurved, acute. A pair 

 of curved spicules exserted from the genital aperture. 



Numerous specimens from the stomach of Pelecanics fusciis, Flor- 

 ida. Submitted by Mr. F. C. Baker. 



8. Asoaris diacis n. s. 



Body cylindrical, spirally rolled, pinkish-white, translucent, with 

 the brown intestine shining through, smooth, about equally tapering 

 at the ends. Head without appendages; mouth trilobed, with lobes 

 large and rounded. Tail straight conical, acute, without papillae. 



A female 70 mm. long, by 1'25 mm. thick. Obtained by Dr. B. 

 H. Warren, from the body cavity, in the vicinity of the cloaca, 

 of the Purple Grackle, Quiscalns quiscala, Chester Co. Submitted 

 by Dr. Warren. 



9. Atractis (Ascaiis) opeatura n. s. 



Body fusiform, most tapering and subulate behind ; head rounded 

 and tripapillate. Female broader ; tail long, straight, acute, with- 

 out appendages ; vulva slightly tumid, situated a short distance in 

 advance of the anus. Tail of male shorter incurved, with a 

 mucronate point about one-third its length, with two pairs of tubercles 

 ventrally near the middle and a pair opposite dorsally. Genital 

 spicules curved ; one twice the length of the other. 



Oesophagus cylindrical, bounded by chitinous rods ; pharynx 

 about as long, slightly narrower and expanded below ; intestine 

 dilated at commencement but quickly narrowing; rectum short. 



Length of females to 5 mm. by "33 mm. thick at the middle ; tail 

 7 mm. long. Length of males nearly as in the former by "2 mm 

 thick ; tail "375 mm. long. About an ounce measure of the worms 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



obtained from the intestine of an Iguana, Cyclura baeolopha, Cope, 

 from the island of New Providence. 



10. Trichocephalus affinis Rudolphi. 



About a ])int measure of this worm was taken from the large in- 

 testine of a camel, Camelus bacirianus, which died at the Zoological 

 Garden and was dissected at the Biological Department of the Uni- 

 versit}' , in the museum of which the worms are preserved. 



11. Filaria horrida Diesing. 



A dozen females and as many males were taken from the body 

 cavity of an American Ostrich, JRhea aviericana ; from the Zoologi- 

 cal Garden, dissected at the Biological Department of the Univer- 

 sity. Preserved in the museum. 



12. Filaria obtusa Rudolphi. 



Body pinkish-white, cylindrical ; cephalic end rounded, smooth ; 

 caudal end obtuse. About a dozen specimens, female and male, 

 from the abdominal cavity of the Barn Swallow, Chelidon erythro- 

 gaster. Obtained by Dr. B. H. Warren, Chester Co. 



The mouth organs consist of a pair of triloloate, elongated clavate 

 appendages. Dujardiu figures them as conjoined in loops. Length 

 of the organs 0*12 mm. long. Spicules of penis 0*75 mm. long. 

 Ova 0*04 mm. long, 0"032 mm. broad. 



13. Cheilospirura uncinipenis Diesing. 

 Spiropte7'a uncini'penis Molin. 



Body cylindrical, nearly equally tapering at the extremities ; 

 head naked. Caudal extremity of the female obtuse ; of the male 

 spiral, alate ; alae longitudinally corrugated. Penis long, curved 

 and acuminate ; sheath hooked at the extremity, narrowly bialate. 



Several dozen from the gizzard of the Rhea aviericana. Collec- 

 tion of the Biological Department of the University. Females 25 

 to 32 mm. long ; males 20 mm. long. 



14. Physaloptera retusa Rudolphi. 



Body cylindrical, most tapering in advance ; mouth retractile, 

 with six papillae ; caudal end acute ; in the male^ bialate, with the 

 alae supported by four ribs. Four males from 10 to 12 mm. long 



and a female 24 mm. long, from the intestine of Varanus ? 



Submitted by Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



15. Trichosomum 1 tenuissimum n. s. 



In a mature male Brown Rat, Mus decumanus, embedded in the 

 liver, were a number of irregular milk-white bodies, some appearing 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



as spots and others as interrupted lines. These proved to be exceed- 

 ingly slender thread worms more or less coiled up in the substance 

 of the liver. They were so delicate that I failed to detach one of 

 them entii'e. One specimen teased out but broken into half a doz- 

 en pieces was estimated to be two inches long and was only one-tenth 

 of a niillimeter thick. The anterior extremity is much attenuated, 

 with the head acuminate ; the jDosterior extremity thicker, straight and 

 without papillae. Mouth minutely papillate, unarmed. Tail very 

 short, blunt conical. Generative aperture at the fore part of the 

 body and conspicuously swollen. The specimen, a female, contained 

 numerous immature eggs. In some fragments of another worm, a 

 third of a millimeter thick, the uterus was distended with mature 

 eggs. These are white, oval, 0*04 mm. long and 0'032 mm. broad. 

 They have a thick striated shell with a cylindrical aperture at both 

 poles. 



16. Echinorhynclius pellucidus Leuckart. 



Body cylindrical, slightly wider at the extremities ; anterior 

 extremity barrel-shaped and armed with two zones of short, conical, 

 recurved spines ; posterior extremity obtusely rounded. Proboscis 

 clavaie, with extremity oval and armed with about a dozen rows of 

 strong hooks ; neck conical, smooth. 



A dozen females, attached to the lining membrane of the intestine 

 0? Mesoplodon sowerbiensis, ranging from 10 to 18 mm. long by 0'6 

 to 1" mm. broad. Submitted by Dr. Cooper Curtice, Washington. 



17. Edxinorhynohus paucihamatus n. s. 



Body cylindroid, widest in front and tapering behind, annularly 

 constricted, truncate at the caudal end. Proboscis cylindrical, about 

 three times the length of the thickness, clavate at the extremity and 

 furnished with a single row of six, large, abruptly bent, hooks, 

 succeeded by two rows of small ones about half the length of the 

 former. Length 4 to 12 mm. ; thickness at the fore part 0'5 mm. ; 

 behind 0*25 mm. ; proboscis 0'5 mm. long ; large hooks 0"625 mm. 



Frequent and abundant in the small intestine of the Black Bass, 

 Micropterus nigrieam ; usually found loose and with the proboscis 

 retracted. 



18. Amphistomum fabaceum Diesing. 



Body hemiovoid, convex dorsally, flat ventrally. Numerous spec- 

 imens, from 7 to 9 mm. long by 3*4 to 5 mm. broad, from the large 

 intestine of a Sea-cow, Manatus latirostris, which died in the Zoologi- 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



cal Garden in 1875. ^Submitted by Dr. H. C. Chapman. Numer- 

 ous specimens, many of larger size, up to 11 mm. long by 9 mm. 

 broad, were obtained from the nasal passages of another Sea-cow and 

 were presented to the Academy by Jacob Geismar. 



19. Distomum trapezium n. s. 



Body ovate lanceolate, flat, smooth, narrowest in front ; mouth 

 subterminal, transverse oval, unarmed ; ventral acetabulum situated 

 a short distance behind the former, about twice the size. Color 

 brown, darker laterally and thicker due to the vitelline glands 

 which extend from the ventral disk to the posterior extremity of the 

 body. Testes just behind the ventral disk; uterus dendritic and 

 occupying the interspaces of the vitelline glands. Genital aperture 

 back of the oral disk. Length 21 mm., breadth 6 mm. A single 

 specimen from the American osprey, Pandion carollnensis. Sub- 

 mitted by Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



20. Distomum aniarum n. s. 



Body elliptical, flat, translucent white with a median brown streak, 

 smooth. Oral acetabulum subterminal, circular; mouth transverse 

 oval, unarmed. Ventral acetabulum larger, sessile, situated just in 

 advance of the middle of the body. Genital aperture close to the 

 oral acetabulum ; uterus median, tortuous filled with brown ova ; 

 testes two, situated one on each side immediately behind the ven- 

 tral acetabulum. Length from 1'875 to 3 mm ; breadth 0"875 to 1 

 mm. Diameter of oral acetabulum 0*375 mm. ; of ventral acetabu- 

 lum 0*5 mm. Ova oval yellowish-browni, 0'032 by 0*02 mm. Six 

 specimens obtained from the mouth of the Water-snake, Tropidono- 

 tus sipedon. Submitted by Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



21. Distomum incommodum. 



? Monostomwn incommodmn Leidy, Pr. A. N. S. 1856, 43. 

 Di stoma oricola Leidy, Ibid. 1884, 47. . 



22. Distomum gastrocolum n. s. 



Body elongated elliptical, flattened, smooth, translucent reddish, 

 with brown intestine and yellowish genitals ; cephalic extremity 

 narrower, posterior extremity obtusely rounded, or somewhat 

 abruptly prolonged and truncate and with a large contractile vesicle 

 opening externally ; ventral acetabulum spherical, nearly as broad 

 as the body; oral acetabulum about half the size of the former. 

 Pharynx immediately succeeding ; forks of the intestine capacious, 

 distant from the end of the body. Uterus coiled along the middle 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 415 



of the body and filled with yellowish ova; testicles paired, spherical, 

 situated behind the ventral acetabulum ; genital apertures behind the 

 oral acetabulum. Length from 2 to 3 mm. by 0'5 to 0'75 nun. ; in 

 movement elongated to twice the length and most narrowed in 

 advance of the ventral disk ; the latter to 0*5 mm. Ova 0'02 by 

 0-016 mm. 



Several hundred attached to the lining of the stomach from its 

 commencement to the end of its ccecal extremity. From the Skip- 

 jack, Trlchiurus lepturns. 



23. Distomum ischnum n. s. 



Body long, narrow band-like with the ventral disk at the anterior 

 fourth ; smooth, translucent, brownish with lateral black lines due 

 to the long tortuous and sacculated forks of the intestine ; anterior 

 extremity slightly narrower, with rounded head and unarmed ; pos- 

 terior extremity transversely corrugated, with parallel sides and 

 rounded truncate, emarginate end ; ventral disk about half the width 

 of the body ; oral disk smaller ; uterus coiled along the middle of 

 the body and distended with ova. Length 8 mm. by 0"875 mm. 

 wide ; ventral disk 0*625 mm. Ova 0*02 by 0'012 mm. 



A dozen specimens from the mouth, throat and gills of the Sand- 

 pike, Scmrus foetens. Beach Haven, N. J. 



24. Distomum lasium n. s. 



Larval form. Body fusiform, widest at the ventral disk, which is 

 situated near or a little in advance of the middle, finely annulate 

 and minutely echinate ; anterior extremity wider, rounded at the 

 end ; posterior extremity moderately tapering, truncate and emarg- 

 inate at the end. Ventral disk large ; oral disk nearly as large, 

 with a style inserted in the upper lip. Interior organs, except the 

 posterior contractile sac of the vascular system, indistinct. Sporo- 

 cyst. simple, elliptical with from few to numerous larval distomas. 



Larva 0'2 to 0"33 mm. long, by 0'08 to O'l mm. wide ; elongating 

 to 0"4 long by 0'04 mm. wide. Oral disk 0*048 mm. ; ventral disk 

 0-06 mm. ; style 0-016 mm. Sporocyst 0-375 by 0-15 mm. to 0-875 

 by 0-25 mm. 



Very common and numerous in the liver of Ilyanassa obsoleta, 

 Beach Haven, N. J. Ilyanassa oQCurs in great abundance at Beach 

 Haven, the mud flats of the neighboring sounds, at low tide, being 

 covered in dense patches. Covered with dirt, the ordinary observer 

 takes them for pebbles. In dissecting a number I found that about 




416 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



one in five or six was infested with the larval distomas enclosed in 

 sporocysts, often in large number, embedded in the liver and 

 associated genital gland. The larvae always appeared in the 

 distoma-form and never as a cercaria. They exhibited no trace of 

 genital organs, and were all provided with a conspicuous style, in 

 the forehead as it were, ready for penetration into their as yet un- 

 known future host, 



25. Distomum centrappendiculatum. 



Distomactppeudlmkda Leidy, Proc. A. N. S. 1877,202; not Dlsto- 

 mum appendiculatum Rudolphi. 



26. Tetracotyle typica Diesing. 



Body flattened obpyriform, with an oral, a ventral central and an 

 anterior lateral pair of bothria. Length 1-125 to 1-25 mm. long by 

 0-95 to 1-125 mm. broad. 



Encysted in the liver and genital gland of Lymnaea catascopvum 

 and Physa heterostropha. Sixty-five specimens were obtained from 

 a single Physa. 



27. Cercaria platyura n. s. 



Body elongated hemielliptical, widest and truncate behind ; head 

 rounded ; oral acetabulum large and spherical, with a strong style 

 in the upper lip ; ventral acetabulum central, smaller than the for- 

 mer. Tail nearly as long as the body, stout, tapering, corrugated 

 and with a broad, costate, lateral membrane. Length 0-8 mm. ; 

 body 0*4 by 0-12 mm. ; tail 0'36 by 0-06 mm. at base, breadth with 

 membranous alae 0-14 mm.; oral acetabulum O'OS mm.; ventral 

 acetabulum 0*06 mm. 



Found free in a pool, with Lymneus, at Fort Bridger, Wyoming. 



28. Cysticercus tenuicollis Rudolphi. ^The Larva of Taenia marginata Batsch. 



1. A specimen enclosed in a spherical cyst an inch in diameter 

 attached to the paunch of a young sheep, Ovis aries. Cysticercua 3 

 inches long with terminal cyst an inch in diameter ; the retracted 

 head and neck an additional inch in length. Submitted by Dr. 

 J. Cheston Morris. 



2. A specimen from the vagina of a Sheep, measured 5 J inches in 

 length with the terminal cyst over an inch in diameter. 



3. A specimen enclosed in a sac an inch in diameter attached by 

 a pedicle two inches in length to the liver of a Monkey, Semnopith- 

 ectis entellus. The worm was 22 mm. long ; the body 8 mm ; the 

 terminal cyst 14 mm. in diameter. The retracted head 1 mm. broad ; 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



the bothria 0"375 mm. ; the rostrum with its double circle of hooks 

 0'375 mm. Submitted by Dr. H. C. Chapman. 



29. Cysticercus pisiformis Zeder.=Larva of Taenia serrata Uoeze. 



Numerous sacs simple and compound, ranging from 2 to 3 cent- 

 imeters in diameter, with worms isolated and in groups in various 

 stages of development. One large sac contained a dozen groups ad- 

 herent to the inner surface ; the groups with from 6 to 30 worms, 

 opaque yellowish, obconic from 4 to 6 mm. long by 1'5 mm. thick ; 

 with head and neck retracted nearly the length of the rest of the 

 body which is transversely corrugated. Bothria 0"225 mm. ; 

 rostrum 0"3 mm. broad ; upper hooks 0*14 mm. long, lower ones O'l 

 mm. long. 



From the peritoneal cavity of the Jack Rabbit, Lepus palustris, 

 from northern Minnesota. Submitted by Mr. Horatio C. Wood. 



30. Taenia nematosoma n. s. 



Head rounded quadrate, unarmed, with equidistant hemispherical 

 bothria and a small central papilla ; neck short or none ; fore part 

 of body linear ; anterior segments much wider than long ; posterior 

 segments gradually becoming proportionally longer, quadrate or bar- 

 rel-shaped ; genital apertures marginal and alternating irregularly. 

 Length to 9 inches, contracting to about one half. Breadth of head 

 0"375 to 0*5 mm.; bothria 0*175 wide; neck 0*25 wide; anterior 

 segment an inch from the head O'llo mm. long by 2 mm. broad ; 

 posterior segments 0"75 mm. long by 2 mm. broad and when con- 

 tracted, widening to 2"5 mm. Ova spherical, 0'028 to 0*032 mm. 



A half dozen specimens in the stomach of two Pickerels, Esox: 

 retmdatus. 



31. Tetrabothrium triangulate Diesing ? 



Head large, oblate spheroidal and formed by four large bothria; 

 neck short or none ; anterior segments of the body transverse linear, 

 then oblong square, the posterior segments short companulate ; 

 genital apertures marginal. 



Several inches in length ; described from fragments of several in- 

 dividuals. Head 0*55 mm. long by 0*75 mm. broad ; bothria 0*5 ; 

 neck 0*3 wide: body 1 5 mm. behind the head indistinctly segmented and 

 0*125 mm. wide. In a fragment without the head, about an inch 

 long, the anterior segments are oblong square Avith prominent 

 marginal genital apertures and 0*3 mm. long by 0*25 mm. wide ; the 

 posterior segments 0*175 mm. long and 0*2 mm. wide. In a posterior 



28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACA.DEMY OF [1890. 



segment of half an inch, the segments readily separable are short 

 companulate, 0*175 mm. long and 0'375 mm. wide. From the 

 intestine of Mesoplodon sowerbiensis. Submitted by Dr. Cooper 

 Curtice, Washington. 



32. Tetrabothrium loliginis. 



Taenia lolicjlnis Leidy. Proc. A. N. S. 1887, 24. 



The Scolex of Tetrahothrium Rudolphi, or PhyUobothriwn Van 

 Beneden. A dozen specimens in alcohol, obtained from the Squid, 

 Oinmastrephes illecebrosa, at Bar Harbor, Me. In their present 

 condition they are an inch in length or less and from 2 to 3 mm. 

 wide, linear lanceolate, posteriorly acute and unsegmented. The 

 head is prominent, spheroidal and consists of four much folded 

 rosette-like lobes with hemispherical bothria. Submitted by Dr. H. 

 C. Chapman. 



33. Phyllobothrium inchoatum n. s. 



Ten specimens, taken from the blubber in the vicinity of the vent 

 of Mesoplodon sowerbiensis, preserved in alcohol, aj^pear as depressed 

 fusiform bodies from 14 to 18 mm. long and 3 or 4 mm. broad. 

 The retracted head is globose quadrate and is provided with four 

 larger globose and plicated bothria. Submitted by Dr. Cooper 

 Curtice, Washington. 



34. Pentastomum proboscideum Rudolphi. 



Cylindrical, slightly narrowing behind and ending obtusely ; head 

 marked by a constriction, spherical, fore and aft flattened and wider 

 than the body. 



Two females 100 mm. long with the head 5 mm. broad and the 

 body 3 mm. A male 35 mm. long, the head 4 mm. broad and the 

 body 2'5 mm., marked with about forty-eight rings. In the females 

 the fore part of the body is distinctly annulated, but indistinctly be- 

 hind. From the lung of a Black Snake, Coluber constrictor, Flor- 

 ida. Submitted by Mr. F. C. Baker. 



A male Pentastomum, obtained by the same gentlemen, from a 

 Skunk, Mephitis mephitica, is like the one above indicated. It is 

 SO ram. long and distinctly annulated with about forty-eight rings. 

 The head is cap-like, orbicular, convex dorsally and concave ven- 

 trally. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



CO-OSIFICATION OF AXIS VERTEBRA WITH THIRD CERVICAL. 

 BY EDWARD BANCROFT. 



Last summer, while in the neighborhood of Media, I found the 

 the skeleton of a young dog. It was in excellent condition, being 

 cleansed by the rain and bleached by the sun. The epiphyses on 

 the distal end of the femur were present and the sutures were well 

 defined in the skull. I secured the head together with the axis 

 and atlas vertebrae. On reaching home and carefully examining the 

 bones, my attention was first called to what seemed to be an ab- 

 normally long axis vertebra with four transverse processes. On 

 closer examination I found the supposed anomaly to consist of the 

 normal axis vertebra firmly and inseparably ossified with the third 

 cervical which may be thus described in detail : — 



Centrum normal, anterior end firmly ossified to posterior end of 

 axis; transverse processes normal, also foramen for intervertebral 

 artery ; neural arch divided, antero-posterior on the summit, divi- 

 sion passing to right of neural spine of which a mere rudiment, 

 1 mm. high, is left ; jjostzygapophyses normal ; j^rezygapophyses, 

 especially on the right side, firmly ossified to the postzygapophyses 

 of the axis. On the left side ossification is complete but not so 

 prominently marked as on the right side where the corresponding 

 zygapophyses are obliterated. 



The case is probably one of abnormal development, as an injury 

 to the animal tending to produce such effect would have resulted in 

 death. 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



PENNSYLVANIA AND NEW JERSEY SPIDERS OF THE FAMILY LYCO- 



SIDAE. 



BY WITMER STONE. 



The Lvcosidae comprise the largest spiders of the northern 

 United States. They are all ground species, and are found running 

 among grass and dead leaves or hiding beneath stones and logs. 

 Some of the species dig tube-like holes in the ground. These 

 spiders spin no regular web, though Dolomedes and Oeyale make a 

 rough web on weeds or bushes for their young. The eggs are 

 encased in a tough silken bag, which is carried about by the female. 

 When they have hatched, the bag splits open around the middle, 

 apparently cut by the jaws of the female, and the young swarm out 

 and cling to her body. In this way they are carried about for a 

 time until able to shift for themselves. In Pennsylvania the eggs 

 of most of the species are deposited about the middle of August. 



The male spiders are about the same size as the females, and ia 

 their markings differ but little from them, being usually somewhat 

 brighter. 



The species of Lycosidfs are usually marked with various shades 

 of brown, gray, buff and black. They are thickly covered with 

 hairs, and as many of the markings are due to patches of different 

 colored hairs they often present quite a different appearance 

 when dry and when wet with alcohol. 



The Lycosidae have well-developed legs. The fourth pair are 

 the longest, the third pair shortest, and the first and second pairs 

 about equal in length. The thorax and abdomen are rather elon- 

 gated and the jaws are well developed. The eyes are in three 

 rows : four small ones in a slightly-curved row on the front of the 

 head, above the jaws, and four large ones arranged in two rows on 

 the top of the head, forming a quadrilateral (except in Dolomedes 

 and Oeyale, where the posterior row is nearly on a line with the 

 middle one.) 



Authors differ somewhat in the number of genera in which they 

 arrange the species of Lycosidae. Dr. Marx, in his recent " Cata- 

 logue of the Described Araneae of Temperate North America," 

 divides the family into eight genera, while Emerton (Lycosidre of 

 New England, Trans. Connecticut Acad., Vol. VI, p. 481) recognizes 

 but six, considering Troehosa and Tarentula as identical with 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



Lycosa. The three are certainly very closely allied. Trochosa, 

 however, with its low, rounded cephalothorax, seems sufficiently 

 distinct ; but Tarentula, at least as far as our one species, T. kochii, 

 is concerned, does not seem to me distinct from Lycosa. 



The genera which occur in our fauna can be distinguished by 

 the following key. I have included Aulonia, as A. aurantiaca has 

 been found both north and south of Pennsylvania, though I have 

 not been able to find it here. 



Family LYCOSIDAE. 



/. Eyes in three horizontal rows. 



a. Upper spinnerets not longer than the lower. 



h. Length of dorsal eye-area more than one-quarter of the 



length of the cephalothorax. Spiders small. Pardosa. 

 hh. Length of the dorsal eye-area less than a quarter of the 

 length of the cephalothorax. Spiders large, or of medium 

 size. 

 c. Head low in front, and sloping obliquely on the sides. 

 ♦ Trochosa. 



cc. Head high in front ; sides more nearly perpendicular. 



Lycosa. 

 aa. Upper spinnerets longer than the lower. 



b. Dorsal eye-area very large, occupying fully one-third of 



the top of the cephalothorax. Aulonia. 



hh. Dorsal eye-area occupying much less than a third of the 

 cephalothorax. Pirata. 



//. Eyes apparently in two horizontal rows, which are convex 

 anteriorly (i. e., posterior eyes so far forward as to be nearly on a 

 line w'ith those of the middle row.) 



a. Front row of eyes equidistant from the second row and the 



anterior edge of the cephalothorax. Ocyale. 



aa. Front row of eyes much nearer to the second row than to 



the anterior edge of the cephalothorax, Dolomedes. 



Genus LYCOSA. 



The spiders of this genus are usually large, with well-developed 

 jaws and strong legs. The front row of eyes is straight, or slightly 

 curved upwards in the middle ; the central pair are somewhat larger 

 than the others. The eves of the second row are the largest, and 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



are separated by about their diameter from one another. The 

 dorsal eyes are somewhat smaller and are a little farther apart. 



The following key will serve to distinguish the species which I 

 have found in eastern Pennsylvania and New Jersey : — 

 /. Abdon:en with a distinct median brown band running its entire 

 length, and bordered on each side by a buff band. Thorax buff, 

 with brown stripes. 



a. Median band with edges entire. L. punctulata. 



aa. Median band with edges notched anteriorly, and including 



several pairs of buff spots posteriorly. L. scutulata. 



II. Abdomen never with a median brown baud running its entire 



length (except L. arenieola, in which case the thorax is not 



banded buff and brown.) 



a. Cephalothorax not banded, or with a narrow light median 

 band not nearly as broad as the eye-area. 



b. Cephalothorax polished and shining, with a few scat- 

 tered hairs. 



c. Abdomen light gray, sometimes nearly white, with a 



median notched brown band. L. arenieola. 



cc. Abdomen mottled with black and buff; no distinct 



figure. L. polita. 



bb. Cephalothorax covered with short hairs, not polished. 



c. Femora strongly banded above and below. 



L. tigriiia. 

 cc. Femora not banded. 



d. Intensely black beneath ; band on the cepha- 

 lothorax obsolete. L. carolinensis. 

 dd. Brown beneath, Avith a few black dots ; band 

 on the cephalothorax distinct. L. nidicola. 

 aa. Cephalothorax with a light median band as broad anteriorly 

 as the eye-area. 



b. Abdomen with a central light band running its entire 

 length, and which contains a short dark band, 

 c. Under side of abdomen uniform light buff. 



L. ocreata. 

 cc. Under side of abdomen with a semi-circular black 

 mark, or black, with two central light spots. 



L. communis. 




1890.] XATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



bb. Abdomen gray, with two dark spots at the anterior 

 end, often with several .small dorsal spots on a line with 

 these, and sometimes a short median band. 



e. Band on the cephalothorax deeply notched in front 

 of the dorsal groove. L. kocliii. 



cc. Band on the cephalothorax with the margins en- 

 tire. L. frondicola. 

 bbb. Abdomen very light gray, with a dark central-toothed 

 band running its entire length. L. arenicola. 

 bbbb. Abdomen black, mottled with buff; no distinct fig- 

 ure. L. jyolita. 

 The median band of the cephalothorax is often obsolete in L. 

 polifa and arenicola, so they are inserted twice. 

 L. carolinensis, AValck. (PI. XV, figs. 6. 6a.) 



Gray or dark l)rown above, without any distinct pattern on the 

 cephalothorax. A short black median band on the forepart of the 

 abdomen. Under side of abdomen, sternum and coxae, deep black. 

 The male has two rows of light dots on the abdomen reaching from 

 the middle of the black central stripe to the posterior extremity. 

 Length of female, 25 mm. 



The deep black color of the under surface, and the unhanded 

 legs, serve to distinguish this species from the next, while its large 

 size separates it from the other members of the genus. 



I have occasionally found this spider under stones, but most 

 frequently at the bottom of the tube-like holes which it digs in 

 meadows or on the edges of woodland. Females with egg-bags 

 have been taken in their burrows during the la^t week of August; 

 while others, apparently full sized, had not deposited their eggs by 

 the middle of September. Males have been taken running on the 

 ground in grass fields. This species has been observed in Philadel- 

 phia and Chester County, Penn., and also in Mercer County, in the 

 western part of the State. 

 L. tigrina, (McCook.) (PI. XY, figs. 7, 7a, 7b, 7c.) 



]McCook, Trans. Am. Ent. Soc, VII (Proceedings), p. XL 



L. vnlpina, Emerton, Trans. Conn. Acad., A^I, p. 487, pi. 47, fig. 2. 



^NlcCook, Amer. Spiders and their Spinning Work, Vol. I, p. 323, 

 II, p. 404. 



Cephalothorax brown above, with a light median stripe, very 

 narrow between the eyes, becoming wider in the middle, and two 

 light lateral bands. The abdomen is dark brown, sometimes with 




424: PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



indications of black markings; beneath brown. Tiie abdomen 

 marked with black dots, and usually with three dark bands uniting 

 towards the posterior extremity. The legs are brown ; the femur, 

 patella and tibia with light and dark bauds. The male is much 

 lighter colored, and the bands on the thorax are very prominent. 

 The under side of the abdomen in one specimen has the black 

 bands very well marked, while in another it is uniform buff with a 

 few black dots. Length of adult female, 25 mm. 



This species, especially the light-colored male, somewhat resembles 

 Dolomedes tenebrosus at first sight. 



Adult males and females were collected under stones in wood- 

 land during the last week of August. The eggs had not yet been 

 deposited. Two adult females were collected in a similar locality 

 in York County, Penna., June, 1890. One of them had constructed' 

 a nest by hollowing out the earth under the center of the stone. 

 From this a tunnel ran out to the edge of the stone, and at the 

 mouth of this tunnel the spider probably watched for her prey. 

 The whole floor of the nest was strewn with portions of beetles, 

 mainly of the green Cicindela sexguttata. 



L. nidicola, Emerton. 



Above dark brown, with a narrow light band on the cephalo- 

 thorax, and a submarginal light band on each side. There is a 

 light band on the anterior })art of the abdomen, in which is a 

 shorter dark band. The abdominal markings, however, are often 

 very obscure in the females. Beneath the abdomen is brown, with 

 small black dots. Legs uniform brown. The male is lighter, and 

 the markings are more distinct, and there are traces of two light 

 lines from behind the dorsal eyes. Length of female, 18 mm. 



This is the commonest species in the vicinity of Philadelphia. I 

 have frequently found it under stones in woodland, and also 

 inhabiting burrows similar to those of L. carolinensis. Nearly 

 adult females have been taken in these holes as early as April 14th. 

 While digging one of them out of its burrow some years ago I was 

 bitten on the end of the finger. The pain was rather more intense 

 than that experienced from the sting of a bee, and extended through 

 the whole forearm. It did not last, however, more than half an hour, 

 though the finger remained swollen for some time. I have taken 

 this species in Philadelphia, Chester and York Counties, Penna., and 

 at Pt. Pleasant, Ocean County, N. J. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF nilLADELPHIA. ' 425 



L. arenicola, ScuiUler. 



Scudder, Psyche II, p. 2. 



^[cCook, Pruc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 333. 



Marx, Amer. Naturalist 1881, p. 396. 



Above light gray, quite silvery in young specimens. The cepha- 

 lothorax has a Avide central band, which, however, is often indis- 

 tinct, as the hairs rub off very easily, leaving the cephalothorax 

 shining reddish-brown. The abdomen has a dark median band 

 running its entire length, much cut or toothed on the edges, and 

 including several pairs of small gray spots behind. The legs are 

 gray, the front ones darkest and blackish beneath. The under side 

 of the abdomen is gray, -with a black spot around the spinnerets. 

 Length of female, 17 mm. 



This species I have met with only in the sandy districts of New 

 Jersey, especially near the coast. Here they make tube-like bur- 

 rows in the sand, usually lining them with silk. Numerous speci- 

 mens were collected at Pt. Pleasant August 13th, 1888. Both 

 males and females were found in the holes, but only one spider in 

 each. The females were not fully grown, and had not yet deposited 

 their eggs. The tubes were made in the loose sand, and were eight 

 to ten inches deep, with a slight silky lining inside, but no collection 

 of sticks or rubbish around the opening. My friend, Mr. A. P. 

 Brown, made a careful study of these spiders at the same locality 

 some years before, and states that most of the burrows examined 

 by him had silky linings which extended out from the mouth of the 

 hole, and the sand adhering to them formed flaps. These flaps, he 

 noticed, were always drawn over the hole during rain or high wind, 

 nearly covering the mouth of it, and serving as a protection to the 

 spider within. Burrows situated in grassy localities some distance 

 from the beach often had a few pieces of grass or small sticks col- 

 lected around the mouth, but nothing like the turrets found by Dr. 

 Marx, Dr. McCook, or Mr. Scudder. (For interesting accounts of 

 these turrets see references above.) 



The spiders inhabiting the sand-hills had the opening situated at 

 the top of a slight mound, which seemed to serve as an additional 

 protection fi'om the particles of drifting sand. Adult females 

 covered with young were taken from the holes in Septelnber. 



L. polita, Emerton. 



Above, cephalothorax smooth and shining, dark reddish -brown, 

 with an indistinct lighter area extending from the eyes to the dorsal 




426 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



groove. The abdomen is mottled with black and yellowish ; there is 

 usually a light median stripe containing a shorter dark stripe, and 

 several light spots on the sides, but these markings are not at all 

 distinct. Beneath there is a median black band on the abdomen. 

 The legs are shining like the cephalothorax, and are short. Length 

 of female, 10 mm. 



This species I have taken only in York County, Penn. It is 

 found under stones, but does not seem to be common. 



L. frondicola Emerton. (PI. XV. figs. 2, 2a, 2b.) 



Above, cephalothorax brown with a broad gray central band as 

 wide as the posterior pair of eyes. A bdomen gray with two dark 

 spots on the anterior end, which are prolonged into bands on the 

 sides. There are two black dorsal spots and sometimes a short me- 

 dian stripe as shown in Emerton's figure (Trans. Conn. Acad., vol. 

 VI, pi. XLVI, fig. 3.) but in nearly all my specimens this stripe is 

 obsolete. The under side of the abdomen is marked with a broad 

 black band. Length of female 14 mm. 



This species I have usually found running among dead leaves in 

 woods, it is rather common about Philadelphia and has also been 

 taken in York Co., Penn. 



L. kochii Keys. (PI. XV, figs. .3, 3a .3b.) 



Above, cephalothorax brown with a gray median stripe as broad 

 as the eye area, strongly indented on each side just in front of the 

 dorsal groove. There are also indistinct submarginal bands. Ab- 

 domen gray with two black spots on the anterior end which are fol- 

 lowed by several pairs of irregular dorsal spots and occasionally a 

 short median stripe. Beneath gray with minute black dots usually 

 arranged in four longitudinal lines converging at the spinnerets. 

 Legs gray slightly banded on the femora. Length of female 14 mm. 



This species closely resembles the preceding but may be distin- 

 guished by the band on the cephalothorax being incised about the 

 middle. 



It is common in the vicinity of Philadelphia being found under 

 stones in woods. It has also been taken in Chester Co., Penn., 

 and at several localities in New Jersey. 

 L. communis Emerton. 



Above brown, cephalothorax with a light central band as broad 

 as the eyes, and light lateral bands. Abdomen with a broad light 

 median band coming to a point at the posterior extremity just above 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADKLPniA. 427 



the spinnerets. On the fore part of this band is a dark stri[)e edged 

 with bhick ending in a point about the middle of the abdomen. 

 Th'ere are also some black spots on the edges of the light stripe pos- 

 teriorly. The under side of the abdomen is light buff with a black 

 mark, shaped like a horse-shoe, open towards the front; sometimes 

 the front ends of this mark are joined and there is a black median 

 stripe, leaving only two buff spots. The markings above and below 

 are very distinct. Length of female 12 mm. 



I have found this species under stones and logs. It is not common 

 about Philadelphia but is very abundant in York Co. along the 

 Susquehanna River. I have also taken it in Chester Co., Penn. and 

 at Pt. Pleasaant, N. J. 

 L. ocreata Ilentz. 



Above, cephalothorax brown with a broad central and narrow lat- 

 eral band. Region around the eyes black. Abdomen brown on 

 the sides with a light central baud indistinctly barred with brown 

 on the posterior portion and with a central brown band reaching to 

 about the middle. Under side of the abdomen uniform buff. Legs 

 light with long spines, the first pair in the male thickly covered 

 with black bristly hairs which stand out horizontally forming a con- 

 spicuous tuft. 



I have taken this species near Philadelphia and in York Co., 

 Penn. Length of male 7 mm. 



L. punctulata Hentz. 



Above, cephalothorax light buff with two longitudinal brown 

 bands extending back from the eyes leaving a central buff band of 

 about equal width. There is also a very narrow^ line of brown on 

 the margin and traces of a submarginal line. The abdomen has a 

 dark median band edged w^ith black running its entire length and 

 on each side of this, a buff band, while the sides are brown. The 

 under side is buff, the abdomen usually with a few black dots. Legs 

 bu.f. ■ Length of female 15 mm. 



I have taken this species in Philadelphia, Chester and Lancaster 

 Counties, Penn. and at Point Pleasant, N. J. It is found running 

 among grass but is not nearly as common as the next. 

 L. scutulata Ilentz. 



Similar to L.punctulatn. Cephalothorax buflf" with two wide brown 

 bands and a narrower buff one between them. jNIarginal line black, 

 submarginal line brown, indistinct. The abdomen has a broad dark 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1890. 



median band with a narrow buff band on each side. The edges of 

 the median band are cut or toothed anteriorly and it contains several 

 pairs of buff spots in the posterior portion. The sides of the abdo- 

 men are dark brown ; beneath it is uniform buff. Legs buff, the 

 front pair in the male have the femur, patella, tibia and part of the 

 tarsus dark brown. Length of female 16 mm. 



This species is very common running in grass fields. The female 

 makes a nest under stones when carrying her egg bag. The eggs 

 are deposited during the latter part of August. Adult males were 

 collected during the first week in August. I have taken this species 

 in Philadelphia, Chester, Lancaster and York Counties, Penn. 



Genus TROCHOSA. 



This genus is quite similar to Lycosa but the cephalothorax is 

 lower and the sides of the head much more oblique. 

 T. cinerea (Fab.) 



General color very light gray nearly white (yellowish in alcohol). 

 Cephalothorax with a number of irregular radiating brown markings. 

 Eyes surrounded with black in alcohol but when dry the white hairs 

 conceal the black patch. Abdomen marked in the center with a 

 number of brown dots and patches of yellow hairs, with four short 

 narrow brown lines on the anterior part, and some irregular brown 

 lines on the dorsum. Beneath white. In alcohol there appears to 

 be an irregular brown median band with two rows of white spots 

 surrounded with brown. Legs white with black spines. Length of 

 female 15 mm. 



I have found this species only on the coast of New Jersey. Nearly 

 adult females were collected under boards and rubbish near the 

 beach on April 30th. On the night of Aug. 12th, 1889 while catching 

 Amphipods and other small Crustacea which abound on the beach 

 after dark, I caught a number of these spiders which appeared to 

 run down after the retreating waves in search of food. Some of these 

 were females that had already deposited their eggs while others were 

 not more than half grown. 



Genus PIRATA. 



The spiders of this genus are of rather small size. They bear con- 

 siderable resemblance to Lycosa but the upper spinnerets are longer 

 than the lower and the eyes of the middle row are very large and 

 prominent and are usually separated from each other by less than 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 429 



their diameter. The posterior eyes are somewhat farther forward than 

 in Lycosa. There are usually three longitudinal lines on the cepha- 

 lothorax which unite near the dorsal groove. 

 P. piratica Clerk. 



Cephalothorax brown with three buff lines running back from the 

 eyes and uniting into one at the dorsal groove, also a subniarginal 

 band on each side. 



Abdomen with a median light stripe bordered with black, on the 

 anterior portion, and outside of this, several pairs of yellowish spots 

 becoming smaller and united by cross lines posteriorly, (when dry 

 there are two longitudinal rows of small white dots on the back 

 and some white markings on the sides and anterior margin) rest of 

 abdomen blackish. Below buff with three black lines from the epi- 

 gynum to the spinnerets, the side ones more or less contiguous with 

 the dark coloring of the sides of the abdomen. Legs yellowish ; the 

 femora obscurely banded. Length of female 5 mm. 



This species is very common about Philadelphia in damp fields 

 and swamps. Females with Qgg bags have been collected about the 

 middle of August. 



P. elegans nov. sp.- (PI. XV, figs. 5, 5a.) 



Cephalothorax brown with a light median band partially divided 

 into three anteriorly by tw^o narrow brown lines. Xo submarginal 

 bands, but a very narrow whitish marginal line (only seen when 

 dry). Abdomen reddish-brown with several pairs of black dots in 

 a median row, the posterior ones smaller and connected by transverse 

 lines. Beneath brown. Legs uniform yellowish. The peculiar 

 shape of the epigynum can best be seen in the figure. It is usually 

 quite prominent. Length of female 6 mm., 4th leg 8 mm., 1st leg 

 7 mm. 



This species is rather abundant in damp woods in York Co., 

 Penn., in June. 



P. marxi nov. sp. (PI. XV, figs. 1, la.) 



General color reddish-brown. Cephalothorax with an indistinct 

 buff median line with traces of side branches in front from the dor- 

 sal groove to the eyes. Lateral submarginal bands broken and in- 

 distinct. Abdomen with a light median band in the anterior portion 

 of which is a shorter dark band terminating about the middle. On 

 the posterior portion are two longitudinal rows of four buff dots. 

 Legs reddish brown, lower side of abdomen uniform, somewhat 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



lighter than above. When dry the markings on the eephalothorax 

 are very indistinct and it appears nearly uniform reddish-brown. 

 The epigynum has a triangular depression on the posterior margin, 

 the edges of which are horny, somewhat swollen and dark colored. 

 Length of female 9 mm., 1st leg 10 mm., 2nd leg 11 mm., ord leg 

 9 mm., 4th leg 13 mm. 



It gives me great pleasure to dedicate this species to Dr. George 

 Marx, of Washington, D. C, who has greatly assisted me in my 

 study of the Araneae. 



This spider was collected in York Co, Penn., only one specimen 

 was secured. 



Genus PARDOSA. 



The species of Pardosa are all small. The legs are long and 

 slender, armed with long spines. The dorsal eye area occupies about 

 one quarter of the eephalothorax and the eyes are large for the size 

 of the spider. The following key will serve to separate the species 

 that I have found in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 

 /. eephalothorax uniform black, shining. P. nigra 



II. Ce])halothorax with a light median band. 



a. Band contracted just before the dorsal groove. 



b. A distinct light median band on the abdomen. 



e. Several distinct transverse light bands on the pos- 

 terior part of the abdomen, male palpus black. 



P. nigropalpis. 

 cc. Transverse bands obsolete, male palpus with the 

 patella white. P. albopatella. 



bh. No distinct median band on the abdomen. 



P. lapidicina. 

 aa. Band not contracted. P. bilineata. 



P. nigropalpis Emerton. 



Female. Cephalothorax brown with a broad gray central band, 

 broadest just behind the eyes then contracted and widened again 

 around the dorsal groove and narrowed posteriorly. There are two 

 narrow gray submarginal bands. The region around the eyes is 

 black. 



Abdomen dark brown with a median gray stripe reaching nearly 

 to the middle and followed by several transverse gray stripes, becom- 

 ing shorter posteriorly. Legs gray, indistinctly banded. The male 

 is similar but darker with the markings more obscure. The palpi 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPIIIA. 431 



are deep black and are very prominent. In alcohol the liglit mark- 

 ings aj)pear ycllowi.sh. Length of female 5 mm. 



Thifi is one of our most common spiders and is abundant running 

 on the ground in fields and gardens. Females have been taken with 

 egg bags and some covered with young, during the early part of 

 August. 



P. albopatella Emerton. 



Female. Cephalothorax similar to P. nigropalpis. Abdomen 

 with a median light band reaching to the middle, the rest of the 

 abdomen mottled but without any distinct cross stripes. 



The male according to Emerton has the lateral bands of the 

 cephalothorax broader and brighter than in P. nigroj)alpis while the 

 patella of the palpus is white. Length of female 4 mm. 



I have found only the female of this species and it does not seem 

 to be very common about Philadelphia. 



P. bilineata Emerton. 



Female, cephalothorax dark brown with a distinct broad buff 

 median band slightly wider at the anterior end, and on each side a 

 light marginal band with a dark line down the middle of it. Eye re- 

 gion black. Abdomen brown with a bright yellow'ish central band 

 in the anterior portion of which is a brown stripe, the posterior part 

 has several black dots along the margin. Beneath the abdomen is 

 light with four longitudinal lines converging near the spinnerets. 

 The two median lines are sometimes indistinct. Length of female 

 7 mm. 



This species is not very abundant but has been taken near Phila- 

 delphia. 



P. lapidicina Emerton. 



Cephalothorax brown, the central light band deeply incised in 

 front of the dorsal groove and the anterior portion more or less 

 obliterated, widest around the dorsal groove and suddenly narrowed 

 posteriorly. Lateral bands broken and irregular. Abdomen brown 

 with irregular yellowish spots arranged in two longitudinal rows 

 and more or less connected transversely and longitudinally. Legs 

 light, distinctly banded with brown. Length of female 7 mm. 



This species I have taken only among the Susquehanna hills in 

 York county, Penn. 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



P. nigra nov. sp. (PI. XV, fig. 4, 4a.) 



Cephalothorax smooth and shining, uniform black with a reddishi 

 brown luster, no stripes whatever. Sternum and coxae similar, 

 somewhat lighter. Abdomen black, indistinctly mottled with olive 

 brown or gray, without any distinct pattern, though there is a more 

 or less distinct light median stripe on the anterior part reaching 

 nearly to the middle. The sides of the abdomen are black, thickly 

 speckled with small gray dots. Beneath brownish, with no distinct 

 markings. Mandibles and palpi shining dark reddish brown, front 

 edge of cephalothorax just below the first row of eyes, yellowish. 

 Legs, femur dark shining like the cephalothorax, patella white ; the 

 first and second pairs have the other joints entirely yellowish white, 

 the third pair are similar but with prominent black spines while the 

 fourth pair have the tarsus banded with brown at the ends. Two 

 females with egg bags were taken running in a pasture field in Ches- 

 ter Co., Penna., in the latter part of August. Length of female 5 

 mm. 1st leg 5? mm. 4th leg 9 mm. 



Genus OCYALE. 



The cephalothorax and abdomen are rather more elongated than 

 in Dolomedes or Lycosa. The hind row of eyes is nearly on a line 

 with the second, and the front row is equidistant between the sec- 

 ond row and the front of the cephalothorax. 

 0. undata (Hentz). 



Cephalothorax light bulf with a broad, bro^vn median band as 

 wide as the eye area. Abdomen with a central band, somewhat 

 scalloped on the edges. Legs buff". Old specimens have the legs 

 darker and the abdominal markings less distinct. Length of female 

 12 mm. 



This spider is quite common, being found on bushes or among 

 grass where it spins a loose mass of web and deposits its egg bag. 

 I have sometimes noticed it make its nest in the folds of a window 

 curtain inside the house. I have taken specimens at Philadelphia 

 and in Chester Co., Penna. 



Genus DOLOMEDES. 



The cephalothorax in this genus is very broad, the second and 

 third rows of eyes are nearly as in Ocyale but the front row is much 

 nearer to the second than to the edge of the cephalothorax. The 

 species live about water. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



D. tenebrosus Hentz. (1*1. XV, fig. 8.) 



Cephalothorax brown with a broad light marginal band and a light 

 one behind the eyes terminating in a point in front of the dors^al 

 groove. There are also several dark radiating lines. The abdomen 

 is gray and brown with several transverse black angular marks re- 

 sembling the letter W, across the posterior portion. On the anterior 

 part are two longitudinal black bands enclosing a lighter space be- 

 tween them, all these black bands are bordered with light buff. Be- 

 neath uniform brown. The coloration varies considerably in differ- 

 ent individuals especially with age. Legs banded with brown and 

 gray. Length of female 25 mm. from tip to tip of legs stretched 

 longitudinally 90 mm. 



This species is abundant about water, often inhabiting spring 

 houses and boat houses. The female carries her bag of eggs in 

 August and the young have been observed in a rough web on weeds 

 early in September. This spider runs over the surface of water 

 readily and frequently goes beneath when pursued. The male I 

 have not seen. 



D. sexpunctatus Ilentz. 



Cephalothorax reddish-brown with a bright silvery white band 

 on each side. Abdomen brown with a similar band on each side 

 and two rows of white dots down the back. Beneath brown. Leg& 

 uniform brown. The white markings do not show when the spider 

 is wet with alcohol. From the note in Dr. Marx's Catalogue there 

 seems to be some confusion about the male of this species and the 

 preceding. I have a specimen from York Co., Penna., which I think 

 is undoubtedly the male of D. sexpunctatus as it is just like the female 

 except that the ground color is lighter, it having just cast its skin, 

 and the white spots are all surrounded with black. Length of fe- 

 male 11 mm. 



I have taken the female at Pt. Pleasant, N. J. near the beach. 

 Dr. McCook has taken it at Philadelphia. 



Explanation of Plate XV. 



Fig. 1. Pirata marxi, female. 

 Fig. la. Epigynum of same. 

 Fig. 2. Lycosa frondicola, female. 

 Fig. 2a. Same, under side of abdomen. 

 Fig. 2b. Same, epigynum. 

 Fig. 3. Lycosa kochii, female. 

 29 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Fig. 3a. Same, under side of abdomen. 



Fig. 3b. Same, epigynum. 



Fig. 4. Pardosa nigra, female. 



Fig. 4a. Epigynum of same. 



Fig. 5. Pirata elegans, cephalothorax. 



Fig. 5a. Epigynum of same. 



Fig. 6. Lycosa carolinensis, under side of abdomen. 



Fig. 6a. Epigynum of same. 



Fig. 7. Lycosa tigrina, female. 



Fig. 7a. Same, under side of abdomen. 



Fig. 7b. Epigynum of same. 



Fig. 7c. Male palpus of same. 



Fig. 8. Dolomedes tenebrosu^, female. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCF:S of PHILADELPHIA. 435 



December 2. 

 Mr. Theodore D. Rand in the chair. 

 Sixty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Description of a new Japanese Scalpelluni," 

 by Henry A. Pilsbry, was presented for publication. 



The death of Samuel Lewis, M. D., a member, was announced. 



Geology of the South (Chester) Valley Hill. — Mr. Theo. D. Rand 

 remarked that in a paper on the serpentines he had called attention 

 to the fact that northwest of West Chester there appeared to be an 

 outcrop of Laurentian rock on the north side of Black Horse Run 

 or Taylor's Run apparently enclosing a mica schist valley. He 

 had expressed doubt as to whether it was really Laurentian. 



A further study of this region convinced him that these gneisses 

 extend several miles at least, and certainly from the east branch of 

 the Brandywine to the High Street Road near Taylor's Mill, and 

 that they belong properly to the mica schist formation of Cream 

 Valley which bounds the serpentine on the north and further that 

 these schists, ofteu garnetiferous, compose the greater mass of this 

 part of the South (Chester) Valley Hill, which has, he believed, 

 been heretofore universally regarded as wholly of the hydromica 

 schist of which it is composed a few miles to the northeast. It is 

 true that in some places it is extremely difficult to tell one rock from 

 the other, but where largely exposed the separation is clear. Small 

 hand specimens often look alike, rock masses do not. 



Where garnets occur they are a distinguishing feature, as he be- 

 lieved they are not found in the true hydromica schist. When gar- 

 nets are absent, the most characteristic feature is the occurrence of 

 the quartz, which, in the hydromica, is in lenticular masses closely 

 covered with the hydromica which adheres strongly, while in the 

 mica schists the quartz is either disseminated, or interlaminated in 

 sheets frequently very thin. The fracture too is characteristic, the 

 hydromica breaks into more or less lenticular masses, the tendency 

 being towards very thin flat plates with very smooth surfaces, or 

 more usually into elongated roughly oval masses on which parallel 

 faces are almost entirely absent but still with an even smooth sur- 

 face. The mica schist on the contrary is more massive, has a more 

 or less regular lamination, breaking into masses with two nearly 

 parallel sides, the other fractures irregular but without the tendency 

 to come to a thin edge prevalent in the hydromica. The surfaces 

 are rougher and somewhat corrugated. The mica schist occasion- 

 ally contains feldspar, the hydromica probably never. 



There is in some places at least, a marked change of dip, that 

 of the hydromicas being almost invariably 80° and upwards and 




433 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



not regular, while the garnetiferous schists dip less steeply and in- 

 variably to the southeast. The garnets are frequently absent over 

 large areas ; again they are abundant, but as a rule less so as we 

 a{)proach the hydromica. On the East Branch of the Brandywine, 

 atid on the adjacent affluent, Valley Creek, the mica schists appear 

 to be between two and three miles wide, while the hydromica nar- 

 rows to probably less than three quarters of a mile. 



This is in marked contrast to the exposure in Radnor, twelve 

 miles to the northeast, wiiere the mica schists are not over 200' wide 

 while the hydromicas extend two miles. On the East Branch the 

 contact is near Hawley's Mill. The actual contact cannot be ob- 

 served but the change of dip and in the character of the rock is well 

 marked. 



In these schists northwest of West Chester near Taylor's Mill, 

 fragments, apparently of Potsdam sandstone, were found similar to 

 the occurrence in Cream Valley and in them or next to them also 

 occurs the limestone of this region. 



In the discussions of the geology of this section it seems to have 

 been taken for granted that the topographical South Valley Hill 

 was wholly of hydromica schists which widened westward. The 

 fact that the mica schists in question are not of the same age as the 

 hydromica schists may explain in part the want of agreement be- 

 tween different geologists on this region. It was his intention to 

 study this farther and present the facts more fully hereafter. 



December 9. 

 Dr. Geo. H. Horn in the chair. 

 Thirty persons present. 



December 16. 

 Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 



Trichia proximella Karst. — Dr. Geo. A. Rex presented spec- 

 imens of Trlchia j)i-oximella Karst. and described its specific char- 

 acters, history, and geographical distribution. 



This species is not rare in the United States, having been found 

 in many localities, its range, as far as yet known, extending from 

 Canada to North Carolina and as far west as Iowa. 



It occurs, however, less frequently than Trichia ckrysosperma 

 Rost. growing usually in small, scattered clusters of minute, closely 

 aggregated, sessile sporangia of a golden brown color. 



In the Journal of Mycology for August, 1886, the speaker had 

 published a paper giving an analysis of the results of an examination 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPIIIA. 437 



of a large number of specimens of sessile, aggregate Trichias from 

 widely separated localities. 



Exclusive of those referred to Trichia chrysosperma Rost. the 

 specimens there described, were all of one specific type possessing 

 some of the diagnostic characters of T. affinis De By. and T. Jackii 

 Rost. and yet properly referable to neither species. 



Since that paper was written, however, a type specimen of T. 

 proximeUa Karst. was obtained from Dr. Karsten by Mr. Harold 

 Wingate, through whose courtesy the speaker was enabled by com- 

 parison with that type, to refer the above series of undetermined 

 specimens to T. proximeUa with certainty. 



More recently he has examined over fifty additional specimens, 

 principally from Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, which would be 

 issued in a forthcoming century of the North Am. Fungi, E and E. 



In these he had found the same specific characters as before, the 

 elaters morphologically similar in all specimens, but the spores show- 

 ing a great variety of epispore sculpturing in the same cluster of 

 sporangia and even in the same sporangium. 



Using the figures of the spores of T. affinis and T. Jackii in 

 Rostafinski's Monograph, as convenient type illustrations, it may be 

 said that the spores in some of the sporangia of T. proximeUa show 

 raised bands or markings largely of the T. affinis type ; in others, 

 largely of the T. Jackii type ; in others, a commingling of both types, 

 in all cases these type markings being more or less associated with a 

 bewildering variety of sculptures of irregular form or of forms, 

 suggesting the outlines of the Arabic numerals or various letters of 

 the alphabet. 



These bands are perforated through their thickness with one, two 

 or three rows, or a cluster of minute cylindrical openings or pits, or 

 are sculptured into intricate plexuses of minute reticulations with 

 quadrilateral interspaces. 



In the type specimen of T. proximeUa, the spore markings ap- 

 proach the T. Jackii type. 



The elaters or threads are 4'5 // thick and provided usually with 

 foTir spirals which are closely and minutely spinulose, and connected 

 with each other by well marked and numerous interspiral filaments. 



The elaters in all the American specimens correspond morpholog- 

 ically with the type, difl^ering only in a coarser growth in some 

 cases due probably to local conditions. 



The speaker further illustrated with the microscope the relations 

 of T. proximeUa to T. Jackii, its nearest allied species. 



Through the kindness of Prof. W. G. Farlow he was enabled to 

 exhibit a type slide of T. Jackii prepared by Dr. Farlow from a 

 portion of the type specimen of Rostafinski. Considering the great 

 variability of the spore sculpturing in the two species, the spores of 

 T. Jackii do not differ specifically from those of T. proximeUa. 



The elaters, however, are more slender and otherwise not so 

 strongly developed, having few and poorly developed interspiral 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



filaments. Nevertheless these filaments can be determined beyond 

 a doubt, by a sufficiently high power lens. 



Under these circumstances the speaker believed that the difference 

 between the two species is that of development only. 



Note on Stemoiiitis maxima Sz. — Mr. Wing ate remarked that he 

 had carefully examined the type of this Stemonitis in the Schweintiz 

 collection in the herbarium of the Academy, and although the spec- 

 imen is very old and has not been handled with the care which is 

 now bestowed upon these delicate forms of the Mycetozoa, the speaker 

 was gratified to find a remnant of capillitium which contained spores 

 enough to identify the species with one of the commonest forms 

 found in this vicinity. This very common species will probably be 

 found in most herbaria under thename oi Stemonitis fusca (Roth) Rost. 

 but on comparing it with an authentic specimen of the latter species 

 the distinctness of the two species is very apparent. Mr. J. B. Ellis 

 has sufficient material at present of Stemonitis maxima Sz. and pro- 

 poses to issue it shortly in Ellis & Everhart's " North Amer. Fungi." 

 The speaker was indebted to Mr. Geo. Massee of Kew Gardens, Lou- 

 don, for authentic specimens of several species of Stemonitis, and 

 hoped with this aid to be able to identify our American species and 

 make the same the subject of a future communication. 



December 23. 

 Mr. Chas. p. Perot in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " Palaeosyops and Allied Genera," by C. Earle 

 was presented for publication. 



The Development of Bacillus tuberculosis. — Dr. Samuel G. Dixon 

 made the following summary report of his work in the Bacteriolo- 

 gical Laboratory of the Academy with special reference to investi- 

 gations on the tubercle bacillus. The communication was read at 

 the meeting of the 18th ult., publication being deferred in conse- 

 quence of the author's immediate departure for Europe : — 



Our experiments show that the Bacillus tuberculosis is capable of 

 changing from its commonly recognized rod form to that of a more 

 compound one. Some of the rods assume a club shape, while fur- 

 ther on in the cycle of life, they become branched, many organisms 

 showing at least one distinct branch. 



When these forms, including some ordinary shapes, are placed on 

 a pabulum, rich in glycerine and poor in pepton, yet suited to their 

 existence, the culture medium within a few weeks shows an increase 

 of foreign matter. This includes not only a few of the complex 

 forms but many ordinary rod bacilli. Time, however, produces an in- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4o9 



crease of the more complex micro-organisms, which may be a degen- 

 erate form of the bacillus. 



There would appear to be in this homogeneous mass something 

 other than the bodies of the micro-organisms. This may be the 

 residue of the pabulum remaining after the bacilli have selected 

 what was necessary for their existence, or a digestive secretion, or 

 again it may be an excretion of the live organism. Let this be 

 as it may, I hope to find a changed functional action in the organ- 

 ism in its secretion or excretion, that would combat tuberculosis in 

 animal life, either by stimulating the cells or by causing a chemical 

 reaction in the tissues that were susceptible to the digestive secretion 

 of the tubercle bacillus. 



An attempt to explain its probable action appears in an article I 

 wrote for the " Medical News" of October 19th, 1889, and also in the 

 " Medical and Surgical Reporter," and the " Times and Register" of 

 this year. The views expressed are, however, purely hypothetical. 



When the mass that I have already spoken of as being found 

 on the pabulum was subjected for a considerable length of time 

 to various degrees of heat and injected into the guinea pig, the ani- 

 mal seemed to sicken, yet only for a short time. The animals so 

 treated appear to resist injections of virulent bacilli. Whether this 

 would produce immunity for any length of time, provided we dis- 

 continue the administration of the remedy, I am not sure. Some 

 animals injected with virulent matter after the treatment with the 

 changed mass had been discontinued, appear to be immune ; and 

 experiments on animals suffering with tuberculosis have resulted 

 most satisfactorily. 



From the fact that I believe an inorganic matter would be less 

 dangerous in the treatment of tul)erculosis than organic matter, work 

 on the following lines is being carried out. 



First of all, we have tried the subcutaneous injection of Trypsin 

 into tuberculous animals. The rationale of this will be patent to 

 all. 



Then again we have introduced the respective bile constituents 

 into the blood of tuberculous animals. This was suggested by the 

 condition of liver and bile found in them. 



Another method we have employed has been to introduce germi- 

 cides directly into the spleen, thereby bringing the drug in contact 

 with the blood corpuscles when in, probably, a susceptible state. 



We have also introduced germicides into the intestinal tract, ac- 

 companied with predigested food stuff. In this method, we have 

 the germicide in contact with the intestinal glands, when the latter 

 are in an inactive state of absorbing. 



The animals have been kept under strictly hygienic surroundings. 

 The results have varied much. While one has been unsatisfactory, 

 another has been promising. 



At this stage, a cablegram from Berlin has informed us that Prof. 

 Koch of that city, has succeeded in producing a lymph that does 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



combat tuherculosi.s in man. Believing the reports, I feel convinced 

 that he has brought his researches to a higher degree of refinement 

 than that accomplished at this time in our laboratory. I intend, 

 therefore, to sail for Berlin in the interest of humanity, as well as 

 in the interest of the Academy and the Jefferson Medical College 

 and Hospital. 



My fervent wish is that those who have had hope of cure breathed 

 into them by the Hon. Prof. Koch will enjoy a full realization and 

 that I may return better understanding micro-organic life and armed 

 with that which will hereafter check the tubercle bacillus in its 

 devastations in the animal economy. 



December 30. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



441 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW JAPANESE SCALPELLUM. 

 BY HENRY A. PILSBRY. 



Ill a collection of Japanese Mollusca and Cirripedia recently sent 

 the writer for determination, numerous specimens of a very large 

 Scalpellum, which proves to be of a new species, were found. The 

 specimens were collected by Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, 

 Michigan, and it seems but just to connect his name with this form, 

 in recognition of the value of his additions to the Japanese fauna. 

 Scalpellum Stearnsii sp. nov. 



Valves fourteen, wholly calcified ; carina distinctly bent near the 

 the middle, with the umbo at a considerable distance from the apex ; 



upper latus pentagonal ; 

 infra-median latus much 

 smaller than the upper 

 latus, subquadrangular, its 

 altitude scarcely exceeding 

 its breadth ; carinal latus 

 narrow, crescent shaped, 

 projecting below the carina 

 in a strong recurved hook; 

 rostral latus narrow, lanceo- 

 late. Rostrum short, tri- 

 angular. 



Capitulum rhomboidal, 

 compressed. 



Scutum large, longer than 

 broad, its apex projecting 

 a trifle over the terguni. 



The tergum is large, tri- 

 angular; occludent and 

 scutal margins slightly con- 

 vex, carinal margin con- 

 cave ; apex erect, a trifle 

 recurved. 



Carina much curved, 

 strongly angled at the 

 umbo, the distance of which 

 from the apex is a little over one-third the length of the valve ; the 




442 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



sides are well developed, the roof in the lower part nearly flat or 

 slightly convex. 



The upper latus is pentagonal-oval, its umbo subcentral, having 

 riblets radiating to the four lower angles ; the tergal and scutal 

 margins are about equal in length. 



Rostrum very small and short, triangular, its three sides equal. 



Rostral latus narrowly cuneiform, basal and scutal margins sub- 

 parallel, converging anteriorly, of equal length. 



Infra-median latus quadrangular, about as broad as high, the 

 rostral margin a trifle longer than the carinal ; umbo on the basal: 

 margin, 



Carinal latus narrow, sickle-shaped, recurved, longitudinally 

 ribbed, the free projecting portion about half the length of the 

 plate. 



The peduncle is long, elliptical in section. Length of capitulum 

 of the largest specimens 46 mm., width (in the middle) 32 mm. 



This species belongs to the group of S. vulgare Linn., S. magnxim 

 Darwin, S. Pfeifferi Weithofer, — species with fourteen valves, the 

 carinal latus and rostral latus narrow, compressed, with outward- 

 projecting umbones ; carina strongly angularly bent near the middle^ 

 its umbo situated nearer to the middle than to its upper termination ; 

 rostrum short, inconspicuous. 



Compared with S. magnum (coralline Crag, etc.), the present 

 species has the umbo of the carina more curved inward ; roof flatter, 

 broader. The scutum is not so narrow above, nor is the upper latus 

 so elongated. The rostral latus is truncated on its inner margin, not 

 rounded as in S. magnum. '"^■■' ' 



The triangular shape of the rostrum will separate 8. Stearnsii 

 from S. vulgare; compare also the shape of the inferior latus and the 

 carinal latus, which are quite different. This is the only recent 

 species at all approaching S. Stearnsii. 



The species described by Weithofer as S. Pfeifferi has a decided 

 resemblance to the Japanese form. It differs in the more robust 

 carina, higher, more oblique inferior latus, and in the sculpture of 

 many of the valves. aS. P/e?jfeH is from the miocene of Austria. It 

 is a much smaller species than S. Stearnsii, but not much reliance 

 is to be placed on this character. 



The principal works consulted on ScalpeUum are Darwin's 

 " Monograph on the fossil Lepadidte," in the publications of the 

 Pakeontological Society, 1851, and his "Monograph on the Cirri- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



pedia" Ray Society, 1851. "Report on the Cirri pedia collected 

 by H. M. S. Challenger," by Dr. P. P. C. Hoek, 1883, and 

 " Bemerkungen ueber eine fossile Scalpelluin Art aus dem Schlier 

 von Ottnang u. Krems-Miinster " etc., in Jahrb. k.-k. geol. Reichsan- 

 stalt 1887, p. 371, by A. AVeithofer. 



The figure represents a specimen of natural size on a Vermetus 

 shell. All of the specimens collected were attached to shells. 



The following species of Cirripedia were included in the collection 

 made by Mr. Stearns in Japan : — 



LEPADIDJE. 



PoLLiciPES MITELLA L. Abundant at Enoshima. 



Lepas anatifera L. East coast near Yokohama. 



ScALPELLUM STEARNSii Pilsbry. East coast of Tokyo, 6 to 10 fms. 



BALANID^. 



Balanus tintinnabulum L. (typical). Awaji coast. 



Balanus amphitrite Darwin. Akashi coast. 



Balanus Amaryllis Darwin (mixed with B. amphitrite). Inland 



Sea. 

 Balanus cepa Darwin. Inland Sea ; growing on Cancellaria 



nodulifera. 

 Tetraclita porosa Gmel. Inland Sea ; three only found. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



GEOLOGY OF ARTESIAN WELLS, ATLANTIC CITY, N. J. 

 BY LEWIS WOOLMAN. 



Additional Species of Diatomacece. — In the list of species identi- 

 fied by C. Henry Kain and E. A. Schultze, (pages 136 to 140 of this 

 volume) there was accidentally omitted the entire enumeration of 

 of species of the genus Navicula. The list is as follows : 



Navicula crabro Ehr. 



Navicula didyma Ehr. 



Navicula DeWittiana Kain & Schultze. 



Navicula elliptica Kutz. 



Navicula entomon Ehr. 



Navicula forcipata Grev. 



Navicula gracilis (Ehr.) Kutz. 



Navicula Hennedyi W. Sow. 



Navicula Lewisiana Grev. 



Navicula Lyra Ehr. 



Navicula macilenta Ehr. Rare. 



Navicula (pinnularia) major Kutz. Rare. 



Navicula permagna Bail. 



Navicula praetexta Ehr. 



Navicula Smithii Breb. 



Navicula viridis Kutz. Rare. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



THE GEOLOGY AND PALEONTOLOGY OF THE CKETACEOUS 

 DEPOSITS OF MEXICO. 



BY PROFESSOR ANGELO HEILPRIN, 



III the following pages I have attempted to present, so far as they 

 are known to me, all the leading facts touching the geological and 

 paleontological relations of the Cretaceous deposits of Mexico. It 

 is true these are still far from sufficient to permit us to analyze with 

 satisfaction the minor details of the geology of so vast a region as 

 the Mexican Republic, but they serve to clearly mark out its more 

 salient geognostic features, and to establish its relationship with the 

 great continental mass lying to the north and with the oceans which 

 bound it on the east and on the west. My own observations were 

 made in the spring of the present year (1890), when, as chief of the 

 scientific expedition organized under the auspices of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, I traversed much of the 

 south-central region of the Republic, from the Atlantic nearly 

 to the Pacific, at the same time that I enjoyed the opportunity of 

 studying special collections which had been previously made at points 

 not reached by our party. 



The conclusions stated in the present paper are the following : 



1. Cretaceous deposits cover, or are scattered over, the greater 

 part of Mexico, from the Atlantic plains to the Pacific, and from 

 the Rio Grande to (or through) the States of Colima, Michoacan, 

 Guerero and Oaxaca. These deposits are continuous with the Cre- 

 taceous area of the interior basin of the United States, and are 

 largely the equivalents in age of the deposits which are represented 

 in Texas and in the other Gulf States. 



2. The Mexican Cretaceous deposits that have thus far been iden- 

 tified by fossil remains represent a horizon not lower than the Cen- 

 omanian, while the greater bulk of the formation is of Turonian or 

 Senonian age. The deposits are thus a part of the Middle (?) 

 and Upper Cretaceous series of the true geological scale. 



3. No unequivocal deposits of Lower Cretaceous age — as equiv- 

 alents of the Gault, Neocomian, etc. — have yet been discovered in 

 the Republic, although some such may exist intermingled with, or 

 underlying, the newer series. 



4. The great central plateau of Mexico consists in greater part of 

 nuclear Cretaceous strata, over whose uneven summits a more or 




446 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



less even surface has been prepared through aqueous erosion (and 

 sedimentation) and long-continued volcanic discharges, principally 

 the latter. Along the southern margin of the plateau the Creta- 

 ceous strata (emerging from the plateau) rise to an absolute eleva- 

 tion (above the sea) of upwards of 8,000 feet. 



5. The Cretaceous rocks, which form the nucleus of the plateau, 

 are projected (with little diminution in height) in more or les^ par- 

 allel ridges southward from the southern scarp of the plateau, 

 proving that the plateau uplift is not due to faulting on the east and 

 west line which marks the positions of the principal volcanic sum- 

 raits of tlie Republic. 



6. The Gulf plain of Mexico has been largely formed through 

 down-wash from the interior heights, but low-level limestones (with 

 little doubt of Cretaceous age) appear in places beneath the cap- 

 ping of volcanic sand and boulders. Marine Tertiary strata seem 

 to be restricted to the northern portion of the Gulf plain, and to 

 point off rapidly after leaving the Rio Grande. No marine Terti- 

 ary strata are known from the plateau region. 



7. The Cretaceous sea swept continuously across the Republic 

 from what is now the Gulf border to the Pacific, but strips or islands 

 of Azoic and Palaeozoic rock probably projected from this sea, much 

 as the peninsula of Lower California and the neighboring islands 

 to-day project from the Mexican Pacific. 



9. No true Lower Cretaceous beds exist (or have been so far iden- 

 tified) in either Texas or Arkansas, the Lower Cretaceous, so-called 

 (Comanche series, etc.), being not older than the Cenomanian (Mid- 

 dle or Upper Cretaceous). 



9. No marine deposits of unequivocally Lower Cretaceous age 

 have thus far been determined in the LTnited States east of the 

 Rocky Mountains. 



The earliest recognition of the existence of Cretaceous deposits in 

 Mexico is, I believe, contained in Galeotti's paper "Notice sur le 

 calcaire cretace des environs de Jalapa au Mexique," published in 

 the tenth volume of the Bulletin de la Societe Geologique de France 

 (pp. 31-39, 1839). Remarkably enough, this paper, although pre- 

 pared with much care and considerable detail, has been very gener- 

 ally overlooked by geologists, but in it the author strikes the key- 

 note to the geology of the greater part of the Republic. Galeotti's 

 researches cover various outcrops (" islets") of white, cream and 




1890.] NATUKAF, SCIKNCES OF PIIILADKLPHIA. 447 



blue limestones, which he h>cates as follows: — of Songuantla, at the 

 elevated base of the ( !ofre de Perote, two and a half leagues from 

 Jalapa ; the barranca (ravine) of Gilotepec, 4 leagues N. N. E. 

 of Jalapa ; the hacienda of Tusaniapa ; the barranca of Jalcomulco, 

 S. S. E. of Jalapa. These various outcrops, which in a general 

 way are said to trend W. N. W.— E. S. E. or W. by N.— E. by S., 

 with a steep pitch southward or southwestward, are on paleon- 

 tological grounds referred to a single horizon, which is considered 

 to be the partial equivalent of Dufrenoy's Cretaceous of southern 

 France. This determination rests on the discovery in the rocks of 

 fragments oi' Ammonites, Ostrea, Pecten, Cardium and Lucina, and 

 of various foraminiferal forms (3£iliola, Nodosaria, Nummulina). 



I strongly suspect that what are here referred to as fragments of 

 oysters are in part, at least, the remains of Hippiiritidce. These are 

 abundant in the limestone of Coatepec, of the same region, which I 

 examined, but I failed to find in that rock any true oysters; how- 

 ever, this is only negative testimony. The Hippuritida? there occur- 

 ring are sufficient evidence of the correctness of Galeotti's reference. 

 Less reliable, probably, is Galeotti's determination of his assumed 

 Nummulite, which he describes as Nujnviulina Song^iantlw (p. 85.) 

 No undoubted member of this group of organisms has thus far been 

 found in any Cretaceous deposit, and it is likely that the present re- 

 ference rests on an erroneous interpretation of the fossil in question. 

 Galeotti's figure (Bulletin, Plate X, fig. 6) can scarcely represent a 

 Nummulite, and, indeed, he himself compares it with Nummulina 

 lenticitla, presumably of Defrance, which is now known to be an 

 Amphistegina. D'Archiac is probably correct in referring the 

 species to the genus Cristellaria.^ 



In the year following the publication of the paper above mentioned 

 appeared a joint paper by Nyst and Galeotti "Sur quelques fossiles 

 du calcaire jurassique de Tehuacan, au Mexique.'^ " The authors de- 

 scribe a number of fossils from a locality in the " Cordillere d'Ana- 

 huac," some 12 leagues W. N. W. of Tehuacan, and from an eleva- 

 tion of some 4000-7000 feet above the sea. The region is one of gray 

 and brown limestones, and said to be exceedingly rich in organic re- 

 mains. Indeed, it is questioned whether there exists another region 



^ Description des Animaux Fossiles du Groupe Nummulitique de I'Inde, pp. 

 36 and 163. 



^ Bulletin de I'Academie Royale des Sciences de Bruxelles, VII, 1840, pp. 

 212-21. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890- 



on the earth's surface which in an equal area abounds so largely in 

 fossil remains (p. 220). The abundance of fragments of large 

 Ammonites, supposed to measure from 50 to 60 centimetres in 

 diameter, is especially commented upon. 



With due deference to the learning and experience of the authors, 

 I am constrained to believe that the formation in question is'tiotof 

 Jurassic age, but Cretaceous, and I may add, late Cretaceous. It is 

 true, I have not been in the precise region described by Nyst and 

 Galeotti, but my observations extend around and about it in vari- 

 ous directions, and I have nowhere in the limestone region found 

 any good indications of Jurassic fossils. Cretaceous forms, on the 

 other hand, are very abundant, and just in the mountains of Tehua- 

 can do they appear in great numbers. Furthermore, the fossils of 

 Tehuacan, from the region of the large quarries of Mexican onyx, 

 are almost precisely identical with those (Hippurites, Radiolites, 

 etc.) which I have seen in the limestones of Coatepec (Jalapa), of 

 Atoyac, the Cerro de Escamela, near the town of Orizaba, of Apasco, 

 Yautepec, Coalcoman (in Michoacan), etc., showing the broad ex- 

 tent of an identical formation. Nyst and Galeotti in the memoir 

 above cited describe twelve species of fossils — Trigonia plicato- 

 costata, Ostrea acuticosta, 0. similis, Cerithhwi suturosum, C. Busta- 

 mentii, C. cingulatum, Terebra minnta, Ammonites Rioii, A. re- 

 conditus, Cidarites propinquue, C. pustidosus, and C. glandiferus — 

 and it is upon the supposed relationships of these that the reference 

 to the Jurassic formation is made. Cidarites propinquus (Miinster) 

 and C. glandiferus (Goldfuss) are considered to be well-known species 

 from the Jurassic deposits of Germany. The figures illustrating the 

 above are apparently faithfully drawn, but I fail to find anything in 

 them which would indicate that they deal with Jurassic, rather 

 than with Cretaceous, fossils. Trigonia pi icato-costata, which appears 

 to be one of the most abundant of the fossils occurring in the region 

 under consideration, represents a well-recognized Upper Cretaceous 

 type of Trigonia, that of T. alcpformis and T. scahricola, and is far 

 removed from the distinctive Jurassic forms. Indeed, Nyst and 

 Galeotti themselves recognize the relationship with the first-named, 

 from which they distinguish it by the character of the costal orna- 

 mentation. While I am not certain that the Mexican species is 

 really distinct, yet, in the absence of specimens for direct compar- 

 ison, it may be well to consider it so. But I believe there can be no 

 doubt as to the horizon which it represents. D'Orbigny, in his 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Prodrome de Paleoiitologie, ' has already corrected the error of Nyst 

 and Galeotti, and transferred the species to the Upper Cretaceous 

 horizon (his Senonien), where likewise it is placed by Lycett in his 

 "Monograph of the British Fossil Trigonife."^ 



As regards Ammonites Jlioii, which Nyst and Galeotti compare 

 with ^4. subradiatas (Sovverby) and A. complanatus (Mantell) — the 

 former a Jurassic species, and the latter first described from the Cre- 

 taceous marls of Sussex — there can be no question that the relation- 

 ship is most intimate with the last named. Ammonites subradiatus 

 is a distinctly carinated species, whereas the Mexican form has an 

 evenly rounded dorsum. Again, Ammonites reconditus manifestly 

 represents the type of A. Duvdlianns, D'Orbigny, from the Creta- 

 ceous deposits of France,' and is in no wise a Jurassic form. D'Or- 

 bigny has correctly interpreted the aspect of the Mexican Ammoni- 

 tes by referring them to his Senonian horizon.* 



I can speak with less certainty regarding the two species of sea- 

 urchin which Nyst and Galeotti identify with Cidarites propinquns 

 of Miinster, and C. glandijerus of Goldfuss, since the drawings of 

 the species are not sufficiently precise to permit of absolute determi- 

 nations being made from them. But the form which, from the shape 

 of its spines, is referred to C. glandiferus, appears to be at least as 

 nearly related to the well-known Cretaceous C. clavlgera of Kiinig, 

 whose multiform spines are so largely scattered through the deposits 

 of the Chalk. Cidarites pustulosus is probably a Pseudodiadema} 



The data that have here been given will probably be considered 



1 Vol. II, p. ii40. No. 605. 



2 Palaeontographical Society Reports (Fossil Trigonia;), 1872-79, pp. 181 and 

 229. 



3 D'Orbigny, Paleontologie Francaise, Terrains Cretaces, Atlas, I, pi. 50, 

 figs. 4, 5. 



4 Prodr. de Paleont., II, p. 214. 



* Since the above was written I have received folios 16-20 of vol. XVIII 

 (3rd series) of the Bulletin de la Soc. Geol. de France (1890), containing Cotteau's 

 article : " Notes sur quelques Echinides du terrain Cretace du Mexique." The 

 author reviews the species described by Nyst and Galeotti, and finds their determi- 

 nations erroneous. The form referred to Cidarites propinqwis of Miinster, is an 

 altogether different species ; the so-called Cidarites glandiferus \sz. Psetidocidaris, 

 related to P. clunifera and P. mamniosa ; and Cidarites pustulosus is either Pseu- 

 docidaris or Diplopodia (related to D, \_Pseudodiadenia'\ Afalbosi). Cotteau con- 

 cludes, from the (acies of the echinoid fauna, that the formation which it repre- 

 sents is Cretaceous, and not Jurassic (p. 293). 



30 




450 TKOCKKDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP" [1890. 



amply sufficient for relegating the inountaiu deposits of the region 

 under consideration to the Cretaceous formation ; and Gabb implies 

 as much in a prefatory I'emark contained in his report on a collec- 

 tion of fossils fnwn near Arivechi, State of Sonora.^ In this report 

 the author clearly establishes the existence of Cretaceous deposits in 

 the northern part of the Republic, and draws attention to the close 

 connection existing between the contained fossils and those from the 

 Cretaceous of Texas. Much more marked, on the other hand, is the 

 variation from the Californian fossils of approximately the same 

 horizon.'' 



Mr. Gabb records the following fossils from the deposits of Arive- 

 chi : 



Ammonites Pedernalis, Von Buch. — Species also occurring in the 

 Cretaceous of Texas. 

 Fusus Mexicanus, Gabb. 



Limatia Pedernalis, Roemer. — Also found in Texas. 

 Euspira tabulata, Gabb. 

 Chemnitzia zebra, Gabb. 

 C. Texana, Roemer. — Cretaceous of Texas. 

 Tylostoma mutabilis, Gabb. 

 Anchura ynonilifera, Gabb. 

 Cerithium Mexicanum, Gabb. 

 Tarritella seriatim-gramdata, Roemer. — Texas. 

 Angaria (Delphinnla) cingulata, Gabb. 

 Cinnlia redilabruvi, Gabb. 

 Pholadomya So)ioriensis, Gabb. 

 Tapes Hilgardi, Shuraai'd. — Cretaceous of Texas. 

 Cardium {Granocardium) subulosuvi, Gabb. 

 C. (Protocardium) granulifermn, Gabb. 

 Cardita ? alticosta, Gabb. 

 Pinna sp. indet. 



1 Geological Survey of California, Paleontology, II, p. 258. 



2 A preliminary notice of the Sonoran fossils was published in vol. Ill of the 

 Proceedings of the California Academy of Sciences, 1864, p. 153 The fossilifer- 

 ous rock, as described by M. Remond, lies about a league and a half east of Arivechi 

 in the Sahuaripa Valley, and consists of clay-slates, 400-500 ft. in thickness, rest- 

 ing upon barren sandstones, and underlying thick strata of compact bluish lime- 

 stone. " The strata dip to the south-east with an inclination of from thirty to fifty 

 degrees, and form the first range of foot-hills of the Sierra Madre." 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Trigonia Mooreana, Gabb. — Cretaceous of Texas. 

 (^Trigonid cremilata, Roemer). 



Remondia f areata, Gabb. 



Gryphea mucronata, Gabb. 



Exngyra plicata, Lam. — Cretaceous of Texas. 



Ostrea sp. indet. 



Pyrina Parryi, Hall. — Cretaceous of Texas. 



Cyphosoma Texanitni, Roemer. — Cretaceous of Texas. 



Tarbinolia !' Texana, Conrad. — Cretaceous of Texas. 



There can be no question, it appears to me, that these fossils re- 

 present, as Gabb also supposed, a part of the Upper Cretaceous 

 formation, synchronous with at least some of the deposits described 

 by Roemer from Texas (Senonian or Turonian). Most of the species 

 are beautifully, or, perhaps more properly, artistically, figured in 

 Gabb's report, but in many cases the artistic effort renders determina- 

 tion from them all but impossible. Having had the type-series 

 under my eye among the collections of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences I venture to subjoin the following notes on species, in antic- 

 ipation of a more extended report which it is my intention to 

 prepare at a future day. 

 Ammonites Pedernalis, Von Bueh. 



I am not sure that the form here described is really Von Buch's 

 species. Gabb calls attention to the flattened dorsum in distinction 

 to the sharp back of the typical A. Pedernalis, but remarks that he 

 has observed variation in this respect. But whether the form or 

 not, it certainly represents the group which Von Buch has designated 

 " Cretaceous Ceratitic xVmmonites."^ In Gabb's figure (PI. 35, fig. 1, 

 la) the folds on the surface are much too numerous and regular; 

 not more than one-half the number appear in the single type-spec- 

 imen, and they are more in the nature of " swellings " than true 

 plications. A portion of the inner whorl that is exposed is entirely 

 destitute of these folds, and shows the ceratitic markings very 

 clearly. 



1 Ueber Ceratiten — Von Buch's Gesammelte Schriften, II, p. 871, Berlin, 

 1885. The species is referred by Neumayr and Uhlig to the group Engonoceras 

 (Ueber Ammonitiden aus den Hilsbildungen Norddeutschlands, Palreontographica, 

 1881, p. 138), while by Douville, wlio more accurately represents the sutural con- 

 figuration, it is placed in Sphenodisciis i Classification des Ceratiiesde la Craie, Bull. 

 Soc. Gecl. de France, ]8!)U, pp. 288-89.) 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890- 



Gryphaea mucronata. 



I see no reason to separate this species from Gryphcea navia Con- 

 rad ( G. Pifcherl f Morton), despite the points of difference indica- 

 ted by Gabb. Dr. White, in his review of the " Fossil Ostreidse of 

 North America," has correctly referred it to that species.' 



Cardita alticosta. 



This species is unrecognizably figured. The radiating ribs are 

 in nearly all cases prominently echinated — instead of being smooth 

 — and they are placed much closer to one another than appears in 

 the drawing. As the specific name alticosta is preoccupied by a 

 well-known fossil from the Tertiary deposits of the United States 

 (^Cardita alticosta Conrad -f C. Blandiiigi), I would propose for the 

 Mexican species the name Cardita Arivechensis. 



Trigonia Mooreana. 



Gabb is right in separating Roemer's Trigonia crenidata of Texas 

 from the true Trigonia crenulata of Europe. The closely placed 

 ribs of the latter, and its deep lunular groove, serve readily to dis- 

 tinguish it from Trigonia Mooreana. 



Bemondia furcata. 



This peculiar trigonioid species, for which Gabb created the new 

 genus Remondia, is seemingly closely related to Astarte Bronnii, of 

 Krauss, from the Cretaceous deposits of South Africa.^ I know of 



1 4th Annual Report Director U. S. Geol. Survey, 1884, p. 302. As regards 

 the species or varieties of grypheate oysters occurring in the Cretaceous deposits 

 of the southern United States, and known as Gryphea Pitcheri, G. dilaiata, G. na- 

 via, G. Tucumcarrii anA G. Washitaensis, I beheve they are all referable to a sin- 

 gle, or at most, two species — Gryphea Pitcheri (Morton) and G. navia (Conrad). 

 Whether or not these two should be considered distinct, will depend upon the 

 view of species which each paleontologist holds. They are certainly very closely 

 inter-related, and I believe that Dr. White is right in recognizing only G. Pitcheri 

 and G. Pitcheri var. navia [Loc. cit. pp. 302-3. Gryphea Pitcheri was first de- 

 scribed from the Cretaceous deposits of Arkansas, and not from New Jersey, as 

 is sometimes assumed). Roemer's figures (Plate IX, figs, la, b, c — Krei- 

 dehildungen von Texas, 1852) represent the variety navia, as do likewise figs. 5 

 and 6 of Marcou's Plate IV (Geology of North America, 1858). Gryphea Wash- 

 itaenns of Hill (Annotated Check List Cretac. Invert. Fossils Texas, Bulletin 4, 

 Geol. Survey of Texas, p. 4, 1889), specimens of which Professor Hill has kindly 

 sent to me, is true G. Pitcheri, corresponding almost absolutely with the type 

 specimen of that species (Morton's) which is contained in the collections of the 

 Academy of Natural Sciences. 



* Nova Acta Acad. Cresar. Leop. Carol., XXII, p. 449, pi. 48, figs. 1, a, b 

 c, d, e. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIKNCK.S OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



no other form that approaches it. Zittel refers both species to the 

 genus Remondia.^ 



Chemnitzia zebra. 



This species is poorly drawn. The spire broadens out consider- 

 ably more than is represented in the figure (pi. 35, fig. 5), and the 

 whorls are almost flat-sided. 



Anchura monilifera. 



The figure-measure (pi. 35, fig. 7) is considerably larger than the 

 specimen actually figured, and it exceeds by about one-sixth the lar- 

 gest specimen in the collection. 



Euspira tabulata. 



Gabb states that this species " looks much more like a Jurassic 

 than like a Cretaceous species" (p. 260). I cannot concur in this 

 opinion. The Academy collections contain specimens of Natlca sub- 

 bulbijorinis D'Orb., from the Cretaceous deposits (Turonian) of 

 Uchaux, France, which are barely distinguishable from the Mexi- 

 can form. 



Natica Pedernalis, as it is represented on Plate 35, fig. 3, does not 

 exist. The figure is compounded from two fossils, which have little 

 in common with one another, and seemingly represent two distinct 

 genera. . The specimen which gives the outline to the drawing is 

 very imperfect and shows no trace of an umbilicus. I doubt much 

 if it is even a member of the Naticidoe.. The second form is a true 

 Natica, which may or may not be Roemer's N. Pedernalis, the type 

 cast of which does not permit of the identification of the species. 

 The Mexican specimen, although somewhat distorted, is perfectly 

 preserved, and I cannot understand how Gabb could have con- 

 founded it with the form which he erroneously describes and figures 

 as Natica Pedernalis. 



Neither the material published by Gabb, nor the somewhat more 

 extended note on the formation which is furnished by Remond,^ is 

 suflBcient to allow us to state positively whether the deposits in 

 question are absolutely synchronous with those of Jalapa and 

 Tehuacan or not. Probably they represent a somewhat lower stage 

 of the Cretaceous and are the quivalent of a portion of the Ceno- 

 manian. By Dr. White the beds are correlated with the Comanche 



1 Handbuch der Palseonlologie, II, p. 58. 



* Notice of Geological Explorations in Northern Mexico — Proc. California 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Ill, pp. 5 and 11, 1866. 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



or lower series of the Texan Cretaceous/ but the position of these 

 beds in the true geological scale is not stated. Roeiner referred all 

 the Cretaceous deposits of the State of Texas to the Turonian and 

 Senonian of D'Orbigny, but Prof Hill, as the result of more recent 

 surveys, places the Comanche series in the Lower Cretaceous forma- 

 tion.^ This determination is, it appears to me, erroneous, and 

 is not borne out by the lists of fossils which are given by Prof. 

 Hill. The deposits may strictly be the Lower Cretaceous of 

 America, but they are not the correspondents of what is recognized 

 as the Lower Cretaceous of geologists generally, inasmuch as they 

 represent a horizon at least as high up in the series as the 

 Cenomanian (not Neocomiau, as stated by Hill). It isonly necessary 

 to name a few of the species indicated by Prof Hill as occurring in 

 the formation to be convinced of the true (comparatively high) posi- 

 tion of the horizon : Exogyra Matheroniana, Ostrea carinata, Peeten 

 cequicostatus, Peden quadricostatus (?), Protocardia Hillamim, etc., 

 all well-known European forms, and mostly distinctive of the 

 Cenomanian horizon. In addition to these forms Janira Fleuri- 

 awsmnrt, of D'Orbigny, also a Cenomanian form, is enumerated in 

 one of the lists.^ Prof. Hill refers to a species of Crioceras {Ancylo- 

 ceras) as indicating the Neocomian horizon, but the form in question 

 has been identified by Prof. Hyatt with Lituites Bkkvioreanus, from 

 the Niagara (Silurian) limestone of Indiana ; * nor is the generaliza- 

 tion correct that the presence of Rudistes, Nerinreas, Pleurotomarias, 

 and Globiconchas " while not decisive, is corroborative of the low 

 position of the Comanche series." * If the word " high " were sub- 

 stituted for "low " the generalization would have been more nearly 

 correct. It is stated that " it was chiefly upon the evidence of the 

 Exogyra Texana and the Ostrea carinata that Roemer made this 

 Comanche series belong to the Upper Chalk of Europe." This is 

 hardly the fact. Roemer rightly emphasizes the presence in the for- 

 mation of Cardium. HiUanum and Peden quadricostatus — European 

 Upper Cretaceous species — and of the following analogues of the 

 Upper Cretaceous species : Adceonella dolium (representing^. Icevis), 



1 Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, Phila. 1887, p. 43. 



2 Check List Cret. Inv. Foss, Texas, 1889; Am. Jouin. Science, 1887, pp. 

 303-307. 



3 Am. Journ. Science, 1887, part 2, p. 303. 



4 Hill, Check List, p. 21. 



5 Am. Jouni. Science, 1887, part. 2, p. 307. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Arcopagia Texana (rep. ^1. numismalis), Card'mm Sanctl Sabce (rep. 

 C. caiidatum), Avlcula convexo-plana (rep. A. anomala), Exogyra 

 Texana (rep. E. 3fafheroniana), and C'ljphosoma Texanum (rep. C. 

 tiara). Toxaster Texanus appeared to this observer to be the only 

 fossil indicative of a low horizon.^ 



The cumulative evidence that we have, thus tends to prove that 

 the Comanche beds of Texas occupy a horizon not lower than the 

 Cenomanian ; in other words, they are a part correspondent to what 

 some geologists recognize as the Middle Cretaceous, and what others, 

 who admit but two divisions in the formation, class as Upper Cre- 

 taceous. The}'^ are distinctly not Lower Cretaceous (or Neocomian) 

 and this lower member of the series has still to be found iu the 

 United States east of the Rocky Mountains.'^ The opposing evidence 

 of the single Echinoid, Toxaster, counts for little in this connection.* 



M. Virlet d'Aoust in a paper " Coup d'oeil sur la Topographic et 

 la Geologic du Mexique et de I'Amerique Centrale," mentions the 

 occurrence of a Hippuritic limestone, containing numerous Echin- 

 oids, near Tula, State of Hidalgo, about 40 miles north of the city 

 of Mexico.* Without doubt this is a portion of the limestone, rich 



^ Kreidebildungen von Texas, p. 18. 



~ Prof. Hill appears to have been, to a certain extent, misled in his correlation 

 of the Texas and Arkansas Cretaceous deposits through an unfortunate error 

 which is contained in Prof Whitfield's Report on the " Brachiopoda and Lamelli- 

 branchiata of the Raritan Clays and Greensand Marls of New Jersey" (Monogr. 

 U. S. Geol. Survey, 1885). It is there stated that Exogyra costala occurs only in 

 the "Lower Marl Beds" of the State (pp. XVIII, 41), and this assertion is ac- 

 cepted by Hill (A. J. Science, 1889, part 2, p. 472 — " Relations of the Uppermost 



^ Cotteau has recently described or recorded a number of Echinoids, from 

 various parts nf Mexico, which he considers lo be indicative of the Lower Creta- 

 ceous horizon (Bulletin Soc. Geol. de France, 1890, pp. 1^92-99 — Echinides Cre- 

 taces du Mexique). These are: Pseudocidaris Satisstcrei, from San-Juan Ray a, 

 in the State of Puebla; Salenia prestensis, from Guadalupe, Chihuahua; Eiiallas- 

 ter Mexicantis, from Guadalupe (Chihuahua) and Colima (Colinia); Diplopodia 

 {^Pseudodiadema) Malhosi, from Arivechi, .Sonora and Holecfypus Castilloi, from 

 Jalpa, Jalisco. The last named species is considered to represent either the Low- 

 er or the Middle Cretaceous. Pseudocidaris Saussurei occurs also in the deposits 

 of Tehuacan. and is the form which Nyst and Galeotti erroneously referred to Cid- 

 aris glandiferus of Goldfuss; the species is thus manifestly Upper Cretaceous. 

 Again, the so-called Diplopodia Malbosi, which is identified from two imperfect 

 specimens, both oC which differ in certain characters from typical representatives 

 of that species, is admitted to be " assurement voisine de Diplopodia variolaris'''' 

 (Cotteau, loc. cit., p. 294), which is also a distinctively Upper Cretaceous species. 



4 Bull. Soc. Geol. de France, 1866, p. 23. 




4oG PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



iu Hipi)uritic remains, which crops out at Apasco, and which has 

 been referred to by Ramirez iu his " jNIemoria para la Carta Geol- 

 ogica del Distrito de Zumpango."^ I have seeu the fossils from this 

 region, and am satisfied that they are largely identical with those 

 found in the Hippuritic limestones on the south side of the Mexican 

 plateau, in the mountains of Tehuacan and of Yautepec. Virlet 

 d'Aoust mentions the occurrence of broadly-distributed beds con- 

 taining Ananchytes sulcata, but it has not been my good fortune to 

 meet with this very characteristic fossil of the Chalk (Senonian), 

 nor have I seen it in any of the collections of Mexican fossils. 



Without doubt the limestone of Tula and Apasco is identical with 

 that which Biircena has recorded as occurring in Queretaro, and in 

 the districts of Yolotepec, Zimapan and Jacala, iu the State of 

 Hidalgo, where the rock contains impressions of Hippurites, Radio- 

 lites and Nerinseas.^ That this is a part of the true typical Upper 

 Cretaceous formation, the character of the fossil remains, it appears to 

 me, abundantly proves. Biircena, while recognizing the Cretaceous 

 age of the formation, mentions the occurrence in it of a supposed Ju- 

 rassic fossil, Nerimea hieroglyphica. The same fossil was also found 

 by Barcena, associated with Hippurites, Radiolites (referred to as 

 Crania), etc., in the rock of the Cave of Cacahuamilpa, in the north- 

 ern part of the State of Guerero, and the distinguished Mexican 

 geologist was originally led to conclude from this occurrence that 



Cretaceous Beds of the Eastern and Southern United States;" "The Neozoic 

 Geology of Southwestern Arkansas," Report Geol. Siirv. Arkansas, 1888, p, 106). 

 The statement is, however, erroneous : Exogyra coslata is an abundant fossil of 

 the red sands which underlie or form the base of the Middle Marl Bed (as may 

 be seen in the section at Mullica Hill), where it is associated with Gryphea vesicu- 

 laris, Belemnitella mucronata, etc. Its position, in fact, is very near to the top of 

 the Cretaceous series of the State. 



It is much to be regretted that American geologists so persistently use the al- 

 most meaningless terms " upper" and "lower" as applied to formations occurring 

 in special localities, without determining or stating the relations of such terms in a 

 general geological classification. This indiscriminate use of broad subdivisions 

 cannot but lead to confusion. How often we hear mention of Lower, Middle and 

 Upper Cretaceous deposits of New Jersey, when in reality beds referable only to 

 the Senonian and Daman (possibly also the Turonian) — consequently, equivalents 

 only of the higher Cretaceous of the continent of Europe and of England — are in- 

 tended; indeed, a Jurassic deposit has even cropped up in the same StatC) 



1 Anales del Ministeriode Fomento, Mexico. 



2 Anales del Ministerio de Fomento, Mexico, 1, 1877, p. 349. 




1890.] NATTKAL SCIENCES OE rilll.A DEEl'HIA. 457 



the fornmtion in question represented a transition bed between the 

 Jurassic and Cretaceous systems.^ I am not acquainted with the 

 species to which the form figured^ by Barcena is referred, nor am I 

 able to determine its special Jurassic features. On the other hand, 

 I have identiiied the same species, associated with an abundance of 

 Hippurites and with Nerinoea Castilli (Barcena), in the limestone 

 of the Cerro de Escamela, near the town of Orizaba, whose position 

 in the Upper Cretaceous series (Senonian) is well established. The 

 fragment from the same region which Barcena doubtfully refers to 

 Nerincea GoodhaUl (Jurassic) is much too imperfect for recognition. 

 Ramirez has identified, as he believes, the limestone of Apasco in 

 the Sierra Mojada of Coahuila, which' would carry the formation 

 close on to the Texan frontier. The determination is based largely upon 

 the recognition in both localitiesof an identical species of Hippurite, 

 which the author figures.' The form certainly appears identical 

 with a species which I have myself collected in the southern mountains, 

 and which is also reported from Tancanhuitz, in the State of San 

 Luis Potosi. It seems to me possible, however, that a portion of the 

 Sierra Mojada limestone may represent a somewhat lower horizon, 

 the Cenomanian (=rthe formation of Arivechi, in Sonora), but the 

 data on this ])oint are still obscure. Ramirez enumerates and 



since a local bed, containing some fossil remains less Cretaceous in aspect than 

 those found in the upper beds, has been found to underlie the so-called Lower Cre- 

 taceous. Dr. White, in his valuable paper on the " Lower Cretaceous of the 

 Southwest" (Am. Journ. Science, 1889, 2nd part, p. 440), well recognizes that 

 the Lower Cretaceous of that section of the United States is not the equivalent of 

 the Lower Cretaceous of Europe, and it is therefore the more to be regretted that 

 he makes use of a classification which cannot be of general application. The con- 

 fusion arising from such loose classification is immediately shown in the conclu- 

 sions that are deduced from it. Thus, being Lower Cretaceous (in the American 

 sense), Dr, White seeks for the equivalents of the Comanche series in the Lower 

 Cretaceous of Europe, and it is perhaps not surprising that " we cannot say with 

 confidence that the Comanche series really represents any one of the divisions of 

 the European Cretaceous from the Gault to the Lower Neocomian inclusive" {loc. 

 cit., p. 442). Assuredly not, since the deposits in question lie above the European 

 Lower Cretaceous, and are, as I have shown, not older than the Cenomanian. 



1 Viaje a la Caverna de Cacahuamilpa, p. 17, Me.\ico, 1874. 



2 Datos para el Estudio de las Rocas Mesozoicas de Mexico, p. 12, 1875; 

 Materiales para la Formacion de una Obra de Paleontologia Mexicana, Anales del 

 Museo Nacional de Mexico, 1877, p. 201. 



3 Exploracion en la Sierra Mojada — Anales del Ministeriode Fomento, 1880, 

 pi. l.fig. 1. 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



figures a number of fossils, some of which at least, seem to more 

 nearly represent the Middle Cretaceous than the Upper Cretaceous 

 system. Such is the Ammonite referred to Ammonites inflatus, which 

 it really appears to be. The second form of Ammonite, which is 

 identified with Ammonites planicostatus, is hardly that species, if the 

 drawing is at all to be relied upon ; the broad back and crowded 

 costse distinguish it from the well-known European species. It seems 

 to be more nearly a member of the group of A. Mantelli, if indeed, 

 it is not that species. The large gasteropod, which is identified with 

 Pterodonta inflata (Ceuomanian), is scarcely in a condition to be 

 determined ; it may, or may not, be that species, or it maybe a true 

 Tylostoma. Ramirez also figures (and comments upon its occurrence 

 here) a Posidonomya, but the imperfect drawing does not permit the 

 form to be recognized, or to be distinguished from a young Ino- 

 ceramus. 



I am not aware that the great limestone formation of South- 

 Central Mexico has been identified in the northern part of the 

 Republic east of the Sierra Mojada region, except along the im- 

 mediate borders of the Rio Grande. It is more than likely that it 

 outcrops in the State of Nuevo Leon, as Dr. White has evidence for 

 believing,^ but I know of no positive statement to that effect. The 

 supposed Cretaceous which Wislizenus describes as being found near 

 Mier, on the Alamo River, about four miles above its discharge into 

 the Rio Grande^ (State of Tamaulipas), is Tertiary, and with little 

 doubt either Miocene or Oligocene. The large oyster occurring 

 there is manifestly the species which is referred to by Penrose as 

 occurring on the Rio Grande, near Roma, Texas, and is doubtfully 

 identified with Conrad's Ostrea Georgiana:^ 



The oyster is, however, not Ostrea Georglana, but a much more 

 ponderous form, and one which is barely to be distinguished from 

 Ostrea Gingensis, of Schlotheim, a giant species of the Miocene de- 

 posits of continental Europe ; the specimen in my possession meas- 

 ures a foot in length and fully six inches in width. Dr. Penrose is, 

 I believe, justified in (doubtfully) referring the beds in which it oc- 

 curs to the base of the Grand Gulf Series ; the horizon represented 

 is surely above the Eocene. 



1 Am. Journ. Science, 1889, part 2, p. 441. 



2 Memoir of a Tour to Northern Mexico, U. S. Senate Publications, 1848, p. 



138. 



First Annual Report, Geo). Surv. Texas, 1889, pp. 46, 50, 56. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Dr. White mentions' the occurrence of heavy depoi^its of hard 

 blue limestone of the Comanche series in the Sierra San Carlos, in 

 the State of Chihuahua, 75 miles southeastward of Presidio del 

 Norte ; the beds are here said to have a thickness of not less than 

 4000 feet, and are thrown into a nearly vertical position, with the 

 so-called "Upper" Cretaceous beds lying conformably on their east- 

 ern face. It is probably from the lower portion of this series that 

 Wislizenus obtained (tlirough presentation) the Peden qninque-cos- 

 tatus (Cenomanian), Avhich was reported to have come from a local- 

 ity, near Corralitas, "about 250 miles northwest of Chihuahua."' 



The numerous localities that have here been cited for the occur- 

 rence of Cretaceous fossils on and beyond the Mexican plateau in- 

 dicate the broad range over which the deposits of the period -were 

 laid down ; there can be little or no question that all the outcrops 

 that have been observed are either now united continuously with one 

 another, or had been so united during the time of their formation 

 and uplift. The great volcanic outpourings which followed the 

 catastrophic uplift have largely obscured the giant masses of the 

 formations, whose full forms are still so beautifully displayed along 

 the eastern and southern edges of the plateau, but we find the con- 

 nections in the scattered islands or oases of rock which have from 

 time to time been noted in the interior states. 



The preceding references cover outcrops in the States of Sonora, 

 Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon (?), San Luis Potosi, Hidalgo, 

 Vera Cruz, Puebla, Mexico, Morelos and Guerero, but the forma- 

 tion has also been identified in Jalisco, Colima,^ Zacatecas (at Noria 

 de Angeles, Fresnillo, Veta Grande, etc., along the spurs or exten- 

 sions of the Asientos Mountains of Aguascalientes), Aguascalientes 

 (district of the Cerro de Temascal, the Asientos Mountains),* Que- 

 retaro (district of the " Doctor"), and Michoacan (district of Coal- 

 coman).^ Over all this area there is a remarkable similarity in the 



1 Am. Joiiin. Science, 1889, part 2, p. 444. 



^ Op. cit., p. 138. 



3 On the authority of Antonio del Castillo, as stated by Barcena — Datos para 

 el Estudio de las Rocas Mesozoicas de Mexico, p. 34. 



* Barcena, Noticia Geologica del Estado de Aguascalientes, 1876, p. 2. 



^ Urquiza, Exploracion del Distrito de Coalcoman, Estado de Michoacan — 

 Anales del Ministerio de Fomento, VII, 1882. The fossils found in this region 

 have been referred by Urquiza to Hipptirites hioculata, H. calami (if ortnis, H. Mex- 

 icana, Radiolites turbinattis, R. foliacetis ? Astarte sp. indet., Pecten sp. indet.. 




460 PUOUEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



general lithological features of the formation — which is largely com- 

 posed of massive cream, gray and blue (partially bituminous) lime- 

 stones and marbles — and in the fossils which they contain. The 

 rocks over the greater part of their extent pitch at steep angles, but 

 in some districts they dip regularly and evenly over long distances; 

 in others they are badly folded and dislocated, and rapidly alter- 

 nate in inversions and fractures. This condition is especially well 

 marked on the eastern face of the plateau, and can be seen at many 

 points along the line of the Mexican Railway between the Boca del 

 Monte and Nogales. In the deep gorge of the Infierno, below Mal- 

 trata, the effects of crushing are exhibited on a wonderful scale. 

 The predominant strike of the formation seems to be N. W. — S. E., 

 with dips both to the eastward and to the westward, and it is carried 

 along this line, or in a direction more nearly north-and-south, in the 

 long declining ridges (as in the mountains of Tehuacan and Yaute- 

 pec) which continue the formation of the plateau into the lowland 

 beyond the southern scarp. In the first range of elevations facing 

 the Gulf, as I observed in the Chiquihuite Mountains near Atoyac, 

 the strike is directed N. E. — S. W. (with a steep dip to the south- 

 east), the limestone ridge trending off in the direction of the foot- 

 hills east of Jalapa ; possibly the special forces which built up the 

 giant trio of volcanoes situated on the eastern edge of the plateau — 

 Orizaba, the Sierra Negra and the Cofre de Perote — were the deter- 

 mining factors in producing this change in position. In the Atoyac 

 or Chiquihuite range the limestones are of a cream color, heavily 

 bedded, and compact in texture, much resembling in places litho- 

 graphic stone. 



For a long time I searched in vain for fossil remains in these rocks, 

 but eventually discovered, both above and below the town of Ato- 

 yac, a number of beds of limited extent which were densely charged 

 with organic fragments. Their condition of preservation was in 

 most cases too unsatisfactory to permit of either specific or generic 

 identification, but I determined the outlines of several Hippuritidse, 



Gryphea sp. indet., Nerinaa Castilli, N. hieroglyphica, Pterodonta sp. indet., and 

 among corals, Trochoseris sinuosa and Thamnastraa pediinctdata. From per- 

 sonal knowledge I can say but little regarding these determinations. The identi- 

 fication of the HippuritidiB and the Nerinceas is probably in the main correct. I 

 have myself observed the foimer in the rock of Coalcoman, and Barcena mentions 

 Radiolites MendozcB {=^R. foliaceus ?), in association with Hippurites and Neri- 

 naa Castilli, as occuring in the State (Anales del Museo Nacional, 1877). The 

 determinations of the species of coral are, with little doubt, erroneous. 




1890.] NATURAL. SCIENCES OF I'HILADELl'HIA. 461 



as well as of their finely striated cortical surfaces. The latter in 

 section much resemble some of the giant Foraniinifera, while the 

 cups, where they partially protrude from the rock, strikingly recall 

 the rugose corals. I have little doubt that it is from these resem- 

 blances that some of the Mexican (Cretaceous) limestones have from 

 time to time been referred to the Paleozoic period, and it was some- 

 time before I could myself determine the precise nature of the fossils 

 which it was my good fortune to discover. No mention of their 

 occurrence in these rocks is, so far as I am aware, made by any ear- 

 lier investigator. The discovery is particularly interesting since it 

 helps to delimit the eastern boundary of the Cretaceous deposits at a 

 point far removed from the actual crest of the plateau. To what 

 extent these same rocks extend Gulf-ward beneath the capping of 

 lava, boulders and volcanic sand which fills in the basal plain east 

 of the first true range of mountains, I could not ascertain. But it 

 is certain that the limestone is largely developed in these eastern 

 lowlands, and it is more than probable that the outcrops which 

 appear in and about the line of the Vera Cruz-Jalapa railroad, such 

 as I had occasion to observe at Plan del Rio, at an elevation of 

 about 1000 feet above the sea, are a continuation of the Atoyac 

 rock, just as the fossiliferous rocks about Jalapa and Coatepec are a 

 continuation of the rocks of Orizaba. I failed, however, to find any 

 trace of fossils in the rock of Plan del Rio, nor could I obtain any 

 positive information from the natives that any such fossils had been 

 found ; but the rock is lithologically very similar to that of Atoyac, 

 which is also largely non-fossiliferous, and it lies directly in the line 

 of strike of the Chiquihuite mountains — i. e. in a line parallel with 

 the eastern crest of this portion of the plateau. 



The Cordoba Mountains, which succeed the Chiquihuite range 

 westward, are without doubt a part of the same system of elevations 

 which begin with the latter as their lowest crest and culminate in 

 the chain, rising to a total elevation of some 8500 feet, which passes 

 southward from the plateau in the region of Esperanza. Being pro- 

 jections on the plateau itself, this chain presents the appearance of 

 insignificant hills, but the crests can be followed fifty or more miles 

 southward, along the declining valley of the Rio Salado, when the 

 full height of the mountains appears in thousands of feet of elevation. 



The typical fossiliferous strata of the Upper Cretaceous period are 

 beautifully exhibited in the steep beds of the Cerro de Escamela, 

 just outside of the town of Orizaba. Fossils are here very abund- 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ant, and they can be readily identified on the polished surfaces of 

 the marbles which are worked in the village of Nogales. I deter- 

 mined here various forms of Hippuritidte — Hlppuriies, Radiolites, 

 Ichthyosarcolithes — Nerincea Castilli, the species of Nerincea referred 

 to by Barcena as N. Meroglyphica and N. Goodhalli, a species of 

 Murex, a large Actceonella (?) or possibly Tylostoma, and the oyster 

 which Barcena has identified with Ostrea virgula. The Escamela 

 Mountain, as determined by Guillermo G. y Puga, rises 1417 feet 

 above the valley, or to absolute height of some 5800 feet. To the 

 opposite side of the town of Orizaba the Borrego presents a steep 

 face, some 800 feet in height, of heavily bedded blue limestones 

 whose general dip is to the south w'est. I found no fossils in this rock, 

 and I suspect that it belongs to a somewhat different horizon from 

 that of the gray marbles of the Cerro de Escamela, but I could not 

 absolutely satisfy myself as to its true relations. 



In the valleys leading out from Orizaba there are a vast series of 

 river deposits, which appear here and there exposed in massive 

 stratified beds of shingle, sand, and trap boulders. The section along 

 the Metlac, whose one face is bounded by limestone, well exhibits 

 this feature. But I could nowhere find any evidence of interbedding 

 with the limestone such as Guillermo G. y Puga represents in his 

 geological section along the line of the Mexican Railway from 

 Orizaba to Vera Cruz.^ These river deposits are all comparatively 

 recent, and can be traced almost completely across the coast-land to 

 the sea. 



Between Orizaba and the eastern crest of the plateau the lime- 

 stones, rising higher and higher, are exposed in almost continuous 

 section. In the deep gorge of the Infierno, below Maltrata, the 

 shattered and contorted beds form a wonderful exhibit, and bear 

 witness to the trenipndous strains that were impressed upon the 

 rock-masses at the time of their uplifting. It seems to me probable 

 that the mountains about here have sutiered secondary dislocation, 

 having been warped and twisted from a primal position through 

 successive volcanic squeezes and discharges. Along the northern 

 face of the gorge heavy beds of lava, representing probably an 

 early discharge from the Sierra Negra, rest directly upon the lime- 

 stone, which appears, however, to have suffered but little alteration 

 through contact with the igneous mass. Above Maltrata the rock- 



1 La Naturaleza, 1888, pp. 49-53. With little doubt the section was in- 

 advertently drawn in its present form to represent interbedding. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE I'HILADELEHIA. 463 



fnictures and dislocations follow rapidly on one another, and in 

 short intervals the beds assume all positions and reversions. No 

 more magnificent display of mountain architecture can be conceived 

 than that which is presented in the steep upper face of the plateau 

 scarp. In some places, as at Alta Luz, the strata become " flaggy," 

 and appear in thin shales verging on to slates. Possibly it is some 

 of this rock, having a clearly ancient look, which geologists have 

 from time to time considered as being Palteozoic. Dollfuss' men- 

 tions the occurrence of Palaeozoic strata near the Boca del Monte, 

 but I failed to find any such outcrop; and I am certain that the 

 series of PaUeozoic strata, from the Carboniferous to the Silurian, 

 which Packard mentions'" as outcropping between the eastern crest 

 of the great central plateau and the basal plain does not exist. 



For some distance after the summit of the plateau is reached, up 

 to and beyond the town of San Andres, the limestone appears in low 

 ridges trending southward, which ridges are but the backbones of 

 the main chain rising through the flat surface of the plateau. We 

 traced these seemingly low ridges southward to Tehuacan and 

 beyond, following in the line of the rapidly declining valley of the 

 Salado. With our descent from the plateau the hills, becoming more 

 and more exposed to their bases, rose majestically above us, and 

 were seen to constitute a true axial system of mountains, the inner 

 folds, manifestly, of the system which builds up the eastern face of 

 the plateau. Black cinder cones appear at intervals planted on 

 the white limestone. In the region immediately about Tehuacan, 

 the height of the ridges locally known as the Sierra de San Antonio 

 Tlascala and Sierra San Felipe Maderas cannot be less in places than 

 8000-9000 feet (absolute elevation). The dominant dip of the beds, 

 which outcrop in sharp lines on the eastern faces of the hillsides, is 

 westward, with varying angles. 



In the trough of the long sloping valley which leads southward 

 from the plateau vast deposits of detrital material have accumulated ; 

 masses of shingle and boulders, representing largely the debris from 

 the table-land, are exposed in all the stream-cuts, and build up 

 river-terraces of broad extent and distribution. Secondary lime 

 deposits, known as tepetate, have resulted from the re-deposition of 



^ Observations Geologiques, Arch. Comm. Scientifique du Mexique; Felix 

 und Lenk, Beilrage zur Geologic und Palaontologie der Re[mblik Mexico, p. 11, 

 1890. 



2 American Naturalist, XX, p. 122. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



of the higher volcanic ash-sands, or through simple precipita- 

 tion from waters highly charged with lime-carbonate. Much 

 of this deposit is strikingly firm and compact, and in parts so com- 

 pletely interwoven with the basal limestone of the region as to be 

 only with difficulty distinguished from it. Bones of one or more 

 forms of extinct elephant are found imbedded in the tepetate. 



From any of the eminences about Tehuacan the valley can be 

 traced southeastward very nearly to tiie limits of vision, with the 

 bounding ridges following in the same direction into the State of 

 Oaxaca (where they are met by a more or less transverse system of 

 elevations). The fact that these ridges pass for such long distances 

 beyond the true edge of the plateau, and retain throughout a general 

 parallelism of structure, is to me sufficient evidence that the plateau 

 is not the result of uplift along an east-and-west line of faulting, such 

 as has been assumed by Felix and Lenk, and which is made by 

 these authors to conform with the (assumed) east-and-west fissure 

 upon which the principal volcanic vents — Orizaba, Popocatepetl, 

 Nevado de Toluca, Jorullo — are supposed to stand. The plateau, 

 in this part at least, represents compressional uplift, in which an east- 

 and-west thrust has produced a series of folds running in a direction 

 more or less at right-angles to this line. The inequalities or saddles 

 of folding have been largely filled in through volcanic and fissure 

 discharges, which have thus mainly been instrumental in sha])ing 

 the existing physiognomy of the plateau. Parallel chains of hills or 

 mountains, similar to those of the region about Tehuacan, also pass 

 southward from the plateau in the State of Morelos, near Cuautla 

 and Yautepec, and between Yautepec and Cuernavaca, but these 

 will be considered later on. 



About ten miles to the southward of Tehuacan, following in the 

 direction of San Antonio and Zapotitlan, are the hills upon which 

 are situated many of the quarries of the famous Mexican onyx 

 (" Esperanza marble "). They lie at an elevation of between 6000 

 and 7000 feet, where the chain is deflected slightly to the northwest, 

 with a dip of the strata varying from west to southwest. This 

 so-called onyx occurs in light and heavy beds, sometimes several 

 feet in thickness, and is manifestly an infiltration product of a stal- 

 agmitic nature. It is, in fact, a floor or crust stalagmite, inter- 

 bedded with the distinctive Cretaceous limestones. I found numer- 

 ous fossils of the Hippuritic period in beds both underlying and 

 overlying the onyx, so that there can be no question as to the posi- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



tion of that rock ; but when it was formed — how soon or how long 

 after the close of the Cretaceous epoch — there seems to be no data 

 for determining. And for aught we know to the contrary, the onyx 

 may be forming to-day.^ 



Westward of the region that has just been described the limestone 

 ridges are continued through much of the State of Puebla, both on 

 and off the plateau ; while many of the more characteristic fossils 

 that occur elsewhere have not yet been recognized in these deposits, 

 their position and association leave no doubt that they are a belong- 

 ing, in part at least, of the same general Cretaceous formation which 

 occupies so much of the Republic.- Some of the most extensive 

 deposits of Mexican onyx, here known as " Puebla " marble, are 

 worked in the region about (southwest of) Tecali, a few leagues to 

 the south of the city of Puebla.^ 



In the State of Morelos, most marked in the region of Cuautla 

 and Yautepee, limestone ranges similar to those of Tehuacan trend 

 southward from the plateau scarp ; more properly, perhaps, they 

 might be described as abutting against the southeastern face of the 

 plateau, whose giant volcanic masses are reared up in imposing 

 grandeur in bastion-like towers and mural serrations, thousands of 

 feet in elevation. The eniergence of the limestone from the abrupt 

 wall of the plateau is here clearly marked. Between Cuautla 

 and Yautepee the parallel ridges of limestone are but feebly devel- 



1 Many workers of tlie onyx believe the rock to be a united breccia, or a 

 compound of large angular fragments which cross one another in all directions. 

 This misconception arises from the peculiar interblending of the laminal lines in 

 geodic sections, appearing as though distinct blocks of rock had been brought in 

 opposition. The broken appearance is in reality only the result of involution, by 

 which different sections of the same series of laminae are brought into a variety ot 

 antagonistic positions. 



2 Barcena describes Ammonites Ja»ics-Da7iae from Acaxochitlan, Ferreria 

 de la Trinidad, and Abra de Huilacapixtla (Anales del Mu^eo Nacional, I, p. 286 

 1877). The author justly calls attention, as had already been done by Mr. Meek, 

 to the Jurassic aspect of this Ammonite [Arietes ?), wiiich much recalls the type 

 of A. Bucklandi. Whether the presence of this form alone can be considered suf- 

 ficient evidence for recognizing in the region of its occurrence a Jurassic formation 

 I am not prepared to say. It may be a Jurassic type which has lingered well on 

 into the Cretaceous period; or, the discovery of additional fossils may clearly 

 establish the existence of true Jurassic deposits. There is nothing in the strati- 

 graphy of the rocks of the region which, as far as I can see, is opposed to the pos- 



■'• Barcena — Las Rocas de Tecali — La Naturaleza, III, 1876, pp. 7-9 ; Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1876, p. 166. 



31 




466 l'KOCEEDIN<i.S OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



oped, rising from 150 to 200 or 300 feet above the general level of 

 the country ; yet, if their elevation above the level of the sea is con- 

 sidered, they are mountains of noble proportions, rising to nearly 

 5,000 feet West of Yautejjec, however, they gradually increase in 

 height, and in what is locally known as the Sierra Blanca — the long 

 divide which separates the region of Yautepec from that of Cuer- 

 navaca — they attain an absolute elevation of probably not less than 

 6,500 or 7,000 feet, thus reaching to within a short distance of the 

 actual level of the plateau. Mr. Baker and I traversed the eastern 

 slope of the divide to an elevation a little exceeding 6,000 feet. 

 The general features of the region, both in their geological and bot- 

 anical aspects, are very similar to those of the mountains of Tehua- 

 can and Zapotitlan. Heavy beds of white or gray limestone crop 

 out on the hillsides and give to them that distinctive light color 

 which so eminently serves to distinguish the sedimentary deposits 

 from the dark, in some places almost black, volcanic masses ("Sierra 

 Negra") with which they are associated. We found the dip of the 

 beds to be uniformly east or southeast, wnth a declination ranging to 

 nearlv 40 degrees. A short distance to the westward of Yautepec, 

 a volcanic cone, whose lava-stream reaches the town, rises through 

 the limestone ridge, but I could not detect that the dip of the beds 

 was materially affected by its presence ; both east and west of it the 

 beds dipped eastward, and at almost identical angles. A slight 



sibility or piohabiliiy of Jurassic masses being here and there protruded through 

 the Cretaceous limestones, and indeed, such protrusions and intercalations may be 

 much more numerous than the general similarity of the rock-masses would lead 

 one to suppose. Nikitin has also quite recently described (Einiges iiber den Jura 

 in Mexico und Centralasien— Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, 1890, p. 1273) 

 what are assumed to be Jurassic fossils [Aticella, closely related to A. Pallasi, 

 etc.) from the region about San Luis Potosi, and he identifies the formation con- 

 taining the fossils as the equivalent of the Russian " Aucella beds." It is, how- 

 ever, not at all unlikely that a number of Jurassic forms have actually survived in 

 the Mexican region into the Cretaceous period, and possibly the Aucella (which in 

 Europe survives into the Tithonian etage=passage beds between the Jurassic and 

 the Cretaceous and into the Lower Cretaceous itself) is one of these. Barcena 

 assumed that the Nerincea which he referred to N. hieroglyphica was a Jurassic 

 form, and he also cites the occurrence of Ostrea {^Gryphea) virgula in the lime- 

 stone of Apasco (Datos pare el Estudio de las Rocas Mesozoicas, p. 18) ; but this 

 limestone, as has already been seen, is a part of the true Hippuritic series, and a 

 member, consequently, ol the Cretaceous system. I have also found the same 

 species of oyster, whether true Ostrea virgula or not, in tiie Escamela rock of Ori- 

 zaba, where it is very clearly associated with the large NerincBa, N. Castilli, and 

 with various Hippuritida; its position there is thus firmly fixed. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADErj'HIA. 4G7 



variation in tlie direction was possibly due to intnision-\var])ing. 

 For some distance around the volcano, however, the limestone beds 

 were shattered into cubical blocks; how far this condition may 

 have been induced through volcanic pressure, I cannot say, but it 

 seems probable that the breakage is not a simple form of jointing. 

 Some of the loose blocks of limestone show distinct traces of scorch- 

 ing and semi-fusion, and are manifestly products of eruption ; they 

 are in part crystalline, breaking along well-defined cleavage planes. 



We found numerous fossils both in the ejected boulders and, m 

 situ, in the stratified layers; unfortunately, their condition of pre- 

 servation was such as not to permit of specific recognition in most 

 cases, but there was no difficulty in determining the outlines of 

 various Hippuritidse, and of seemingly the same forms which we had 

 already observed in the limestones and marbles of Orizaba. The 

 same fossiliferous limestone outcrops at various placfcs in the town 

 of Yautepec and forms the Cerro de Calvariajust outside (east) of 

 it. Beautiful exposures are seen along the small stream which, in 

 the center of the town, forms the parting between the limestones and 

 the lava stream which enters from the west ; a strong easterly dip is 

 here well shown. There is no doubt in my mind that the limestones 

 of this region, with a pronounced easterly dip, are part of the same 

 series which, further to the east, in the region about Tehuacan, dip 

 in the opposite direction. They represent one section of a chain of 

 folds which passes continuously from the eastern face of the plateau 

 far into its interior, or even completely through it, likewise travers- 

 ing it from north to south. How many inversions or compressions 

 are involved in this gigantic mountain uplift, research has not yet 

 made clear. 



From the summit of the Calvaria hill the eye can readily trace 

 the backbones of the various ridges as they trend southward, until 

 they are lost from view. At their further end these ridges probably 

 inosculate with the series of heights whose trend is directed more or 

 less nearly at right angles to them, and whose age belongs to a much 

 more ancient period of geological time. 



Paleontology. 



With few exceptions, all the fossils that have heretofore been de- 

 scribed from the Cretaceous deposits of Mexico are enumerated in 

 the preceding pages. I append herewith a list of a few of the species, 

 "with their recognized distribution, which will serve more clearly to 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



indicate the identity of the formation which covers, or at one time 

 covered, the greater part of the Republic : 



Hippurites Mexicana. — States of Mexico, Queretaro, Hidalgo, San Luis Potosi, 



Coahuila, Vera Cruz, Puebla, Guerero, Morelos. 

 Hippurites calamitiformis. — Mexico, Queretaro, Vera Cruz, Puebla, Morelos, 



Michoacan, 

 Radiolites Mendozae. — Queretaro, San Luis Potosi, Vera Cruz, Guerero, Michoacan. 

 Nerinaea Castilli. — Queretaro, Hidalgo, Vera Cruz, Morelos, Michoacan. 

 Nerinaea Barcenae (N. hieroglyphica, of Biircena). — Vera Cruz, Guerero, Michoacan. 

 Enallaster Mexicanus. — Chihuahua, Colima. 



I have little doubt that some of the species above enumerated are 

 found in States other than those mentioned, but the distribution as 

 given sufficiently illustrates the broad range of the species. 



Plates XII-XIV illustrate the forms which I myself found in the 

 limestones and marbles of the Cerro de Escamela, near the town of 

 Orizaba. Some of these are clearly identical with the species which 

 Barcena first described in his " Datos para el Estudio de las Rocas 

 Mesozoicas," but I have thought well to figure them, together with 

 the other unnamed and less recognizable forms, so that they might 

 more readily serve the wants of the^paleontological student. 

 Nerinaea Castilli. (PI. XII, fig. 1). 



The fragment of this species, as shown on a polished surface of 

 marble, measures three and a half inches in length ; what the total . 

 length of the shell may have been I am unable to say, but it doubt- 

 less considerably exceeded half a foot. The species, which Barcena 

 has minutely described, seems to be well defined from any of its 

 European congeners. 

 Nerinaea Barcenae. (Plate XIII, figs. 3 and 4). 



This is the form which Barcena doubtfully identifies with N, 

 hieroglyphica, supposed to represent the European Jurassic formation. 

 I have in vain searched for a recognized species of that name, nor 

 have I been able to find a species, either Jurassic or Cretaceous, 

 which agrees in its columellar features with the Mexican fossil. 

 With the strong probability that the identification with a Jurassic 

 form is erroneous, I have thought it best to rename the species, and 

 in doing so take pleasure in recalling the name of the distinguished 

 Mexican geologist, Mariano Barcena. 

 Nerinaea sp. ? (PI. XIII, fig. 6). 



The form here represented is likely to be a deeper section of the 

 last-named, or_ it may be the form which Barcena doubtfully 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



identifies as Nerincea Goodhalli. The absence of the eolumellar 

 characteristics prevents jwsitive determiuatiou. 



Murex sp. indet. (Plate XIII, fig. 2). 



The drawing is from a tracing made on a polished marble which 

 shows the contour of the species perfectly, but unfortunately fails 

 to furnish the specific characters. I obtained a perfect specimen of 

 the same species in the Escamela quarry, but it was lost before I 

 had an opportunity to fully examine it. 

 Tylostoma'? (Plate XIII, fig. 1.) 



Two section-specimens of this large gasteropod were found in the 

 rocks of the Escamela quarry, from one of which the figure was care- 

 fully traced. The unequal balancing of the whorls and the some- 

 what irregular flow of the eolumellar surface would seem to indicate 

 that the specimen had undergone some little distortion. I am not 

 sure of the generic position of the shell, but it appears to be nearest 

 to Tylostoma or to Pterodonta, and it may not unlikely be the giant 

 Tylostoma (T. princeps) which Dr. White has described from the 

 mountains of Tehuacan (La Naturaleza, Mexico, 1883, p. ^20). 

 The casts (of Pterodonta inflata f) figured by Ramirez in his geolog- 

 ical report on the Sierra Mojada mountains (Anales del Ministerio 

 de Fomento, III, 1880) not impossibly represent the same species. 



Ostrea sp. indet. (Plate XIII, fig. 8). 



This is, without doubt, the oyster which has been referred to by 

 Barcena as Ostrea (Exogyra) virgula. It is certainly of the type of 

 that species, but yet it may equally represent one of the closely re- 

 lated Cretaceous forms, and is, perhaps, not far removed from Gabb's 

 Gryphea viiccronata ( G. Pitcher L) 



Caprina? (Plate XIII, fig. 7). 

 Ichthyosarcolithes ? (Plate XII, figs. 2, 3, 4, 5). 

 Hippurites sp. indet. (Plate XIV). 



This is by far the largest Hippurite which I found in the Mexi- 

 can rocks. I strongly suspect that it is the common European H. 

 comu-vacciniim, but the condition of preservation of the specimen 

 does not permit its specific affinities to be positively determined. 

 The drawing is traced from a polished marble. 




470 . PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the Pub- 

 lication Committee : — 



REPORT OF RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The average attendance at the meetings of the Academy during 

 the year ending Nov. 30 has been thirty, a marked improvement on 

 that of preceding years. The meeting of the Sections at stated 

 intervals continues to be productive of good results, as specialists are 

 in this way enabled to attend the meetings at which matters of inter- 

 est will be presented for their consideration. Verbal communica- 

 tions have been made by Messrs. Leidy, Heilprin, Brinton, Hous- 

 ton, Horn, Meehau, Woolman, Roth rock, Pilsbry, Allen, Dall, Wil- 

 son, McCook, Koenig, Ryder, Meyer, Rand, English, Calvert, 

 Sharp, Rex, Thomas, Wingate, Baker, Goldsmith, Morris, U. C. 

 Smith, Willcox, Sudduth, Lyman, SchaefFer, Martindale, Skinner, 

 Foote, Redfield and Bancroft. 



Ninty-six pages of the Proceedings for 1889 and three hundred 

 and thirty- six of the volume for 1890 have been issued, the former 

 illustrated by two and the latter by seven plates. The distribution 

 remains the same as last year. The publications of the Conchologi- 

 cal and Entomological Sections noted in my last report have been 

 issued regularly during the year. 



Forty-two papers have been presented for publication as fol- 

 lows :— H. A. Pilsbry 6, F. C. Baker 4, Angelo Heilprin 4, A. E. 

 Brown 2, J. E. Ives 2, J. B. Ellis and B. M. Everhart 2, Witmer 

 Stone 2, V. Sterki 1, Harrison Allen 1, W. D. Hartman I, D. S. 

 Jordan 1, Louis Woolman 1, T. D. Rand 1, H. F. Osborn 1, Chas. 

 R. Keyes 1, John Ford 1, Geo. A. Rex 1, Nathan Banks 1, T. Mee- 

 han 1, B. Sharp 1, Charles Morris 1, C. AVachsmuth and F. Springer 

 1, Jos. Leidy 1, John A. Ryder 1, Edw. Bancroft 1, H. C. Chapman 

 and A. P. Brubaker 1. Forty of these have been accepted for pub- 

 lication in the Proceedings, one for the Journal and one has been 

 recommended for publication in a medical journal to be selected by 

 the author. 



Twenty-eight members and eight correspondents have been elected. 

 The deaths of fifteen members and two correspondents -were an- 

 nounced and resignations of membership by Dr. Edw. Jackson and 

 Emily G. Hunt were accepted. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale was elected Treasurer September 23rd 

 to supply the vacancy caused by the death of Mr. Wm. C. Henszey 

 which occurred September 7th. Mr. Chas. P. Perot was elected 

 September 30th to fill the vacancy in the Finance Committee caused 

 by the election of Mr. Martindale to the Treasurership. 



The first award of the Hayden Memorial Medal was made, (m the 

 recommendation of the Committee appointed to report on the sub- 

 ject, to Prof. James Hall as a well merited recognition of the value 

 of his geological work. 



A second invitation having been received from the University of 

 Pennsylvania to remove to a position on the University grounds in 

 West Philadelphia, the subject was maturely considered by the 

 Council of the Academy and on its recommendation again declined 

 by the society at a meeting held March 11th. 



Apart from the purely scientific operations of the society, the most 

 important event of the year was the beginning of work on the pro- 

 posed new building. For the details and dates of the work of 

 construction as far as it has advanced reference is made to the 

 report of the Curators. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



While the correspondence of the past year has been of the usual 

 routine character it continues to show the steady progress of the 

 Academy in its exchange relations with the scientific societies of the 

 world. Each year adds many exchanges, rendering the library 

 more useful to those w^ho consult it with the view of obtaining a 

 knowledge of what is being published abroad. The study of the 

 natural sciences seems to be increasing, so that in nearly every town, 

 of any size, in the civilized world, societies are established and soon 

 thereafter a publication of their work in serial form begins. 



During the year sixty-eight circular letters and sixty-five cards 

 of acknowledgements of the reception of our publications have been 

 received from societies and other bodies. The nearly equal numbers 

 of the two methods of acknowledgement is doubtless due to the fact 

 that the larger portion of our exchange is sent by mail and is 

 promptly acknowledged by card. ,_^ . 




472 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Letters accompanying publications number thirty-one and indi- 

 cate in great part the number received through the International 

 Exchange. 



The demand for missing parts of our publications has been less 

 during the past year than formerly, indicating the greater degree of 

 safety in mail transmission. These deficiencies we have in every 

 instance endeavored to supply. 



During the year eight correspondents have been elected and noti- 

 fications sent. Acceptances have been received from nearly all. 



Formal notifications of the death of four correspondents have been 

 received. 



With this, my fourteenth annual report, my official connection 

 with the Academy in this position ceases. In conclusion I desire to 

 return my thanks for the compliment paid me in the repeated elec- 

 tions, which have made my service so long. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that the number of additions to 

 the library of the Academy during the twelve months ending Nov. 

 30, 1890 amounts to 4179 ; composed of 424 volumes, 3651 pamphlets 

 and parts of periodicals and 104 maps, engravings, photographs, etc. 



They were received from the following sources: — 



Societies, 1663 



I. V. Williamson Fund, ... 892 



Editors, 845 



Authors, ........ 171 



Special Appropriation, . . . ] 14 



Roberts Le Boutillier, .... 79 



Wilson Fund, 42 



Geological Survey of Sweden, . 38 



Thomas Meehan 36 



Chas. P. Perot, 25 



Stephen Parrish 23 



U. S. Department of Agriculture, 23 



U. S. Department of the Interior, 23 



Geological Survey of Russia, . 17 



Geological Survey of Canada, 



Indian Museum, 



Geological Survey of Minnesota, 

 Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, 

 U. S. War Department. . . . 

 Geological Survey of New Jersey, 

 Geological Survey of Kentucky, . 

 H. B. M. Government, . . . 



Wm. W. Jefteris, 



Australian Museum, .... 

 Geological Survey of Brazil, . 



Isaac Norris, 



U. S. Fish Commission, 

 Geological Survey of Roumania, 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



473 



U. S. Department of State, . . 16 



Reuben Haines, 15 



Kevv Gardens, 13 



■Geolo<;ic;il Survey of India, . . 12 



J. H. Redfield, 11 



James N. Stone, 10 



British Museum, 9 



U. S. Treasury Deparment, . . 7 

 Geological Survey of Nev South 



Wales 6 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin, ... 6 



H. A. Pilsbry, 6 



-Geological Survey of Finland, . 5 

 Ministry of Public Works in 



France, 5 



Engineer Department U. S. A., . 5 



■Chas. E. Smith, ...... 4 



€. M. Betts 4 



•Geological Survey of Portugal, . 3 



Department of Mines N. S. W., 

 W. G. Thompson, .... 

 Niagara Commission, ... 

 E. Indian Government, 

 Department of Mines, Nova Scoti 

 Ca|)t. L. de Saldanha de Gama 



Dr. Jos. Leidv, 



Geological Survey of Missouri, 

 Geological Survey of Texas, . 

 California Stale Mining Bureau 

 Norwegian Government, . 

 Jas. M. McDonald, .... 

 Minister of Agriculture, Toronto 

 Dr. Henry Skinner, .... 

 Government of Victoria, 

 Trustees of East Indian Museum 



Hon. G. E. Foster 



Rev. G. A. Latimer, ... 

 J. M. Hartman 



Thev are classified as follows : — 



Journals, 



Geology 



Botany, . . . . ■ . 

 General Natural History, 



Entomology, 



Conchology, 



Ornithology, . . . . , 

 Anatomy and Physiology, 

 Mineralogy, . . . . . 

 Encyclopedias, . . . , 

 Bibliography, . . . . 

 Voyages and Travels, . 



3272 



282 



134 



100 



61 



47 



40 



36 



2H 



1:4 



20 



17 



Ichthyology, . 

 Herpetology, 

 Anthropology, 

 Physical Science, 

 Helminthology, . 

 Mammalogy, . . 

 Chemistry, 

 Geography, . . 

 Agriculture, . . 

 Medicine, 

 Languages, 

 Miscellaneous, . 



15 



14 



10 



10 



8 



7 



3 



3 



2 



1 



1 



46 



The most important additions as heretofore have been obtained 

 from corresponding societies and by means of the I. V. Williamson 

 Library Fund. 



The subject catalogues of the departments of the library in most 

 general use, have been completed and the cards arranged alphabeti- 

 cally in the drawers provided for them. The books and pamphlets 

 on Physical Science, Chemistry, Geography, Agriculture and Med- 

 icine only remain to be catalogued and the entire work, it is hoped, 

 will be finished early in the spring. 



Two hundred and two volumes have been bound since last report. 



For the satisfactory progress on the subj'ect catalogue which I am 

 able to report, I am indebted to the efficient assistance of Mr. E. 

 Fronani while to Mr. Wm. J. Fox acknowledgment is due for sat- 

 isfactory aid in the current work of the year. 




474 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



The Academy is indebted to Mr. S. Kayraond Roberts for a fine 

 crayon portrait, properly framed, of the late Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 whose long continued services to the society richly merit such a mem- 

 orial. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement of the Curator-in- 

 Charge as their report for the year 1890 : — 



The Curator-in-Charge respectfully reports that the collections of 

 the Academy, in so far as their state of preservation is concerned^ 

 are in a satisfactory condition, probably more so than at any pre- 

 vious time in the past decade. But if satisfactory in this important 

 respect, they suffer largely and increasingly through lack of room 

 for their proper display. The additions to the Museum, since the 

 occupancy by the' Academy of its present building, have been so 

 numerous and so varied that they have far outstripped the possibili- 

 ties of location, and to-day it is no longer permitted to carry out 

 that system of orderly classification and arrangement which is a 

 necessity with every large museum of natural history. The steady 

 growth of the collections is an encouraging sign of the increased 

 attention that is given to the study of the natural sciences, and it 

 cannot but be a satisfaction to all friends of the Academy, and a 

 matter of just pride to the citizens of Philadelphia, that the insti- 

 tution which was the first one founded in this country for the exclusive 

 purpose of furthering a knowledge of nature, has been able, after 

 an existence of three-quarters of a century, to still claim the first 

 place in the appreciation of students. That it will continue to hold 

 its own, is amply indicated by the numerous benefits which its 

 patrons and friends generously bestow upon it; but whether the 

 Academy will be able to adequately respond to these benefits, will 

 depend largely upon the helping hand which, it is hoped, an ap- 

 preciative public will extend to it. 



The Academy is to-day laboring to increase the capacity of its 

 domicile. The grant of $50,000 made by the Legislature of the 

 State during the session of 1889, has permitted it to definitely 

 realize a scheme of enlargement, which, when fully carried into ex- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



ecution, will supply that need from which the institution at 

 present most suffers. The contemplated new building (of which per- 

 spective view, ground-plan and section are appended to this re- 

 port), will, when completed, cover a surface area of approximately 

 23,000 square feet. The main structure will be of rectangular 

 form, with a frontage on Nineteenth Street of 150 feet, and on 

 Cherry Street of 130 feet. Four tiers of galleries, each 32 feet in 

 width, will surround an open central hall, to which unbroken illu- 

 mination will be afforded by an arched glass roof, springing at a 

 height of 80 feet above the floor. A two-story building, measuring 

 . 57 by 49 feet, and containing a lecture amphitheatre designed to 

 accommodate 000 persons, will connect the new structure with the 

 edifice now occupied by the Academy. Active work on this " con- 

 necting museum" is now in progress, and it is expected that the 

 ■ structure will be ready for occupancy in the beginning of spring. 

 AV^ith the prospect of early carrying to completion the main build- 

 ing it has been deemed advisable, even in the absence of the 

 funds needed to fully erect the structure, to begin work on it at 

 once, and the foundation course has now been laid. 



The plans, in accordance with which the new Academy building 

 is to be constructed, were reported from the Board of Trustees of 

 the Building Fund and the special Committee on Plans (appointed 

 November 5th) at a meeting of the Academy held on November 

 26th, 1889, and were definitely approved by the Academy at the 

 following meeting, December 3d. They are drawn by Mr. John 

 H. Windrim, architect, and contemplate an expenditure in construc- 

 tion of S239,000. The needs of the Academy make it highly im- 

 portant that this amount be secured, and it is sincerely hoped that 

 the desired funds may be provided at as early a day as possible. 

 Delay in the completion of the building must prove seriously hurt- 

 ful to the institution and to the interests to which it ministers. 



The new. edifice will constitute one of the architectural features 

 of Philadelphia ; and it is not too much to say that it will sur- 

 pass any other museum building in the country. In evidence of 

 this, attention is called to the engraving (elevation on Nineteenth 

 Street), in which the comparative dimensions of the present and 

 proposed structures are clearly shown. 



The routine work in the museum during the past year has been 

 much as in previous years. As heretofore, the Academy has pro- 

 fited largely through the w'ork of volunteer specialists, and is thus 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



placed under special obligation to those who have generously con- 

 trib;ited their time and assistance. To Mr. John H. Redfield, the 

 Conservator of the Herbarium, and to Mr. Thomas Meehan, the 

 Academy is indebted for the greater part of the systematic work 

 that is being done toward the expansion and proper distribution 

 of the botanical collections ; similarly, to the officers of the En- 

 tomological Section and the American Entomological Society, it 

 is placed under obligation for work done in connection with the 

 department of Entomology. 



In the early part of the year the Curator-in-Charge was desig- 

 nated as the head of a scientific expedition to Yucatan and Mexico, 

 having for its special purpose the exploration — geological, zoological, 

 and botanical — of much of the still unexplored sections of the 

 Mexican Republic. The party as organized consisted of, besides the 

 Curator-in-Charge, Messrs. J. E. Ives, Witmer Stone, Roberts Le 

 Boutillier, and Frank C. Baker. The greater part of four months 

 was passed in exploration, and a rich harvest of facts and material 

 was secured for the Academy. A special report covering the 

 general results of the expedition is herewith appended. Attention 

 has already been called in previous reports to the value of this 

 form of scientific research, and too much emphasis cannot be laid 

 upon the advisability of endowing a moderate zoogeographical re- 

 search fund, the interest from which should be annually applied to 

 exploration of the numerous regions which still await investigation. 

 In no better way, it is believed, could the good of science be 

 subserved, and the general interests of the Academy promoted. 



As in previous years, the entire collection of alcoholics has been 

 carefully examined and overhauled, and it is a satisfaction to be 

 able to state that but few removals were found to be necessary. The 

 same satisfactory condition characterizes the collection of birds, 

 which has received much attention from Mr. Witmer Stone, Jessup 

 Fund beneficiary. The Conchological department continues to 

 receive the energetic services of Mr. H. A. Pilsbry, its Con- 

 servator, and it is encouraging to know that, despite the compara- 

 tively small expenditure of money which its maintenance involves, 

 it still retains its position as the first collection of tbe kind in 

 the world. The number of trays of mounted specimens in this de- 

 partment is now upwards of 61,000. Through the hearty co- 

 operation of the American Conchologists' Association, and the special 

 endeavors of the President of that Association, Mr. John H. Camp- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF philadp:lphia. 477 



bell, much new material, intended to illustrate the complete mala- 

 cological fauna, fossil as well as recent, of the United States, has 

 been received, and the hope is held out that before very long this 

 important series may be fully established. 



The department of the Academy which is to-day perhaps most 

 deficient is that of Mammalogy. This department has been in a 

 practically stationary condition for a number of years past; but 

 latterly the generosity of the Zoological Society of Philadelphia, 

 acting under the authority of its able Director, Mr. Arthur Erwin 

 Brown, h^s permitted a number of important lacunae to be filled by 

 the contributionof much important material that could be furnished 

 only by an institution of its kind. Through its assistance the 

 Academy has added very largely to the collections of osteology 

 and comparative anatomy, which are now in a fair Avay to become 

 leading features of the museum. 



Among the donations which it has been the pleasure of the 

 Academy to receive during the past year, is the highly valuable 

 collection of fresh-water sponges made by one of its members, Mr, 

 Edward Potts — without doubt the most comprehensive collection of 

 the kind in the world. It comprises specimens of all the species 

 that have heretofore been discovered or described, and is doubly 

 valuable as being presented by the principal exjwunder in this field 

 of zoological inquiry. 



The type microscopic slides (several hundred in number), prepared 

 by jNIr. Potts in the course of his investigations, are a part of this 

 donation. 



In departments of the Academy not previously specified, the work 

 done has been mainly of a general character. It is a pleasure, in 

 this connection, for the Curator-in-Charge to express his obligations 

 to his able assistant, Mr. J. E. Ives, who continues to render valu- 

 able service in the general care and management of the museum. 



Specimens for study have been loaned during the year to Prof 

 W. B. Scott, of Princeton ; to Dr. G. Baur, of the Clark University, 

 Worcester, and to Mr. Daniel Giraud Elliot, of New York. 



With the view of bringing the Academy into closer contact with 

 its friends and patrons, and to more freely illustrate the nature of 

 its work, it has been thought desirable by many to inaugurate a 

 series of evening gatherings or receptions, at which the representa- 

 tives of different professions and walks of life might meet in social 

 converse. Two such receptions, under the direction of a specially- 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



appointed Reception Committee, were held in the early part of the 

 year, and one in December, and their success fully testifies to the 

 wisdom of the course suggested, and justifies the continuance of the 

 same in the coming year. No expense is entailed upon the Academy 

 as a body, the subscriptions to the Reception Fund being borne 

 individually by such members of the institution as wish to partici- • 

 pate in the meetings. 



Respectfully submitted, 

 Joseph Leidy, Angelo Heilprin, 



C/i'n Curators. Ctirator-in- Charge. 



report on the operations of the expedition to YUCATAN 

 AND MEXICO. 



The Chief of the expedition, organized under the auspices of the 

 Academy, for the exploration of Yucatan and Mexico, presents the 

 following brief rmtme of the operations which were conducted under 

 his charge. The expedition, consisting of the undersigned, and of 

 Messrs. J. E. Ives, Roberts Le Boutillier, Witmer Stone and Frank 

 C. Baker, sailed from New York on February loth, arriving at 

 Progreso, Yucatan, on the 22d of the same month. A full month 

 was spent in the exploration of the northern portion of the penin- 

 sula, the operations of the party extending to Calcehtok, on the 

 southwest, to Labna, on the south, to Tunkas, on the east, and to 

 the Port of Silam, on the north. The wonderful caves (Calcehtok, 

 Loltun) and ruins (Uxmal, Labna) of the first range of mountains 

 were incidentally visited, and collections of various kinds made 

 at almost all points touched by the expedition ; some little 

 dredging was also done off the coast at Progreso. Headquarters 

 were established for ten days in the railroad camp of Col. John W. 

 Glenn, constructing engineer of the railroad connecting Tekanto 

 with Izamal, where the most liberal hospitality was extended to the 

 members of the party, and facilities furnished for the prosecution 

 of their work. To the generosity and courtesy of Colonel and Mrs. 

 Glenn the expedition is largely indebted for the success of its Yuca- 

 tan explorations. 



On the 23rd of March the expedition sailed from Progreso to 

 Vera Cruz, the remainder of the explorations, extending into June, 

 being conducted in major Mexico. 



The route of travel embraced the principal sites of (recent) 

 volcanic activity in the Republic, and thus permitted of a close ex- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OK rHILADELPIIIA. 479 



aniiiiatioii of the ])hysiographical and biological features of some of 

 tiie most gigantic volcanic summits on the surface of the earth. 

 The four highest mountains of the Republic were asce;ided by two 

 or more members of the party within the limited period of three 

 weeks, and thus a good opportunity was afforded for testing relative 

 (altitude) values by means of the barometer. The order of the 

 ascents was as follows : The peak of Orizaba, 6th and 7th of April ; 

 Popocatepetl, 16th and 17th of the same month; Nevado de Tolu- 

 ca, on the 21st, and Ixtaccihuatl, on the 26th and 27th. The de- 

 terminations of altitude have been recorded in a paper published 

 in the October issue of the Proceedings of the Academy. 



Some little exploration was made of the lake and valley region 

 of the capital city ; but the most important work was accomplished 

 along the eastern and southern face of the central plateau, or in the 

 great contour comprised between Jalapa and the volcano of Jorul- 

 lo, on the Pacific slope. The edge of the plateau was crossed and 

 recrossed at several points, and it was thus possible to fix definitely 

 the structural relations of one of the most remarkable orographic 

 features on the American continent. The quarries of the famous 

 Mexican onyx, lying in the mountain fastnesses southwest of Te- 

 huacan, were visited, and the geological relations of the peculiar 

 marble ascertained. The ten days immediately j^receding the de- 

 parture from Mexico were devoted to a zoological reconnoissance of 

 the ocean-front about Vera Cruz, and to the exploration of the 

 outlying coral reefs. 



It is not yet possible to recite fully the scientific results of the 

 Academy's expedition, inasmuch as a considerable part of the material 

 and data obtained by it still awaits study and examination. But it 

 is certain that they have fully met the expectations of the principal 

 promoters of the enterprise, even if it cannot be said that the 

 success was equal in all the special departments which the expedi- 

 tion attempted to cover. Among the more important results ob- 

 tained may now be mentioned : 



1. The determination of the geological features of Yucatan. 



2. The discovery (at least to science) of the existence of extensive 

 coral reefs in the western waters of the Gulf of Mexico. 



3. The determination of the culminating point of the Mexican 

 Republic, which is also the culminating point of the North Ameri- 

 can Continent. 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890 



4. The determination of the principal geological features of the 

 Republic. 



Much of the zoological and botanical material obtained by the 

 expedition is new either to science or to the Academy's collection^ 

 and thus makes most valuable additions to the museum. The elabo- 

 ration of this material has been confided to special investigators,, 

 whose reports (some of them already either printed or in prepara- 

 tion) will appear in the Proceedings of the Academy, and in a final 

 publication dealing with the explorations generally. 



The following papers have already been issued by the Academy : 



" Birds collected in Yucatan and Southern Mexico." By Wit- 

 mer Stone. 



" Barometric Observations among the High Volcanoes of Mexico, 

 with a Consideration of the Culminating Point of the North Ameri- 

 can Continent." By Angelo Heilprin. 



" The Corals and Coral Reefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf 

 of Mexico." By Angelo Heilprin. 



" Echinoderms from the Northern Coast of Yucatan and the 

 Harbor of Vera Cruz." By J. E. Ives. 



" The Geology and Paleontology of the Cretaceous Deposits of 

 Mexico." By Angelo Heilprin. 



" Notes on a Collection of Shells from Southern Mexico." By 

 Frank C. Baker. 



Other papers now in course of preparation will appear during the 

 early part of the year. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



During the year 1890 this Section has held fifteen meetings. 



Dr. Samuel G. Dixon has been elected a member. 



Several papers of interest have been read at the joint sessions with 

 the Academy, and interesting verbal communications have been 

 made by Messrs. Sharp, Ryder, Rex, Wingate, Sudduth and others. 



The oflicers elected to serve for the ensuing year are as follows : — 



Director, ■ . . . . . . Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 



Vice-Director, ..... John C. Wilson. 



Recorder, Harold Wingate. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIIILADELPIIIA. 481 



Treasurer, Charles P. Perot. 



Conservator, ..... Dr. George A. Rex. 



Corresponding Secretary, . . . Dr. Charles SchJiffer. 

 Very respectfully submitted, 



Harold Wingate, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Since the last annual meeting of the Section ;?pecimens have 

 been received from forty-three sources, to the number of 1698 trays, 

 a detailed list of which will be found in the record of additions to 

 the museum. 



The most important collection received is that made by the ex- 

 pedition from the Academy to Yucatan and Mexico, under the 

 charge ot Professor Angelo Heilprin. Marine shells were collected 

 at Progreso, Si lam, Campeche, and Vera Cruz — some 325 trays in 

 all. Land shells were collected in Yucatan and Mexico at many 

 localities, to the number of 406 trays, including many species not 

 before in the collection, and a few probably new. A catalogue of 

 the marine forms has been prepared by Mr. Frank C. Baker, my 

 former assistant, for publication in the Proceedings of the Academy. 

 It will be found of great value to students of the West Indian 

 fauna, as many species are for the first time recorded from the 

 mainland. The condition of many of the specimens is not very good, 

 but this does not materially lessen their value to the zoogeographer. 

 The land and fresh-water forms are being studied by the Conserva- 

 tor of the Section, and a catalogue of them will be offered for publi- 

 cation later. 



A collection of 203 trays of land and fresh-water shells from 

 California, Idaho and Washington, purchased by the Conchological 

 Section from Henry Hemphill, increases our suites of western 

 species, and adds to the museum many new species and varieties, a 

 part of which have been described by the writer and others. 



A collection of shells, including many alcoholic specimens made 

 by Dr. Benjamin Sharp in the Caribbean Islands, adds 94 trays to 

 our suites of West Indian marine shells, and 25 trays of land species. 

 Dr. Sharp has also presented 30 bottles of excellently hardened 

 and preserved alcoholic material collected by him at Naples and 

 Villa Franca. 

 32 




482 PKocKKi)iN(;.s ok tiik academy of [1890. 



The Section has acquired hy purchase a fine collection of 

 the remarkable fresh-water shells of the African Lake Tanganika. 

 Eighteen species, belonging to thirteen genera, are represented, the 

 number of specimens being over 100. 



The Conservator has also olitained, in exchange from Mr. Robert 

 Jelschin, of Patschkan, Silesia, 100 species of rare land and fresh- 

 water shells, nearly all the species being new to the museum. 



Our extensive suites of American shells have been added to by 

 the donations of Messrs. F. A. Sam})son, O. A. Crandall, John 

 Ford, J. A. Singley, G. H. Ragsdale, E. W. Roper, W. S. Strode, 

 the Conservator, and many others as set forth in the list of acces- 

 sions appended. 



A special collection of the shells of the United States has been 

 commenced under the auspices of the American Association of Con- 

 chologists. It is the intention of the officers, with the cooperation 

 of the large membership of the association, to make this collection 

 a complete exposition of the molluscan life of America. None but the 

 finest specimens of each species or variety are accepted. John H. 

 Campbell, Esq., of Philadelphia, the President of the Association, 

 and the originator of the enterprise, has already received a large 

 number of specimens, 153 trays of which have been placed in the 

 cases, and form an excellent beginning of what promises to be a 

 most valuable addition to the museum. These specimens are pi-e- 

 sented with no conditions save that they shall form a United States 

 collection separate from the general collection and that they be 

 received from members of the American Association of Concholo- 

 gists only. The plan is heartily approved by the Curator-in-Charge 

 of the Academy, as a step toward the formation of special collections 

 illustrating characteristic faume of the globe. 



The museum work has progressed rapidly, and is now as close 

 to the literary part of the work as it can be kept. During the 

 year the entire collection of Helices has been rearranged in harmony 

 with the Manual of Conchology, up to the end of the last comj)leted 

 volume, filling five double table cases and sixty-two drawers, rep- 

 resenting the groups of Helicoid shells included in volumes III, 

 IV and V of the Manual. This work has been rendered possible by 

 the addition to our sj)ace of two double table cases containing six- 

 teen drawers. 



In the current volumes of the Manual of Conchology, the Con- 

 servator has monographed the families Stomatellldce, Scissurellidce, 




I'SOU.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELI'HIA. 483 



Scutelllnidw, Haliotidce and Fissurellidce, and the Helices of Mada- 

 gascar, Japan and Australia. He has identified and relabeled the 

 specimens of each group in the collection as they were studied. The 

 first series of the Manual now a})proaches an end; the true Limpets 

 and the Chitons only remaining unfinished. The second series has 

 progressed as far as the completion of the true Helices. The Philip-' 

 pine Island group Cochlostyla will be considered in the volume for 

 1891, the illustrations for which are already well advanced. The 

 Conservator has been assisted during a number of months of the 

 year by Mr. F. C. Baker, a gentleman whose willingness and effi- 

 ciency deserve high commendation. 



At the annual meeting, held December 4th, the following officers 

 were elected to serve during the ensuing year : — 



Director, ..... W. S. W. Ruschenherger. 



Vice-Director, . . . . John Ford. 



Recorder, ..... Edward J. Nolan. 



Secretary, J. H. Redfield. 



Treasurer, , . . . . S. R. Roberts. 



Librarian, ..... Edw. J. Nolan. 



Conservator, .... Henry A. Pilsbry. 



H. A. Pilsbry, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



Since the last report the Section has prospered in many ways. 

 There has been an increase in the interest taken in entomology by 

 its members, and the meetings have been well attended. A number 

 of interesting verbal communications on entomology have been 

 made at the several meetings, and several valuable papers have 

 been published by the Society and Section. Two members and two 

 associates have been elected during the year. The various collec- 

 tions are in fairly good order. The arrangement of the exotic lepi- 

 doptera has been completed ; it was made up of the collections of 

 the American Entomological Society, the Academy, and that given 

 by the heirs of Mr. T. R. Peale. Over one thousand specimens 

 have been added to the North American collection, a very small 

 proportion of these having been purchased. 



There have been over seven hundred additions to the library. 

 The journal entitled "Entomological News," which is published by 




484 



PKOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



the Section, with the financial aid of the American Entomological 

 Society, has been successful beyond our expectations. The first 

 volume, now completed, consists of one hundred and sixty-eight 

 pages of interesting matter contributed by many of the leading 

 Entomologists of the country. It will be continued and increased 

 to twenty or more pages per number, and be illustrated whenever 

 possible. The proceedings of the Section for each month have 

 been published in the " News." 



At the public receptions given by the Academy, the Section has 

 made displays of insects which have elicited favorable comment, 

 and will no doubt help to popularize this branch of natural history. 

 As the " Entomological News" identifies insects for subscribers, it 

 becomes necessary to have the collections in good condition and 

 species well represented, so that this may be properly done. AH 

 insects received for determination through the committee having 

 charge of the publication of the "Entomological News" become 

 the property of the Society. At the last meeting of the year the 

 follow'inor officers were elected : — 



Director, 

 Vice- Director, 

 Treasurer, 

 Recorder, 



Publication Committee, . 



Corresponding Secretary, 

 Conservator, . 



George H. Horn, M.D. 



Rev. H. C. McCook, D.D. 



E. T. Cresson. 



Henry Skinner, M.D. 

 ") Philip Laurent, 

 j Plenry Skinner, M.D. 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Henry Skinner, M.D. 



Henry Skinner, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-Director of the Botanical Section has the honor to re- 

 port the continued prosperity of the Section. It has no debts, and 

 has a balance in its treasury. The stated meetings have been held 

 regularly, and communications of interest to botanists received at 

 each meeting, some of which have subsequently appeared in the 

 Proceedings of the Academy. 



The officers elected for the coming year are as follows : — 



Director, . . . . W. S, W. Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Vice-Director, . . . Thomas Meehan. 



Treas. and Carres' g Sec'y, . Isaac C. Martiudale. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 485 



Recorder, .... Charles Schaffer, M.D. 



Conservator, . . . John H. Redfield. 



The report of the Conservator, which is submitted as part of this 

 report, shows a gratifying increase in the Herbarium — the number 

 of determined species of flowering plants and ferns now exceeding 



30,000. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator's Report for 1890. — The Conservator respectfully 

 submits the following Annual Report upon the condition and pro- 

 gress of the Academy's Herbarium : — 



During the past year large and valuable additions have been 

 made to our collections, I'eminding us that the time has already 

 arrived when we need larger apartments to provide suitable space 

 for such accessions. The chief contributions have been of plants of 

 the tropical regions of America, of which we are now enabled to 

 display a creditable representation, constituting a nucleus for such 

 future accretions as Avill in time render our Herbarium indispen- 

 sable to the student of the floras of Mexico and South America. 



Prof. Rovirosa has continued his researches in the rich flora of 

 the province of Tabasco, and has added three hundred species to his 

 former gifts, a large number of them of great interest, and till now 

 unrepresented in the collection. Mr. C. G. Pringle, noted for his long 

 experience in collecting, and for the judgment and care manifested in 

 the selection and pre])aration of his specimens, spent the season of 

 1889 in the Mexican Province of Jalisco, and we have the result in 

 a series of 335 species, a large proportion of which are new to us. 

 Mr. T. S. Brandegee, of the California Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, has sent us a collection made by him in 1889, in the 

 peninsula of Lower California, a region hitherto so little known 

 that more than half the species were new to us. The scientific ex- 

 pedition sent out by the Academy in the early part of the year, 

 under the guidance of Prof. Heilprin, though mainly devoted to 

 other branches, did not neglect the flora of the regions which it 

 traversed ; and by the aid of Messrs. Stone and Baker, it has con- 

 tributed 325 species, mostly from Yucatan, and from the region 

 about Orizaba and Mexico, a fair proportion of which are novelties. 

 From South America we have received a collection made in Bolivia 

 by Miguel Bang, admirably supplementing those previously niade 

 by Dr. H. H. Rusby, in the same region. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Besides these American plants, we may specify a valuable collec- 

 tion of 700 species recently made by Prof. J. Bornmiiller, in the 

 province of Amasia, in the northern portion of Asia Minor. For 

 this contribution, of which more than half the species are new to 

 our shelves, we are indebted to the kindness of Mr. W. G. Warden, 

 of Germantown. 



Other lesser contributions will appear in the usual detailed list of 

 plants recorded in the additions to the museum. 



The total number of species received during the year has been 

 3,289, of which 2,811 were Phanerogams and vascular Cryptogams. 

 Of these latter 1,161 are believed to be new to our collection, and 

 among them are representatives of 49 new genera ; 241 are from 

 our own territory; 1,759 are from tropical America; 777 are from 

 the northern portions of the eastern hemisphere, and 34 are from its 

 more southern portions. The remaining 478 species received are of 

 the lower Cryptogams, and include some valuable collections of 

 mosses. The additions of the past year raise the estimated number 

 of species of Phanerogams and vascular Cryptogams in the 

 Academy's Herbarium to 30,053. 



The Vice-Director of the Section has contributed a large share of 

 his valuable time to the study and determination of the plants re- 

 ceived from Prof. Rovirosa, and from the Heilprin expedition. In 

 this work he has been aided to some extent by Mr. Burk and by 

 the Conservator, who have therefore not been able to accomplish as 

 much as heretofore in the work of mounting the collection, yet 

 all the North American accessions have received this attention, and 

 all others have been placed in covers and carefully distributed. 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGI- 

 CAL SECTION. 



Fewer meetings than usual have been held this year, most of 

 them under the new arrangement with the meetings of the Academy, 

 on the first Tuesday of each alternate month. Long-continued 

 absence of the more active members, has also operated this year, 

 as it did last, to the detriment of the meetings, but they have not 

 been, without interest. ' 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 487 



A number of specimens Ijsive been purchased by the Section, and 

 added to the collection of the Academy. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Livertebrate Paleontology respectfully reports 

 that owing to protracted absence in Mexico and Yucatan, acting as 

 director of the scientific expedition organized under the auspices of 

 the Academy, he was unable to participate in the regular spring 

 course of instruction. He hopes, however, to make good the de- 

 ficiency by extending the course of lectures contemplated for the 

 coming season. 



The collections of the Academy in the department of Paleontol- 

 ogy continue to receive steady accessions of material, so that it is 

 able to maintain itself as one of the leading departments of the in- 

 stitution. Aniong the more important accessions of the year is a 

 large collection of Eocene fossils from the State of Texas, kindly 

 presented by the State Geologist, Mr. E. T. Dumble. The collections 

 obtained in Mexico and Yucatan by the Academy's expedition, 

 which still largely await critical examination, ai'e a contribution 

 alike new to science and to the Academy's museum. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Angelo Heilprin. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHAEOLOGY. 



In the early months of 1890 I delivered a series of ten lectures 

 on the " General Science of Ethnography," including its main prin- 

 ciples and their application to the study of man throughout the 

 world. 



These lectures were well attended, from 150 to 175 being the aver- 

 age number of persons present. They appeared to excite an interest 

 in the subject, and at the request of several of the auditors the lec- 

 tures have since been written out and published under the title, 

 " Races and Peoples ; Lectures on the Science of Ethnography." 

 It is believed that the attention thus directed to this important 




48.S i*K()ci:i:i>iN(ji.s of the academy of [1890. 



science will have good results both generally and for this institution. 

 A similar series, limiting the field to modern Europe, is in prepa- 

 ration for the present winter. 



The collections in the departments of Archseology and Ethnology 

 are substantially in the same condition as at the date of my last 

 annual report. Want of exhibition space has prevented any material 

 increase in the number of sjiecimens, and even the present collections 

 are barely accessible to students. The construction of a new l)uild- 

 ing for the use of the Academy gives hope that before long a more 

 satisfactory display of these collections will be possible. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



D. G. Brinton. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports that 

 ninety trays of marine, fresh-water and land shells, collected by 

 him during the winter of 1888-89, on the Caribbean Islands, 

 have been presented. 



During the past year he delivered seven lectures on the " Carib- 

 bean Islands," five of which were illustrated with lantern slides. 



It is proposed to give a course of lectures on the "Principles of 

 Zoological Philosophy" during the spring of the coming year. 



The additions to the museum have been important. A sn^all 

 ]jart of the collection made by the expedition of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences, under the charge of Professor Angelo Heil- 

 prin, including Echinodermata and corals, have been presented. 

 The bulk of the collection is now being worked up, and will be 

 formally presented in the coming year. 



A collection of Echinoidea, Asteroidea, Ophiuroidea, Holothuroi- 

 dea, Crinoidea, Anthozoa, Hydroidea, Crustacea and Annelida, 

 principally from the dredgings of the U. S. Fish Commission 

 steamers, have been presented by the Smithsonian Institution. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Benjamin Sharp, 



Prof, of Invert. Zool. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the W. S. Vaux collections submits his report for 

 the years 1889 and 1890. 



The collections are in good condition. One hundred and forty 

 specimens were added during the two years embraced by the re- 

 port, at a cost of $379.28. Sixteen upright cases have been pre- 

 pared at an outlay of S523.22, and placed above the horizontal 

 cases for the proper systematic arrangement of the additions. 



The additions now reported increase the number of specimens 

 in the Mineralogical collection to 7,028. No additions have been 

 made to the Archeological collection, and the specimens at present 

 number 2,940, the same as reported in 1888. 

 Respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 



Curator. 




490 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



The election of Officers, Councillors and Members of the Finance 

 Committee, to serve during the year 1891, was held with the follow- 

 ing result : — 



. Joseph Leidy, M.D. 

 Thomas Meehan, 

 Rev. Henry C. McCook, D.D. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Benjamin Sharp, M.D. 

 Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Edward J. Nolan, M.D. 

 Joseph Leidy, M.D., 

 Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M.D.^ 

 Angelo Heilprin. 



President, . 

 Vice-Presidents, . 



Recording Secretary, . 

 Corresponding Secretary, 

 Treasurer, . 

 Librarian, . 

 Curators, 



Councillor to serve for an un- 

 expired term, . 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



Gavin W. Hart. 



Charles P. Perot, 

 J. H. Redfield, 

 Charles Morris, 

 Harold Wingate. 

 Charles P. Perot, 

 Charles Morris, 

 Charles E. Smith, 

 Gavin W. Hart, 

 Uselma C. Smith. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1890. 



MEMBERS. 



January 28. — Carl Edelheim, 



February 25. — William H. Bricker, M.D., Samuel G. Dixon, 

 M.D., David J. Bullock, Stephen Farrelly, Baird Halberstadt, 

 Mahlon Walker, M.D. 



March 25. — Thomas H. Dudley. 



April 29. — William K. Shryock, Abraham Barker, Walter 

 Conrad. 



May Tl. — Caleb J. Milne, David Milne, John C. Garland, An- 

 nesley R. Govett, Alfred G. Baker, Charles Piatt, John Cadwalader, 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 491 



Clement A. Griscom, Charles P. Hayes, James MacAllister, Thomas 

 Miles. 



Jane 24. — J. Duiidas Lippincott. 



October 28.— Charles S. Welles, Thomas B. Harned, Ida A. 

 Keller, Ph.D. 



November 25. — Albert P. Brubaker, M.D., Virginia Maitland. 



CORR E8PONDENTS. 



January 28. — Henry M. Stanley. 



July 29. — George Frederick Kunz, of New York. 



October 28. — Ernst Haeckel, of Jena ; Edw. L. Greene, of Berk- 

 eley, Cal. 



Noveviber 25. — Alfred Giard, of Paris ; C. Hart Merriam, M.D., 

 of Washington ; R. W. Sbufeldt, M.D., of Washington ; Florentino 

 Ameghino, of Buenos Ayres. 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 

 1890. 



Mammalia. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Mounted specimens of Synotheres prehen- 

 silis and Crossarchus obscurus ; prepared skeletons of Auckenia guanaco, 

 Oreas canna, Ceruus Canadensis, Equus zebra, Macacus arctoides and Cervus 

 Sika ; skin of Macacus arctoides. 



Birds. 



F. C. Baker. A collection of sixty-nine birds from Rhode Island and Florida. 



E. Fronani. Chrysotis ochrocfphala and Icterus icterus. 



Chas. Liebeck. Nest and eggs of chewink {Pipilo erytkropJithahnus), from Wil- 

 low Grove, Pa. 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Skin of Aramus giganteus. 



Academy Expedition to Mexico (1890.) Two hundred and thirty-three speci- 

 mens (108 species, about one-fifth new to the Academy's collection) of birds from 

 Yucatan and Mexico. 



Reptiles and Amphibians. 



Mrs. J. B. Ellis. Snake-skin from Sierra Leone, Africa. 



F. M. Beamer. Two skins (slough) o^ Eutcenia sirtalis. 



John Ford. Ophibolus doliatus, var. triangulus, from Belmont, Philadelphia. 



Louis Vossion. Skin of the Cobra di Capello, from Madras. 



Chas. Liebeck. Salamandra fasciatus, from Hammonton, N. J. ; Sceloporus un- 



dula/us, from Atlantic City, N. J. ; Bufo Americanus, Spelerpes ruber, and 



Sceloporus undulatus, from Camden, N. J. 

 Wm. J. Fox. Amblystoma opacum, from Atlantic City, N. J. 

 Arthur Erwin Brown. Stilosoma extentiata, from Lake Kerr, Florida (type) ; 



Eutania nigrolateris, from Tucson, Arizona (type.) 

 F. C. Baker. Cyclophis cestivus, Elaps fulvius, Tropidonotw:, sp ? from Oak 



Lodge, Fla. ; Eutcsnia sirtalis, from Philadelphia. 

 F. W. Walmsley. Heterodon siniiis, from Bridgeton, N. J.; Eutcenia sirtalis- 



Fishes. 



Benjamin Sharp. Collection of fishes from the Caribbees ; Cyclopterus luntpus ; 



Gobiesox, sp ? from Villafranca. 

 P. Laurent. Lutjanus Stearnsii, from Anglesea, N. J. 



Recent Invertebrata (excluding MoUusca and Insecta.) 



Miss L. Kromer. A collection of Bryozoa, and Lepidonotus squamatus, from 



Nantucket, Mass. 

 Angelo Heilprin. Two trays of Suberites compacta, Balanus, sp ? sponges, and 



worms from Nantucket, Mass. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



Wesley F. Wright. Four trays of mounteii specimens of Aglaophenia strnthioni- 



des, from the Californian coast. 

 Eugene M. Aaron. Julus sp?, from a buncli of bananas. 

 Witmer Stone. Parasitic worms from the intestine of Cooper's Hawk. 

 S. G. Di.xon. Boring of Carpenter Ant in cherry-wood. 

 Benjamin Sharp Collection of Invertebrates from the Caribbees ; Arenicola 



ecaudata and Spirographis Spa/lanzanii, from Villafranca, near Nice ; Ascidia 



intestinalis , Hermione sp?, Thysanozoon Brocchii, from Naples; Arenicola pis- 



catorum, Psainmolyce arenosa, Slernaspis sp ?, Phascolosoma, sp ? and Scorpio 



Etiropccus, from Villafranca. 

 Collection of Invertebrates from the Mediterranean. 

 Uselma C. Smith. Arenicola cristata, from Anglesea, N. J. 

 Smithsonian Institution. A collection of Echinoidea, Asteroidea, Opkiuroidea, 



Hololhuroidea, Crinoidea, Anthozoa, Hydroidea, Crustacea and Annelida, prin- 

 cipally from the dredgings of the U. S. Fish Commission. 

 Jas. T. B. Ives. Fluslra foliacea, from Hartlepool, Eng. 

 Wm. J. Fox. Turret Spider (Lycosa arenicola) fiom Atlantic City, N. J. ; nest of 



Pol isles pallipes. 

 Miss Edith Ives. Medusa and Ocypoda arenaria, from Atlantic City, N. J. A 



collection of Invertebrates from Five Mile Beach, N. J. 

 John Ford. l.epas fascicularis, from Atlantic City, N. J.; Serpuloid tubes on 



Adtica diiplicata, from Anglesea, N. J. ; Echinoneus semilunaris, from Cuba. 

 J. E. Ives. Nine species of Invertebrates from Holly Beach, N. J. A collection 



of Invertebrates from Five Mile Beach, N. J. 

 Academy of Natural Sciences Expedition lo Mexico, 1890. Thirteen species 



of Echinoderms, and a collection of Corals and Bryozoans from the northern 



coa^t of Yucatan and the harbor of Vera Cruz. 

 F. C. Baker. Scorpions from Oak Lodge, Fla. 

 H.C. McCook. Lumbricus terrestris, from Hollidaysburg, Pa. 

 D. J. Bullock. Cucumaria frondosa, from Bar Harbor, Me. 

 Isaac Norris. Stroiigyloceiitrotus Drobachiensis. 

 W. S. W. Ruschenberger. Pollicipes mitella, from Cochin-China. 

 Jo>eph Leidy. Velella mutica, from Beach Haven, N. J. 



MoLLUSCA (recent.) 



Academy Expedition to Mexico (1890). Three hundred and twenty-five trays ot 

 marine shells from Yucatan and Mexico; 406 trays of land and fresh-water shells, 

 collected by Prof. Heilprin and others; eight trays and bottles of mollusca, 

 collected at Havana, Cuba. 



Dr. Harrison Allen. Helix hortensis L., Nantucket. 



American Association of Conchologists (through Mr. Campbell, President), 153 

 trays of marine, land, and fresh-water shells of the United States and Alaska 

 (detailed list of which will be found in The Nautilus for November and 

 December, 1890. 



F. C. Baker. Murex hattstcllum var. longicauda Baker ; Lyogyrus Brownii Cpr. 

 R. I., Planaxis lineatus Bahamas; Ricitiula Pilsbryana Baker (type), Ceylon. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890. 



Strophia lineata Mayn. ; Peristernia Hassulata Lam. ; ten species of Polynesian 

 marine shells. 



John Brazier. Five species of Australian moUusks in alcohol. 



John H. Campbell. Helix trizonaloides A. D. Brown, type. Ricinula iodostoma 

 Duel. N. Zealand. 



Dr. H. Chapman. Neptunea decevicostata, Terebratulina septentrionalis, etc., 

 from Mt. Desert, Maine, contained in ten trays and bottles. 



Conchological Section (obtained by purchase.) Twenty-five trays of Philippine 

 Island land shells; Helix Gaberti from New Ireland; 18 species of Lake Tan- 

 ganyika shells; 54 trays of marine shells, new to the museum; 203 trays of 

 land and fresh-water shells from the western U. S., and (by exchange) 100 

 species of Palasarctic land and fresh-water shells, from Robert Jetschin. 



0. A. Crandall. Twelve species of fresh-water shells from Missouri and Arkansas, 

 including types of Goniobasis Crandalli Pilsbry. 



W. H. Dall. Halistylus columna Dall. 



Geo W. Dean. Helix Tiesenhauseni Gredl. Tyrol. 



F. J. Ford. Five species of land shells from Kansas. 



John Ford. Types of Helicina Dentoni Pilsbry, and Helix Deaniana Ford, from 

 New Guinea ; Gibbula obliquata. Helix candidissima large var., H. tigri var. 

 dirallistodon Bgt., Helix tigri Gervais, Solen, from N. J. ; Aslralium, Monodonta 

 (4 spp.) and 1 rcchtis : Haliotis gigantea Chemn. and four species of New Jer- 

 sey shells. 



Wm. J. Fox. Twenty-eight species of New Jersey land and fresh-water shells. 

 Peristernia Wagneri Anton. One species of Cerithium ; Helix introferens Bid. 

 from Atco, N. J. ; Bttlimus sp. ; Turbinella nniricattwi var. ; 4 species of 

 marine shells. 



1. Greegor. Triton fc morale, L., Bahamas. 



Dr. W. H. Harlman. Two species of Strephobasis ; eight species of Htlicina. 

 Prof. F. L. Harvey. Four species of Pacific Ocean shells (new to coUeciion), 



type of Engina Harveyana, Baker. 

 J. E. Ives. Nassa obsoleta, and eight other mollusks, Sea Isle City. N. J. 



C. W. Johnson. Neritina Vitginea, L., Fla. ; Cerithium atratum, Marco, Pla. ; 

 six species of Monodonta and Euchelus. 



G. W. Lichtenthaler. Ostrcsa edulis var. Adriatica, Dosinia lupinus, from Venice ; 

 Anodonta cygmia var., England. 



G. D. Lind. Three species of fresh-water shells from St. Louis, Mo. 

 Geo. T. Marston. Bythinella obtusa Lea, Green Bay, Wis. 

 Wm. J. McGinty. Astyris hinata Say, Atlantic City, N. J. 



D. R. Pilsbry. Vivipara sp.. Orange Co., Fla. 



H. A. Pilsbiy. Venus merceneria var. antiqua, Nantucket ; Liviax agrestis ; 

 Helix Pcemeri ; 4 sp. Zonites and 4 sp. Helix, Natural Bridge, Va. ; Helix 

 Hyeli Mitt., Balearic Is ; Bythinella latheine7-i, Italy ; Holospira Elizabethee, 

 section and abnormal shell with double aperture. — Helicina occulta Say, Natu- 

 ral Bridge, Va. Goniobasis Ozarhensis CaW, Mo.; G. nigrina Lea, Oregon. 

 Sixteen species fresh-water shells from New Orleans; Limncca bulimoides Lea, 

 Dakota; Gundlachia Meekiana, "Rock Island, 111.; Succinea Salleana, New 

 Orleans, La. (alcoholic) ; Liiiinx campestris, New Orleans, La.; Helix lurmas- 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



toma var. coiuolor, tyi)e of var., Ceylon; Limtuea biilimoides \.en, Ogalalla, 



Neb. 

 Henry Prime. F"orty species of Haytiaii moUusks, preserved in glycerine. 

 G. H. Ragsdale. Biilivndus Ragsdalei, from Texas (types of sp.) Helicina 



orbictilatci, Texas. Unio tttberculatus, Texas. Helix thyroides var., Texas. 

 S. R. Roberts. Three species of Unio, from Florida. 



E. W. Roper. Ten species of land and fresh-water mollusks. 



F. A. Sampson. Six species of Strepoinatida: ; Helix Kiowaensis var. Arkanscensis 

 Pils., types of var., 4 sp. land shells, Sedalia, Mo. 



J. Shallcross. Vohita Ferussaci Don., Patagonia. 



Dr. Benjamin Sliarp. Ninety-four trays of Caiibbjean shells, and thirty bottles of 



alcoholic specimens, from Naples and Villafranca. 

 J. A. Singley. Twenty species of fresh-water and land shells from Texas. 

 U. C. Smith. Three species of marine shells, Anglesea and Atlantic City, N. J. 



Littorina irrorata, Atlantic City, N. J. ; Scalaria turrictda Sowb., Anglesea, 



N.J. 



Frederick Stearns. Helix, six s|)ecies, Japan and China. 



R. E. C. Stearns. Four species of Bulimus, Buenos Ayie-;. 



W. S. Strode. Suite of twelve Anodonta suborbiculata ; A. grandis, from Illi- 

 nois. 



M. B. Taylor. Collection of seventy-five trays of East Indian shells, collected by 

 the late Marmaduke Burrows. 



A. W. Vogdes. Defitaliuni sp., Florida. 



Jos. Willcox. Six species of mollusks from Florida. 



B. H. Wright. Bulimulus from Florida. Goniobasis Etaiitahensis Lea, Florida. 

 S. Hart Wright. Planorbis scalaris Jay, in alcohol. 



Fossil Vertp:brata. 



Joseph Willcox. Hyposteinal bone of Etiiys, from the Pliocene of Florida. 



Joseph Leidy (in exchange.) Emys Wyomingensis, from the Bridger Eocene of 

 Wyoming. 



A. E. Foote. Fragment of molar of elephant, from Jalisco, Mexico. 



J. K. Corson. Vertebra; of Saurian, from the Ft. Bridger Eocene. 



Joseph Jeanes. A collection of mammalian remains from the Oligocene and Mi- 

 ocene deposits of France. 



Fossil Inverteurata. 



R. T. Hill. A collection of fossils (and rocks) from the Cretaceous of Texas and 

 Arkansas. 



George Dare. Eleven trays of fossils from New Jersey. 



L. Woolman. Ten trays of Post-Pliocene fossils from New Jersey. 



John H. Campbell. Two species of Post- Pliocene fossils from California. 



J. K. Corson. A collection of Cretaceous fossils from Wyoming. 



Morris B. Miller. Jnoceramtis Cripsii [?) from near Fort Wingate, New Mexico 



Joseph Willcox. Balanus, sp ? from the Caloosahatchie deposits, Florida (Plio- 

 cene,) and six s[ieciesof Mollusca. 




496 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1890^ 



J. E. Ives. Liluites sp ? from Henderson's Station, Pa.; a collection of Creta- 

 ceous fossils from the region of MuUica Hill, N. J. 



Joseph Leidy, Scolithus linearis, from the grounds of the University, Philadel- 

 phia. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Dreisseiia sp ? from the Congeria beds of the Caspian basin. 



T. D. Rand. Coralliferous pebble (Lower Silurian ?), from Southern New Jersey. 



State Geological Survey of Texas. A collection of Eocene fossils (comprising 

 the greater number of the known species) from the Gulf border of the State. 



Minerals, Rocks, etc. 



Miss Frances Lea. Phlogopite, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y., from the collection of 

 the late Dr. Isaac Lea. 



W. W. Jefferis. Leelite, Leni, Delaware Co., Pa.; Capillary Pyrite and Sphale- 

 rite, from Mineral Point, Wis. ; Orthoclase, from Johnson's Quarry, Delaware 

 Co., Pa.; Chondrodite, from Putnam Co., N. Y.; Apophyllite and Calcite, 

 from French Creek Mines, Pa.; Ametliyst Irom Oglethorpe Co., Georgia; As- 

 bestus from Pelham, Mass.; Serpentine from Texas, Lancaster Co., Pa.; Men- 

 accanite from Dublin, Harford Co., Md.; Phlogopite and Serpentine, Edwards, 

 St Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Phlogopite from Muscalonge Lake, St. Lawrence Co., 

 N. Y. ; Trap rock from West Chester, Pa. 



Angelo Heilprin. Clays from Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



Benjamin Sharp. Nine trays of minerals from Antigua. 



Mrs C. J. Bloomfield Moore. Agate chimney filled with crystallized (juartz, from 

 35 m. northwest of Green River Station, on the Union Pacific Railroad. 



W. H. Witte. Siderite and Jasper from Ivy's Mine, Northampton Co., Pa. 



M. Hartman. Five specimens of iron-ore, from Texada Island, British Colum- 

 bia. 



A. W. Moore. Specimens of Guano from Navassa, West Indies. 



E. Fronani. Nodular Quartz, from Philadelphia. 



Joseph Leidy. A collection of rocks from Kennebunkport, Me. ; decomposed 

 granite, from the grounds of the University, West Philadelphia. 



J. E. Ives. Limestone containing a vein of quartz from Henderson's Station, Pa. 



Mrs. W. P. .Saunders. Quartz crystals, from Crystal Hill, near Delaware Water 

 Gap, Pa. 



Plants. 



Prof. Jose N. Rovirosa. Three hundred species of plants from the State of Ta- 

 basco, Mexico. 



Thomas Meehan. Sixty-one species of plants from various regions, mostly culti- 

 vated. 



Prof. J. C. Arthur. Specimens of Tillelia fatens B. and C. (stinking smut or 

 bunt), from fields of Fultz wheat. Haw Patch, Ind. 



Townsend S. Brandegee. One hundred and twenty-one species of plants collected 

 by him in the peninsula of Lower California, Mexico, January, May, 1889. 



John Archagouni. Tubers of Artim orientale L., from Constantinople. 



Dr. Edward J. Dirickson (through Mr. H. N. Poits.) Phoradendron flavescens 

 Nutt. (American mistletoe) in fruit. 




1890.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 497 



John H. Redfield. Six hunched and seventy-nine species of plants collected liy 

 Miguel Bang in Bolivia, S. A., in ] 889 ; 127 species of mosses from Ceylon, col- 

 lected and named by Thwaites ; 13 species of mosses from Sandwich Islands ; 385 

 species of plants cdlected by C. G. Pringle, mostly in the Republic of Mexico, 

 in 1889; Underwood and Cook's N. American Hepaticas, Decades V-VIII ; 

 40 species. 



Wm. M. Canby. Aqidlegia Jouesii Parry, collected by F. Tweedy, in Montana; 

 59 species of European plants, mostly collected in Spain, by E. Reverchon, in 

 1889. 



Ellis and Everhart. Centuries 24 and 25 of North American Fungi, received in 

 exchange for duplicate Centuries heretofore received from estate of Dr. George 

 A. Martin. 



Dr. J. IT. Sandberg, Minneapolis, Minn. Four species of plants from Idaho. 



Agricultural Department, Washington, D. C. Forty-four species of mosses, col- 

 lected in California by H. N. Bolander, and determined by Mrs. E. G. Britton. 



Isaac Burk. Five species of tropical American plants, cultivated at Horticultural 

 Hall, Phila. ; 14 species of plants, mostly from ballast grounds. 



Prof. F. L. Scribner. Fifteen species of plants from Roane Mt., N. C. 



Dr. J. Bernard Biinton. Thirteen species of plants, mostly from Tennessee. 



Academy Expedition to Mexico, 1890. Three hundred and twenty-five species of 

 plants collected in Yucatan, in the vicittity of Orizaba and Mexico, and on the 

 Pacific slope, by Stone, Baker and Heilprin, Febiuary-May, 1890. 



Mrs. E. G. Britton and Dr. J. B. Leiberg. Thirty-nine species of mosses, collected 

 by Dr. Leiberg, in Idaho. 



W. G. Warden, through Thomas Meehan. Seven hundred species collected by 

 J. Bornmiiller in the province of Amasia, Asia Minor. 



Miss Mary A. Schively. Specimens oi Hormaciis Quoyii,2i marine alga, mounted 

 and in spirits. 



Lewis Woolman. .Section of red cedar {^Juniperns Virginintia L.) from Long 

 Beach, near Barnegat, N. J., prostrated by the blizzard of March Ilth, 1888. 



Eugene A. Rau, Bethlehem, Pa. Tribulus terresiris L. and Cetttaurea sohtitialis- 

 L., natives of southern Europe, growing upon iron ore heaps at Bethlehem, Pa. 



Dr. Samuel Lewis. Peloric form of Digitalis purpurea L. 



John K. Small, Lancaster, Pa. Specimens of Asplenium pinnatifidum Nutt. 

 from various localities in Lancaster Co., Pa. 



Prof. Thos. C. Porter. Twenty-three species of plants from Pennsylvania and New 

 Jersey. 



Edward L. Rand and John H. Redfield. One hundred and sixty species of plants 

 from Mt. Desert I., Me., being portion of a series intended as vouchers for a 

 proposed Catalogue of the Flora of that island. 



Mrs. Flora E. Haines, Bangor, Me. Aspidium Filix-mas from Cape Breton. 



Additions to Library. 



In consequence of the amount of scientific matter included in the Proceedings for 

 1890, the list of Additions to the Library has been omitted. The receipt of ex- 

 changes and donations will be acknowledged by mail. 



33 




INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 

 1890. 



Abies 219, 230 



Acarus 280 



Acer 233, 224, 248, 275 



Acrocrinus 152 



Acrocul ia 1 50-1 76 



Actreonella 454, 462 



Actinocrinus...l58, 346-353, 365, 368- 

 370, 378 



Actinocyclus 136, 140 



Actinodiscus 1^6 



Actinopty chus 136 



Actita 150 



Adapis 55 



Adapisorex 54, 56 



Adapisoriculus 54, 57 



Aegialitis 203 



Aerope 41 



./^sculus 274 



Agaricocrinus ] 58, 365 



Agelaius 208, 218 



Agnatha 41 



Ailanthus 222 



Aimophila 212, 213, 215 



Albocrinus 376 



Allagecrinus 354, 355 



Aniazilia 207 



Am bly om ma 280 



Ammod ramus 212, 218 



Ammonites 447-451, 458 



Amphidesma , 143 



Amphistegma 143,447 



A m p h i s t o m u m 4 1 8 



Amphitetras 136 



Ananchytes 456 



Anas 208 



Anaptomorphus 54 



Anaulus ]36 



Ancella 466 



Anchura 450, 453 



Ancillaria 398, 406 



Ancyloceras 454 



Andromeda 23 1 



Andropogon 232, 235, 239 



Angaria 450 



Angelica 231 



Anhinga 203 



Anomalocrinus 379, 380 



Anomia 143, 404 



Anser 203 



Ansturina 205 



Antedon 347, 357, 363, 378-390 



Antliocephalus... 282 



Anthostoma 228 



Anthostomella 228 



Aythya... 217 



Aphelocoma 214 



Apiocri nus 3G2 



Apocynum 230 



Area 143, 403 



Archaeocrinus 366 



Arcopagia 455 



Arctocyon 51, 52, 54, 59 



Ardea 203 



Arenicola 73-75 



Arietes 465 



Arteonis 143 



Artemisia 240 



Arthroacantha 158 



Artibeus 29 



Arundinaria 229 



Ascaris 410 



Asclepias 232 



Asio 125 



Asperula 266 



Aspro 49 



Astarte 143, 146, 402 



Asterina 219, 220 



Asteiolampra 136 



Astrea 145 



Astropecten 318, 330, 334 



Atalapha 29 



Atelestocrinus 384 



Athene 130 



Atraclis 411 



Auchenia 64 



Aulacodiscus 136 



Auliscus 136 



Aulonia 421 



Auricula 455 



Axinsea 403 



Bacliymystax 49 



Badhamia 195 



Baerocrinus 377, 379-390 



Bacillus 438 



498 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIKNCES OF PHILADRLPIIIA. 



499 



Balanus 443 



Bailiyocriinis 37I-5 



Batocriniis 34(5, 347, JUio, 369 



Bairacluis 407 



Bik-mnilclla 4:")() 



Bclosepia 394 



Betoe 341, 342 



Biddulphia 137, 14(1 



Bigelovia 248 



Bij^uonia 220 



Biloculina 143 



Botaurus 21 7 



Botiycrinus 381) 



Bmnella 337 



Buanemoii 218 



Bubo 129 



Biiljonidae 125 



Buccinanops 398 



Buccitiitoii 399, 405 



Buddleia 271 



Hulbilusus 39(3 



Bulemma.. 143 



Biilimulus (i3, 296 



Bulimus 148, 284 



Bulla 401 



Callothru^ 208, 212 



Calonectna 245 



Calosphaeria 221 



Calpiociinus 38S 



Caniclus 412 



Campepliilus 206 



Campy lorhynchus 211 



Cancellaria 397 



Caprina 469 



Capulus 150-181 



Carabocrinus 380 



Cardinalis 209 



Cardita 142, 143, 146, 402, 450, 452 



Cardium 143,403, 447, 450, 455 



Caiex 237 



Caricella 396 



CaroUia 29 



Carpinus 221.233 



Carpodacus 215, 218 



Cassiculus 218 



Castanea 230 



Castrocrinus 387 



Caiharista 204, 213 



Caihartes 204, 213, 214 



Cecrops 283 



Centetes 57,61 



Cenlurus 203, 218 



Centrocrinus 376 



Cepiial anlhus 366 



Cephaloies 13, 27 



Cerataulus 137 



Ceratostoma 226 



Ceratostomella 225 



Cercaiia 416 



Ceriocrinus 385 



Ccrithium..l44, 146, 400, 404, 448, 450 



Certhia 217 



Ceiyle 206,213 



Cestodiscus 137 



CliKtoceros 137 



Chaetomium 220 



Chaetura 206 



Chaliiiolobus 29 



Chama 144 



Chamaeospiza 218 



Cbeilospiiura 413 



Chelidon 412 



Chemnilzia 450, 453 



Cliilonectria 246 



Cliilouycteris 30 



Chondestc^ 218 



Chlorostilbon 206 



Chrysotis 305 



Cibota 403 



Ciccaba 126 



Cidarites 448,449 



Cinulia 450 



Cinclus 213 



Ci ssolopli a 208 



Cladocora 307 



Clavella 395,405 



Clypeosphaeria 238 



Coccocri iius 351, 355 



Cocconema 137 



Cochlespira 395 



Coeliocrinus 389 



Colaptes 214 



Colinus 204 



Columba 204 



Coluber 418 



Columbella 144 



Columbigallina 204, 313 



Compsothlypis 210 



Compt onia 234 



Conch( )derma 281 



Concholepas 401 



Conuias 305 



Contopus 208 



Conus 394 



Corbula 143, 146, 401 



Cordiera 395,396 



Cordjlocrinus 353 



Coriphaena 48 



Cornularia 241 



Corvus 214 



Corylus 268 



Corynorhinus 30 



Cory phodon 52 



Coscinodiscus 137 



Craspedodiscus 1 38 




500 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Crassatella 144, 403, 406 



Crataegus 229 



Creodonta 59 



Crepidula 144, 401 



Crioceras 454 



Cristellaria 143,447 



Ciomyocriiuis loo, 158, 872 



Crotophaga 205 



CruciancUa 266 



Cryptovalsa 224 



Ctenacodon 62 



Cucurbitaria 240, 241 



Ciilicocrinus 353, 355 



Cupressociinus 357 



Cuneya 249 



Cyanea 341 



Cyathocrinus..851, 850, 358, 375, 381- 



390 



Cyclopteiidoe 408 



Cyclorhis 210 



Cyclotella 138 



Cychira 412 



Cyliclma 144,401 



Cymalopleuia 138 



Cynoptetus 13, 28 



Cyperinus 50 



Cyphosoma 451, 455 



Cysticercus 416 



Cylherea 144,402 



Cvtheriopsis 40'Z 



Dredalochila 299 



Decticadapis 57 



Delphinula 450 



Dendrocrinus 379, 380, 381-390 



Dendroica 210, 212, 216 



Deiidropliyllia 145 



Dental ina 143 



Dentalium 144, 146, 401 



Dermacenlor 280 



Diadema 318,327, 333, 335 



Diaponhe 222,233-235 



Diatrype 224, 225. 240, 242 



Diatrypella 225 



Dicladia 138 



Didelphys 58 



Didymella 233 



Didymictis 61 



Didymium 194 



Didymosphaeria 235 



Dimeregramma 138 



Dinematura 282 



D i plopodia 455 



Diploria 303, 807, 312 



Discina 144 



Discoplea 138 



Distomum 282, 414 



Distorsio 395 



Dives 209 



Ditrupa 401 



Dolatocnnus 370, 376 



Dolomedes 420, 421, 424, 432 



Donax 144, 401 



Dorvcrinus 158-181, 346, 365, 370 



Dotl'iidea 248 



Drillia 894 



Dryobates 206, 214 



Echinasier 317, 324-326, 334 



Echinomeira 318, 828, 334, 335 



Echinoihynchus 413 



Ectenociiiuis 879, 3.S0 



Egeria 401 



Ela;ociiniis 360 



Embernagra 209, 218 



Empidoiiax 208, 212 



Enallaster 455, 468 



Encrinus 372, 385 



Epitliemia 138 



Epomophorus 15 



Eqiiiis 182 



Eretmocrinus 346 



Eiiculus 67 



Erinaceus 57 



Erisocrinus 372, 885 



Esox 417 



Ethmodiscus 138 



Eucampia ]38 



Eucheilodon, 395 



Euchelus 344 



Eucladocrinus 158-175, 365 



Eucope 281 



Eumomota 206 



Eulima 400 



Eunotia 138 



Eiipodiscus 138 



Euphonia 209 



Euspira 450, 453 



Euspiiocrinus...357, 358, 372, 380, 384 



Eustrongylus 410 



Eulrenia 149 



Euthria 398 



Exilia 3y5 



Exocoethus 49 



Exogyra 451, 454, 455, 456, 469 



Falco 205, 212, 214 



Fenestella 239 



Ficopsis 399 



Filaria 410, 412 



Florida 63 



Fornes 226 



Forbesiocrinus 388 



Fraxinus 223, 241, 246 



Fregata 203 



Fulgur 145, 146, 405 



Fulica 217 



Fusus 46, 145, 395, 405, 450 



Fusimilra 396 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



501 



Gadus 401 



Galium 260 



Gall inula 2(l3 



Geococc y x 205 



Geothlypis 211 



Geranospizias 204 



Gilberlsocrinus 155-172 



Glandina 41 



Glaucidium 130, 205 



Glypliodiscus 137 



Glyptaster 3(38 



Glyptociinus 353, 354, 3fi3, 3liG 



Gnathopliora 42 



Gnoiimociiiius 388 



Gobiesoci dx 408 



Goniobasis 301 



Goniotliecium 138 



Gor^onia 308 



Gouklia 144, 146 



Grammatophora 138 



Graphiociinus 381, 385 



Grateloupia 402 



Gryphea 451, 452, 456, 466, 4h9 



Guettardiocrinus 362 



Guiraca 209, 216 



Gutiulina 143 



Gyninasio 130 



Gymnuia 57 



Habia 209 



Habroci i nus 368 



Haniamelis 273, 274 



Haplocrinus 354 



H arporhy nclius 216 



Harpyia 14, 28 



Helcion 40l 



Helic:na 186,285-287, 297 



Helix 41, 188, 282, 299 



Helmintliophiia 216 



Hemiaulus 138 



Heterocrinus 355, 379, 380, 883 



Hipponyx 401 



Hippotberium 182 



Hippuiites 448, 462,468, 469 



Holectvpus 455 



Holopus 373 



Holoiburia 317-323, 333, 335 



Homostegia 2^8 



Homocrinus 380-390 



Hoplocrinus 389 



Huttonia 138 



llyKiiodictis 54, 55, 60 



Hyalodiscus 138 



Hybocrinus 355, 377, 379, 3S0-389 



Hybocystis 379 



Hydrochoerus 184, 185 



Hymenochaete 21 9 



Hyocriuus 373 



Hvodectes 59 



Hypociea 245 



Hypericum 272 



Hypoderas ()3 



Hypoxylon 229, 233, 239 



Ilyracotherium 52, 53 



Ichthyocrinus 389 



Iclithyosarcolithes 462, 4ti9 



Icterus 2U8, 214 



Idyia 341 



llyanassa 415 



Indrodon 54 



Inseciivora 56 



locrinus 379,380-386 



Ixodes 280 



Jacana 204 



Janira 454 



Junco 215 



Juni perus 226 



Ketupa 129 



Lacinia 398 



Lasmart^us 282 



Laestadia 230 



Laevibuccinum 398 



Lamna 145 



Lampornis 207 



Lanius 216 



Lappa 266 



Lapparia 396 



Larus 202 



Lalhyrus 238 



Lecanocrinus 388 



Leda 403 



Lepas 443 



Leptosphaeria 236, 237 



Lepus 417 



Latirus 396 



Liatris 267 



Limnsea 301 



Limopsis 403 



Liradiscus 138 



Littorina 400 



Lituites 454 



Lophiodochoerus 54 



Lophostrix 129 



Loxia 215 



Lucina 144, 146, 402, 447 



Luciope rca 48 



Luidia 317,326,327,334 



Lunalia 450 



Lycopersicum 272 



Lycopus 273 



Lycosa 421-427 



Lymnsea 416 



Lymneus 416 



Lvrosoma 146 



Madura 221, 231, 236 



Macrorhinus 410 




502 



PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Maclra 144 



Madrepora 304, 812 



Mseandcina oOo, 806, 812 



Magnolia 235 



Manatus 418 



Marginella 397 



Marsupiocrinus- 158, 351,365, 868 



Massaria 245 



Mastodon 64, 184 



Mastogonia 138 



Mejjarhynchus 207 



Megascops 1 27-1 29 



Mci^istocrinus 366, 369 



Mejiozetetes 207 



Melanconis 236 



Melania 285, 287 



Melanomma 239, 240 



Meleargis 204 



Mellita 318, 328. 332, 334, 335 



Melocrinus 158 



Melopelia 204 



Melosira 138, 140 



Melospiza 212,215 



Mephitis 418 



Meiocrinus 379, 380 



Mernla 211,217 



Mesalia 400 



Mesodon 282, 299 



Mesodonta 55 



Mesoplodon 411, 413, 418 



Mespilocfinus 388 



Metasphaeria 237 



Micro pallas 131 



Micropterus 413 



Microsyops 55 



Miliola 447 



Millerocrinus 373 



Milvulus 214 



Minnis 211 



Miniopterus 30 



Miolaphus 52 



M iocloenus 54 



Mitra 396 



Modiola 135, 403 



Mola 281 



Molossus 15, 80 



Monodonta 343 



Monoptygma 398 



Monostomum 414 



Mormops 30 



Multitubeiculala 61 



Murex 66-72, 145, 305,462, 469 



Mus 412 



Myiarclius 208 



Mylobates 145 



Myriococcum 220 



Mysia 144,402 



Myliloconcha 144 



Mytihis 135, 144 



Nanina 186 



Natica 145, 146, 399, 404, 453 



Nautilus 394 



Navicula 444 



Nereia 144, 146 



Nectria 244,246-248 



Negundo 227 



Neodiloma 343 



Neoplagiaulax 52, 53, 54, 55, 61 



Neplunea 145, 146 



Nerinaia 456, 457, 462, 466, 468 



Neverita 399 



Ninox 130 



Noctilio 30 



Nodosaria 148, 447 



Noetia 403 



Nonionina 143 



Nucula 144, 403 



Nummulina 447 



Nyctala 127 



Nyctalalinus 127 



Nyctea 130 



Nyctiflromus 206 



Oculina 307 



Ocyale 420, 421, 432, 433 



Odontaspis 145 



Odontopolys 395 



Ohiocrinus 37S, 379 



Oliva 145, 397, 406 



Olivula 397 



Ommastrephis 418 



(3nco>tonaa 207 



Onychociinus 353, 373, 388 



Ophiobolus 239 



Opli iodenna 331 



Ophiolhrix 818, 332, 334 



Ophiura 318, 331, 334 



Orbicella 303, 305, 306, 317 



Ortliaspiilotherium 54, 57 



Orthonvchia 150 



Ostrea.'....144, 146, 404. 447, 448, 451, 

 454, 458, 462, 466, 469 



Othilia 324 



Oltawacri mis 378, 380 



Ovis 416 



Pachynolophus 54, 68 



Palaeonictis 52, 61 



Pandanus 230 



Pandion 414 



Pardosa 421, 480-432 



Pansocrinus 380, 384 



Parmelia 244 



Partula 284 



Paius 217 



Passerina 209 



Patelliociinus 876 



Patula 297 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF I'lIILADELPIIIA. 



503 



Pecten 144, 14G, 147, 403, 4r)4. 45!) 



Pectunculus 144, 4055 



Pelecanus 20;^, 411 



Penella 281 



Peiitacrinus 'S'>\ 



Peiitadactylosaster 32") 



Peiila^lomum 418 



Pentreniites 158-176, 359 



Peranus 61 



Perca 41) 



Peristernia 145 



Perna 144, 147 



Persona 395 



Periconia 226 



Petaloconclius 145, 146 



Petroclielidon 210 



Pet rose! ilium 238 



Philadelphus 241 



Phodiliis 125 



Phoenicopteviis , 203 



Plioladomya 450 



Phosphorite 10 



Phoxinus 50 



Physa 416 



Physaloptera 412 



Piiysalospora 229 



Physariim 192 



Pliysetociinus... 158-169, 346, 348, 369, 



371 



Phytolacca 272 



Pia'ya 206 



Picea 276 



Pileopsis 150 



Pinna 403,450 



Pipilo 215,218 



Pirata 421, 428, 429 



Piranga 212 



P.sum 238 



Pitanjjus 207 



Phicocyathus 142, 145, 146 



Plar; i an la X 61 



Platan us 237 



Pla^iogramina 1 38 



Piatyceras 150-180 



Plalycrinus 158-181, 347, 351, 357, 



365, 367 



Plegades 217 



Pleospoia 238 



PI esi adapis 54,55 



Pleuraspidotherium 51, 52, 54, 57 



Pleurosigma 138 



Pleurotoma 145, 146, 394 



Plexaura 308 



Piicatula 403 



PJowrightia 241, 248 



Phyllobothiium 418 



Poi'lilvmbus 202 



Polioplila 211 



Pollicipes 443 



Polygyrella 296, 299, 300 



I'olyporus 245 



Poini I us i;22, 248 



Porites 3(l5 



Poronia 229 



Posidonomy a 458 



Poteriocrinus 158,381 



Procyonictis 55, 61 



Progne 209 



Protoadapis 52-55 



Pro tocard i a 454 



Protocardium 403 



Protodichobune 54 



Piunus 240, 241, 243 



Psal tri parus 217 



Pseudauliscus 138 



Pseudocid aris 449, 455 



Pseudodiadema 449, 455 



Pseudoliva 398 



Pseudovalsa 2 23 



Pterodonta 458, 469 



Pteropodidae 12 



Ptei-opus 14-26, 29 



Pierotocrinus 158-181, 352 



Ptilodus 54,61 



Pulsatrix , 126 



Pupa 43, 44, 296 



Pupida; 31 



Pycnanthemuni 270 



Pycnosaccus 388 



Pyraiiiimitra 400 



Py renophora 238 



Pyrina 451 



Pyrocephalus 2(i8, 212 



Pyrula 399 



Pyxidicula 138 



Quiscalus 209,212,411 



Kadiolites 448, 456, 462, 468 



Ragenella 399 



Raphidodisciis 139 



Regulus 217 



Remondia 451, 452 



Reteocrinus 354,366, 388 



Rhaphoneis 139, 140 



Ribes 248 



Rhal.donema 138 



Rhachiglossa 42 



Rhea 412 



Rhinoceros 64, 182, 183 



Rli i zosolenia ] 39 



llobulina 143 



Rosa 231 



Rosalina 143 



Roseliinia 227, 228 



Rostellaria 395 



Rotalina 143 



Rubus 219 




504 



PROCEEniN(;S OF THK ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Rupornis 204 



Sabal 283 



Sagenocrinus 388 



Salenia 455 



Salix 223, 225, 228, 232, 236, 242 



Salmo 49 



Saltator 209 



Sambiicus 235, 246 



Satcobatus 242 



Saurus 415 



Saxicava 144 



Sayoriiis 217 



Scalaria 400 



Scalpellum 441, 442. 443 



Sceptronei s 139 



Sciadopitys 277 



Schizoblastus 360 



Sciuius 211 



Scobinella 395 



Scotiaptex 137 



Scotopelia 129 



Semnopithecus 416 



Sempeiia 335 



Setopliaga 211 



Shepherdia 24!) 



Sialia 217 



Siderastrcea 305 



Sigaretus 399 



Silpliium 268 



Simia 410 



Siphonocrinus 347, 371 



Sitta 217 



Smilax 228 



Solarium 400 



Spalacotheriu ni 61 



Speotvto 130 



Sphaerella 230,231 



Spliaeiia 221 



Spiziastur 205 



Spiioptera 412 



Spizella 215 



Spondylus 404 



Sporophila 212 



Stapliylea 248 



Steganocrinus 350 



Steiionema 231, 237 



Stelgidoplevyx 210, 212 



Stemonitis 36, 438 



Steplianocrinus 360 



Stephanogonia 139 



Stephanopyxis 139 



Stereum 219 



Stichopus 335 



Stictodiscus 13M 



Siilo-^oma 199 



Stizostedion 48 



Strepsidura 396 



Str.gidae 124 



Strix 124 



Strotocrinus 154-181, 350 



Stvpolophus 61 



Surcuia 394 



Surirella 139 



Surnia 130 



Sy mbalhocrinus 354, 355 



.Symphoricarpus 227, 242, 249 



Synotus 30 



Syrnium 126 



Taluilina 139 



Tachycineta 210,216 



Taenia 417 



Tsenioglossa 42 



Tapes 450 



Tarentuia 420 



Taxocrinus 353, 363, 366, 388 



Teichospora 242,243 



Teleiocrinus 346, 370 



Tellina 401 



Terebra 145, 398, 448 



Terebrifusus 398 



Terpsinoe 139 



Telrabothiium 417 



Tetraclita 443 



Tet racotyle 416 



Textulaiia 140, 143 



Thaumatocrinus 363, 389 



Thryothorus 217 



Thyi-aster 318, 329, 330, 334 



Thyridaria 223 



Tiiyronectria 245 



Tilmadoche 192 



Toxaster 455 



Toxoglossa 42 



Toxopneustes 317, 323, 334, 335 



Tribiilus 64 



Triceratium 139 



Trichia 192, 193, 436, 437 



Trichiurus 415 



Trichocephalus 410, 412 



Trichosomuni 412 



Trichoslema 271 



Tricuspiodon 54, 55, 61 



Trigla 49 



Trigonia 448, 451, 452 



Tiiisodon 54, 61 



Triloculina 143 



Triodopsis 299 



Tristomum 282 



Tritia , 145, 146 



Tritylodon 62 



Trochilus 207, 214 



Trochita 145 



Trocliomoipha 288 



Trochosa 420, 421, 428 



Troglodytes 211,213,217 



Trogon 206 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



505 



Tropidonotus 414 



Tryblionella 140 



Tuba 400 



Turhinella 145 



Turbinolia 4ol 



Turbo 145 



Tuiris 894 



Turriiella 145, 14«, 147, 400, 450 



Tylostoma 450, 458, 462, 4()9 



Typhula 219 



Tyrannus 207, 217 



Ulmus 238. 245 



Ulociinus 385 



Urosalpinx 46 



Ursus 411 



Uvigerina 143 



Vaginulus 296,297 



Valsa 222,223 



Valsaria 236 



Velella 408 



Venericardia 402 



Venturia 233 



Venus 144 



Vertigo 31-35 



Vespe riigo 30 



Vireo 210 



Vitex 272 



Viiis 225,228 



Volutililhes 396 



Volvula 144, 146, 401 



Winteria 240 



Xanthoura 208 



Xenophora 400 



Xiphigorgia 308,817 



Xyriclitliys 48 



Yoldia 144,403 



Zea 229 



Zonites 297 




506 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890- 



GENERAL INDEX. 

 1890. 



Aaron, Eugene M. Contributions to a 

 further knowledge of the North Amer- 

 ican Hesperidae, 64. 



Additions to Museum, 492. 



Allen, Harrison, M.D. On the distri- 

 bution of color-marks in the Ptero- 

 podidse, 12. 



Baker, Frank C. Remarks on Urosal- 

 pinx perrugatus Conr. 11, 46. On 

 modifications of the apex in Murex, 

 66. Notes on a collection of shells 

 from Southern Mexico, 2-50, see 

 Proc. 1891. Remarks on the Family 

 Muricidce, with descriptions of new 

 species, 2-5(1, see Proc. 1891. 



Bancroft, Edw. Co-ossification of axis 

 vertebra with third cervical, 419. 



Banks, Nathan. The spider fauna of 

 the Upper Cayuga Basin, 197. 



Betts, Richard K., announcement of 

 death of, 189. 



Binder, Jacob. Report of the Curator 

 of the William S. Vaux collections, 

 489. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 Annual Repoit of, 480. 



Botanical Section, Annual Report of, 

 484. 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Ethnology and Archaeology, 

 487. 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. On a new 

 genus of Colubridae from Florida, 

 197, 199. 



Bucknell, William, announcement of 

 death of, 63. 



Chapman, Henry C, M.D. and Albert 

 P. Brubaker, M.D. Researches on 

 Respiration, No. 1, 409, see Proc. 

 1891. 



Committee on Hayden Memorial Geo- 

 logical Award, 38. 



Committees, appointment of, 9. 



Conchological Section, Annual Report 

 of, 481. 



Corresponding Secretary, Annual Re- 

 port of, 471. 



Curator of ihe William S. Vaux Col- 

 lections, Annual Report of, 489. 



Curators, Annual Report of, 474. 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D. The devel- 

 opment of Bacillus tuberculosis, 438. 



Elections, 1891,490. 



Ellis, J. B., and Benjamin M. Everhart. 

 New North American Fungi, 219. 

 New species of Fungi from various 

 localities, 409, see Proc. 1891. 



Ennis, Jacob, announcement of death 

 of, 63. 



Entomological Section, Annual Report 

 of, 483. 



Ford, John. Description of a new 

 species of Helix, 149, 18S. 



Goldsmith, Edw. Pea-like Phosphorite 

 from Polk Co., Florida, 10. 



Graff, Frederick, announcement of 

 death of, 148. 



Hartman, W. D., M.D. Description 

 of new species of shells, 284. 



Hayden Memorial Geological Award, 

 Report of Committee on, 38. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Mexican explora- 

 tions, 191. Barometric observations 

 on the heights of Mexican vo'canoes^ 

 with a consideration of the culmina- 

 ting point of the North American 

 Continent, 198, 2.51. The Corals 

 and Coral Reefs of the western waters 

 of the Gulf of Mexico, 278, 303. 

 Eocene Mollusca of the State of 

 Texas, 341, 393. The fossils of the 

 Orizaba marble of Mexico, 341 ; title 

 changed to " The geology and paleon- 

 tology of the Cretaceous deposits of 

 Mexico," 445. Report of Curators, 

 etc., 474. Report of Professor of 

 Invertebrate Paleontology, 487. 



Henszey, Wm. C, announcement of 

 death of, 278. 



Horn, Geo. H., M.D. Report of Cor- 




1890.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



507 



responding Secretary, 471. 



Index to Genera, 498. 



Ives J. E. On Arenicola cristata and 

 its allies, 36, 7-3. Echinoderms from 

 the noithern coast of Yucatan and the 

 harbor of Vera Cruz, 278, 817. 



Jordan, David Starr. On tiie fishes de- 

 scribed in Miiller's Supplemental 

 Volume to the Systema Naturae of 

 Linnaeus, 11, 48. 



Jordan, John, Jr., announcement of 

 death of, 148. 



Keyes, Charles R. Synopsis of the 

 American Carbonic Calyptrreidae, 64, 

 150. 



Knight, J. Frank, announcement of 

 death of, 10. 



Leidy, Jos., M.D. Hypoderas in the 

 Little Blue Heron, 63. Notice of an 

 Ichneumon Fly, 63. Fossil verte- 

 brates from Florida, 64. Hippothe- 

 rium and Rhinoceros from Florida, 

 182. Mastodon and Capybara of 

 South Carolina, 184. Remarks on 

 Ticks, 278. Parasites of Mola 

 rotunda, 281. Beroeon the New Jer- 

 sey coast, 341. Notes on some En- 

 tozoa, 342, 410. Remarks on Vel- 

 ella, 408. 



Librarian, Annual Report of, 472. 



Martindale, Isaac C, election as treas- 

 urer, 281. 



Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to 

 the life-histories of plants, No. V, 

 197, 266. Report of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 484. 



Mineralogical and Geological Section, 

 Annual Report of, 486. 



Morris, Charles. On the influence of 

 previous pregnancies on offspring, 

 281,341. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M.D. Report of Re- 

 cording Secretary, 470. Report of 

 Librarian, 472. 



Officers, councillors and members of 

 finance committee, 490. 



Osborn, Henry F. A review of the 

 Cernaycian Mammalia, 36, 51. 



Parry, Charles C, M.D., announce- 

 ment of death of, 38. 



Pepper, George S., announcement of 

 death of, 182. 



Perot, Charles P., election as member 

 of Finance Committee, 283. 



Pilsbry, H. A. On the anatomy of 

 Aerofe Caffra Fer., 10, 41. Note on 

 a southern Pupa, 36, 44. On a new 

 Bulimulus, 63. New East Indian 



Land Shells, 149, 186. New and 

 little-known American Mollusca, No. 

 3, 2-50, 296. Trochidw new and old, 

 278, 343. On Helix albolabris var. 

 maritima, 282. Note on the soft 

 parts and dentition of Stomatella, 342. 

 Description of a new Japanese Scal- 

 pellum, 441. Report of Conchologi- 

 cal Section, 481. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archaeolo- 

 gy, annual report of, 487. 



Professor of Inveiteiiratc Paleontology, 

 annual report of, 487. 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, an- 

 nual report of, 488. 



Queen James W., announcement of 

 death of, 197. 



Rand, Theo. D. The genesis and hori- 

 zon of the Serpentines of South East- 

 ern Pennsylvania, 36, 76, 148 ; Geol- 

 ogy of the South (Chester) Valley 

 Hill, 435. Report of the Mineral- 

 ogical and Geological Section, 486. 



Recording Secretary, annual report of, 

 470. 



Redfield, John H. Report of Botani- 

 cal Section, 484. 



Report of Biological and Microscopical 

 Section, 480. 



Report of Botanical Section, 484. 



Report of Conchological Section, 481. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 471. 



Report of the Curator of the William S. 

 Vaux Collections, 489. 



Report of Curators, 474. 



Report of Entomological Section, 483. 



Report of Librarian, 472. 



Report of Mineialogical and Geologi- 

 cal Section, 486. 



Report of Professor of Ethnology and 

 Archaeology, 487. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate Pale- 

 ontology, 487. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate Zo- 

 ology, 488. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 470. 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. A remarkable 

 variation of Stemonitis Bauerlinii 

 IVIass. 36 ; New Myxomycetes in 

 Century XXV of Ellis and Everhart's 

 North American Fungi, 182, 192; 

 Trichia proximella Karst, 436, 



Ryder, J. A. The function and histol- 

 ogy of the yolk-sac of the young 

 Toad-f^sh, 407. 



Sharp. Benjamin, M. D. Variations in 

 Bulimus exilis 149; An account of 

 the Vincelonian Volcano, 197, 289; 




508 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1890. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate 

 Zoology, 488. 



Skinner, H., M. D. Report of Ento- 

 mological Section, 483. 



Sterki, V. On new forms of Vertigo, 

 31. 



Stone Witmer. Catalogue of the Owls 

 in the Collection of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, 

 124; On birds collected in Yucatan 

 and Southern Mexico, 197, 201 ; Spi- 

 ders of the Family Lycosidae from 

 Pennsylvania and New Jersey, 250, 

 420. 



Wachsmuth, Charles and Frank Spring- 



er. The ])erisomic plates of the Cri- 

 noids, 278, 345. 



Williams, Isnac J., announcement of 

 death of, 189. 



Wilson, Rathmell, announcement of 

 death of, 250. 



Wingate, Harold. Note on Stemoni- 

 tis maxima Qz., 438 ', Report of Bio- 

 logical and Microscopical Section, 

 480. 



Woolman, Lewis. Geology of Artesian 

 Wells at Atlantic City, 11, 444; Ma- 

 rine and Fresh-Water Diatoms and 

 Sponge-Spicules from the Delaware 

 River Clays of Philadelphia, 189. 




Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phi 



5^^=^^^. 



.»> 



■t-'i 





7 



-■>^: 



Plate IX. 



C%st /^"' ' J 



' "^ 



J. 



% 



G. Liljvall, A. M. Westergren, del. 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON PHRISOMIC PLATES. 





r 



-^^^ 



y-j 



,> ■■'""Iteto^ 



m 



]£^- 



■ -v 



^^ 



^-/Y 



m --^^ 





^\xp 



o 



'<^. 



o 



f^ 





Proc, Acad .Nb t . Sfi.Plula . 1890 . 



i'luloXI 



Geo S HarriE&SonB LuKPhiU 



HEILPRIX, EOCENE FOSSILS OF TEXAS. 





Prnc. Acarl ^^1 1 Sri Pl,,l;, 1890 



l*lHtc=. XII 





'x.^'^'-^'^jcp-'^ 







■;S^>* 





^ -larrisc'ScrLB LitKPhila. 



HEILPRLX, CRETACEOUS FOSSILS OF MEXICO. 




A 




IVoc.Acad.Xal.Sri.Plula.liiflO 



Piute XI 



iieilr riri.aei. 



S Harris iSrScne Lnh.Phila 



IIEILPRIX, CRETACEOUS FOSSILS OF MEXICO. 





Proc.Acad.Nat. Sci.Phila. 1890, 



Hate XIV 



/ 



/"\^ 





-v^"' 



^i^a**^"^ 



./ 



^o.S H -.rrisASoriB LithPhiU, 



HETLPRIX, CRETACEOUS FOSSILS OF MEXICO. 





SCI. PHiLA. is; 



STONE, LYCOSID/E OF NEW JERSEY. 








i 










PROCEEDINGS 



1 



|tatUnm of %nt\m\ itmm 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PARTI. JAJVUARY-MARCH, 1890. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D. 



Edw. J.. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



1^ 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1890. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Parts^l and 2 of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1S84. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part to 

 subscribers; and to others $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Lbidy, M. D., LL.D. 



The FiKST SuRiES of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871 

 (of which nineteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1889), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865 — 71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy' has the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 

 Description op Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say-. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^ (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List or American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology' of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



By Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index. Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 C5YN0PSIS OF the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. i 



Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 60 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers — All ihe publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



June, i8go. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs, Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2,500, to be known as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband the 

 late Prof, Ferdinand V. Hayden, M, D., LL, D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




coisrTEisrTS. 



PAGE. 



Standing Committees. ......'..... 9 



Goldsmith, Edward. Pea-like Phosphorite from Polk Co., Florida. . . .10 



Allen, Harrison, M. D. On the distribution of color-marks in the Pteropodidae. . 12 



Sterki, Dr. V. On new forms of Vertigo. ........ 31 



Rex, George A., M. D. A remarkable variation of Stemonitis Bauerlinii Mass. . 36 



Hayden Memorial Geological Award. ......... 38 



PiLSBRY, H. A. On the Anatomy of Aerope caffra Fer. (Plate I.) .... 41 



PiLSBRY, H. A. Note on a Southern Pupa 44 



Baker, Frank C. Remarks on Urosalpmx perrugatus Conr. .... 46 



Jordan, David Starr. On the fishes described in Miiller's supplemental volume to 



the Systema Naturce of Linnseus. ......... 48 



Osborn, Henry Fairfield. A review of the Cemaysian Mammalia. ... 51 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Hypoderas in the Little Blue Heron. ..... 63 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Notice of an Ichneumon Fly 63 



PiLSBRY, H. A. On a new Bulimulus. . 63 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Fossil vertebrates from Florida. ...... 64 



Baker, Frank C. On the modifications of the apex in Murex. .... 66 



Ives, J. E. On Arenicola cristata and its allies. ....... 73 



Rand, Theodore D. Notes on the genesis and horizons of the serpentines of South- 

 eastern Pennsylvania. ........... 76 



Stone, Witmer. Catalogue of the Owls in the collection of the Academy of Natural 



Sciences of Philadelphia. ........... 124 



WoOLMAN, Lewis. Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City, N. J. . • . 132 




PROCEEDINGS 



1 



a 



^tdmi of l^dlKt^l ^tmm 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART II, APRIL-SEPTEMBER, 1890. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, ;v1. D. 



Edw, J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehax, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR : Edwakd J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE. 

 1890. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACAMMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Parts 1 ami 2 of volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issuetl — 1847 to 1888. The jjrice per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part to 

 subscribers; and to others $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. A^II contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of No,rth America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M. D., LL. D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $±0 to members, and to the public, $18. 



The FiR>4T Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1811 to 

 1866, of whi(>h eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members ; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871 

 (of which nir.eteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1889), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchologv, 1865 — -71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 p.ages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wjod engvr.vings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $1 each. 



The A'''ADE>iy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed : 

 Descru'tion of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; i^lain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vol?., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatidj> (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index. Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers — All the publications of the Society vi'ill be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 Logan Square. 



Noiiember, iSgo. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2,500 to be knoAvn as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband, the 

 late Prof. Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. I)., LL. D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTElsrTS. 



PAGE. 



WooLMAN, Lewis. Geology of Artesian Wells at Atlantic City, N. T. (Concluded.) 145 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Variations in Bulimus exilis 148 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. Remarks on the exuviae of snakes. .... 149 



Keyes, Charles R. Synopsis of American Carbonic Calyptrteidse. (Plate II.) . 150 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Hippotherium and Rhinoceros from Florida. . . . 182 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Mastodon and Capybara of South Carolina. . . . 184 



PiLSBRY, H. A. New East Indian Land Shells. 186 



Ford, John. Description of a New Species of Helix 188 



WoOLMAN, Lewis. Marine and Fresh-Water Diatoms and Sponge-spicules from the 



Delaware River Clays of Philadelphia. ........ 189 



Heilprin, Angelo. Mexican Explorations 191 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. Descriptions of three new species of Myxomycetes, with notes 



on other forms in Century XXV of Ellis & Everhart's North American Fungi. . 192 



Brown, Arthur Erwin. On a new genus of Colubridae from Florida. . . . 199 



Stone, Witmer. On Birds Collected in Yucatan and Southern Mexico. . . . 201 



Ellis, J. B. and B. J. Everhart. New North American Fungi 219 



Heilprin, Angelo. Barometric Observations among the High Volcanoes of Mexico, 



with a consideration of the Culminating Point of the North American Continent. 251 

 Meehan, Thomas. Contributions to the Life-Histories of Plants, No. V. On the 

 Anthers of Lappa major. The Pollination of Crucianella stylosa. Note on 

 Unisexuality in Connection with the Order of Flowering Plants. On the varying 

 Character and Dichogamy in Flowers of Corylus Avellana. Dioecism in Labiatee. 

 Self-fertilizing Flowers. On the Male and Hermaphrodite Flowers of .^sculus 

 parviflora. On the Direction of Spiral Twist in the Leaves of the Norway 



Spruce 266. 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Remarks on Ticks •. 278 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Parasites of Mola rotunda 281 



Pilsbry, H. a. On Helix albolabris var. maritima 282 



Hartman, W. D., M. D. Description of New Species of Shells. (Plate III). . 284 



Sharp, Benjamin, M. D. An Account of the Vincelonian Volcano. (Plate IV). . 289 



Pilsbry, H. A. New and little-known American Moilusca, No. 3. (Plate V). . 296 

 Heilprin, Angelo. The Corals and Coral Reefs of the Western Waters of the Gulf 



of Mexico. (Plates VI and VII) 303 



Ives, J. E. Echinoderms from the Northern Coast of Yucatan and the harbor of 



Vera Cruz. (Plate VIII) 317 




PROCEEDINGS 



-4 1 A, 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART III, OCTOBER-DECEMBER, 1890. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Noi.AN, M. D., Thomas Mrehan, '^/^ 



J. H. Redkield. 



EDITOR : Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



I,0«AN SQUARE. 

 1891. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Jouisnal and Parts 1 and 2 of volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1888. The price per volume of four parts is $10, ro S3 per part to 

 subscribers; and to others .$12.50 per volume, or §3.75 per part. Vol. VII ocntains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidv, M. D., LL. D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series ok the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second .Series of the Proceedings, commencing .January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871 

 (of which twenty volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1890), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American .Journal op Co.nchologv, 1865 — 71. Seven vols., Svo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works forsale at the prices affixed : 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the U.nited States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plattj paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, «$8. 50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostlj' sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water Univalve Mollcs(;a of the United States. By S. S. 



IIaldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored ■ 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^ (Melanians) op the United States. By 



• Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of Americas Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoir,^ 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Ohder Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil Conchology of C. S. Rafinesqce. Editcil 



by Wm. (t. Binnky .and G. W. Tryon, Jr. .$2.50. 

 Ohseisvations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index. Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



Plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Lsaac Lea. .$3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers — AH the publications of the Society will be supplied to 

 Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M. D., at the Hall of the Academy, 

 l.ogan Square. 



I'ebriiary, iSgi. 




Hayden Memorial Geological Fund. 



Mrs. Emma W. Hayden has given to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences in trust the sum of $2,500 to be known as the Hayden 

 Memorial Geological Fund, in commemoration of her husband, the 

 late Prof Ferdinand V. Hayden, M. I)., LL. D. According to the 

 terms of the trust, a bronze medal and the balance of the interest 

 arising from the fund are to be awarded annually for the best pub- 

 lication, exploration, discovery or research in the sciences of geology 

 and paleontology, or in such particular branches thereof as may be 

 designated. The award and all matters connected therewith are 

 to be determined by a committee to be selected in an appropriate 

 manner by the Academy. The recognition is not confined to 

 American naturalists. 




CONTENTS. 



I'AGE. 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Beroe on the New Jersey Coast 341 



PiLSBRY, H. A, Trochidge, new and old. 343 



Wachsmuth. Charles & Frank Springer. The perisomic plates of the Crinoids. 



(Plates IX, X) 345 



Heilprin, Angelo. The Eocene Mollusca of the State of -Texas. (Plate XI). . 393 

 Ryder, John A. The functions and histology of the Yolk-sac of the Young Toad- 

 fish 407 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Remarks on Velella - . 408 



Leidy, Joseph, M. D. Notices of Entozoa 410 



Bancroft, Edward. Co-ossification of Axis Vertebra with Third Cervical. . . 419 

 Stone, Witmer. Pennsylvania and New Jersey Spiders of the Family Lycosidae. 



(Plate XV.) 420 



Rand, Theodore D. Geology of the South (Chester) Valley Hill. . . . 435 



Rex, Geo. A., M. D. Trichia proximella Karst 436 



WiNGATE, Harold. Note on Stemonitis maxima Sz. 438 



Dixon, Samuel G., M. D. The development of Bacillus tuberculosis. . . . 438 



PiLSBRY, Henry A. Description of a New Japanese Scalpellum. .... 441 



WooI-Man, Lewis. Geology of Artesian Wells, Atlanlic City, N. J. ... 444 



Heilprin, Angelo. The geology and paleontology of the Cretaceous Deposits of 



Mexico. (Plates XII, XIII, XIV) 445 



Report of Recording Secretary. .......... 470 



Report of Corresponding Secretary. .......... 471 



Report of Librarian. ............ 472 



Report of Curators. (Plates XV, XVI, XVII) 474 



Report on the Operations of the Expedition to Yucatan and Mexico 478 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section. ....... 480 



Reiwrt of the Conchological Section. ......... 481 



Report of the Entomological Section. ......... 483 



Report of the Botanical Section. . 484 



Report of the Mineralngical and Geological Section. ....... 486 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology. ...... 487 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology. ...... 487 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. ....... 488 



Report of the Curator of the William S. Vaux Collections. ..... 489 



Officers, Couneillors and Finance Committee for 1891. ...... 490 



Elections. 490 



Additions to Museum. 492 



Index to Genera 498 






