



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



18 8 5. 



COMMITTEE OF PUBLICATION: 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor : EDWARD J. NOLAN, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL, SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQUARE, 



18 86. 




Academy op Nattjkal Sciences of Philadelphia, 



February 4, 1886. 



I hereby certify tliat printed copies of the Proceedings for 1885 have been 

 presented at the meetings of the Academy, as follows : — 



Pages 



9 to 24 

 25 to 40 



41 to 88 

 89 to 96 

 97 to 112 

 113 to 144 



i is to m 



177 to 22 I 

 225 to 240 

 241 to 272 

 273 to 304 

 305 to ■■■■■<-2 

 353 to 384 

 385 to 416 



September 1, 1885. 

 September 29, 1885. 

 o.tober 6, 188 

 October 13, 1885. 

 November L7, 18 

 December 15, 1885. 

 Januarj 19, 1886. 



EDWARD J. NOLAN. 



Recording & en tary. 



philadelphia 

 . Kiloare, Printer. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For Verbal Communications see General Index. 



PAGE. 



Bicknell, Ernest P. and Fletcher B. Dresslar. A Review of the Species 



of the Genus Semotilus 14 



Blatchley, Willis S. On the American Species of the Genus Umbra. . . 12 



A Review of the Species of the Genus Pimephales 63 



On the Genus Aphredoderus 136 



Eastlake, F. Warrington. Entomologia Hongkongensis — Report on 



the Lepidoptera of Hongkong 81 



Eigenman, Carl H. and Morton W. Fordice. A Review of the Ameri- 

 can Eleotridinae. 66 



A Catalogue of the Fishes of Bean Blossom Creek, Monroe Co., 

 Indiana 410 



Everman, Barton W. and Morton W. Fordice. List of Fishes col- 

 lected in Harvey and Cowley Counties, Kansas 412 



Gentry, Alan F. Description of a New Species of the Genus Cyano- 



corax 90 



A Review of the Genus Phrynosoma 138 



Hall, Edward A. and J. Z. A. McCaughan. A Review of the Ameri- 

 can Genera and Species of Mullidse 149 



Hartman, Wm. D., M. D. Descriptions of new Species of Partula, 



and a Synonymic Catalogue of the Genus ... 203 



Lewis, H. Carvill. Marginal Karnes 157 



Meehan, Thomas. Biographical Notice of Henry N. Johnson 381 



Meek, Seth E., and Edward A. Hall. A Review of the American 



Genera and Species of Batrachiche 52 



Meek. Seth E.. and Robert Ntwland. A Review of the Species of the 



Genus Esox 367 



A Review of the American Species of the < renus Scorpiena 394 



Morris, Charles. On the Air-bladder of Fishes 124 



Attack and Defense as Agents in Animal Evolution 



Rand, Theo. I). Notes on the Lafayette Serpentine Belt 407 



& 




8 LIST OF 0ONTEIBUTOR8. 



PAGE. 



Scott. W. l'>. Cervalcefi Americanus, ;i fossil Moose, or Elk, from the 



Quaternary <>i' Now Jersey 181 



mer, F. Lamson. A Revision of the North American Melicse ... . 40 



Scudder, Samuel II. New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches 



from the older American Rocks 34 



Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches 105 



Btejneger, Leonhard. Uemarks on Lanius robustus Baird, based on 



an examination of the Type Specimen 91 



Strecker, Eermann. Description of a new Colias from the Rocky 

 Mountains, and of an Example of I'olymelianism in Samia 



Cecropia 24 



Description of new Species of Lepidoptera 174 



-ninth. Charles, and Prank Springer. Revision of the Palaeo- 

 crinoidea. Pari III. Discussion of the Classification and Rela- 

 tions of the Rrachiate C'rinoids, and conclusion of the Generic 

 Descriptions 225 




PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1885. 



January 6, 1885. 



Dr. Chas. Schaeffer in the chair. 



Twentj'-six persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On the American Species of the Genus Umbra," by Willis S. 



Blatchley. 



"A Review of the Species of the Genus Semotilus," by Ernest 



P. Bicknell and Fletcher B. Dresslar. 



January 13. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty -four persons present. 



On some Parasitic Worms of Birds. — Prof. Leidy stated that 

 Dr. B. H. Warren, of Westchester, much interested in ornitho- 

 logical pursuits, had submitted to his examination a number of 

 parasitic worms obtained in the preparation of specimens. 

 Recently he had sent to him the carcass of a Snow Bird, Junco 

 hyemalis, in which he reported a multitude of worms filling the 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



thoracico-abdominal cavity, and ' extending into the neck and 

 beneath the skin of the breast and abdomen. From the carcass, 

 Beventy-two worms were obtained, of which two-thirds were 

 females ranging from 90 to 120 mm. in length; the rest males, 

 ranging from 4n to 55 nun. From the abdomen of another bird, 

 Dr. Warren obtained five worms, three females from 55 to 90 

 mm., and i wo males, 40 and 55 mm. In twenty-two birds examined 

 b\ Dr. Warren, the parasites were found only in the two indicated. 

 Flic worms appear to be the Filaria obtusa Rudolphi, wdiich 

 infests the Hirundo rvstica, and other species of European Swal- 

 lows. The worms of the Snow Bird reach double the length of 

 those of the Swallows, but in other characters agree with the 

 descriptions of F. obtusa, as given by Diesing and Dujardin, and 

 also with the figures given by the latter (Hist. Helminthes, pi. 

 iii). except that it is uncertain as to the existence in our speci- 

 mens of the buccal armature represented b} r Dujardin. The 

 worms are translucent white, with a chocolate-brown intestine 

 and white uteri and testes. The caudal extremity is obtuse, 

 without appendages, and in the male possesses two spicules, of 

 which the longer curved one is F125 mm. long, and the shorter 

 twisted one 0*5 mm. long. The ova, containing developed 

 embryos, are 0*045 mm. long and 0032 mm. broad. 



Six other specimens, apparently also pertaining to Filaria 

 obtusa, Dr. Warren obtained from the abdominal cavity partly 

 imbedded in the wall, of a Meadow Lark, Sturnella magna. Two 

 are females, 130 and 140 mm. long by 0'625 mm. thick ; and four 

 are males, from 50 to 60 mm. long by 0\5 mm. thick. 



Six specimens of another Filaria were obtained from the 

 abdomen of a female Kingfisher, Geryle alcyoa. The species 

 appears to be the Filaria physalura of Bremser, described from 

 specimens obtained from several species of Brazilian Kingfishers. 

 Five of the worms are females, ranging from one foot to one foot 

 and a half in length, and from one to one and a half millimetres 

 in thickness. The head is obtuse, and the body gradualby tapers 

 to the tail. The mouth is bounded by a t pair of small conical 

 papillae. The five females measure, respectively, 12, 13, 14, 17, 

 and 18 inches. A single male is 35 mm. long by 0*625 mm. thick. 

 The tail is incurved, ends in a minute blunt cone, and is bialate, 

 with the alee short and quinquecostate. The length of the alated 

 portion is 0-35 mm. The spicule, partially exserted, is recurved. 

 The specimens, when alive, were pink in color, and exhibited a 

 slender chocolate-brown intestine, with large tortuous white uteri. 



From the thoracic cavity of a Gray Snipe, Gallinaqo Wilsoni, 

 Dr. Warren obtained five Flukes, 18 mm. long, by 4 mm. broad. 

 These appear to be Mono&tomum. mutabile. 



Prom a Whippoorwill, Antrostomus vociferus, Dr. Warren 

 obtained four worms, two females of 18 mm., and two males of 

 12 mm., which appear to be Ascaris subulata. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



From the Pileated Woodpecker, Hylotomus pileatus, Dr. War- 

 ren obtained ten worms, which appear to pertain to the Spiroptera 

 quadriloba Rudolphi, the female of which was originally described 

 from specimens found in the Green Woodpecker, Picus viridis. 

 The specimens are reported as having been found in the abdomi- 

 nal cavity. Six are females from 9 to 12 mm. long by 0*5 mm. 

 thick, and four males 7 and 8 mm. long by 0"375 mm. thick. 

 Body white, nearly equally attenuated towards both ends; trans- 

 versely wrinkled, and anteriorly minutety, regularly and sharply 

 annulated ; mouth quadrilobate. Tail of female conical subacute ; 

 tail of male bialate, sexcostate, end acute ; spicules two, the 

 longest 1*5 mm. long, the shortest - 5 mm. long. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



ON THE AMERICAN 8PECIE8 OF THE GENUS UMBRA. 

 BY WILLIS 8. BLATCHLEY. 



I have compared numerous specimens of mud-minnows (Umbra 

 Miiller), from different parts of the United States, with a view of 

 ascertaining whether more than one species exists in our waters. 

 I find, as already noted by Jordan and Bean, two types ; the one 

 (limi) inhabiting the waters of the great lake region and north- 

 westwardly ; the other (pygrtidea), inhabiting the coastwise 

 streams from Connecticut to North Carolina. 



On careful comparison, the only constant difference between 

 these forms, which I am able to appreciate, is the coloration. 



The true Umbra limi is dull olive-green in color, with about 

 fourteen narrow, pale, transverse stripes, often obscure in the 

 young ; dark bar at base of caudal much less distinct, and lower 

 jaw always paler than in pygmaea. 



The eastern form, which I regard as a geographical subspecies 

 ( Umbra limi pygmaea), is much darker in color, with about twelve 

 pale, narrow longitudinal instead of transverse stripes, the one 

 beginning at upper angle of opercle being double the width of the 

 others ; dark bar at base of caudal very distinct, extending over 

 l£ scales ; lower jaw dark, almost black in adults. 



The following is the synonymy of each of the two forms : — 



Umbra limi. 



Hydrargyra limi Kirtland, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., iii, 1840, 277 

 (Northern Ohio). 



Melanura limi Agassiz, Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1855, 217 ; Packard & 

 Putnam, Amer. Nat., Jan., 1872 (Mammoth Cave); Jordan, Man. 

 Vert., 1st ed., 1876, 253, 2d ed., 1878, and 3d ed., 1880, 265 ; Jordan, 

 Rept. Geol. Surv. Ind., 1875, 33 ; Jordan & Copeland, Check List 

 Fresh Wat. Fish. N. A., 1877, 143; Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 ix, 1877, 49 (Ohio Valley); Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., i, 1877, 

 \... 4, 103 (Suamico R., Fox R., Rock R., Wisconsin R., White R.); 

 Nelson, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., i, 43 ; Jordan, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. 

 Hist., ii, 1878, 52 (Johnson and Union Counties, Illinois; Crystal 

 Lake, McHenry Co., 111.); Jordan & Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 xii. L878, 84 (Ohio and 111. R. Basins) ; Forbes, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. 

 Hist., ii. 1878, 7H (Food of Melanura limi). 



Umbra limi Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 232; Jordan, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., 1877, 44 (Lakes, Laporte Co., Ind.; 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



St. Joseph's R., Maumee R., Tippecanoe R , White R.); Jordan, 

 Rept. Geol. Surv. Ohio, iv, 1882, 912 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis 

 Fish. N. A., 1883, 350. 



Hydrargyra fusca Thompson, Nat. Hist. Vt., 1842, 137 (Lake Cham- 

 plain). 



Hydrargyra atricauda De Kay, New York Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 220 

 (Lake Champlain). 



Umbra limi pygmaea- 



Leuciscus pygmceas De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 214 (Tappan, 



Rockland Co., N. Y.). 

 Melanura pygmcea Baird, Ninth Smithson. Rept., 1855, 28 (New Jersey 



Coast); Jordan, Man. Vert., 2d ed., 1878, and 3d ed., 265, 1880 ; 



Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., i, 1877, No. 4, 104 ; Jordan & 



Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, 1878, 84 (James R., Neuse R.). 

 Umbra pygmcea Bean, MSS.; Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., x, 1874, 



53 (Delaware R.); Jordan, Rept. Geol. Surv. Ohio, iv, 1882, 913; 



Bean, Cat. Fish. International Fish Exhibition, London. 1883, 84 



(Kingston, N. C). 

 Fundulus fuscus Ayres, Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., iv, 1843, 296 (Brook 



Haven, Long Island). 

 Melanura annulata Agassiz, Amer. Journ. Sci. Arts, 1855, 217 (not 



Exoglossum annulatum Rafinesque). 




1-1 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A REVIEW OF THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS SEM0TILTJ8. 

 BY ERNEST P. BICK.NELL AND FLETCHER B. DRESSLAR. 



In this paper we give the synonymy of the species of the genus 

 Semotilus, with an analytical key by which they may be distin- 

 guished. 



The specimens which we have studied belong to the Museum 

 of the Indiana Universit}', most of them having been collected 

 by Professor David S. Jordan. 



SEMOTILUS. 



Semotilus Rafinesque, Ichtta. Ohiensis, 1820, 49 (dorealia.) 

 Leucosomus Heckel, " Russegger's Reise, 1841, 1042 " (argenleus.) 

 Cheilonemus Baird, Storer's History Fishes Mass., 1856,285 (pulchellus.) 



Analysis of Species of Semotilus. 



a. Origin of dorsal fin about midway between middle of orbit and 

 base of caudal ; body rather robust, especially anteriorly. 

 Vertebne ' 22 + 20 ; the interneural spine of first dorsal ray 

 inserted between fifteenth and sixteenth neural spines. A 

 distinct black spot on anterior part of base of dorsal ; color- 

 ation dusky, little silvery, rosy below in spring. 

 h. Scales comparatively small, crowded anteriorly, their number 

 about 10-54-1 ; head large and broad, its length 3^ in 

 head ; maxillary barbel very small, indistinct in young 

 specimens; eye small, 6 to 7 times in head (in adult); 

 dusky bluish above, paler below ; belly white ; size medium, 

 reaches a length of about a foot. atromaculatus. 1. 



66. Scales rather large, not crowded anteriorly, their number 

 about 9-48-5 ; head 3| in length ; maxillary barbel well 

 developed ; eye rather large, its diameter about four in 

 head in young ; dark bluish above and on upper part of 

 Bides, becoming rather abruptly light below lateral line; 

 Bize small, attains a length of 3 inches or more. 



tho?-eauianus. 2. 



1 In Semotilus atromaculatus. This character has not been verified in S. 

 auianvi. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 15 



aa. Origin of dorsal fin about midway between nostril and base 

 of caudal ; scales not crowded anteriorhy, their number 

 about 8-45-5 ; body rather more slender ; vertebrae 22+20 ; 

 interneural spine of first dorsal ray inserted between 

 thirteenth and fourteenth neural spines ; head moderate, 

 about 4 in length ; maxillary barbel very small ; eye high 

 up, about 4^ in head ; color bright metallic bluish on upper 

 part of body, becoming white below ; no black spot on base 

 of dorsal ; size comparatively large, reaching a length of 

 18 inches. bullaris. 3. 



1. Semotilus atromaculatus. Creek Chub, Horned Dace. 



Cyprinus atromaculatus Mitchill, American Monthly Magazine, ii, 



1817, 324 (Wallkill R.). 

 Leuciscus atromaculatus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842. 210, 



plate xxxii, fig. 102; Storer, "Synopsis Fishes N. A., 1846, 409" 



(copied). 

 Semotilus atromaculatus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 



204. 

 Leucosomus atromaculatus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1861, 



523. 

 Semotilus dorsalis Rafinesque, Ichth. Ohiensis, 1820, 49 (Kentucky) ; 



Kirtland, " Zoology Ohio, 1838, 169;" Kirtland, Boston Journal Nat. 



Hist., 1841, vol. iii, 181, 345. 

 Leuciscus dorsalis Storer, '-Synopsis Fishes N. A., 1846, 411." 

 Semotihis cephalus Rafinesque, Ichth. Ohiensis, 182 >, 49 (Kentucky); 



Kirtland, Zoology Ohio, 1838, 169 ; Kirtland, Boston Journal Nat. 



Hist., 1840, vol. iii, 345. 

 Leuciscus cephalus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fish., 1842, 214; Storer, 



"Synopsis Fishes N. A., 1846, 409." 

 Leuciscus storeri Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, vol. xvii, 



1844, 319 (N. Y.). 

 Leuciscus iris Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, 1844, vol. 



xvii, 255, plate 496 (N. Y. and Carolina). 

 Leuciscus pulchtlloides Ayres, "Proc. Boston Society Natural History, 



1849, vol. iii, 157." 

 Leucosomus pallidusGira.nl Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 190 



(Antelope Creek, Arkansas); Girard, Pacific R. R. Rept., 1858, 251, 



PI. 61, fig. 6; Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 251-2 



(Antelope Creek, Arkansas). 

 Semotilus pallidus Cope, Cyprinidae Penn., 1866, 364 (Platte R.), (no 



description); Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, lsted, 1876, 279. 

 Leucosomus incrassatus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 



251-2 (Near Choctaw Agency); Girard, Pacific R. R. Rept., 1858, 



252, PI. 61, fig. 1 (Near Choctaw Agency). 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Semotilus speciosus Giiard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1856, 204 (Sweet 

 Water R., Nebraska); Girard, Pacific R. R. Rept., 1858, 283, PI. 61, 

 fig. 11 (Tributary of Platte River). 



Semotilus macrocephalus Giiard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1856, 204 

 (Fort Pierre). 



Leucosomus macroeephalus Girard, Pacific R. R. Rept., 1858, 252, PI. 

 61, fig. 1 (Fort Pierre). 



Semotilus hammondi Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1860, 474 

 (Kansas). 



Semotilus corporalis Putnam, Bulletin Museum Comparative Zoology, 

 1863, 8 (synonymy only, not Cyprinus corporalis Mitchill); Cope, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1865, 85 (Platte River); Cope, Cyprinidae 

 Penn., 1866, 363, PI. 10, fig. 2 ; Storer, History Fishes Mass., 1867, 

 256 (near Williams College, no description) ; Cope, Hayden's Geo- 

 logical Survey, Wyoming, for 1870, 1872, 442, 472 (Platte R.); Abbott, 

 "American Naturalist, April, 1870, 12" (Delaware R.); Jordan, 

 Indiana Geological Survey, 1874, 223 ; Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, 

 1st ed., 1876, 277 ; Jordan, Bulletin Buffalo Society Nat. Hist., 1876, 

 94; Jordan, Annals Lyceum Nat. Hist. N. Y., 1877, 327, 362, 368, 369, 

 376 (Ocmulgee R., Etowah R., White R., Ind.); Jordan, Annals N. 

 Y. Acad. Sciences, vol. i, No. 4, 107, 1877 (Housatonic R., Hudson 

 R., Cayuga Lake, Genesee R., Delaware R., L. Erie, L. Michigan, 

 Fox R., Rock R., Peckatonica R., Wisconsin R., Suamico R., White 

 R., Rlinois R., Ohio R., Kentucky R., Rock Castle R., Cumberland 

 R., Salt R., Powell's R., French Broad R., Etowah R., Ocmulgee 

 R.); Jordan & Brayton, Bulletin U. S. National Museum, 1878, xii, 

 26, 38, 54, 68, 80, 86 (Saluda R., Ocmulgee R., Clinch R., French 

 Broad R., Rock Castle R., Alabama Basin, James R., Neuse R., 

 Santee R., Gt. Pedee R., Tennessee R., Ohio R., Illinois R., and 

 other streams); Hay, Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1880, 512 (Ca- 

 tawba Creek, Miss.); Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, 1880, ed. iii, 304; 

 Hay, Bulletin U. S. Fish Commission, 1882 (Big Black R., Miss.); 

 Jordan, Rept. Fishes Ohio, 1882, 863 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis 

 Fishes N. A., 1882, 221 ; Bean, Catalogue Fishes exhibited Inter- 

 national Exhibition, London, 1883. 



Leucosomus corporalis Giinther, Catalogue Fishes British Museum, 

 1868, 269 (Susquehanna R., Tioga Co., N. Y.; Lake Erie). 



Habitat. — Dakota to Western Massachusetts, South to Georgia 

 and Indian Territory, especially abundant in the Mississippi 

 Valley. It is found especially in small brooks in the grass and 

 weeds. 



The specimens before us are from near Bloomington, Indiana ; 

 Clifty Creek, Ind.; French Broad River, Tenn.; Rock Castle 

 River, Ky.; Rolling Fork, Ky.; Wolf Creek, Ky. We adopt for 

 this species the specific name atromaculatus, instead of corporalis, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 11 



by which it has been usually known, because, in our judgment, 

 the original Cyprinus corporalis of Mitchill is Semotilus bul- 

 laris, as was formerly stated by Dr. Abbott, while the present 

 species is evidently Mitchill's Cyprinus atromaculatus. 



The following is Mitchill's account of Cyprinus corporalis : — 

 " Cyprinus corporalis. This fish is called by the Dutch, Corpo- 

 ralen, or corporal, and inhabits the Hudson in the neighborhood 

 of Albany, the Wallkill through its whole extent, and the western 

 streams and lakes from Wood Creek to the Oneida Lake, and so 

 on. 



" The length of a middle-sized individual is about thirteen 

 inches, and the girth five ; though he frequently grows larger. 



" The head is smooth, roundish, thick, and without scales. The 

 body is thickly covered with scales ; on the back, more especially 

 between the head and the dorsal fin, the hue is dusky ; on the 

 belly it is uniformly white, and on the sides the forepart of each 

 scale is covered with a blackish film or pigment. 



" Mouth toothless, and of a moderate gape ; tongue distinct, 

 but not free ; gill-covers smooth. 



" The tail is forked ; the lateral line bends downward, and ends 

 in the middle of the tail. 



" The dorsal fin is near the middle of the back, and consists of 

 seven rays ; the caudal fin is composed of nineteen rays or there- 

 about. 



" The anal has seven, the ventral seven, the pectorals have 

 thirteen, the branchiostegous membrane has three rays, the dorsal 

 and caudal fins are tipped with a blackish tinge. 



" Takes the hook, if baited with dough, when let down through 

 holes in the ice, at midwinter, in the Hudson at Albany ; flesh 

 eatable, but rather soft and coarse." 



2. Semotilus thoreauianus. 



Semotilus thoreauianus Jordan, Bulletin U. S. National, Museum, x, 

 63, 1877 (Flint River) ; Jordan, Bulletin U. S. National Museum, 

 1878, xii, 43 (Flint River) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis Fishes N. A., 

 1882, 221 (Flint River). 



The specimens of this species in the Indiana University 

 Museum were taken by Professors Gilbert and Swain, near 

 Tuscaloosa, Alabama. 



The original types were from the Flint River ; no others have 

 been reported. 




18 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



This species is very close to S. atromaculatus, differing chiefly 

 in the size of the scales. 



3. Semotilus bullaris. Fall-fisb, Roach, Dace. 



Cyprians lullaris Rafinesque, American Monthly Magazine, 1817, 120 



(Hudson R). 

 Semotilus bullaris Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sciences, vol. i, No. iv, 



1877, 108 (Connecticut R., Delaware R., Susquehanna R.); Jordan, 



Manual Vertebrates, 1878, 304 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis Fishes, 



N. A., 1882, 222. 

 Cyprinus corporalis Mitchill, American Monthly Magazine, i : , 1817, 



289 (Hudson R.). 

 Leuciscus corporalis De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 213 (copied). 

 Semotilus corporalis Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phil., 1861, 152, 



154 (Trenton). 

 Leuciscus argenteus Storer, Rept. Fishes Mas6., 1839, 90 (Worcester 



County). 

 Leucosomus argenteus Heckel, "Russegger's Reise, 1841." 

 Semotilus argenteus Putnam, Bulletin Museum Comparative Zoology, 



1863, 8 (synonymy only); Jordan, Manual Vertebrates, 1876, 278. 

 Leuciscus pulchellus Storer, Rept. Fishes Mass., 1889, 91 (Walpole, 



Mass.); De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 208; Cuvier & Valen- 

 ciennes, Hist. Nat. Poissons, xvii, 320, 1844. 

 Leucosomus pulchellus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1856, 189. 

 Cheilonemus pulchellus Storer, History Fishes Mass., 1867, 286. 

 Leucosomus pulchellus Giinther, Catalogue Fishes British Museum, 



1868, vii, 268 (Montreal; Rangely Lake, Me.: Delaware River). 

 Leucosomus chrysoleucus Heckel, "Russegger's Reise, 1841 " (not Cypr. 



chrysoleucus Mitchill). 

 Leucosomus nitidus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 209 (Lake 



Champlain). 

 Hybognathus nitidus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1856, 210 



(Lake Champlain). 

 Leuciscus chrysopterus De Kay, N. Y. Fauna, Fishes, 1842, 211 (New 



York Bay). 

 Leucosomus rhotheus Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Phil., 1861, 523 (Sus- 

 quehanna River). 

 Semotilus rhotheus Cope, Synopsis Cyprinidse Penn., I860, 362 ; Jordan, 



Manual Vertebrates, 1876, 278. 

 Leucosomus cataractus (Baird MSS.), Cope, Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phil., 1861, 523 (Susquehanna River). 

 Squalius hyalope Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil,, 1864, 280 (Cone- 



stoga River). 



Habitat. — Southern Canada and Eastern United States, as far 

 south as Chesapeake Bay, 



The specimens examined by us are from Massachusetts. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 19 



January 20. 

 Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Thirty-two persons present. 



The death of Prof. Wm. Wagner, a member, was announced. 



A paper entitled " Description of a new Colias from the Rocky 

 Mountains, and of an example of Pohmelianism in Samia 

 Cecropia," by Hermann Strecker, was presented for publication. 



A New Locality for Beegerite. — Prof. George A. Koenig placed 

 on record the determination of Beegerite, from the " Old Lout," 

 San Juan County, Colorado. This species was described in 1 881 by 

 the speaker as 6PbS,Bi 2 S 3 , from Park Count}' Colorado. It crys- 

 tallizes in isometric cubo-octohedrons, with orthorhombic habitus. 

 Only one specimen was then known to be in existence. Since, Dr. 

 F. Genth has examined a specimen, massive, from Summit County, 

 Colorado, which is Beegerite, in which 15 per cent, of lead is 

 replaced by as much silver. Some months ago the speaker 

 received among other bismuth minerals from the Old Lout Mine, 

 Colorado, a small specimen of a fine granular, lead-gra} 1 " mineral, 

 mixed with chalcopyrite, pyrite, barite,and quartz. After a pre- 

 liminary examination, revealing the peculiar composition of the 

 substance, about 1*2 gram, were selected with great care, but it 

 was not possible to exclude all pj^rite and chalcopyrite. 



Of this the analysis gave : 



95-72 



If copper, iron, and the corresponding amount of sulphur are 

 eliminated as chalcopyrite and pyrite, the ratio between. (PbiAg 2 ) 

 and Bi is as 5'74 : 2, which, in connection with the loss of 4 per 

 cent, in the analysis, is near enough to the ratio : 6 : 2 to admit 

 of no doubt that this mineral is Beegerite, now known from three 

 localities in Colorado. 



January 27. 

 Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



The deaths of Thomas Clyde, a member, and of Friedrich Ritter 

 v. Stein, a correspondent, were announced. 



The following minute was adopted : 



The Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia learns with 

 profound regret of the death of Prof. Wm. Wagner, one of its 

 earliest members, whose generous encouragement of scientific 

 pursuits has done much to foster a study of the natural sciences 

 in this country. 



Observations on Tenacity of Life, and Regeneration of Excised 

 Parts in Lumbricus terrestris. — Miss Adele M. Fielde remarked 

 that the observations recorded before the meeting held Jan. 6, 

 were made in the laboratory of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia. The temperature had been nearly constant at 

 about 60°, and varied only from 55° to 65°. The observations 

 began Nov. 29, 1884. No worm lived more than a few hours when 

 exposed to the air. Worms kept in water, without food, the 

 water changed daily, lived from eleven to fourteen days. It 

 made no apparent difference in the duration of life, whether the 

 worms were kept in darkness or in light. 



Eight portions of worms, consisting of from twentj' to thirt3 r 

 segments, taken from the posterior end, had lived in earth during 

 the forty days of observation, and though plump, healthful, and 

 with blood of its usual redness, showed no signs of growth at 

 either end. Between the segments, however, new half-segments 

 had been inserted, after a method which ladies in sewing call a 

 gusset. Some of these worms had five such insertions, w r hile no 

 similar half-segments were observed in many worms that were 

 examined, in order to ascertain whether such half-segments 

 existed in whole and healthy worms. These new half-segments 

 appeared at irregular distances apart, between the old seg- 

 ments, on the sides of the portions of worms, and appeared to be 

 a manner of growth not heretofore observed in earthworms 

 regenerating exsected parts. 



Nine worms from which the five anterior segments were excised 

 Nov. 29, had been kept in moist earth, with which comminuted 

 leaves of oak and maple were mingled. The brain of the earth- 

 worm lies in the third segment, and the first suboesophageal 

 ganglion in the fourth segment, so that the brain and oesophageal 

 collar were removed by the excision. All these worms were 

 living, and a part of them had wholly regenerated the excised 

 segments. 



Ten worms, which at the same date lost five anterior and from 

 twenty to thirty posterior segments, were all alive and were 

 regenerating the excised portions. 



Eight worms, which at the same date lost their posterior seg- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



ments to within ten behind the clitellum, were all living and had 

 regenerated some portion of the excised part. 



The manner of regeneration of the excised anterior five seg- 

 ments had been : — 



1. A union of the outer coat of the body with the lining of the 

 alimentary canal, roughly healing the wound. 



2. A prolongation of these coats, forming a translucent white 

 tube which could be protruded from and retracted into the pro- 

 jecting border of the wound. This tube was at first but a third 

 or a half the diameter of the body. 



3. The formation of the lip or proboscis on the superior side 

 of the end of the tube. 



4. Segmentation proceeding from the anterior end of the 

 regenerated part backward, until the normal number of segments 

 were reproduced. 



5. The deposit of coloring matter in the epidermis of the new 

 segments, and their enlargement to the diameter of the old seg- 

 ments. 



Reference was made to the observations published by Dr. 

 Biilow in the "Archiv fur Naturgeschichte," 1882. 



Miss Fielde now further reports having found a completely 

 regenerated brain, oesophageal collar, and suboesophageal ganglion, 

 all of normal size and in normal site, in earthworms, which had 

 fifty-eight da} r s previous been decapitated at the fifth segment. 

 The worms had been kept in earth, at a temperature of about 60°. 



The precautions taken to ensure accuracy in these observations 

 had been, first, a thorough examination of all the earth into 

 wbich the decapitated worms were put, making it certain that the 

 earth contained no other worms than the decapitated ones; 

 secondly, care that nothing containing earthworms was at any 

 time added to the earth in which the decapitated worms were 

 kept; thirdl}', repeated examinations, at intervals of less than a 

 week, of all the earth holding the decapitated worms, and the 

 careful removal of minute worms bred therein ; fourthly, frequent 

 counting of the decapitated worms, with examination under a 

 lens, the evident wound constantly showing that the worms under 

 observation were the individuals decapitated. The paler color of 

 the new portions also distinguished these worms from others. 



Forty days after decapitation, the excised segments had been 

 regenerated, so' as to present an external appearance of complete- 

 ness, but no brain was visible in dissection. Forty-five days after 

 decapitation the blood-vessels were seen ramifying on the com- 

 pletely regenerated pharynx in a normal manner, but no brain 

 was found. In one of the worms dissected on the fifty -eighth 

 day after decapitation, the suboesophageal ganglion and the 

 oesophageal collar were found to be complete and of the normal 

 size, but the brain lobes were of but half the normal size, and 

 were separated by an interspace of the width of one of the lobes. 

 The blood-vessels united normally on the median line between 




22 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



the lobes. Another worm decapitated at the same date, though 

 of apparently weaker vitality, had regenerated all the excised 

 portions, and showed a completely formed brain, with lobes of 

 the normal size in contact. 



Messrs. Burnett Landreth and J. Addison Campbell, and Mrs. 

 Cornelius Stevenson, were elected members. 



February 3. 

 Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



February 10. 



Rev. H. C. McCook, D.D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-two persons present. 



The Internal Cambium Ring in Gehemium sempervirens. — 

 Dr. J. T. Rothrock, at the meeting of the Botanical Section held 

 February 9, called attention to the internal cambium ring in the 

 stem of Gehemium sempervirens. It might well be designated 

 as the inner cambium. His attention was attracted by the fact 

 that in a stem of three-eighths of an inch diameter, the pith was 

 actually less in diameter than in a twig of a quarter the size of the 

 stem. Microscopic examination showed that in the larger stem 

 there were ordinarily four or more points, at which a well-defined 

 swelling curved inward from the circumference of what should 

 have been the pith-cavit}'. These swellings resolved themselves 

 when closely examined into : — 



1. Toward the centre an imperfectly defined membrane, resemb- 

 ling cuticle, which was not always present. 



2. One or more rows of large cells like the parenchyma we find 

 under the epidermal layer. 



3. Several poorly defined layers of smaller cells, such as often 

 mark the limits of growth in bark. 



4. The frequent presence of bast fibres or of sclerenchyma 

 cells. 



5. An evident layer of thin-walled, square cells, closely resemb- 

 ling, though somewhat smaller than those of the external cambium. 

 They showed signs of division, which indicated that they were 

 still a living tissue. 



These facts explained at once why the pith was constantly 

 being encroached upon until it at length almost disappeared. 

 The medullary rays dipped down through, and widened out, in 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



this inner cambium, inwardly, just as they did outwardly, in the 

 usual form of cambium layer. He also remarked that bast fibres 

 had long been known to exist in the pith of Tecoma radicans, 

 and in this case something like an inner cambium would be found, 

 though it is more obscure. Sambucus Canadensis also exhibited in 

 the very large stems a smaller pith than in those of moderate size. 

 In this there was nothing comparable to the inner cambium. He 

 also remarked that for the past two winters his attention had 

 been called to the presence of considerable quantities of chloro- 

 phyll in the pith of Lycium vulgare. This was not confined to 

 the smallest stems, but was found also in those of over a quarter 

 of an inch- in diameter, and where of course a considerable belt 

 of hard wood was found between the pith and the outer 

 zone, where chlorophyll is expected. It was also observed in 

 Lycium that the chloroph3'll was not in the form of bodies but 

 diffused in character, as it is said to be in some infusorians. In 

 Lycium the cells of the pith showed, in winter, abundance of 

 protoplasm which had the nucleus on one side and very striking 

 bands extending thence across the cell to the further side. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW COLIAS FROM THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS, AND 

 OF AN EXAMPLE OF POLYMELIANISM IN SAMIA CECROPIA. 



BY HERMANN STRECKER. 



Colias elis. 



9 expands 1| inches ; with the exception of the primaries being 

 slightly more pointed apically , of the same shape as Hecla, of which 

 species it may probably be a form, as it resembles it closely in 

 many particulars. 



Head, collar and antennae dark pink or rosy; body black with 

 greenish hairs. 



Upper surface. Primaries bright orange, with blackish exterior 

 margin of moderate width until towards the costa where it widens 

 considerably ; this margin encloses a row of seven ovate lemon- 

 yellow spots or dashes which are rounded interiorly and some- 

 what pointed exteriorly ; the two nearest the costa are much the 

 smallest, the others are nearly uniform in size, though var}ing a 

 trifle from each other in shape. A black discal spot, small and 

 somewhat linear in one example, and nearly round and of fair 

 size in another. Costa and fringe deep pink. Secondaries are 

 orange, somewhat obscured with black atoms, a submarginal row 

 of yellow spots, not quite as conspicuous as those of primaries, 

 exterior to these at the apex and the apical half of costal and 

 exterior edge, the wing is blackish ; a good-sized deep orange or 

 red lead-colored discal spot, round in one example and in another 

 somewhat oblong, or rather the shape produced by a smaller round 

 spot being joined and partly merged into a larger one ; fringe 

 same color as on primaries. 



Under surface. Primaries orange on disk, with greenish 

 exterior border of same width as the blackish border of upper 

 surface ; also greenish along the costa ; edge of costa and fringe 

 deep pink. A black discal spot with pale centre. Secondaries 

 green, the inner two-thirds darker, leaving an exterior border 

 of the same color but a shade paler. Costa and fringe as in 

 primaries ; discal spot silvery white, ringed with deep pink. 



Albinous 9 form. Upper surface white of greenish yellow tinge, 

 the disk of primaries, especiall}' towards the inner margin faintly 

 suffused with a very pale ochraceous tint. On one example the 

 blackish border and the discal spots are about the same as in the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 25 



orange form, on another the spots enclosed by the border of 

 primaries are reduced to mere streaks and on the secondaries there 

 are no traces of the border at all. In all examples of both forms 

 there is a powdering of dark scales on the base of wings and along 

 the inner margin of secondaries interior to the abdominal fold. 

 Under surface as in the orange form, except that the orange of 

 superiors is replaced by yellowish white, and the green of all 

 wings is somewhat paler. 



Taken by Capt. Gamble Geddes at an elevation of 10,000 feet, 

 on the summit of " Kicking Horse Pass," in the Rock}- Moun- 

 tains, between Alberta Territory and British Columbia, at the 

 boundary between the United States and the British possessions, 

 about 300 miles north of Montana. 



It is an act of temerity to describe a Colias as new under any 

 circumstances in these da} r s, and doubly so to describe it from 

 examples of the female sex alone, yet I have no apprehension 

 that the above insect will not stand as a valid species. 



Capt Geddes took about fifteen examples, all females, nine of 

 the orange form, and about six of the white; but nothing that 

 could possibly be considered as the male. The other examples of 

 Colias captured in the same locality were lemon-colored males 

 and females probably of one species, and allied to Pelidne, but 

 bearing no kinship to the above. The most remarkable and dis- 

 tinctive feature of this G. elis is the white female ; as the species, 

 I am positive, will be found, whenever the male is discovered, to 

 belong to a group in which albinous females are unknown, its 

 congeners being Hecla, Hela Standingeri and Eogene, species in 

 which no instance of the pale female has yet been known to 

 occur ; all of which are found only at great altitudes or at the 

 North Polar Regions and are in the male distinguished from the 

 other red or orange species by the absence of the mealy kidney- or 

 oval-shaped spot on the upper surface of the costa of secondaries 

 near the body. 



It is curious, in regard to these albinous females of the Coliades, 

 that in one group thej- should occur in one species only, whilst 

 in another there should be but one species, C. Meadii, found also 

 at great elevation, in which they do not occur ; and in yet another 

 species, G. Vaidierii, of the same group with the last mentioned 

 Meadii, found in Chili, the female is always white, such a thing 

 as a red one being Entirely unknown. 

 3 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



An Example of SamiaCecropia having a Fifth Aborted Wing. — 

 T have lately received from Mr. Ph. Laurent, of Philadelphia, 

 an example of Samia Cecropia, bred by him from a cocoon, having 

 an aborted, or rather the portion of a third primary. It is a male 

 of the ordinary size, expanding about 5| inches, and is one of 

 those smoky varieties in which the red portion of the transverse 

 bands on wings is very much narrowed. The right primary and 

 both secondaries are normal in shape and marking. The left 

 primary is in length from base to apex exactly the same as is the 

 right ; but in width from inner angle across to the costa, it is -j 3 ff 

 inch less ; the markings are the same, allowing for a little con- 

 densing owing to the difference in the width. The venation is 

 normal in all wings ; the left primary is also somewhat narrower 

 at the base where it joins the body ; the inner margin is in exact 

 line with that of its fellow, thus causing the wing at costa, where 

 it joins the thorax, to be further in from the collar and head than 

 its opposite. 



The third primary, or rather portion of a primary, emerges 

 from the side of the collar, and consists mainty of the costal and 

 subcostal nervures, a small part of the median nervure, and a 

 strip of wing about a quarter of an inch wide ; but the latter was 

 much curled and twisted in drying, and does not show this width 

 fully. Its length is about two-thirds that of the normal wing 

 with which it runs parallel, but it is in no way visibly connected 

 therewith. 



This form of monstrosity is apparently of exceedingly great 

 rarity. I have heard of only three other instances — those 

 recorded by Prof. Westwood in the Trans. Ent. Soc. Lond., 

 1879, pp. 220, 221, in which three diurnals are described, each 

 possessing a third aborted right-hand secondary; In one of 

 them, an example of Gonepteryx Bhamni, the normal right wing 

 is much less than the left, the same with the second example, a 

 Vanessa Urticse, leading to the conclusion in those cases as with 

 the Cecropia, that the abnormal wing was produced at the expense 

 of the normal. 



In the two cases just cited, the extra wing is joined at the base 

 of the costa to the proper wing; in the third case mentioned by 

 Prof. Westwood, it is apparent^ a streak or strip, as it were, 

 on the inferior surface of right secondary, distinguished from the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 



rest of the wing, or the part thereof, hy the difference in color 

 and marking alone. 



It will be noticed that in the case of the three diurnals, that 

 the extra wing is always a right secondary, whilst in the Cecropia 

 it is a left primary. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



February IT. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



February 24. 

 Mr. Jacob Binder in the chair. 

 Twenty -one persons present. 



A New Fresh-water Sponge from Nova Scotia. — Mr. E. Potts 

 described a form recently identified by him as follows : — 



Hetekomkykma Pictouensis, n. sp. 



Sponge light green, even when dry, massive, encrusting ; texture 

 very compact ; spicules non-fasciculated, persistent ; surface 

 mostly smooth. 



Gemmules very scarce, spherical, crust thick. 



Skeleton spicules cylindrical, short, robust, rounded or abruptly 

 terminated ; entirely spined, spines conical at the centre of the 

 spicule, elsewhere generally curving forward, or towards each 

 extremity. Rounded terminations of spicules covered with short 

 spines, though frequentlj' a single large spine or acute termination 

 is seen at one or both extremities. 



Dermal spicules absent or undiscovered. 



Birotulatesof the longer class surrounding the gemmules, rather 

 numerous, one-half longer than the others ; shafts conspicuously 

 fusiform or largest at the centre, where are frequently found one 

 or more long spines. Their rotules consist of three to six irregu- 

 larly placed rays, recurved at the extremities. 



Birotulates of the shorter class abundant and compactly placed 

 around the gemmule; shafts mostly smooth, though sometimes 

 bearing a single spine ; irregularly cylindrical, but rapidly widen- 

 ing to support the rotules, which are large, umbonate, nearly flat, 

 and fiiu'ly lacinulate at their margins ; occasionally bearing 

 spines. 



Measurements. — Skeleton spicules 0-0075 inch long, by - 00075 

 inch thick; length of long birotulates 0"0021 inch; of short biro- 

 tulates 00012 inch ; diameter of disc of latter 0*0009 inch. 



Habitat. — On submerged wood, etc. 



Locality — Collected only by or for Mr. A. H. McKay, B. A., 

 B. S., of i'lctou, Nova Scotia, from several lakes upon the water- 

 shed of that region. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



29 



This beautiful and interesting sponge was first discovered by Mr. 



McKay, during the summer 

 of 1884. At that time its 

 novelty, as indicated by its 

 unusually robust, entirely 

 spined skeleton spicules was 

 easily recognized, but the 

 absence of gemmules at that 

 season precluded the deter- 

 mination of its generic rela- 

 tions, and it has continued 

 unnamed. During the last 

 week of December, however, 

 a further search was re- 

 warded by the finding of 

 other "specimens upon 

 sticks pulled up through a 

 break made in the ice," and 

 amongst these a few, and 

 but a few gemmulae have 

 now been discovered. 

 These suffice to place it clearly within the genus Heteromerjenia, 

 near H. Ryderii, while the peculiarities of its birotulates distin- 

 guish it from that or any other species, 



Mr. Potts called attention to its green and apparently living 

 and growing condition, during midwinter, in that northern lati- 

 tude, as indicating that like Spongilla aspinosa, of the New 

 Jersey swamps, this species also is an "evergreen," continuing its 

 life in the normal state throughout the year, and for this reason 

 not needing to form " protected gemmules " in such abundance 

 as do other species. 



At the suggestion of Mr. McKay, to whose enthusiastic search 

 we owe its discovery, the local specific Pictouensis has gladly 

 been given to this species. 



The following were elected members : — 



Charles Harrod Vinton, M. D., Henry Leffmann, M.D., S. Frank 

 Aaron and Edw. Lona;streth. 



A. A. A. Skeleton spicules ; B. Long birotulate 

 C. C. Short do. Magnified 250 diameters. 



March 3. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven members present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 "A Review of the American Genera and Species of Batrachidoe," 

 by Seth E. Meek and Edw. A. Hall. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



"A Review of the Species of the Genus Pimephales," by Willis 

 S. Blatchley. 



The deaths of Mrs. S. R. Barton, a member, and of John Gwynn 

 Jeffries, a correspondent, were announced. 



Spicate Inflorescence in Cypripedium insigne. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan referred to a specimen on the table of Cypripedium 

 insigne, an orchid from the cooler parts of the East Indies, which 

 had a spike with two flowers and other undeveloped buds, the 

 normal character being a one-flowered scape. These departures 

 from the normal form afforded valuable lessons, though frequentby 

 passed over as mere freaks of nature. A spicate inflorescence was 

 a common characteristic in allied species. From the illustration 

 before us, we might infer that the one-flowered kinds were species 

 in which the power to develop a proper spike had been arrested. 

 We might expect to see attempts at this form of inflorescence in 

 Cypripedium acaule of our own country. 



A very important lesson from these occasional departures had 

 but recently the attention given to it that it properly deserved, 

 and that was that whenever any particular plant departed from 

 its normal form, other characters came into existence, which, in 

 a separate plant would, and often did, obtain for the new depar- 

 ture the rank of a species. In this instance, the second flower on 

 the spike was different from the lower and normal one in the 

 upper segment of the perianth (sepals) having a regular outline. 

 In the normal form it was so crumpled as to present a trilobed 

 appearance. In the normal form the labellum was so elongated 

 as to be three times the length of the column. In the upper 

 flower the labellum was but double the length, giving it a some- 

 what globular appearance. There were other variations that 

 formed a combination of characters quite sufficient to mark a 

 species if they were constantly produced in a separate state. Why 

 could not this rare occurrence become a continuous one, and thus 

 a new species be formed — created, we may say — out of an older 

 one ? There can be no reason. We may call this a freak of 

 nature, but it could not have occurred without that combination 

 of circumstances which we call law. We have no warranty for 

 saying that a law which has operated to produce a departure in a 

 solitary instance like this, might not have a more permanent 

 power at some other time. Nor is there any warranty for believing 

 that a law that has operated as we see here on one plant, might 

 not operate on a hundred, or on all the plants of a district, or 

 .vcu on plants in separate districts widely separated from each 

 other. 



In a paper by himself published in the Proceedings of the Troy 

 Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of 

 Science, " On the introduction of species bj- sudden leaps, " as well 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



as elsewhere, he had given illustrations of the sudden appearance 

 of identical forms in widely separated localities. If we may gene- 

 ralize from these facts, as we seemed almost warranted in doing, 

 we need not be always looking for the links supposed to be missing, 

 which the belief in the hypothesis of development by slow modi- 

 fications compelled us to search for, nor need we be reduced to 

 the only alternative of believing that all new species sprang 

 from one parent, which formed a centre of distribution in each 

 particular case. A whole species might be called into existence 

 in the shape of hundreds of individuals or in numerous centres, 

 if only a law that we know from these instances can operate 

 suddenby and exceptionally should continue regularly to act. 

 Such a belief would tend materially to remove difficulties in the 

 way of theories of evolution, that now prevented a full accept- 

 ance thereof. 1 



If we can conceive that a suddenly introduced and yet perma- 

 nently acting force was introduced to operate on some lower 

 beings, the difficulty might be removed. It seemed to him that in 

 some palaeontological fields there are evidences of rapid evolution 

 at certain periods, and of greater permanency at others, and this 

 could only be by the introduction of a force equal to the eruer- 

 genc3 r , as in this sudden case brought to the notice of the 

 Academy above. 



It would be an interesting study to endeavor to trace the laws 

 that operated in these changes. In this study we must leave 

 behind us impressions which we have imbibed from the idea of 

 mere freaks, hybrids, a return to primitive forms, and other mere 

 guesSes with which scientific literature abounds. On the table before 

 us, he observed, are the recent Proceedings of the Ro\-al Society 

 of Tasmania, in which is an account of a remarkable change in 

 a potato, a variety bi-ought from Scotland a few years previously, 

 known as Patterson's Victoria, a variety with white flowers and 

 round white tubers, which, after a culture of a few years in the 

 new climate, produced purple flowers, flat ovate tubers, and these 

 tubers with pink eyes. The members of that society looked at it 

 as a return to the original form of some hybrid variety. We 

 here, with other facts before us, would rather regard it as the 

 effect of environment operating on some innate, and so far un- 

 known, cause of change which might lie dormant through long 

 ages till the peculiar conditions of the environment called them 

 into active life. There seemed in fact seeds for form, as well 

 as seeds for individuals, awaiting the required conditions for 

 germination and rapid growth. In the one case we were able 

 to perceive and appreciate them, except in some of the lowest 



1 Principal Dawson bas suggested that one difficulty in the way of accept- 

 ing the prevalent theories of the evolution of man, comes from the fact 

 that anthropology arToids no "missing link" in the human skull. The 

 oldest hitherto found shows as full a development as in modern man. 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



organisms. The principle that contained the germ of form was, 

 however, yet as wholly unknown as that of the supposed disease- 

 germs of the atmosphere. 



March 10. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches from the 

 Older American Rocks," by Samuel H. Scudder. 



" A Revision of the North American Melicre," by F. Lamson 

 Scribner. 



" A Review of the American Eleotridinae," by Carl H. Eigen- 

 mann and Morton "W. Fordice. 



The deaths of Samuel Powell and Geo. Whitney, members, and 

 of Benjamin Silliman, Jr., a correspondent, were announced. 



Rhinoceros and Hippotherium from Florida. — Prof. Leidy 

 directed attention to some fossil remains, recently received from 

 Dr. J. C. Neal, of Archer, Florida, and obtained by him from the 

 same deposit noticed in the Proceedings of 1884, p. 118. Dr. 

 Neal writes that he had again examined the locality in company 

 with Prof. L. C. Johnson, who reports that the deposit overlies 

 the Yicksburg limestone of Eocene age. Dr. Neal adds that the 

 deposit appears to be the portion of the border of a lagoon of 

 post-Tertiary age, and that it is now about 100 feet by 50 feet in 

 extent. He also remarks that he has anxiously looked for relics 

 of man, but thus far in vain. The fossils are mingled together in 

 the greatest confusion, are badly fractured, but not water-worn. 



The remains submitted, besides several less characteristic frag- 

 ments of a crocodile, a carnivorous animal about the size of a fox, 

 and of a lama, consist of two Avell-preserved teeth of a Rhino- 

 ceros and a Hippotherium. 



The tooth of the rhinoceros fortunately happens to be one of 

 the most characteristic of the series, and presents differences 

 sufficient^ from those of the many extinct forms of this country 

 to render it probable that it indicates another species. The 

 specimen is the crown, but slightly worn, of a last upper molar 

 of the left side. It is especially remarkable for the extent of 

 production of the intermediate folds of the chief lobes of the 

 crown, in comparison with their condition in known forms of the 

 genus. The fold of the anterior lobe is directed backward about 

 half the interval of the lobes, and extends from the base to the 

 triturating border of the crown. Its upper portion is half cylin- 

 drical ; its lower portion compressed from without inward, and 

 half elliptical in the length. It has the shape of a knife with a 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



cylindrical handle and a wider half elliptical blade. The posterior 

 fold, as long and wider than the former, curves forward and out- 

 ward in advance of the free border of the anterior fold, coming 

 into contact with the outer face of this below, but separated from 

 it by an open crevice above. The meeting folds divide the interval 

 of the lobes of the crown into an outer trilateral pit over two 

 inches in depth, and an inner nearly rectangular recess about an 

 inch and a half in depth. A well-produced basal ridge occupies 

 the forepart of the crown; a feeble one, produced behind in a 

 tubercle, the outer part of the crown ; and a broad tubercle occu- 

 pies the base of the interval of the lobes internally. The measure- 

 ments of the specimen are as follows : — 



Greatest transverse diameter at the anterior third, 56 mm. 



Greatest fore and aft diameter externally, . 63 " 



Greatest fore and aft diameter internally, . 55 " 



Greatest depth at the antero-external border, . 63 " 



The species may be distinguished by the name of Rhinoceros 

 proterus. The subgenus, whether Acerather-ium, Aphelops,- or 

 other, is of course only to be determined b}* the supply of other 

 portions of the animal. The inferior molars and bones of a 

 rhinoceros, indicated in the former communication on fossils 

 from the same deposit, most probably also pertain to this species. 

 The extinct genus Hippotherium, a three-toed ancestor of our 

 horses, was originally described from remains found in the 

 Miocene and later Tertiary deposits of Europe. Remains of the 

 same genus were first discovered in this country in the Ashley 

 River phosphate beds of South Carolina, noticed in our Proceed- 

 ings of 1853, p. 241, under the 'name of Hipparion venustum, and 

 described in Holmes' post-Pliocene fossils, 1860, 105, pi. xvi, figs. 

 32,. 33, as Hippotherium venustum. Since then a number of 

 other species have been described by the speaker and Prof. Cope 

 from remains found in various localities of this country. The 

 tooth now under inspection is an upper molar, 

 perhaps the fourth large one of the series. It 

 indicates a small species, little more than half 

 the size of the domestic horse, or of the 

 Hippotherium gracile of Europe, and exhibits 

 sufficient difference to assume that it indicates 



\A^-J- 



.,. another species from those already described. 

 ■* s The folding of the contiguous borders of the 

 Hippotherium ingenuum. interior enamel islets of the worn triturating 

 surface is less complex than in H. venustum. and the internal islet 

 is elliptical instead of circular. The species may be named 

 Hippotherium ingenuum. The measurements of the tooth are 

 as follows : — 



Length at antero-internal corner of crown, 42 mm. 



Breadth fore and aft of triturating surface, 19 " 



Breadth transversely of triturating surface, 17 " 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



NEW GENERA AND SPECIES OF FOSSIL COCKROACHES, FROM 

 THE OLDER AMERICAN ROCKS. 



BY SAMUEL H. SCUDDER. 



Since the publication of my essay on Palaeozoic cockroaches, 1 

 a considerable number of new types of Palseoblattarise have come 

 to hand, largely through the endeavors of Mr. R. D. Lacoe, to 

 whose favor I owe the opportunity of stud}-ing them, and partly 

 from my exploration of an interesting localit}' in South Park, 

 Colorado. Some of the former have since been published in a 

 revision of the species of Mylacris, 2 and the more interesting of 

 such as remain are described in this paper. 



The two new genera' of Mylacridae are closely allied to, but 

 differ considerabl} 7 from, the known genera. Of the Blattinariae, 

 the species of Oryctoblattina is the first secured from America, 

 and the Triassic genera and species are interesting, not only from 

 the deposit in which they occur, but also from their relation to 

 Carboniferous and Liassic types. 3 They will all be figured on 

 another occasion. 



PROMYLACRIS (rp6, /mXawpif), nov. gen. 



The mediastinal vein, though large and abundantly supplied 

 with veins, terminates not far beyond the middle of the wing ; 

 most of the branches fork more than once ; the scapular vein 

 runs in a nearly straight course, and terminates a short distance 

 beyond the mediastinal, playing a very insignificant part ; the 

 externomedian vein is far more important, crowding back the 

 scapular vein on the one side and the externomedian on the 

 other; the anal furrow is very deeply impressed and the anal 

 area strongly convex, its veins regular, frequent and strongly 

 curved. 

 Promylacris ovale, nov. sp. 



Represented by a single specimen and its reverse in a nodule 

 preserving well the anterior half of the body. The pronotum is 

 regularly arched, about one-fourth as high as broad, and twice as 



1 Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., iii, 23, et seq. 



2 Ibid., iii, £99, et seq. 



8 Amer. Jour. Sc. (8), xxviii, 199, et seq. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35 



broad as long. The front wings have a strongly developed 

 humeral lobe and a costal margin of considerable convexity. 

 The mediastinal branches are clustered into three groups ; the 

 scapular vein is composed of only two branches, each of which 

 forks with slight divarication ; the externomedian vein has three 

 principal branches, all of which originate far toward the base of 

 the wing ; the internomedian area is unusually small, apparently 

 not reaching so far out as the scapular area. The fragment is 20 

 mm. long and the wing 12 mm. broad, but it was probably about 

 29 mm. long. 



Carboniferous deposits of Mazon Creek, 111. Received from 

 Mr. Wm. Gurley. 



PAKOMYLACEIS (-apo s , //uWpfj), nov. gen. 

 The mediastinal vein consists of at least seven or eight prin- 

 cipal bi*anches, several of them forking close to the base, the 

 outermost extending far toward the tip of the wing, making this 

 area unusually important ; the scapular is also important, the 

 main vein running through the middle of the wing in a straight 

 course to the tip ; the externomedian branches do not separate 

 widely, and occupy on the margin of the wing only the lower 

 half of the broad apex ; the anal furrow is deeply impressed, and 

 strikes the middle of the inner margin. 



Paromylacris rotundum, nov. sp. 



The single specimen shows the larger portion of the upper 

 surface, and all the more important parts, visible from above. 

 The whole body is strongly arched, and the central portion of 

 the pronotal shield, which is twice as broad as long, is elevated 

 about 4\ r ) mm. above the margins. The front wings are obovate, 

 scarcety narrower at tip than at base, barely twice as long as 

 broad ; the humeral angle very prominent. The scapular vein 

 has four or five straight superior branches ; the externomedian 

 vein runs parallel to the scapular, and has two dichotomizing 

 branches. The length of the wing is 29 - 5 mm., and its width 

 15 mm. 



Carboniferous deposits of Mazon Creek, 111. Mr. R. D. Lacoe, 

 No. 2026. 



SPILOBLATTINA (<xz:\os, Blattina) nov. sp. 



This genus is allied to Etoblattina, but differs from it and from 

 all other genera of Blattinariae in the divergence of the scap- 




36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF L1885- 



ular and externomedian veins be3 r ond the middle of the wing, 

 and then their rapid convergence beyond a more or less conspic- 

 uous elongated spot (whence the generic name) which fills the 

 space so produced ; a similar arrangement is seen even more 

 conspicuously between the the externomedian and internomedian 

 veins, where the spot is much larger and round. All the species 

 are Triassic. 

 Spiloblattina Gardineri, nov. pp. 



A number of specimens of this were found, some of them nearly 

 perfect. The wing is long and slender, more than three times 

 longer than broad, the tip roundly produced. The mediastinal 

 vein terminates some way beyond the middle, approaching the 

 margin very gradually; the scapular runs parallel to the costal 

 margin, slightly more removed from it in the apical than in the 

 distal half, and terminates a little before the tip of the wing ; it 

 has many branches, usually compound ; the externomedian vein 

 begins to branch usually in the middle of the wing, about oppo- 

 site the stigma in the interspace between it and the scapular vein, 

 and its branches fill the apex of the wing. To form the enlarged 

 cell for the median stigma, the curve of the main externomedian 

 vein is graceful and very gradual. The anal terminates far before 

 the middle of the wing. Length of wing about 17*5 mm., width 5*5 

 mm. Named after my son who obtained the first and best speci- 

 men seen in our exploration of the beds. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 

 Spiloblattina triassica, nov. pp. 



In this species the wing appears to be more slender than in the 

 others, although the exact proportions cannot be given from the 

 imperfection of the specimens; all the branches have a more 

 longitudinal and less arcuate course, the externomedian and 

 scapular veins scarcely part from each other to give place to the 

 stigma, and the divergence of the former and the internomedian 

 veins is also less conspicuous. The wing was probably about 18 

 mm. long, and 5 mm. broad. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Spiloblattina guttata, nov. sp. 



This species differs from the others in the stoutness of the 

 wing, which is proportionally much shorter than any of the 

 others; in keeping with this peculiarity is the greater width of 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 37 



both the mediastinal and scapular areas, and the more rapid 

 descent to the margin of the termination of at least the former. 

 In other respects the species completely resembles S. Gardineri. 

 Two fragments only were obtained, which indicate a wing about 

 15 mm. long, and 7 mm. broad. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Spiloblattina marginata, nov. sp. 



This species, of which only a single specimen was found, is 

 remarkable for the paucity of its neuration, and for the fact that 

 all the veins and branches are margined with a slender dark 

 edging. The scapular vein recedes more than usually from the 

 costal margin opposite the very slight median stigma, and the 

 externomedian vein is consequently more than usually curved to 

 make place for it. The probable length of the wing was 18 mm. 

 The inner margin being lost, the width can hardly be more than 

 conjectured, but it was perhaps 7 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Oryctoblattina occidua, nor. sp. 



The veins appear to originate from the middle of the upper 

 half of the base of the wing, and have scarcely the least basal 

 arcuation. The mediastinal vein runs at but slight distance from, 

 and nearly parallel to, the costal border, in the outer half con- 

 stantly but gradually approaching it, emitting numerous oblique, 

 generally simple branches ; the vein terminates in the middle of 

 the outer half of the wing, and shows no such peculiarities at its 

 tip as characterize 0. reticulata of Europe. The scapular vein 

 is also not so peculiar as there ; it runs in near proximity and 

 parallel to the mediastinal vein, but there is the same slight bend 

 in its course at the base of the principal branch ; the mass of the 

 branches, which are fewer than in 0. reticulata, do not arise as 

 there from a vein emitted abruptly from near the base of the 

 second branch, to which they are inferior, but from the principal 

 branch itself, to which they are superior. The internomedian 

 vein terminates at about the end of the middle third of the wing, 

 and has only a few branches. The externomedian branches all' 

 terminate on the inner margin. The length of the wing is 19 

 mm., its breadth 7 mm. 



Carboniferous beds of Mazon Creek, Illinois; R. D. Lacoe, No. 

 2039. 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Petrablattina eequa, nov. *)>. 



Mediastinal. vein terminating scarcely beyond the middle of 

 the costal margin, with numerous, closely crowded, simple 

 branches; scapular vein terminating above the tip of the wing, 

 ami beyond the basal curve nearly straight, with four or five 

 singly forking branches ; branches of externomedian vein straight, 

 superior, mostly simple, parallel to the main scapular vein ; the 

 internomedian area extending to some distance beyond the 

 middle of the wing. It is a tolerably large species, the wing 

 measuring 24 mm. in length and 10 mm. in breadth. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Petrablattina Meieri, now sj>. 



Mediastinal vein terminating a long way beyond the middle of 

 the costal border, with comparatively distant, usually simple 

 branches. Scapular vein terminating just below the tip of the 

 wing and beyond the basal curve, gently arcuate throughout, 

 with branches similar to those of P. aequa, but occup3*ing a 

 larger area. In consequence, the externomedian area is of less 

 importance than in P. sequa, and it has but few branches, which 

 appear to be generally simple, and slightly declivent, though 

 superior. Unfortunately this portion of the wing in the single 

 specimen known is very obscure. The internomedian vein is 

 not preserved in its outer portion, but it evidently reached the 

 border nearer the base than the mediastinal vein, and the anal 

 furrow is strongly curved. The wing is broken at the base, but 

 its probable length was 19 mm., and its breadth 7 mm. It is 

 named after Mr. Robert A. Meier, of Garo, Col., in whose shaft 

 all these specimens were obtained, and who afforded our party 

 all possible assistance in working them. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



POROBLATTINA {ndpos, Blattina), nov. gen. 

 Allied to Petrablattina, and especially the species of that genus 

 found in the same Triassic rocks, differing from them principally 

 in the insignificant part played by the mediastinal area and the 

 corresponding importance of the scapular area. The mediastinal 

 vein extends no further out than the anal, terminating far before 

 the middle of the wing, and has consequently but a few offshoots; 

 while the mediastinal, sweeping downward, away from the costal 

 margin at the termination of the mediastinal, occupies nearly half 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39 



of the wing before curving upward again to terminate above the 

 apex. The externomedian vein is arcuate and terminates on the 

 lower margin not far from the tip, and has only three or four 

 superior longitudinal branches. The anal furrow is strongly 

 arcuate. The anal veins are nearly parallel to the inner margin, 

 but impinge upon it near the anal furrow. 



Poroblattina arcuata, nov. sp. 



The costal border is considerably convex. The scapular vein 

 is unusually arcuate and has a large number of mostly simple 

 oblique branches. The externomedian and internomedian veins, 

 on the contrary, have few and distant branches, and the former 

 is also strongly arcuate. The whole surface of the wing is broken 

 by closely crowded cross-veins, which are more transverse to the 

 whole wing than to the interspaces. A single, rather imperfect 

 specimen is known, indicating a species with a wing about 10 mm. 

 long; the width is 4 mm., and apparently the wing was well 

 rounded and much shorter in proportion to its breadth than in 

 the next species. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Poroblattina lakesii, nov. sp. 



The costal border is nearly straight and the wing elongate. 

 The scapular vein is much less arcuate than in the preceding 

 species and has a comparatively small number of distant, singly 

 or doubly forked, oblique branches. The much less oblique 

 branches of the internomedian vein are more frequent but appear 

 less crowded from their simplicit}', while those of the externo- 

 median are more distant than the latter, and equally simple. 

 There is no sign of any cross-venation. This species, like the 

 preceding, is small, the wing measuring about 12 mm. long, and 

 4*5 mm. broad. Named after Prof. Arthur Lakes of the School 

 of Mines at Golden, Colorado, the first discoverer of these 

 fossils. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN MELICJE. 

 BY F. LAMSON SCRTBNER. 



The determination of our North American species of the genus 

 Mel ica, and the notes relative to their distribution, etc., contained 

 in the present paper, are based upon the collections in the herba- 

 rium at Cambridge, the Torrey herbarium, and the herbarium of 

 the Department of Agriculture at Washington, all of which have 

 been kindly loaned me for this purpose, by those having them in 

 charge. I have also consulted the herbarium of the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, as well as several valuable 

 private collections. 



The following is a synopsis or analytical key of the species, as 

 they appear to me, by which it is hoped they may be readily 

 identified without the aid of more extended descriptions. 



I 1. GLYCERINE. 



Spikelets 1-5 flowered, flowering glumes herbaeeo-coriaceous, with a narrow 

 scarious margin above, strongly 7-nerced. 



Culms not bulbiferous, panicle man}' -flowered, spikelets H-2^ lin. 



long, with 1, or sometimes 2 perfect flowers. 



Empty glumes shorter than the spikelet, rudimentary floret 



large, and nearly sessile. M. imperfecta. 1. 



Empty glumes as long as the floret, the second one exceeding 



it, rudimentary floret small, long stipitate. 



M. Torreyana. 2. 

 Culms bulbiferous, panicle simple, few-flowered with short diver- 

 gent branches, spikelets 4-7 lin. long, with 3-5 perfect florets, 

 flowering glumes 2-3 lin. long, joints of the thickened rhachilla 

 about 1 lin. long. M.fugax. 3. 



I 2. EUMELICA. 



Spikelets 4-8 lin. long, with 2-S perfect florets, flowering glume apparently 

 many-nerved below {at least when dry), with a broadscarious margin above. 



Culms not bulbiferous. 



Empty glumes ver}' unequal and decidedly shorter than the 

 3-5 flowered spikelets. 

 Panicle diffusely branched, many-flowered, the flexuose ped- 

 icels smooth or slightly pubescent. .1/. diffusa. 4. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



Panicle narrow, the slender branches erect, or the lower 



slightly divergent, pedicels flexuose or recurved, densely 



pubescent. M. Porteri. 5. 



Empty glumes unequal, the second nearly or quite as long (6-8 



lin.) as the 4-6-flowered spikelets. 



Panicle with 6-15 large, pendulous spikelets forming a simple 



secund raceme. M. stricta. 6. 



Panicle strict, densely many-flowered above, interrupted 



below, branches and short, straight pedicels erect. 



M. frutescens. 1 7. 



Empty glumes subequal, nearly as long (4-5 lin.) as the 



2-flowered spikelets. 



Panicle few-flowered, sparingly branched below, often reduced 



to a simple raceme. M. mutica. 8. 



Culms bulbous at base (excepting in occasional samples of No. 10). 



The second glume decidedly shorter than the third. 



Panicle nodding, loosely few-flowered, the slender branches 

 erect spreading, flowering glume very broadly acuminate, 

 obtuse or notched at the tip, terminal floret acute. 



M. spectabile. 9. 

 The second glume as long as the third. 



Panicle erect, densely many-flowered, branched below, spicate 

 above, spikelets about 4 lin. long, with about 3 perfect 

 florets the rudimentary one obtuse. M. Calif ornica. 10. 



Panicle erect, branches appressed, few-flowered, spikelets 5-6 



lin. long, with 5-8 perfect flowers, terminal floret acute. 



M. bulbosa. 11. 

 I 3. BROMELICA. 



Spikelets of 3S perfect florets, the lower exceeding the empty glumes ; lotcer 

 palet prominently 7-nerved, apiculate or distinctly awned by the excurrent 

 midnerve at the notched or bifid or narrowly truncate or rarely long 

 attenuated tip (Thurber). 



Culms bulbiferous, panicle with spreading, very unequal few- 

 flowered rays, the upper rays and spikelets mostly solitary. 

 Flowering glumes smooth or minutely scabrous, notched at the 

 acute tip, the midnerve ending as a short point or awn 

 between the teeth. 31. bromoides. 12. 



1 Melica frutescens approaches, by intermediate forms, very closely to M. 



California, but the membraneous character of its glumes, the unusual 



length of the outer ones, and the comparatively short palea (this being 



scarcely half as long as its glume) suggest a nearer relationship with M.stricta. 



4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Flowering glumes ciliate on the margin and hirsute, especially 

 below, with scattered hairs, long attenuated into a narrow 

 subulate point, but not awned. M. subulata. 13. 



Culms not bulbous at the base, panicle contracted. 



Flowering glume about 4 lin. long, ciliate on the margin below 

 with long shining hairs, apex truncate or obtusely lobed, 

 awn when present not exceeding 3 lin. in length. 



M. Harfordii. 14. 

 Flowering glume 5-6 lin. long, strongly scabrous, with a few 

 stiff marginal hairs near the base, awn 4-7 lin. long. 



M. aristata. 15. 



1. Melica imperfecta, Trin. in Mem. Acad. St. Petersb., 1840, 59, and Icon. Gram., 

 t. 356; Bolander, Proc. Calif. Acad., 1870, iv, 101 ; Thurber in S. Wats. Bot. 

 Calif., ii, 303. M. colpodioidcs, Nee6. in Tayl. Mag. Nat. Hist, 1, 282; M. 

 panicoides and M. poxoidcs, Nutt. in PI. Gambl., 188. 



Hab. — California : Hills, San Bernardino Valley, Parish Bros., No. 885, 

 April, 1881 ; San. Bernardino Co., Parry and Lemmon, No. 40;?, 18T6 ; G. R. 

 Vasey, No. 664, 1880 ; Southern California, Parry and Lemmon, No. 404 ; 

 Santa Maria, Sta. Barbara Co., Lorenzo Jared, 1881 ; Santa Barbara, Mrs. 

 E. Cooper, 1879 ; "Abundant in dry rock places," Mrs. R. F. Bingham, 1882; 

 Fall Brook, M. E. Jones, No. 3092, March, 1882 (spikelets 2£ lin. long); 

 Guadaloupe Island, off Lower Calif., E. Palmer, No. 98, 1875; LosAngelos, 

 Bolander, Kellogg & Co. (a form with unusually broad and obtuse outer 

 glumes). Two-flowered forms, the M. poceoides of Nuttall, come from San 

 Francisco, Bolander, No. 6076, in part ; Hills, San Diego, C. G. Pringle, 

 1882 ; Miss Scott, 1880 ; Dr. Cleveland, 1882. 



Var. refracta, Thurber in S. Wats. Bot. Calif., ii, 303. 

 Hab. — Near San Bernardino, Calif. J. G. Lemmon, No. 1471, 1879. 



Var. flexuosa, Bolander, Proc. Calif. Acad., iv, 101; Thurber, 1. c, 303. 



On the road from Mariposa to Clarks, Bolander ; Santa Inez Mission, 

 Brewer, No. 569 (teste Thurber). 



I do not recognize this variety among the specimens I have in 

 hand. 



Var. minor. 



Characterized by its comparatively low and densely tufted 

 habit, short and chiefly radical leaves, compressed or angular 

 culms, slender few-flowered panicle, the short branches divergent 

 or even reflexed ; the spikelets are generally smaller than in the 

 species and the outer glumes usually shorter and more obtuse. 



Hab. — San Bernardino Mts., Parish Bro., No. 856, May, 1882. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 43 



2. Melica Torreyana. M. imperfecta, var. sesquifora, Torrey in Herb. 



The specimens thus ticketed by Dr. Torrey were collected in 

 California, by Dr. Bigelow, in 1853-4. 



This proposed new species is distinguished from M. imperfecta, 

 with which it is very closely allied, by its more membraneous, 

 longer and more acute glumes — the second one equaling or 

 exceeding the floret — by the hairs on the back of the flowering 

 glume above the middle and by the long-pedicelled rudimentary 

 floret, characters which seem to me to be of specific value. 



Bigelow's specimens are immature, but the typical form is well 

 represented by the specimens distributed by Bolander, Kellogg 

 & Co. (1872). In these specimens the culms are 3 ft. high or 

 more, leaves numerous, flat, 2-3 lin. wide, 6-8 in. long; ligule 3-4 

 lin. long, lacerated ; panicle 6-10 in. long, diffuse, the slender 

 flexuose branches 2-4 in. long and few-flowered at the ends, naked 

 below. The characters of the spikelets are well shown in fig. 

 3, PL I. 



Forms with two-flowered spikelets occur, but the second floret 

 and rudiment are long-pedicelled, while in similar two-flowered 

 forms of M. imperfecta, these are both nearly sessile. 



No. 13 Bolander. and No. 60*76 Bolander in part belong to 

 this species. No. 586, collected by Dr. Torrey at New Almaden, 

 California, in 1865, is a narrow-panicled form of M. Torreyana, 

 closely resembling 31. imperfecta, but at once recognized by the 

 characters above noted. 



3. Melica fugax, 1 Bolander, Proc. Calif. Acad., iv, 104: Thurber in S. Wats. Bot. 

 Calif., ii, 304. M. Oeyeri, Thurber, Bot. Wilkes' Exped., 492, not Munro. 



Hab. — California : J. G. Leinmon, 1875 ; Sierra Valley, J. G. L., 1873 

 and 1874 ; Dormer Lake, Bolander, Kellogg & Co., 1872 ; Plumas Co., Mrs. 

 Austin, 1877. Oregon : Dry mountain sides, Union Co., W. C. Cusiek, No. 

 1032, June, 1882. Washington Territory : Open pine woods, Falcon Valley, 

 W. N. Suksdorf, Nos. 61 and 16, 1883. 



In the spikelets of Melica fugax, the rhachilla is smooth, 

 thickened and of a peculiar spongy texture, quite unlike that of 

 any other North American species. 



1 The Melica, from Mt. Shasta, referred to in my List of Pringle's 

 Grasses (see Torr. Bull., x, p. 31, No. 72), is not M. fugax, nor am I able 

 to identify it with any of the known species, unless it be an unusual form 

 of At. bulbosa, Geyer. The specimens in hand are too meagre for more 

 definite conclusions. 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



4. Melica diffusa, Pursh Flor., i, 77 ; Kunth En. PL i, 377 ; Stendel Gram., 291 : M. 

 altistima, Walt, Flor. Carol., 78. M. glabra, Michx., i, 62 (in part). M. mutica, 

 var. diffusa, Gray in Man., 626. M. scahra, Nutt., Fl. Ark., 148. 



Var. nitens. — .1/. nitcns, Nutt. in Herb. Phila. Acad. M. mutica, Torr. in Marcy's 

 Rept. 



Differs from the species in its more leafy culms, narrower 

 leaves, more densely flowered panicle, and in its much broader 

 and more unequal outer glumes, the second one being nearly as 

 long as the spikelet. 



Distribution. — Pennsylvania, Illinois, southward and westward to 

 Texas. The variety = No. 3464 a, Curtiss' Distribution N. Am. Plants, 

 coll. in Texas by J. Reverchon ; also 389, Lindheimer, and 2062, C. Wright. 

 Nos. 729, Lindheimer (1847), and 769, C. Wright (1849), belong to the 

 species. 



b. Melica Porteri, Scribner in Rusby's Arizona plants, No. 881^, 188:?, and in 

 Pringle's distribution of 1884. M. mutica, var. parviflora, T. C. Porter in 

 Porter <fc Coulter's Fl. of Colorado, 149 ; M. stricta, Brandegee, Fl. Southwestern 

 Colorado, p. 244. 

 Hab. — Colorado: Glen Eyrie, near Colorado City, T. C. Porter, July, 

 1872, and August, 1873. "This Melica, which I have from several stations 

 in Colorado, I am now inclined to think a good species, as you do." T. C. 

 P. inlitt., December, 1882; Chiann Canon, M. E. Jones, No. 1550, June, 

 1879 ; Canon of the Rio La Plata, and Parrott City (alt., 8500 ft.), T. S. 

 Brandegee ; Hall and Harbour, No. 228. Arizona : Rusby, 1883 ; Santa 

 Rita Mts., Pringle, 1884 ; Sierra Blanca, J. T. Rothrock, No. 805, 1874; J. 

 G. Lemmon, 1884 (specimens differing from the type in their smaller spike- 

 lets, scarcely exceeding 4 lin. in length, while in the ordinary forms they 

 are two lines longer). New Mexico : C. Wright, No. 2063, 1851, and 

 Fendler, No. 924, 1847 ; G. R. Vasey, No. 142, July, 1881. Texas : Chixos 

 Mts., V. Havard, No. 19, 1883 (a small flowered form like that collected by 

 Lemmon in Arizona). 



6. Melica stricta, Bolander, Proc. Cal. Acad., iii, 1863, p. 4, and iv, p. 104; Watson, 

 Bot. King's Exped., 384; Thurb. in S. Wats. Bot. Cal., ii, 303. 

 Hab. — California: Virginia City, Bolander, No. 47; Toscmite Valley. 

 Bolander, No. 6089, 1866; Sierra Co., J. G. Lemmon, No. 223, 1874; 

 Bolander, Kellogg & Co., 1872 (alt. 7000 ft.); Sierra Nevada, "crevices 

 of high rocks, 9000 ft.," E. L. Greene, No. 417, Oct., 1884 ; same district, 

 alt. 9500 ft., C. G. Pringle, Sept., 1882 ; Plumas Co., R. M. Austin, 1878 ; 

 Soda Springs, alt. 9000 ft., M. E. Jones, July, 1881 ; "Dry ridges, among 

 rocks," Bear Valley, San Bernardino Mts., Parish Bros., No. 1553, Aug., 

 1882. Nevada: East Humboldt Mts., alt. 8000 ft., Aug., and Pah Ute 

 Mts., alt. 5500 ft., June, S. Watson, No. 1305, 1868. 



Note. — The inflorescence of this alpine species is similar to 

 that of M. Porteri, but the panicle is much shorter, with only 

 about a dozen spikelets, rarely more than 20, and the spikelets 

 themselves are very much larger. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 45 



7. Melica frutescens. 



Culms 2|-3i feet high, simple or branched near the base, 

 leafy ; leaves narrow, involute near the tip, scabrous, as are also 

 the sheaths. Panicle 6-12 inches long, strict, densely flowered 

 and spicate above, interrupted below, the appressed branches 

 1-3 inches long, densely flowered, or the longer ones naked 

 below. Spikelets about 6 lin. long, with usually 5 perfect florets ; 

 first glume about 5 lin. long ; the second a line longer, nearly 

 equaling the spikelet ; thh'd glume about 4 lin. long, obtuse, the 

 papery-membraneous tip occupying fully a third of its length. 

 Palea usually about one-half the length of its glume. 



Hab. — California: Southern California, Parry and Lemmon, No. 401, 

 1876 ; Mountains San Diego Co., C. G. Pringle, April 20, 1882 ; Lower 

 California, near the United States border, C. R. Orcutt, No. 513, May, 

 1883 ; Near the Tia Juana, M. E. Jones, No. 3748, April 6, 1882. 



8. Melica mutica.Walt., Flor. Carol., 78 (1788). M. glabra, Pursh. ; Mx. (in part.), 



.1/. niutit a, var. glabra, Gray in Man., 626. M. gpeciosa, Muhl., Ind. Fl. Lane. 

 (1791), 161, and Gram., i, 87. M. racemosa, Muhl. Gram., 88. M. Muehlen- 

 bergiana, Schult, Mant., 2, 294 (after Kunth). 



Distribution. — Pennsylvania, southward and westward to Texas, (781, 

 E. Hall). 



Distinguished from M. diffusa, with which it has been united 

 by some authors, by its more slender habit, less branched and 

 fewer flowered panicle, which is often reduced to a simple 

 raceme. The spikelets also rarely have more than two perfect 

 florets, the outer glumes are more nearly equal in length, and 

 often quite as long as the spikelet, while the flowering glumes 

 are broader and more obtuse. 



9. Melica spectabile. M. bulbosa, S.Wats., Bot. King. Exp., 383 ; Porter & Coulter, 



Fl. Colorado, 149. 



Hab. — Montana: Crow Creek Mts., etc., alt. 6000 ft., Scribner, No. 

 385, 1883 ; Bozeman Pass, Wm. M. Canby, No. 368, 1883. Colorado : Twin 

 Lakes, Upper Arkansas, and Plains near Ogden, T. C. Porter, 1872. 

 Yellowstone Park, C. C. Parry, No. 295, 1873. Utah : Cottonwood Canon, 

 alt. 10,000 ft., S. Watson, No. 1303, July, 1869. Idaho : Beaver Canon, S. 

 Watson, No. 455, July, 1880. 



This grass has been referred to Geyer's M. bulbosa by authors, 

 but aside from its affecting higher elevations, it is readily distin- 

 guished from that species by its usually taller and more slender 

 culms, by its more open and nodding panicle, by the more 




46 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



slender and flex nose pedicels, by its shorter empty glumes, and 

 by its broader flowering glumes, which taper abruptly to a 

 rounded and usually two-lobed summit. 



10. Melica Califomica, M. pomoidee, Torrey, in Pac. R. Rep., iv, 157, non Nutt. 

 M. bulbosa, Thurber, in S. Wats. Bot. Calif., ii, p. 304, non Geyer. 



Hab. — California : Bolander, Nos. 32 and G120 ; Kellogg & Harford, No. 

 1133, 1808-9 ; San Bernardino, Parish Bro., No. 865, 1881.— Mud Springs, 

 Upper Yellowstone, T. C. Porter, 1871. 



The bulbous character of the base of the culm, although 

 usually manifest, is sometimes wholly wanting, as in Prof. Porter's 

 specimens from the Upper Yellowstone. 



Prof. Thurber's description in the Botany of California applies 

 only to the Californian plant (M. Californica); from the distri- 

 bution given, however, and the authors cited, it is evident that 

 he supposed this to be identical with Geyer's plant, which is 

 typically represented by Cusick's specimens, and also my M. 

 spectabile. I have endeavored to point out the characters that 

 distinguish these three species, which, to me, appear sufficiently 

 well marked to leave little doubt of their specific rank. 



11. Melica bulbosa, Geyer, in Hook. Jour. Bot., viii, 1856, 19 (without description); 

 Gray, Proc. Am. Acad., viii, 409. 



Culms bulbous at the base, growing singly or densely tufted, 

 usually about 2 ft. high, simple ; sheaths and upper surface of 

 the leaves scabrous or (in Howell's specimens) retrosely pubes- 

 cent ; panicle slender erect, the short 1-3 flowered branches 

 appressed ; spikelets 5-7. lin. long with 6-8 perfect florets ; 

 empty glumes obtuse, the first about 3 lin. long, the second a line 

 longer and nearly equaling the third or first flowering glume, 

 which is oblong lanceolate, obtuse or notched at the tip and gen- 

 erally larger and firmer in texture than in M. Californica. 



Hab. — Oregon : "Rocky ravine, Upper Platte, and only seen in one grassy 

 spot," Geyer, No. 11 ; Union Co., W. C. Cusick, No. 900, 1880 and 900 a,, 

 1882 ; Bolander, Kellogj? & Co., 1872 ; Henderson, 1882 ; E. Hall, No. 635, 

 1871 ; Howell, 1881. Washington Territory: T. S. Brandegee, No. 1182, 

 1883. Nevada : Wheeler, 1872 ; West Humboldt Mts., alt. 8500 ft., 

 S. Watson, No. 1304, 1867. Idaho : Bois City, Dr. J. E. Wilcox, 1883. 

 Utah: Wasatch Mts., alt. 9000 ft., M. E. Jones, 1879; Ogden, J. M. 

 Coulter, 1872. Montana: Belt Mts., alt. 6000 ft., Scribncr, No. 386, 1883 

 (spikelets crowded above, 7-8 lin. long and 5-7 flowered). 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 47 



12. Melica bromoides, Gray, Proc. Am. Acad., viii, 409; Thurber in S. Wat. Bot. 



Cal., ii, 304. M. Geyeri, Munro, ex Bolander, Proc. Cal. Acad., iv, 130. M. 

 poseoidcs and M. p. var. bromoides, Nos. 6120, 40 and 6119 of Bolander's dis- 

 tributed sets. Qlyceria bullosa, Buckley, Proc. Phila. Acad., 1862, 95! 

 Hab. — California: Redwoods, Coast Range, Mt. Dana, Bolander, No. 



6119 ; San Francisco, No. 6120 ; Woods, Ukiah, Mendocino Co., Bolander, 



No. 40. Oregon : Near Waldo, Thos. Howell. 



Note. — Mr. Howell sends from Oregon (No. 335, 1884) a form 

 that diners from the type in its more open and fewer-flowered 

 panicle ; the flowering glumes are also considerably longer, and 

 entire, or but slightly notched at the tip, without any awn. 

 This form has a decided festucoid " look," and may be designated 

 as var. Howellii. 



13. Melica subulata. Bromus subulatus, Griseb. in Ledeb. Fl. Boss., iv, 358; Gray, 



Proc. Am. Acad., viii, 410. M. acuminata, Bol., Proc. Cal. Acad., iv, 104; 

 Thurber in S. Wats. Bot. Cal., ii, 305. M. poxoides, var. acuminata, of 

 Bolander's distribution, No. 4698. 



Hab. — California: Mendocino Co., Bolander, 1866. Oregon: E. Hall, 

 No. 645, 1871; "Low mountains," Union Co., W. C. Cusick, No. 876, 

 1880; "Along mountain streams," Howell, 1880, distributed sub nom. 

 "M. Geyeri" ; Kellogg and Harford, No. 1112, 1868-9; Suavie's Island, 

 Howell, 1883. Washington Terr. : Woods, Columbia River, W. N. Suks- 

 dorf, 1882 ; G. R. Vasey, No. 129, 1883. 



Festuca subulata, Brong.,is cited as a S3'non3 T m for this species 

 by Dr. Gray and Prof. Thurber. The description, in Led. Fl. Ross., 

 of F. subulata, Brong., and the synonyms there quoted point to a 

 very different grass. I would rather concur with the opinion 

 expressed by Prof. E. Hackel, that F. pauciflora, Thurber, in S. 

 Wats. Bot. Cal., ii, 318 (No. 6073, Bolander), is the F. subulata, 

 of Brongard, and not Thunberg's F. pauciflora. 



14. Meliea Harfordii, Boland. in Proc. Calif. Acad., iv, 102; Thurber in S.Wats, 



Bot. Calif., ii, 305. 



Hab. — California : Canons, Santa Cruz Coast, Bolander, and Redwood 

 on the Upper Mattole River, No. 6424 : Sierra, alt. 4000 ft., Bolander, Kel- 

 logg & Co., 1872 ; G. R. Vasey, 1875 (these specimens show well the tufted 

 habit of the species) ; J. G. Lemmon. Oregon : Waldo, Howell, June, 

 1884 ; L. F. Henderson, 1883. Washington Territory : Willamette Slough, 

 Howell, May, 1882 ; Dry rocky hillsides, Columbia River, Klickitat Co., W. 

 N. Suksdorf, 1882. 



" This grass I collected in June, 1864, in a gulch near the 

 summit of Santa Cruz Mts. It grows in large tufts 3-6 ft. high, 

 the spikelets breaking asunder, even in what appear to be }-oung 

 specimens, at the slightest touch. Panicle contracted, erect, 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



slightly drooping at the apex, caused by the club-shaped heavy 

 top, often 9 in. long, with a few or even a single branch far below 

 the main panicle. This spring I noticed the same grass near 

 Ukiah." — Bolander in Herb. A. Gray. 



In Bolander's specimens the spikelets are about 5 lin long, and 

 less than a line in width ; the second empty glume is scarcely 3 

 lin. long, and the slender awn of the flowering glume is about a 

 line in length. In the Oregon specimens the spikelets are 8 lin. 

 long and nearly 2 lin. in width, with the second glume nearly 5 

 lin. long. 



15. Melica aristata, Thurb. in Bolander's Revision of the Melicfc, Proc. Calif. Acad., 

 iv, 103, and in S. Wats. Bot. Calif., ii, p. 305. 



Hab. — California: Yosemite Valley, Bolander, No. 4861, 1866 (sheaths 

 and leaves densely pilose); Bolander, Kellogg & Co., 1872 (culms stout, 3 

 ft. high, panicle a foot long, purplish) ; Emigrant Gap, M. E. Jones, 1882 ; 

 Mt. Shaster, alt. 6000 ft.; C. G. Pringle, August, 1881 (culms slender, smooth, 

 sheaths and leaves scabious, panicle simple, few-flowered, dark purple). 

 Washington Territory: W. N. Suksdorf, 1883 (panicle few-flowered, 

 green. ) 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. 



Spikelet of Melica imperfecta. 



Same with the outer glumes removed, showing the nearly sessile 



rudimentary floret, r. 

 Spikelet of M. Torreyana. 

 Same with outer glumes removed. 

 Spikelet of M. fugax. 

 Spikelet of M. California. 

 Spikelet of M. bulbosa, from the typical plant. 

 Anterior view of floret of same, showing palea. 

 Terminal empty glume and rudiment of same. 

 Spikelet of M. bulbosa, the florets raised above the empty glumes ; 



unusually large, from the Idaho specimens. 

 Spikelet of Melica spectabile. 

 Terminal empty glume and rudiment of same. 

 Anterior view of flowering glume of same, flattened to show 



veins, etc. 

 Seed of M. bulbosa from Howell's specimens. 

 Spikelet of Melica frutescens. 

 Floret of same. 

 Spikelet of Melica Porteri. 



Dorsal view of flowering glume, flattened out above. 

 Spikelet of Melica subulata. 

 A floret from the spikelet of Melica bromoides. 



All enlarged on the same scale, excepting fig. 14. 




1885.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 49 



March 17. 



Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" Entomologia Hongkongensis. — Report on the Lepidoptera of 

 Hongkong," by F. Warrington Eastlake. 



" Description of a supposed new species of the genus Cyano- 

 corax," by Alan F. Gentry. 



The death of Titian R. Peale, a member, was announced. 



March 24. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



Remarks on Mylodon. — Prof. Leidy remarked that among the 

 fossils of Mastodon, Equus, etc., from the salt mines of New 

 Iberia, La., noticed in the Proceedings of 1884, p. 22, there are 

 three teeth, which are probably to be referred to the reputed 

 Mylodon Harlani. Of this species we are sufficiently well 

 acquainted with the posterior three lower molars, but know little 

 of the first lower molar, and nothing of the upper teeth. One 

 of the Louisiana specimens accords in form and size with the 

 third lower molar, in the best preserved jaw-fragment (see 

 Extinct Sloth Tribe, pi. xiv, 1, 2), from Big-bone-lick, Ken., 

 regarded as characteristic of Mylodon Harlani. The other 

 Louisiana specimens, in comparison with the complete dental 

 series in both jaws of Mylodon robustus, as represented in the 

 famous memoir of Prof. Owen, are so unlike any of the teeth of 

 this animal, that they might readily be considered as pertaining 

 to another genus. One of the specimens, of which the tritu- 

 rating extremity and a transverse section are represented in the 

 outline figures 1; 2, he took to be a first lower molar. It has lost 

 all its cementum, but is otherwise well preserved. It is worn off 

 in deep slopes, of which the posterior is more than an inch 

 long, and the anterior little less than an inch. The transverse 

 section is reniform, widest in front, and agrees in shape and size 

 with a fragment of the corresponding tooth (pp. cit., pi. xvi, 19 a) 

 retained in the jaw-fragment from Kentucky. In all the teeth of 

 Mylodon robustus, the triturating surface inclines comparatively 

 little from a level. Such also is the case in all the teeth of the 

 ramus of a lower jaw, from Natchez, Miss., attributed to a half- 




50 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



grown animal of Mylodon Harlani, preserved in our museum. 

 In this, among some rude casts in plaster, the originals of which 



were described by Dr. 

 Harlan, under the name 

 of Orycterotherium mis- 

 souriense (Am. Jour. Sci., 

 1843, G9), and subse- 

 quently 7 referred to Mylo- 

 don Harlani, is one of 

 a lower-jaw fragment, 

 which contains the first 

 molar, and the mutilated 

 base of the second. The 

 latter, in the perfect state, 

 would appear to accord 

 in shape and size with 

 the corresponding tooth 

 l. in the Kentucky jaw- 



fragment, referred to 3Iylodon Harlani. The first molar is 

 unlike that of Mylodon robustus, but sufficiently accords in size, 



shape, and condi- 

 tion of wear, with 

 the Louisiana tooth 

 to regard this as 

 pertaining to the 

 same animal. The 

 remaining Louisi- 

 ana specimen is 

 not only unlike 

 any of the teeth of 

 Mylodon ?'obustus, 

 but differs from 

 them to such a 

 degree as to render it doubtful whether it belongs to the same 

 genus. In comparison with other teeth of the lower or upper 



series, in size and 

 shape, it accords 

 with the canine 

 molars of Megalonyx 

 more than it does 

 with any of the teeth 

 of Mylodon. The 

 triturating extrem- 

 ity and transverse 

 section are repre- 

 sented in the outlines 

 3 and 4. It is more 

 uniformly elliptical in transverse section than in the canine 

 molars of Megalonyx, and is devoid of the abrupt median bulge 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



inwardly of the latter. Regarding it as a first upper molar, 

 it is twice the breadth of the corresponding tooth of 

 Mylodon robustus, not only absolutely, but also proportion- 

 ately in comparison with all the other teeth, except the last 

 one of the lower series. The triturating extremity is worn away 

 obliquely and concavely behind for about two-thirds the breadth 

 of the tooth, and obliquely in front the remaining third of the 

 breadth, but the slopes extend only half the depth observed in 

 the accompanying specimen of the first lower molar. In view of 

 the dentition of Mylodon robustus, it seems improbable that this 

 tooth should belong to an animal of the same genus, nor would it 

 appear to be adapted as an opponent to the comparatively 

 narrow, long-pointed tooth which accompanies it. Nevertheless, 

 he was suspicious that both these teeth may pertain to the 

 Mylodon Harlani, partly from the fact that the lower-jaw 

 fragment, originally referred to Orycterotherium missouriense, 

 and then to the latter, contains a first molar like the Louisiana 

 specimen, and partly from the fact that the jaw-fragment was 

 accompanied by an isolated molar tooth nearly resembling the 

 supposed upper first molar from Louisiana. A plaster cast of 

 the tooth referred to Orycterotherium, of which the triturating 

 extremity and transverse section are represented in the outlines 

 5 and 6, though rather smaller, is sufficiently like the corres- 

 ponding Louisiana tooth to render it probable this belonged to 

 the same animal. Admitting that the two Louisiana specimens 

 may not belong to the reputed Mylodon Earlani, he felt that the 

 coincidence of facts is such as not to justify a conclusion to refer 

 them to a new genus, and if further discovery should demon- 

 strate that they really pertain to this animal, it becomes a 

 question whether the difference of the teeth from those of Mylodon 

 robustus is not sufficient to restore the name of Orycterotherium, 

 missouriense. 



Fig. 1. Outer view of the first lower molar; Louisiana speci- 

 men ; length, 85 mm. Fig. 2. Transverse section ; the front 

 above, the outer side to the right ; fore and aft, 24 mm. ; short 

 diameter, IT mm. Fig. 3. Outer view of the first upper molar, 

 Louisiana specimen ; length, 83 mm. Fig. 4. Transverse sec- 

 tion ; fore and aft, 34 mm.; short diameter, 19 mm. Fig. 5. 

 Outer view of cast referred to Orycterotherium ; length, 67 mm. 

 Fig. 6. Transverse section; fore and aft, 29 mm. ; short diameter, 

 17 mm. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN GENERA AND SPECIES OF BATRACHID.E. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND EDWARD A. HALL. 



In the present paper we have attempted to collect the synonymy 

 of all the genera and species of Batrachida 1 known from American 

 waters. 



The specimens examined by us all belong to the Museum of the 

 Indiana University. 



Analysis of Genera of Balrachidse. 

 a. Dorsal spines two ; opercle very small, its posterior part 

 developed as a single strong spine ; subopercle feebly 

 developed, narrowed and not ending in a spine ; body 

 scaleless. 

 b. Spines of dorsal fin and operculum hollow and connected 

 with venom glands ; lateral line on sides of body single ; 

 no canine teeth. Thalassophryne. 1. 



bb. Spines solid, without venom glands ; several lateral lines 

 on sides of head and body, composed of pores and 

 shining spots, some of these accompanied by cirri ; 

 canine teeth present; vertebrae 12 + 31 ; frontal region 

 depressed, forming a triangular area below level of tem- 

 poral region, its median ridge very low. Porichthys. 2. 

 aa. Dorsal spines three ; opercle developed as two strong 

 diverging spines ; subopercle rather strong, with two 

 spines similar to those of opercle. 

 c. Body scaleless ; branches of subopercular spine parallel, 

 the lower branch much the shorter ; vertebra? 10 + 22 ; 

 frontal region not depressed, its median ridge promi- 

 nent. Batraciius. 3. 

 cc. Body scaly ; branches of subopercular spine subequal 

 and diverging ; frontal region broad, flat and slightly 

 depressed, its median ridge rather prominent. 



Batrachoides. 4. 



1. THALASSOPHRYNE. 

 Thalassophryne Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1801, 174 (maculosa). 

 In this genus only five species are recognized. These have been 

 well described by Dr. Giinther and Dr. Steindachner. They are 

 noted for the development of poison glands in connection with 

 their spinous armature. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



Analysis of Species of Thalassophryne. 

 Common Characters. — Dorsal spines two ; opercle very small, 

 its posterior part developed as a single strong spine ; subopercle 

 feebly developed, narrowed and not ending in a spine; no scales 

 on body. Spines hollow and connected with venom glands. 

 Lateral line on sides of body single ; no canine teeth. America. 



a. Dorsal and anal fins joined to the caudal ; teeth on premaxil- 

 laries smaller than on lower jaw ; eye very small ; lower jaw 

 the longer. D. 11-20 ; A. 18 or 19. 

 b. Anterior teeth on jaws in two rows. 



c. Pectoral fins short, their tips reaching just to front of anal ; 



head as wide as long ; opercular spine about \ length of 



head ; caudal ^ length of head. Color chocolate-brown; 



no distinct dark bands on head ; body, except belly and 



under side of head covered with numerous small, dark, 



round spots ; anal clear brownish gray, edged with 



dark brown ; no dark bands on sides of body. (Stein- 



dachner.) Punctata. 1. 



cc. Pectoral fins longer, reaching past third or fourth anal 



ray ; head 1^ times as long as wide ; opercular spine 



about ^ length of head ; caudal § of length of head ; 



mouth very oblique. Color brownish, marbled with 



darker ; two distinct bands on head ; dorsal and anal 



with brown spots arranged in distinct rows ; six dark 



bands on sides of body, the first at spinous dorsal, the 



others along the base of soft dorsal. {Steindachner.) 



Amazonica. 2. 

 bb. Anterior teeth on lower jaw forming a band ; mouth mod- 

 erately oblique ; head less than 3 in length of body ; 

 interorbital width 5^ to 5^ in length of head. Color more 

 or less clear reddish brown ; belly brownish yellow ; base 

 of fins reddish brown or whitish, the upper part of the fins 

 deep dark brown, the two colors separated by a distinctly 

 marked whitish streak. (Steindachner.) Nattereri. 3. 

 aa. Dorsal and anal fins not joined to the caudal. 



d. Dorsal and anal fins rather short (D. 11-19; A, 18); 

 pectoral fins short, their tips reaching to origin of 

 anal. Color brown, marbled with darker ; pectoral 

 fins and sides of body with some round black spots ; 

 chin and ventrals brownish ; belly white. (G'unther.) 



Maculosa. 4. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



dd. Dorsal and anal fins longer (D. 11-24 ; A, 24) ; pec- 

 toral fins longer, their tips reaching to sixth anal 

 ray. Color of head, body, and fins brown, with a 

 network of } r ellowish lines ; dorsal, anal, caudal 

 and pectoral fins with white margins. {Gunther.) 



Reticulata. 5. 



1. Thalassophryne punctata. 



Thalassophryne punctata Steindachner, Ichthyol. Beitrilge, v, 1876, 121 

 (Bahia ; Porto Segro.) 



Habitat. — Coast of Brazil. 



This species is known to us only from Steindachner's descrip- 

 tion. 



2. Thalassophryne amazonica. 



Thalassophryne amazonica Steindachner, Ichthyol. Beitriige, v, 1876, 

 113 (Amazon River). 



Habitat. — South America, Amazon Basin, in fresh water. 

 This species is known to us only from the description of Stein- 

 dachner. 



3. Thalassophryne nattereri. 



Thalassophryne nattereri Steindachner, Ichthyol. Beitriige, v, 1876, 115 

 (Para). 



Habitat. — Amazon Basin ; Para. 



This species is known to us only from the description of Stein- 

 dachner. 



4. Thalassophryne maculosa. 



'.' ? Batrachus (jronovii Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 



1837, 482 (America). 

 ? ? Callionymus niqui Gronow, Cat. Fish., Ed. Gray, 1854, 45. 

 Thalassophryne maculosa Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 1861, 175 



(Puerto Cabello) ; Gunther, Fishes of Central America, 1869, 436, 



pi. 68, fig. 1 (Puerto Cabello). 



Habitat. — Eastern Coast of Central America ; Puerto Cabello. 



This species is known to us only from the description of Dr. 

 Gunther. 



Batrachus gronovii of Cuvier & Valenciennes = Gallionymus 

 niqui Gronow, perhaps, belongs to some species of this genus ; 

 but of this there can be no certainty, the descriptions are too 

 imperfect. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



5. Thaiassophryne reticulata. 



Thalassopliryne reticulata Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. London, 1864, 150 

 155 (Panama); Giinther, Fish. Central America, 1869, 437, pi. 68, 

 fig. 2 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 626 

 (Panama). 



Habitat. — Western Coast of Central America ; Panama. 

 This species is known to us only from the accounts of Dr. 

 Giinther and Professors Jordan and Gilbert. 



2. PORICHTHYS. 

 Porichthys Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 141 (notatus = 



margaritatus). 



This genus is remarkable for the development of its mucous 

 pores, or " lateral lines." The number of vertebrae in Porichthys 

 is much greater than in Batrachus, and the skull is somewhat 

 different. 



Analysis of Species of Porichthys. 



Common Characters. — Dorsal spines two ; opercle very small, 

 its posterior part developed as a strong, single spine ; suboper- 

 culum feebly developed, narrowed and not ending in a spine ; 

 no scales on body; spines solid, without venom glands ; several 

 lateral lines on sides of head and body, composed of pores and 

 shining spots, some of these accompanied by cirri ; canine teeth 

 present; vertebras 12 + 31; frontal region depressed, forming a 

 triangular area below level of temporal region, its median ridge 

 very low. Branchiostegals 6 ; interorbital area short, wide, and 

 with shallow grooves. Air bladder more or less deeply divided 

 into lateral parts. Pyloric appendages none. 



a. Abdomen with two longitudinal series of pores, none of them 



accompanied by shining bodies ; vomer with one canine tooth 



on each side. Color above brown, sides and belly silvery; 



dorsal fin with four oblique dark bands ; posterior half of the 



caudal blackish, or with blackish spots; anal with two 



blackish spots posteriorly. Head 4f in total length. 



D. 11-34 ; A. 33. Porosus. 6. 



aa. Abdomen with four longitudinal series of pores ; each of 



which is accompanied by a shining silvery body ; four rows 



of pores on sides of body. Color dark brownish above, 



below with brassy reflections ; dorsal and anal with dark 



margins, a dark blotch below eye. Head 3| in length. D. 



11-37 ; A. 33. 




56 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



b. Teeth on palatines numerous, subequal, none of them much 

 enlarged ; two canine teeth on each side on vomer, the 

 inner ones usually about \ length of outer ones. 



Margaritatus. 'I. 



bb. Teeth on palatines unequal, few ; one to three on each side 

 enlarged and canine-like ; one canine tooth on each side 

 on vomer. Porosissimus. 8. 



6. Porichthys porosus. 



Batrachus porosus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 1837, 

 506 (Valparaiso); Gay, "Hist. Chili Zool., ii, 1844-54, 296 (Chili)." 



Porichthys porosus Gi'mther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 177 (Chili); 

 Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 41. 



Habitat. — Western Coast of South America, Chili. 

 We have not seen this species ; we only know it from the 

 accounts above cited. 



7. Porichthys margaritatus. Midshipman ; Singing-fish ; Cabezon ; Sapo. 



Batrachus margaritatus Richardson, " Voyage Sulphur, Fishes, 1844- 

 45, 67 (Pacific Coast of Central America)." 



Porichthys margaritatus Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 368 (Cape San Lucas ; no description); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., 1882, 626 (Central America ; no description); Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 958 ; Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 1883, 291 (Panama; Vancouver's Island); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1884, 41. 



PoricJithys notatus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 1854, 141 ; Girard, U. 

 S. Pacific R. R. Survey, 1859, 134 (San Francisco); Goode, Bull. U. 

 S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 32 (Pacific Coast). 



Porichthys porosissimus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 176 

 (in part; Vancouver Island); Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1862, 

 280 (California); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 25 

 (San Diego; no description); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 83 

 (West Coast ; San Diego ; Santa Barbara ; Monterey ; no description); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 454 (Puget Sound ; 

 San Francisco ; Monterey Bay ; San Luis Obispo ; Santa Barbara ; 

 San Pedro ; San Diego ; no description) ; Rosa Smith, Ichth. San 

 Diego, 1880 (San Diego) ; Jordan & Jouy, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 5 (Santa Barbara ; Monterey ; San Francisco ; Puget Sound ; no de- 

 scription); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 65 (West 

 Coast U. 8.; no description); Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 268 

 (Puget Sound); Jordan «fc Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 274 

 (Gulf of California ; no description); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. 

 A., 1883, 751; (not Batrachus porosissimus Cuvier & Valenciennes). 



Habitat. — Western Coast of North America, from British Co- 

 lumbia to Panama. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 51 



This species has been confounded with porosissimus, but the 

 absence of canine teeth on palatines (a constant character in all 

 known specimens), warrants its separation. Professor Jordan has 

 also examined the specimens in the British Museum. Those in 

 that collection from the Atlantic have canine teeth on the pala- 

 tines, the character assigned to P. plectrodon, while these are 

 wanting in the examples from the Pacific. 



A letter from Dr. H. E. Sauvage to Professor Jordan, states 

 that the t} r pe of Batrachus porosissimus Cuv. and Val. " has a 

 strong canine tooth on each side of the vomer ; on the palatines are 

 seen at first a strong, then some small teeth, and finally a strong 

 curved tooth." 



The application of the name po?*osissimus to the present form 

 is thus shown to be improper. 



8. Porichthys porosissimus. 



Batrachus porosissimus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 

 1837, 501 (Surinam ; Cayenne ; Rio Janeiro ; St. Catherine); Jenyns, 

 "Zool. Beagle, 1842, 99." 



Porichtliys porosissimus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 176 

 (Brazil); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 41 ; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 751 ; Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 

 1883 (South America). 



Porichthys plectrodon Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 291 (Gal- 

 veston); Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 236 (Gulf of 

 Mexico; no description); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 307 (Gulf of Mexico ; no description); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 616 (Charleston; no description); Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 958 ; Bean, Cat. Fish. Exhibited, 

 London Exhibit, 1883, 47. 



Habitat — Atlantic Coast of North and South America, from 

 Charleston to Rio Janeiro. 



We have nothing to add to the very detailed description of 

 this species, given by Jordan and Gilbert under the name of 

 Porichthys plectrodon. The single specimen examined by us is 

 from Pensacola. 



3. BATRACHUS. 



Batrachus Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 42 {didactylus, 



tau, etc.). 



In this genus we recognize one American species, with two 

 varieties ; all found in the Atlantic. 

 5 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Analysis of Species of Batrachus. 

 Common Characters. — Dorsal spines three ; opercle developed 

 as two strong, diverging, subequal spines ; subopercle rather well 

 developed ; branches of subopercular spine parallel, the lower 

 branch much the shorter. No scales on body. Yertebra 10 + 22 ; 

 frontal region not depressed, its median ridge prominent. Inter- 

 orbital long and narrow with a deep groove. Branchiostegals 6. 

 Teeth conical and blunt ; lateral teeth on jaws and palatines in 

 single rows. A large foramen in axil of pectoral fin (in North 

 American species). Head about 2f in length of body ; width of 

 head from 3 to 4 in length of body. D. 111-24 to 28; A. 

 19 to 22. 

 a. Two indistinct rows of pores on sides of body. 



b. A fleshy tentacle between nostrils ; color brownish or dusky 



greenish, mottled with darker and lighter, the dark on 



sides of body in large irregular blotches extending from 



base of dorsal to about § distance to base of anal, and 



more or less covered with small pale spots ; belly and 



chin plain white or yellowish. In specimens from shallow 



water or algae, the brown becomes nearly black and more 



extended, the belly and chin spotted with darker, and top 



of the head has no distinct markings ; in specimens from 



deeper water or from coral sand, the coloration is more 



brownish or 3^ellowish. Soft dorsal with six to nine 



oblique light bands ; anal with five to nine. Caudal and 



pectoral fins with five to seven light cross-bands, these 



formed chiefly from light spots ; ventrals with some dark 



markings. Tau. 9. 



bb. No fleshy tentacle between nostrils ; color whitish or gray, 



everywhere blotched or spotted with brownish yellow and 



black, the black spots on top of head smaller and more 



numerous than on rest of body ; a large black blotch at 



base of spinous dorsal, running up on fin ; three black 



blotches along base of soft dorsal, which do not extend 



half the distance to base of anal. Pectoral with black 



spots which do not form cross-bands. Ventrals with 



more dark markings than in tau. Dorsal, anal and caudal 



marked nearly as in tau. Tau pardus. 9 b. 



aa. Two very prominent rows of pores on sides of body ; teeth 



more numerous than in Batrachus tau. Cirri above eyes 



very large (Cuv. and Val.). Tau cryptocentrus. 9 c. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



9 a. Batrachus tau. Toad-fish : Sapo. 



Gadus tau Linnaeus, Systema Naturae, ed. xii, 1766, 439 (Carolina) ; 

 Scboepf, Beobacht. viii, 1788, 141 (New York) ; Walbaum, Genera 

 Pise., 1792, 135 (Eastern America). 



Batrachus tau Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 1837, 

 478 (New York) ; De Kay, New York Fauna, Fish, 1842, 168, pi. 

 28, f. 26 (New York) ; Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 132 ; Giinther, 

 Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 167 (New York ; New Orleans) ; 

 Gill, Cat. Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861 (name only) ; Poey, Syn, 

 Pise. Cuba, 1868, 390 (Cuba) ; Gill, -Report U. S. Fish Comm., 

 1871-72, 798 (New Jersey ; Florida ; Cuba ; no description) ; Baird, 

 Report U. S. Fish Comm., 1871-72, 824 (Wood's Holl) ; Poey, 

 Enumeratio Pise. Cubensium, 1875, 136 (Cuba) ; Jordan & Gilbert, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1878, 372 (Beaufort, N. C. ; no description) ; 

 Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 110 (Mouth of the St. John's 

 River, Fla. ; no description) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1879, 127 (Pensacola) ; Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 

 334 (Pensacola ; Beasley's Point, N. J. ; Norfolk, Va. ; Punta Russa, 

 Fla. ; Wood's Holl, Mass. ; Indianola, Tex.) ; Goode, Bull. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., xiv, 1879, 32 (Wood's Holl ; no description) ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 83 (Wood's Holl, Mass. ; 

 Noank, Conn.) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 291 (Pensacola, Fla.) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 616 (South Carolina ; no description) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. 

 Fish. N. A., 1882, 750 ; Bean, Cat. Fish. Ex. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 

 47; Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 143 (Key West; no 

 description). 



Lophius bufo Mitchill, Trans. Lit. and Phil. Soc, New York, 1815, 

 463 (New York). 



Batrachoides vernullasLe Sueur, "Mem. Mus., v, 1819, 157, pi. 17." 



Batrachoides variegatus Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iii, 

 1823, 399 and 401 (Egg Harbor, New Jersey). 



Batrachus variegatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 

 1837, 484 (copied) ; Storer, Fish. Mass., 1839, 74 (Holmes' Hole) ; 

 Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 133 (New York) ; Gill, Cat. Fish. 

 East Coast N. A., 1861, 43 (Name only). 



Batrachus celatus De Kay, New York Fauna, Fish, 1842, 170, pi. 50, 

 f. 161 (New York) ; Storer, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 133 ; Gill, Cat. 

 Fish. East Coast N. A., 1861, 43 (Name only). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of North America, from Cape Cod to 

 Cuba. 



We have examined numerous specimens (from 3 to 9f inches 

 in length) of this species from Key West, Florida. We find 

 among these apparently the varieties A and B of Dr. Giinther, 

 and also intermediate grades. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



In the young specimens the head is more narrow and rounded, 

 and the lower branch of the subopercular spine proportionally 

 larger than in the adult. 



The deeper-water specimens are lighter in coloration than those 

 from near the surface, and those from the coral reefs are paler 

 than those from the green algae and sea-wrack, otherwise no dif- 

 ferences seem to exist. 



9 b. Batrachus tau pardus. 



Batrachus tau var. pardus Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 

 336 (Pensacola, Fla.); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 

 751. 



Batrachus pardus Goode & Bean, Proc. U.S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 336' 

 (Gulf of Mexico); Bean, Cat. Fish. London Exhibit., 1883, 47 (Pensa- 

 cola, Fla.); Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1884, 45 (Egmont 

 Key). 



Habitat. — Gulf of Mexico ; Egmont Key ; Pensacola. 



The coloration of ^tardus is very different from that of tau. In 

 the specimen (13| inches in length, from Pensacola) which we 

 have examined, the fleshy tentacle between nostrils is wanting, 

 while in all the specimens of B. tau this is present. 



The former seems to be a deep-water variety or subspecies of 

 the latter. The few specimens of pardus known are from con- 

 siderable depths. The texture of the flesh and the skin is less 

 firm than in tau. 



9 c. Batrachus tau cryptocentrus. 



Batrachus cryptocentrus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 

 1837, 485 (Bahia). 



Habitat — Eastern Coast of South America (Bahia). 



This form is known only from the meagre description of Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes. We venture to place it among the varieties of 

 tau, as no diagnostic character of importance appears in the 

 description. 



4. BATRACHOIDES. 



Batrachoidcs Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1798, 306 (Batrachoidcs tau 

 Lacopede = Batrachus surinamcnsis Bloch). 



This genus is closely allied to Batrachus, but it seems to be 

 sufficiently distinguished by the scaly body. Two species are 

 found in American waters. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 01 



Analysis of Species of Batrachoides. 



Common Characters. — Dorsal spines three ; opercle developed 

 as two strong diverging spines ; subopercle strongly developed ; 

 branches of subopercular spine subequal and diverging ; body 

 covered with small ctenoid scales ; frontal region broad, flat, and 

 slightly depressed, its median ridge rather prominent. 



a. Teeth small, abont 14 on vomer; anterior teeth on lower jaw 



in a band ; lateral teeth on palatines enlarged and canine-like, 



irregularly arranged ; pectoral without pores on its inner 



surface. Color grayish, darker on sides and head ; base of soft 



dorsal pale, with a dark irregular line above ; upper part of 



fin lighter ; caudal nearly black ; anal fin light, with some 



dark markings. Head 3£ in length of body ; depth 6. D. 



Ill— 29 ; A. 26. Surinamensis. 10. 



aa. Teeth larger, about 8 on vomer ; anterior teeth on lower jaw 



in two rows ; lateral teeth on lower jaw gradually increasing 



to middle of jaw, behind which they become abruptly 



smaller, and then gradually increase to end of jaw ; three 



teeth on middle of palatines enlarged and canine-like, the 



middle one the smallest ; pectoral with a row of pores on 



inner surface. Color olivaceous brown ; some indistinct 



dark cross-bands on body ; dorsal with about seven very 



irregular oblique dark bars, anal with about five; pectorals 



and caudal dark, with few light cross-bands. Head 3 in 



length of body. D. 111-26 ; A. 22. Pacifici. 11. 



10. Batrachoides surinamensis. 



Batrachoides tau Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1798, 30G, pi. 12, fig. 

 1 (not Gadus tau L.) 



Batrachus surinamensis ~B\oc\i & Schneider, Systemalchthyol., 1801, 43, 

 tab. 7 (Surinam); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 1837, 

 488 (Surinam); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 174 (Dema- 

 rara ; British Guiana ; West Coast Central America). 



Habitat. — Atlantic Coast of Tropical America; a specimen 

 recorded by Dr. Giinther from the Pacific Coast. 



The single specimen of this species examined by us is from 

 Curuca. The record given by Dr. Giinther of this species from 

 the Pacific Coast needs verification. It was not found at Panama 

 by Professor Gilbert. 




C2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



11. Batrachoides pacifici 



BatracJius pacifici Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 1861, 173 



(Panama); Giinther, Fishes Central Amer., 1869, 435 (Panama). 

 Batrachoides pacifici Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 170 (West 



Coast of Central America); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish. 



Com., 1882, 3 (Panama; no description); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 626 (Panama ; no description). 



Habitat. — West Coast of Tropical America ; Panama. 



The single specimen of this species examined by us is from 

 Panama, at which place the species was found to be abundant by 

 Professor Gilbert. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



A REVIEW OF THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS PIMEPHALES. 

 BY WILLIS S. BLATCHLEY. 



I have examined numerous specimens of Pimephales and 

 Hyborhynchus from various parts of the United States, with a 

 view to discrimination of the species. 



The genus Hyborhynchus is evidently unworthy of retention, 

 and the entire group is, in my opinion, composed of but two 

 species, Pimephales promelas and Pimephales notatus. 



I give the synonymy of each and an analytical key giving the 

 principal characters by which they may be separated. 



The specimens examined belong to the Museum of the Indiana 

 University. 



a. Body comparatively short and deep, the greatest depth about 



4 times in length of body ; head short, convex, almost as 



broad as long in the adult, its length 4 in body ; mouth 



slightly oblique ; lateral line of various lengths, sometimes 



wanting on twenty or more scales ; sometimes complete 



(variety confertus) ; origin of dorsal midway between 



pupil and base of caudal ; ventrals reaching to or beyond 



first ray of anal ; head, dorsal and pectoral fins of breeding 



males jet black, the snout with a few moderate-sized 



tubercles ; scales 8-47-6. Promelas. 1. 



aa. Body elongate, rather slender, the greatest depth about 4f 



times in length of body ; head comparatively long, its 



length 4i in body, its surface much depressed above and 



descending abruptly in front of nostrils ; mouth horizontal; 



lateral line complete ; origin of dorsal midway between 



snout and base of caudal ; ventrals not reaching vent ; 



males in spring with 16 large nuptial tubercles, often 



accompanied by a small protuberance of skin, resembling 



a barbel, at angle of mouth ; scales 6-44-4. Notatus. 2. 



1. Pimephales promelas Raf. 



Pimephales promelas Rafinesque, Ichth. Oh., 1820, 53 (Lexington, 

 Ky.); Kirtland, Rept. Zool. Ohio, 1838, 194; Kirtland, Bost. Jour. 

 Nat. Hist., iii, J838, 475 ; Storer, Synopsis, 1846, 418 ; Agassiz, 

 Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 1855, 220 ; Putnam, Bull. M. C. Z., 1863, 8 ; 

 Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vii, 1868, 181 ; Jordan, Ind. Geol. 

 Surv., 1874, 224; Jordan, Bull. Buff. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1876, 94; 




64 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Jordan, Man. Vert.. 1st cd., 1876, 275 ; 2d ed., 1878, 288 ; 3d ed., 

 1880, 288 ; Nelson, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., i, 1876, 45 (Bailey's 

 Creek, 111., Evanston, 111.) ; Jordan & Copeland, Check List Fresh 

 Water Fish. N. A., 1876, 146; Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., ix, 

 1877, 32 ; Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., 1877, No. 4, 107 (Wis- 

 consin R., Pecatonica R., Ohio R., Kentucky R.); Jordan, Bull. 111. 

 Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 55 (Bailey's Cr.; Rock R,, 111.); Jordan & 

 Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, 1878, 78 (Tributaries Cumber- 

 land R.); Jordan, Bull. Hayden's Geol. Surv., iv, 1878, 402, 419 and 

 783 (Rio Grande); Jordan, Rept. Geol. Surv. Ohio, iv, 1882, 839; 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 158 ; Bean, Cat. Fish. 

 Internat. Fish Exhibition, London, 1883, 95 (Lake Beaver, Peters- 

 burgh). 



Pimephales maculosus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 180 

 (Arkansas R.); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 234 (Arkansas R.). 



Pimephales fasciatus Girard. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1850, 180 

 (Yellowstone R.; MilkR.); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 234 

 (Yellowstone R.; MilkR.). 



Ilyhorhynchus confertus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1850, 179 

 (Pecos R.); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 233 (Pecos R.); Jor- 

 dan & Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 159. 



/ '/ u rgyrus meletnocephalus Abbott, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, 

 325 (Lake Whittelsey, Minn.). 



Phn ephales milesii Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1864, 282 (Detroit 

 R.); Gi'mther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vii, 1868, 181 (copied) ; Nelson, 

 Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist,, i, 1876, 45 ; Jordan, Man. Vert,, 1st ed., 

 1876, 276. 



Pimephales agassizii Cope, Cyp. Penn., 1866, 394 (Whitewater R., 

 Ind.); Jordan, Ind. Geol. Surv., 1874, 224. 



Ilyhorhynchus nigellus Cope, Zool. Wheeler's Expl. W. 100th Mer., 

 v, 671 (Arkansas R., Pueblo, Col.). 



Pimephales nigellus Jordan, Bull. Hayden's Geol. Surv., iv, 1878, 664 

 Rio Grande R.). 



Habitat. — Lake Champlain to the Upper Missouri, south to 

 Tennessee and the Rio Grande. The species H. confertus 

 Girard, is, in my opinion, not a distinct species, but only the 

 western form of promelas, having the lateral line better 

 developed. 



2. Pimephales notatus. 



Minnilus notatus Rafinesque, Ichth. Oh., 1820, 47 (OhioR.). 



Hyborhynchus notatus Agassiz, Amer. Jour. Sci. Arts, 185."), 222 

 (Frankfort, Ky. ; Scioto R. ; Quincy, 111.; Burlington, Iowa; Lebanon, 

 Tenn.; Natchez, ^Miss. ; Beardstown and La Salle, 111.; Rome, N. Y.; 

 L. Huron, L. Champlain); Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1804, 

 282; Cope, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1808, 235; Giinther, Cat. 




188.0.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 6S 



Fish. Brit. Mus., vii, 18G8, 182 (Montreal; Kanawha R.); Cope, 

 Cyp. Penn., 186G, 392 ; Jordan, Ind. Geol. Snrv., 1874, 224 (L. Michi- 

 gan, Ohio R.); Nelson, Bull. 111. Lah. Nat. Hist., i, 1876, 45 ; Jordan, 

 Man. Yert., 1st ed., 1876, 275 ; 2d ed., 1878, 288 ; 3d ed., 1880, 288 ; 

 Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, 45 (Lakes, Laporte Co., 

 Ind.; St. Joseph's R., Kankakee R., Tippecanoe R., Lower Wabash 

 R., White R,, Ind.); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., ix, 1877, 27; 

 Jordan, Annals N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., xi, 1877, 373 (Rock Castle 

 R., Ky.); Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., i, 1877, No. 4, 107 (L. 

 Michigan, Fox R., Rock R., Wisconsin R., White R., Ohio R., Salt 

 R., Rock Castle R.); Jordan, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 55 

 (Mackinaw Cr., Woodford Co.; McLean Co.; Rock R. at Oregon; 

 Little Wabash, Effingham Co.; 111. R., Peoria; Crystal Lake, Mc- 

 Henry Co., 111.); Forbes, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 79 (Food 

 of Hyborhynchus notatus)] Jordan & Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 xii, 1878, 63 and 78 (Chickamauga R., Cumberland R.); Hay, Proc. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., hi, 1880, 502 (Corinth, Miss.; Catawba Cr., Miss.; 

 Noxubee R.); Hay, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., ii, 1882, 67 (Miss. R., 

 Yicksburg ; Big Black R., Yalabusha R, Tombigbee R., Chicka- 

 sawha R.); Jordan, Rep. Geol. Surv. Ohio, 1882, iv, 840 ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 159 ; Bean, Cat. Fish. Internat. 

 Fish Exhibition, London, 1883, 95 (Yellow Cr., Ohio); Jordan & 

 Swain, Proc IT. S. Nat. Mus., 1883, 248 (Cumberland R., Ky.). 

 Pimephales notatus Gilbeit, Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 200 (Salt Cr., 



Brown Co., Ind.). 



Hyborhynchus perspicuus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 179 



(Arkansan R.); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 231 (Arkansas R.). 



Hybognathus perspicuus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vii, 1868, 185. 



Hyborhynchus tenellus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1856, 179 



( Arkansas R.); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 231 (Arkansas R.). 



? Hyborhynchus puniceus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phil., 1856, 179 



(Canadian R. ); Girard, Pac. R. R. Surv., x, 1858, 232 (Canadian R.). 



Hyborhynchus superciliosus Cope, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1868, 



234 (Kanawha R.); Jordan, Man. Yert., 1st. ed., 1876, 276 ; 2d ed., 



1878,-289 ; 3d ed., 1880, 289 ; Jordan, Bull. IT. S. Nat. Mus., ix, 1877, 



27; Jordan, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 56 (Cache R. and 



Clear Cr.. Union Co.; Rock R., Ogle Co., 111.); Jordan & Gilbert, 



Synopsis Fish. N. A., 1883, 160 ; Jordan & Swain, Proc. IT. S. Nat. 



Mus., 1883, 248 (Cumberland R.). 



Habitat. — St. Lawrence River to Delaware ; Ohio Yalley and 

 Great Lake Regions, southward to Tennessee and Mississippi. 

 Very abundant 



The nominal species, H. superciliosus Cope, is, as has already 

 been noted by Jordan and Swain, but a spring form of the breed- 

 ing male of notatus. 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



A EEVIEW OF THE AMERICAN ELEOTRIDIN.E. 

 BY CARL H. EIGENMAN AND MORTON W. FORDICE. 



We have attempted to give in this paper the synonymy of the 

 genera and species of Eleotridinae found in the waters of 

 America, with analytical keys by which they may be distin- 

 guished. All the specimens examined belong to the Museum of 

 the Indiana University, most of them having been collected by 

 Professor Jordan. 



All the species are referred by Dr. Gunther to a single genus, 

 Eleotris. This group, however, seems to us rather of the nature 

 of a subfamily. An examination of the skeletons of some of the 

 species shows important differences, which we must regard as 

 having generic value. 



We place the American species in six genera, which may be 

 characterized as follows : — 



Analysis of Genera of Eleotridinae. 

 Common Characters. — Ventral fins separate, each with one 

 spine and five soft rays ; dorsal spines six or seven. 

 a. Vomer with a broad patch of villiform teeth ; isthmus very 

 narrow; gill-openings extending forward below to posterior 

 angle of mouth ; teeth villiform, the outer scarcely 

 enlarged ; vertebra?, 12 + 13 (dormitator) ; skull above with 

 conspicuous elevated ridges, one of these bounding orbit 

 above ; the orbital ridges connected posteriorly above by a 

 strong cross-ridge ; a sharp longitudinal ridge on each side 

 of the occipital, the two nearly parallel, the post-temporals 

 being attached to their posterior ends. Insertions of post- 

 temporals widely separated, the distance between them 

 greater than the rather narrow interorbital width ; the post- 

 temporal bones little divergent ; top of head depressed, 

 both before and behind the cross-ridge between eyes ; a 

 flattish triangular area between this and the little elevated 

 supraoccipital region ; preopercle without spines ; lower 

 pharyngeals with slender depressible teeth, and without 

 lamelliform appendages ; scales of moderate size, ctenoid. 



Gobiomorus. 1. 

 da. Vomer without teeth ; isthmus broad ; gill-openings scarcely 

 extending forward below to posterior angle of preopercle ; 

 skull without crests. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



b. Body and head entirely scaly. 



c. Lower pharyngeal teeth setaceous, the bones with an outer 

 series of broad flexible lamelliform appendages or teeth ; 

 body short and elevated, cyprinodontiform ; teeth 

 slender, those in the outer row scarce^ larger, and 

 movable; top ot head without raised crests, flattish, its 

 surface uneven; post-temporal bones rather strongly 

 diverging, the distance between their insertions about 

 half the broad flattish interorbital space ; no spine on 

 preopercle or branchiostegals ; scales large, ctenoid. 

 Species herbivorous. Dormitator. 2. 



cc. Lower pharyngeals normal, subtriangular, the teeth stiff, 

 villiform, none of them lamelliform ; scales of mod- 

 erate or small size ; body oblong or elongate. 

 d. Body moderately robust, the depth 4-5^ times in the 

 length to base of caudal ; cranium without distinct 

 median keel ; a small supraoccipital crest. 

 e. Post-temporal bones little divergent, not inserted 

 close together, the distance between their insertions 

 greater than the moderate interorbital space, or 3f 

 in length of head ; top of skull little gibbous ; 

 interorbital region sqmewhat concave or chan- 

 neled ; lower pharyngeals narrower than in Eleotris; 

 preopercle without spine ; scales very small, ctenoid, 

 about 100 in a longitudinal series. Vertebrae, 

 11 + 13 ; teeth moderate, the outer series enlarged. 



Guavina. 3. 

 ee. Post-temporal bones very strongly divergent, their 

 insertions close together, the distance between 

 them about § the narrow interorbital space, and 

 less than | the length of the head ; top of skull 

 somewhat elevated and declivous ; interorbital 

 area slightly convex transversely ; lower pharyn- 

 geals rather broad, the teeth bluntish ; preopercle 

 with partly concealed spine directed downward and 

 forward at its angle ; scales moderate, ctenoid, 45 

 to 60 in a longitudinal series. Vertebrae (pisonis) 

 11 + 15 ; teeth small. 1 Eleotris. 4. 



1 These characters of the skeleton are taken from Eleotris pisonis, and 

 have not been verified on other species. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



dd. Body very slender, elongate, the depth about ^ the 

 length to base of caudal ; post-temporal bones short, 

 strongly divergent, the distance between their inser- 

 tions about equal to the narrow interorbital space, or 

 about ^ length of head ; top of head with a strong 

 median keel, which is highest on the occipital region ; 

 no supraoccipital crest ; preopercle without spine ; 

 mouth very oblique ; the teeth small ; scales very 

 small, cycloid. Erotelis. 5. 



bb. Body naked on the anterior part ; head naked ; lower jaw 

 with four larger recurved teeth. Gymneleotris. 6. 



1. GOBIOMORUS. 



Gobiomorus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ii, 599, 1798 (dormitor, etc.). 

 PMlypnus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xii, 255, 1837 



(dormitator). 

 Lembus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 505, 1859 (maculatus). 

 Oobiomorus Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus , 1882, 571 (restricted 



to dormitator) . 



This genus is well characterized by the presence of vomerine 

 teeth, and b}^ the narrowness of the isthmus. Equally good char- 

 acters may be taken from the cranium, which is provided with 

 elevated, longitudinal and transverse ridges, which are not found 

 in any other of our genera of this t3 r pe. The species reach a 

 larger size than those of our other genera. 



The reasons for preferring the name Gobiomorus to PMlypnus 

 have been given in detail by Jordan and Gilbert (loc. cit.). 



Analysis of Species of Gobiomorus. 



Common Characters. — Body elongate ; the head somewhat 

 depressed ; body compressed behind. Scales ctenoid ; 55 to 66 in 

 a longitudinal series. Dorsal with "7 spines and 9 or 10 rays ; anal 

 rays I, 9 or 10; lower jaw considerably projecting; teeth in jaw 

 rather small, slender, recurved, the outer scarcely enlarged ; teeth 

 on vomer villiform,in a broad crescent-shaped patch ; gill-openings 

 extending forward to below posterior angle of mouth, the isthmus 

 being very narrow. No preopercular spine ; insertion of post- 

 li-mporals almost midway between occipital crest and edge of 

 skull ; parietals with a crest running from insertion of post- 

 temporal forward to just behind eye, where they are connected 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



by a thin, high, transverse crest ; supraocular with a short high 

 crest, extending from above front of eye back to posterior edge 

 of orbit, thence extending outward parallel with the transverse 

 crest, leaving a deep groove between them ; bony projections 

 before and behind e}^e prominent. Vert. 12+13 (dormitator)', 

 lower pharyngeals triangular, with slender teeth. 



a. Scales large, 55 in a longitudinal series ; 28 scales on median 

 line between occiput and front of spinous dorsal. Body 

 robust ; depth 4 in length ; head 2f. D. VI-1, 9 ; A. 1-10 ; 

 crests on skull very high. Lateralis. 1. 



aa. Scales moderate, 57 to 66 in longitudinal series ; head 3 to 3^ 

 in length ; depth 5 to 6. 

 b. Scales in median line from occiput to front of spinous dorsal 

 26 ; head 3^ in length ; transverse frontal crest not con- 

 tinuous. D. VI-1, 9 ; A. I— 10 ; 57 to 60 scales in a longi- 

 tudinal series. Maculatus. 2. 

 bb. Scales on median line from occiput to spinous dorsal 35 ; 

 transverse frontal crest continuous, 

 c. Scales medium, 57 to 60 in a longitudinal series; head 3£ 

 in length; depth 5^. D. VI-1, 9; A. 1-9; crests on 

 skull moderate. Dormitator. 3. 

 cc. Scales smaller, 66 in a longitudinal series ; depth 6 in 

 length ; head 3. D. VI-1, 10. Longiceps. 4. 



1. Gcbiomorus lateralis. 



Philypnus lateralis Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1860, 123 (Cape 

 San Lucas); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 232 (West 

 Coast Mexico); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 368 

 (Cape San Lucas); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 372 (Colima); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 377 

 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 380 (San 

 Jose). 



Eleotris lateralis Giinther, iii, 122, 1861 (Cape San Lucas). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of America, from San Jose to Panama. 



This species represents on the Pacific Coast the G. dormitator 

 of the Atlantic. It is readily distinguished by its shorter body, 

 larger scales, and by the greater development of its cranial 

 crests. 




70 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



2. Gobiomorus maculatus. 



4 Lembus maculatus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 505, 1859 (Andes 

 of Ecuador); Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1860, 236 (Ecuador, 

 Esmeraldas). 

 Meotris lembus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., iii, 121, 1861 (Ecuador). 



Habitat. — Streams of Ecuador. 



This species is known to us only from the descriptions of Dr. 

 Giinther. 



3. Gobiomorus dormitator. 



Guavina Parra, Descr. Dif. Piezas Hist. Nat. Cuba, tab. 39, fig. i, 1787 

 (Havana ; fide Poey). 



Gobiomorus dormitor Lacepede, nist. Nat. Poiss., ii, 599, 1798 (from 

 a drawing by Plumier). 



Gobiomorus dormitator Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 572 (name only). 



Platycephalus dormitator Bloch, Syst. Ichth., Plate xii, 1790 (Mar- 

 tinique); Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 60, 1801. 



Meotris dormitatrix Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. ii, 1829 (Antilles); 

 Oken, Naturgeschichte, vi, 173, 1836; Giinther, iii, 119, 1861 (Bar- 

 badoes, Jamaica, Mexico). 



Philypnus dormitator Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 255, 1837 (Porto Rico, 

 San Domingo, Martinique); Poey, Mem. de Cuba, ii, 381, 1856 (Cuba); 

 Girard, U. S. and Mexican Boundary Survey, 27, plate xii, fig. 13, 

 1859 (Rio Grande); Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 395, 1868 (Cuba); Poey, 

 Enum. Pise. Cub., 128, 1875 (Mexico, Rio Grande, San Domingo, 

 Martinique, Jamaica); Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 236 (name only); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 631, 1882. 



Batrachus guavina Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 44, 1801 (based 

 on Guavina of Parra). 



Habitat. — Rio Grande to Martinique, in fresh waters. 



This species is generally common in the streams of the West 

 Indies and Eastern Mexico. We follow later writers in changing 

 the incorrectly spelled dormitor of Lacepede to dormitator. 

 According to Poey, the type of Parra 's Guavina, still preserved 

 in the Museum at Madrid, has teeth on the vomer, and is therefore 

 a Gobiomorus, not a Guavina. The many specimens examined 

 by us are from Havana. 



4. Gobiomorus longioeps. 



Eleotris longiceps Giinther, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., 1864, 151 ; Giinther, 

 Fish. Central America, 1869, 440 (Nicaragua). 



Habitat. — Lake Nicaragua. 



This species is known to us only from Dr. Giinther's description. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 71 



2. DOBMITATOR. 



Prochilus Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. i, 1817 (mugiloides), (preoccupied). 

 Dormitator Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1862, 240 (gundlachi = 



maculatus). 



This genus is not adopted by Dr. Gunther, but it seems to us 

 well founded, its peculiarities in dentition being important. The 

 name Prochilus at first given to this group is preoccupied by 

 Prochilus of Illiger, a genus of mammalia, as well as by the 

 prebinominal Prochilus of Klein, which belongs to the Poma- 

 centridae. 



The known species of this type are very closely related and 

 should perhaps be regarded as geographical varieties of a single 

 one. 



Analysis of the Species of Dormitator. 



Common Characters. — Body short, robust ; head broad and flat 

 above ; mouth little oblique ; maxillary reaching to anterior 

 margin of orbit ; lower jaw little projecting ; no teeth on vomer ; 

 scales large, ctenoid, 30 to 33 in a longitudinal series ; skull 

 much as in Eleotris, but everywhere broader. D. VII-1, 8 ; A. I, 

 9 or 10 ; no spine on preopercle ; post-temporals inserted midway 

 between occipital crest and edge of skull ; supraoccipital crest low. 



a. Scales large, becoming much smaller on belly ; 25 series on a 

 median line from base of ventrals to vent; 18 series across 

 breast from pectoral to pectoral ; 18 on a median line from 

 posterior border of orbit to dorsal. Interspace between 

 dorsals equal to orbit. Highest anal ray If in head ; highest 

 dorsal ray 1^ in head. 33 scales in a longitudinal series. 



Maculatus. 5. 

 aa. Scales larger than in maculatus, not much smaller on belly ; 

 18 series on a median line from ventrals to vent; 13 series 

 from pectoral to pectoral; 16 on a median line from pos- 

 terior border of orbit to front of soft dorsal ; interspace 

 between dorsals less than diameter of orbit. Highest anal 

 ray 1| in head ; highest dorsal ray equals head. 31 scales 

 in a longitudinal series. Latifrons. 6. 



5. Dormitator maculatus. 



Sciama maculata Bloch, "Ichth., tab. 299, f. 2," 1790 (West Indies); 



Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 80, 1801 (copied). 

 Eleotris maculatus Gunther, iii, 112, 1861 (West Indies ; Trinidad ;. 

 Demerara); Gunther, Fish. Cent. Am., 440, 1869 (Anamahal). 




*72 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Dormitator macidatus Goodc & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 236 



(Gulf of Mexico). 

 Eleotris mugiloides Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 226, 1837 (Martinique ; 



Surinam). 

 Eleotris somnolentus Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1858, 169 



(Rio Grande) ; Girard, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Survey, 28, pi. 12, f. 



1-3, 1859 (Rio Grande); Giinther, iii. 557, 1861 (Cordova). 

 Dormitator somnolenta Poey, "Repert., ii, 168," 1868; Poey, Enum. 



Pise. Cuben., 128, 1875 (Cuba). 

 Eleotris omocyaneus Poey, Memorias, ii, 269, 1860 (Havana). 

 Dormitator omocyaneus, Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuben., 296, 1868 (Cuba); 



Poey, Enumer. Pise. Cuba, 128, 1875 (Cuba). 

 Eleotris gundlacfri Yoey, Mem., ii, 272, 1860 (Cuba). 

 Dormitator gundlacM Poey, Syn. Pise. Cuben., 396, 1868 (Cuba); 



Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 128, 1875 (Cuba). 

 Dormitator lineatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 271 



(Savannah). 



Habitat. — East Coast of America; South Carolina, Texas, 

 Louisiana, south to Surinam ; chiefly in fresh water. 



As Cuvier and Valenciennes have identified the type of Bloch's 

 Scieena maculata with their Eleotris mugiloides, we adopt the 

 latter name for this species. We are unable to distinguish the 

 somnolentus of Girard from maculatus, and the omocyaneus of 

 Poey is certainly the same. Gill's lineatus is also, doubtless, a 

 young example of the same type. 



We find nothing (unless it be the greater height of the fins) in 

 the description of Eleotris gundlachi Poey, by which it can be 

 distinguished from Dormitator maculatus. Poey 's type was about 

 8 inches in length, and its large size ma}' account for the slight 

 differences indicated. 



The single specimen studied by us is from the West Indies. 

 6. Do'mitator latifrons. 



Eleotris latifrons Richards, "Voy. Sulph. Fishes, 57, pi. 35, f. 4-5," 



1837 (Pacific Coast Central America). 

 Eleotris maculata Giinther, iii, 112, 1861 (Guayaquil), (not Scia'na 



maculata of Bloch). 

 Dormitator sp., Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 83 (Colima). 

 Dormitator maculatus Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 232 (Salina Cruz); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S.Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 368 (Cape San Lucas); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 372 (Colima); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 

 377 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 380 

 (Cape San Lucas); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., 1882, 

 108 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 632 

 (Mazatlan). 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 73 



Dormitator microphthalmus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1863, 

 170 (Panama). 



Habitat. — Pacific Coast of Central America, from Cape San 

 Lucas southward to Panama. 



This species is abundant on the Pacific slope of Mexico and 

 Central America. It differs from D. maculatus in few respects, 

 and should, perhaps, be regarded as a variety of the latter. They 

 have, however, not yet been shown to intergrade. 



3. GUAVINA. 



Guavina Bleeker, Esquissed'unSyst. Nat. Gobioid.,302, 187 4 {guavina). 



This genus is externally distinguished from Eleotris only by 

 the absence of preopercular spine, and by the smaller size of the 

 scales. The skulls in the two genera are, however, strikingly 

 different, and we think that the two groups should be regarded 

 as generically distinct. We know only one species of this genus. 



Analysis of Species of Guavina. 



a. Body stoutish, oblong; mouth oblique; maxillary reaching 

 opposite middle of eye, its length about 3^ in head. 

 Lower jaw little projecting. Teeth in broad bands, the 

 outer ones enlarged. Scales on head imbedded ; those on 

 body very small, ctenoid on sides, cycloid on back and 

 belly, 100 to 110 in a longitudinal series. Isthmus very 

 broad. Pectorals reaching to middle of spinous dorsal. 

 Highest anal ray If in head. Head 3| in length to base of 

 caudal ; depth 4£ to 5£. D. VI, I, 10 ; A. I, 9 or 10. Post- 

 temporals inserted twice as far from occipital crest as in 

 Eleotris pisonis. Parietals ending in a sharp point 

 behind. Preopercular spine none ; a broad thin extension 

 on the lower limb of preopercle taking its place. Lower 

 pharyngeals triangular, normal, rather narrow ; the teeth 

 small. Vomer without teeth. Guavina. 7. 



7. Guavina guavina. 



Eleotris guavina Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 223, 1837 (Martinique) ; 

 Giinther, iii, 124, 1861 (Demarara) ; Poey, "Kepert. i, 337, 1867 ;" 

 Poey, Syn. Fish. Cuba, 395, 1868 (Cuba) ; Poey, Enum. Pise. Cuba, 

 127, 1875 (Cuba). 



Habitat — East Coast of tropical America, West Indies, south 

 to Surinam, in fresh waters. 



6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



This species is abundant in the streams of Cuba. The num- 

 erous specimens examined by us were obtained by Prof. Jordan 

 in the Rio Almendares, near Havana. In life this species may 

 be readily distinguished from Eleotris pisonis, which abounds in 

 the same waters, by the bright cherry -colored edgings to its 

 ventrals and anal. 



4. ELEOTRIS. 



Eleotris "Gronow, Mus. Iehthyol., 16," 1757 (Non-binominal). 



Eleotris Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichtli., 65, 1801 {pisonis). 



Eleotris Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 216, pi. 356, 1837 (gyrinus). 



Culius Bleeker, Esquisse d'un Syst. Nat. des Gobioides, 303, 1874 (fuscus). 



As Eleotris pisonis possesses the preopercular spine assumed 

 to characterize the genus Culius, we place the latter name in its 

 synonymy. In large specimens of Eleotris pisonis, this spine is 

 somewhat concealed by the flesh, but it may always be found by 

 dissection. The four following species resemble each other very 

 closely, and probably agree in the structure of the skeleton, but 

 in this regard we have been able to examine only Eleotris pisoyiis. 



Analysis of Species of Eleotris. 



a. Body comparatively robust ; head broad, depressed ; body 

 compressed; mouth oblique, lower jaw little projecting; 

 maxillary reaching to below eye ; scales ctenoid, 46 to 61 

 in longitudinal series. Dorsal rays, VI— I, 8 ; anal rays, I, 

 7 or 8. Vomer without teeth. Gill-openings extending 

 forward below to angle of preopercle ; isthmus broad. 

 Preopercle with a spine projecting downward and forward 

 at its angle. Post-temporals slender, widely diverging, 

 inserted very near the scarcely evident occipital crest. 

 Skull highest in the middle, very broad and short ; bony 

 projections in front of and behind eye prominent. Verte- 

 brae about 10 + 14 (pisonis). Lower pharyngeals subtri- 

 angular, rather broad, with comparatively coarse teeth. 

 b. Scales large, about 48 in longitudinal series ; depth 4.) in 

 length to base of caudal ; head 3£. D. VI, 9 ; A. 1,8; 

 teeth rather small, those of the inner series in each jaw 

 largest. Amblyopsis. 8. 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELriHA. 15 



66. Scales moderate, about 60 in lateral series. D. "VT-I, 8; A. 



I, 7 or 8. 



c. Body comparatively robust ; depth 4 to 5 in length ; teeth 



in jaws all small, subequal. Pisonis. 9. 



cc. Body comparatively slender ; depth 6 in length ; head 3^. 



d. Teeth in jaws all small, subequal. JEquidens. 10. 



dd. Teeth in jaws unequal, some of those in the outer row 



enlarged. Belizana. 11. 



8. Eleotris amblyopsis. 



Culius amblyopsis Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, 473 (Surinam); 

 Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 236 (Gulf of Mexico); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 610 (Charleston); 

 Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 619 (Pensacola); Jor- 

 dan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 944. 



Habitat. — Atlantic coast of America, from Charleston to Suri- 

 nam. 



Only three specimens of this species are yet known. It is well 

 distinguished from its congeners by its larger scales. 



9. Eleotris pisonis. 



Eleotris capite plagioplateo, etc. "Gronow, Mus. Ichth., ii, n. 168," 

 1757. 



Gobius pisonis Gmelin, Syst. Nat. 1206, 1788 (based on Eleotris of 

 Gronow). 



Eleotris pisonis Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichth., 68, 1801 (based on 

 Eleotris of Gronow). 



6 obius pisonis Turton, Syst. Nat., 751, 1807 (South America). 



Gobius amorea Walbaum, Artedi Piscium, iii, 205, 1792 (based on 

 Eleotris of Gronow). 



Eleotris gyrinus Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 220, 1837, PI. 356 (Mar- 

 tinique, San Domingo, Surinam); Girard, U. S. and Mexican Boun- 

 dary Survey, 28, PI. xii, figs. 11-12, 1859 (Rio Grande); Giinther, 

 Catalogue Fish, in Brit. Mus., iii, 122, 1861 ; Poey, "Repert., i, 336," 

 1867; Poey, Syn. Pise. Cubens., 395, 1868 (Cuba); Poey, Enumer. 

 Pise. Cub., 127, 1875 (Cuba); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1882, 571 (name only); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 

 631, 1883. 



Eleotris picta Kner & Steindachner, Abhandl. bayer. Ak. Wiss., 1864, 

 18, PI. 3, fig. 1 (Rio Bayano, near Panama). 



Culius per nig er Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1870, 473 (St. Martins). 



Habitat — Both coasts of Central America, north to Cuba and 

 Texas, chiefly in fresh waters. 




76 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



The Gobius pisonis of Gmelin and its synonym, Gobius amorea 

 of Walbaum, arc based on the Eleotris of Gronow. This is un- 

 doubtedly identical either with Eleotris gyrinus or Guavina gua- 

 vina. To us there is little doubt that the former species was the 

 one intended, as the phrase " P. D. prior declinata 6 radiata ; 

 secunda equalis, priori vicina " applies well to the Eleotris gyri- 

 nus and not at all to the Guavina guavina, in which species the 

 second dorsal is much larger than the first. We therefore adopt 

 the name Eleotris pisonis instead of Eleotris gyrinus. 



We have examined numerous specimens of this species from 

 the Rio Almendares, near Havana. All these possess the antrorse 

 preopercular spine supposed to distinguish the genus Culius from 

 Eleotris. In the larger ones it is partly hidden by the encroach- 

 ment of the skin and from this has arisen the erroneous suppo- 

 sition (of Giinther and others) that this species is one in which 

 the spine is wanting. 



A comparison of the figure and description of Eleotris picta, 

 given by Kner and Steindachner, shows no constant point of 

 difference whatever. We therefore regard picta as a synonym of 

 pisonis. 



The Culius perniger of Cope is evidently identical with pisonis, 

 Professor Cope being the first describer of the species who did 

 not overlook the preopercular spine. 



10. Eleotris aequidens. 



Eleotris sp., Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 83 (name only). 



Culius cequidens Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. IT. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 461 

 (Mazatlan); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 372 

 (Colima); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 380 (Cape 

 San Lucas, San Jose); Jordan & Gilbert, Bull. U. S. Fish Com., 1882, 

 108 (Mazatlan). 



Habitat. — Streams about the Gulf of California, south to Colima. 



This species is known to us from the original description by 

 Jordan and Gilbert ; it is said to be abundant in the streams of 

 Sinaloa and Lower California. 



11. Eleotris belizana. 



Culius belizanus Sauvage, "Bull. Soc. Philom. Paris, 1879, 16 

 (reprint)" (Belize); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 

 462 (foot-note). 



Habitat. — Belize. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 77 



This species is known to us only from a foot-note by Jordan 

 and Gilbert, referring to the description by M. Sauvage. It is 

 said to differ from E. sequidens, by having the teeth of the outer 

 row enlarged. 



5. EROTELIS. 



Ereotelis Poey, Memorias de Cuba, ii, 273, 1861 (valenciennesi = smaragdus") . 



This genus differs from the others in having the scales small, 

 cj^cloid, the body long, slender, and the tail lanceolate. In form 

 this genus differs strikingly from Eleotris, its nearest ally. It 

 presents a strong analogy to Gobionellus, differing from Eleotris 

 much as the latter does from Gobius. 



But one species seems to be known. 



Unlike the other Eleotridinse, this is strictly marine, inhabiting 

 the coarse algse on the coral reefs. 



Analysis of Species of Erotelis. 



a. Body long, slender; depth about ^ the length to base of 

 caudal; head broad, depressed; mouth large, very oblique, 

 the lower jaw projecting. Maxillary reaching to below centre 

 of eye, its length, 2^ in head. Vomer without teeth ; teeth 

 on jaws small, equal. Scales small, cycloid, about 100 in a 

 longitudinal series, largest on caudal peduncle. Caudal fin 

 lanceolate ; caudal peduncle slender, 3 in length of body. 

 D. VI- 1, 9; A. 1-9. Gill-openings extending forward to 

 below centre of opercle. Post-temporals diverging, inserted 

 near occipital crest, which is obsolete. Skull uneven and 

 rather thick. Preopercular spine absent. Vertebrae 10+15. 

 Pectorals reaching past middle of first dorsal. Dorsal and 

 anal high ; highest anal ray 1^ in head. Smaragdus. 12. 



12. Erotelis smaragdus. 



Eleotris smaragdus Cuvier & Valenciennes, xii, 231, 1837 (Cuba); 



Guichenot, "Poiss. in Ramon de la Sagra, Hist. Cuba, 130," 1855 ; 



Giinther, Cat. iii, 123, 1861 (Cuba); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 



1884, 141 (Key West). 

 Erotelis valenciennesi Poey, Mem. de Cuba, ii, 173, 1861 (Cuba); Poey, 



Syn. Pise. Cub., 396, 1868 (Cuba); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 127, 



1875 (Cuba). 




78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Habitat. — Florida Keys to Cuba ; strictly marine, not ascending 

 rivers. 



This species is rather abundant on the coast of Cuba. A single 

 specimen was obtained by Professor Jordan at Key West. It 

 reaches a length of about a foot. It is confounded by Cuban 

 fishermen with the Esmeralda (Gobionellus), although it lacks 

 the emerald-colored prominences on the tongue. From this con- 

 fusion the not appropriate name of smaragdus has come to be 

 given to this species. This Poey has proposed to change to 

 Valenciennesi ; but this change the law of priority forbids. 



6. GYMNELEOTRIS. 



Gymneleotris Bleeker, Esquisse d'un Syst. Nat. des Gobioides, 304, 1874 



(seminuda). 



The distinguishing mark of this genus seems to be the absence 

 of scales on the head and anterior part of the trunk. Nothing 

 is known either of the genus or of its single species, except 

 what is contained in Giinther's description of the latter. 



Analysis of the Species of Gymneleotris. 



a. Head and trunk naked ; tail covered with small scales ; head 

 f of total length ; maxillary extending >to below anterior 

 margin of orbit. Teeth in upper jaw in a narrow band ; the 

 lower has four somewhat larger and recurved teeth in 

 front ; palate toothless. Fin-rays not prolonged. Pectorals 

 not quite extending to origin of second dorsal. Ventrals 

 much shorter than pectoral. D. VII, 11 ; A. 9. 



Seminuda. 13. 



13. Gymneleotris seminuda. 



Eleotris seminuda, Giinther, Proc. Zoological Soc, London, 18C4, 24, 

 "Plate iv, f. 2, 2 a" (Pacific Coast of "Panama) ; Giinther, Fish. 

 Central America, 441, 1869. 

 Gymneleotris seminuda Bleeker, Esquisse d'un Systema Nat. Gobi- 

 oides, 304, 1874. 



This species is known from the description by Dr. Giinther of 

 a small specimen in the British Museum. 




1885.1 natural sciences op philadelphia. 79 



List of Nominal Species of Eleotridin^;, arranged in Chrono- 

 logical Order, with Identifications. 



(Tenable Specific Names are in Italics.) 



Nominal Species. Date. Identification. 



Gobius pisonis Gmelin, 1788, Eleotris pisonis. 



Sciama macnlata Bloch, 1790, Dormitator maculatus. 



Gobius amorea Walbauni, 1792, Eleotris pisonis. 



Gobiomorus dormitor Lacepede, 1798, Gobiomorus dormitator. 

 Platycephalus dormitator Blocb & Schneider, 1801, " " 



Batrachus guavina Bloch & Schneider, 1801, " 



Eleotris mugiloides Cuvier & Valenciennes, 1837, Dormitator maculatus. 



Eleotris guavina Cuvier & Valenciennes, 1837, Guavina guavina. 



Eleotris gyrinus Cuvier & Valenciennes, 1837, Eleotris pisonis. 

 Eleotris smaragdus Cuvier &, Valenciennes, 1837, Erotelis smaragdus. 



Eleotris latifrons Richardson, 1837, Dormitator latifrons. 



Eleotris somnolentus Girard, 1858, Dormitator maculatus. 



Lembus maculatus Gunther, 1859, Gobiomorus maculatus. 



Philypnus lateralis, Gill, 1860, Gobiomorus lateralis. 



Eleotris omocyaneus Poey, 1860, Dormitator maculatus. 



Eleotris gundlachi Poey, 1860, " " 



Erotelis valenciennesi Poey, 1861, Erotelis smaragdus. 



Dormitator lineatus Gill, 1863, Dormitator maculatus. 



Dormitator microphthalmus Gill, 1863, Dormitator latifrons. 



Eleotris longiccps Gunther, 1864, Gobiomorus longiceps. 



Eleotris seminuda Gunther, 1864, Gymneleotris seminuda. 



Eleotris picta, Kner & Steindachner, 1864, Eleotris pisonis. 



Culius amblyopsis Cope, 1870, Eleotris amblyopsis. 



Culius perniger, Cope, 1870, Eleotris pisonis. 



Culius belizanus Sauvage, 1879, Eleotris belizana. 



Culius cequidens Jordan & Gilbert, 1881, Eleotris sequidens. 



Recapitulation. 

 In this review we have admitted 13 species and 6 genera of 

 Eleotridinse as probably valid. We give here a list of the species. 

 The general distribution of the species is indicated by the letters 

 "W. (Western Atlantic, West Indies, etc.) ; U. (Coast of United 

 States); P. (Eastern Pacific, Mazatlan, Panama, etc.); G. (Western 

 slopes of South America). 



Subfamily Eleotridinse. 



Genus 1. GOBIOMORUS Lacepede. 



1. Gobiomorus lateralis Gill (P.). 



2. Gobiomorus maculatus Giinther (G.). (Species unknown to us.) 



3. Gobiomorus dormitator Lacepede (W. U.). 



4. Gobiomorus longiceps Giinther (W.). 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Genus 2. DORMITATOR Gill. 



5. Dormitator maculatus Bloch (U. W.). (Possibly more than one species in our 



synonymy.) 



6. Dormitator latifrons Richardson (P.). (Possibly a variety of maculatus.) 



Genus 3. GUAVINA Bleeker. 



7. Guavina guavina Cuvier and Valenciennes (W.). 



Genus 4. ELEOTRIS ( Gronow) Bloch & Schneider. 



8. Eleotris amblyopsis Cope (U. \V.). 



9. Eleotris pisonis Gmelin (W. P.). (Possibly two species contained in our 



synonymy.) 



10. Eleotris aequidens Jordan and Gilbert (P.). 



11. Eleotris belizana Sauvage (W.). (Unknown to us.) 



Genus 5. EROTELIS Poey. 



12. Erotelis smaragdus Cuvier and Valenciennes (U.W.). 



Genus 6. GYMNELEOTRIS Blocker. 



13. Gymneleotris seminuda GUnther (P.). (Unknown to us ) 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



ENTOMOLOGIA HONGKONGENSIS — REPORT ON THE LEPIDOPTERA OF 

 HONGKONG. 



BY F. WARRINGTON EASTLAKE. 



The province of Kwangtung, to which the island of Hongkong 

 properly belongs, has long been celebrated throughout the Chinese 

 Empire for the beauty and great variety of the insects to be found 

 within its borders. The soil is, in most parts, exceptionally rich, 

 and teems with an ever-busy world of animal life. But, great as 

 is the fecundity of the larger part of the province, there are, here 

 and there, sand} 7 , arid wastes, which even the untiring labor of 

 the native agriculturists fails to make yield more than the scan- 

 tiest of crops. This is especially the case along the southeastern 

 littoral. Here the formation is igneous and the rocks granitic, as 

 a rule, with occasional intrusive traps and seams of trachytic 

 porphyry. The island of Hongkong, in particular, consists 

 mainly of hornblendic granite, of which silica, alumina, and 

 various oxides of iron are the principal components. The rock 

 is, at the same time, composed throughout of materials unusually 

 susceptible to climatic influences, particularly to the action of 

 heavy rains. The decomposed and disintegrated rock makes an 

 admirably fertile soil, especially in the ravines, valleys, and low- 

 lands ; the hills, however, being constantly exposed to all sorts of 

 weather, are signally barren and verdureless. Tufts of " arrow- 

 grass," long, trailing mosses, coarse ferns and hardy flowering- 

 plants are sparsely scattered over the mountain-slopes; pines, firs, 

 and a few other resinous trees cover the less-exposed portions, 

 but the heavy rains annually sweep down quantities of this local 

 vegetation into the sea. In such places insect life is rare. And 

 yet the entomology of Hongkong, although so small an island, is 

 unusually rich and worthy of attention. This is chiefly due to 

 the fact that the island is connected with the famous Lo-fan Shan 

 — a small range of mountains some fifteen miles north of the 

 thriving market-town of Shek Lung (" Stone Dragon,") and about 

 seventy miles east of Canton. Starting from the westernmost 

 spur of this range, a limestone formation runs to the north and 

 northwest. Here the flora is both beautiful and luxuriant ; 

 flowering plants laden with tempting pollen cover the hillsides, 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



and insects find in the verdant groves a veritable paradise. The 

 Lo-fan Mountains besides this, probably owing to their majestic 

 scenery and rich flora, have for more than ten centuries enjoyed 

 a reputation of great sanctity. In the deep caves and mountain 

 forests of the Lo-fan, hermits, sages and priests have lived and 

 taught their disciples from time immemorial ; while, in accordance 

 with both Buddhistic and Taoistic precepts, all animals, birds, 

 reptiles, insects, and even the delicious trout of the mountain- 

 streams have been kept from harm and allowed to breed undis- 

 turbed. Passing through the thickly populated districts of Pok-lo 

 and Tong-kun, a low, undulating range of hills connects the Lo- 

 fan with the mountainous country opposite Hongkong. And 

 hence it comes that the entomology of the island is so extensive 

 and varied. 



Hongkong lies between 22° 9' and 22° 1' north latitude, and 

 114° 5' and 114° 18' east longitude ; the island is, therefore, just 

 inside the tropics, but near enough to the boundary to enjoy fine, 

 temperate weather from September to April. To a considerable 

 extent, the insular fauna shows close relationship with the fauna 

 of the tropics ; and yet there can be no doubt that some few of 

 the tropical features are not characteristic of Hongkong. To this 

 category belong notably Python 7'eticulatus, Gray, the rock python 

 of India, and the venomous cobra, Naja tripudians, Merr.; very 

 possibly, also Macrochlamys superlita, Morelet — a fine land snail. 

 The Lepidoptera, however, are very distinctty related to the 

 entomic fauna of the Himalayas, East India, and the Malayan 

 Archipelago. During a stay of several years in Hongkong, the 

 writer devoted much time and attention to the study of the 

 insular fauna, and formed large collections of the lepidoptera and 

 terrestrial mollusks. In the spring of 1883, the writer published 

 a work on Hongkong, in which a short list of the diurnal Lepi- 

 doptera was given. But this list was necessarily incomplete, as 

 the writer had not enjoyed any opportunity of subjecting his 

 collections to competent scientific inspection and classification. 

 Since then, thanks to several important works which have 

 appeared on the Insect Fauna of various parts of Asia, the writer 

 has been enabled to compile the following list in a far more 

 thorough manner. Outside of Donovan's " Insects of China " — 

 which will be mentioned later on — no work has ever been published 

 on the entomology of China, and, beyond a few chapters in the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 83 



journals of passing naturalists, the enumeration and description 

 of the Hongkong insects have been entirely neglected. Despite 

 this fact, a rich field there awaits the collector and the scientist, 

 as the beetles, butterflies and moths are often of exceptional size 

 and great beauty. An Attacus (male) in the writer's possession 

 measures no less than eleven and one-half inches across the wings. 

 Of beetles alone — according to Frauenfeld — Mr. John Bowring 

 (son of Governor Bowring, of Hongkong), collected more than 

 twelve hundred species, many of which were new to science. 



In compiling the following list, the entomology of various other 

 localities throughout the province of Kwangtung has been taken 

 into special consideration. Notably that of the other islands in 

 the Ladrones group of the Lo-fan Mountains — where some time 

 was spent in collecting — and of Macao. In the latter port the 

 writer passed several months, and succeeded in making valuable 

 collections, thanks to the courtesy of Governor da Graca, who 

 did everything in his power to facilitate the work. A complete 

 catalogue and description of the collections then made have since 

 been embodied in a work entitled " Fauna Macanensis," recently 

 forwarded to the Portuguese Government. It is somewhat diffi- 

 cult to keep the entomology of Hongkong entirely distinct from 

 that of adjacent islands and mainland. As has already been stated, 

 the hills opposite Hongkong practically introduce the insect fauna 

 of the entire Kwangtung Province. At times, months or even 

 years may pass before the reappearance of a certain species ; and 

 then a favorable wind may waft it unexpectedly into the flower- 

 gardens of Victoria, there, mayhap, to completely puzzle the 

 brains of some ardent entomologist. In the following list, how- 

 ever, all doubtful species have been so far as possible excluded, 

 and only such admitted as have been identified by scientists of 

 acknowledged ability. 



Reference has been made to the following works : — 



Donovan, A. The Insects of China, 2d ed., 1842 (Westwood). 

 Frauenfeld. Die Novara Expedition, Sitzungsber. d. mathem. 



naturw. CI. K. K. Acad. d. Wissensch., Wien, xxxv, 1859, 10. 

 Butler, A. Lepidoptera Heterocera in the British Museum, Pts. 



ii, iii, 1878. 

 Elwes, H. J. Butterflies of Amurland, North China and Japan. 



Proc. Zoolog. Soc. London, 1881. 




84 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



Distant, W. L. Rhopalocera Malayana, Pts. i-v, London and 



Penang, 1882. 

 Pryer, H. A Catalogue of the Insects of Japan, Trans. Asiatic 



Soc. of Japan, 1883. 



Donovan's " Insects of China " is a mere primer on the vast 

 subject included in its title, and very incorrect at that. Since his 

 day, entomological nomenclature has undergone many changes, 

 and even the classification of genera and species has not been left 

 undisturbed. For the sake of completeness, however, it is per- 

 haps advisable to append the meagre list of Lepidoptera, which 

 Donovan notes as coming from Hongkong. It includes but fifteen 

 butterflies and four moths : — 



Papilio paris, Linn. 

 Papilio agenor, Linn. 

 Papilio agamemnon, Linn. 

 Papilio epius, Jones. 

 Papilio demetrius, Linn. 

 Pieris hyparete, Linn. 

 Pieris (Iphiaa) glaucippe, Linn. 

 Pieris (Thestias) pyrene, Linn. 

 Argynnis eurymanthus, Drury. 

 Cynthia orithya, Linn. 

 Cynthia cenone, Linn. 



Cynthia almana, Linn. 

 Limenitis leucothoe, Linn. 

 Limenitis eurynome, Linn. 

 Thecla mmcenas, Jones. 



Sesia hylas, Linn. 

 Glaucopis polymeria, Linn. 

 Phalana attacus. 

 Saturnia atlas, Linn. 

 {Euaemialectrix, Linn., doubtful.) 



In Mr. H. J. Elwes' list I find further one butterfly mentioned 

 as coming from Southern China, which I have never met with in 

 Hongkong. This is Thaumantis howgua, Westwood, named prob- 

 ably after that rich Cantonese merchant so well known twenty 

 or thirty years ago. Those marked with an asterisk (*) in the 

 following list are contained in the writer's collection, but several 

 others in this collection have still to be identified. 



^Papilio xuthus. Linn, (xuthulus, Linn.). 



This insect occasionally finds its way to Hongkong, but is 

 tolerably numerous around Canton and further north, and abun- 

 dant in Japan. The imago invariably appears under the xuthulus 

 form in the spring. The female is dimorphic, it feeds on various 

 kinds of Citrus, especially C. trifoliata. 



*Papilio maackii, Mon. (Dehaani, Feld.). 



Very frequent in the Lo-fan Mountains ; less so in Hongkong. 

 Found also in North China and Japan. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 85 



*Papilio helenus, Linn. 



Rare ; has been taken also in Shanghai and Nagasaki. 



*Papilio pamnon, Linn. 



This gorgeous butterfly is not uncommon about May, and con- 

 tinues to visit the island from time to time until September. 



*Papilio memnon, Linn. 



This is one of the largest of the Hongkong Lepidoptera. The 

 markings of the female are totally different from those of the 

 male, which is altogether a smaller insect. Also Southern Japan. 



♦Papilio sarpedon, Linn. 



Quite common throughout the year. North China and Japan. 

 'Papilio demetrius, Cramer. 



Occasionally seen in autumn. Common in Japan. 

 *Papilio paris, Linn. 



Abundant. A beautiful insect, always to be found near Hyliscus: 

 rosa sinensis. 



Papilio clytia, Linn. (var. dissimilis, Swainson). 

 *Papilio panope, Linn. 



Papilio polytes, Linn. 

 *Papilio agenor, Linn. (var. alcanor, Cramer). 

 *Papilio bianor, Cramer. 

 *Pieris rapae, Linn, (crucivora, Butler). 



One of the commonest butterflies ; found all the year round. 

 In markings and size it is very variable. As a rule, it feeds on 

 cultivated Cruciferse. 



*Pieris napi, Linn, {megamera, Butler; melete, Men.), 

 Pieris canidia, Sparrm. 



*Tereias multiformis, H. Pryer {Hecabe, Linn.; mandarina, Del'Orza; kccabeoides, 

 Men.; sinensis, Sue J Mariesi, Butler; anemone, Felder; connexiva, Butler; 

 tesiopc, Mon. ; sari, Horsfield). 



Thanks to the scientific investigation of Mr. H. Pryer, it is 

 now demonstrated that this butterfly is found in nearly every 

 country, and that the long list of varieties do not constitute 

 special species, as most of them interbreed without difficulty. 

 It is abundant throughout China and Japan. 




86 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Eurema blanda, Loisduval. 

 *Delias pasithoe, Linn. 

 *Delias hierte, Hiibner. 

 *Lyoaena baetica, Linn. 

 *Lycaena lysimon, Hiibner. 



Both of these are common throughout the greater part of the 

 year. 



*Neptis aceris, Lep. (intermedia, Pryer). 



Abundant, and very variable in size. 



Vanessa charonia, Drury. 

 ♦Vanessa callirhoe, Fabricius. 



Quite common, but a very beautiful insect. Feeds on several 

 Urticacese. 



*Vanessa cardui, Linn. 



This butterfly has a very wide spread, and comes early in spring 

 and stays throughout the summer. It is quite as abuudant as 

 the foregoing. 

 •Argynnis niphe, Linn. 



Not uncommon, but very local. 



*Argynnis eurymanthus, Drury. 

 *Melanitis leda, Linn. 

 •Mycalesis gotama, Moore. 

 *Mycalesis perseus, Fabricius. 



Mycalesis perseus, var. vitala, Moore. 

 -Mycalesis igoleta, Felder. 

 "Mycalesis medus, Fabricius. 

 -■■ Mycalesis mineus, Linn. 

 -Ypthima baldus, Fabricius. 



Ypthima asterope, Klug. 



Ypthima philomela, Joh. 



The first of these three is very abundant, but varies remarkably 

 in size, markings and colorations. I am inclined to believe that 

 the latter two are one and the same species. 



Discophora celinde, Stoll. 



Junonia lemonias, Linn. 

 ' Junonia laomedia, Linn. 

 *Junonia Wallacei. 



Junonia hierta, Fabricius. 



Junonia hierta, var. cebrene, Trim. 



Junonia orithya, Linn. 

 ■Junonia asterie, Linn. 



Junonia almana, Linn. 

 *Precis iphita. 



s 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 8t 



*Ergolis ariadne, Linn. 

 *Athyma perius, Linn. 



Athyma leucothoe, Linn. 



Athyma sulpitia, Cram. 

 'Athyma kasa, Moore. 

 *Euthalia puseda. 

 *Lethe Europa, Fabrieius. 

 *Danais genutia, Cramer. 

 *Danais tytia, Gray. 



This and the foregoing insects attain unusual dimensions in the 

 warm climate of Hongkong. The latter is found also in Japan, 

 but is invariably smaller in size. 



*Danais limniace, Cramer. 



Danais similis, Linn. 

 *Danais plexippus, Linn. 

 *Catopsilia philippina, Cramer. 



Catopsilia pyranthe, Linn. 

 *Hebomoia glaucippe, Linn. 



Hebomoia erocale, Cramer. 



Ixias pyrene, Linn. 

 'Miletus chinensis, Felder. 



This pretty member of the Lycsenidse is said to be confined to 

 Hongkong, but I have taken it in several places on the mainland. 



*Euplcea superbus, Herbst. 

 *Euploea midamus, Linn. 



The latter is much more frequent than the former. It varies 



remarkably in size ; more so, perhaps, than any other butterfly 



haunting the gardens of Hongkong. 



*Hesperia flava, Murray. 



Common throughout China and Japan. 



*Pamphila mathias, Fabr. 

 Pamphila maro, Fabr. 

 Plesioneura folus, Cramer. 

 Hipparchia eumea, Drury. 



I have, in the foregoing list, not made any attempt at correct 

 classification. The field, so far as the province of Kwangtung, or 

 indeed southern China, is concerned, is a virgin one. Much 

 remains still to be done, as the greater part of those who collect, 

 <or have collected, in Southern China, have neglected to give 

 careful data as to the localities, seasons, etc. By far the most 

 important part of the little work hitherto done is thus untrust- 

 worthy or often downright misleading. 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



The following list of moths includes merely the most important 

 species ; from personal observation I believe that more than three 

 hundred species can be identified as coming from Hongkong : — 



Chcerocampa suffusa, Walker. 



* Chcerocampa pallicosta, Walker. 



* Acherontia medusa, Butler. 

 Diludia discistriga, Walker. 

 *Diludia increta, Walker. 

 Northia ten iris, Butler. 



* PMssama vacillans, Walker. 

 Spilarctia subcarnea, Walker. 



*La>lia sinensis, Walker. 

 Pantana ampla, Walker. 

 *Acontia bimacula, Walker. 



(Acontia maculosa '.') 

 *Boarmia repulsaria, Walker. 



* OpJiiusa aretotcenia. 



* Tropica artemis, Butler. 



In conclusion, it is necessary to state that the list of butterflies 

 is by no means exhaustive. There are some five or six doubtful 

 species which the writer has thought best not to include; and, 

 besides these, there are one or two others that may, very probably, 

 turn out to be species novae. 




1885.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 89 



March 31. 



Mr. George W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 



Thirt3'-four persons present. 

 The following was presented for publication : — 

 " Remarks on Lanius robustus Baird, based on an examination 

 of the type specimen," by Leonhard Stejneger. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



DESCRIPTION OF A NEW SPECIES OF THE GENUS CYANOCORAX. 

 BY ALAN F. GENTRY. 

 Cyanocorax Heilprini, n. sp. 



Sp. Char. — Above light brown, with decided purplish shade. 

 Front of head from a line directly back of eye, sides of head and 

 neck, together with the throat, black ; frontal plumes bristly and 

 recurved ; spot of purplish-blue at base of lower mandible. Crown, 

 occiput and hind-neck lilac or light violet. Breast and abdomen 

 brown, with deeper purplish reflections than on the rest of the 

 body, and becoming lighter towards the vent. Tail concolorous 

 with back above, brownish underneath, and broadly tipped with 

 white ; under tail-coverts white. Tibiae ashy ; bill and legs black. 

 Length, 14-25 ; wing, 6-75 ; tail, 6-31 ; tarsus, 2-75 ; bill, 1-50. 



Habitat.' — Rio Negro. A single specimen, marked <$, and part 

 of the T. B. Wilson Collection of the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences. 



Mr. R. B. Sharpe, in his Catalogue of the Birds of the British 

 Museum, vol. iii, divides the genus into two sections, which are 

 respectively characterized by the presence or absence of white 

 tips to the tail-feathers. While properly coming under the first 

 di vision by reason of the existence of tips, it differs very markedly 

 from the species therein included, the breast and abdomen being 

 purplish brown and dusky instead of white, and the blue or white 

 spot above, as well as below the eye, being wanting. But in the 

 close resemblance which obtains between the upper and lower 

 surfaces of the body, there is a manifest relationship to the group 

 with uniform tail-feathers. 



The species is dedicated to my friend, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, 

 of Philadelphia, in recognition of his services to science. 




'885. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 01 



BEMABKS ON LANIUS BOBUSTUS (Baird), BASED UPON AN EXAMINATION 

 OF THE TYPE SPECIMEN. 



BY LEONHARD STEJNEGER. 



In April, 1843, there was referred to the Academy, for publica- 

 tion, a paper by Dr. William Gambel, entitled " Descriptions of 

 some New and Rare Birds of the Rocky Mountains and Cali- 

 fornia," where he had been traveling at the instance of Mr. 

 Nuttall. The Committee on Publication, of which Mr. Cassin 

 was a member, recommended it, and consequently it was printed 

 in the Proceedings of that year (vol. i, pp. 259-262). 



We make at once the remark, that the Academy at that time 

 had not received specimens, as will appear from the note on page 

 258. On the contrary, the transfer of Gambel's collection was not 

 made before 1847 (of. Proc. Phila. Acad., iii, p. 346). During that 

 very year several large collections were also received and arranged 

 for exhibition by Cassin and Gambel, viz. : the Rivoli collection, 

 Boucier's collection, Wilson's collection, Cassin's collection of 

 West African birds, altogether nearly 18,500 specimens! 



The history of the specimen of Lanius, which afterwards 

 became the type of Cassin's elegans and Baird's robustus cannot 

 (from the catalogues and records of the Academy, as I am kindly 

 informed by Prof. A. Heilprin) be traced further back than 1857, 

 when it was described by Cassin in the Proceedings as L. elegans. 



It will be remarked, however, that Gambel already, in his paper 

 mentioned above, enumerates L. elegans as a bird observed by 

 him in California. But it is evident that he does not refer to any 

 particular specimen, and that the birds referred to elegans were 

 nothing but L. excubitorides. He says : " This species, of which 

 but a single specimen is known to ornithologists [viz., the type 



in the British Museum], I found abundant in California 



in the adults the breast is pure white ; in the young blended with 

 dark brown, like our common species, except the throat and vent, 

 which are white." In his later, more elaborate paper, published 

 in the same year as his collection was turned over to the Academy, 

 Gambel realizes the fact, and simply calls the species met by him 

 L. ludovicianiis with which he identifies excubitorides (Proc. 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Phila. Acad., iii, 1846-47, p. 200). Nor is mention made in this 

 paper of any particular specimen. 



In his special report upon the increase of the ornithological 

 collection during 1847, Cassin, while mentioning the incorpora- 

 tions of the collection made by Gambel in California, enumerates 

 Lanius elegans as among the species " especially interesting," 

 but no allusion to any specimen is made. 



It is not before ten years later that we encounter a description 

 and special notice referable to the specimen in question, when 

 Cassin in his " Notes on the North American species of Archi- 

 buteo and Lanius " (Proc. Phila. Acad., ix, 1857, ! p. 213), gives 

 the characters of Lanius elegans Swainson, which evidently are 

 taken from the bird now before me. Regarding the distribution 

 of this species, he says : " This appears to be exclusively a 

 western and northern species, the only specimens of which that 

 we have ever seen are in the Museum of the Philadelphia Academy. 

 Our specimen was brought from California by Dr. Gambel." It 

 will be noted that he speaks of several specimens in the Academy's 

 Museum. 



Prof. Baird, in the "Birds of North America," page 327, 

 simultaneously describes the same specimen under the heading 

 of Golly rio excubitoroides. He refers to it as " Collected in 

 California by Dr. Gambel," and remarks : " This bird has been 

 referred to L. elegans of Swainson, but seems to differ in some 

 appreciable points." 



The specimen was figured on plate lxxv. 



A more detailed description of the specimen is given by the 

 same author in his " Review of American Birds," page 444 

 (1866), but he seems to have become doubtful as to the origin of 

 the specimen, since the locality is given as " California?" and in 

 the text he says that it is " labeled as having been collected in 

 California by Dr. Gambel." Though " by no means satisfied that 

 the bird is the true Lanius elegans of Swainson," the author 

 introduces it under the heading Gollurio elegans. It may be 

 remarked that no mention is made of other specimens. 



Next we find the specimen mentioned in Cooper's " Ornith- 

 ology of California," edited by Prof. Baird. On page 140 is 



1 Published in 1858 ; the paper was recommended for publication at the 

 meeting, Dec. 29, 1857, cf. p. 210. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 93 



given a woodcut representing the head and one of the 

 secondaries. Of the locality is said : u Hab. — Of original speci- 

 men, uncertain, but somewhere in western North America." 



In Dr. Coues' "Key" (1872), for the lirst time is seriously 

 doubted the North American origin of the specimen. He says 

 (page 125): "To this species [C. ludovicianus] I must also 

 refer the G. elegans of Baird, considering that the single speci- 

 men upon which it was based represents an individual peculiarity 

 in the size of the bill. This specimen is supposed to be from 

 California, but some of Dr. Gambel's, to which the same locality 

 is assigned, were certainly procured elsewhere, and it may not 

 be a North American bird at all." 



The " History of North American Birds," by Baird, Brewer 

 and Ridgway, contains little additional information, except that 

 the bird here is made the type of the new name Collurio ludo- 

 vicianus, var. robustus, since it had been shown by Sharpe and 

 Dresser that the type of L. elegans Sw. was referable to some 

 Old World species, erroneously said to have come from the 

 " Fur-countries." The authors also assert that they " have no 

 reason to discredit the alleged localitj' of the specimen." 



Not being able to reconcile the statement of Prof. Baird, that 

 the specimen in question " is very decidedly different from any 

 of the recognized North American species," with the reduction 

 of it to a variety under ludovicianus, I, in 1878, named the bird 

 Lanius bairdi (Arch. Math. Naturv., iii, p. 330), a synonym 

 which, together with many others, Dr. Gadow has seen fit to 

 entirely ignore in the eighth volume of the " Catalogue of the 

 Birds in the British Museum " (1883). 



Finally, we have to mention the position taken by Dr. Coues, 

 who, in his " Birds of the Colorado Valley " (p. 546) " under the 

 circumstances, declines to take further notice of the supposed 

 species in the present work." "The circumstances" alluded to 

 seem to be the doubt as to the correctness of the locality attributed 

 to Gambel's specimen, as expressed already in his " Key." We are 

 compelled, however, to take exception to a statement contained 

 in the sentence commencing his account, though, as will be 

 found later on, we agree with him as to the result. He says : 

 "But Dr. Gambel, in 1843 (Proc. Phila. Acad., 1843, 261), 

 described a shrike, supposed to be from ' California,' which he 

 identified with Swainson's bird, and called L. elegans. 1 '' The 

 fact is, however, that the species which Gambel, in 1843, 




94 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



described I. c, not only was supposed to be, but also really was, 

 from " California,'' being excubitorides, collected there by himself, 

 and the statement should correctly read thus : " But Cassin 

 and Baird, in 1858, described a shrike, supposed to be from 

 ' California,' " etc. 



The latest account of the bird is found in the eighth volume 

 of the "Catalogue of Birds in the British Museum" (1883), p. 243, 

 by Dr. Gadow, solely based on Baird, Brewer, and Ridgway 's work. 

 The name is given as Lanius robustus, and the habitat, California, 

 is not questioned. 



This finishes the literary history of the specimen, which may 

 be tabulated thus : — 



1858. Lanius elegans Cassin, Pr. Phila. Acad., ix, 1857, p. 213 (nee Swains., 



1831). 

 1858. Collyrio excubitoroides Baird, B. North Am., p. 327 (part). 

 1858. Collyrio elegans Baird, B. North Am., pi. lxxv, fig. 1. 

 1866. Collurio elegans Baird, Rev. Am. B., p. 444 ; Baird and Cooper, Orn. 



Califom., i, p. 140(1870). 



1872. Collurio ludovicianus Cones, Key, p. 125. 



1873. Collurio ludovicianus var. robustus Baird, Am. Natural., vii, 1873 (p. 



608); B., Br. and Bidgw., Hist. N. Am. B., i, p. 420 (1874). 



1878. Coues, B. Color. Vail., i. p. 545. 



1878. Lanius bairdi Stejneger, Archiv Math. Naturv., iii, 1878, pp. 326, 



330 ; Ld., ibid., iv, 1879, p. 263. 

 1880. Lanius ludonirianus robustus Ridgw., Pr. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, p. 



175 ; Ld., Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 21, p. 20 (1881). 

 1883. Lanius robustus Gadow, Cat. B. Brit. Mus., viii, p. 243. 



We shall* now examine the specimen itself, which, by the 

 courtesy of the authorities of the Academy, I have before me. 



It is mounted and in a state of preservation which, though not 

 very good, still makes it sufficient for all practical purposes. No 

 label is attached to it, but on the underside of the stand is written 

 in Cassin's handwriting : — 



Dr. Gambel 



Lanius elegans 



Sw. Faun. Bor. Am. 



I). \.6o 



fig^" Observe larger bill 

 J. C. 



No number or reference to a catalogue is found anywhere, nor 

 does the Academy seem to possess any special record of the 

 specimen. The inscription is in ink, except the name, which is 

 written with a lead-pencil. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 95 



It will be seen that the locality is not inscribed on the stand, 

 and that now, at least, the specimen is not " labeled as having 

 been collected in California." 



The U. S. National Museum possesses a very rich collection of 

 North American Shrikes, and the Old World forms are also 

 tolerably well represented, partly due to the incorporation of my 

 own collection of Shrikes, of which formerly I made a specialty. 

 I have compared the type of L. robustus with these, the result 

 being as follows : — 



The statement of Professor Baird, that it is "very decidedly 

 different from any of the recognized North American species," 

 is eminently confirmed. The material in the Museum has been 

 doubled many times during the twent} r years since he wrote the 

 above, but still the type remains unique in its peculiar characters. 

 I need not repeat here his excellent description, but think it 

 proper to sum up the most diagnostic features of the bird, mainly 

 to counteract any erroneous impression that might arise, caused 

 by the quotation above from Dr. Coues' " Key," in which it is 

 asserted " that the single specimen represents an individual pecu- 

 liarity in the size of the bill." Lanius robustus is not only 

 remarkable for its large bill, but also for its general dark color, 

 total absence of light superciliary stripe, the ashy wash of the 

 lower parts, the gray loral spot, the restriction of the white on 

 the tail-feathers, particularly at the base, and the peculiar distri- 

 bution of black and white on the secondaries, so well illustrated 

 by the figure in Cooper and Baird 's Californian Ornithology 

 quoted above. 



Of all the Old World members of the restricted subgenus 

 Lanius, the present bird only needs comparison with a few dark- 

 colored species. In many respects it resembles L. algeriensis 

 Less., particularly in the shade of the gray on the back, the 

 absence of a white superciliary stripe, the ashy under surface ; 

 but the wing speculum is much larger, the secondaries differently 

 colored, and the tail with less white, not to speak of the difference 

 in the size of the bill. In the latter respect our bird agrees 

 rather closely with a specimen of a Lanius collected by H. B. 

 Tristram at Gennesareth, March, 9, 1864, but it is darker both 

 above and beneath, and the pattern of secondaries and tail is 

 different. This specimen from Palestine seems referable to the 

 form which Gadow says is " intermediate between L. fallax and 




96 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



L. uncinatus" the latter being a big-billed island form from 

 Socotra, off the coast of Eastern Africa, and, judging from his 

 remarks (Cat. B. Brit. Mus., viii, p. 248) some of the specimens 

 from that region east of the Mediterranean may be even more like 

 the t}'pe of robustus. The conclusion of my comparison is that 

 the latter is more closety allied to some of the forms inhabiting the 

 regions south and east of the Mediterranean, than to any of the 

 known Nearctic species, but that it is entirely distinct from any 

 other species known. 



We shall now shortly review the evidence bearing upon the 

 origin of the type : 1. Gambel himself nowhere directly and par- 

 ticularly refers to the specimen in question ; 2. His collection was 

 turned over to the Academy four years after his original paper 

 was published ; 3. During the same year the Academy received 

 more than 18,000 specimens, a great many of which were from the 

 Old World ; 4. Not before ten years after is any direct allusion 

 made to the specimen by Cassin ; 5. No indication of it having 

 been collected in California, can now be found attached to the 

 bird or the stand ; 6. We have Dr. Coues' testimony that " some 

 specimens of Dr. Gambel's, to which the same locality (California) 

 is assigned, were certainly procured elsewhere " ; 7. So far as the 

 evidence goes, the bird is nearer related to some Old World forms 

 than to those from North America. The sum of all this would 

 indicate that the specimen in all probability is not North Ameri- 

 can, and enough reasons are given to explain how the mistake may 

 have easily originated. It would not be human, if in receiving 

 and putting on exhibition more than 18,000 specimens in one year 

 some such mistakes did not happen. I therefore think we would 

 be fully justified in excluding Lanius robustus from the list of 

 North American birds. 



But it should always be borne in mind, that notwithstanding the 

 apparent conclusiveness of the above remarks, the question is not 

 fully solved before we have pointed out where the species really 

 occurs, since there is a bare possibility that some day it may be 

 discovered not far from its alleged habitat in spite of all our 

 arguments. L. robustus is very distinct from the other American 

 Shrikes, but not so much so, that its eventual discovery in any 

 part of the Nearctic region would cause a great surprise as far 

 as this point is concerned. The large bill and the dark color 

 suggest some southern island, and explorers of islands off our 

 southwest coast should be on the look-out. 




PROG, ACAD, NAT, SGI, PHILA, 1885, 



PLATE 



ScnbnEr Del. 



SCRIBNER ON MELICAE. 




! 






1885.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 97 



April 7. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



The Primary Conditions of Fossilization. — Mr. Charles Morris 

 made a communication in answer to the query : " Why are there 

 no fossil forms found in the strata preceding the Cambrian ? " In 

 mineral conditions there is little difference between the two sets 

 of strata. Yet the Cambrian contain numerous fossils, while 

 the preceding strata are barren in this respect. This Cambrian 

 life, however, does not come in the succession we might naturally 

 expect, and it ma}' be desirable to consider the succession which 

 actually occurs. 



Of Protozoa there is not a trace, if we reject the doubtful 

 Eozob'n. Yet vast numbers of Protozoa must have existed, and 

 if there were any calcareous- or siliceous-shelled forms, as at 

 present, they must have left some indication in the rocks. The 

 Metazoa do not begin with the lowest forms, but the different 

 orders make their appearance in very odd conjunction. Thus, at 

 the very beginning, we have a great variety of tribolites, in con- 

 junction with a much smaller variety of annelides and mollusks, 

 while there are very scanty traces of sponges, echinoderms and 

 the lower crustaceans. The most advanced form of these animals, 

 the trilobite, greatly outnumbers all its contemporaries. 



At a considerably later date two widely separated forms come 

 together into existence. The low order of Hydrozoa makes its 

 first appearance as the Graptolite, and at a closely related date 

 appear Cephalopods, the highest order of Mollusks. The Silurian 

 era opens with an abundance of Graptolites and a considerable 

 increase of Cephalopods. It is much later ere any clear trace of 

 Vertebrates appears, and this in what is certainly not their lowest 

 form. 



The appearance of land animals presents a somewhat similar 

 phenomenon. No land Vertebrates appear below the Carboniferous 

 rocks, yet it is now known that insects existed well down in the 

 Silurian, proving that the conditions necessary for land life had 

 very long prevailed ere Vertebrates left the sea for the land. 



It is impossible to believe that these fossils represent truly 

 either the beginning or the actual succession of life upon the 

 earth. Such an idea would be utterly inconsistent with the 

 development theory, and even under the creation hypothesis it is 

 incredible that life could have begun with such a confused mixture 

 of high and low. No one, for instance, can accept what the rocks 

 seem to teach, that advanced forms of Mollusks and Crustaceans 

 came into existence before the Ccelenterata. It may be taken for 




98 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



granted that we have but fragments of the primeval life, and these 

 fragments associated in a manner that cannot indicate the actual 

 life conditions. 



These earliest animals are mainly burrowing, crawling, or sta- 

 tionary forms. There is very little indication of the abundance 

 of swimming life which now crowds the ocean and must have 

 then done so. We find only minute swimmers, such as Pteropods 

 and Phyllopods, while if the Trilobites were able to swim it must 

 have been but a sluggish movement. There is no indication of 

 the existence of rapid and powerful swimmers. 



Yet there are several reasons for believing that swimming 

 animals existed in abundance. The rapid swimmer has an advan- 

 tage in food-getting and in escape from danger over the slow- 

 moving surface animals. Natural selection, therefore, must have 

 tended to produce swimming forms. 



The facts of embryology yield evidence to the same effect. 

 Nearly or quite all ocean animals begin life as swimmers. The 

 stationary forms become fixed only after their larval period is 

 passed. This fact indicates that at some early period the ances- 

 tors of our present fixed forms were free swimmers. 



But a stronger proof of this is found in the condition of the 

 animals whose fossil forms we possess. They are all covered with 

 protective armor. It is, indeed, to the preservation of this armor 

 that we owe our knowledge of their existence. We find no weapons 

 of offense. Everything is defensive. Even the trilobite, which 

 had nothing to fear from the other known forms, was clothed in 

 a strong coat of mail, and had acquired the habit of rolling him- 

 self into an impenetrable ball. There can be no question that he 

 had foes, stronger than himself, against whom he found defense 

 only in his chitinous armor. Yet of these predatory foes we 

 know nothing. 



All other preserved forms tell the same story. We would 

 know nothing of them but for their hard parts, and these hard 

 parts are all protective. The soft-bodied annelid saved itself 

 by burrowing in the mud. The mollusk clothed itself in a firm 

 limy covering. Of the remaining forms each wore some kind of 

 defensive armor. Many of them doubtless needed defense 

 against the trilobites, but the foes of the trilobite are missing. 



If we ascend higher in the rocks, the same tale is told. The 

 Hydrozoa, which had probably swum the earlier seas in forms 

 allied to our soft-bodied Medusae, become stationary and protected 

 as Graptolites. And simultaneously the powerful Cephalopods 

 make their appearance as surface forms, clothed in a heavy and 

 cumbrous defensive armor. If they formerly had mastery of the 

 seas, as we may conjecture, they had been driven from it by some 

 more powerful and rapid foe. 



In fact all the preserved forms may be looked upon as to some 

 extent degenerated types of life. They very probably represent 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 99 



earlier free-moving forms, which have been driven to wear heavy 

 armor for protection from stronger foes, and have been forced by 

 the weight and the character of this armor to take up a life on the 

 ocean bottom, either as stationary, crawling, or sluggishly swim- 

 ming forms. 



Where are the foes who have forced these forms of life into 

 degenerated conditions ? They are indicated in the rocks by no 

 hard parts, either offensive or defensive. They probabl}' needed 

 no protective armor, they had no internal hard skeletons, and the 

 only trace of early offensive weapons are found in the dubious 

 Conodonts, of the lower Silurian strata. Not until undoubted 

 fish teeth appear do we find unquestionable weapons of offense. 

 And there is no indication of active predatory swimmers until we 

 find the earliest fish remains. We may conceive that fishes had 

 so increased as to sweep the seas of any overabundance of food 

 forms, and had begun to actively prey upon each other. Then 

 they developed the protective armor to which they had previously 

 driven their prey. And this armor increased in thickness and 

 strength until the remarkable bony plates of the Devonian fishes 

 were produced. But in all probability several successive types 

 of life obtained mastership of the ocean, each superior form 

 driving all earlier forms to seek protection. Of these the fish 

 was the last and most powerful, and it cleared the open seas of 

 all competitors. 



Only from some such cause as this can we understand the sud- 

 den appearance of the Cambrian Orthoceratites, with their 

 bulky and clumsy shells, which certainty would never have been 

 developed except through pressure of sheer necessity. This 

 armor must have greatly diminished the motor powers of the 

 cephalopod ; it was solely protective in character, and it is 

 impossible to impute it to any cause save that of defense from a 

 powerful predacious foe. All the early lords of the ocean had 

 successively to clothe themselves in strong armor, or to vanish 

 from existence as more powerful forms appeared. 



There are strong indications, therefore, that in addition to the 

 armored forms preserved in the rocks, there was abundance of 

 naked forms of life, mainly swimmers, and pursuing a predatory 

 mode of life. If we pass backward through the succession of 

 fossil forms, it is to find the armored types decreasing in numbers 

 and variety. We seem to gradually approach a period in which 

 the naked swimming forms were greatly in excess. This may 

 have been preceded by a period in which there were no armored 

 forms. In such a case, though life may have been as abundant as 

 now, it could not have been fossilized. Such ma} r possibly have 

 been the pre-Cambrian life condition. 



There could have been no era of life, indeed, in which preda- 

 tory forms did not exist. But there may have been a long period 

 during which animals were incapable of secreting armor. The 




100 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



organic functions are certainly not all of primitive origin. Many 

 of them may have been the product of ages of slow development. 

 Such may have been the case with the development of glands suit- 

 able for the secretion of chitin, carbonate of lime, and the other 

 protective substances. We know that it was at a late date in the 

 history of life when animals first began to secrete an internal 

 hard skeleton. The need of protection undoubtedly caused a 

 more rapid evolution of the power to secrete an external hard 

 covering, and yet life may have long prevailed before this 

 adaptation was gained. The mantle of the bivalve mollusks, for 

 instance, with its glands for the secretion of a limy shell, cannot 

 have been a primitive feature of molluscan life. So the chitin- 

 forming glands of the crustaceans may have been a late product of 

 evolution. It is possible that, in the early days of life, all the 

 mineral ingredients of food were directly excreted. It is equally 

 possible that the power of transforming food elements into hard 

 substances did not exist. The development of dermal glands, 

 necessary to the secretion of external skeletons, teeth, etc., must 

 have occupied a considerable time, and its completion may have 

 taken place but shortly before the opening of the Cambrian 

 period. 



If such was the case, the preceding life must have been of a low 

 order, and of small dimensions. Animals might have grown to 

 considerable size with cartilaginous skeletons, but scarcely without 

 teeth or other hard weapons of offense, of which no trace remains. 

 It may be that the earlier forms of life were in great part swim- 

 ming animals, that they waged constant war upon each other, and 

 that in time, through the action of natural selection, the power of 

 secreting defensive armor was evolved.. As this armor grew 

 denser and heavier the swimming powers became abridged, and 

 the armored animals were successively carried to the bottom, and 

 forced into slow-moving or stationary habits of life. 



In corroboration of this idea is the fact that the power of 

 secreting an internal skeleton appeared only at a much later date. 

 It has never been developed in the Invertebrates, except in late 

 cephalopods, and in all these animals the external armor has 

 necessarily been utilized for muscular attachment. The superi- 

 ority of the vertebrates is largely due to the fact that their 

 muscular attachment has alwa3's been internal, a method which 

 gives much greater flexibility and power of movement. Yet for 

 a long period after the appearance of vertebrate life the basis of 

 muscular attachment was merely a rod of cartilage. Even the 

 great Devonian fishes, with their dense epidermal plates, were 

 destitute of internal bone, except that in a few cases they possessed 

 ossified vertebral arches. The next evidence of power to secrete 

 internal bone is found in certain Carboniferous Ganoids, which 

 possessed a mere ring of bone in the external portion of their 

 vertebrae. It cannot reasonably be argued that bony skeletons 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP 1'HILADELPHIA. 101 



would have been of no use to these ancient swimmers. The pos- 

 session of bony skeletons by all the Teleostei shows that this 

 adaptation is a valuable one. Modern Sharks and Ganoids, while 

 often cartilaginous, frequently possess completely ossified verte- 

 brae. Thus we have reason to believe that the absence of internal 

 bone in the most ancient fishes came from the fact that the con- 

 ditions for the secretion of such bone had not yet been devel- 

 oped. 



This leads to one further conclusion. Though a cartilaginous 

 basis of muscular attachment might suffice for large swimming 

 animals, it would not answer for large forms of terrestrial life. 

 In these a greater rigidity was necessary. Therefore land verte- 

 brates of large size could not appear until after the power of 

 forming a bony skeleton had been attained. And it is significant 

 that shortly after the appearance of bone in fish skeletons the 

 Batrachians make their appearance in the rocks. We know that 

 the land had been adapted for animal life for long ages before, 

 and peopled b}- insects and scorpions, and possibly by forms of 

 life of which we have no comprehension. It is very probable that 

 fishes had long used the land as a temporary place of residence 

 and feeding-ground. This we may safely infer from the existence 

 of fossil Dipnoi, with their powers of breathing air or water at 

 will. Yet it was impossible that large land vertebrates could 

 appear until the bone-making power was fully developed. Archee- 

 gosaurus one of the earliest air-breathers, possessed but a ring 

 of bone in its vertebra?, like the Carboniferous Ganoids. But in 

 all the remaining Carboniferous Batrachians a fully ossified skel- 

 eton appears, and this has been ever since an absolute requisite 

 of all land vertebral life, and of all ocean vertebrates except a few 

 survivals of the antique types. 



Thus we reach the general conclusions that fossilization of 

 animal forms was not possible until, after a long period of evolu- 

 tion, the power of secreting hard external coverings was gained ; 

 and that the existence of large land vertebrates was not possible 

 until, after a still longer period of evolution, the power of secret- 

 ing internal bony skeletons was developed. If these conclusions 

 be well founded, many of the conditions of early life must remain 

 forever unknown to us, and we cannot hope to recover more than 

 a fragment of the antique fauna. 



April 14. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches," by Samuel 

 H. Scudder, was presented for publication. 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Hibernation and Winter Habits of Spiders. — The Rev. Dr. 

 McCook remarked that the effect of a low temperature upon 

 spiders was observed in the cases of several young specimens of 

 Theridion tepedariorum. They hung on a few short lines to the 

 plastered wall of a brick out-building, the plaster being laid 

 directly on the brick, forming a very cold surface. The spiders 

 were protected from the wind and snow, but wholly exposed to 

 the frost. January 14 (1885), with thermometer ranging from 

 20° to 25° above zero (Fahrenheit), the spiders were hanging 

 motionless. When touched by the tip of a pencil the}" dropped 

 down in the usual manner of their kind, holding on by the out- 

 spun threads which reached a length of over one foot. They 

 ascended to their perch afterward, and crawled over the roof a 

 little ways. 



At a temperature of 18 - 6° the}' again were able to drop from 

 the perch. January 19, with thermometer ranging from 17 '5° to 

 20°, they seemed less active — one, when touched, dropping about 

 one inch, another six inches. Four hours thereafter they were 

 suspended in the same position. As the natural habit of the 

 creature is to ascend in a moment or two after disturbance, this 

 shows that the frost had somewhat affected the normal energy. 

 But one of them, being gently lifted on the finger, moved its legs 

 and very slowly began to ascend. Five hours thereafter it was 

 at its perch against the roof. These spiders, at this temperature, 

 with some variations (January 21), moved their position, one 

 passing along the angle of the roof, a distance of four feet. This 

 change of site was probably caused by the annoyance which the 

 experiments produced. 



February 11, the thermometer stood at zero at the City Signal 

 Service Office ; in West Philadelphia, where his observations were 

 made, the temperature was lower. On the 12th, the Signal Ser- 

 vice reported 1° above zero ; at his house it was below zero. On 

 this day he removed from its position one of the specimens, a 

 young female about two-thirds grown, and placed it in his library 

 where the temperature was summer heat. She was laid upon the 

 table in the sun. The legs were drawn up around the cephalo- 

 thorax in the usual " hunched " way when torpid or feigning 

 death. There was a slight and regular pulsation of the feet. In 

 less than ten minutes, upon being touched, she stretched forth 

 her legs and began to move slowly over the paper upon which 

 she had been placed. When touched, her motion was much 

 accelerated, and she began vigorously to perambulate her bounds, 

 anchored to and pulling out after her the usual drag-line. When 

 lifted up on the tip of a pencil she spun out a long thread, to the 

 end of which she hung in the little basket-like structure of silken 

 cords which he had elsewhere described. Indeed, her action was 

 in ever}- respect normal, and showed a remarkably sudden and 

 complete revival of activity after so long an exposure to such 

 extreme cold. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 103 



February 26, a younger specimen, about one-third grown, 

 hanging in a crevice in the site above described, when touched 

 and lightly pressed down, slowly moved its legs and began to 

 struggle back to its perch. The thermometer ranged from 20° 

 to 25° ; on the day before the range was from 21° at 7 A. M., to 

 28° at 11 A. M. 



During the six weeks over which these observations extended, 

 the temperature was unusually low for this vicinity ; for a great 

 part of the time, the thermometer stood below freezing point, and 

 several times reached zero. The month of March following was 

 unusually severe, the thermometer frequently reaching winter 

 temperature. On the first of April, however, the above-named 

 spiders, and others of a younger brood, were in their webs hale 

 and active, drawn out by the first soft days of spring. It would 

 seem, therefore, that the hibernation of spiders (of this species, 

 at least), is not accompanied with a great degree of torpidity; 

 that they preserve their activity and spinning habit while exposed 

 to cold ranging from freezing point to zero (Fahrenheit) ; that 

 after long and severe exposure, the recovery of complete activity 

 when brought into a warm temperature is very rapid, almost 

 immediate ; and that on the return of spring, even after a pro- 

 longed and severe winter, they at once resume the habits of their 

 kind. 



In all the above specimens the abdomens were full, indicating 

 perfect health. Other spiders hung upon their webs with shriv- 

 eled abdomens, quite dead, among them one of his specimens, a 

 male, who died during the course of the observations. A Pholcus 

 phalangioides hung thus dried up, holding with a death-grip to 

 her web b} r the two fore-pairs of legs which supported the cephalo- 

 thorax in a position parallel to the plane of the horizon, while 

 the long abdomen hung down at right-angles thereto, and the 

 third and fourth pairs of legs were drooped downward and back- 

 ward. He could not determine that these and other spiders 

 perished by the cold. The living individuals were all characterized 

 by the plump abdomen, as though there had been little or no ab- 

 sorption of tissues for nourishment of life. There appeared to 

 be no growth during hibernation. 



The same facts hold good as to the winter habits of Orb- 

 weavers. The young survive the winter in the admirably ar- 

 ranged cocoons provided by maternal instinct. But earl}' in the 

 spring many adults of both sexes are found nearly full-grown, 

 who have also safely weathered the cold months. He had, at 

 various times in midwinter, collected examples of Epeira strix, 

 and had found the species adult in spring. Specimens of Strix 

 may be frequently taken during the winter months from rolled 

 leaves, within which they have weathered our hard frosts. These 

 rolled leaves also serve for nests during summer. Dr. Geo. Marx 

 had informed him that, on the capacious Government grounds in 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Washington city, lie often sees such curled leaves suspended 

 conspicuously amid the verdureless branches, and had learned to 

 recognize them easily as the winter-quarters of this species. It 

 of course follows that, either from purpose or by the accidental 

 unwrapping of the threads during continual journeys back and 

 forth trailing her drag-line behind her, the spider prevents the leaf 

 from falling. 



A vast colony of Epeira vulgaris inhabits the boat-houses 

 grouped around the inlet wharf at Atlantic City. Dr. McCook 

 stated that he had once visited this colony, May 22, 1882. The 

 season had been a remarkably backward one, cold, and very rainy. 

 The trees on the island had not yet leaved ; insect life had 

 scarcely appeared ; in short the season had advanced little further 

 than the first of May in ordinary years. The inlet colony, how- 

 ever, had already appeared in large numbers, and had swung their 

 orbs between the timbers of the houses and the piles which sup- 

 ported them. These were of various sizes, full-grown, half-grown, 

 and young several weeks out of the cocoons. All the cocoons — 

 which were thickly laid along the angles of the joists and cor- 

 nices — were empty. The number of young spiders was, however, 

 remarkably small, a fact which he could account for only on the 

 supposition that in the absence of the usual insect food supply, 

 the adults had been driven to prey upon the young and the 3'oung 

 upon each other to an unusual degree. Many of the spiders were 

 hanging in the centre of their round snares. Others — the greater 

 part, indeed — were sheltered within a thick tubular or arched 

 screen, open at both ends, which was bent in the angles of the 

 woodwork, or beneath an irregular rectangular silken patch 

 stretched across a corner. 



Many others were burrowed behind cocoons, quite covered up 

 by the thick flossy fibre of which these are composed. In this 

 condition the}' had undoubtedly spent the winter. He had found 

 examples of E. strix blanketed in precisely the same way during 

 the winter months. Unfortunately he had never been able to 

 make a mid-winter journey to this favorite spider-haunt, in order 

 to see the araneads in extreme hibernation ; but he asked some of 

 the young boatmen what the spiders did in winter-time. " They 

 crawl into their bags," one answered, referring to the screens 

 and tubes above described, "and stay there. They came out 

 about a month ago (the last of April), and then ' shed.' A 

 couple of weeks ago the sides of the houses were all covered with 

 these ' sheds ' " — by which, of course, the young man meant their 

 moults. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



NOTES ON MESOZOIC COCKROACHES. 

 BY SAMUEL H. SCUDDER. 



I. Pterinoblattina, a remarkable type of Palaeoblattariae. 



Among the many fossil cocki-oaches figured by Westwood 

 thirty years ago, was one which Giebel afterwards named Blatta 

 plama, on account of the resemblance of its neuration to the 

 barbs of a feather, where the shaft is on one side. Several 

 species are now known, and on account of this curious arrange- 

 ment of the veins, the generic name, 



PTERINOBLATTINA (^ript^) 

 is proposed. The wings were very broad, expanding consider- 

 ably beyond the base, broadest beyond the middle, and filled 

 with an abundance of branching veins. The mediastinal, scapular, 

 and externomedian veins ran close together, side by side, in a 

 perfectby straight-course (the shaft of the feather), from near the 

 middle of the base of the wing toward and nearly to a point on 

 the costal margin a little within the apex of the wing, and the 

 superior mediastinal and inferior externomedian branches, crowded 

 closely together, parted from this apparently common stem at 

 nearly similar angles on either side of it. The complete inde- 

 pendence of the mediastinal, scapular, and externomedian veins 

 shows that the genus falls in the Palaeoblattariae. The species are 

 all small. 



Pterinoblattina pluma. 



Blatta pluma Gieb., Ins. der Vorw., 322. Figured by Westw., Quart. 

 Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., x, pi. 15, fig, 14f. 



The specimen, the original of which I have had the privilege of 

 studying, by the favor of my kind friend Rev. P. B. Brodie, is 

 rather imperfect, and a little deceptive from the fact that just 

 that portion of the tip is missing which contains the scapular 

 branches ; it is probable, however, from the longitudinal character 

 of the apical externomedian offshoots that the species more closely 

 resembles P. chrysea than P. intermixta. All the mediastinal 

 branches art: simple, parallel, equidistant, almost straight, closely 

 crowded, and part from the main stem at an angle of about 45°. 

 The externomedian branches, the only others preserved, part at a 

 less angle, gradually become quite horizontal apically, are nearly 




106 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



as close at base as the scapular branches, and as most of them 

 fork and even re-fork, though with entire irregularity, become 

 excessively crowded toward the margin. The length of the 

 fragment is 9 mm., its breadth 5 ram. Probably the wing was 12 

 mm. long, and 5'5 mm. broad. 



It was found in the Corbula or Pecten beds of the Dorset 

 Purbecks of England. 



Pterinoblattina penna, sp. nov. 



The single specimen of this species at hand is preserved in 

 much the same manner as the last, but shows a fragment of the 

 internomedian region. The three principal veins approach each 

 other very gradually so as to give them the appearance of a 

 tapering rod. The mediastinal branches part from the stem at 

 nearly a right-angle near the base of the wing, gradually increasing 

 in obliquity distally, until they form an angle of 45° with it; they 

 are slightly curved, the concavity outward, very closely crowded, 

 and about every third one forked near the middle, but with no 

 regularity. The scapular branches are not preserved, but as in 

 P. pluma, and for the same reason, they probably resemble P. 

 chrysea rather than P. intermixta. The externomedian branches 

 are very closely crowded, generally straight, part from the stem 

 at an angle of 45° next the base, and become almost wholly 

 longitudinal at the apex ; they fork about as frequently as, and 

 more irregularly than, the mediastinal branches. The interno- 

 median area extends far out on the wing, and its branches 

 (what few can be seen) resemble those of the preceding area, and 

 at its extremity are parallel to them. Length of fragment, 13 

 mm.; width, 9 mm. Probable length of wing, 15 mm.; probable 

 width, 9 mm. 



Described from a specimen from the English Purbecks sent me 

 for examination by Rev. P. B. Brodie. 



It is not impossible that the fragment of a larger wing figured 

 by Westwood (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., 1854, pi. 1.7, fig. 7 ), 

 from the Lower Purbecks of Durdlestone Bay may be a species 

 very close to this. 



Pterinoblattina chrysea. 



Mattina chrysea E. Geinitz, Zeitschr. Deutsch. Geol. Gesellsch., 1880, 

 520, pi. 32, fig. 2. 



In this case we have a more perfect wing, the tip being almost 

 completely preserved. The mediastinal vein terminates before 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 107 



the middle of the outer half of the costal border, and is furnished 

 with simple, straight, oblique branches, not so numerous as in the 

 other species, to judge by the figure, though they are spoken of 

 by Geinitz as " very numerous and closely crowded." Just before 

 the scapular reaches the tip of the mediastinal, it turns parallel 

 to the costal margin, runs to the upper tip of the wing, and emits 

 branches similar to those of the mediastinal, but of course of 

 equal length. All the externomedian branches run almost longi- 

 tudinally, are straight, sometimes forked, and appear from the 

 figure to be less crowded than the mediastinal branches, though 

 they are compared by Geinitz to the barbs of a feather. The 

 internomedian runs to just beyond the broadest part of the wing, 

 being thus longer than the mediastinal, and sends less crowded, 

 gently curved, usually forked, rather short branches to the border. 

 The few anal branches curve and strike the inner margin. Length, 

 5 mm.; breadth about 2*25 mm. 



From the Lias of Dobbertin, Germany. The description is 



drawn up from the data given by Geinitz. 

 i 

 Pterinoblattina intermixta, sp. nov. 



A nearly complete wing of this species has almost the same 

 shape as P. chrysea, but the upper part of the apex is more pro- 

 duced. The mediastinal vein terminates before the middle of the 

 outer half of the wing, and the area narrows more gradually than 

 in any of the others ; its branches are gently curved, and often 

 forked, but not excessively crowded. Just before reaching the 

 tip of the mediastinal, the scapular vein suddenly bends toward 

 the apex, running subparallel to, but away from the costal margin, 

 terminating at the tip and emitting a crowd of curved and forked 

 branches. The closely crowded externomedian branches part at 

 an angle of 45° with the stem, are straight, and fork only just 

 before the tip, forming a tolerably regular belt of crowded vein- 

 lets along the margin. The basal branches, however, are inter- 

 fered with and affected by the internomedian vein, which is nearly 

 straight, at first running plump against the externomedian 

 branches, curves then downward parallel to these and terminates 

 a little before the mediastinal ; it is furnished abundantly with 

 branches curving like its extremitj^ and branching next the border 

 like the externomedian branches, but where it abuts against these 

 latter they simulate the appearance of the internomedian branches 

 so as to appear as if a part of the internomedian area, and thus 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



give the latter the appearance of extending out beyond the 

 broadest part of the wing. The anal appears to be insignificant, 

 reaching less than a third the distance from the base and resem- 

 bling a narrower and smaller internomedian area. Length of 

 fragment, 10*5 mm., probable length of wing 12 mm. , 



Received from Rev. P. B. Brodie, as coming from the Upper 

 Lias of Alderton, Gloucestershire, England. 



Pterinoblattina hospes. 



Ricania Jio&pes Germ., Acta Acad. Leop. Carol., xix, 220-21, PI. 23, 

 fig. 18. 



Germar took this for one of the Fulgorina, in the neighbor- 

 hood of Ricania and Pceciloptera. It is pretty plain, however, 

 that it belongs here, though the figure given by Germar is not 

 sufficiently clear to enable one to formulate any characteristics. 

 Assmann thought it a Neuropteron, falling in the neighborhood 

 of Drepanopteryx. 



It comes from the Oolite of Solenhofen. 



Pterinoblattina gigas. 



Ricania gigas Weyenb., Arch. Mus. Tcyl., ii, 270-71, pi. 35, fig. 23. 



Following Germar, Weyenbergh placed this enormous species 

 in llicania, but it as evidently falls here and bears a close general 

 resemblance, excepting in size, to P. penna of the Purbecks. 

 Ricania fulgens Gieb. (Brodie, PI. 4, fig. 12), from the Vale of 

 Wardour, has nothing to do with Pterinoblattina. 



This gigantic form also come from the Oolite of Solenhofen. 



II. Triassic Blattarise from Colorado. 



In a recent paper I described some of the Triassic Palreoblat- 



tarise, which I mentioned as interesting on account of their 



special relation to the Blattarise of the same formation. Brief 



diagnoses of these latter forms will therefore have some interest, 



Mini I mention them in the order of their relation to the Palaeo- 



blattariae. 



NEORTHROBLATTINA ( , co s , fy0po { ), gen. nov. 



In this genus the wings are about two and a half times longer 

 than broad, with fairly well rounded apices, the mediastinal and 

 scapular veins amalgamated into a single vein, which extends 

 nearly to the tip and in the middle of the wing occupies nearly 

 one-half its width. The internomedian vein is of varying impor- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 109 



tance, and in the large anal area the veinlets terminate on the 

 margin ; the anal furrow is strongly arcuate, and deeply impressed. 



Neorthroblattina albolineata, sp. nov. 



The single wing has lost the tip, but all the essential features are 

 preserved, excepting the form of the tip. The wing is very dark 

 colored, and the veins appear as very pale lines upon it. The 

 costal margin is gently and equably arched, while the inner margin 

 is perfectly straight. The externomedian vein is little developed, 

 first forking and then not widely in the middle of the wing, its 

 fuller development being prevented by the ample and unrestricted 

 development of the internomedian vein, which runs in a full 

 rounded course nearly to the tip of the wing. The anal area is 

 interesting because the veins of the upper half run close to, but 

 do not impinge upon the anal furrow, curving downward just before 

 reaching it, and either running into the next vein below and ter- 

 minating there, or continuing parallel to the furrow and termi- 

 nating on the inner border. Length of fragment, T mm. ; probable 

 length of wing, 9 mm. ; breadth of wing, 3*5 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Coloradg. 



Neorthroblattina Lakesii, sp. nov. 



Several specimens of this species were found. The costal 

 margin is arched as in the last species, and the inner margin has 

 an almost equal opposite curvature. The externomedian vein has 

 a very sinuous course, and forks before the middle of the wing 

 with abundant neuration, occupying on the margin the entire tip 

 of the wing, and almost the outer half of the lower margin, while 

 the internomedian is reduced to an arching vein, extending but 

 little beyond the anal furrow, and with onty two or three branches ; 

 the anal veins are all parallel to the anal furrow and simple. Length 

 of wing, 9 mm.; breadth, 3*5 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairpla}', Colorado. This species is named 

 after Prof. Arthur Lakes, of the School of Mines, in Golden, 

 Colorado, who first made known these beds ; this species being 

 one of the first discovered by him. 



Neorthroblattina rotundata, sp. nov. 



The costal margin in this species is very strongly arched, while 

 the inner margin is straight, giving a very different aspect to the 

 wing. It closely resembles the preceding species in the mediastino- 




110 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



scapular, and anal areas, and also in the peculiarities of the 

 externomedian vein, excepting that the latter does not encroach 

 to so large a degree upon the internoraedian, the terminal offshoot 

 of which creeps along the border so as to limit the marginal 

 extent of the externomedian area almost as much below as above, 

 although the branching of the externomedian vein is scarcely 

 lessened. Length of wing, 8*5 mm.; breadth, 3*3 mm. 

 Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Neorthroblattina attenuata, sp. nov. 



This species departs from the t}'pical forms in its slenderness 

 and pointed apex, but it agrees so fairly in general structure that 

 it would best be placed here. The costal margin is not regularly 

 arched, being flattened mesially, while the whole wing tapers 

 beyond the basal third ; the inner margin is also arcuate, and the 

 tip bluntly pointed. The mediastino-scapular vein terminates 

 considerably befoi'e the apex, and the oppositely arcuate interno- 

 median reaches almost as far out, the branches of both nearly 

 always simple. The anal veins are only slightly irregular. 

 Length of wing, 15 mm.; .breadth, 4 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



SCUTINOBLATTINA (mririvo;), gen. nov. 



In this genus, composed of small species, the front wings are 

 decidedly more coriaceous than the hind wings, so that the neura- 

 tion is often more or less obscured by it. The wing itself is 

 convex, as in the modern Phoraspis, and subtriangular in 

 form, its greatest width being near the base, while the tip is 

 bluntly pointed. The mediastinal and scapular veins are again 

 blended into one, which, instead of having a sinuous course, is 

 nearly or quite straight, and terminates below the apex of the 

 wing, while the externomedian vein follows closely parallel to it, 

 and the oblique veins of this and the internomedian veins follow 

 each other so as to make it difficult to tell where the line of 

 demarkation may lie. The anal veins sometimes fall on the 

 margin and sometimes on the anal furrow. 



Scutinoblattina Brongniarti, sp. nov. 



In this interesting species the wings are very strongly convex 

 at the base, and the whole surface is flecked with dark spots. 

 The branches part from the main veins at a similar angle on either 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Ill 



side of the middle of the wing. The anal area extends nearly to 

 the middle of the wing, where it is marked by a considerable 

 emargination, and its veins are frequent, oblique, mostly simple, 

 and terminate on the margin. Length of wing, 7 mm.; breadth, 

 3 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. Named after Mr. Chas. 

 Brongniart, of Paris, well known for his remarkable discoveries 

 among the older fossil insects. 



Scutinoblattina intermedia, sp. nov. 



This species resembles the last, but is not marked by any dots, 

 and the anal area, while shorter, shows no emargination of the 

 border at its extremity ; the anal veins are very close, parallel to 

 the inner margin, and terminate not on the margin, but on the 

 anal furrow. It further differs in that the externomedian branches 

 are considerably more longitudinal than those terminating on the 

 costal margin. Length of wing, 7 mm.; breadth, 2*75 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



Scutinoblattina recta, sp. nor. 



This species, the smallest and most abundant of all in the 

 Triassic rocks, is rather slenderer than the others, and has the 

 surface finely reticulated. The mediastino-scapular and externo- 

 median veins run side by side in perfectly straight lines from the 

 middle of the base to the middle of the tip, the branches, very 

 few in number, parting similarly on the two sides. The costal 

 is more arched than the inner margin, and where they can be 

 made out, the one or two anal veins seem to run to the margin, 

 but all the veins on the wing are exceedingly obscure. Length 

 of wing, 6*3 mm.; breadth, 2*4 mm. 



Triassic beds near Fairplay, Colorado. 



III. On the Genera hitherto proposed for Mesozoic Blattarise. 



Brodie, in 1845, published figures of a considerable number of 

 mesozoic cockroaches, but named only one, which he referred to 

 the genus Blatta. In 1852 Heer figured and named another under 

 the equally broad generic name Blattina. Westwood, in publish- 

 ing in 1854 a considerable addition to our knowledge of the cock- 

 roaches of the English mesozoic rocks, separated four somewhat 

 peculiar forms under the generic term Blattidium ; the rest were 




112 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



unnamed. Giebel two years later named a considerable propor- 

 tion of Brodie's and Westwood's species ; while placing a con- 

 siderable number under Blatta and Blattina, he divided the rest 

 •under three new genera, Bithma, Elisama and Nethania, the last 

 including the only one of Westwood's species of Blattidium which 

 was noticed. On the other hand, Heer, in 1864, divided all the 

 mesozoic species between Blattina and Blattidium, placing in the 

 latter all of Westwood's species, together with all those referred 

 to new genera by Giebel. Finally, a few years ago E. Geinitz 

 proposed for a triassic species described by him, and one pre- 

 viously published by Heer, the new generic term Mesoblattina. 



There is no question that the forms described by Westwood, 

 after eliminating the one separated by Giebel, under the name of 

 Nethania, form a very distinct group ; but none of the species 

 since added to it belong here, so that 



BLATTIDIUM 



should stand much as first limited (though not described) by 

 Westwood. Probably, however, it should be still further 

 restricted by the elimination of B. Achelovs Westwood. The 

 wings are exceedingly long and slender, particularly in B. 

 Symyrus Westw. — which may be taken as the type — with nearly 

 or quite parallel sides. The mediastinal vein terminates not far 

 from the middle of the wing, and sends out a multitude of 

 crowded offshoots to the margin. The scapular vein unites in the 

 basal third of the wing with the externomedian, and throws off 

 rather distant oblique veins, first to the mediastinal, and after- 

 wards to the border. The externomedian and internomedian 

 veins have together several more or less forked, very longitudinal 

 branches, all of which appear to terminate on the apical margin, 

 while the main anal vein, longitudinally oblique, extends nearly 

 as far as the mediastinal, and the outer half of the inner margin 

 of the wing seems to have no veins falling upon it ; the veins of 

 the anal area run obliquely from the margin upward and outward 

 to the main anal vein. 



As to the genera of Giebel, six species are placed by him in 

 Bithma, two in Elisama and one in Nethania. The species of 

 Nethania is rather too uncertainly figured to determine by the 

 illustration alone where it belongs. The two species of 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



ELISAMA 



figured by Broclie certainly belong together, and seem to consti- 

 tute a natural genus. By the kindness of Rev. Mr. Broclie, I 

 have seen the original of his pi. v, fig. 1 (Elisama Kneri of 

 Giebel) and another specimen which seems to belong to E. 

 minor, so that I can more fully characterize this genus. The 

 mediastinal and scapular veins appear here to constitute one 

 vein, and to occupy almost the entire upper half of the wing. 

 The externomedian and internomedian veins fill the lower half 

 between them with parallel veins, which at their origin curve at 

 once strongl}' downward, and then run longitudinally to the 

 apical margin, leaving only the meagrest possible space to the 

 anal area, which is indeed broken off from the two specimens I 

 have seen, and does not appear in the figures published by 

 Brodie. In addition, in both the species, there is an abundant, 

 but imperfect, cross-venation at the base of the externomedian 

 and internomedian areas, and on the latter a large discolored 

 spot, which may of course be confined to these two species only. 



RITHMA 



contains more incongruous material. I have myself recognized 

 in the English species I have examined autoptically only one of 

 the species referred to it, named R. Murchisoni \>y Giebel, and 

 this is certainly to be referred to Mesoblattina Geiriitz. R. rami- 

 ficata is cpiite too imperfect to be considered until better 

 specimens occur. It is probable that R. antiqua should be 

 separated from the others, and the same may be true of R. 

 Westivoodi. This leaves two species, R. purbeccensis and R. 

 Morrisi, which agree well together, and represent a group which 

 seems to have flourished in mesozoic times, as I have seen a 

 number of species from the English Lias belonging with them, and 

 Blattina formosa Heer from Schambelen, and Blattina Hasina 

 Gieb., figured by Brodie, also belong here. These wings are 

 rounded wedge-shaped, with the amalgamated mediastinal and 

 scapular area so large as to occupy about half of the wing, 

 the vein running in a slightly sinuous course to, or even below, 

 the tip. The anal area is generally pretty large, convex, and filled 

 with parallel veins, which terminate on the margin. The space 

 between is divided about equally between the externomedian and 

 internomedian veins, which generally take a somewhat sinuous 



9 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



course, and fork with tolerable abundance, filling the space with 

 graceful lines, spreading like (sinuous) rays of a fan. The 

 genus is closely related to Neorlh rdblattina of the American Trias 1 

 but differs from it in the much greater area covered by the amal- 

 gamated mediastinal and scapular veins. 



The following described species may be referred to it: — 



Rithma purbeccensis Gieb., Faun. d. Vorw., iii, 319. Figured by Westw., Quart. 

 Journ. (Jeol. Soc. Loud., x, PI. 18. fig. 32. Lower Purbecks, Durdlestone Bay, 

 England. 



Rithma Morrisi Gieb., Faun. d. Vorw., iii. 319. Figured by Westw., Quart. Journ. 

 Geol. Soc Loud., x, PI. 18, fig. 34. Lower Purbecks, Durdlestone Bay, England. 



Rithma formosa, 



Blattina formosa Ilcer, Lias Ins. Aarg., 15, PI. IT, figs. 41, 42 ; liter, 

 Urw. Schweiz, PL 7. figs. 1, \b, ; Lias, Schambelen, Switzerland. 



Rithma liasina. 



Blattina Hasina Gieb., Faun. d. Vorw., iii, :;17. Figured by Brodie, 

 Foss. Ins. Engl., PL 8, fig. 12; Lower Lias of Wainlode, Strensham, 

 England. 



MESOBLATTINA, 



proposed by E. Geinitz, as stated, for two Liassic species of 

 continental Europe, is a most prolific type, a considerable num- 

 ber of English mesozoic forms falling here, and among others, as 

 remarked above, those figured by "Westwood and described by 

 Giebel under the names of Rithma Murchisoni and R. antiqua. 

 The former of these, as well as a considerable number of new 

 species have been sent to me by Mr. Brodie. In this genus the 

 basal sweep of the externomedian and internomedian veins is very 

 noticeable, following as they do the curve of the anal furrow 

 before branching to fill the lower half of the wing. In this 

 respeel they remind one strongly of Elisama, but the wings are 

 much slenderer than there, and what is of more importance the 

 anal area isof the normal size, while next the humeral angle is seen a 

 flat unveined Held, so frequent in modern cockroaches. To this 

 belong among others the following species: — 



Mesoblattina protypa Gein., Zeitschr. Deutsch. Geol. Gesellsch., 1880, 519-20, PL 

 22, fig. I. Litis of Dobbertin, (lermany. 



Mesoblattina angustata Gein-, ih., 5 10-20. 



Blattina angustata Beer, Viert. naturf. Gesell. Zurich, ix, 288, 299-800, 

 PL fig. <». Lias of Schambelen, Switzerland. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



Mesoblatina dobbertinensis Gein., Zeitschr. Deutsch. Geol. Gesellsch., 1881, 570, 

 PI. 13, fig. 1. Lias of Dobbertin, England. 



Mesoblattina Murchisoni. 



Rithma Murchisoni Gieb., Ins. d. Vorw., 319. Figured by Westw., 

 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. Loud., x, PI. 18, fig. 43. Lower Purbecks 

 of Durdlestone Bay, England. 



Mesoblattina antiqua. 



Rithma antiqua Gieb., Ins. d. Vorw., 319. Figured by Westw., Quart. 

 Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., x, PI. 17, fig. 10. Lower Purbecks of 

 Durdlestone Bay, England. 



Mesoblattina elongata. \ 



Blatta elongata Gieb., Ins. d. Vorw., 322. Figured by Westw., Quart. 

 Journ. Geol. Soc. Lond., x, PI. 15, fig. 23. Middle Purbecks of 

 Durdlestone Bay, England. 




116 proceedings of the academy op [1885. 



Aprtl 21. 

 Mr. Thomas Meeiian, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Persistence in Variations Suddenly Introduced. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meeiian remarked that some public notice had been given to his 

 observations on Gypripedium insiyne (see page :;0 of the Proceed- 

 ings, 1885), and hence correspondents had written to him of similar 

 behavior in this plant. A correspondent at Lee, Mass., had 

 plants that had subspicate flowers last year ; and one from 

 Sharon, Western Pennsylvania, wrote that Mr. O'Brien of that 

 place had a plant that produced such flowers four years ago, and 

 the same plant had produced them annually ever since. There 

 could be very little of what is understood by the term environ- 

 ment to so ailed one plant that it should change in this manner 

 any more than other plants growing under the same condi- 

 tions of environment ; and when we found the same species 

 producing identical variations in localities two or three hundred 

 miles apart, the application of the term environment had abso- 

 lutely no meaning at all. We must still continue to search for 

 some power that gave law to the production of variation — in 

 other words, we had yet no comprehensible theory of the origin 

 of species. That new species owed allegiance to the power of 

 variation must be admitted, for these variations were species. 

 The subspicate inflorescence and accompanying changes in the 

 forms of the flower, were specific characters. We had no right 

 to undervalue the characters because we happened to know the 

 parentage. The form once produced had the hereditary character 

 of a species. It had endured for four years. By analogy with 

 similar changes in other plants, we were justified in assuming that 

 it would reproduce itself indefinitely from seeds, as it had done 

 by offsets ; and again we had the recognized character of a 

 species. 



The most interesting deduction, however, from the facts now 

 presented, was that it is not necessary to assume that every 

 species sprang from one parent form, and from this one centre of 

 origin spread by long lapses of time over a wide extent of country. 

 We see that identical forms may appear simultaneously in locali- 

 ties widely separated ; and, the circles meeting, cover a district in 

 a comparatively short time. There would, of course, still have to 

 be explained how the original forms from which these modern 

 variations sprung, first had such a wide distribution, but that was 

 a question which must wait for its own facts to properly solve. 

 This difficulty could not invalidate what we saw must be a truth, 

 that in these modern times new and identical forms do appear 

 simultaneously in widely separated localities. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 117 



Influence of Temperature on the Separate Sexes of Flowers. — 

 Mr. Meehan referred to his former observation, recorded in the 

 Proceedings, that the male flowers in Amentaceae, and other 

 dioecious plants would grow, become perfectly developed, and 

 mature the pollen under a temperature wholly insufficient to 

 excite the growth of the female flower, which would remain 

 undeveloped until a warmer temperature ensued. He had shown 

 that the infertility of hickories, oaks, walnuts, hazelnuts, and 

 other plants, a complaint common among orchardists in our 

 country, arose from this fact, there being very little or often no 

 pollen to fertilize the flowers in seasons when a few moderately 

 warm days in winter would bring the aments to perfection a 

 month or even months before the female flowers grew. This 

 season we had no warm winter days, and at this time, middle of 

 April, the aments in the hazelnuts and the female flowers were 

 maturing together. 



Mr. Meehan added that when he first reported these observa- 

 tions to the Academy he believed them wholly original, but he 

 had since noted that similar observations had been communicated 

 to the Horticultural Society of London, on the 18th of February, 

 1823, by Rev. George Swayne. " I entertain," says he, " a strong 

 suspicion that the xery frequent failures of the filbert crop (Mr. 

 Williamson tells us that they totally fail three years out of five) 

 are in great measure occasioned by a deficiency either in number 

 or in power of the male blossom." He remedied this by experi- 

 ment, by getting aments from other trees and hanging them in the 

 trees that had lost them. This gentleman, however, did not 

 apparently perceive the underlying principle that it took less heat 

 to perfect the male flowers than the female flowers of the same 

 species. It was quite possible this generalization might be 

 carried out of the region of amentaceous or allied plants, and 

 carried to a wide range of vegetable species, or even into zoology. 



April 28. 

 Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the genus Aphredoderus," by Willis S. 

 Blatchley, was presented for publication. 



Mr. Philip Laurent and the Rev. J. R. Danforth, D. D., were 

 elected members. 



Elasticity in the Fruit of Gactacese. — At the last meeting of the 

 Botanical Section, Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited fruit of Mam.il- 

 laria Heyderi, and remarked on the elastic characters of this and 

 other species. This Mamillaria, under culture, flowers in April 




118 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



or May, and, after flowering there is no sign of any development 

 in the fruit. The ovarium is, indeed, buried between the closely 

 appressed walls of the bases of the mammae. Here they remain, 

 undiscernible, till just before the next flowering season, when they 

 suddenly emerge, and in a single night apparently stretch out to 

 their full length. All attempts, however, to get at the exact 

 time of development had failed, for the fruit was alwaj^s of full 

 Length. when first observed. In this species, the fruit is about 

 two inches in length, clavate and incurved, and, as they are bright 

 red, and more than double the length of the mammas, and pro- 

 duced in considerable numbers, the effect on a plant where they 

 were wholly absent a few days before, is very striking. This 

 same sudden appearance of the fruit a 3 r ear after the ovaria had 

 been fertilized, has been noticed in Mamillaria Niittalliana, 

 and some Mexican allied species. That the sudden development 

 is the result of an elastic projection, and not of a proper growth, 

 is manifest from the fact that the fruit is mature from its first 

 appearance, has its dark red color, and succulence, and the seeds 

 are perfect in color and size. Growth has to finish, in all fruits, 

 before maturity is reached. A related form of elasticity has 

 already been recorded by him in the Botanical Gazette. He has 

 noted that after the maturity of the fruit of Opuntia Bigelovii 

 the seeds are projected from the apex, and run down the sides of 

 the fruit like lava from a burning mountain. In a letter to the 

 speaker, Dr. Engelmann a short time before his death, referred 

 to this observation as a matter of great importance as explaining 

 a fact for which he had never been able to account, that fruit 

 evidently seed-bearing, had generally been found by him to have 

 no seed when cut open. 



Mr. Median remarked that cases where ovaria, though fertilized, 

 would remain a year without signs of growth, were not unknown. 

 1 ndeed, large numbers of Coniferae, and species of Querent or oak 

 had especially this peculiarity. There was often little or no 

 growth in the fertilized fruit till the second year. 



He knew of no author who had made any mention of this sudden 

 and elastic development in the fruit of the Cacti, though the 

 fact must surely have come within the view of some observers. 

 Pfeiffer, Decandolle, Zuccarini, and other leading writers on Cac- 

 taceae, seldom make any reference at all to the fruit, while Dr. 

 Engelmann, who, of all others, has given us the most of what we 

 do know in reference to this interesting part of the history of this 

 plant, simply says in a few instances that the " fruit matures 

 about the same time with the opening of the Mowers.'' He had 

 however, nearly perceived the fact in one instance. He notices 

 in Plantse Lindheimeriansc that in this very species (he then 

 regarded it as M. applanata) "the scarlet fruit is still persis- 

 tent .and forms an outer circle," while the new flowers are opening; 

 and in the Botany of the Mexican Boundary, p. '.), referring to a 

 eloscly allied species. M. miacantha, lie says: " Fruil ripening 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 1 1 '.» 



the second spring and summer, till then hidden between the bases 

 of the surrounding tubercles, and for the greater part buried in 

 the tissues of the plant; in spring the young fruit suddenly (in 

 one or two weeks) grows to its full size, 9-12 or even 15 lines 

 long, protruding far above the tubercles, and forming an interior 

 (exterior?) scarlet circle, around the inner circle of rose-colored 

 flowers." He did not perceive that the development of the fruit 

 was not a growth, but the emergence and stretching out of struc- 

 ture the actual growth of which had already been matured ; that 

 it was an elastic and not a growing fruit. 



May 5. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-one persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



" On the Air-bladder of Fishes," by Charles Morris. 



"A Review of the Genus Phrynosoina," by Alan F. Gentry. 



Spawning of Fidgur perversus. — Mr. Jos. Willcox remarked 

 that during the month of March, 1884, and recently, during the 

 past March, in Clearwater Harbor and Sarasota Bay, in Florida, 

 he observed many egg-cases (more than a hundred) of Fulgur 

 perversa S, both recently completed and during the process of 

 their formation. 



When completed, one end of the string of egg-cases floats freely 

 in the water, while the small end is fastened to a shell under the 

 sand. Being thus anchored it is not liable to be removed from 

 its original position 113- the force of the tide. Whenever both 

 ends of the egg-case are found to be under the sand, the middle 

 portion being above the surface in the form of a loop, the parent 

 conch will always be attached to one of the ends, but invisible to 

 the beholder. All the processes connected 'with the subject of 

 the reproduction of this species are performed under the sand, 

 until the egg-cases are completed. When about to spawn, a place 

 is selected where the sand is not packed hard. At that time 

 a disposition is manifested to assemble in communities, usually 

 upon a sand-flat where the water is never deep, and where the 

 receding tide leaves the egg-cases dry and exposed to the warm 

 rays of the sun during a portion of each day. Many egg cases 

 however, are to be seen, which are always submerged. In such 

 instances the eggs may require a longer time for their develop- 

 ment. Although, during the early part of April, many egg-cases 

 were observed that were completed, in no instance were the 

 young shells found to be developed in them. 



When the mollusk is about to spawn, it first descends into the 

 sand deeply, and attaches the egg-case to a bivalve shell. As the 




L20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



process of extrusion permits, it ascends until the small end of its 

 shell or siphon reaches the surface of the sand, so that it may 

 respire the water freely. In this position it remains until the 

 spawning is completed, during which process the body is pro- 

 truded from its shell to a great extent. Only four or five of the 

 cells or capsules were observed to exist in the body of the female 

 at one time, which were closely compacted there, occupying little 

 space; but, after extrusion, each cell becomes enlarged in thick- 

 ness, being swollen by the introduction of water. During the 

 process of formation, the egg-case is forced upward, appearing in 

 the form of a loop above the sand, though no portion of the 

 parent is then visible. 



This species commences to spawn early in life. One egg-case 

 was observed, the cells of which were about a half inch in diam- 

 eter, the shell of the parent being only three and a half inches 

 long. If handled gently, when dug from the sand, the conch 

 does not withdraw its body into its shell ; but, if it is injured, it 

 will quickly eject all the egg-cells from its body, and close its 

 operculum. As only four or five of the egg-cells are found in the 

 body at one time, in the process of formation, it is presumed that 

 the whole series of cases require a long time in their develop- 

 ment. 



• May 12. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



The manuscript diary of Wm. Bartram was presented to the 

 library by Mi-. .Meehan. It covers the period from 1802 to 1822, 

 and contains notes on meteorology and natural history, especialh' 

 ornithology. 



A paper entitled "A Review of the American Genera and 

 Species of Mullidae," by Edw. A. Hall and J. Z. McCaughan, 

 was presented for publication. 



May 19. 

 Mr. Edw. Potts in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



Erythrite, Genlliite and Cuprite from near rhiladelphia. — 

 Prof. H. Carvill Lewis stated that during the Saturday excur- 

 sions of his class in mineralogy, a number of new mineral Localities 

 had been discovered, three of which were of sufficient interest to 

 in- recorded. 



Erj thiute. — Erythrite, the beautiful and rare arsenate of cobalt, 

 not heretofore recorded .is occurring in North America, was 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



found at the Wheatley lead mines, south of I'lmnixville. It 

 occurs here in veins and incrustations of a beautiful rose-pink 

 color. Under the microscope these incrustations are shown to be 

 for the most part composed of minute globular rosettes of crys- 

 tals, while earthy and fibrous masses also occur. The mineral 

 was found to fuse easily in the name of a Bunsen burner, coloring 

 the flame pale grayish blue, the color of burning arsenic. A borax 

 bead was colored deep blue, proving the presence of cobalt. The 

 erythrite was associated with fluorite and blende. The speci- 

 mens were collected by Mr. L. Woolman. 



Genthite. — Genthite, a hydrous silicate of nickel and magnesia, 

 was discovered in emerald-green coatings on the Schuylkill Valley 

 Railroad, about a hundred feet north of the steatite quarry at 

 Lafayette, just outside the city limits. It occurs on an actino- 

 lite rock in thin coatings, which, under the microscope, show the 

 mammillary and stalactitic structure characteristic of genthite. 

 Fused with borax, it gives a bead which is violet-brown in the 

 oxidizing flame, and in the reducing flame is reduced to gray 

 metallic particles, these reactions being characteristic of nickel. 

 The genthite is associated with the numerous magnesian minerals 

 which have made the steatite quarry so well known. Efflores- 

 cences of epsomite and veins of asbestos were found within a few 

 feet of the genthite. 



The discovery of genthite has a geological interest in demon- 

 strating the presence of nickel in the serpentine belt which here 

 crosses the Schuylkill. Some years ago Mr. T. D. Rand 1 had 

 found a single specimen of millerite, another nickel mineral, in 

 capillary crystals in the dolomite at the same locality. With this 

 exception, nickel had not been known in this serpentine belt. 

 Chromic iron and other chromium minerals are, however known 

 to occur in several localities in the same zone of serpentine, and 

 the association of chromium and nickel is well known. The ser- 

 pentines of Cornwall, the Alps, the Yosges, and of hundreds of 

 other localities, contain both chromium and nickel. Dr. T. Sterry 

 Hunt states 2 that the serpentines of his third (Green Mountain) 

 series, which he refers to the lower Silurian age, are " marked by 

 the almost constant presence of small portions of the oxides of 

 chrome and nickel," a character which distinguishes them from 

 the serpentines of the Laurentian series, which are usually free 

 from these metals. Dr. Hunt, however, fails to identify the ser- 

 pentine and steatite of Lafayette with his Green Mountain series, 

 but supposes it to belong to another horizon,' refusing to believe 

 that it was derived from an eruptive rock. 



1 Proc. Min. and Geol. Sec. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877. 



2 Chemical and Geological Essays, 187o, p. -'>2. 



8 The Geological History of Serpentines. Trans. Roy. Soc. Canada, 

 1883, i, p. 171. 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Vi t the presence of chromium and nickel in serpentine are 

 facts in favor of its eruptive origin. For very many serpentines 



arc derived from peridotite, as has been clearly shown by recent 

 work in microscopic lithology. Most peridotites, whether meteoric 

 or terrestrial, as the numerous analyses collected by Dr. M. E. 

 Wadsworth ' demonstrate, contain chromium and nickel. Most 

 stony meteorites contain these same elements, and even the iron 

 meteorites, in which the presence of nickel is so characteristic, 

 frequently contain chromium. The late Dr. Lawrence Smith has 

 described 2 nodules of chromite in meteoric iron, and has described 

 a new sulphide of chromium and iron, under the name of Dau- 

 breelite, 3 peculiar to meteorites, and, as he believes, almost con- 

 stantly present. 4 Chromite is well known to occur in terrestrial 

 eruptive rocks. The association of nickel and chrome has pre- 

 viously been noticed in Pennsylvania at Wood's Chrome Mine, 

 Lancaster County, where genthite 5 (described as nickelgymnite) 

 was originally found. Genthite is associated with chromite also 

 at Webster, Jackson County, North Carolina, where it forms 

 handsome apple-green specimens incrusting chromite, and it is 

 said to have a similar association at Malaga, Spain. Zaratite, a 

 carbonate of nickel, occurs with chromite in West Nottingham, 

 Chester County. Genthite has also been found at two other 

 chrome-ore mines in Lancaster County, but until now not else- 

 where in this State. 



Cuprite. — -Bright vermilion-red earthy incrustations of cuprite, 

 were noticed at Frankford, Philadelphia, in the quarries of horn- 

 blendic gneiss, so well known to mineralogists. This red oxide 

 of copper here sometimes forms a coating on bornite, which latter 

 is a beautiful, and somewhat abundant, mineral, at these quarries. 

 The cuprite has in this association a peculiarly resinous lustre, 

 and the specimens collected closely resemble red sealing-wax. 



Bothriocephalus in a Trout. — Prof. Leii>> remarked that 

 through Dr. F>. II. Warren he had recently received from the 

 Smithsonian Institution, several vials with tape-worms, obtained 



l>\ Mr. L. M. Turner, from a trout, Salvelinus ? , at Ft. Chimo, 



Ungava. One of the vials contained eighl worms ranging from 

 3 to 8 inches long, together with fragments of others; and was 

 labeled, " Passed from a 'front, caught in the river. August 14, 

 1882.'' The worms belong to a species of Bothricephalus or 

 Dibothrium, apparently different from either the D. infundibu- 

 liforme or I '. proboscidev m , round in Salmo salvelinus, S. salar, 



Mem. Mns. Comp. Zool. Oambr., \i, I, Lithological studies, tables. 

 : Amer. Jour. Science, sxi, 1881, p. 161. 

 ■ ; Amer. Jour. Science, xii, 1876, p. 107, and \\i. 1878, p. 270. 

 ' i iriginal Researches, 188 1, p. 5 13. 



Keller-Tiedemi , Nordam. Monatsbericht, iii, 488. 



■ Report B, Second Geolog. Survej ofPenna., p. lis. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



S. trutta, and other fishes of the kind. The specimens are all 

 mature; the segments from near the head throughout being dis- 

 tended with brownish eggs. The characters of the worm arc as 

 follow: — Body linear, band-like, widest just behind the head, and 

 gradually narrowing to the posterior extremity, thickened along 

 the middle and to a less degree along the lateral borders, which 

 are narrowly obtuse at the free edge, apparently continuous but 

 irregularl}' crenulate ; the broad surfaces transversely wrinkled, 

 with the lateral borders defined from the middle by longitudinal 

 striae ; anterior extremity wider and transversely convex ; pos- 

 terior extremity obtusely rounded. Head small, oval, equitant 

 across the anterior border of the body, with an oval bothria 

 fore and aft, directed obliquely from the broad surfaces of the 

 body. No distinct neck. Segments of the body commencing 

 immediately after the head, wider than long, indistinctly defined 

 at the lateral margins and most marked transversely along the 

 middle of the body, becoming narrower and slightly longer at 

 the posterior part of the latter, fertile throughout, and furnished 

 on one side of the body, in the median line, with a prominent 

 penal papilla and just behind with a genital pore. Animal whitish 

 with a median chain of brownish spots due to the ova-distended 

 uteri. 



In a specimen of eight inches in length, the anterior extremity 

 of the body is 3 mm. wide ; at the middle 2 mm. ; and at the 

 posterior extremity l - 5 mm. The head measures 0*16 mm. 

 transversely and 0*18 mm. deep or long on the broad aspect of 

 the worm. The segments generally measure about 0*(>25 mm. 

 long. The ova are brownish, oval, and 0*04 mm. long by - 024 

 broad. 



The second vial contains a single worm, and is labeled, " Taken 

 from the intestine of a Trout, Aug. 29, 1882." This worm I sus- 

 pect to represent an immature stage of the former. It is 30 mm. 

 long, and in shape resembles a fluke-worm or a leech. It is elon- 

 gated elliptical, flat, widest in front, with the lateral margins 

 apparently entire, the broad surfaces transversely striated, and 

 longitudinally divided in three bands, with the median band indis- 

 tinctly divided into segments, on one surface in the median line 

 provided each with a minute pore. Head oval, situated fore and 

 aft across the' anterior transversely convex border of the body ; 

 with a minute oval bothria fore and aft. Caudal extremity nar- 

 rowest, transversely convex at the end, and emarginate or with a 

 pore. Breadth at fore-part 3 mm. ; at back part 2 mm. The 

 species may be named Bothriocephalus (Dibothrium) cestus. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




124 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



ON THE AIR-BLADDER OF FISHES. 

 BY CHARLES MORRIS. 



The generally accepted explanation of the use of this singular 

 organ, that it serves to enable the fish to readily rise and sink in 

 the water, while it is in all probability true in a measure, has 

 undoubtedly been too greatly extended. It is usually offered as 

 applying generally to fishes with an air-bladder, with little 

 regard to the fact that in many cases the air-bladder is too small 

 to serve anj r useful purpose as a gravity organ. This being 

 the case, some further examination into its functions and organic 

 relations seems not amiss. 



Cuvier tells us that " the most obvious use of the swim-bladder 

 is to keep the animal in equilibrium with the water, or to increase 

 or reduce its relative weight, and thereby cause it to ascend or 

 sink, in proportion as that organ is dilated or compressed. For 

 this purpose, the fish contracts the ribs or allows them to 

 expand." This is, however, not always the case, for in many 

 cases the bladder is provided with compressing muscles, and, as 

 Van Der Hoeven says : " In many fishes it is difficult to show 

 how they are in a condition to expand the bladder and to rarefy 

 the air." Cuvier says further : " With regard to the presumed 

 assistance which the swim-bladder affords in respiration, it is :i 

 fact that, when a fish is deprived of that organ, the product of 

 carbonic acid b}^ the branchiae is very trilling ; but there is no 

 sufficient foundation for assuming that it oilers any analogy to 

 the lungs." This is no doubt true as regards the usual condition 

 of the organ. It may perform some function in facilitating the 

 exchange of gases in the blood, but this is not a direct 

 respiratory function. In some cases, however, its function is 

 directly respiratory, and in a few instances it constitutes an 

 actual lung, closely approaching the Batrachian lung in organ- 

 ization. 



A similar view is offered by the latest writers. Giinther, in 

 his "Study of Fishes," remarks that "this organ serves to 

 regulate the specific gravity of the fish, to aid it in maintaining 

 a particular level in the water, in rising or sinking, in raising the 

 front part of its body or depressing it as occasion ma\ require." 

 This theory is based on hypothesis, since it would be no easy 



' 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



matter to prove or disprove it hy experiment. As above said, 

 however, it is in consonance with physical laws in certain cases, 

 and in such cases it very probably gives a correct view of the 

 function of the organ. Yet there are many cases in which the 

 small size of the organ must render it nearly or quite useless for 

 anj^ such purpose, while its entire absence in very many instances 

 of active species of fish, shows that this function is of no special 

 value to the fish tribe as at present constituted, and suggests 

 that the original purpose of the air-bladder must have been very 

 different from that here surmised. A general examination of the 

 subject may aid us in gaining some definite conception of the 

 character of this original function. 



The air-bladder of fishes is an internal sac, occupying usually 

 the dorsal aspect of the body, and in some cases connected with 

 the intestinal canal by a pneumatic duct, though in the great 

 majorit} r of cases this duct is wanting, or its cavity is closed. 

 Thus, most generally, the bladder is a closed sac, containing gas 

 which could only have come from the blood-vessels, with which 

 it is abundantly provided in the form of retia mirabilia. This 

 gas, in fresh-water fishes, is nearly pure nitrogen. In ocean 

 fishes, particularly the deeper swimmers, oxygen is in excess, 

 and has been found in some instances to constitute as much as 

 87 per cent, of the contents. Some naturalists advance the 

 singular theory that the absolute weight of the fish may be 

 increased or diminished by compression or dilation of this gas, 

 as if the same quantity of gas could change its weight by a 

 variation in its density. But that the relative weight of the fish, 

 or its displacement of water, might be changed by a variation of 

 its body-volume, through a variation in the state of compression 

 of the air-bladder, is unquestionable, though in those numerous 

 cases where the bladder is very small its influence must be of 

 very little aid in the movements of the fish. 



In addition to its use in aiding the fish to ascend or descend 

 in the water, its dorsal position must also act to keep the back 

 of the fish uppermost. In certain cases it also doubtless 

 subserves another gravitative purpose — that of elevating or 

 depressing the anterior region of the body, at the will of the 

 fish. This is possible in those cases in which the bladder has a 

 considerable longitudinal extension. In some cases, it is pro- 

 longed into the tail of the fish. In others, it sends processes 




12P> PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



into the head. And in certain instances, the ductless bladder is 

 divided Ity constrictions into two or three compartments, in the 

 Longitudinal direction. In these cases, the fish may have the 

 power to shift the gaseous contents of the bladder forward or 

 backward at will, and thus, by a variation in the weight of the 

 different regions of the body, to change its line of motion from a 

 horizontal to a more or less inclined direction. Yet such a func- 

 tion cannot be of any absolute importance to the fish, or 

 preparation for it Avould be far more general than we find it. 



I f we consider the conditions under which the air-bladder exists 

 in fishes, it becomes exceedingly doubtful that it was originally 

 evolved as a gravity-organ. In one important order of fishes, 

 the Elasmobranchs, it does not exist. No shark or ray possesses 

 this organ, in the main body of the fish tribe, the Teleostean, 

 its occurrence and character are very irregular. In those which 

 possess it, it exhibits an extraordinary variation in shape, size 

 and relations to the body, and this sometimes between closely 

 related genera and species. With some Teleosteans the air- 

 bladder has an open pneumatic duct, connecting with the 

 oesophagus, or in a few cases with the stomach. With others 

 this duct exists, but its cavity is closed. In some cases it is 

 reduced to a fine ligament. In many others no trace of it exists. 

 The air-bladder itself is a hollow sac, composed usually of two 

 tunics, and compressible, in whole or in part, by the aid of 

 muscles on its external surface, or by other means. It is situated 

 in the abdominal cavity, above the intestinal canal, and outside 

 the peritoneal sac, its ventral surface being invested by a fold of 

 the peritoneum. In some fishes it is almost loose in the 

 abdominal cavity. In others it is intimately adherent to the 

 vertebral column and the abdominal tissues. In many cases it is 

 inclosed in osseous capsules formed lry the vertebrae, which 

 -ccin capable of exerting a pressure upon it. In addition to the 

 cases of its longitudinal division into chambers, it is sometimes 

 composed of two lateral divisions, and in some families there is an 

 extraordinary development of lateral appendages. 



Its occurrence is as irregular as it- shape and relation to the 

 body. In this respect, it varies remarkably in species of the 

 same genus. Thus the mackerel has no air-bladder; yet one 

 exists in Scomber pneumatophor us, a species which in every other 

 respect very closely resembles the mackerel. So Polynemus 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



paradise us is without an air-bladder, while all other species of 

 the genus have one. The same condition occurs in related 

 genera. Thus in the species of Sebastes the air-bladder is very 

 large, while in the uexl genus of the family it is scarcely the 

 size of a pea. 



These examples will serve to show the great diversity in the 

 shape, size and condition of this organ. And it may be said 

 here that these variations have no appreciable effect upon the 

 velocit}' and activity of the fish. Those that have no air-bladder 

 seem in no respect at a disadvantage, as compared with those 

 that have one. Again, it ma} r be said that no animal organ 

 whose function is of known importance presents such extraor- 

 dinary modifications. In the heart, lungs, brain, etc., there is 

 one shape, position and condition of greatest efficiency, and 

 throughout the lower forms we find a steady and undeviating 

 advance towards this condition. There is in all these organs a 

 persistent movement towards homogeneit3 r ; not towards hetero- 

 geneity, such as we find in the air-bladder. The natural conclusion 

 from this would be that the air-bladder is not an organ of func- 

 tional importance, while its absence from many fish, and great 

 diversity in others, indicates that it is of minor value to the fish 

 tribe. If it is of absolute necessity to any fish as a gravitating 

 organ, why is it not necessaiy to all, and why has it not 

 developed into some shape and condition of greatest efficiency? 

 The existence of the air-bladder is proof that it has had, at some 

 time, a function of considerable importance ; but its many 

 variations go to prove that it has ceased to perform any 

 essential function, and is on the road towards extinction. On 

 no other theory can we explain its great diversity in nearly 

 related species. 



That the air-bladder is degenerating we have evidence in cases 

 like that above mentioned, where it is no larger than a pea. It 

 is difficult to imagine that this minute organ is of any use to the 

 animal. But no process of evolution can take place, except the 

 organ is of use at every stage of its development. The natural 

 conclusion is that the air-bladder evolved long ago, under some 

 influence not now active, and is now on the road towards extinc- 

 tion, being retained only in those forms where it serves some 

 minor purpose, but being nearly or quite obliterated in forms in 

 which it is put to no practical use. This secondary use of 




128 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



degenerating organs is not uncommon. We have one instance in 

 poinl in the adaptation of the embryonal gill-arches of mammals 

 to other uses. Of these secondary einphrvments of the air- 

 bladder one seems to have some connection with the organ of 

 hearing. Another seems to be to change the direction of the 

 fish-body from the horizontal towards the vertical line. As a 

 general rule, when present, it may fix the special buoyancy of 

 the fish-bod}', and, by its situation near the back of the fish, may 

 aid to keep the dorsal surface upward in the water. This may 

 be the purpose of its lateral appendages, as the former is of its 

 longitudinal extension. Yet the fishes which have no air-bladder 

 seem none the worse off in any of these particulars. It is 

 impossible that such an organ could have developed to perform 

 functions which were satisfactorily performed without it, and it 

 seems more probable that it is an organ arrested at various 

 points in its process of degeneration, as it proved serviceable in 

 some minor function. 



If, then, we may look upon the air-bladder as an organ which 

 has partly or wholly lost its original function, the question 

 follows, what was that function ? There are certain good reasons 

 for believing that the breathing of air was the original purpose 

 of this organ. In mature Telcosteans this is occasionally indi- 

 cated by the existence of a pneumatic duct connecting with the 

 (esophagus. It is true that this duct is usually of no functional 

 use. and varies from partial to complete disappearance. But the 

 fact is, that all fishes with an air-bladder possess a duct in the 

 early stage of embryological development. In the mature stage 

 it is lost by all Teleosteans except the Physostomes. 



Thus embryological evidence indicates that one original function 

 of the air-bladder was the introduction of external air into the 

 body, a function which has now lost its importance. And the 

 apparatus for compressing and dilating the bladder may have 

 been originally developed as an aid in this function. Also the 

 extraordinary development of retia mirabilia, in the inner tunic 

 of many air-bladders, now used only to secrete gas into the 

 interior, may be a survival of ancient pulmonary capillaries, 

 which have changed their character with their function. 



There are other reasons beyond those here given thai the air- 

 bladder was originally an air-breathing organ. Embryology 

 points back to the condition of the primal fishes. But of these 




188:").] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



antique vertebrates we have existing representatives in the 

 Ganoids and the Elasmobranchs, and it is of interest to find that 

 in these modern survivals of the ancient fish life, the Elasmo- 

 branchs are entirely destitute of air-bladders, both in the mature 

 and the larval stage, while all Ganoids possess an air-bladder, 

 which retains a fully developed pneumatic duct in the mature 

 stage. And in the suborder of Dipnoi, the air-bladder is func- 

 tional^ active as a lung. It is well-known that counterparts of 

 the modern Dipnoi existed in the Devonian age, and it is highly 

 probable that they breathed air then as they do now. In fact, 

 we have some warrant for the belief that the antique fishes were 

 divided into two orders, as clearly b} T their breathing habits as 

 by other characteristics, the Elasmobranchs breathing b}' gills 

 only, while the Ganoids had developed a supplementary organ 

 for an occasional breathing of the air. 



If we compare the air-bladder with the lungs of the higher 

 vertebrates, we find that its general condition in the Ganoids is 

 that of a single cavity, with an effective duct opening into the 

 dorsal side of the oesophagus. But there is an exception to 

 this in the Dipnoi, and in Polypterus. In these, the duct con- 

 nects with the ventral side of the oesophagus, as in the lungs of 

 higher animals. Wilder shows that there is a series of forms, 

 mostly Ganoids, leading from Amia and Lepidosteus, with the 

 pneumatic duct entering the throat on the dorsal side, to Lepi- 

 dosi?-en, in which it enters on the ventral side, as in lung- 

 breathing animals. 



In all the fishes just named the air-bladder functions as a lung. 

 In Polyterus it has lateral divisions, and is probably used in air 

 breathing, while in the Dipnoi it becomes a functional lung. In 

 Lepidosteus, the American Gar-Pike, the air-bladder becomes 

 cellular and lung-like. This fish keeps near the surface, and may 

 be seen to emit air-bubbles. It apparently takes in a fresh supply. 

 The American Bow Fin or mud-fish (Amia) has a bladder of the 

 same lung-like character, and it has been seen by Wilder to come 

 to the surface, open its jaws widel} T , and apparently swallow a 

 large quantity of air. Wilder remarks that " so far as the experi- 

 ments go it seems probable that, "with both Amia and Lepidosteus, 

 there occurs an inhalation as well as exhalation of air at pretty 

 regular intervals, the whole process resembling that of the 

 Menobranchus and other salamanders, and the tadpoles, which, 



10 




130 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



as the gills shrink and the lungs increase, come more frequently 

 to the surface for air." 1 



The Dipnoi have the air-bladder developed into :i true lung. 

 Of these the Australian lung fish (Ceratodus), has but a single 

 air-bladder, bul (his is provided with breathing pouches that pos- 

 sess a symmetrical lateral arrangement. It has no pulmonary 

 artery, l>ul receives branches from the Arteria cceliaca. It is 

 supposed that this fish ordinarily breathes with the gills, but uses 

 its lungs when the water has become thick and muddy, or is 

 charged with gases from decomposing organic matter. Finally 

 Lepidosiren and Protopterus have completely formed lungs, 

 divided into two lateral chambers, and provided with a pulmonary 

 artery. Their cellular structure nearly approaches that of the 

 batrachian lung. 



The facts here cited certainly seem to lead to the conclusion 

 that the ait-bladder Avas originally developed as an air-breathing 

 Organ, and only became adapted to other purposes when it had 

 become no longer of value in this direction. We may find evi- 

 dence in favor of this conclusion in the condition of the fishes 

 which still use it as a breathing organ. With them the gill is the 

 ordinary breathing apparatus. The lung is not called into use 

 except when the water becomes foul or unaerated. It is a sup- 

 plementary organ, which could be easily dispensed with if the 

 fish should gain the habit of swimming in search of better aerated 

 water. It is impossible to imagine that the air-bladder developed 

 into a lung under the force of such a minor necessity as this. It 

 is very much more probable that it was once an important breath- 

 ing organ with these fishes, and has retained its functional value 

 from its occasional use, but has become of minor importance, and 

 has been largely superseded by the gill. • 



If now we ask, what were the conditions of life under which 

 this organ was developed, and what were the later conditions 

 which rendered it in great measure or entirely useless, some 

 definite answer may be given. The question takes us back to the 

 Devonian and Silurian geological periods, during which it is 

 probable that its original development took place. In thiserathe 

 sens were thronged with fishes of two distinct orders, the Elas- 

 mobranchs and the Ganoids, the former without, the latter with. 



For other instances of the same character, sec Scinpcr's "Animal 

 Note 75. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



as air-bladder. This difference in organization was probably the 

 result of some marked difference in their life habits. The Ganoids 

 may, in their original state, have inhabited poorly aerated waters 

 or waters otherwise ill-adapted to breathing, while the Elasmo- 

 branchs may have had their primordial habitat in clearer and 

 purer waters. 



But there were other conditions which may have been the main 

 influencing causes in the development of an organ for air-breathing. 

 We know that the land was habitable during long ages ere it 

 gained any vertebrate inhabitants. The presence of insects in 

 Devonian and Silurian strata proves this. It must have possessed 

 much food material, both vegetable and animal, and it is hard Im- 

 probable that the active fish forms of the earty seas made no 

 effort to obtain a share of this food. Long ages passed during 

 which we have no evidence of land animals higher than insects 

 or snails. It is highl}' probable that many fishes gained the habit 

 of leaving the water temporarily for the land in search of food 

 during this period. We know that many fishes do so now, and that 

 some even climb trees, in spite of the rnany dangerous foes that 

 now exist on land. In the era referred to there were no such 

 dangerous foes. Such fishes as left the sea for the land would find 

 only food to repay their enterprise. Thus there must have been 

 a powerful inducement for fishes to assume this habit. 



The indications, however, do not lead to the idea that the 

 original development of an air-breathing organ was due to occa- 

 sional visits from sea to shore. Such an organ must have slowly 

 developed under the pressure of less extreme changes of condi- 

 tions. It probably arose through the effect of such influences as 

 still act upon fish, and force them to occasionally breathe air ; 

 such as foul or muddy water, or a lack of proper aeration arising 

 from any cause. Another important influence is the drying-out 

 of pools, by which fish are left in the moist mud until the recur- 

 rence of rains, or are even buried in the dried mud for the six 

 months of the dry season. Such is the case with Lepidosiren, 

 which uses its lungs during this period. In certain other fresh- 

 water fishes, of the family Ophiocephalidae, air is breathed while 

 the mud continues soft enough for the fish to come to the surface, 

 but during the remainder of the dry period it remains in a torpid 

 state. In these fishes the air is breathed into a simple cavity in 

 the pharynx, whose opening is partly closed by a fold of the 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



mucous membrane. In the family Labyrinthici the accessory 

 breathing cavity becomes an organ, with thin lamina 1 or plates, 

 which undoubtedly perform an oxygenating function. This organ 

 is greatly developed in Anabas scandens, the Climbing Perch. In 



addition t<> these there are eases in which fish have drying pools, 

 and migrate for a considerable distance overland in search of 

 water, with no breathing organ but the gills. 



[f even now, when the land is everywhere occupied with active 

 and dangerous foes, so many fish find occasion to venture on 

 shore, it i- quite probable that in the early period, when it conld 

 he visited without danger, very many lishes may have paid tem- 

 porary visits to the land. And if now. under this influence, and 

 that of drying pools and stagnant water, many fish have acquired 

 a partial air-breathing habit, this was far more likely to take 

 place under the more favorable conditions of ancient times. It 

 seems quite possible that the development of the air-bladder was 

 due to influences of this character. The occasional habit of 

 breathing air is quite common with fish, especially of fresh-water 

 species. Cuvier remarks that air is perhaps necessary to every 

 kind of fish ; and that, particularly when the atmosphere is warm, 

 most of our lacustrine species sport on the surface for no other 

 purpose. 



It may be even possible to draw a hypothetical scheme of the 

 original process of development of the air-bladder as a breathing 

 organ. Embryology indicates that its existence began in an 

 eversion of the intestinal canal, in its (esophageal portion, and 

 that this gradually became an air-bladder with its pneumatic duct. 

 It may have had its primal form in a simple pharyngeal cavity, 

 like that of the Ophiocephaluhe. partly closed otf from the food- 

 passage by a fold of the mucous membrane. A step further 

 would reduce this membraneous fold to a narrow opening, leading 

 to an inner pouch. From such a condition the development of 

 the Ganoid air-bladder, with its pneumatic duct of greater or less 

 length, is a probable and natural one, and is sustained by embryo- 

 logical evidence. Though we do not possess the intermediate 

 steps, and the breathing organ of the Labyrinthici is a specialized 

 apparatus aside from this line of progress, yet the breathing pouch 

 of the Ophiocephalida' is in the direct line of development of the 

 Ganoid air-bladder. We can scarcely look upon it as in any 

 sense a survival of the archseic air-breathing organ. It is more 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



probably a modern reproduction from the action of similar causes, 

 of the first existing stage of an air-breathing apparatus. And 

 though it is hardly probable that the reproduction is an exact one, 

 yel it may not be very divergent from the original organ. Thus 

 from a simple pouch in the wall of the (esophagus may have 

 arisen, by successive steps, the air-bladder, with its pneumatic 

 duct, its compressing muscle and its plexus of blood capillaries. 

 And this may have unfolded, through further successive steps, 

 several of which vet exist, into a lung like that of Lepidosiren. 

 Thus we seem to possess existing representatives of every impor- 

 tant phase in lung development, from that in which the simple 

 wall of the intestine performed an air-breathing function, to the 

 lung of the batrachian. 



In this view of the cast', the original lung was a simple, smooth- 

 walled bladder, provided with abundant vessels to subserve blood- 

 aeration, with muscles to aid in inhalation and exhalation, and 

 with an air-duct opening into the oesophagus on its dorsal aspect. 

 This dorsal connection may have arisen from the upward pressure 

 of the air in the swimming fish, which would tend to give this 

 position to the original intestinal pouch. But when any fish came 

 to frequently visit the shore two new influences necessarily came 

 into play. The effect of gravity on the growing organ would 

 tend to drag it and its duct from the dorsal to the ventral posi- 

 tion. And the increased use of the bladder in breathing must 

 have required a more extended surface. It first grew cellular, then 

 the cells became laterally-arranged pouches. Finally a constric- 

 tion of the wall separated these Lateral pouches, and two chambers 

 were produced. Of every stage of this process instances still 

 exist, and there is much reason to believe that the development 

 of the lung followed the path here pointed out. 



At the opening of the Carboniferous era there may have been 

 many lung- and gill-breathing Dipnoi, finned Batrachians as we 

 may call them, who spent much of their life on shore. And their 

 habit of land-life would naturally be attended by a gradual change 

 of the fins into better walking organs, from which by a long con- 

 tinued process of evolution, may have arisen the leg and foot of 

 the primordial batrachian. For this purpose to become fully 

 achieved, however, the development of an internal bony skeleton 

 was oecessary, and with the completion of this step of evolu- 

 tion the lung-breathing fish probably directly unfolded into the 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



batrachian. But from that time forward the dominion of the Iish 

 on the land must have steadily decreased. The fin could not 

 compete with the leg and foot as an organ of land motion, and 

 the Dipnoid fishes were probably driven back to the water. As 

 a result of this change of condition a retrogressive evolution 

 took place in the air-breathing organ. Some fishes continued to 

 use it occasionally as a lung, of which we have instances in the 

 modern Dipnoi. Yet with the Ganoids, as a rule, it probably 

 never attained a lung-like development, and was used only for 

 temporary breathing purposes. This is its condition in most of 

 the few existing Ganoids. But with their successors, the Teleos- 

 teans, it lias lost all air-breathing capabilities, and has passed 

 through every stage of degeneration, from a condition closely 

 resembling that of the Ganoids to complete extinction. And in 

 this process of degeneration it has been, in certain cases, adapted 

 to minor uses, some of the most probable of which have been 

 above enumerated, while there ma}' be others as yet unknown 

 to us. 



A consideration of the gaseous contents of the air-bladder may 

 lead to a conception of one such possible use. It is somewhat 

 remarkable that it contains nearly pure nitrogen in fresh-water 

 forms, while in the deep-swimming sea fish oxygen forms its main 

 contents, often to a very large percentage. There must be some 

 sufficient cause of this difference of contents. It is not due to 

 any difference in the gases contained in water at various depths, 

 for the percentage of nitrogen is closely the same at all depths, 

 while oxygen diminishes in quantity from the surface downward. 

 Thus, if its contents depended on the relative quantity of gases 

 present, nitrogen should predominate below as well as above. It 

 is probable, however, thai the presence of oxygen in the bladder 

 of deep-sea fishes is really due to the smaller quantity of oxygen 

 there present in the water. The bladder may serve as a comple- 

 mentary aerating apparatus, as suggested by Semper, a reservoir 

 of oxygen for the use of the Iish during sleep, or when, from any 

 cause, no1 actively breathing, or in poorly aerated water. Such a 

 fund ion would be of little or no importance to surface fish, which 

 can readily obtain water rich in oxygen. Ami these fish, for this 

 reason, may secrete only the useless nil rogen into the air-bladder. 

 But for deep-water fishes this function may be highly necessary. 

 When actively breathing they probablj obtain little more ox3*gen 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 135 



than is required for immediate use. And the small excess gained 

 may be secreted into the air-bladder as a reservoir, to be taken 

 up again by the blood during inactivity of the breathing function. 

 This seems probable from what Cuvier tells us, that when a fish 

 is deprived of the swim-bladder, the product of carbonic acid by 

 the branchiae is very trifling. We cannot imagine such a result 

 unless the bladder in some way supplies oxygen to the blood. If 

 this be the case, the air-bladder still performs, in an indirect 

 manner, its probable original function of a breathing organ. 



If the 113-pothesis here offered be a well-founded one, an inter- 

 esting conclusion as to the process of organic evolution involved 

 may be taken. For we would have the air-breathing function at 

 first performed by the unchanged walls of the oesophagus. Then 

 this became pouched. Then the pouch became constricted off, 

 with a duct of connection. Then the duct disappeared, as the 

 original function vanished, and what was originally a portion of 

 the wall of the intestinal canal, became a separate internal sac. 

 Then this sac decreased in size, until in some instances it became 

 a closed internal bladder, of the size of a pea, far removed from 

 and utterly disconnected with its place of origin. Finally it 

 completely vanished. This process, if correctly drawn, certainly 

 forms a very remarkable organic cycle of development and 

 degeneration, which probably has no counterpart of a similarly 

 striking character in the whole circle of organic life. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



ON THE GENUS APHREDODERUS. 

 BY WILLIS S. BLATCHLEY. 



With a view to ascertaining whether more than one species of 

 Pirate Perch {Aphredoderus Le Sueur) exists in our waters, I 

 have compared numerous specimens from various localities of 

 the United States, in the Museum of the Indiana University. 



I find individual variations, but no constant differences distin- 

 guishing Eastern, Western or Southern forms of this species 

 from one another. 



Since the variation in the position of the vent, upon which the 

 nominal genus Sternotremia Nelson was based, has been shown 

 by Profs. Forbes and Jordan to depend upon the age of the fish, 

 there is, in my estimation, but one species, Aphredoderus sayanus, 

 belonging to the genus. 



The following is the synonymy of the genus and species :. — 



Aphredoderus (Le Sueur) Cuv. ,t Val., Hist. Nat.des Poiss., ix, L833, 115 (gibbosus). 

 Aphredodirus Cope, Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, L870, 455 (emended orthography). 

 Sternotremia Nelson, Bull. Til. Lab. Nat. Hist., i. 1876, 39 (isolepia). 

 Aphododerus Jordan, Annals X. Y. Acad. Sei., i. 1 s 7 7 , No. 4, 101 (emended 

 orthographj . 



Asternotremia (Nelson), Jordan, Bull U. S. Nat. Muf., x, 1S77, il {isolepia: 

 emended meaning). 



Aphrodedirus .Ionian, Proc. icad. Nat. Sri. Phil., 1877, 60 (emended orthographj . 



Aphredoderus sayanus. 



Scolopsia sayanus Gilliams, Join-. Acad. Mat. Sei. Phila., iv. 1824, si 

 1 Harrowgate, Pa. i. 



Aphredoderus sayanus De Kay, N. Y\ Fauna, Fishes, 184'2. 35; Baird, 

 Ninth SinilliM.il. Kept.. 1855, 326 (Cedar Swamp Cr., Cape May Co., 

 N. J.); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mas., i. 1859, 271 ; A-bbott, Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila.. 1861, 95 (Camden, N". J., Habits of A. sayanus); 

 Co] e, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1865, 274 (Streams of Lowlands of 

 N. .1. and Del.); Putnam, Amer. Nat., Jan., 1872,3."); Jordan & 

 Copeland, Check List. L876, 139; Hay, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., iii, 

 1880, 501, 515 Noxubee 1!.): Jordan. Geol. Kept. Ohio, iv, L882, 920; 

 Hay, Bull. U. S. Fish. Com., ii. 1882, 64, M (R. at Vicksburg and 

 Memphis, Big Black R., Pearl R., Tombigbee R., Chickasawha R.); 

 Jordan <& Gilbert, Synopsis Fish. \. A.. 1882, L60 ; Bean, Cat. Fish. 

 International Fish Exhibition, London, 1883, 82 (Vaughan's, Mis-. : 

 Forbes, Studies f F I of Fishes, 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., L883, 66 




15.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rill LA DELPHI A. 13? 



(Anatomy and food oi A. sai/anus) ; Gilbert) Proc. I . S. Nat. Mus., 

 L884, 204 Salt Creek, Brown Co., Ind.). 



Aphredodirus sayanus Cope, Proc Amer. Phil. Soe., 1870, 455 (Tribu- 

 taries Neuse R.. Wake Co., N. C). 



Aplwdoderus sayanus Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sei., i, 18TT, No. 4, 

 101 (Delaware R., Neuse R.. Miss. R. in Louisiana, Flint R.); 

 Jordan, Annals N. Y. Lye. Nat. Hist., xi, 1877, 308 (Coosa 1!. 

 Jordan, Amer. Nat., Oct., 1877, 613; Jordan, Man. Vert.. 2d ed., 

 1878, 249 ; 3d ed., 1880, 249 ; Jordan & Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., xii, 1878, 41, 47, 89 (Neuse R., Chattahoochee R., Alabama 

 R.): Jordan, Bull. Hayden's Geol. Surv., iv, 1878, 434. 



Aphredoderus gibbosus (Le Sueur), Cuv. & Yal., Hist. Nat. des Poiss.. 

 ix. 1833, 448 (Lake Pontchartrain). 



Sternotremia isolepis Nelson, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., i, 1870, 39 

 (Calumet R., 111.); Jordan & Copeland, Check List, 1876, 139; 

 Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, 61. 



Astern otremia isolepis (Nelson), Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., x. 

 1877, 51 (Tributaries Ohio R.). 



Aplwdoderus isolepis Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., i, 1877, No. 4, 101 

 (Wabash R., Maumee R., Calumet R., Streams of S. 111., Arkansas 

 R.) ; Jordan, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 48 (Calumet R., 

 Wabash R. at Mt. C'armel, Streams of S. 111.; Variation in position 

 of vent) ; Forbes, Bull. 111. Lab. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 77, 84 (Food of 

 A. isolepis, and account of change in position of vent) ; Jordan, 

 Man. Vert., 2d ed , 1878, 249; Jordan, Bull. Hayden's Geol. Surv., 

 iv, 1878, 434. 



Aphrodedirus cookianus Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.,. 1877, 60 

 (Sawyer's Cr., Kendallville, Ind.). 



Aplwdoderus cookianus Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., ix, 1877, 49 

 (Wabash R.) ; Jordan, Bull. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., x, 1877, 52. 



Asternotremia mesotrema, Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., x, 1877. 52 

 (Little Red R., Arkansas). 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A REVIEW OF THE GENUS PHRYNOSOMA. 

 BY ALAN F. GENTRY. 



Phrynosoma Wiegmann, in Oken, Lis. xxi, 1S28, p. .">fi7: Wagler, Natnrl. Syst. Amph., 

 L830, p. 145; Gruy, Cat. Liz. Brit. Mus., 1845, p. 227: Dumeril .1 Bibron, Erpet. 

 gener., iv, 18J7, p. 311; Holbrook, N. A. Berp., ii, 1842, p. 85 ; Fitzinger, Syst. 

 Kept., 184.1, p. 78; A. Dumt'iil, Cat. Moth. Rept., i, 1851, p. 78; Girard, Stans. 

 Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt Luke, 1852, p. 354; (iirard, Herp. U. S. Expl. Exped., 

 1 s 5 •< , p. 388; Dumeril <t Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. Crnt., 1870, p. 

 217; Cope, Chock List X. A. Batrach and Rept.. 1875, p. 19. 



Anota Eallovell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1832, p. 182. 



Gen. Char. — Head short, cordiform, elevated at the vertex, and 

 armed behind and on the sides with strong spines, variable in 

 length and number. Cephalic plates small, rugose and polygonal. 

 Palatine teeth wanting. Gular fold present. Auricular aperture 

 inconspicuous in certain species, or entirely absent. Body short, 

 rounded, depressed, and ordinarily fringed. Dorsal and caudal 

 crests lacking. Limbs short, digits moderately developed. Tail 

 comparatively short. Femoral pores present, but anal wanting. 



This genus, which is probably the best defined and the most 

 strikingly distinct of its family, is wholly restricted to North 

 America. Its northernmost range, so far as has been determined, 

 is the boundary line between the United States and the British 

 possessions, Dr. Coues having met with it in the region of the 

 Milk River during the summer of 1814, while its southern limit 

 is the scope of country that occupies the terminus of Mexico. 

 Montana, Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Indian Territory. Texas, 

 and the countries stretching thence to the Pacific, are the only 

 portions of the Union, as far as are known, that have yielded evi- 

 dences of its existence. Of the many specie- which have been 

 described from this area, but twelve seem to me as valid, seven 

 being denizens of the United States, and the residue of the table- 

 lands Of Mexico. 



While differing from previous writers in an estimate of the 

 number of species, 1 am consl rained to disallow any separation of 

 the genus into subgenera, as has been done by GKrard, and by 

 Dumeril and Bocourt, since the characters upon which they are 

 founded are not sufficiently strong to warranl such a division. 

 The interests of science are doubtless best subserved by consider- 

 ing bul a single undivided genus, whose species-representatives, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



with their most salient marks of distinction, 1 shall now proceed 

 to tabulate. 



Synopsis of Species. 



I. Nostrils lateral ; opening on the anterior extremity of the 



superciliary ridge. 



A. A single row of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the 



abdomen ; gular scales subequal; abdominal scales smooth. 



1. Cephalic spines very short and tubercular ; oceipitals less 



prolonged than the longest of the temporals, posteri- 

 orly ; head broader than long. • Douglassi. 1. 



2. Cephalic spines of medium length ; occipital spines 



directed obliquely upwards, and a little less prolonged 

 than the longest of the temporals, posteriorly ; head 

 broader than long. Boucardi. 2. 



3. Cephalic spines of medium length ; occipital spines hori- 



zontal, more prolonged than the longest of the tempor- 

 als, posteriorly ; head as broad as long, orbicular e. 3. 



B. Two rows of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdo- 



men ; three or four rows of enlarged pointed gular scales 

 upon each side of the median line. 



1. Abdominal scales smooth ; cephalic spines to the number 



of twelve or thirteen ; occipital spines horizontal or 

 nearly so. coronatum. i. 



2. Abdominal scales carinated ; cephalic spines eight in 



number; occipital spines vertical. asio. 5. 



II. Nostrils anterior ; situated within the superciliary ridge ; two 



rows of enlarged gular scales, one row on each side of, and 

 distant from, the median line. 

 A. Two rows of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdo- 

 men ; auricular opening conspicuous. 



1. Abdominal scales carinated, sometimes smooth or nearly 



so ; occipital spines directed obliquely backward, much 

 longer than the longest of the temporals, from which 

 they are separated by one or two flattened scales. 



cornutum. 6. 



2. Abdominal scales carinated ; cephalic spines forming with 



the inframaxillary plates a continuous circular series ; 

 occipital spines projecting posteriorly as far as, and 

 not separated from, the longest of the temporals. 



regale. 1. 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



B. One row of pyramidal scales al the periphery of the abdo- 



men : auditory aperture conspicuous. 



a. Abdominal scales carinated ; tail very short, not 

 equal in length to the femur. 



1. One temporal on each side strongly developed and coni- 



cal, very much more prolonged posteriorly than the 

 occipitals, which are small. taunts. 8. 



2. Temporal spines moderate, flattened, four or five on each 



side, scarcely projecting beyond the occipitals, poste- 

 riorly. Braconnieri. 9. 

 6. Abdominal scales smooth ; tail of ordinary length ; 

 occipital spines projecting beyond the longest of 

 the temporals, posteriorly. platyrhinos. It). 



C. No pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdomen ; 



auditory aperture sometimes absent on one or both sides 

 in modest um ; alwa3'S absent in Mac c alii ; abdominal 

 scales smooth. 



1. Occipital spines short, projecting about as far as the 



longest temporal, posteriorly; one row of enlarged 

 gular scales next to the inframaxillary plates. 



modes/ ma. 11. 



2. Occipital spines very long and recurved, projecting much 



farther than the longest temporal, posteriorly; one 

 row of enlarged gular scales on each side, distant from 

 the inframaxillary plate. Maccalli. 12. 



1. Phrynosoma Douglassi. 



Agatna, Douglassi Bell, Trans. Linn. Soc. Lond., xvi, L828 3 \>. 105, pi. 

 x; Harlan, Med. and Phys. Researches, L835, p. 141. 



Phrgnoxoma Douglassi Wagler, Naturl. Syst. Amph., ls:',0, p. 146; 

 Gray, Griff, Anim. King., i\, L831, p. II: Wiegmann, fferp. Mex., 

 1834, \k 5 I ; Dumeril & Bibron, Erpet. gener., iv. 1837, p. 323; 

 Holbrook, N. Am. Herp., ii. 1842, \>. 101, pi. \i\ ; Dekay, Zool. New 

 Fork, iii. 1842, p. 31 ; Fitzinger, Syst. Rept., i. 1843, p. 78; Gray, 

 Cat. Liz, Brit. Mus., L845, p. 227 ; A.ug. Dumeril, Cat. Meth. Coll. 

 Rept. Mus. Paris, 1851, \>. 78; Girard, Stans. Expl, Vail. Gt. Salt 

 Lake. L852, p. 362, pi. \ii, figs. 6 9; A.ug. Dumeril, Arch. Mus. 

 Hist. Nat. \iii. I^.")ti. p. 554 ; < lope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 1'liila., 

 1866, p. 302; Mien, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xvii, 1874, p. 69 ; 

 t lope, Am. Nat.. \ii. 1879, p. 135. 



Phrynosoma orbiculare Hallowell, Sitgreaves' Expl. Zuni and Col. Riv., 

 L853, p. 125, pi. viii and ix. 




L885. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



Tapaya Dougiassi Girard, Herp. l • s - Ex Pl- Exped., 1858, p. 398, pi. 

 xxi, fig. 1-5 ; Baird, P. R. R. Rep., x. 1859, Gunnison & Beckwith's 

 Route, Rept., p. 18 : /</.. Williamson & Abbott's Route, Rept., \>. 9 ; 

 Cooper A Suckley, Nat. Hist. Wash. Terr., I860, \>. 294 ; Dumeril .V 

 Bocourt, Miss. Sci. an Mex. el Am. ('cut. Rept., lsnt. p. 226, pi. xi, 

 fig. ."). 



Tapaya brerirostre Girard, Herp. V. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. :»07 ; 

 Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, i>. 302. 



Tap"//a Hemandesi Girard, Herp, U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 395; 

 Baird, C. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., ii, pt. ii. 1859, p. 8. 



Tapaya ornatissima Girard, Herp. V. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 396; 

 Baird, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv.. ii. pt. ii. 1859, p. 9; Baird, P. 

 R. R. Rep., x, 1859, Whipple's Route, Kept., p. 38; Demeril & 

 Bocourt, Miss. Sci. an Mex. el Am. Cent. Rept., 1870, p. 227, pi. xi, 

 fiy. li. 



Phrynosoma Dougiassi, subsp. Dougiassi Cope, ClieckListN.A. Batracli. 

 and Rept., 187o. p. 49; Yarrow, U. S. Geol. Surv. west of the 100th 

 Meridian, v, 1875, p. 580 ; Coues, op. cit.. p. 590 : Coues A: Yarrow, 

 Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. of Terr., iv, 1878, p. 285. 



Phrgnosoma Dougiassi, subsp. ornatissvma Cope, Check List N. Am. 

 Batrach. and Rept., 1878, p. 49 ; Yarrow, U. S. Geol. Surv. west of 

 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 581 ; Coues, op. cit., p. 591 ; Coues & 

 Yarrow, Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. of Terr., iv. 1878, p. 286. 



Phrynosoma Dougiassi pygmma Yarrow, Bull. 1". S. Nat. Mus., v. 

 1882, p. 443. 



Head broader than long ; nostrils lateral, opening upon the 

 anterior extremity of the superciliary ridge ; cephalic spines small 

 and tuberculous ; occipital spines more prolonged than the longest 

 temporal, posteriorly ; last three or four sublabial scales on each 

 side, enlarged and pointed ; submaxillary plates small and sub- 

 equal, about the size of the posterior sublabials ; a conical scale 

 at the angle of the mouth ; gular scales nearly equal, the row 

 next to the inframaxillary plates slightly largest ; . one row of 

 pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdomen; abdominal 

 scales smooth ; back armed with several rows of spiny scales ; tail 

 of medium length, similar to back above, smooth beneath, and 

 fringed laterally with conical spines. 



Habitat. — Washington Territory, Oregon, California, Montana, 

 Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Indian Territory, Texas, Wyoming, 

 Colorado, Utah, and New Mexico. 



A careful study of Dougiassi, and an institution of comparison 

 between its characters and those of Hernandezi, convince me 

 that the two are identical. The row of enlarged gular scales 




142 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



next to the inframaxillary plates, as given by Girard as a mark 

 of distinction, is also found in Douglassi. The abdominal scales 

 are spoken of as being acuminate, and such is the case with 

 those of the upper portion of the belly in Douglassi, although 

 lower down they are somewhat obtuse. 



Bel ween Douglassi and the subspecies ornatissima and pygmeea, 

 of some authors, I can perceive no differences. Examina- 

 tions of numerous specimens in the collection of the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia, from all parts of its 

 extended habitat, convince me that there are no fixed discrimi- 

 nating characters, not even of size, as the smaller northern forms 

 are found to grade imperceptibly into their larger southern 

 neighbors. And, as pygmsea was described from the region of 

 the Columbia River, and ornatissima from New Mexico, the 

 former as small and the latter as large, and corresponding 

 otherwise as they do with Douglassi, there is good reason for con- 

 sidering them onby as extreme forms of this species. 



2. Phrynosoma Boucardi 



I'upaya Boucardi Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. Cent. 

 Kept., 18T0, p. 225, pi. xi, fig. 4. 



Head broader than long ; cephalic spines of medium length ; 

 occipital spines directed nearly vertically upwards, not pro- 

 longed as far posteriorly as the longest temporal; sublabials 

 small, increasing in size posteriorly ; inframaxillary plates some- 

 what smaller than the posterior sublabials ; no enlarged pointed 

 gular scales ; one row of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the 

 abdomen; abdominal scales smooth; back with numerous spinous 

 scales ; tail of ordinary length, similar to the body, with but few 

 spines along the margin. 



Habitat. — Plateau of Mexico. 



This species is very easily separated from its nearest allies, 

 Douglassi and orbicularis, by the character of the occipital 

 spines. In the two latter these spines are directed nearly hori- 

 zontally backward, while in the present species the}' project 

 nearly vertically upward. 



:;. Phrynosoma orbicularis. 



Lacertus orbicularis Hernandez, Nov. Plant. Anim. Min. Mex., \\i, 1651, 

 p. 327, fig; Linnaeus, Syst. Nat.. 1789, p. L061 ; Cuvier, Regn. 

 Anim., ii, 1817, ].. 35; Id., Sded., ii, L819, i». 37, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



Agama orbicularis Daudin, Hist. Nat. Rept., iii. 1805, p. 406; Voigt, 



Ucbcrs. Thierr. Cuv., ii, 1831, p. 54. 

 Phrynosoma orbiculare Wiegmann, in Oken., Isis, xxi, 1828, p. 367; 



Wagler, Naturl. Syst. Amph., 1830, p. 14G; Gray, Grill'. Anim. 



King., ix, 1831, p. 45; Wagler, Descr. and Lou. Amph., 1*33, pi. 



xxiii, figs. 1 and 2 : Schinz, Naturg. und Abild. der Rept., 1833, p. 



88, pi. xxvii, fig. 2 : Gravenhorst, Act. Acad. Cses. Leop. Carol. Nat. 



Cur.. \\i. pt. ii, 1833, p, 912, pi. Ixiii ; Wiegmann, Herp. Mex., 1834, 



p. 53 : Dumeril & Bibron, Erpet. gener., iv, 1837, p. 321 ; Gray, Cat. 



Liz. Brit. Mus., 1845, p. 228; Aug. Dumeril, Cat. Meth. Coll. Rep. 



Mus. Paris, 1851, p. 78; Girard, Stans. Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt Lake, 



1852, p. 359 ; Sumiehrast, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xiii, 1864, p. 



507 ; Peters, Berlin Monatsb., 1869, p. 875 ; Midler, Verh. Natur. 



Gesell., Basel, 1878, p. 634 ; AVeidersheim, Zool. Anz., i, 1878, p. 105. 

 Phrynosoma Wiegmanni Gray, Beechey's Voy. Pacif. Zool., 1839, p. 96. 

 Tapaya orbicularis Girard, Herp. U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 394 : 



Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Bci. an Mex. et Am. Cent. Rept., 1870, p. 



221, pi. xi, fig. 1. 



Tapaya orbicularis, var. Cortczi Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. 



' et Amer. Cent. Kept., 1S70, p. 223, pi. xi, fig. 2. 

 Tapaya orbicularis, var. Dugesi Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. 

 et Am. Cent. Kept., 1870, p. 224, pi. xi, fig. 3. 



Head as broad as long ; cephalic spines moderately developed ; 

 occipital spines equal to, or a little more prolonged than, the 

 longest of the temporals, posteriorly ; sublabial plates very 

 small ; a large conical scale at the angle of the mouth ; infra- 

 maxillary plates small, equal in size to the posterior sublabials ; 

 one row of pj^ramidal scales at the periphery of the abdomen ; 

 abdominal scales smooth ; back spinous; tail of ordinary length, 

 similar to the bocl3', and sparsely fringed with conical scales. 



Habitat. — The plateaus of Mexico. 



4. Phrynosoma coronatum. 



Phrynosoma coronatum Blainville, Nouv. Ann. Hist. Nat., iv, 1835, p. 

 284, pi. xxv, fig. Irtand6c; Dumeril & Bibron, Erpet. gener., iv, 

 1837, p. 318 ; Holbrook, N. A. Herp., ii, 1842, p. 97, pi. xiii ; Dekay, 

 Zool. New York, iii, 1842, p. 31 ; Aug. Dumeril, Cat. Meth. Coll. 

 Rept. Mus. Paris, 1851, p. 7s ; Girard, Stans. Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt 

 Lake, 1852, p. 300, pi. viii, figs. 7 1 2 ; Hallowell, Sitgreaves' Exped. 

 Zuni and Colorado Riv., 1853, p. 122 ; Sanders, Proc. Zool. Soc. 

 Lond., 1874, p. 71-78 (Myology); Cope, Check List of N". A. Batrach. 

 and Rept., 1875, p. 50 ; Lockington, Am. Nat., xiv, 1880, p. 295. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Phrynosoma Blainmllei Gray, Beechey's Voy. Pacif. Zool., 1839. p. 96> 

 pi. xxix, fig. 1 ; Gray, Cat. Liz. Brit. Mus., 1845, p. 228 ; Cope, Check 

 List N. A. Batrach. and Kept., 1875, p. 49; Yarrow, U. S. Geol. 

 Surv. west of 100 Meridian, v, 1875, p. 582. 



Batrachosoma coronatum Fitzinger, Syst. Kept., i, L843, p. 79 ; Girard, 

 Ilerp. U. S. Expl. Expecl., 1858, p. 400, pi. xx, figs. 10-13; Dumeril 

 & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. an Mex. el Am. Cent., 1870, p. 239, pi. xii, 

 fig. lit. 



Eead la rue ; nostrils lateral ; cephalic spines strongly developed ; 

 occipital spines separated from each other by a single plate or 

 small spine, directed horizontally backward, beyond the longest 

 temporals; snblabial plates small; a large flattened scale at the 

 angle of the mouth ; inframaxillary plates beneath it very small, 

 the others large and sharp-edged ; three or four rows of enlarged 

 pointed gular scales upon each side of, and separated by, the 

 median line ; two rows of pyramidal scales at the periphery of 

 the abdomen ; abdominal scales smooth ; back spinous ; tail of 

 ordinaiy length, similar to the body, fringed with conical spines. 



Habitat. — Oregon and California. 



In coronatum the plate or scale that separates the two occipital 

 -j lines shows intermediate gradations between a nearly flattened 

 and a tubercular and even spiny surface. Therefore, the posses- 

 sion of a flattened scale by a specimen, which was the leading 

 character upon which Blainvillei was established, loses its impor- 

 tance and necessitates its incorporation with the species under 

 consideration. 



:>. Phrynosoma asio. 



Phrynosoma asio Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18G4, p. 178 ; 



Sumiclirast, Bibl. Univers. et Rev. Suisse, 1873, p. 258; Sumichrast, 



Bull. Soc. Zool. Fr., 1880, p. 177. 

 Phrynosoma spinimentum Peters. Berlin Monatsb., 1873, p. 742. 

 Batrachosoma asio Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. 



Cent., 1870, p. 211, pi. xvii, fig. 0. 



Head large; nostrils lateral; cephalic spines well developed ; 

 occipital spines vertical, separated from each other by four or 

 five small plates; temporal spines separated from the occipitals, 

 and directed horizontally backward; sublabials small; infra- 

 maxillary plates increasing in size posteriorly; three or four 

 rows of enlarged pointed subgular scales on each side of, and 

 separated by, the median line; two rows of pyramidal scales at 

 the periphery of the abdomen; abdominal scales carinated; hack 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



spinous ; tail of medium length, similar to the body, and margined 

 with conical scales. 



Habitat. — Tehuantepec, Mexico. 



This large and beautiful species is most nearly allied to coro- 

 natam, from which it is separated by the character of the cephalic 

 spines, and also that of the abdominal scales. It is also closely 

 related to the succeeding species, differing, however, in the posi- 

 tion of the nostrils, and in the number and position of the rows 

 of enlarged gular scales. 



6. Phrynosoma cornutum. 



Agcnna comuta Harlan, Journal Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., iv, 1825, p. 

 299, pi. xx. 



Lacerta comuta Cuv., Regn. Anim., 2d edit., ii, 1819, p. 37. 



Phrynosoma cornutum Gray, Griff. Anim. King., ix, 1831, p. 45 ; Hol- 

 brook, N. Am. Herp., ii, 1842, p. 87, pi. xi ; Dekay, Zool. New York, 

 iii, 1842, p. 31; Gray, Cat. Liz. Brit. Mus., 1845, p. 229; Girard, 

 Stans. Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt Lake, 1852, p. 360, pi. viii, figs. 1-6 ; 

 Blanchard, Organ. Regn. Anim., 1852, pt. v, pi. xii ; Hallowell, Sit- 

 greaves' Exped. Zuni and Col. Rivers, 1853, p. 119 ; Girard, Herp. 

 U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 403, pi. xxi, figs. 6-9 ; Baird, U. S. and 

 Mex. Bound. Surv., pt. ii, 1859, p. 9 ; Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. 

 au Mex. et Am. Cent., Rept., 1870, p. 236, pi. xii, fig. 9 ; Cope, Check 

 List N. A. Batrach. and Rept., 1875, p. 49 ; Yarrow, U. S. Geol. 

 Surv. west of 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 579 ; Midler, Verh. Nat. 

 Gesell., Basel, 1878, p. 634 ; Cope, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc, 1879, p. 261; 

 Cope, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 17, 1880, p. 17. 



Phrynosoma Harlani Wiegmann, Herp. Mex., i, 1834, p. 54 ; Dumeril 

 & Bibron, Erpet. gener., iv, 1837, p. 314 ; Spring & Lacordaire, 

 Bull. Acad. Roy. Brussels, 1842, pt. ii, p. 192, fig. 2 ; Aug. Dumeril, 

 Cat. Meth. Coll. Rept. Mus. Paris, 1851, p. 28. 



Tropidogaster cornutus Fitzinger, Sys. Rept., i, 1843, p. 79. 



Phrynosoma planiceps Hallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852, p. 

 178 ; Hallowell, Sitgreaves' Exped. Zuni and Col. Rivers, 1853, p. 124, 

 pi. vii ; Dumeril, Arch. Mus. Hist. Nat., viii, 1855, p. 552 ; Dumeril 

 & Bocourt, Miss. Sci.au Mex. et Am. Cent., 1870, p. 238, pi. xii, 

 fig. 11 ; Cope, Check List N. A. Batrach. and Rept., 1875, p. 49 ; 

 Yarrow, TJ. S.Geol. Surv. west of 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 579, 

 pi. xxiv, fig. 1 ; Coues, in the above, p. 593. 



Head broad ; nostrils anterior, placed Avithin the superciliary 

 ridges ; cephalic spines strongly developed ; occipital spines long, 

 directed obliquely upward, a smaller spine between the two ; pos- 

 terior inframaxillary plates largest ; one row of enlarged pointed 

 gular scales on each side, distant from the median line ; two rows 



11 




146 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdomen ; abdominal 

 scales carinated, occasionally smooth or nearly so ; back with 

 several rows of spiny scales ; tail of ordinary length, similar to 

 the body, and fringed with conical scales. 



Habitat. — Kansas, Indian Territory, Texas, and Js'ew Mexico. 

 Possibly from Arkansas and Louisiana. 



The only dilference between cornutum and the supposed species 

 planiceps, was in the character of the abdominal scales, the former 

 being carinated, and the latter smooth. Prof. Cope, however, 

 after examining numbers of specimens, finds that the above forms 

 grade into each other, and, consequently, considers them but one 

 species. 



7. Phrynosoma regale. 



Phrynosoma regale G-irard, Herp. U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 406 ; 

 Baird, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., 1859, pt. ii, p. 9, pi. xxviii, fig. 

 1-3 ; Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 310 ; Dumeril & Bo- 

 court, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. Cent. Rept., 1870, p. 235, pi. xii, 

 fig. 12 ; Cope, Check List N. A. Batrach. and Rept., 1875, p. 49 ; Yar- 

 row, U. S. Geol. Surv. west of the 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 578 ; 

 Coues, in the above work, p. 593 ; Midler, Verh. Nat. Gesell., Basel, 

 1878, p. 634 ; Lockington, Am. Nat., 1880, p. 295. 



" Phrynosoma Solaris Gray, Cat. Liz. Brit. Mus., 1845, p. 229?" 



Head large ; nostrils anterior ; cephalic spines strongly devel- 

 oped, directed backwards ; the longest two of the temporals being 

 in the same plane as, and touching, the occipitals, all four being 

 subequal ; no plate or scale separating the occipital spines ; two 

 rows of enlarged pointed gular scales, one on each side of, and 

 distant from, the median line ; last inframaxillary plate smaller 

 than the preceding ; two rows of pyramidal scales at the periphery 

 of the abdomen, lower one very small ; abdominal scales carinated ; 

 back spinous ; tail of medium length, similar to the body, and 

 fringed with conical scales. 



Habitat. — Valle}^ of the Gila and Colorado Rivers. 



8. Phrynosoma taurus. 



Phrynosoma taurus Duges MSS., 1868 ; Duges, Cat. Vert. Mex., 1869 ; 

 Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. an Mex. ft Am. Cent. Rept., 1870, p. 

 2!34, pi. xii, fig. 8 ; Duges, La Naturaleza, ii, 1S71-73, p. 302, fig. 



Head broad; nostrils anterior; occipital spines small and coni- 

 cal ; temporals strongly developed, conical, projecting very much 




1885. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 147 



farther posteriorly than the occipitals ; inframaxillary plates 

 nearly equal ; one row of enlarged pointed gular scales upon each 

 side of, and distant from, the median line ; a single row of pyram- 

 idal scales at the periphery of the abdomen ; abdominal scales 

 carinated ; back spinous ; tail very short, about as long as the 

 femur, and with very few conical scales along the margins. 

 Habitat. — Puebla, Southern Mexico. 



9. Phrynosoma Braconnieri. 



Phrynosoma Braconnieri Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et 

 Am. Cent. Rept., 1870, p. 233, pi. xii, fig. 7. 



Head as broad as long ; nostrils anterior ; cephalic spines of 

 medium size ; occipital spines somewhat less prolonged posteriorly 

 than the longest of the temporals ; four or five temporal spines 

 upon each side ; one row of enlarged pointed gular scales upon 

 each side of, and distant from, the median line; inframaxillary 

 plates nearly equal ; a single row of pyramidal scales at the 

 periphery of the abdomen ; abdominal scales carinated ; tail very 

 short, little more than half as long as the femur. 



Habitat. — Oaxaca, Southern Mexico. 



10. Phrynosoma platyrhinos. 



Phrynosoma platyrhinos Girard, Stans. Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt Lake, 1852, 



p. 361, pi. vii, fig. 1-5 ; Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 



oO'i ; Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. Cent. Rept., 



1870, p. 232 ; Cope, Check List N. A. Batrach. and Rept., 1875, p. 



49 ; Yarrow, U. S. Geol. Surv. west of the 100th Meridian, v, 1875, 



p. 577 ; Coues, in the above work, p. 594. 

 Doliosaurus platyrhinos Girard, Herp. U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 409 ; 



Baird, P. R. R. Rept., Gunnison & Beckwith's Route, Rept., 1859, 



p. 18. 



Head small ; nostrils anterior ; cephalic spines of medium size ; 

 occipital spines produced further than the longest of the tem- 

 porals, posteriorly ; sublabial plates nearly equal ; inframaxillary 

 plates becoming larger posteriorly ; one row of enlarged gular 

 scales on each side of, and distant from, the median line ; one 

 row of pyramidal scales at the periphery of the abdomen ; 

 abdominal scales smooth ; back with several rows of spinous 

 scales ; tail of medium length, fringed with conical scales. 



Habitat. — Utah, Nevada, New Mexico, Arizona and California. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



II. Phrynosoma modestum. 

 Phrynosoma modest 'mi Girard, Stans. Expl. Vail. Gt. Salt Lake, 1852, p. 



361, ]>1. vi, fig. 4-8; Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 302; 



Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. an Mex. ct Am. Cent., Kept., INTO, p. 



232; C<>\«: Check List N. A. Batrach. and Rept., 1875, p. 49; 



Yarrow, U. S. Geol. Surv. west of 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 577 ; 



Coues, in the above work, p. 594. 

 Doliosaurus modestus Girard, Ilerp. U. S. Expl. Expcd., 1858, p. 409 ; 



Baird, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., ii, pt. ii, 1859, p. 10 ; Baird, 



P. R. R. Rept., x, 1859, Whipple's Route, Rept., p. 38. 



Head broader than long ; nostrils anterior ; cephalic spines 

 small; occipital spines extending as far as the longest of the 

 temporals, posteriorly ; auricular aperture sometimes wanting on 

 one or both sides, but when present, small and granular ; sub- 

 labial plates small and nearly equal ; inframaxillary plates broad 

 and pointed ; gular scales next to the inframaxillary plates 

 slightly larger than the others ; no pyramidal scales at the periph- 

 ery of the abdomen ; abdominal scales smooth ; back nearly 

 smooth, devoid of conical scales; tail nearly equal in length to 

 the body, a few conical scales along the basal margin. 



Habitat. — Western Texas, Utah, New Mexico and Arizona. 



12. Phrynosoma Maccalli. 



Anota Maccalli Ilallowell, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1852. p. 122 ; 



Hallowell, Sitgreaves' Exped. Zuni and Col. Rivers, 1853, p. 127, pL 



x, figs. 1, 2 ; Dumeril & Bocourt, Miss. Sci. au Mex. et Am. Cent. 



Rept., 1870, p. 230. 

 Doliosavrus Maccalli Girard, Ilerp. U. S. Expl. Exped., 1858, p. 408 ; 



Baird, U. S. and Mex. Bound. Surv., ii, pt. ii, 1859, p. 9, pi. xxviii, 



figs. 4-6. 

 Phrynosoma Maccalli Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1866, p. 310; 



Cope, Check List N. A. Batrach. & Rept., 1875, p. 49 ; Coucs, U. S. 



Geol. Surv. west of 100th Meridian, v, 1875, p. 593. 



Head small; snout truncated ; nostrils anterior; cephalic spines 

 long, strongly developed ; occipital spines slightly recurved ; 

 middle inframaxillary spines broadest and longest; one row of 

 enlarged gular scales upon each side of, and distant from, the 

 median line ; auricular apertures always wanting ; no pyramidal 

 scales at the periphery of the abdomen; abdominal scales smooth ; 

 back smooth as in modestum; tail as long as the body, margined 

 with conical scales. 



Habitat. — Deserts of the Gila and Colorada Rivers. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN GENERA AND SPECIES OF MULLIDiE. 

 BY EDWARD A. HALL AND J. Z. A. McCAUGHAN. 



In the present paper we have attempted to collect the synonym}' 

 of all the American genera and species of the family of Mullidae. 

 All the specimens examined by us belong to the Museum of the 

 Indiana University. 



Analysis of American Genera of Mullidse. 



a. Teeth on lower jaw, vomer and palatines ; upper jaw toothless; 

 caudal lobes equal. Vertebrae 9 + 14 ; the nasal bone, which 

 forms a downward hook over maxillary, strongly developed ; 

 interorbital space flat and wide; opercle without spine. 

 D. VII-I, 8 ; A. II, 6. Mullus. 1. 



aa. Teeth on both jaws ; vomer and palatines toothless. Verte- 

 brae 9 + 14 ; the nasal bone, which forms a downward hook 

 over the maxillary, moderately developed ; interorbital 

 space concave and narrow; opercle ending in a single 

 spine. Upeneus. 2. 



1. MULLUS. 



Mullus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., 1758, ed. 10, 299 {barbatus ; surmuletus). 



The species of this genus, two or three in number, are very 

 closely related. They are chiefly confined to the waters of 

 Europe. 



Analysis of Species of Mullus. 



a. Depth less than 4 in length ; maxillary scarcely reaching front 

 of orbit ; eye much larger than in M. surmuletus, less than 

 5 in head ; barbels scarcely reaching to lower angle of pre- 

 opercle, more than 1^ in head. Scales more deciduous than 

 in M. surmuletus. ( Vinciguerra.) barbatus. 1 



1 For purposes of comparison we insert the characters of this European 

 species as given by Vinciguerra. We have examined no specimens of it. 

 The descriptions given by Guuther and others, of M. surmuletus and M. 

 barbatus, are said to show a confusion of the two forms. 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



aa. Length of head greater than depth of body, 3£ in length of 



body; depth 4 in length; snout 1] in length of body; 



maxillary not quite reaching the vertical from front of 



eye ; eye 5 in head ; interorbital space 12^ in length of 



body ; barbels reaching to a point half-way between angle 



of preopercle and extremity of opercle, 1^ in head. Sides 



of body with three yellow longitudinal" stripes ; first dorsal 



barred with light and black. surmuletus. 1. 



aaa. Length of head about equal to depth of body, about 3f in 



length of body ; snout 7 T 6 o in length of body ; maxillary 



just reaching vertical from front of eye; eye 4 in head; 



interorbital space 14| in length of body ; barbels reaching 



to extremity of opercle, L\ in head ; scales in lateral line 



32. Sides of body with two yellow longitudinal stripes ; 



first dorsal with an orange band at base and a yellow one 



higher up ; second dorsal mottled with scarlet and pale ; 



no black on dorsals. surmuletus auratus. 1 (b). 



1. Mullus surmuletus. 



(a.) Var. surmuletus. 



Trigla capite glabro, Uneis utunque quatuor, luteis longitudinalibus paral- 

 lellis Artcdi, Ichthyol., 1738, 43 (Mediterranean Sea ; Ocean by 

 Cornwall). 



Mullus surmuletus Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., 1758, ed. 10, 300 (Mediter- 

 ranean); Linnaeus, Syst. Nat., 1766, ed. 12, 496 (Mediterranean); 

 Brunich, Ichthyol. Massiliensis, 1768, 72 (Marseilles); Pennant, 

 "Brit. Zool., iii, 1769, 368, pi. 64"; Bloch, Ichthyologia, Taf. 57, 

 1785; Bonnature, "Ichthyol, 1790, 144, pi. 59, fig. 233"; Linnaeus, 

 "Fauna, Suec. ed. Retz, 1800, 341 "; Shaw, "Brit. Zool., iv, 1800, 

 1819, 613, pi. 88"; Bloch & Schneider, Syst. Ichthyol., 1801, 77, 

 Taf. 18; Donovan, "Brit. Fish., i, 1801, pi. 12"; Turton, "Brit. 

 Zool., 1807, 102"; Risso, Ichthyol. de Nice, 1810, 215 (Nice); Mar- 

 tens, "Reise nachVenedig, ii, 1824, 427" (Venice); Fleming, "Brit. 

 An., 1828, 216"; Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss, iii, 1829, 

 433 (Marseilles ; Ivica ; Nice; Naples); Cuvier, Regne Animal, ed. 

 ii, 1829. 



Mullus xurmuletus Lacepede, Poiss., v, 1832, 75 (Mediterranean, Baltic, 

 Atlantic Ocean); Jenyns, "Manual Brit. Vert., 1835,337"; Yarnll. 

 "Brit. Fishes, i, 1841, ill": Guichenot, Explor. Sci. Alger. Poiss., 

 1850, 38 (Algiers); White, "Cat. Brit, Fish., 1851, 14"; Thompson, 

 "Nat. Hist. Ireland, iv, 1856, 70" (Ireland); Giinther, Cat. Fish. 

 Brit. Mus., i, 1859, 401 (Brixham ; British Channel; Medeira, Medi- 

 terranean; Dalmatia); Couch, "Fish. Brit, Isles, i. 1862, 2i>8, pi. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 151 



47"; Collet, Norges Fiske, 1875, 17 (Christianafjord ; Lindesnaes ; 



Bergen): Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 26 (Europe); Vinci- 



guerra, Risult. Ittiol. del Violante. 1883, 41 (Dalmazia ; Marcova, 



Melida; Curzola ; Lissa ; Lagosta and Cazza). 

 Mullus barbatus De la Roche, "Ann. Mus. xiii, 1809, 306"; Gronow, 



Cat. Fish. 1854, 108 ; Steindachner, Uebersicht Meeresfische an 



Kiisten Spaniens und Portugals, 1867, 33 (Cadiz; Lisbon; Gibraltar; 



Tenerifte); Botteri, Cat. Pisci di Lesina, 1873, 60 (Lesina). 

 Mullus barbatus surmuletus Day, Fishes of Great Brit., 1880, 22, pi. 8, 



fig. 2 (Mevagissey). 

 Mullus dubius Malm, "Ofversigt of Kongl. Vet. Akad. Forhandl., 



1852, 224" (Sweden). 



(b.) Var. auratus. 



Mullus barbatus auratus Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 280 (Pensacola); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 931 

 (Pensacola ; Wood's Holl). 



Mullus auratus Jordan Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 39 (Pensacola). 



Habitat. — Var. surmuletus, on all southern and western coasts 

 of Europe, from Sweden to Africa ; the most common species in 

 most parts of Europe. Var. auratus, eastern coast of America, 

 Wood's Holl to Pensacola. 



This form called auratus, has been occasionally taken on our 

 Atlantic and Gulf coasts, but it is evidently rare. The single 

 specimen examined by us came from deep water at Pensacola. 

 It seems to us to be a variety of M. surmuletus rather than a 

 distinct species, and it is certainly nearer M. surmuletus than 31. 

 barbatus, as the latter is described. 



Many European writers have denied the distinctness of M. sur- 

 muletus and M. barbatus. The following account of the two, 

 translated from Vinciguerra's Risultati Ittiologici del Crociere del 

 Violante, seems to give a final answer to the question as to the 

 difference between these two species. 



" No one of the Mediterranean ichthyologists has yet been 

 willing to accept the fusion of these two forms, an opinion which 

 I regard as really incorrect, and caused by the scarcity of M. 

 barbatus in the waters of the Atlantic and Baltic. I have been 

 able to verify, on an extensive series of examples, that in 

 barbatus, as in surmuletus, there exist two forms ; the one with 

 the profile oblique, the other with the pi-ofile rectilinear. These 

 probably represent the two sexes, and those who wish to take as 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



a differential character the form of the head are thus easily led 

 into error. The real differences which exist between surmuletus 

 and barbatus, besides that of coloration, are the following: In 

 M. surmuletus, the diameter of the eye is much smaller, and the 

 barbels are more robust and longer, reaching beyond the lower 

 angle of the opercle (in barbatus they scarcely reach this point), 

 and the body is notably deeper. To these characters may be 

 added the greater adherence of the scales in surmuletus, while in 

 barbatus these are readily deciduous, and only in extraordinary 

 cases is a specimen found possessing a single scale. In every 

 market on the coast of the Mediterranean the fishermen distin- 

 guish between the two species by different names, according to 

 their coloration, relative length of barbels and the place where 

 they live by preference ; inasmuch as surmuletus is found most 

 readily in rocky places (and hence the common name ' Triglia 

 di Scoglia'), and barbatus is found in muddy places (and hence 

 the common name ' Triglia di Fango '). " 



2. UPENEUS. 



Upeneus Cuvier, Rc-gnc Animal, ed. 2, 1829 (vittatus; rutsellij lifasciatux; trifas- 



ciatun). 

 Hypeneus Agassiz, Noni. Zool., Index Universalis, 184G, 190 (amended orthography). 

 Mulloides Bleeker, "Ceram II, 097, 1852-G5 {flavolineatiu)." 

 Pseudupeneus Bleaker, Poiss. Cote de Guint'e, 18G2, 56 ( prayettsis). 

 Parupeneus 15leeker, Notice sur le Parupeneua bifaaciatUB de l'lle de la Reunion, 



1867, 345 (bifaeciatua). 

 Mullhypeneus Poey, Syn., 1868, 307 [maculattu). 



We include under the head of Upeneus all the Mullidse having 

 teeth on both jaws and none on the vomer. The variations in 

 the size and number of the teeth seem to us of minor importance. 



Analysis of Species of Upeneus. 



a. Teeth on under jaw uniserial, on upper jaw uniserial or occa- 

 sionally irregularly biserial with the outer teeth turned 

 outward ; nil the teeth coarse and distinct; maxillary 2f in 

 head, not reaching vertical from front of eye by one-half of 

 its length; barbels extending to a point half-way between 

 the vertical of preopercle and extremity of opercular spine, 

 1£ in length of head ; eye 4 in head ; scales in lateral line 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PITTLADELPHIA. 153 



31 ; depth, 4 in length ; dorsal VIII-I, 8 ; anal, II, 6. 

 Color in spirits, steel-blue above, descending on sides in 

 three blotches ; one above point of opercular spine, some- 

 times extending on opercle ; one under each dorsal fin. 

 Under-parts of body pale. maculatus. 2. 



aa. Teeth of upper jaw uniserial, of lower biserial ; teeth rather 

 strong, weaker than in U. grandisquamis ; barbels extending 

 nearly to vertical of preopercle ; eye large, 3 in head ; 

 scales in lateral line, 37 ; depth about 5f in total length, 4£ 

 in length. Dorsal VII-I, 7 ; anal I, 5 or 6. Color, bright 

 pink or rose, with broad red band extending from eye to 

 caudal and suffusing caudal {Gill). dentatus, 3 



aaa. Teeth on both jaws in more than one series. 



b. Teeth on anterior part of jaws in two irregular series ; lateral 

 teeth on jaws in a single series ; all the teeth obtusely 

 conical and distinct from each other ; teeth on upper jaw 

 turned inwards ; barbels extending to vertical of preop- 

 ercle, H in length of head ; eye 3^ in length of head ; 

 scales in lateral line 39 ; depth 4 in length. Dorsal 

 VIII-I, 8; anal II, 6. "Color in life, flesh-color above, 

 sides silvery, tinged with yellow below ; a bright yellow 

 band from eye to base of caudal ; a whitish streak above 

 and below this ; another above lateral line ; both dorsals 

 and caudals bright yellow." Martinicus. 4. 



bb. Teeth on anterior part of jaws in two series ; the outer 

 series of the upper jaw being formed by very obtuse and 

 partly confluent teeth. Barbels extending to vertical 

 from root of pectoral fins ; eye 4 in head ; scales in 

 lateral line 32 ; dorsal VIII-I, 8 ; anal I, 6. Color light 

 greenish brown above, rose-color below lateral line ; 

 scales with indistinct pearly spot at centre ; black blotch 

 on lateral line behind spinous dorsal ; a smaller, some- 

 times indistinct black spot behind orbit ; dorsal fins with 

 spots the color of the back ; other fins immaculate. 



grandisquamis. 5. 

 2. Upeneus maculatus. 



Mullus maculatus Bloch, "Ichthyol. about 1790, Taf. 348 (Brazil);" 

 Lacepede, Poiss., iii, 1798-1803, 403 (West Indies • Brazil]. 



Mullus surmuletus var. maculatus Bloch & Schneider, Systemalchthyol., 

 1801, 78 (Brazil). 




154 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Upeneus maculatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1829, 

 478 (Martinique; Brazil); Btorer, "Syn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 48;" 

 Poey, Mem. Pise. Cuba, i, 1851, 223 (Martinique ; Brazil); Castelnau. 

 "Aiiim. iiouv, on rares Amer. Sud, 1850-01, (South America); 

 Cunt her, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 1850, 408 (Atlantic coasts of 

 Tropical America ; Jamaica); Cope, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870, 

 471 (St. Croix); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 5G5 ; 

 Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 120 (Key West). 



Mnllhy peneus maculatus Poey, Syn., 1868, 307 (Cuba). 



Mullhypcncus maculatus Poey, Enum. Pise. Cuba, 1875, 34 (Havana ; 

 Jamaica). 



////peneus maculatus Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., v, 1870, 49 (no 

 specimen). 



Upeneus punctatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1829, 

 482 (Mexico); Kner, Novara Fiscbe, 1857-59,71 (Rio Janeiro); Cope, 

 Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870, 471 (St. Kitts). 



Habitat. — Atlantic coasts of Tropical America, from Key 

 West to Rio Janeiro. 



The specimens of this species examined by us are from Key 

 West and Havana. 



:'.. Upeneus dentatus. 



Upeneus dentatus Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila., 1862, 256 (Cape San 

 Lucas); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 363 (Cape 

 San Lucas). 



Habitat. — Pacific coast of Tropical America ; Lower California. 

 This species is known to us only from the description of Gill, 

 and the notes of Jordan and Gilbert on Gill's original types. 



4. Upeneus martinicus. 



Upeneus martinicus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 



1829, 483 (Martinique). 

 Upeneus balteatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist., Nat. Poiss., iii. L829, 



484 (Cuba); Poey, Mem. Cuba, i, 1851, 224 (Cuba); Jordan, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 129 (Key West). 

 Mulloidcs balteatns Cope, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870, 471 (St. 



Kilts). 

 Upeneus flavovittatus Poey, Mem. Cuba, i, 1851, 225 (Cuba). 

 Mulloidex flavovittatus Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., i, 1859, 403 



(Caribbean Sea ; Jamaica ; Cuba). 

 Upeneus parvus Poey, Mem. Cuba, i, 1859, 225 (Cuba). 



The specimens of this species examined by us are from Key 

 West :iinl Eavana. Poey lias identified his flavovittatus and 

 parvus with the balteatus of Cuvier and Valenciennes. There 

 seems to be little room for doubt that the scanty description of 

 martinicus re bis to this species also. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 155 



5. Upeneus grandisquamis. 



Upeneus grandisquamis Gill, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1863, 1G8 

 (West coast Central America); Giinther, Fish. Central America, 18G4, 

 420 (copied from Gill); Jordaii & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 

 1882, 62G (no description); Steindachner, Ichthy. Beitriige, iv, 1875, 

 6 (Panama). 



Upeneus tetraspilus Giinther, "Proc. Zool. Soc, 1804, 148;" Giinther, 

 Fish. Central America, 18G4, 420, PL GG, fig. 1 (Panama). 



Habitat. — Pacific coast of Tropical America ; Panama. 



This species is known to us only from the descriptions of Gill, 

 Giinther, and Steindachner. Professor Jordan tells us that the 

 Upeneus tetraspilus of Giinther is certainly the same as the 

 Upeneus grandisquamis of Gill. 



[We regret to announce that while this paper was going through the 

 press, one of the authors, Mr. Edward Allen Hall, was drowned in Salt 

 Creek, about eleven miles from Bloomington, Ind., on May 22, 1885. He 

 was born at Rushville, Ind., January 9, 1864, and had, during his course 

 of study at the State University of Indiana, proven himself to be an 

 energetic and faithful student. — E. J. N. ] 




156 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



May 20. 

 Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Forty-one persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 

 " Marginal Karnes," by H. Carvill Lewis. 



" Description of New Species of Lepidoptera," by Herman 

 Strecker. 



The death of Jacob P. Jones, a member, was announced. 

 Antonio de Gregorio, of Palermo, was elected a correspondent. 



June 2. 



Mr. Edward Potts in the chair. 

 Thirty-seven persons present. 

 The following papers were ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



MARGINAL KAMES. 

 BY II. CAKVILL LEWIS. 



Introduction. — During the course of an investigation, in 1881, 

 of the extreme southern edge of the great ice-sheet in Pennsyl- 

 vania, as marked by its terminal moraine, the writer had an 

 opportunitj 7 " of studying several phenomena produced by the 

 glacier along the line of its southern terminus ; one of the most 

 interesting of which phenomena were certain short hummocky 

 ridges of stratified drift, which, often closely connected with the 

 terminal moraine, appear to belong to a class of surface deposits 

 elsewhere called Karnes. 



The kames of Scotland, the Eskers of Ireland, and the Asar, 

 or osars, of Scandinavia, all closely related, if not identical, 

 deposits, find an analogue in the ridges of stratified drift which 

 have been described by a number of geologists as occurring in 

 northeastern America, including Canada. 



They may be described as narrow ridges of stratified, water- 

 worn, generally sandy drift, which, sometimes forming a series 

 of tortuous and reticulated hills, sometimes a nearly regular 

 straight ridge, and often forming knob-like conical hills (" hum- 

 mocks "), alternating with similar conical depressions ("kettle- 

 holes "), generally lie along valleys or depressions, and have a 

 general downward slope from a higher to a lower level. 



These gravel ridges are generally quite steep — as steep often 

 as the nature of the material will allow. This steepness is quite 

 striking to a geologist accustomed to the gentle slopes of the 

 gravel formations in the non-glaciated portion of this country, 

 and at once suggests the recency of their origin. 



The internal structure of kames is in general anticlinal. 

 " Flow-and-plunge " structure, and oblique lamination, the evi- 

 dence of rapid fluviatile action, is often seen in their interior; 

 and as a rule the material is finest in the interior, and most 

 coarse on the exterior portions of the kame. 



Wherever along the course of the terminal moraine the writer has 

 had an opportunity of examining recently made transverse sections 

 of these drift ridges, he has found clean water-worn sand within, 



1 Read before the British Association for the Advancement of Science, 

 Montreal, August 29, 1884. 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



showing distinct torrential action, and a coarse gravel on the 

 outside. Sometimes, but rarely, large boulders lie on top of the 

 kames. The writer has never observed large boulders within 

 them. The material is generally small, and well water-worn and 

 rounded, showing no glacial scratches on its pebbles, and for the 

 most part is of local origin. 



The contours of these kames in their " hummocky " appearance, 

 are very like those of moraines. Indeed, it is often impossible 

 to distinguish kames from moraines by external features alone. 

 When, however, we take into consideration their structure and 

 their position, they cannot readily be confounded. Their distin- 

 guishing characters are (1) their internal structure, kames being 

 distinguished by an absence of till and glaciated pebbles, and by 

 stratified, generally anticlinal, structure — all of these characters 

 being very different from the unstratified pell-mell character of 

 moraines ; (2) their geographical position and the influence of 

 the surrounding topography upon them. Topography has prac- 

 tically no influence on the moraine of the great glacier. The 

 terminal moraine on the Pocono plateau closely resembles that 

 in Cherry Valley, 1000 feet below it; and the moraine at the 

 height of 2500 feet, in central Pennsylvania, cannot be distin- 

 guished from that in New Jersey, at the sea-level. The moraine 

 may lie on the downward slope of a hill, as at Fishing Creek, 

 Columbia Co.; may form a dam across a creek, as at Cole's Mills, 

 or it may stretch transversely across a mountain ridge such as 

 the Kittatinny Mountain. 1 



On the other hand, kames as a rule depend directly upon topo- 

 graphy. While they do not always coincide with the present 

 drainage systems, they extend from higher to lower levels. They 

 follow valleys generally along the central line, but sometimes, 

 indeed, rising over considerable elevations. Where the valleys 

 are distinct and sharply defined by high ridges on either side, 

 the kames are confined to them, and follow more or less closely 

 the modern water-courses ; but where, as in southeastern Massa- 

 chusetts, the valleys are not w r ell marked, and there is no defining 

 wall, the country being nearly level or rolling, and there being 

 no mountain ranges, kames often cross where there are now no 



1 This independence of the terminal moraine as regards topography, is 

 prominently brought out in the detailed deseription of it given by the 

 writer in Report Z, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania. 




1885.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 159 



water-courses, even crossing rivers, as may be seen on the Merri- 

 mac at Lawrence, which is said to he crossed at right-angles by :i 

 kanie. 1 In no sense, however, can kames be regarded as the work 

 of rivers merely. For, as Prof. Stone has shown so clearly in 

 Maine, they sometimes rise out of a valley and pass through a gap 

 in the hillside or cross a ridge perhaps 150 feet high, to low 

 grounds beyond. Prof. Stone has in several cases followed them 

 up-hill for a short distance. 



Such facts may best be explained by the supposition that the 

 stream of water which formed them must have either been 

 enclosed within high walls of ice, or have flowed in a subglacial 

 tunnel. 



Literature. — A large number of kames, occurring under various 

 conditions, have been observed in different portions of the glaciated 

 area of North America. None occur south of that area. 



As long ago as 1842, Dr. Edward Hitchcock described a series 

 of gravel ridges which pass through Andover, Mass., and which is 

 known locally as " Indian Ridge." At that time he regarded this 

 ridge, composed, as he well described it, " of a collection of 

 tortuous ridges and rounded even conical hills with corresponding 

 depressions between them," 2 as a species of moraine. These have 

 been more recently studied in detail by Prof. G. F. Wright, 3 who 

 has shown that they form part of a chain of such ridges, many 

 miles in length, running from Franklin, N. H., to Maiden on the 

 ocean, and are true kames. 



The most complete studies of kames in this country are those 

 made by Prof. Geo. H. Stone, 4 who has mapped some thirty-one 

 linear systems of kames in the State of Maine, all running from 

 the high interior of the State southeastward toward the sea. 

 He describes them as meandering like rivers in their course from 

 the mountains oceauward. They start sometimes at elevations as 

 high as 1600 feet above the ocean, they freely cross low transverse 

 hills 100 feet high, but not 200 feet high, and they have a strong 

 inclination to keep within straight lines, notwithstanding minor 

 obstacles. These ancient gravel streams were not so easily turned 

 from their course as streams of to-day. When once in a valley 



1 Wright, Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xix, 47. 



2 Trans. Am. Assn. Geol. and Nat., 1841-2, p. 101. 



3 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., Dec, 1870. 



* Kames of Maine. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xx, 430, 1880. 




160 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



coinciding with the main direction of the kame, the latter is apt 

 to keep in it. Prof, Stone states that these long ridges are 

 homologous with the Scandinavian Osars, rather than with the 

 short ridges classed as kames. 



In other parts of New England, kames have been described by 

 several authors. In New Hampshire, Prof. C. H. Hitchcock and 

 M i . Warren Upham have made noteworthy contributions to this 

 subject. In vol. iii of the New Hampshire Geological Survey, 

 Mr. Upham has contributed a valuable chapter on surface deposits, 

 among which the most important are the numerous kames. One 

 of these, described by Mr. Upham as occupying the valley of the 

 Connecticut River, has subsequently been studied by Prof. Dana, 

 who believes ' that it is merely a portion of the terrace formation 

 in that valley, and that the name of kame should not properly be 

 applied to it. Prof. Hitchcock, 2 however, has subsequently 

 examined a critical localit}' in the Connecticut Valley, and finds 

 the arched kame-gravel dipping beneath a horizontal terrace- 

 loam, thus showing the greater age and different origin of the 

 kame, and supporting Mr. Upham 's views. 



Prof. J. S. Newberry 3 and Prof. N. H. Winchell have described 

 kames in Ohio, where they are known locally as "hog-backs.' 

 Prof. Newberry at that time regarded them as due to the action 

 of breakers and shorewaves at a period when the region was sub- 

 merged under an inland fresh-water lake. Kames and kame-like 

 ridges have also been described in Michigan and in Minnesota. 

 In Canada, Sir William Dawson 4 has described certain ridges 

 known as " Boar's-backs " and " Horse-backs," which he regards 

 as eskers. One of these, in Cumberland, is a narrow ridge, so 

 level on top that it forms a natural carriage-road for eight miles; 

 another one, in Shelburne County, is a long ridge, also used as a 

 carriage-road; while shorter and more interrupted ridges occur in 

 a number of places. Sir William Dawson remarks that they bear 

 no resemblance to glacial moraines, and believes that they were 

 thrown up by " the surf or marine currents and tides." Prof. T. 

 C. Chamberlin ■"' has given an excellent description of kames 



1 Am. Jour. Be, xxii, 451, 1881. 



2 Proc. Am. Assn. Adv. Be., \\\i. 325, 1882. 



3 Geol. Surv. of Ohio. vol. ii. p. 41-47. 



* Notes <>ii the Post-Pliocene < leol. of < 'anada, ls?2. p. 40. 

 Hillocks of angular gravel and disturbed stratification. Amor. Jour. 

 Sc, xxvii, 1884, p. 378. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



associated with terminal moraines in Wisconsin and elsewhere, 

 and his paper contains a good reference list to the literature of 

 kames. The kames described by him differ from those described 

 in the present paper in being knob-like hills, "simple isolated 

 mounds," or clusters of such mounds, rather than linear ridges, 

 and also in lying transverse to the glacial movement, which is 

 not the case with the Pennsylvania deposits. 



Origin of Kames. — The early view of geologists as to the 

 origin of kames, was that they were washed into shape by the 

 waves and currents of the ocean. This was the view held by Dr. 

 Jas. Geikie in the first edition of his " Great Ice Age," l and was 

 formerly advocated by many geologists both in Europe and 

 America. But recent researches have shown that this view is 

 untenable, and in the second edition of Dr. Geikie's book kames 

 are regarded as the work of subglacial rivers. 2 



The researches of American geologists, especially the work in 

 New England of Upham, Wright and Stone, have shown the 

 occurrence of kames in positions out of the reach of oceanic 

 currents. When marine deposits occur, as they do along the 

 border of New England, in the St. Lawrence Valley, and else- 

 where, they are seen to be horizontally stratified sands and clays 

 often holding marine fossils, and clearly overlying the kame 

 ridges. The terrace material of flooded rivers is also observed 

 to overlie the kames. 



On the other hand, kames are newer than glacial till, and 

 overlie and swing around the drumlins of Massachusetts. These 

 " drumlins," like those described by Kinahan and Close in 

 Ireland, 3 are low oval hills, composed of unstratified glacial till, 

 and are most satisfactorily explained as lenticular ground moraines 

 formed under the ice sheet during its advance. They have been 

 called " lenticular hills." Their longer diameter is generally 

 parallel to the direction of the ice flow, as shown by neighboring 

 stria?, and they appear to be of a mid-glacial age. 4 



1 Page 229. 



2 Page 217, etc. 



3 Glaciation of Iar-Connaught, Kinahan and Close, 1872. 



4 For discussion of "lenticular hills," sec papers inProc. Bost. Soc. Nat. 

 Hist., by N. S. Shaler (xiii, 190), and by C. H. Hitchcock (xix, 63), and 

 Geol. Survey of N. H., iii, p. 287 ; also, an article by W. M. Davis, Science, 

 iv, 419. 



12 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Kames, therefore, would appear to be intermediate in age 

 between the time of the deposition of the till or ground moraine 

 and the age of the terraces and marine deposits. Mr. Upham l 

 regards them as due to rivers flowing in channels formed upon 

 the surface of the ice near its retreating edge. As the wall of 

 ice on either side disappeared at the final melting of the ice sheet, 

 the gravel and sand remained in long ridges or in mounds. He 

 believes that kames were formed at or near the mouths of these 

 surface streams, extending along the valley as fast as the ice front 

 retreated. 



Prof. G. F. Wright 2 believes that in many cases they are due 

 to the sliding down from the surface of the ice of morainic debris 

 accumulated near its end, so that they may represent medial 

 moraines. He shows that they do not lie in channels worn in the 

 till, and that very often they are unstratified, and thinks that the 

 material composing them may have first formed lines upon the top 

 of the ice. But, as Prof. Stone has shown, it is only among the 

 highlands that the material of kames are poorly stratified ; as 

 soon as open valleys are reached the materials are worn, rounded 

 and stratified. 



Quite recently Prof. T. C. Chamberlin, of the U. S. Geological 

 Survey, in an important paper " On the Terminal Moraine of the 

 Second Glacial Epoch," 3 proposes to separate kames from "Asar," 

 regarding kames proper as tranverse to the slope of the surface, 

 the course of the valleys and the direction of the drift move- 

 ment," 4 while the term asar is employed to designate long river- 

 like ridges of gravel. Asar are described as extending " from 

 higher to lower levels, following in general but not in detail the 

 course of the greater valleys and the direction of glacial stria- 

 tion." As stated elsewhere, 5 the} r are held to be " the products 

 of the drainage system of practically extinct glaciers." 



This is practically the view of Professor Stone, and of other 

 recent workers in this field, as it is that of the present writer. 

 Moraines are the product of the advance of the ice-sheet, osars 



1 Geol. of N. II., vol. 3, pp. 14-176. 



2 Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., xx, 219. 



3 Third An. Rep. U. S. Gcol. Surv., p. 295, etc. 



4 Loc. cit., p. 300. 



5 Amer. Jour. Sc., xxvii, 378. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 163 



and kames of its retreat. If the distinction between osars and 

 kames be sustained, the deposits described in the present paper 

 might more properly be called " marginal osars." In many 

 characters, however, they are intermediate between osars and 

 kames as defined by Professor Chamberlin. 



Kames are shown by the same authority to be composed of 

 material derived from the adjacent till, and of loeal derivation, 

 and from a study of their topographical situations and other 

 features, the just conclusion is drawn 1 "that these hills could 

 not have been produced by any form of beach action, whether 

 assisted by ice or not," but that " they were formed along the 

 edge of the ice-sheet by numerous marginal streams." 



Prof. Chamberlin makes these kames "associates if not con- 

 stituents of terminal moraines ; " and classes them among moraine 

 deposits. He says, 2 " It is my belief that they were due to 

 special aqueous action attending glacial advances in such close 

 relationship that they become distinctive incidental products, 

 and mark the position of halt and retreat, as characteristically 

 as the true moraines of mechanical origin themselves, which they 

 so often overlie and conceal." 



He therefore regards certain stratified knob-like hills of gravel 

 in western and central New York State as representing a true 

 terminal moraine of the second glacial epoch, and he has traced 

 such a kame-moraine from Chautauqua Lake to the Mohawk and 

 Catskills. These lines of hills he regards as representing the 

 boundary of the great ice sheet at the period of its longest halt. 

 He says that this inner morainic belt is " more massive and 

 pronounced in development than the moraine referred to the older 

 epoch," 3 and "that its surface is fresher and less subdued by 

 meteoric modification." 



Granting that the line of kames so carefully traced out by 

 Professor Chamberlin is correctly interpreted as representing a 

 halt in the retreating ice-sheet, the present writer holds that, on 

 account of their stratified character, such gravel deposits should 

 not be identified with the unstratified masses of glacier-made till 

 which constitute the true terminal moraine. The one is due to 



1 Loc. cit., p. 387. 



2 Third An. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv., p. 376. 



3 Loc. cit., p. 340. 




164 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



water action, the other to ice action. The term lame-moraine is, 

 in the opinion of the writer, a more appropriate name for such 

 deposits than terminal mox-aine, which latter term would then be 

 kept to designate the extreme outer mass of debris pushed out 

 or dropped by the glacier at the time of its farthest extension. 



That kames may be associated with the terminal moraine, is a 

 fact which the writer will endeavor still further to demonstrate. 

 But that they are distinct from it in structure, origin, and signifi- 

 cance, will, it is believed, be granted after a careful consideration 

 of the facts observed in Pennsylvania. 



Marginal Kames in Pennsylvania. — That the terminal moraine 

 separating the glaciated from the non-glaciated district has, 

 throughout the greater part of its course in Pennsylvania (Plate 

 III), an essentially unstratified character, has been sufficiently 

 demonstrated in the author's report describing it. 1 



It has been shown that even where crossing river-valleys its 

 unstratified condition is maintained; as, for example, opposite 

 Belvidere in the Delaware, and at Beach Haven on the Susque- 

 hanna, at both of which places it is clearly distinguished from 

 the stratified material lapping up against it. But immediately 

 back of the moraine there occur in many places other stratified 

 deposits, which, although similar in contour to the moraine 

 proper, are worthy of separate consideration. 



The class of kames which it is now proposed to describe, have, 

 the writer believes, not heretofore been recognized in their true 

 significance. These are either directly connected and continuous 

 with the terminal moraine in Pennsylvania, or they are in such 

 close proximity to it that they may properly be known as 

 marginal kames. This term is given in order to distinguish 

 them from longer kames or osars which may have no relation to 

 the margin of the ice-sheet. None of them are transverse to the 

 motion of the glacier, like a moraine, unless the drainage makes 

 them so, and in this respect they do not answer to the definition 

 of a kame given by Prof. Chamberlin, but have distinct characters 

 of their own. They are all short, from a few hundred feet to a 

 few miles in length, and they all follow the direction of the 

 drainage. They have a general downward slope, and all lead 

 toward a river-valley or other water-course. All those observed 

 are made of water-worn materials, and where sections can be 



1 Report Z, Second Geological Survey of Penna. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



obtained show an anticlinal structure within. As already stated, 

 their materials are finer in the interior, and most coarse in the 

 exterior, and sometimes, though rarely, large boulders lie on the 

 surface. The comparative shortness of their courses distin- 

 guish them from the long river-like osars. Their origin and 

 significance can best be appreciated after a description of a few 

 of them in detail. The accompanjnng map gives their general 

 position with regard to the terminal moraine. 



There are three kames in Northampton County, Pa., which are 

 especially instructive. The most prominent of these is that 

 which traverses the centre of Mt. Bethel Township in a north- 

 east direction, follows approximately the valley of Jacobus 

 Creek, and ends upon the banks of the Delaware at Portland. 1 



This kame, which has been mistaken for the terminal moraine, 2 

 is composed of a series of interlacing ridges and hummocks, 

 often enclosing kettle-holes, and formed of stratified sand and 

 water-worn gravel, carrying occasional rounded boulders upon 

 the surface. 



The town of Portland is built upon the kame, which here rises 

 100 or more feet above the river, forming a prominent hill. Some 

 fine railroad cuts, through several ridges of the kame, 2^ miles 

 from Portland, show it to consist of a stratified sand overlaid b} T 

 a boulder-bearing clay, or till, as though it had been formed by 

 running water beneath the ice, which on melting dropped the till. 

 At this place, one mile southeast of Roxborough ( Johnsonville 

 P. 0.), the kame is composed of a series of reticulated ridges, 

 enclosing typical kettle-holes. One of these, known locally as 

 the devil's kettle, and supposed by some to be an old Indian fort, 

 is a symmetrical oval depression, surrounded by a raised rim, 300 

 feet long by 200 wide, and 30 deep. Like most kettle-holes, it 

 has its longer axis parallel to the direction of the kame in which 

 it lies. In the same neighborhood, similar rounded shallow depres- 

 sions, with neither inlet nor outlet, lie upon the very summit of 

 sandy ridges 100 feet above the level of the surrounding country. 



These kettle-holes do not appear to be the result of natural 

 erosion, and they are in no way allied to ordinary valleys or 

 ravines, produced by the action of running water. The instruc- 



1 See Page Plates 8 and 9, in Report Z, pp. 53, 68. 



2 F. Prime, Proc. Amer. Phil, Soc, xviii, 85. 




166 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



tive fact that a raised rim frequently completely surrounds the 

 kettle-hole, so as to elevate it above the surrounding country, is 

 conclusive against any theory of ordinary erosion. In fact, the 

 comparative absence of erosion, is one of the most remarkable 

 facts relating to kames and their kettle-holes. 



The kame here described is confined to the valley of Jacobus 

 Creek. The high hills on the south are sprinkled with boulders, 

 but hold no deposits of stratified drift. 



The length of the kame is five miles. Its general elevation 

 near Johnsonville is 600 feet above the sea, or 300 feet above the 

 Delaware River at Portland ; giving a northeastward slope to 

 the kame of nearly 100 feet to the mile. It seems to have been 

 caused by a stream, probably subglacial, draining backwards into 

 the Delaware River at Portland. The direction taken by the 

 stream producing the kame was just contrary to the direction of 

 ice-flow, which was southeast. This kame is a good example of 

 a backward-draining marginal kame. 



Another locality which throws light on the origin of kames is 

 in Upper Mount Bethel township, close to the base of the 

 Kittatinny Mountain, and about a mile east of the moraine. 



Here, on the road to the Fox Gap, a number of small, rounded, 

 hummocky drift hills, and a series of ridges, irregularly inter- 

 laced with each other, composed of sandy water-worn drift 

 within, but bearing upon their surface many boulders, form a 

 fine series of small kames. These kames are not straight ; they 

 follow a curved line around Offset Knob. 



Close to the flank of the mountain they bear south 20° west ; 

 somewhat lower and farther from the mountain, they bear south 

 30° west; still farther down the road, they veer yet more south- 

 west. They seem to represent streams which, descending from 

 the melting ice on the mountain, flowed at first southward, and 

 then westward around Offset Knob, and, after issuing from the 

 end of the glacier, emptied into the deeply flooded valley of 

 Bushkill Creek, in Plainfield township. 



Immediately north of these kames, a great accumulation of 

 till and boulders forms a high ridge upon the side of the 

 mountain. Most of the boulders are of Medina sandstone, but 

 occasional boulders of limestone, and of fossiliferous rocks 

 1 in (light from the valley on the other side of the mountain, are 

 found. This accumulation at a higher elevation than the series 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 1G7 



of karaes represents the portion of the glacier whose melting 

 supplied the kame streams. These small kames represented an 

 outward drainage. 



There are two curious little kames immediately south of 

 Ackermanville, in Washington Township, Northampton Count}', 

 which, though but miniature examples, have all the characters of 

 larger kames, and offer a suggestion as to their origin. 



Two small, straight, narrow ridges of stratified drift, 15 feet 

 high and about 100 feet long, may be seen just below the village, 

 running nearly at right-angles to the valley of the west branch 

 of Martin's Creek. Both of these ridges run from the base of a 

 hill west of the creek toward the stream, their direction being 

 south 75° east; and west of each of them there is an opening in 

 the hill, near the summit of which the moraine lies. 1 



Upon examining the structure of these ridges, as exposed by 

 transverse cuts made by the railroad, they are found to be com- 

 posed of fine stratified sand within and gravel without. The 

 sand shows flow-and-plunge stratification, with a distinct anti- 

 clinal structure. 



Here again the only satisfactory explanation is that they are 

 due to subglacial streams which drained the melting edge of the 

 glacier on the hillside backward into the subglacial valley, now 

 occupied by the west branch of Martin's Creek. They are here 

 at an elevation of 500 feet above the sea and about 190 feet below 

 the edge of the moraine and are beautiful examples of miniature 

 kames. An important point to note is that on placing the eye 

 along the crest of each of these they are seen to be opposite small 

 depressions in the hill on which the moraine rests. They are thus 

 in precisely the position that would be occupied by the natural 

 drainage of the edge of the ice-sheet. 



The most interesting of all the kames of Monroe County are 

 the curious conical hills and short ridges of sandy drift which lie 

 along the centre of Cheny Yalley, between the moraine and the 

 Delaware River. A remarkable series of conical hills of peculiar 

 and characteristic topography either stand singly, or (more gene- 

 rally) are connected one with another by irregular banks of 

 gravel, to form a series parallel with the valley. 



Near the Delaware Water Gap these hills rise often over 200 

 feet above the river, and often inclose basin-shaped depressions 



1 See sketch-map in Report Z, p. 34. 




108 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



or kettle-holes. They are most abundant between Storm ville and 

 the river. Where the valley widens, just east of Stormville, two 

 sets of kame-like ridges on either side of the valley have the form 

 of a V. 



Short tributary kames, whose axes are at right-angles to the 

 main kame in the valley, appear opposite ravines or depressions 

 in the hills bordering the valley. 



A buried kame lies along the north and south valley of Broad- 

 head's Creek, almost completely covered by subsequent deposits 

 of terrace material. The top of the kame stands out of the level 

 terrace plain which borders the creek at Stroudsburg and vicinity. 

 A fine section of the buried kame at Stroudsburg shows its 

 anticlinal structure and a. fault in it caused by settling. 



Another most interesting buried kame is in the valley of Mc- 

 Michael's Creek, in Hamilton Township, where the top of the 

 kame appears through the sand}' terrace plain which covers the 

 valley. The kame runs along the centre of the valley while the 

 creek wanders irregularly through it. The kames are clear]}' 

 older than the terrace material. 



Of the other kames and kame-like ridges of Monroe County, 

 reference onby need here be made to certain kames upon the sum- 

 mit of the Pocono plateau, which are of interest in draining 

 northward ; of these there may be mentioned the steep, sharp 

 ridges of sand near Tompkinsville, Tolyhanna Township, which 

 run toward lower ground northward, thus draining the glacial 

 waters toward the Lehigh. These are immediately back of the 

 terminal moraine. 



Again, just west of the Lehigh River, and immediately north 

 of the moraine, there appear kame-like ridges of sand and gravel 

 in small valleys emptying into the Lehigh. These are parallel 

 to the moraine, and are so simply because the drainage is here 

 south of east, while the moraine trends to the northwest. 



Below Scranton, on the Lackawanna River, and also on the 

 Susquehanna, are long ridges of stratified sandy material, which 

 are quite distinct from the terrace deposits of those rivers, and 

 which appear to be portions of a kame similar to that described 

 by Mr. Upham on the Connecticut River, and of similar origin. 

 These cannot be classed among the marginal kames. 



In " Pope Hollow," close to the line between South Valley 

 township, Cattaraugus County, and Carroll township, Chau- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 169 



tauqua County, N. Y., and resting upon the water-shed between 

 Pope Run (a tributary of the Allegheny) and Case Run (a tribu- 

 tary of the Conewango), the moraine is finely shown as a ridge 

 of till, which, stretching completely across the valley, and 

 covered by numerous boulders of gneiss, rises upon the 

 highlands on either side. The moraine ridge here, as in other 

 places, is most prominent behind or toward the west. 



A very small marginal kame runs westward and down-hill 

 from the back of the moraine, in Chautauqua County, as though 

 a subglacial stream had drained the moraine backward, into the 

 valley of the Conewango. The moraine itself is apparently 

 unstratified, and no drift was noticed in front (E.) of it. Its 

 only drainage, therefore, must have been backward, into the 

 Conewango. 



An interesting double kame, consisting of two ridges of sand 

 united into one, the double anticlinals being exposed, was 

 observer by the writer in Mercer County. 1 It is probably not 

 a true marginal kame. 



An examination of the marginal kames, of which sufficient 

 examples have now been given, leads, as has been seen, to the 

 conclusion that they were made b} r subglacial streams draining 

 the edge of the ice-sheet. The occasional boulders and till on 

 top of, but not in, these kames argue a subglacial origin, the 

 boulders and till having been dropped by the retreating glacier 

 on the kames : while the position and direction of each of the 

 kames described is just such as would be taken by streams 

 flowing beneath the ice-sheet. Among the facts ascertained with 

 regard to marginal kames are their water-worn and stratified 

 character ; their rude anticlinal structure, often of finer sand 

 within than without ; the presence of occasional boulders and 

 even till on top of them ; the absence of any fixed relation to the 

 movement of the glacier ; the genei'al coincidence of their 

 course with that of the natural drainage ; the total absence of 

 shells, driftwood, beach-marks, or other indications of the action 

 of ocean currents, waves or tides ; their intimate connection with 

 the terminal moraine in such positions as to indicate a backward, 

 as well as a forward subglacial drainage. 



These kames are very different from those tongues of stratified 

 drift which often occur in or near the glaciated region at the 



1 Report Z, p. 191. 




170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



junction of two streams (ancient or modern). These deposits do 

 not show an anticlinal structure, and instead of occurring in the 

 centre of a valley, are seen at points where an eddy in the drift- 

 laden waters, or more commonly the shelter of a projecting rock, 

 has allowed them to be formed. They may be termed eddy-ridges 

 or terrace-deltas, and are clearly of entirely different origin from 

 kames. The writer has seen a number of such ridges in northern 

 Pennsylvania, and there is little difficulty in distinguishing them 

 from kames. 



That stratified deposits ma}' exist beneath a glacier, undisturbed 

 by the weight or motion of the ice, has been shown by observa- 

 tion at the base of the Swiss glaciers. Among the most interesting 

 of these observations, because so well correlated with the phe- 

 nomena of the American ice sheet, are those of Prof. Chamberlin, 

 made at the base of the Rhone glacier. He remarks : J "At other 

 points, near the centre of the valley, the ice may be seen resting 

 directly upon well-assorted stratified sand and gravel. Level 

 sheets of fine detrital matter extend without disturbance of con- 

 tinuit} r or surface beneath the edge of the glacier. The assorting 

 and stratification of this material was apparently accomplished 

 by subglacial streams, which seem afterwards to have found 

 other avenues, when the ice occupied their place either by 

 settling down from above, or advancing from behind. The 

 singular fact is that the stratified sands should not have been 

 disturbed." 



The similarity between the contours of kames and of moraines 

 is accounted for on the supposition that both were moulded 

 beneath the ice sheet. While the moraine shows the edge of the 

 glacier, the kames indicate the direction of its drainage. Flat 

 terrace plains, such as that at Berwick, on the Susquehanna, 

 are made by floods issuing from the front of the glacier, but when 

 the drainage was subglacial, whether forward or backward, kames 

 are the result. 



Siil>glacial Drainage. — The most important conclusion arrived 

 at by a study of the backward-draining marginal kames is that 

 of a great subglacial drainage. The same conclusion is drawn 

 from observations on the terminal moraine itself, which in many 

 places shows evidence of having been drained northward, not 

 southward. Many sucli instances might be described. 



1 Wis. Geol. Survey Report for 1878, p. 17. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 171 



On the high mountain plateau of Potter County, Pa., for 

 example, at an elevation of 2500 feet, although the Allegheny 

 River flowed at the very foot of the glacier, there is no drift in 

 the valley of the river, and no indication of any drainage to the 

 south ; while north of the moraine the whole country is covered 

 with clays, terrace plains, kames and ever}' indication of the 

 presence of both ice and water. 



Again, in Columbia County, Pa., although Fishing Creek flows 

 in front of the edge of the ice sheet which once rested on its 

 eastern bank, there are no gravel deposits in the creek ; while 

 immediately back of the moraine we find them in great quantities, 

 leading around to another outlet. 



So on the Pocono plateau, in Carbon Co., the drainage was 

 reversed ; while in Northampton County, and Monroe County it 

 was clearly in both directions, outward and inward. 



The writer has adduced evidence that the Allegheny River, 

 near Olean, N. Y., flowed into the glacier and out of it again in 

 the same channel that it now occupies ; flowing in a subglacial 

 channel through or under a tongue of ice ten miles broad by two 

 miles long. 1 



Everj^where there are indications of a great subglacial drainage. 

 The observations of other geologists, especially of Prof. New- 

 berry, in Ohio, lead to the same conclusion. Studies among 

 modern glaciers confirm these interpretations of glacial phe- 

 nomena. 



Prof. Nordenskiold described the " large and swift rivers," 

 plunging from the surface into profound crevasses of the Green- 

 land ice-sheet, and Dr. Rink speaks of the copious subglacial 

 streams which flow out from under the Greenland ice. 



From beneath the Muir glacier of Alaska, 2 there issues a sub- 

 glacial stream 100 feet wide, and 4 feet in average depth, the flow 

 being the same winter and summer. Prof. Dana 3 has rightly 

 assumed that the ice sheet of North America would have had 

 " subglacial streams as much more extensive than those of Green- 

 land, as the precipitation was more copious and the drainage 

 areas larger." 



Much of the boulder clay and till throughout the lower por- 



1 Report Z, p. 154. 



2 Meehan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sc. Phila., 1883, p. 249. 



3 Am. Jour. Sc, xxii, p. 366, 1882. 




172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



tions of both the United States and Canada, shows evident 

 aqueous action, not onty subsequently to, but during its depo- 

 sition. 



The great lake basins, and the St. Lawrence Valley, receiving 

 subglacial streams from south as well as from north, may have 

 been flooded with water while the ice still covered them. 



Important deductions regarding the physical condition of the 

 lowlands while covered by the glacier, and of the origin of certain 

 aqueous varieties of till might be drawn from a further consider- 

 ation of this subglacial drainage. The method of movement of 

 a great glacier, a problem not yet fully understood, is also largety 

 dependent upon the presence or absence of water beneath the ice. 



The northward-draining marginal kames are undoubtedly but 

 an insignificant portion of the widespread deposits made by the 

 subglacial drainage which they indicate. 



Since this paper was read at Montreal, Mr. J. H. Kinahan, of Dublin, 

 who was present when the paper was read, has, in an article entitled "On 

 the use of the term Esker or Kam Drift" (Amer. Journ. Science, xxix, 188o, 

 p. 135), criticized the pronunciation and use of the word kame by Ameri- 

 can geologists; while at the same time reaffirming his belief that "true 

 eskeror kam drift" is "due to currents and eddies generated by the meeting 

 or colliding of two or more currents in a mass of water, such as that of a 

 sea or large lake." He argues that because of an ancient Celtic word 

 "cam" or "kam" meaning crooked or winding, we should pronounce the 

 word kame short, as if spelled cam. 



It is not probable that American geologists will adopt this short pronun- 

 ciation. The word has long been pronounced kame both in England and 

 Scotland, and in tin; latter country is often spelled kaim. Indeed Mr. Kina- 

 han himself formerly used this spelling, and therefore also, the long pro- 

 nunciation. (See his article " On the Drift in Ireland," Journ, Hoy. Geol. 

 Soc. Ireland, vol. i, p. 200, where he speaks of "eskers or kaim$.' n ) 



The now antiquated idea that eskers and kames are due to oceanic or 

 lacustrine currents has naturally enough been held in Ireland, where the 

 land often lies but little above ocean level, but such a theory is untenable 

 in America. Mr. Kinahan himself says, that the marginal kames of 

 America must lie quite different from the Irish eskers, and ventures the 

 explanation that "there were at times 'flashes' or areas of shallow water 

 accumulated margining the faces, portions of which were still water, while 

 in other portions there were currents ; or it might have been a mass of snow 

 margining a narrow flash of flowing water.'' This explanation, like one 

 held by Sir William Dawson (Proc. Amer. Assoc. Adv. Sci., xxxii, 1884, 

 p. 35), that the terminal moraine simply marks the "limit of the deep 

 water of a glacial sea," would probably be greatly modified had those geolo- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 173 



gists the opportunity of studying in the field the margin of the glaciated 

 area of Pennsylvania. 



How could any area of water, still or flowing, accumulate along the 

 margin of an ice sheet which rests against an upward slope, as it so often 

 does in this State? And if such areas of water did exist south of the 

 moraine, why have not some relics of such a body of water been left in the 

 shape of sand, gravel or clay? There is no fact in relation to glaciation 

 more sat : sfactorily determined in the writer's "Report on the Terminal 

 Moraine" than the absence of any body of water, deep or shallow, in 

 front of the moraine. This unexpected fact is clearly shown by the entire 

 absence of drift south of the moraine except in river valleys (the narrow 

 glacial "fringe," elsewhere described, is excepted). While kames and 

 many other deposits made by melting ice abound immediately back of the 

 moraine, all these stop abruptly at the moraine, and the line of demarka- 

 tion is at times so sharp that "it is almost possible to stand with one foot 

 upon the glaciated and the other upon the non-glaciated ground " (Second 

 Geol. Surv. of Pa., Z, p. 103). 



The study of glacial phenomena is in a much more advanced stage in 

 America than it is in Europe. To the smaller areas studied, and to the 

 artificial changes which have modified the surface deposits of the Old 

 World, are in great part due the limited views, the confusion of terms, and 

 the contradictory theories which characterize much of the very voluminous 

 literature of the glaciation of Europe. No better field for the prosecution 

 of glacial studies can be found than in America, where single deposits 

 extend for thousands of miles under varying conditions of mountain and 

 valley, of flood plains and of prairies, and where in many places they stand 

 to-day almost in the form in which they were originally made, untouched 

 by the hand of man, and gently dealt with by that of time. 




174 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF LEPIDOPTERA. 



BY HERMAN STRECKER. 

 Papilio Nezahualcoyotl. 



S expands 3 to 3^ inches. Head and body of same color, 

 and marked as in the ordinary Philenor ; all the wings broader, 

 and not nearly as elongate as in that species, and the secondaries 

 without tails. 



Upper surface. Primaries blackish brown, with a dark blue 

 shimmer towards the inner angle ; a submarginal transverse row 

 of five white spots, the first which is between the discoidal ner- 

 vules is much the smallest, the next three are of nearly uniform 

 size, and the last one, between the last median nervule and the 

 submedian nervure, is geminate. Fringe near the apex black, 

 from thence to the lower discoidal nervule black and white 

 alternately, and from the latter to inner angle white, with black 

 only at the termination of the veins. 



Secondaries dark shining blue, with a submarginal row of six 

 large white more or less lunate spots, the one at anal angle 

 narrow, and much the smallest. Fringe of marginal indenta- 

 tions white ; at termination of veins bluish black. 



Under surface. Primaries paler than above, markings the 

 same. 



Secondaries after the manner of Philenor, but the brown of 

 basal half extending over greater area ; the continuous submar- 

 ginal band of large spots of a deeper orange, more inclined to a 

 red or brick-color. 



From New Mexico, close to the Mexican border. 



This insect bears about the same relation to the true Philenor 

 that Hospiton does to Machaon, or Anticostiensis to Asterius, 

 though in neither of the latter is there that almost total obso- 

 lescence of the wing-tails that so remarkably distinguishes the 

 present form. It would be curious to know by what process 

 nature has effected this abortion of the caudal appendages, and 

 why it should occur in an exceedingly limited extent of 

 territory. 



All the examples of Philenor which I have seen from Cali- 

 fornia have short tails to the wings, not much over half the 

 length of eastern examples, and often much less ; in the Cali- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 175 



fornian examples the wings are also broader than in the eastern 

 ones, but there is not that wide aberrancy that marks in a 

 moment the above-described New Mexican form. 



The largest examples of Philenor that I have seen were from 

 Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York, whilst the smallest were 

 from Georgia, and especially Florida, where, to the contrary, 

 another of our species, the well-known Tarnus, is found of 

 large and frequently enormous size. The Californian examples 

 of Philenor are small, or, at most, only of medium size. 



Papilio Cleombrotus. 



Expands 3 j inches. Head and body black ; on head are two 

 obscure yellowish spots, two more on the collar, and one on 

 each shoulder. Abdomen with yellow lateral stripes. 



Primaries narrow. 



Upper surface black, with greenish blue sheen on basal third ; 

 a large yellow central spot, partly within the median cell, and 

 partly outside the median nervure. Fringes on upper half 

 outer margin black, on inner half black and white. 



Secondaries rounded outwardly, outer margin dentated. Deep 

 shining greenish blue, except along the costa, where the blue 

 shades into or is replaced by black ; a row of small white sub- 

 marginal lunules ; dentations narrowly fringed with white. 



Under surface. Primaries uniform dark chestnut-brown, with 

 the yellow central spot of upper side repeated. 



Secondaries same brown as primaries, with the same small 

 white submarginal lunules of upper surface ; above each of these 

 latter is a crimson more or less lunate spot, the one near the anal 

 angle very much larger than the others ; at the base of wing three 

 crimson spots placed one at shoulder, one within base of discoidal 

 cell, and one between the median vein and inner margin ; this 

 latter is the largest, and is sagittate in shape. 



From the condition of the abdomen I am unable to decide as 

 to the sex of the single example on which the above description 

 was based. 



Hab. — Amaz. Sup. 



This insect is closely allied to Pausanias Hew., but differs 

 decidedly from it in the following particulars : In the entire 

 absence of the large pale semitransparent apical patch, and in 

 the fringe of inner half of outer margin being white and black 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



instead of black only as in its analogue. In the much greater 

 length of secondaries, and in their rounded outer margin, which 

 in Pausanias is in a straight line from anal angle to apex. In 

 the secondaries being, except along the costa, entirely blue, 

 whilst in the other species that color is confined to the basal half 

 of wing only. 



On the underside in all wings being uniform dark brown, the 

 primaries being devoid of the paler color of outer margin and 

 apical part, as well as of the two or three small yellowish sub- 

 marginal spots near the inner angle, and in the secondaries being 

 without the alternating pale brown rays which emanate from the 

 submarginal crimson lunules in Pausanias, as well as in the 

 absence of the crimson line which in the latter continues from 

 the anal lunule along the median nervure to base. 



Both these species imitate in a remarkable manner Heliconius 

 Clytia, but the mimicry is more complete in Pausanias, owing to 

 its greater length of fore-wing and narrowness of hind-wing. 



Of the last-named species I have seen many examples, of the 

 present described only the single type now before me. 



Theorema Titania. 



Expands 2 inches ; form of T. Eumenia. 



Upper surface. Primaries black, disc and base covered with 

 dark shining greenish scales ; apex tipped with a paler silvery 

 green, which is cut with white hy the veins at and near their 

 termination ; a black marginal line succeeded by pure white 

 fringe. 



Secondaries black with a slight powdering of shining green 

 atoms ; a fairly broad glittering green marginal band extending 

 from apex where it is narrowest to beyond the last median 

 nervulc where it attains its greatest width, this band is cut by 

 the veins, which are black, and is separated from the white fringe 

 by a black line ; on the inner margin above anal angle is a small 

 white spot. Tail black, fringed with white. 



Under surface. All wings black. Primaries narrowly mar- 

 gined with greenish silver, broadest at apex ; fringe white. 

 Secondaries with three parallel rows of bluish white or silvery 

 spots; those nearest the margin are crescent-shape, connected 

 with a marginal line of same color; in the next row they are 

 small, and with the exception of one, which is lunate, are round 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 17 T 



or oval ; those composing the innermost row are smallest, and 

 slightly and somewhat variously lunate. Fringe white. 



From one example taken by the late Prof. Gabb in Costa Rica, 

 now in Mus. Strecker. 



On the upper side, omitting the tails, this insect bears a close 

 resemblance to the females of Eumeeus Toxea and Minyas. 



There is, as far as I am aware of, but one other species of this 

 genus known, T. Eunomia Hew., 1 from New Granada, from which 

 the one here described is entirely distinct. 



Agrias Amydon, Hew. 9 



Expands 3j inches. Head black with four minute white spots 

 above ; palpi } T ellowish white. Body above deep ochraceous 

 orange, below black with pale spots and marks. Wings, pri- 

 maries broader than in the male ; exterior margin straight until 

 near inner and outer angles, where it is rounded. 



Upper surface. Primaries, basal half, or rather more, bright 

 ochraceous, deepening in tint towards the base ; the outer part of 

 wing black ; this latter color starts at the inner angle and extends 

 across in an arched line to within the middle of costa, forming a 

 large triangular patch, which covers the outer part of the wing; 

 a dash or an abbreviated band of black extends from inner angle 

 along inner margin to over half its length ; a band of three whitish 

 yellow spots cross the black color towards the apex. 



Secondaries, black with a small patch of deep ochraceous near 

 the base, and a whitish edging at the apex. 



Under side of all wings colored and marked as in the male, with 

 the exception of the ground-color of primaries, which is ochre 

 yellow instead of red. 



Described from a single example which came to me in a lot of 

 several thousand butterflies, taken at or near Pebas, on the Peru- 

 vian Amazon. 



On the upper side this insect is the exact counterpart on a 

 gigantic scale, of Gatagramma Sinamara Hew., and (if my ex- 

 ample, received from Mr. Hewitson be that species) of G. Amazona 

 Bates, which is. doubtless the 9 of G. cynosura Hew., and further 

 between which and the figure of G. Sinamara I can see no dif- 

 ference. 



1 Hew. 111. Diur. Lep., p. 69, t. 27, figs. 1, 2 (1865). 

 13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



As far as they are known the females of the red species of 

 Agrias mimic in an extraordinary manner the females of certain 

 Catagrammas, and the blue ones the same sex in some of the 

 species of Callithea. 



Plusia corusca. 



Size and shape of Mortuorum Guen. Head and body pale 

 brown, inclining to ochrey beneath- 

 Upper surface. Primaries, ground color brownish pink ; sinuate 

 white or silvery basal and transverse anterior lines edged irregu- 

 larly with deep bronzy brown ; a transverse posterior line, this 

 latter is broken, irregular, of exceeding fineness, and edged at 

 intervals with deep brown ; the space between this line or band 

 and the transverse anterior line, and between the median nervure 

 and inner margin is a deep golden or coppery bronze, according 

 to the light in which it is seen, the same shade occupies most 

 of the space between the submarginal, which is pink and sinuate, 

 and the transverse posterior line, and also covers, except at inner 

 angle, the space between the former and the exterior margin ; a 

 large and very distinct gamma mark as in P. gamma L. 



Secondaries brownish, pale and ochraceous at basal half, and 

 smoky on outer half. 



Hab. — Colorado. One example, Mus. Strecker. 

 Though in detail the markings are somewhat different, still this 

 insect forcibly reminds one of P. mortuorum, were the silver 

 ground of the latter to be replaced by coppery bronze the resem- 

 blance would be very strong. 



Plusia alterna. 



Expands If inches. Allied to Ampla Wlk., but entirely dis- 

 tinct, all wings narrower than in that species, and primaries not 

 as much produced at inner angle. Head and thorax light ashen 

 or purplish gray; patagia? with broad, dark brown margin, which 

 color forms a continuous band across the back. Abdomen light 

 brown. 



Primaries of an even, shining pale, somewhat purplish gray, and 

 without the shading and clouding of outer half as in Ampla ; a 

 large dark space interior to the median nervure, and between the 

 transverse anterior and posterior lines, this space is a dark rich 

 brown, shading into black at upper part where it is outlined by a 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 179 



strong, well-defined silver mark, straight nearest to base, hooked 

 outwardly ; this mark is quite different from the nearly straight 

 insignificant mark of Ampla ; above the outer edge of the dark 

 central patch, the transverse posterior line is double and incon- 

 spicuously continued towards the costa ; the transverse anterior 

 line does not extend beyond the central patch, only at the place 

 where it should terminate on the costa, is a dark spot. A small 

 dark inconspicuous apical spot. 



Secondaries orchrey brown, shading into smoky towards outer 

 margin. 



Uab. — Colorado. One example, Mus. Strecker. 




180 proceedings op the academy op [1885. 



June 9. 

 Dr. Geo. A. Koenig in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



June 16. 



Dr. W. S. W. Rusciienberger in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Dr. J. Henle, a correspondent, on May 15, 1885, 

 was announced. 



June 23. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Fourteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Descriptions of new species of Partula, and 

 a synonymical catalogue of the genus," by Wm. D. Hartman, 

 M. D., was presented for publication. 



June 30. 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., Vice-President, in the chair. 



Twenty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Cervalces Americanus, a fossil Moose, or 

 Elk, from the Quaternary of New Jersey," by W. B. Scott, was 

 presented for publication. 



July 7. 



Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



The death of Dr. Franklin B. Hough, a correspondent, on June 

 11, 1885, was announced. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 181 



CERVALCES AMERICANUS, A FOSSIL MOOSE, OR ELK, FROM THE 

 QUATERNARY OF NEW JERSEY. 



BY W. B. SCOTT. 



Several species of Elk or Moose have been found in the Qua- 

 ternary deposits of the United States, and have been described 

 by various observers. For the most part, however, the remains 

 described have been so imperfect as to be of little value from a 

 morphological point of view. The earliest account we have of 

 such fossils is to be found in the Proceedings of the American 

 Philosophical Society for 1818, p. 375. This is "an account of 

 two heads found in the morass called the Big-Bone Lick, and 

 presented to the Society by Mr. Jefferson," and was written by 

 Dr. Caspar Wistar. One of these heads is assigned by Dr. Wistar 

 to Gervus, and is thus described : " If it belonged to the genus 

 Cervus, it was one of the largest species of that genus. 



" The comparison of figures 4 and 5 with figures 6 and 7 (skull 

 of wapiti), shows that the lately discovered skull resembles that 

 of the Round-Horned Elk at the occiput, although it differs from 

 it greatly in the position and projection of the horns. There 

 is also in the Round-Horned Elk a considerable prominence of 

 the frontal bone between the bases of the horns, which does not 

 appear to have been the case in the newly-discovered head. [In 

 part, at least, this is due to abrasion of the specimen. — S.] The 

 bones of this last-mentioned head have a concavity or depression 

 on the under surface near the root, which is not the case in the 

 Round-Horned Elk. 



" The cranium of the Moose, or Cervus alces, is very different. 

 The occipital portion is concave exteriorly, and the superior 

 margin has an angular indentation in it. There is a remarkable 

 prominence between the horns, which extends considerably towards 

 the nose. The horns of it project laterally like those of the newly- 

 discovered head, and they have a concavity on the under surface 

 near the root." . . . "I believe that each of the last-mentioned 

 heads (i. e., wapiti and moose), is at least of the ordinary size, as 

 their horns are large, and it appears, from a comparison of the 

 respective measurements, that the head lately discovered is larger 

 than either of them." 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Wistar did not name the species here described ; this was done 

 in 1825 by Harlan, in his Fauna Americana, who called it Cervus 

 americanus. The only addition of importance to our knowledge 

 of this species we owe to Dr. Leidy, who, in his "Ancient Mam- 

 malian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska," p. 379, describes a pair 

 of metacarpals accompanying the head described by Wistar, 

 which Leidy says indicate an animal of greater stature, but more 

 graceful proportions, than the great Irish Deer. 



When Harlan named the species, the genera Cervus and Alces 

 had not been separated ; their later separation gave rise to a great 

 confusion of nomenclature. In 1835 Sir William Jardine (Natu- 

 ralists' Library, vol. xxi, p. 125), elevated Alces into a distinct 

 genus, and called the American species A. americanus. Jardine 

 supposed that Harlan's species was a true Cervus, and refers to 

 it as the " fossil cranium and horns of a stag, ... to which 

 Dr. Harlan has applied the name of G. americanus," (p. 162). In 

 1836 Ogilby named the European elk Alces machlis (P. Z. S., 

 1836, p. 135), the name now generally employed for both varie- 

 ties, while Harlan's name for the species described by Wistar has 

 never been disturbed or questioned. But judging from Wistar's 

 specimen, it becomes at once evident that this species is altogether 

 different from Cervus, and belongs either to Alces or some closely 

 allied genus. If it is to be classed in Alces, its specific name 

 must be A. americanus, which name has been used by Jardine for 

 the American moose. It will thus be seen that a serious confu- 

 sion of names has arisen. 



No other American fossil moose has received a special name, 

 though many specimens have been found, some of the finest of 

 which were in the Museum of the Chicago Academy of Sciences, 

 and were destined in the great fire of 187 1. 1 



Through the kindness of the Rev. A. A. Haines, the Museum 

 at Princeton has received an almost complete skeleton of a very 

 large extinct species of elk or moose, which was discovered in a 

 shell-marl deposit under a bog at Mt. Hermon, New Jersey, six 

 miles from Delaware Station on the Delaware, Lackawanna and 

 Western Railroad. This superb specimen is practically complete, 

 the only missing bones being five caudal vertebras; two ribs; the 

 right scapula and humerus ; the right unciform and pisiform, and 



See Judge Caton's Antelope and Deer of America, p. 194. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



the trapezium of each side ; one anterior ungual phalanx ; the left 

 calcaneum, and a number of bones of the rudimentary lateral 

 digits. With the exception of the caudal vertebrae ever}- missing 

 bone of importance is represented by its fellow of the opposite 

 side, so that it was well nigh impossible to go astray in making 

 the necessary restorations. 



The skeleton was of an adult, but not old, individual, as is 

 shown by the condition of the epiphysis and teeth. The missing 

 parts have been restored, and the entire specimen most skilfully 

 mounted by Curator F. C. Hill. (See PI. II). 



A careful comparison of the Princeton specimen with that 

 described b} r Wistar, which, together with the metacarpals de- 

 scribed by Leidy , is preserved in the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, convinces me that in all probability the two 

 specimens belong to the same species. There are some unim- 

 portant differences and the old specimen is too imperfect to put 

 this identification beyond question. But what remains of the 

 Philadelphia skull agrees almost perfectly with the Princeton 

 one, and at present there can be no reason for assigning them to 

 different species. 



On examination, however, it becomes evident that the species 

 in question cannot be included in any known genus, as these are 

 at present defined. While its affinities are undoubtedly closest to 

 Alces. yet if we include it in that genus, the generic definition 

 must be altogether remodeled and some of its most prominent 

 characteristics wouid have to be suppressed. The differences from 

 all known species which this fossil form shows, are of sufficient 

 importance to entitle it to rank as a separate genus. With con- 

 siderable reluctance, therefore, and in view of the confused 

 nomenclature of the species, I feel compelled to form a new name 

 for the genus. I would propose the name Cervalces, as indicating 

 the types which it seems to connect. The genus may be defined as 

 follows: Cervalces. Antlers dichotomous and palmated, though 

 much less so than in Alces; beams horizontal^ directed, as in 

 that genus, but with much longer pedicels ; bez-antler and pos- 

 terior tine present as in Dama, but these are connected by a broad 

 and flaring process of bone, which descends below the level of 

 the eyes. This does not occur in any other member of the 

 Cervidse. Nasals much longer than in Alces, a little shorter than 




184 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



in Cervus ; anterior nares very much smaller than in the former, 

 but larger than in the latter ; premaxillai shaped as in Cervus 

 and reaching the nasals. Head broader than in Alces, promi- 

 nence on frontal ridge and supra-occipital indentation absent. 

 Upper and lower molars with supplementary columns ; no upper 

 canines. Ante-orbital vacuity bounded above by a separate bone 

 (prefrontal?). Neck and trunk short, legs exceedingly long. 

 Distal ends of lateral metacarpals present ; internal cuneiform 

 fused with the metatarsal. 



As Harlan's name must undoubtedly be retained this species 

 will be known as Cervalces americanus. 



In the skeleton of this curious and striking fossil, the most 

 obvious peculiarity is the great length of the legs, which gives 

 the animal a remarkably stilted appearance, while the thorax is 

 shallow, and the neck short. The shoulders are higher than the 

 hips, as in the moose, and unlike the stag. The combined length 

 of the head and neck shows that in the ordinary position of the 

 legs, the muzzle would not reach the ground by 14 or 15 inches. 

 Measured in the same manner the moose's muzzle reaches within 

 about 10 inches from the ground, and that of Megaceros 8 or 9. 

 These facts are of importance with reference to the question of 

 the animal's habits and the presence of a prehensile upper lip. 



Turning now to the characteristics of the skeleton in detail, we 

 begin with : 



Flo. 1. Side view of face of Cervus Canadensis. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



185 



Fig. 2. Side view of face of Cervatces Americanus. 



Fig. 3. Side view of face of Alee* machlU. 



The Skull. 



The skull resembles most that of the living moose, though strik- 

 ingly different from it in many respects, in which it approximates 

 to Gervus. In spite of the greater size of the animal, the 

 skull is both absolutely and relatively shorter than in the moose ; 

 this reduction, however, is chiefly confined to the region in 

 front of the molar teeth. The cranium is considerably broader 

 than in Alces, especially between the bases of the antlers. The 

 appearance of that part of the face which is in advance of the 

 molar teeth is strikingly different from the same region in the 

 moose, and approximates rather that of Gervus (see figs. 1, 2 and 

 3). This difference is further increased by the fact that the nasals 




180 I'KoOEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



of the fossil are more than twice as long as in the moose ; this 

 increase of length of the nasals, together with the shortening of 

 the face renders the appearance of the anterior nares very dif- 

 ferent from those of the moose. The edge of the nares in the 

 latter measures nearly 1 1 inches, in the fossil hardly 8 ; in a large 

 skull of* Gervus canadensis the measurement is 44 inches. 



The Premaxillse are like those of Cervus and not at all like 

 those of Alee s ; they lie external to the anterior ends of the 

 maxillae and reach up to the nasals with which they articulate by 

 a surface nearly an inch in length, while in the moose the ascend- 

 ing ramus of the premaxilla is inserted into a groove in the 

 front edge of the maxilla and does not reach tfle nasals by several 

 inches. This is not due merely to a shortening of the nasals, for 

 though the ascending ramus is very long, its direction is so ob- 

 lique that it does not rise to the level of the nasal, and no pro- 

 longation of the latter would effect a junction. The shape of the 

 premaxilla is also very different in the two species, the horizontal 

 portion being shorter, the ascending portion longer, and the 

 posterior angle between the two sharper in the fossil than in the 

 recent form. In all these respects the former shows an approxi- 

 mation to the shape of the bone in Cervus. Seen from the side 

 the edge of the nasal opening is very different from that of the 

 moose. In the latter this edge is very long and directed ob- 

 liquely downwards and forwards (see fig. 1), while in the former 

 the descent is much more abrupt. The whole tube inclosing the 

 nasal cavity is much longer than in the moose, in which animal 

 the turbinal bones project beyond the edge of the premaxillse 

 (fig. 3), and so can be seen from the side, while in the fossil they 

 do not quite reach the edge of the nares (fig. 2). 



The Maxillae are more like the corresponding bones of Cervus 

 than those of the moose. The difference, however, is almost al- 

 together in the anterior part. The front edge is much less 

 oblique and takes no part in the formation of the anterior nares. 

 The edentulous part of the bone in advance of the molars is 

 much shorter than in the moose, but the upper facial portion is 

 of about the same length. As in Alces, the palatine plates in 

 front of the molar teeth arc contracted much more than in Cervus. 

 There is a further difference from either of the genera in the fact 

 that the alveolus behind the last molar is very narrow and short, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 187 



ending in a mere book. The condition is not unlike that seen in 

 Megaceros. 



The Nasals are intermediate in size and shape between those of 

 C'ervus and Alces. In 0. canadensis these bones are about j£ the 

 entire length of the skull, in the moose a little less than £, in 

 Gervalces ^. In length, in their narrower and emarginate free 

 ends, the nasals are like those of the true deer, but resemble those 

 of the moose in not being so flat, but having the upper and lateral 

 parts meeting at nearly a right-angle. The nasals in the fossil are 

 in contact throughout their entire length, not having their pos- 

 terior ends separated by the wedge-shaped process of the frontals, 

 as is the case in the moose. These posterior ends are sharper 

 and less abruptly truncated than in the latter animal. 



The length of the nasals and shape of the anterior nares in 

 Gervalces show that if the animal possessed a proboscis-like snout 

 at all, it could not have been anj'thing like as prominent and well 

 developed as in the moose ; such a proboscis being always accom- 

 panied by a great shortening of the nasals, as in the elephant, 

 tapir, moose, Sivatherium, etc. 



The Frontals present us with another difference from the moose 

 and resemblance to the deer. As in both genera, there is an 

 abrupt depression of the forehead in front of the antlers, but this 

 is less than in Alces. In the latter there is a sharp knob on the 

 ridge connecting the pedicels of the antlers, but in the fossil this 

 knob is but faintly indicated. The forehead is broader and the 

 orbits more projecting than in the moose, in both respects show- 

 ing approximations to the cervine type. 



The Lachrymal is of the ordinary size and shape, but the pit is 

 unusually shallow. The ante-orbital vacuity is more quadrate in 

 shape than is the case in Alces. The upper edge of this vacuity 

 is bounded by a small distinct bone which I have not been able 

 to find in any other of the Cerridee, though what looks like a 

 rudiment of it is attached to the nasal in the moose. The bone 

 in question articulates with the nasal, frontal and maxillary ; 

 thus in position corresponding to the prefrontal, though morpho- 

 logically it may be a separated portion of the nasal. It is hardly 

 probable that this is a mere sport, as the bone is present on both 

 sides, and is certainly a great peculiarity. (Fig. 2, P. F.) 



The Jugal has more the shape of that in Cervus than that of 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



the moose, in the simpler maxillary suture and shorter anterior 

 process. The orbit is somewhat smaller than in the moose, and 

 more nearly circular, the vertical diameter being greater in the 

 latter, while the antero-posterior diameter is about the same in 

 both. While the frontal rim of the orbit is more projecting than 

 in Alces and the whole orbit is deeper, the jugal rim is less dis- 

 tinctly marked off from the body of the bone. 



The Squamosal, with its zygomatic process, is almost exactly 

 like that of the moose, the zygoma being directed downwards 

 and forwards, instead of being almost horizontal as in the other 

 Cervidde. This peculiar shape of the zygoma is due to the great 

 depression of the forehead, which, though somewhat less than in 

 the moose, is greater than in the deer. If the plane of the upper 

 molar alveolus be produced backwards, it will be found that the 

 distance from the summit of the sagittal crest to this plane is 

 much greater than in Megaceros (Cervalces 9 in., Megaceros not 

 quite 6). 



The Occiput. As Wistar pointed out, the occiput of the fossil 

 is rather deer-like, in lacking the indentation of the supra-occipital, 

 and in the greater flatness of the entire occiput. As in the moose, 

 however, the condyles are nearl}' in contact below, while in Gervus 

 they are quite widely separated. The basi-occipital has two large 

 rugosities just in advance of the condyles, as in Alces and Mega- 

 ceros. The paroccipital processes are stout and of the same 

 shape as in the moose, though somewhat shorter. The propor- 

 tions of the exposed part of the periotic are about as in that 

 animal. The same is true of the tympanic which does not form 

 an inflated auditoiy bulla. 



The structures at the base of the skull — sphenoids, pterygoids, 

 palatines, vomer and turbinals— need no special description, being 

 veiy much as in the moose. 



The Inferior Maxillary resembles the corresponding bone in 

 the moose more than that of the other Cervidse, but with some 

 differences. The jaw, as a whole, is somewhat shorter and broader, 

 the diastema and symphysis slightly shorter, and the coronoid 

 process shorter and heavier. 



The Dentition is like that of the moose, though with some 

 cervine features. The crowns of the upper molars are shorter 

 than in Gervus, bul us in some species of that genus they have 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



189 



well-marked internal supplementary columns ; all the lower molars 

 have distinct external columns. In some specimens of the moose 

 there is a small column on the first molar, a slight indication of 

 one on the second, and none on the third ; in others the second and 

 third have small rudimentary columns. This may, perhaps, indi- 

 cate that in this species the columns are in process of disappear- 

 ance, having vanished in the upper jaw from all but the first 

 molar. According to Owen, these columns are present in the 

 upper molars of A Ices (Brit. Foss. Mam., p. 450). This may be 

 true of the Swedish elk, but not of the American specimens I 

 have been able to examine. These supplementary columns do 

 not appear to be constant generic characters, perhaps not even 

 specific, though this latter is doubtful. 



The stylo-lryals are present in the specimen, but are not espe- 

 cially peculiar. 



The Antlers. The most striking peculiarities of Gervalces are 

 to be found in the antlers, which are different from those of any 

 of the Cervidse, recent or fossil, with which I have been able to 

 compare it, or of which I have seen any figure or description. 



Fig. 4. Skull and antlers of Megacerot hibernicut. 




190 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



FT 





Via. 5. Skull and antlers of Ccrvalres Americanus. 



Fict. 6. Skull and antlers of Alee* machlii. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



The pedicels have an altogether horizontal direction, are some- 

 what longer than in the moose, and show a deeper posterior con- 

 striction, to allow the unobstructed movement of the coronoid 

 process. The burrs are quite widely separated, almost an inch 

 more than in the specimen described by Dr. Wistar. The beam 

 is directed horizontally outwards, as in Alces, even drooping a 

 little, as noticed by Leidy, and is unusually long before reaching 

 the point of branching. Leaving out of account for the present 

 the peculiar portion of the antler, it obviously belongs to the 

 palmated dichotomous t}'pe of Alces. The ordinarily accepted 

 view with regard to the antlers of that animal is that brow-antlers 

 are not present. Sir Victor Brooke, however, considers the 

 anterior division of the antler the homologue of the brow-branch 

 (P. Z. S., 1878, p. 915). Assuming the correctness of the ordinary 

 view, the fossil form agrees with the recent in being devoid of 

 the brow-branch. The main antler is divided into two palmated 

 portions, of which the anterior is the smaller, though it is both 

 proportionally and absolutely much larger than in the moose 

 (figs. 5 and 6, A). This portion is twisted on itself so that its 

 flat side is presented forwards in a plane almost at right-angles 

 to that of the posterior division. The palmation of this anterior 

 portion is somewhat more pronounced, and the tines more flat- 

 tened than in the moose. In the figures all the tines appear 

 somewhat blunt, though this is due to the fact that the animal 

 died while the antlers were yet in " the velvet." In the moose 

 the division into the two palms takes place in a plane only a littie 

 above the level of the frontal ridge (2^ in.), in the fossil the beam 

 turns sharply upwards for several inches (6i) before the point of 

 separation is reached. The appearance of the anterior branch is 

 very different from what is seen in the moose. In the specimen 

 before us there arises from the point of division a narrow flat 

 plate somewhat twisted on itself, which gives off a sharp and 

 stout lateral tine, two or three inches above the point of division ; 

 above this tine the plate broadens for a little distance and then 

 bifurcates. On the right side both of these divisions are again 

 bifurcated, the outer one much more deeply than the inner ; on 

 the left side the inner prong does. not divide, though it is broad 

 and flat. This gives five prongs on the right side and four on the 

 left. Except the lateral tine, all the tines are flattened antero- 

 posteriorly, having a plate-like appearance from the front. 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



In the moose, on the other hand, the anterior division shows a 

 broad basal palm, which sends up a number of long, sharp and 

 rounded tines, all arising at about the same level (fig. fi, A), 

 though adjacent ones may be more or less connected by palma- 

 tion. 



The posterior division of the antler also diners markedly from 

 that of the moose in being much smaller and much less palmated. 

 The size of the palm in its greatest diameter being 9 b} T 8 inches, 

 while in one specimen of the American moose at Princeton these 

 dimensions are 28 by 17 inches. In the latter animal the tines 

 of this division of the antler are, with the exception of the first 

 mere finger-like processes from the top of the palm (fig. 6). In 

 Gervalces, as in the European elk, and some specimens of the 

 American moose, the tines are very much longer, though the- palm 

 in the European variet}^ is still much greater than in the fossil. 

 Owing to the height at which division into the anterior and pos- 

 terior branches of the antlers takes place in Gervalces, the first 

 tine of the hinder branch is very much shorter than in the moose 

 (Gervalces 13^ inches, Alces 21 inches). 



The pi-oportionate number of tines in the two divisions is also 

 different in the living and extinct species. In one American 

 moose I find the numbers to be : right antler, anterior 3, posterior 

 8 ; left, ant. 4, post. 8. Another specimen gives : ant. 2, post. 5 ; 

 in a third specimen, ant. 4, post. 8. A European specimen gives 

 ant. 4, post. 1 ; another is ant. 3, post. 6. In the fossil, on the 

 other hand, we have on the right side, ant. 5, post. 5; left side, 

 ant. 4, post. 4; showing a different method of growth in Gervalces 

 from that observed in any known species of Alces. 



The feature, however, which differentiates the antler of Gervalces 

 from that of all other known Cervidse remains to be described. 

 Where the upper edge of the beam rises to form the palmated por- 

 tion of the antlers, the lower edge expands into an immense con- 

 cave process, which is presented outwards like the mouth of a 

 trumpet, and which ends both anteriorly and posteriorly in a round, 

 pointed tine, the latter being long, the former quite short (fig. 5, 

 P. T. and Bz.). The posterior tine is directed obliquely outwards 

 and backwards, s<> that the distance between those of the two 

 antlers exceeds five feet. On the left side there is a rudimentary 

 tine or snag at the base of the long posterior tine, on the right 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



193 



P.T 



side the broad plate of bone gradually tapers off into the tine. 

 It is a curious fact that these great ear-like processes descend 

 considerably below the level of the eyes, so that the animal's 

 vision in a lateral direction must have been seriously intei'fered 

 with. It is difficult to understand how any such structure of the 

 antlers could have arisen or what its purpose was. 



On comparing the antlers of the extinct species with those of 



the moose, it becomes evident 

 that the former consist of the 

 same pai'ts as those of the lat- 

 ter, with something added to 

 them. Just what these addi- 

 tional parts are is by no means 

 easy to say. The anterior tine 

 (of the ear-shaped process) may 

 be the bez-antler, while the pos- 

 terior one may correspond to 

 the tine which in Megaceros 

 (figs. 4 and 4 a, P. T.), the fal- 

 low deer (see Brooke, P. Z. S., 

 1878, p. 914, fig. 9), and some 

 others, is given off from the 

 hinder surface of the beam 

 nearly opposite the bez-antler 

 (d in Brooke's system). If in Megaceros the palmated portion 

 of the antler were bent sharply upwards nearly at right-angles 

 with the beam, the posterior tine directed more outwards and 

 connected by a broad and flaring plate of bone with the bez-antler 

 in front, the resulting condition would be very much what we 

 find in Cervalces. If this conjecture as to the homologies of 

 these tines be correct, Sir Victor Brooke's views on the parts of 

 the moose's antler can hardly be accepted (P. Z. S., 1878, p. 915). 

 It is worthy of notice that in Cervalces almost all the weight of 

 the antlers is in advance of the occiput. To a much smaller 

 extent this is true of the moose, while in most of the Cervidse 

 the weight is entirely back of the occiput. 



It might be suspected (as for a time 1 did suspect) that in this 

 fossil we have to do with a case of monstrosity rather than with 

 a true species character — some such phenomenon as the double- 



Fig. 4 a. 



Right antler of Megaceros hibemicus, from 



the inside. 



14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



palmed moose antlers from Sweden, and those found fossil in 

 America, as illustrated by Judge Caton, 1 or as in the case of the 

 curiously palmated antlers from Texas, reported by the same ob- 

 server (American Naturalist, vol. xviii, p. 136). While of course 

 this may possibly be the case, it seems very improbable for the 

 following reasons : (1) The symmetry of the antlers, which show 

 no sign of injury or distortion, and which are precisely alike on 

 both sides, except that on one side two tines ai-e bifid, which on 

 the other are single. But such inequality is very common on all 

 large antlers ; in fact, is rather the rule than the exception. The 

 double-palmed antlers of which Judge Caton speaks are so only 

 one side. (2) Monstrosities, except in cases of atavism or in 

 mere repetition of parts normally present, are much more apt to 

 be in the direction of simplification than of increased complexit}'. 

 It is therefore very unlikely that these antlers are simply sports 

 from the ordinary Alces type, for they contain elements which are 

 never found in the moose, but which seem rather to belong to 

 the true deer. 



Gray's view that Cariacus lacks the brow-antler can hardly be 

 correct, as the so-called "basal-snag" of that genus is clearly 

 nothing else. Prof. Cope's statement 2 that palmation of the 

 antlers transfers a form from Cariacus to Alces, is one that I 

 cannot accept. Of the many differences which separate the two 

 genera, the palmation of the antlers is the least important. Any 

 such transfer must ignore the much more significant features of 

 the teeth, skull, and limbs. 



Skeleton of the Trunk. 



Cervical Vertebrae. The neck is short when compared with the 

 height of the animal, shorter even than in the moose. The atlas 

 is provided with a large and heavy hypapophysis, of which only 

 a small rudiment is to be seen in the moose or in Megaceros, but 

 is quite well developed in Cervus elaphus. Richardson, however, 

 figures a moose's atlas from Canada, in which the hypapophysis 

 is very distinct (Zoology, Voyage of Herald, pi. xxi and xxii). 

 The remaining cervicals show only differences of detail from those 

 of Alces; thus the transverse process of the axis is more slender, 



1 Antelope and Deer of America, p. 194. 



2 American Naturalist, vol. xviii, p. 738. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



the pleurapophysial plate on the sixth vertebrae is smaller, that 

 on the fifth larger. 



The only other member of the Cervidas with which Gervalces 

 can be compared in size, is the great extinct Irish deer Megaceros. 

 But in the latter we find a very much longer neck, the vertebrse 

 of which are vastly heavier, and all the processes are larger and 

 stouter, showing the great muscular power necessary to wield 

 the immense antlers. In Gervalces the cervical vertebrse appear 

 puny in comparison. 



Trunk Vertebrae. In Megaceros these vertebrae are provided 

 with very long and heavy spines ; those of the anterior thoracic 

 being twelve or thirteen inches in length, on the posterior about 

 eight. In Cervalces the spines are shorter and especially lighter. 

 The rise of the back at the withers is even less marked than in 

 the moose. The vertebral centra are also shorter and lighter 

 than in Megaceros, giving a much shorter trunk. The lumbar, 

 sacral and caudal vertebrse do not differ in any important way 

 from those of the moose, except that the neural spines of the 

 sacrum are somewhat more closely co-ossified. 



The Bibs are rather short, only a very little longer than in the 

 moose, and therefore proportionately considerably shorter. The 

 thorax is consequently shallow, and together with the long limbs 

 gives the animal a stilted appearance. The greatest depth of 

 thorax from tip of neural spine to the sternum is in Megaceros 

 34 inches, in Cervalces 29, in the moose 28. 



The Sternum, curiousty enough, is somewhat different from 

 that of the moose ; the manubrium being smaller and of a some- 

 what different shape. The first two segments of the mesosternum 

 resemble the corresponding parts in Cervus, and differ from those 

 of Alces in being long and narrow, instead of short and broad. 



The Limbs. 



The limbs are remarkable for their great length and slender- 

 ness. Though considerably longer than those of the great Irish 

 deer, 1 they are not nearly so stout. The hind legs are especially 

 long, but the withers are higher than the rump, as is the case 



1 It is very unfortunate that the name "Irish Elk" is so commonly 

 applied to this animal, which seems rather to have been a gigantic fallow- 

 deer. 




196 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



with the moose. The Scapula is rather small in proportion to 

 the size of the animal, being a little shorter than in the moose, 

 and much more so than in Megaceros. In shape the bone is more 

 cervine than alcine ; the anterior border is straighter, and the 

 prescapular fossa smaller than in the moose, while the neck is 

 less contracted and the coracoid larger. 



The Humerus is not different in any important way from that 

 of the moose, except for a slight increase in length. 



The Ulna and Radius show a still greater increase in length, 

 but are only slightly thicker than in the moose, so in proportion 

 they are more slender. As in Alces, the two bones are co-ossified 

 only at the distal end, instead of being firmly united for two- 

 thirds their length as in most deer. 



The Carpus is like that of the moose in almost every particu- 

 lar, consisting of scaphoid, lunar, cuneiform, pisiform, trapezium, 

 trapezo-magnum, and unciform. 



The Metacarpus is very long, much of the great height of the 

 animal being due to it. It is about one-half an inch shorter than 

 in the largest of the two Philadelphia specimens, but the propor- 

 tions are almost identical. The rudimentary lateral metacarpals 

 are like those of the moose in shape, but are longer. 



The Phalanges of the median digits are unusually long and 

 slender, even when compared with those of the moose. The 

 unguals are veiy long and pointed. The phalanges of the rudi- 

 mentary digits are larger and heavier than in the moose. 



The Pelvis is almost precisely like that of the moose, and needs 

 no particular description. 



The Femur is slightly longer, but no heavier than in the moose, 

 and offers a striking contrast to the massive thigh-bone of Mega- 

 ceros, which is as heavy as that of an ox. The trochlear groove 

 is shallow, with sharp edges, and the patella is small. The great 

 trochanter is higher than in the Megaceros, and rises more verti- 

 cally from the shaft, but all the other processes for muscular 

 attachment are much less prominent. 



The Tibia is an exceedingly long bone, but its increase in 

 length has not been accompanied by any corresponding increase 

 in thickness. The astragalar groove is like that of Alces, the 

 fibular facet and the fibula are like those of Cervus. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



197 



The Tarsus is somewhat longer than in the moose, of about 



the same length, but narrower than 

 in Megaceros. The calcaneum is 

 nearly an inch longer than in either 

 form, giving a prominent " hock- 

 joint." In the smaller bones of the 

 tarsus we find some curious relations. 

 On the left side the arrangement of 

 these bones is nearly the usual one 

 among the Cervidse. That is to say, 

 the cuboid and navicular are fused 

 into one bone, the second and third 

 cuneiforms into another, but, strange 

 to say, the first cuneiform is firmly 

 ankylosed with the metatarsus, form- 

 ing a little step against which the 

 compound cuneiform abuts. In the 

 right foot the process of ankylosis 

 has gone further and gives a tarsus 

 which is even more concentrated than 

 fig. 7. in the Tragulina. (See fig. 7). The 



Right Tarsus of Cervalces Americanus. compound Cuneiform is fused with 



the cubo-navicular (fig. 7, N. and Gb. and (7., 2 and 3), and the 

 first cuneiform, as in the left foot, with the metatarsus (fig. 7, G 3). 

 This fusion of tarsal bones with the metatarsus is very curious. 

 It does not occur in any known ungulate, and I am acquainted 

 with no other mammal in which it can be found. A tarso- 

 metatarsus, in the same sense, but to a less degree, as in birds, 

 is thus formed. 



The Metatarsus is very long, and of about the same propor- 

 tions as in the moose. 



The Phalanges of the median digits are a little longer than in 



the fore-foot, those of the rudimentary digits of about the same 



size. 



Conclusion. 



Cervalces Americanus is a very interesting form, and offers 

 some morphological suggestions of great value. Geologically it 

 teaches little that was not known. Its occurrence so far south 

 of the moose '8 range, points to a colder climate than the present, 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



though the perfect preservation and freshness of the bones in the 

 Princeton skeleton make it hard to believe that they are more 

 than a few years old. 



In all probability the habits of the animal, and to a great 

 degree its appearance, were those of the moose. Its short neck 

 shows that it would have great difficulty in grazing, and so prob- 

 ably lived by browsing upon shrubs and trees. This was aided, 

 no doubt, by a more or less prehensile upper lip, which the char- 

 acter of the nasal opening shows to have been more proboscis- 

 like than in the deer, though far less so than in the moose. 



Morphologically the fossil is of interest for the light which it 

 seems to throw upon the question of the origin of the genus 

 Alces, and its relations to the typical deer. Sir Victor Brooke 

 and Prof. Garrod have shown that the Cervidee may be subdivided 

 into great groups according to the characters of the skull and 

 fore-feet. According to the latter we have the Plesio- and Tele- 

 metacarpi, or those which retain the proximal and distal ends of 

 the metacarpals respectively. With one exception, Cervus cana- 

 densis, all American deer are Telemetacarpi, while nearly all of 

 the Old World deer are Plesiometacarpi. Those of circumpolar 

 range, the reindeer and moose, are both Telemetacarpi. Another 

 distinction is found in the structure of the skull. In one division, 

 the American deer (except G. canadensis), the vomer reaches the 

 palatines and projects beyond them, dividing the posterior nares 

 into two. The Old World deer have a vomer that does not reach 

 the palatines, and the posterior nares are not divided. In Alces 

 we have the latter type of skull. 



The chief differences between the true Gervus and Alces are as 

 follows : (1) The former is plesio-, the latter tele-metacarpal, both 

 agreeing in the structure of the nasal passages. (2) Gervus has 

 cylindrical antlers, with brow- and bez-tines rising abruptly from 

 long pedicels. Alces has palmated antlers, without brow- or bez- 

 tines, the beam directed horizontally from the short pedicels. (3) 

 In Alces the nasals are very short, the anterior nares of great 

 extent; in Cervus the nasals are long, and the anterior nares 

 small. (4) In Alces the premaxillse are imbedded in a groove of 

 the maxilla', and do not reach the nasals; in Cervus they lie 

 external to the maxillae, and (in some species at least) do reach 

 the nasal. (5) In Alces there is a deep notch on the supra- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 199 



occipital, and a prominent knob on the frontal ridge, neither of 

 which is present in Cervus. (6) In Cervus the skull is short and 

 broad, and the diastema of moderate length ; in Alces the skull 

 is long and narrow, and the diastema ver}' long. (7) In Cervus 

 the tympanic bulla is inflated ; in Alces not. (8) Cervus has a 

 horizontal zygoma; in Alces it is directed downwards and forwards. 



(9) Cervus possesses canine teeth in both sexes; Alces in neither. 



(10) Alces has a short neck and trunk, long limbs and head; 

 Cervus has longer neck and trunk and shorter legs. (11) In 

 Alces there is a proboscis-like upper lip and almost obsolete 

 rhinarium; Cervus has larger rhinarium and ordinary snout. In 

 nearly all of these particulars, Alces is plainly a greater departure 

 from the ordinaiy cervine type than is Cervus, and must, there- 

 fore, be regarded as a more differentiated and highly specialized 

 form. If this be the case, we should naturally conclude that 

 Alces is the descendant of some form much more closely allied to 

 Cervus than itself is. That the descent cannot be from the actual 

 genus Cervus seems to be plain from the character of the fore- 

 foot. A reasonable inference seems to be that the common ances- 

 tor of the two genera had already attained the structure of skull 

 found in the Old World deer, but that its fore-feet were tetra- 

 dactyl, the lateral metacarpals, though slender, were complete or 

 nearly so in length. 



Now Cervalces throws some light upon this community of 

 origin and subsequent divergence of the two genera. In many 

 respects, as we have already seen, Cervalces differs very decidedly 

 from Alces, and nearly all these differences are approximations 

 to the structure of Cervus, a result which can hardly be accidental. 

 But except in the skull, the structure of the fossil form is much 

 nearer to that of Alces. The fossil agrees with Alces: (1) In 

 the short neck and trunk and very long legs ; (2) in being 

 telemetacarpal ; (3) in having palmated antlers ; (4) in the absence 

 of an inflated tympanic bulla; (5) in the shape of the zygoma; 

 (6) in the absence of canine teeth. 



On the other hand it agrees with Cervus: (1) In the presence 

 of the bez-tine (?) and posterior tine on the antlers ; (2) in having 

 long nasals; (3) in the shape and relations of the premaxillae ; 

 (4) in the absence of the supra-occipital notch and knob on the 

 frontal ridge ; (5) in the greater proportionate breadth of the 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



skull ; (G) Cervalces almost certainly bad a rhinarium and upper 

 lip more like that of Cervus than of Alces. 



Cervalces differs from both genera: (1) In the intermediate 

 condition of the anterior nares ; (2) the peculiar antlers ; (3) the 

 distinct prefrontals ; (4) the remarkable concentration of the 

 tarsals. 



It thus seems very probable that Alces is descended from a 

 type with limbs, skull and antlers of the ordinary type and with 

 tetradactyle fore-feet, but has modified these in various ways. 

 The length of limb seems to be connected with the habitat of the 

 animal in snowj' regions, and we are told that the moose can make 

 his way with great swiftness through snow-drifts that will engulf 

 ordinary cattle. The unusual size of the lateral digits seems to 

 have reference to the animal's habit of living in swampy lands 

 during the summer, and so needing a broad surface to prevent 

 sinking in the mud. The shortening of the neck is difficult to 

 account for, but the proboscis-like upper lip seems to be clearly 

 connected with the habit of browsing upon ti'ees. Shortening of 

 the neck is very generally associated .with the development of a 

 prehensile lip ; e. g., the combined length of head and neck in the 

 rhinoceros is relatively greater than in the tapir. 



Cervalces seems to have been a contemporary of the moose 

 which also occurs in quaternary deposits, though in all probability 

 the former is the older of the two. Its extinction may be referred 

 to the general causes which destroyed so many of the large qua- 

 ternary mammals, though the competition of the more perfectly 

 adapted moose may have had something to do. with it. 



Whatever taxonomic value be allowed to the peculiarities of 

 this strange fossil, the fact remains that in it we can catch some 

 glimpse of the successive steps by which the remarkable genus 

 Alces has originated. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Measurements. 



201 



It will be noticed that the dimensions here given for Megaceros, 

 which are taken from a skeleton in the Princeton Museum, are 

 very different from those given by Owen in his " British Fossil 

 Mammals." The discrepancy is largely due to different methods 

 of mounting. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



EXPLANATION OF FIGURES AND PLATE. 



Fig. 1. Side view of skull of Cervus canadensis. 

 Fig. 2. Side view of Oervalces americanus. 

 Fig. 3. Side view of Alces machlis. 



References for figs. 1-3. — Fr., frontal; N., nasal; Tb., turbinal; 

 Pmx., premaxilla ; M., maxilla ; Pf., prefrontal (?); 0., orbit; 

 A. 0., ante-orbital vacuity. 

 Fig. 4. Skull and antlers of Megaceros hibernicus. 

 Fig. 4 a. Right antler of Megaceros hibernicus, from the inside (from Owen, 



British Foss. .Mam. and Birds, fig. 186, p. 4">6). 

 Fig. 5. Skull and antlers of Oervalces americanus. 

 Fig. C. Skull and antlers of Alces machlis. 



References for figs. 4-6. — Br., brow antlers ; Bz., bcz-tine; P.T., 



posterior tine (as of Brooke's system); A., anterior division of 



main antler; P., posterior division of main antler. 



Fig. 7. Right tarsus of Oervalces americanus. T., tibia ; Ca., calcaneum ; 



As., astragalus; iV, Cb. & 2 & 3, compound bone formed by 



fusion of cuboid, navicular, second and third cuneiforms ; CI, 



first cuneiform, fused with metatarsus ; Mt., metatarsus. 



Plate II. 



Skeleton of Oervalces americanus (from a photograph). The scale is in 

 feet, and tenths of feet. 



I wish to express here my obligations to Dr. F. C. Hill, Curator of the 

 Museum, for his invaluable assistance in this work. I am indebted to him 

 for the drawings of Figs. 1, '2, :! and 7. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF PARTULA AND A SYNONYMIC ' 

 CATALOGUE OF THE GENUS. 



BY WM. D. HARTMAN, M. D. 



Partula Magdalinae, nobis. 



Shell short, conic, dextral, inflated, thin and fragile; spire 

 short, half the length ; umbilicus somewhat compressed ; whorls 

 H, apical whorls veiy thin, rounded and sub-transparent, with 

 the embiyonic lines of fovea deeply impressed, which 

 ^L become numerous waved spiral stria;, decussated by fine 

 ^K^A. oblique lines of growth, causing a granulated appear- 

 ^^SK\ ance of the surface; body-whorl much inflated, with the 



^^5^ basal half thickened and rounded ; columella wide at 

 the base, and nodulose; color white, epidermis thin, 

 pale green, in bands on the basal half; aperture perpendicular, 

 large, rounded ovate, lip thin, white, concave and reflected. 



Length 10, width 11 mill.; aperture, length 8, width 5 mill. 



Hab. — Magdalena Island, Marquesas. 



Obs. — I am indebted to Mr. Andrew Garrett, of Huaheine, for 

 four examples of this shell ; it is about the size of P. decussatula, 

 but more inflated, thinner, with a short, and less acute spire. 

 Like P. Ganymedes and P. inflata, from Marquesas, the basal half 

 of the shell is thicker and more opaque than the superior part. 



Partula bellula, nobis. 



Shell abbreviately ovate, dextral, umbilicate, thin, translucent ; 

 whorls 5, rounded, suture impressed, apex acute, spiral 

 striaa decussated by coarse oblique lines of growth, 

 giving the surface a waved appearance ; aperture per- 

 pendicular, round-ovate, columella wide at the base, lip 

 thin, white, reflected ; color pale straw, with the apex 

 very pale rose. 

 Length 15, width 9 mill.; aperture, length 7, width 4 mill. 

 Hab. — Wapo Island, Marquesas. 



Obs. — Mr. A. Garrett collected one example of this pretty 

 species on Wapo, at an altitude of 2500 feet above sea-level. A 

 similar shell, sent by him to the Museum Godeflroy, was found at 

 Dominique at the same altitude. 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Partula Tryoni, nol>i.<. 



Shell acuminately oblong, dextral, moderate!}' thick, rimate 

 perforate ; whorls 5, rounded, body-whorl equal to the 

 spire, oblique lines of growth coarse, spiral striae 

 almost obsolete; color pale fawn, with white oblong, 

 interrupted, lime-like dots, in oblique rows, in the sub- 

 stance of the shell; aperture perpendicular, ovate, with 

 a nacreous deposit connecting the margins of the peri- 

 treme, lip white, flat, and broadly expanded. 

 Length 21, width 12 mill.; aperture, length 9, width 4 mill. 

 Hub. — Solomon Islands. 



Obs. — For one example of this fine species I am indebted to 

 Mr. Garrett, who received it from our mutual friend, Dr. Cox, of 

 Sydney, Australia. Like P. actor Albers, = zebrina Gould, it 

 possesses the lime-like deposit in the substance of the shell. It 

 is a larger and more oblong shell than the latter, but like it, has 

 a broadly reflected flat lip. 



Partula flexuosa, n 



Shell acuminately oblong, flexuose, dextral, umbilicate, thin 

 and semi-transparent; whorls 5, slightly rounded, spiral 

 striae numerous and very fine ; body-whorl half the 

 length, slightly compressed at base ; color light brown 

 or ash ; aperture oval, slightl}" oblique, lip concave and 

 reflected, with a very thin deposit connecting the mar- 

 gins of the peritreme. 



Length 15 to 20, width 8 to 9 mill. ; aperture, length 

 7 to 8, width 4 mill. 



Hab. — St. George's and Kd<l\ stone Islands, Solomon Islands. 

 Obs. — Several examples of this shell, from Dr. Cox and Mr. 

 Garrett, have been in my possession for a long time, and I hesi- 

 tate to describe them, supposing they might be P. cinerea 

 Albers. Dr. Cox having kindly sent me all Ins collection of 

 Partula, for examination, I found the same shell amongst others 

 from Eddystone and St. George's Islands. Some examples are 

 thin and quite flexuose, while others are stouter and more 

 direct. 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



Partula glaber, nobis. 



Shell acuminately oblong, dextral, somewhat inflated, trans- 

 lucent, rimate-perforate ; spire more than half the 

 length; whorls 6, slightly convex, smooth, oblique lines 

 obscure, spiral strirc absent, except the spiral fovea on 

 the two apical whorls; a white fillet beneath the suture; 

 aperture widely oval, perpendicular, lip slightly reflected, 

 columella expanded at base, of a pale rose color, stain- 

 ing the umbilicus ; color white, aperture a very pale 

 rose, with the apex dark purple. 



Length 21, diam. 10 mill.; aperture, length 10, diam. 5 mill. 

 Hab.— ? 



Obs. — This pretty species was received amongst other shells as 

 P. turricula Pease, New Hebrides (?), without a voucher. A 

 comparison with the description of turricula disproves its iden- 

 tity with that species. It is very distinct from any Partula with 

 which I am acquainted. 



Synonymic Catalogue of the Genus Partula. 



In the year 1881 I published a catalogue of the genus Partula, 

 Ferussac, in which I proposed several sub-genera. These were sub- 

 sequently withdrawn in consequence of not possessing sufficient 

 distinctive characters. In the present list I have arranged the 

 species in groups, designating each by the name of a well-known 

 species, which, in most instances, typifies its general characters 

 and facies. Hybridization is probably a factor in the variability 

 of some species, which may account for the confusion of their 

 synonymy. Owing to similarity of general appearance, it is often 

 difficult to recognize a species by the diagnosis, when unaided 

 by figures. Since the publication of my Bibliographic Catalogue 

 of Partula, in 1881, I have embraced every opportunity to perfect 

 my list, in which I have been aided by a number of friends. To 

 Capt. Jno. Brazier, C. M. Z. S., and Jas. C. Cox, M. D., C. M. 

 Z. S., I am indebted for correct localities of the species from 

 New Hebrides and Solomon Islands, as well as for examples 

 from several habitats on those groups. To the generosity of 

 Mr. Andrew Garrett, of Huaheine, I am indebted for several new 

 species. When in London in 1883, I was unable to inspect the 

 Cumingian Collection, which was boxed preparatory to its 




206 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



removal to the Xew Kensington Museum of Natural History. 

 By the kindness of E. A. Smith, F. Z. S., some of my species 

 have been compared with those in the British Museum, which 

 has partly atoned for this disappointment. I am indebted to the 

 politeness of Dr. Paul Fischer and Dr. A. T. de Rochebrunne, of 

 the Jardin des Plantes, for affording me every facility in the 

 examination of the Partuhe in the Museum. 



All species marked with a dagger (f) are embraced in my 

 collection. 



Genus PARTULA, Fer. 



Auriform Division. 

 I. Faba Group. 



fP. faba Mar'yn (Limax), Univers. Conch., vol. 2, p. 667, figs. 78, 79, 80, vars. 

 Raiatea. 



Limax faba Chenu. Bib. Conch., ii, p. 24, pi. 24, f. 2 a. 



Helix faba Gmel., p. 3625 ; Wood, Index, p. 33, fig. 47. Liim., Dill., 

 Mull. 



Helix substriata Gmel., p. 3437, n. 11. 



Otis faba Humph. 



Auris Afidce fasciata Chemn. Conch., tab. 141, fig. 1041. 



Voluta auris malc7d, var., Gmel., p. 3437. 



Valuta fasciata Dill. Des. Cat., p. 502, Id. Helix faba, p. 906. 



Bulimus Australis Brag. Enc. Meth., i, p. 347. Desh. 



Bulimus inconstans and tricolor Muhlf. Teste Anton, Verz., p. 40. 



Bulimus faba Albers. 



Partulus Australis Beck. Lad. Moll., p. 37. Albers. 



Partulus bulimoides Fer. 



Partulus bulimoides Pfr. Mon. Hel. Viv., 302 (non Lesson). 



Partula Australis FSr. Prod., p. 66, n. 2. 

 \ Partula faba Sowb. Rve., Pfr.,Woodw., Chenu, A. Adms., Pse., Piiet., 



Schm., Ilartm., Garr. 

 \ Partula faba, var. subangulata, Pse. Jour. Conch., 491. Hart., Garr. 

 f Partula ventricosa Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Haitm., Garr. 

 \ Partula amanda Garr. MS. Hartm. 

 \ Partula dubia Garr. MS. Hartm. 

 f Partula ma/rginata Garr. MS. Ilartm. 



Partula bella Pse. MS. Ex. in A. N. S. ex auctore. Raiatea. Non 

 bellaPae. in P. Z. S., p. 473, 1871. Hartm., Garr. 

 | Partula brunnea Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 \ Partula pallida Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 \ Partula biangulatu Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 \ Partula propinqua Pse. MS. Coll. Pse, Ilartm., Garr. 

 ] Partula ventrosa Autli. MS. Coll. Pse., Ilartm. 



Partula maryinata Garr. MS. 




1885.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



f P. citrina P.-c A. J. C, ii. p. 195, 1866. Raiatea. 



P. citrina Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 6, 



pi. 3, fig. 52. Schni., Pfr. 

 P. citrina Pfr. Mon. Ilelic. Viv., p. 302. 

 P.faba, var., Carpt., Hartm. 



Obs. — In common with Pse., Cuming and Pfr., in former 

 catalogues, I regarded this shell as a variety of /aba. Other 

 varieties of / aba are equally constant in ccflor, but less abundant. 

 I defer to the opinion of Mr. Garrett, who is fully convinced of 

 its specific value, having collected it in great quantity. 



f P. vittata Pse. A. J. C, p. 194, 1866. Raiatea. 



P. vittata Garr. Terr. Moll. Soct. Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 75, pi. 3, 

 fig. 56. 



P. vittata Pfr. Hartm. 

 \ P. terresfris Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Piietl., Gloy., Hartm., Garr. 

 f P. castunea Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 \ P. approximata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Schm., Gloy., Hartm., Garr. 



P. faba, var., Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864. 

 \ P. microstoma Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm. (non Garr.). 



P. vittata Pfr. Mon. Helic. Viv., p. 302. 



Obs. — Mr. Garrett very properly unites the three MS. varieties 

 of Mr. Pease, terrestris, castanea and approximata, with vittata 

 of which the}- are modified forms. P. microstoma Pse. MS. 

 Coll. Pse., are large examples of vittata without the pillar tooth. 

 P. microstoma Pse., is certainly not synonymous with P. radiata 

 Pse. MS. 



f P. fusca Pse. A. J. C, p. 193, 1866. Raiatea. 



P.fusea Paetel. W. G. Binn., Pfr., Schm., Hartm. 



P. fusca Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 71, pi. 



3, fig. 50. 

 P. ovalis Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 194, 1866. Pfr., Hartm. (non Garr.). 

 P. dentifera Carpt. = ovalis (non Pfr.). 

 P.faba, var., Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864 = protea. 

 P. protea Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Schm., Pfr, Hartm. (non Garr.). 

 P. navigatoria Carpt. (non Pfr.). 



Obs. — In former catalogues I included all the variable terres- 

 trial species, lugubris,p>rotea, ovalis and fusca, under fusca. The 

 type examples of fusca (Coll. Pse.) are immature shells of the 

 uniform dark fuscous ovalis, two quarts of which were included 

 in the Pease duplicates, labeled P. ovalis by Pease. The shell 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



is solid, of a uniform dark chestnut-brown or fuscous color, with 

 a white expanded lip, and the pillar tooth is absent. I have seen 

 several suites labeled fusca, from the hands of Mr. Pease, in 

 which the banded ovalis and protea predominated. His descrip- 

 tion calls for " an edentate shell, of a wholly dark chestnut color, 

 or with an occasional light band encircling the last whorl, or 

 yellowish striped longitudinally and irregularly with chestnut, 

 and the lip stained with brownish purple." Mr. Garrett's fig. = 

 protea, as it possesses the denticle and peripheral band. There 

 is considerable variation in my suites of this shell, which may 

 eventually result in its being divided into two species. 



t P. Iugubri8 Pse. P. Z. S., \>. 672, 1864. RaiaU a. 



P. lugubris Pfr. Schni., Garr., Hartm. 

 P. oralis Garr. Hartm. (non Pse.). 

 P. fusca Hartm. (non Pse.). 



Obs. — I have followed Mr. Garrett in separating lugubris from 

 fusca. P. lugubris is certainly not Pacifica Pfr. (E. A. Smith). 



t P. Navigatoria Pfr. (Bulimus), Mon., iii, p. 449. Uaiatea. 



P. Navigatoria Rve. Mon. Part., tab. 4, fig 21. 



P. Navigatoria Carpt. Hartm., Garr. 



P. variabilis Pse. A. J. C, ii, p, 203 ; Id., p. 81, pi. 1, f. 13-15, 1806-07. 



/'. variabilis Pfr. Schm., Piietel., Hartm. 



Obs. — A comparison of examples with Pfeiffer's tj'pes in the 

 British Museum, establishes the fact that these species are syn- 

 onymous. As variabilis is found only on the island of Raiatea, 

 and not at the Navigator Islands, the former 'is a misnomer, and 

 the name of Mr. Pease should be retained for the species. 



i P. radiata Pse. MS. Type in A. N. S., ex auotore. Raiatea. 



P. radiata Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol., ix, p. 74, 



fig. 45. 

 P. radiata Hartm. An. < j . 

 P. comprexsa Carpt. i.non Pi'r.). Pse, Schm. 

 /'. microstoma Garr. (non Pse.). 

 P. vittata L> ;ui. mm Pse., Hartm.). 



Obs. — This shell has been disseminated by Pease and the 

 Museum Godeffroyas compressa Pfr., an error which 1 corrected 

 in my Bibliographic Catalogue of the Genus Partula, and which 

 was subsequently noted by Mr. Ancey. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 209 



| P. planilabrum Pse. P. Z. S., p. 672, 1864. Tahaa. 



P. planilabrum Pfr. "W. G. Binn., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. suturalis Pse. MS. (non Pfr.). 



Obs. — The dark variety with white suture is the Pease type of 

 suturalis, MS. P. suturalis Pfr., in the British Museum = alter- 

 nata without bands. 



II. Auriculata Group. 



f P. auriculata Brod. P. Z. S., p. 33, 1832. Raiati ■<. 



Bulimus auriculatus Pfr., 1841. Jay, Cat., p. 204. 



Partulus auriculatus Beck, Index. 



Partula Otaheitana Rve. Mon., pi. 2, fig. 11 a, 11 b. 



Partula Otaheitana Pfr. Mon. Helie. Viv., p. 302. 



Partula robusta Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm. 



Partula solidula Pse. MS. Coll. Pse. 



Partula auriculata Mull. Carpt., Piietel, Schm., Hartm., Garr. 



Obs. — Owing to the variable size and coloration of this species, 

 some of the old authors confounded this shell with Otaheitana 

 Brug., from which it is very distinct. 



t P. bilineata Pse. A. J. C, p. 201 ; Id., p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 10, 1866-67. Tahaa. 



P. bilineata ¥m, G. Binn. Pfr., Gloy., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. auriculata Carpt. (non Brod.). 



f P compacta Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 200: Id., iii, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 9, 1866-67. Raiatea. 



P. compacta Piietel. Schm., Pfr., Hartm., Garr. 



P. auriculata, var., Carpt. 



P. callifera Gloyne (non Pfr.). 



Obs. — Mr. E. A. Smitli writes : " This shell agrees exactly with 

 solidula in the British Museum, except that compacta possesses 

 a denticle." 



f P. thalia Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 69, fig. 46. 

 Raiatea. 



P. abbreviata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse. (non Mouss.). 



P. auriculata, var., Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864. 



P. Peaseiana Garr. MS. (non Peasei Cox). 



P. Thalia Garr. MS. Hartm. 



P. solidula Kiist. See fig. (non Pfr.). 



Obs. — This shell has been distributed as abbreviata Pse. 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



III. Dentifera Group. 

 t P. dentifera Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 85, 1852. Raiatt a. 

 P. dentifera Chemn. T. 44, figs. 14, 15. 

 P. dentifera Pse. Carpt., Schm., ITartm., Garr. 

 P. decorlicata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hart m. 

 P. recta Pse. MS. (Non recta Pse., in A. J. C.) Hartm. 

 P. Raiatensis Garr. MS. Exemp. ex auctore. Hartm., Bib. Cat., 



p. 186. 

 P. laUata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Paetel., Schm., Pfr. 



Obs. — My examples of Raiatensis from Mr. Garrett are much 

 smaller than imperforata Pse., to which he has recently referred 

 it. See Obs. on the Pease duplicates, Bibliographic Catalogue, 

 p. 194. 



f P. callifera Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 333, 1856. Raiatea. 



P. callifera Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 



60, fig. 82. 

 P. callifera Carpt. Pse., Hartm. 

 P. megastoma Pse. MS. Schm. 

 P. callistoma Schm. 



f P. formosa Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm. Raiatea. 



P.formosa Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 



60, pi. 3, fig. 49. 

 P. formosa Hartm. 



f P. imperforata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse, Hartm. Raiatea. 



P. imperforata Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, 



p. 54, pi. 3, fig. 53. 

 P. imperforata Paetel. Pfr., Hartm. 

 P. dentifera Carpt. (non Pfr.). 



P. recta Pse. MS. Coll. Pse. (non recta Pse. in A. J. C). 

 P. auriculata var. Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864. 

 P. Raiatensis Garr. MS. (non Hartm.). 



| P. virginea Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm. Tahaa. 



P. virginea Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 



61, pi. 3, fig. 54. 



P. virginea "W. G. Binn. Schm., Hartm. 



P. solidula, var., Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864. 



t P. lutea Lesson. Voy. Coq., p. .'525, 1856. Bora-bora Islands. 

 Bulimus luteus Desh. Pfr. 

 Partula lutea Pfr. Pse., Hartm. 

 P. solidula Schm. (non Rve.). 

 P. lilacina Pfr. Pse., Hartm. 



Obs. — The type lilacina is an example denuded of epidermis, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



exhibiting the lilac color of the shell beneath. The locality, Mar- 

 quesas, is probably an error. 



f P. Garrettii Pse. P. Z. S., p. 672, 1864, p. 473, 187J. Raiatea. 



P. Garrettii Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 



56, pi. 3, fig. 48. 

 P. Garrettii Ph. Schm., Hartm. 

 P. gonocheila Schm. (non Pfr.). 



IV. Umbilicata Group. 



t P. umbilicata Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 200, 1866; Id., iii, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 7, 1867. 

 Taliaa. 



P. umbilicata Piietel. W. G. Binn., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. auriculata, var., Carpt. 



f P. gibba Fe>. Prodr., p. 66, No. 66. Guam Island. 



P. gibba Rve. Con. Icon., Monog. Part., fig. 15 a, 15 b. 



Helix gibba Quoy. 



Bulimus gibbus Desh. Chemn. 



Partula gibbus Beck. 



Partula mastersi Pfr. Hartm. 



f P. bicolor Pse. P. Z. S., p. 473, 1871. Guam Island. 



P. bicolor Pse. A. J. C, vii, p. 26, pi. 9, f. 4, 1872. 

 P. bicolor Hartm. Bib. Cat., p. 180, 1881. 



t P. crassilabris Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 199 : Id., iii, p. 81, pi. 1, f. 6, 1866-67. Raiatea. 

 P. crassilabris Schm. Pfr., Hartm. 

 P. Otaheitana Rve. (NonBrug.) Baiatea. 

 P. Hebe, var., Carpt. 



P. rustica Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 199 ; Id., p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 5. 

 P. rustica Schm. Pfr. 

 P. auriculata Carpt. (non Brod.). 

 P. crassilabris Gloyne. Hartm. 

 P. pinguis Garr. MS. Hartm. 



Obs. — I do not agree with Pease and others in separating this 

 variable terrestrial form into two species. See Bibliographic Cata- 

 logue Partula, page 187. 



f P. Hebe Pfr. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 39, 1846. Raiatea. 

 Bulimus Hbe Chemn. 



Partula Hebe Pfr. Rve., Pse., Piietel, Schm., Hartm., Garr. 

 Partula globosa Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Gloyne, Schm. 

 Partula ventricosa Garr. MS. Hartm. 

 P.irtula Hebe, var. bella, Pse. P. Z. S., p. 473, 1871. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Y. Expansa Group. 



t P. expansa Pse. A. J. C, p. 26, pi. 9, f. 3, 1871. Tutvila. 



P. externa Pse. P. Z. S., p. 473, 1871 (error for expansa). 

 P. externa Pfr., viii, p. 204. Nom. Helic. Viv., 302. 

 P. externa Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 182. 



Obs. — In Europe this shell is usually mistaken for zebrina Gld. 



f P. Peasei Cox. P. Z. S., p. 644, pi. 52, f. 2, 1871. Malay ta Island, Solomon 



Islands. 



P. PeaseiPfr., vi, 48. Nom. Helic. Viv., 303. 

 P. Peasei Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 185. 



Obs. — I am indebted to Dr. Cox for this extremely rare shell. 

 This group does not approximate in structure any other species 

 except umbilicata; they have been placed here provisionally, the 

 anatomy of the animal ma}*- confer upon them another status. 



VI. Otaheitana Group. 



f P. Otaheitana Brug. (Bulimus). Ency. Meth., i, p. 347, No. 84, 1792. Tahiti. 



Bulimus Otaheitanus Desh. Lam., Kiist., Pfr. 



Bulimus amabilis Pfr. 



Bulimus Isabellinus Pfr. 



Bulimus luccis Gray. 



Bulimus auriculatus Pfr. 



Helix perversa Chemn. 



Helix Otaheitana Dilhv. 



Helix laevis ? Wood. 



Partulus Otaheitanus Beck. Albers. 



Partulus Vanikorensis Beck. 



Partulus auriculatus Beck. 



Partula Otaheitana Fer. Grat., Rve., Jay, Pfr., Piietel, Hartm., 

 Garr. 



Partula Vanikorensis Lam. Pfr., Gld., Piietel, Hartm., Garr. (non P. 

 Vanikorensis Quoy and Gaim. (Helix), 

 f Partula Isabellina Rve. Pfr., Piietel, Hartm., Garr. 

 f Partula amabilis Pfr. Rve., Pse., Piietel, Gloyne, Hartm., Garr. 

 t Partula rubescens Rve. Pfr., Pse.. Hartm., Garr. 

 f Partula Reeveiana Pfr. Cliemn., Hartm., Garr. 



Partula Tahitana Gld. Pse., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 



Partula Taheitenxis Piietel. 



Partula Tahulana Anton. Hartm. 



Partula lignaria Garr. (non Pse., Pfr., Chemn., Hartm.). 



Partula affinis Garr. (non Pse., Plr., Schm., Hartm.). 



Partula rufa Carpt. Hartm. (non Less.). 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



f Partula sinistorse Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Paetel, Schin., Pfr., Gloyne, 

 Hartm., Garr. 



Partula sinistralis Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Paetel, Pfr., Hartm., Garr. 

 t Partula crassa Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 t Partula perversa Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 t Partula turricula Pse. MS. Coll. Pse. (non turricula Pse., in A. J. C, 

 1872), Hartm., Garr. 



Partula varia Carpt. (non Brod.). 



Partula Pacifica Pfr. Hartm. 



Partula diminuta C. B. Adms. Hartm. 



Obs. — From the list of synonyms attached to this variable 

 shell, it would seem that for many years it has been regarded as 

 " a refuge for the destitute.'' 



P Vanikorensis Quoy and Gaim. (Helix). Voy. Astrolabe, ii, p. 115, pi. 9, fig. 12- 

 17, 1830. Yaiiikoro Island. 



Bulimus Vanikorensis Lam., Pfr. 



Partulus Vanikorensis Beck. 



Partula Vanikorensis Pfr. Paetel, Hartm., Garr. 



Obs. — In former catalogues I followed Dr. Gould, who placed 

 this species as a synonym of Otaheitana Brug. After an exami- 

 nation of the types of Quo}- and Gaimard, in the Collection of 

 the Jardin des Plantes, Paris, I cannot but restore the species. 

 The shell is thinner than Otaheitana, of a uniform pale red color, 

 with the apical whorls inflated and rounded. In collections it is 

 usually represented by Otaheitana, affiiiis, and stolida. 



f P. lineata Lesson ( 3ulimus). Voy. Coquille, p. 324, figs. 8-9, 1826. Ounlan Island. 

 Partulus torosus Beck. 

 Partula lineatus Albers. 

 Partula lineata Hartm. Bib. Cat., p. 183. 



Obs. — Lesson's figure is so very different from that of Mr. 

 Reeve, that for the present I am inclined to keep the species 

 separate, notwithstanding Captain Brazier writes, " that he crossed 

 the Island of Oualan twice, without finding it." Mr. Reeve first con- 

 founded it with vexillum Pse. Mr. E. A. Smith writes, " Vexillum 

 Pease is not lineata in the British Museum," and he believes that 

 " Reeve's determination of vexillum —lineata Less., is erroneous." 

 Pease in the Smithsonian Collection says lineata =elongata. The 

 latter is smaller, and wants the single narrow bright red band on 

 the middle of the body-whorl. Lesson's figure is the size and 

 outline of P. producta Pse., and like producta the denticle is 

 absent on the pillar lip, both in his figure and description. 




214 rROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



(" P. Mooreana Ilartm. Proc. A. N. S., p. 229, 1880. Moorea, Mair/nfnas. (iarr., 

 Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 59, fig. 55, tab. iii. 



t P. lignaria Pse. P. Z. S., p. 671, 1864. Tahiti. 



P. lignaria Pfr. Schm., Piietel, Gloyne, Hartm. (non Garr.). 



P. affinis Pse. Pfr., Schm., Hartm. (non Garr.). 



P. nit ens Pfr. Hartm. 



P. rufa Carpt. Hartm. (non Lesson). 



P. Otaheitana, var. fasciata, Fer. Coll. Jardin des Plantes. 



Obs. — I do not assent to lignaria and affinis as synonyms of 

 Otaheitana. See my Bibliographic Catalogue of Partula, pages 

 119 and 183. I possess numerous examples of all the varieties 

 of this species ; several are albinos, some are white with a brown 

 band, var. fasciata Fe'r., others are dark brown with darker 

 oblique striae and a dark band at the periphery, var. lignaria. 

 The variety affinis is always of a dark bay-brown, usually with 

 darker oblique striae and a smooth surface. All possess a 

 button-like pillar tooth, and the base of the aperture has a looped 

 appearance, which is a constant character of this shell. Some of 

 the smaller examples of Otaheitana resemble it (probably the 

 result of hybridization), but they may always be distinguished 

 by the red color of the shell and lip. In most collections this 

 shell is labeled rufa. 



f P. stolida Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 198, 1868. Tahiti. 



P. stolida Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 70, 



pi. 3, fig. 58. 

 P. stolida Pfr. Hartm. 

 P. Vanikorensis Carpt. P. Z. S., p. 675, 1864 (non Quoy and Gaim.). 



f P. filosa Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 262, 1851. Tahiti. 

 P. filosa Chemn. Hartm. 



P. filosa Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 64. 

 P. lineolata Pse. A. J. C, p. 224, 1867. Schm., Pfr. 



f P. nodosa Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 262, 1851. Tahiti. 



P. trilineata Pse. A. J. C, iii, t. 1, f. 10, Pfr. 



P. nodoxa Hartm. 



P. nodosa, var. trilineata, Pse. 



| P. producta Pse. P. Z. S., p. 671, 1864. Raiatea. 



P. producta Garr. Terr. Moll. Soct. Isls., J. A. N. B., vol. ix, p. 66, 



pi. 3, fig. 51. 

 P. producta Pfr. Schm., Hartm. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 215 



t P. suturalis Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 98, 1865. Moorea. 



P. suturalis Pfr. Nov. Conch., vol. i, tab. 17, figs. 18-19. 



P. stenostoma, Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 97, 1855. Hartm. 



P. stenostoma. Nov. Conch., vol. i, tab. 17, figs. 1G— 17. 



P. strigosa Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 384, 1850. Hartm. 



P. vexillum Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 198 ; Id., iii, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 8, 18GG-G7. 



Hartm. 

 P. alternata Pse. MS. Coll. Pse., Hartm. 

 P. nodosa Carpt. (non Pfr.). 

 P. lineata Rve. Garr. (non Lesson). 



Obs. — I agree with Mr. Garrett in combining all these variable 

 shells from Moorea under one species, but I doubt if they = 

 lineata Lesson. Suturalis and strigosa, in the Cumingian Collec- 

 tion, are only varieties of the Moorea shell; stenostoma and 

 suturalis were described by Pfeiffer from examples in the British 

 Museum, which are only varieties of alternata and vexillum 

 Pease. 



VII. Tseniata Group. 



f P. taeniata Mb'rch (Bulimus). Cat. Conch. Kierulf., p. 29, pi. 1, fig; 5, 1840. 

 Moorea. 

 P. tceniata Pfr., iii, p. 451. Carpt., Hartm. 

 P. spadicea Chenu, t. 64, fig. 31-32. Pfr., Rve., Hartm. 

 P. striolata Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 197, 1866 ; iii, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 4, 1867. 



Pfr., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. simulans Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 202, 1866, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 11. Pfr., 



Hartm., Garr. 

 P. elongata Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 196, 1866 ; iii, p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 2, 1867. 



Pfr., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. Erhelii Morelet. J. Conchyl., t. 2, f. 7, 1853. Moorea. Pfr., 



Hartm. 

 P. nucleola Pse. MS. Coll., Pse., Hartm., Garr. 

 P. peraffinis Pse. MS. Pfr. 



Obs. — Mr. Garrett very properly remarks, " this is truly a 

 protean species." Of this fact I have been cognizant since I 

 examined the duplicate collection of the late Mr. Pease. In six 

 pints of duplicates from Moorea the connection between the 

 varieties was readily traceable ; on comparison " there is no 

 difference between examples of these shells and those of spadicea 

 in the British Museum, except that some are a trifle shorter." 

 Morch's habitat, Fiji Isles, for taeniata, is probably an error, as 

 his examples " were purchased of a whale fisher." Pfeiffer, in 

 the last edition of his Catalogue of- Partula, says peraffinis Pse. 

 MS. = elongata Pse. 




21G PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



t P. clara Pse. P. Z. S., p. 671, 1864. Tahiti. 

 P. clara Pfr. Hartm. 

 P. clara Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 56, pi. 



iii, fig. 75. 

 P. hyalina var.? Carpt. Pfr., Norn. Hel. Viv., p. 301. 



P. micans Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 138, 1852. Solomon Islands. 

 P. micans Chenin. Tab. 66, figs. 12, 13. 

 P. micans Pfr. Nona. Helic. Viv., p, 303 (non Hartm.). 



f P. Carteriensis Quoy and Gaim. (Helix). Voy. Astrol., ii, p. 117, pi. 9, fig. 10. 

 Carteret Island, N. Ireland. 



Bulimus Carteriensis Pfr., ii, 68. Desh. 



Partulus Carteriensis Beck. 



Partula Carteretensis Rve. 



Partula Carteriensis Hartm. Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



f P. hyalina Brod. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 32, 1832. Tahiti, Maguaia hid., Garr., 

 Rurutu, Le Gage ; Tumaco Cuming. 



P. hyalina Pse., ii, p. 67. Chemn., t. 64, f. 19, 20. 



Bulimus hyalinus Desh. 



Partulus hyalinus Beck. 



Partula hyalina Rve. Hartm.; Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



Obs. — This is the most widely distributed of any known spe- 

 cies of Partula. 



t P. attenuata Pse. P. Z. S., p. 672, 1864. Ilaiatea, Tahiti. 



P. attenuata Pfr., iv, 507. Schni., Gloyne, Hartm., Garr. 



P. gracilis Pse. A. J. C, p. 197, 1867 ; Id., p. 81, pi. 1, fig. 3. 



P. gracilis W. G. Binn. Pse., Paetel, Hartm., Garr. 



P. gracilior Pse. MS. Hartm., Ex. in A. N. S., ex auctore. Isabel 



Island. 

 P. Carteretensis Garr. (non Rve.). 



Obs. — Mr. Garrett makes Carteretensis Rve. synonymous with 

 this shell, to which I do not assent. 



P. Hartmani E. A. Smith. P. Z. S., 1884. Wild and Pigeon Islands. 

 P. cinerea Albers. Mai. Blatt., p. 98, 1857. Solomon Islands. 



P. cinerea Pfr., iv, 510. Hartm. 



P. cinerea Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



■f P. lyrata Mousson. Jour. Conehyl., xviii, p. 126, 1870. Tavinu, Viti Isles. 



P. lyrata Hynein., in Mai. Blatt., xiv, t. 1, fig. 1 (Dentes). Somma 



Island, Feejee Islds. 

 P. lyrata Ph., iv, 158; Haitm.; Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



| P. flexuosa Bartm. P. A. N. S., 1885. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



f P. laevigata Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 334, 1856. 



P. laevigata Pfr., iv, Hartm.; Pfr., Nona. Helic. Viv., 302. 

 P. grisea Lesson (Bulimus). Voy. Coquill., xiii, p. 325, pi. 13, f. 11, 1829. New 

 (iitinea. 



Bulimus griseus Pfr. 

 Partulus griseus Alb. 

 Par tula grisea Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. Hartm. 



f P. concinna Pse. A. J. C, vii, p. 196, 1872. Tanna Island, New Hebrides. 



P. concinna Pfr., viii, 205 ; Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. Hartm. 

 f P. pellucida Pse. P. Z. S., p. 457, 1871. Guadelcanar Itland, Solomon [elands. 



P. pellucida Pfr., viii, 199 ; Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



P. micaiis Hartm. 



Obs. — This shell was collected by Mr. John Brazier and pre- 

 sented to Mr. Pease. Heretofore I confounded this shell with 

 Coxi Angas MS., and micans Pfr., it is smaller than either of 

 the former and very thin and pellucid. It is the smallest Partula 

 known. 



f P. Coxi Angas MS. Cox, Cat. Land and Mar. Shells, Austr. and adjacent Islands, 

 p. 46, 1868. Isabel Isld., Solomon Isles. 



P. Coxi Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 181, 1881. „ 



Obs. — Through the kindness of Captain Brazier, of Sydney, 

 Australia, I have been presented with a number of examples 

 from the original lot collected by himself. It is rather larger 

 than pellucida Pse., more elongated ; the aperture is also larger 

 and more elongate, and the lip more expanded. The length of 

 pellucida is 10 mill., while that of Coxi is 15 mill. 



VIII. Decussatula Group. 



t P. decussatula Pfr. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 131, 1850. Dominique Island, 

 Marquesas. 



P. decussatula Rve. Mon. Part., Spec. 24, pi. 4, fig. 23, 1849. 

 P. decussatula Chemn., t. 65, figs. 8, 9. Hartm. 

 P. decussatula Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. 



t P. Magdalinae Hartm. P. A. N. S., 1885. Magdalena Isld., Marquesas. 



f P. bellula Hartm. P. A. N. S., 1885. Wapo Isld. and Dominique, Marquesas. 



IX. Turgida Group. 



t P. turgida Pse. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p 670, 1864 Baiatea. 

 P. turgida Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 188. 



P. turgida Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 56, 

 pi. 3, fig. 74. 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



i P. annectens Pse. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 671, 1864. Huaheine. 



P. annectens Pfr., vi, p. 48 ; Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. Hartm. 

 P. tinnecteits Garr. Terr. Moll. Society Isls., J. A. N. S., vol. ix, p. 

 66, pi. 3, fig. 70. 

 I P. arguta Pse. ( Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 670, 1864. Hu«h, ine. 



P. arguta Pfr., vi, 46 ; Hartm.; Garr., Terr. Moll. Society Isls., vol. ix, 



p. G'2, pi. 3, fig. 57. 

 P. arguta Schm., Martn. and Langk. 



P. minuta Pfr. P. Z. S., p 381, 18:6. Admiralty Minds. 

 P. minuta Pfr., iv, p. 514. Hartm. 

 P. minuta Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. 



X. Rosea Group. 



t P. rosea Prod. (Bulimus). P. Z. S , p. 125, 1832. Enah in. . 



P. rosea Mull. Rve., Jay, Pfr., Pse., Piietl., Schm., Hartm., Garr. 



P. rosea Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 301. 



P. purpurascens Pfr., iv, p. 511. Hartm. 



P. simplaria Morelet. Jour. Conchyl., iv, p. 370, pi. 11, figs. 13-14, 



1*53. 

 P. cognata Pse. Coll. Pse., Schm., Gloyne, Hartm., Garr. 



f P. calypso 0. Semper. Jour. Conchyl., xiii, t. 12, fig. 7. Island /'. lelin. 

 P. calypso Pfr., vi, 185 ; Hartm. ; Pfr., Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 300. 

 P. thetis O. Semp. Jour. Conchyl,, xiii, t. 12, fig. 6. 

 P. thetis Pfr., vi, 155 ; Hartm. ; Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 300. 

 P. leucotha'e O. Semp. Jour. Conchyl., xiii, t. 12, f. 5. 

 P. leucothai ? Pfr., vi, .155 ; Hartm. ; Pfr., Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 300. 



Obs. — These shells are all from one island. " The figures are 

 all of one type, differing only in size and coloration." 1 

 f P. varia Brod. P. Z. S.. p. 125, 1832. Huafo in. . 



P. varia Mull. Rve., Pfr., Pse., Piietel, Schm., Hartm., Garr. 



Btdimus varius, Pfr. 



Bulimus roseus, var., Pfr. 



P. varia Pfr. Nom. Hel. Viv., p. 301. 



P. glutinoso Pfr. Piietel, Hartm., Garr. 



P. mncida Pfr. Hartm., Garr. 



P. pulchra Pse., MS. Mus. Godeff. Cat., v, p. 92. 



P. Huaheinensis Garr., MS. Hartm., Garr. 



P. bicolor Garr., MS. Hartm., Garr. 



P. adusta Garr. Hartm., Garr. 



P. perplexa Pse. Coll. Pse., Hartm., Garr. 



Obs. — Mr. Garrett's residence at Huaheine for some years has 



Hartm., in Bib. Cat. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PIHLADELPHIA. 219 



afforded him excellent opportunities of observing this species, 

 and he records very full particulars of its varieties and distribu- 

 tion. I have been in accord with him for a long time in assign- 

 ing glutinosa Pfr. to varia. I think Pfeiffer at one time claimed 

 Reeve's fig. 17 &, pi. 3, Monog. Part., as his glutinosa. This fig. 

 represents the shell in Coll. A. N. S. labeled P. strigosa Pse. 

 ex auctore. The latter, however, is a Marquesas shell, which I 

 have recently discovered to = a dark variety of recta Pse. 

 See recta Pease. 



t P. assimilis Pse. A. J. C, p. 230, pi. 15, f. 28, 29, 1867. Earotongn Inland. 

 P. assimilis Pfr., viii, 197 ; Pfr., Norn. Helic. Viv., p. 301 ; Hartm. 

 P. Cookiana Mouss. MS., p. 28, figs. 28, 29 ; Garr. in litt. 

 P. Cookiana Mouss. Paetel. 



t P. virgulata Pse. Jour. Conchyl., 3d series, p. 401, 1876. Rarotonga. 

 P. virgulata Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 189, 1881. 



f P. subgonocheila Mousson. Jour. Conchy., xix, t. 3, fig. 4. Fortuna and Bauao 



hiamh. 



P. subgonocheila Pfr., viii, p. 203, Nom. Helic. Viv., 302 ; Hartm. 

 XI. Ganymedes Group. 



t P. ganymedes Pfr. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 39, 1850. Dominique hid., Marquesas. 

 P. ganymedes Rve. Mon. Part., No. 16, pi. 3, fig. 16. 

 P. ganymedes Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. Hartm. 

 P.fasciata Pse. A. J. C, ii, p. 202, 1866, var. Hartm. 

 P. gonocheila Hartm. (non Pfr.). 



t P. inflata Rve. (Bulimus) P. Z. S., p. 197, 1842. 



P. inflata Rve. Conch. Syst., pi. 175, fig. 11, 12. 



P. inflata Rve. Mon. Part., No. 3, figs. 3 a, 3 b, 1849. 



Bulimus thersites Pfr. 



Bulimus thersites Chemn., t. 64, figs. 5, 6. 



Partulus thersites Albers. 



Partula inflata Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. Hartm. 



P. gonocheila Pfr. (Bulimus). Zeit. fur Malaool., p. 82, 1847. Navigator Islands. 

 P. gonocheila Pfr., ii, 69. 

 P. gonocheila Rve. Mon. Part., t. 4, fig. 19. 

 P. gonocheila Chem., t. 64, figs. 33, 34. 

 P. ganymedes Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 182. 

 P. gonocheila Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. 



Obs. — There seems to be some confusion about this species ; 

 the examples of gonocheila in the British Museum do not agree 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



with the figure of gonocheila Reeve, which latter = ganymedes 

 in nrv collection. This, however, may be explained by Cuming's 

 habit of substituting what he considered better examples for 

 those already in the Museum collection. Reeve's habitat is 

 Navigator Islands. I have restored the species with the expec- 

 tation that his gonocheila may yet be found at the Navigator 

 Islands. The present examples in the British Museum look to 

 me like some varieties of recta Pease. 



f P. recta Pse. A. J. C, iv, p. 155, pi. 12, f. 8, 1868. Mountains of M«nni and 

 Nukuhiwa Ixlds., Marquesas. 



P. recta Pfr., viii, 202. Nom. Helic Viv., p. 302. 



P. strigata Pse. A. J. C, iv, p. 155, pi. 12, f. 7, 1868. Marquesas. 



P. repanda Hartm. (non Pfr.). 



Obs. — This is a very variable shell in size, shape, color and tex- 

 ture. See recta Pse., Bib. Cat. Part., p. 186. P. strigata Pease = 

 the dark brown variety of recta. There were about one-and-a-half 

 pints of examples of this species amongst the duplicates of the 

 collection of the late Wm. H. Pease ; four varieties were seem- 

 ingly embraced in the lot ; the larger number were of the white 

 variety, some of which resemble repanda Pfr. On a comparison 

 with repanda in the British Museum they proved to be distinct. 

 These shells vary from white through different shades of yellow 

 and reddish to dark reddish brown. The inner margin of the 

 aperture is more or less waved and the columella more or less 

 nodose, the lip usually partaking of the color of the shell. 



P. repanda 1'fr., iv, 512. New Hebrides. 

 P. recta Hartm. (non Pse. ). 

 P. repanda Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. 



t P. actor Alliers (Partulus). Helicien, p. 87, 1850. Samoa Tsldt. 

 P. actor Pfr., iii, p. 450. 

 P. actor Chemn., t. 48, figs. 13, 14. 

 P. actor Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. 



P. Recluziana Petit. Jour. Oonchyl., t. 7, f. 5, 1850. Tntuila. 

 P. Recluziana Pfr., iii. p. 45 J. 

 P. Recluziana Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. 

 P. zebrina Gld. Exped. Shells, t. 6, f . 89. Tntuila and Samoa. 

 P. zebrina Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 303. 

 P. zebrina Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 189. 



Obs. — I have several examples of this shell from the collection 

 of the late Mr. Taylor, England. They were obtained by the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



Belcher Expedition (Voyage Samarang). Similar examples are 

 contained in the collections of Gould, Cox and others, from Upolu, 

 Tutuila and Samoa. In Europe P. expansa Pse., from Tutuila, is 

 the shell often mistaken for zebrina. 



t P. Tryoni Hartm. P. A. N. S., 1885. Solomo,, Islands. 



Buliminoid Division. 

 XII. Guamensis Group. 



f P. Guamensis Pfr. (Bulimus). Phil , Abbild. und Beschreib. Conch., ii, p. 173, 

 pi. 4, f. 9, 1821. Ponape, Caroline Islands. 



P. Guamensis Pfr., ii, p. 73. 



P. Guamensis Rve. Mon. Part., t. 1, f. 4. 



P. brumalis Rve. Mon. Part., t. 1, f. 2. 



Partula Guamensis Pfr. Norn. Helic, 302. Hartm. 



Obs — P. Guamensis Pfr., is not found at Guam, one of the La- 

 drone Islands, and hence is a misnomer, which might be changed 

 to Ponapensis, one of the Caroline Islands, at which it occurs. 

 The Cox collection contained examples labeled Ascension Island. 



P. obesa Pse. A. J. C, iii, p. 223, t. 15, f. 12, 1867. Fortuna and Vavao Islands. 

 P. obesa~Pfr., viii, 201. 

 P. obesa Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. 

 P. obesa Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 184. 



Obs. — This species is very scarce as no one has collected in 

 those islands since Dr. Graff visited them. 



P. abbreviata Mousson Jour. Conchyl., xvii, p. 339, pi. 15, f. 7, 1869. Tutuila. 

 P. abbreviata Pfr., viii, p. 200. 

 P. abbreviata Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 179 (non abbreviata Pse. MS. ). 



f P. rufa Lesson (Bulimus). Voy. Coquille, tome 2, pt. 1, p. 324, 1S30. 0><alan, 

 Caroline Islands. 



P. rufa Pfr., ii, 229 ; Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 302. 



Partnlus rufus Beck. 



Partula rufa Less, (non Carpt., Hartm.). 



Obs. — This shell, of which Dr. Cox and Capt. Brazier have given 

 me examples, has been re-discovered on the Island of Oualan by 

 Capt. Brazier. It is a much larger shell than stolida or ajfinis, 

 with which it is usually confounded. 




222 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



t P. conica Gld. Proc. Bost. S. N. Hist., p. 196, 1841. Raraka and Samoa Islands. 

 P. conica Gld. Exped. Shells, fig. 88. 

 P. conica Pfr., iii, 445, iv, 507. 

 P. conica Pfr. Novit. Conch., i, tab. 34, f. 8, 9. 

 P. conica Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., p. 300. 

 P. Upolensis Mouss. MS. Paetel., p. 104. Upolu. 

 P. canalis Mouss. Jour. Conchyl., xiii, p. 132, 1800. Upolu, Tulare. 

 P. canalis Pfr. Nona. Ilelic. Viv., p. 300. 

 P. bulimoides Hartm. Bib. Cat. part, p. 180 (non Less.). 



Obs. — I possess these shells from the Islands of Tutuila, Upolu 

 and Samoa. Like actor Albers, it is a denizen of several islands of 

 this group. Dr. Gould, in his description of this species, embraces 

 the dextral and sinistral forms of the yellow and brown varieties. 

 Others profess to see a difference, which has resulted in a needless 

 synonymy. 



P. bulimoides Lesson. Voy. Coq., p. 326, 1829. New Guinea, 

 P.faba ? var., Pfr. Norn. Helic. Viv. p. 302. 

 P. bulimoides Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 180. 



Obs. — Although Lesson's brief diagnosis of bulimoides approxi- 

 mates nearer to some varieties of conica than to any known 

 species, his measurements of the shell and the locality induce me 

 to restore the species. 



XIII. Macgillivrayi Group. 

 f P. Macgillivrayi Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 325, 185(5. .V. w IT, brides. 



P. Macgillivrayi Pfr., iv, 508 ; Nov. Conch., i, t. 17, f. 14, 15. 

 P, Macgillivrayi Pfr. Nona. Helic. Viv., p. 301 ; Hartm., Bib. Cat., 

 Part., 184. 

 jP. TurneriVtr. P. Z. S., p. 140, 1860 vi, 159'; Norn. Helic, Viv., 

 302. Erromango Island. 

 P. Margillivarayi Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 188. 



Obs. — I have a number of examples of this shell, which is 

 somewhat variable. I am indebted to Capt. Brazier for speci- 

 mens from Vati, Sandwich Island, New Hebrides. 



f P. Caledonica Pfr. ( Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 387, 1861, V«vn«. Tavu, Hayiks Island, 

 N. Hi brides. 



\P. Pfeifferi Crosse. Jour. Conchyl., xix, p. 184, 1871. Vavua, Tavu. 



P. Pfeifferi Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., 301. 

 + P. Brazieri Pse. A. J. C, vii, p. 27, pi. 9, f. 5, 1872. Tutuila. 



P. Macgillivrayi Pfr., viii, 194 ; Nom. Helic. Viv., 300. 



P. Macgillivrayi Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 180. 



Obs. — Capt. Brazier writes that he only obtained one example 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 223 



of this shell at Tutuila, which was given to Mr. Pease, and never 

 returned. The example in the Coll. A. N. S., labeled " P. Brazieri 

 Pease ex auctore " is of the New Hebrides type and agrees with 

 my example of Turneri. 



P. turricula Pse. A. J. C, p. 190, 1*72. N< » Hebrides? 

 P. turricula Pfr., viii, 197 ; Nom. Helic. Viv., 301. 

 P. turricula Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., p. 188. 



f P. glaber Hartm. P. A. N. S., 1885. Hah. .' 



f P. compressa Pfr. {BuHmui), iii, 447. Fiji Islands. 



P. compressa Rve. Mon. Part., t. 4, f. 20. 



P. compressa Pfr. Nom. Helic. Viv., 301. 



P. compressa Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 181. 



f P. alabastrina Pfr. (Bulimus). P. Z. S., p. 39, 1856. Fiji Mauds. 

 P. alabastrina Pfr., iv, 509 ; Norn. Helic. Viv., 301. 

 P. alabastrina Hartm. Bib. Cat. Part., 179. 



f P. radiolata Pfr. P. Z. S., p. 39, 1846. Guam Inland. 



P. radiolata Pfr., ii, 69 ; Nom. Helic. Viv., 301. Hartm. 

 P. radiolata Chemn., t. 64, f. 17, 18. 

 Partulus radiolatus Albers. 



f P. Layardii Brazier. Mand of Salisboe. 



Obs. — Unlike other Partulae this species is devoid of emb^onic 

 fovea or spiral striae. The former are minute longitudinal 

 wrinkles, which are continued over the coarse longitudinal striae 

 of the surface. The aperture is of a reddish orange color, with 

 a large mammilliform tooth on the pillar lip, and a wide columella 

 above, together with an open umbilicus. The general facies is 

 that of a Placostylus, which induced Mr. C. F. Ancey to create 

 the subgenus Diplomorpha for the species. Mr. Layard having 

 sent me several of the animals in alcohol, they were referred to 

 Mr. Wm. G. Binne} r , and, notwithstanding the external differences, 

 " he finds the jaw, lingual dentition and genitalia like other 

 Partulae." 




224 proceedings of the academy of [1885. 



July 14. 

 Mr. Geo. Y. Shoemaker in the chair. 

 Thirteen persons present. 



On large Crystals of Stibnite. — Dr. A. E. Foote exhibited a 

 specimen of stibnite which was shown by the Commissioners of 

 the Japanese Empire at the World's Exposition, New Orleans, 

 and pronounced by them to be the finest ever found. It is a 

 large fan-like group, twenty-two inches high by nine inches wide. 

 The crystals vary in diameter from one to two inches. The 

 largest is perfectly terminated. The Japanese locality, which 

 h:is hitherto been incorrectly given, is Iyo. On account of their 

 remarkable brilliancy, extraordinary size, and great number of 

 crystalline planes, it is the most remarkable metallic mineral 

 ever found. The known planes of stibnite are now eighty-five, 

 of which forty, described by E. S. Dana from this locality, 

 are new. 



July 21. 

 Dr. A. E. Foote in the chair. 

 Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled " Revision of the Pakeocrinoidea, Part III," 

 by Charles Wachsmuth and Frank Springer, was presented for 

 publication. 



July 28. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



The death of Gen. U. S. Grant, a member, was announced. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




PROC. ACAD NAT SEC PHILA 



pl n 



IifliWemw i.WmieT,Fianhfo:t e 'M 



CERVALCES AMERICANUS. 





PROC. ACAD. NAT. SCI. PHILAD'A, 1885 



MAP OF 



MARGINAL KAMES 



in Eastern Pennsylvania, 



H. CARVILL LEWIS. 



The Terminal Moraine and Karnes are marked in red. 





1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 225 



REVISION OF THE PAL.EOCRINOIDEA. 

 BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND PRANK SPRINGER. 



Part III. 



DISCUSSION OF THE CLASSIFICATION AND RELATIONS OF 



THE BRACHIATE CRINOIDS, AND CONCLUSION 



OF THE GENERIC DESCRIPTIONS. 



Introductory Remarks. 



During the five years that have elapsed since the publication 

 of the first part of this work, great progress has been made in 

 the study of the Crinoids, both recent and fossil, and many new 

 and interesting forms have been discovered and described. 



A number of publications have appeared, "which must be 

 regarded as among the most important contributions that have 

 ever been made to the literature of the subject. During the 

 course of our studies for the present paper, we have had the 

 benefit of these discussions and researches, in many instances 

 through the personal kindness of our scientific friends. We have 

 been especially favored in this respect by receiving from Dr. P. 

 Herbert Carpenter many of the proof-sheets of plates and text, 

 in advance of publication, of his magnificent work on the Crinoids 

 of the Challenger collections. This has been of the utmost value 

 to us, and we feel that we cannot be too grateful to the distin- 

 guished author for his courteous attention. 



We may be pardoned for alluding to the satisfaction we have 

 felt at the kind reception our work has met, at the hands of our 

 co-laborers both in this country and in Europe. That our views 

 would encounter criticism, was expected, and indeed desired by 

 us. The criticisms have for the most part been made in a true 

 scientific spirit, with a view to elucidating the truth. They have 

 in many cases been of value to us, and have enabled us to review 

 the questions raised in a new light. As a matter of course errors 

 on our part have been discovered and pointed out. 



In the meantime we ourselves have learned a great deal more 

 about Crinoids than we knew at the time we wrote our first part, 

 independently of the discussions and criticisms above referred 

 to. We have now a far more complete collection of the literature 



16 




226 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



than existed in the United States at that time. Our materials 

 for study in the way of specimens have also been greatly aug- 

 mented, and for many of the advantages we possess in this 

 respect we are under extraordinary obligations to the naturalists 

 and collectors of the United States and Canada. Many of these 

 gentlemen, with rare liberality, have placed their collections at 

 our disposal, and forwarded to us, at the risk of loss in transit, 

 unique, valuable and original specimens. We desire to express 

 our grateful thanks for favors of this kind to Prof. Whiteaves, 

 Director of the Canada Survey ; Prof. Whitfield, of the American 

 Museum, New York ; Dr. C. A. White, of the Smithsonian Insti- 

 tution ; Prof. Worthen, Director of the Illinois State Survey ; Mr. 

 Walter R. Billings, of Ottawa ; Mr. S. A. Miller and Prof. Wetherby, 

 of Cincinnati ; Mr. I. H. Harris, of Waynesville, 0.; Mr. William 

 Gurley, of Danville, 111.; Mr. R. R. Rowley, of Curryville, Mo.; 

 Mr. James Love, of Burlington, Iowa, and others. We are also 

 under great obligations to our friend, Orestes St. John, who 

 executed the drawings which illustrate this paper. We consider 

 ourselves peculiarly fortunate in enlisting the co-operation, for this 

 purpose, of one who is both a trained and able naturalist and a 

 skilful artist. 



As a result of our recent researches, we have naturally been led 

 to entertain new ideas, and in some cases to a modification of 

 views at first entertained. 



In the present paper, which appears as Part III of the Revi- 

 sion, we give a description of the genera that have not been 

 considered in Parts I and II, and shall also state the results ot 

 our further studies in their bearing upon the genera heretofore 

 discussed. 



In the beginning of this work we recognized two great divisions 

 among Crinoids, viz. : Palaeocrinoidea and Stomatocrinoidea, for 

 the latter of which we afterwards adopted Carpenter's preferable 

 name Neocrinoidea. We divided the Paleeocrinoidea into three 

 great families, based upon as many distinct plans of structure. 

 We did not at first undertake to identify the different subgroups 

 into which these might be divided, except provisionally in some 

 instances, although we recognized the propriety of such subdi- 

 vision. Prof. Zittel had established twenty-two families of 

 Crinoids, and while his classification has great merit, and is in 

 many essential particulars in accordance with our own views, it 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 22? 



was defective in not recognizing the more comprehensive relations 

 which exist among these animals. His groups failed to express 

 the distinctions in plan of structure, which we have pointed out. 

 While we are satisfied that the necessities of classification 

 require the recognition of a large number of family groups, which 

 we have not hitherto sought to define, we are more than ever 

 convinced that the three great groups which we originally estab- 

 lished, are the only really reliable ones, for the reason that they 

 are founded upon well-defined plans of structure. 



The Plates of the Abactinal System. 



Dr. P. Herb. Carpenter in his Challenger Report, p. 1, describes 

 " the organization of a Crinoid to be broadly divisible into two 

 well-marked portions," to which he applies the general names 

 "ambulacral and antiambulacral." The ambulacral portion is 

 " the visceral mass or disk in which is situated the whole of the 

 digestive tube with both its terminal openings, and it contains the 

 central ends of the radial water-vessels and blood-vessels." The 

 antiambulacral portion " consists of the stem and its appendages, 

 the calyx, and the skeleton of the rays, arms and pinnules." The 

 two portions, he states, correspond on the whole to the actinal 

 and abactinal systems of Echinoderms generally, and were de- 

 veloped, respectively, around the left and right water-tube, or 

 what are generally called the left and right larval antimers. 

 The whole of the calyx and the arm skeleton are formed on the 

 right antimer ; the disk and the extensions of the peristome, and 

 the perisomic plates clothing its ventral surface, on the left 

 antimer. 



In all recent Crinoids, and so far as known, in all Neocrinoids, 

 the calyx is restricted to the dorsal side of the Crinoid, and all 

 structures along the ventral side form a part of the disk or its 

 extensions. The calyx consists of few plates, as a general rule 

 only of basals and radials. Comparatively few genera have under- 

 basals. Interradials have been described only in Guettardicrinus, 

 in a few species of Apiocrinus, in Uintacrinus, and in the remark- 

 able recent genus Thaumatocrinus which exceptionally also has 

 anal plates. None of these plates, however, extend beyond the 

 limits of the dorsal cup. 



In the Palseocrinoidea the structure of the calyx is much more 

 complex. Underbasals are represented in nearly one-half of the 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



known genera, and all have interradials, by means of which fre- 

 quently a large series of arm plates are incorporated into the 

 calyx, and thereby elevated to the rank of radials. The term 

 "calyx," although applied sometimes in a general way to the 

 whole skeleton exclusively of arms and column, has been of late 

 restricted to the dorsal cup, and all structures upon the ventral 

 surface were called variously vault, dome or disk. It has been 

 the general opinion that all plates located ventrally, in analogy 

 with the Neocrinoidea, either were perisomic, or at least formed a 

 part of the actinal system. This is the view expressed by Car- 

 penter in the Challenger Report, and we must acknowledge it 

 was our own until quite recently. We now hold that a large part 

 of the ventral surface, throughout the Palaeocrinoidea, was covered 

 by abactinal plates, and that the calyx extended to the summit 

 pieces, the so-called " apical dome plates." In this sense the 

 term " calyx " will be used by us in this part of the Revision, 

 while the plates beneath the free arms comprise the " dorsal cup." 

 We further use the term " ventral disk " exclusively to denote the 

 upper surface of the visceral mass, in which the mouth is situated, 

 and from which the food grooves radiate outward. The " disk " 

 is clothed by the " perisome," which may be exposed to view or 

 subtegminal, simply membranous or studded with plates ; if sub- 

 tegminal, it is covered by the " vault," which may be rigid or 

 pliable. 



The name " Camarata " is proposed for all Palaeocrinoidea in 

 which the lower arm plates are incorporated into the calyx by 

 interradial plates, and in which all component- parts of the test, 

 dorsally and ventrally, are solidly connected by suture. 



Under the name " Articulata " we include those families in 

 which the plates of the test are united by loose ligaments or 

 muscles, and in which they are somewhat movable. 



The name u Inadunata" is proposed for all Palaeocrinoidea in 

 which the arms are free above the first radials and which have 

 five single interradials, located ventrally. 



These groups will be better defined at the proper place. 



A. The Basals and Underbasals. 



The basals are represented in the Palaeocrinoidea by one or two 

 rino-s of plates. The basals proper constitute the first ring beneath 

 the radials ; the second or proximal ring contains the underbasals. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 229 



There is, however, one exception to this rule, presented by the 

 remarkable genus Acrocrinus (PL 6, fig. 1), in which the basals 

 and radials ai'e separated by from four to fifteen rings of small 

 pieces, their number varying in species, and increasing in the 

 growing Crinoid. 



The plates of the basal ring are laterally connected except in 

 the two genera Zeacrinus and Calpiocrinus. In the former they 

 are small, trigonal, acuminate pieces, which externally, and also 

 at the inner floor of the calyx, are separated by the radials, which 

 with their truncated lower angle meet the underbasals. In Cal- 

 piocrinus four of the basals seem to be totally absent externally, 

 and only the posterior one is represented by a small quadrangular 

 piece. The underbasals differ considerably in size, and are fre- 

 quently covered entirely b} r the column. In such cases it is often 

 exceedingly difficult to distinguish them from the upper stem 

 joint. Several species have been described with underbasals 

 which do not possess them, and Heterocrinus and Glyptocrinus 

 were thought to contain species with underbasals and without 

 them. 



Considering the importance that has been given to the presence 

 of underbasals in classification, and the difficulty of identifying 

 them in some groups, it is of some importance, that we have 

 discovered a method, by which, in most cases, the presence or 

 absence of underbasals can be ascertained accurately from the 

 column, the position this occupies toward the general symmetry 

 of the cal}x ; from the outer angles of the stem joints, their posi- 

 tion and that of the cirrhi, whether these are radial or interradial, 

 and from the direction of the rays in the axial canal. The follow- 

 ing rules prevail : — 



1. In species with underbasals, whenever the column is pentan- 

 gular, its longitudinal angles are directed interradially, the sides 

 and columnar cirrhi radially ; on the contrary, in species with 

 basals only, those angles are radial, the sides of the column and 

 the cirrhi interradial. 



2. When there are underbasals and the column is pentapartite, 

 the five sections of the column are radial, the longitudinal sutures 

 interradial, the radiation along the axial canal radial ; but the 

 opposite is the case when basals only exist. 



For further particulars, we refer to our diagrams on Plate 6, 

 which represent species of widely different groups ; and we will 




230 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



state that, notwithstanding we have made the most scrupulous 

 researches throughout our extensive collections and closely 

 examined the descriptions and figures, we have not found a single 

 exception to this rule among all Palaeocrinoidea. There are slight 

 deviations, caused by the quadrangular form of certain columns 

 in species which have otherwise a pentamerous symmetry, but we 

 find this also among the basals, which, when composed of four 

 pieces, cannot be strictly interradial. 



Among Neocrinoidea, our investigations could be extended 

 only to comparatively few genera, as unfortunately these forms 

 have either a round column or a circular canal. Only in a few 

 species of Pentacrinus, Miller ocrinus and Ajriocrinus did we 

 succeed in making out one or the other of these points. In these 

 genera, underbasals are said to be absent, but, curiously enough, 

 the outer angles of the column are interradial, the cirrhi and 

 radiation along the axial canal radial, exactly as in the column of 

 Palasocrinoidea with underbasals, and what is more remarkable, 

 as in Extracrinus, in which, on the contrary, underbasals are said 

 to be present. The latter seems to suggest that probably many 

 Neocrinoidea either possess small underbasals, or these were 

 present in their larval form. This view is strengthened by the 

 fact that underbasals have been found lately in the younger 

 stages of many Ophiurids and Asteroids. 



Prom our observations it is proved conclusively that the under- 

 basals are not developed from the upper stem joint, as had been 

 supposed by some writers, but represent an independent element, 

 as shown by the fact that the longitudinal sections in Crinoids 

 with a quinquepartite column, always alternate with the proximal 

 plates in the calyx. It is also now apparent to us that the under- 

 basals are morphologically of greater importance than has been 

 generally supposed. 



Carpenter's important discovery that the basals represent the 

 genitals, the first radials the oculars of the Echini, and conse- 

 quently that the proximal radial ring of plates in dicyclic Crinoids 

 cannot be basals, has been now generally conceded by European 

 naturalists, while in America it has been accepted only by Prof. 

 Wetherby, Prof. Williams and ourselves, although no objections 

 were urged against it until lately by S. A. Miller. The latter, 

 instead of attempting to prove the falsity of Carpenter's views, 

 makes the singular remark 1 hat the use of the term underbasals, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



in describing species " has given rise to the expression " " under- 

 basals obsolete," " which everyone must concede is ridiculous." 

 Is the phrase " subradials unrepresented " or " obsolete " less 

 ridiculous to Mr. Miller, especially considering that those plates 

 are interradial in position ? He further says : " The policy 

 of changing the nomenclature may well be doubted." "The 

 claim is made that the change will bring the nomenclature used 

 in denning recent Crinoids in conformity with that used in 

 describing fossils, but as long as this is doubted, it is better to 

 adhere to the established or prevailing methods of description." 

 We cannot see what this has to do with recent and fossil Crinoids. 

 If it is right in the one group it is right in the other, for they are 

 built fundamentally on the same plan. The question is simply 

 this: In Crinoids with a dic} T clic base are the plates of the 

 proximal ring or those of the inner ring the homologues of the 

 basals in monocyclic Crinoids ? If the latter is the case, and we 

 think it has been most satisfactory proved by Carpenter, the 

 term basals should be applied iu all cases to the interradial ring, 

 no matter what the " prevailing methods " have been heretofore. 

 Certainly Mr. Miller would not call the anus of fossil Crinoids 

 the mouth, for the reason that it was called so by the most 

 eminent earlier writers. Besides, the term " subradials " is illog- 

 ical, as the plates to which the name was applied are interradial 

 in position. 



In the Neocrinoidea,the basals, with the exception of Hyocrinus, 

 consist of five pieces, and in comparatively few cases an anclry- 

 losis took place. In the Palseocrinoidea, however, among Crinoids 

 with a monocyclic base, anchylosis of two or more of its plates is 

 the rule. We find five basals only in Silurian genera, but asso- 

 ciated with one genus having four. Four basals do not prevail 

 beyond the Devonian, and apparently not bej^ond the middle 

 portion of it. Three basals commence in the Upper Silurian and 

 continue to the close of the Subcarboniferous, while two basals 

 are found exclusively in the latter epoch. 



The number of underbasals is five, with but few exceptions. 

 Xenocrinus has four ; the Ichthyoci'inidae, Gissocrinus, Lecythio- 

 crinus, Tribrachiocrinus, three ; while in the Carboniferous 

 Stemmatocrinus the underbasals form a perfectly anch} r losed 

 disk. The latter was taken by Carpenter to be a top-stem 

 joint, an interpretation which we cannot accept, but as we 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



discuss this question under Stemmatocrinus, we need not enter 

 upon it here. An anchylosis of the underbasals occurs also 

 in Agassizocrinus by the deposition of new material around the 

 outer surface before reaching maturity, b} T means of which the 

 sutures externally and internally become obliterated. The same 

 is the case with the basals in Edi'iocrinus. 



In cases of three unequal basals, the position of the smaller 

 plate varies among the different orders, but is unchanged in the 

 same one. In all Palaeocrinoidea this plate is located between 

 the anterior and left postero-lateral ray (PI. 6, figs. 21, 25, 26); 

 in the Blastoidea between the anterior and right postero-lateral 

 ray (PL 6, fig. 24); in the recent genus Hyocrinus immediately 

 to the right of the anus (Challenger Report, p. 218). In genera 

 with only two basals, such as Dichocrinus, Talarocrinus, Pteroto- 

 crinus and Acrocrinus, the interbasal suture passes from the 

 posterior to the anterior side (PI. 6, fig. 3, and PL 9, fig. 1). 

 When there are three unequal underbasals, as in the case of the 

 Ichtlryocrinidse (PL 6, fig. 23), and in Tribrachiocrinus (PL 6, 

 fig. 5), the smaller one is placed anteriorly. 



B. The Radial and Arm Plates. 



With the exception of Acrocrinus, the radials proper, the repre- 

 sentatives of the oculars, constitute the first row of plates 

 succeeding the basals, with which they alternate. In most of the 

 Palaeocrinoidea they do not form a continuous ring, being inter- 

 rupted posteriorly by an anal piece, and sometimes by additional 

 plates, while in some groups all five radials are separated by five 

 interradials, so as to form jointly a ring of ten plates around the 

 basals. In the Palaeocrinoidea generally, the radials and their 

 associates are united by suture with each other and with the 

 basals. In Cromyocrinus the union is by syzygy, but in a few 

 of the later Poteriocrinidae those plates are provided laterally, 

 and toward the basals, with more or less deep fossae, which 

 suggest a less close union and a certain degree of mobilit} r . In 

 some species of Forbesiorrin us, Ichthyocrinus and Taxocrinus, and 

 probably in the Ichthyocrinidae generally, the radials were united 

 with one another by muscles; with the interradials, however, by 

 ligament, their lateral faces being provided with deep fossae and 

 dentations along the edges. (PL 5, figs. 3-5). 



In some Silurian genera, the radial at the right posterior side 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



makes an exception to the general rule, by either not touching 

 the basals at all, or only toward the right, as in most of the 

 Poteriocrinidae and Cyathocrinidae, while the lower left side abuts 

 against the azygous plate. 1 In still others, one or more of the 

 radials are compound, consisting of two sections, horizontally 

 connected by suture, which, combined, have about the form and 

 size of the adjoining single radials, and are succeeded by the same 

 number of brachials as the others. This peculiar structure, which 

 to some extent disturbs the general symmetry, and which occurs 

 throughout different families, but onty among Silurian and Lower 

 Devonian genera, is evidently of some-importance as representing 

 a very early phase of these Crinoids. The lower segments are 

 probably embiyonal plates, which were resorbed by the upper 

 segments, i. e., the permanent radials ; in a similar manner as the 

 az}'gous and anal plate are resorbed by the right posterior radial, 

 which in most of the earlier Inadunata either is missing, as in the 

 case of Baerocrinus, or, as in others, imperfectly developed. In 

 Baerocrinus 2 one of the earliest known Crinoids, the azygous 

 piece forms a continuous ring with its four radials, and has the 

 same proportion. In the allied Hoplocrinus, however, the right 

 upper corner of the azygous plate is absorbed and replaced by a 

 small trigonal arm-bearing piece, the right posterior radial ; the 

 left corner of the plate remaining intact. This is taken up by the 

 anal piece in Hybocrinus. In Dendrocrinus the azygous plate is 

 reduced to the size of the posterior radial, with which it is con- 

 nected by a horizontal suture. In Homocrinus this suture assumes 

 a sloping position, thereb} 7 again decreasing the proportions of 

 the azygous plate. In Poteriocrinus the latter is reduced to quite 

 a narrow piece, and the radial toward the right is almost as large 

 as that on the opposite side. In Cyathocrinus and Graphiocrinus 

 the azygous plate has disappeared entirely, and both posterior 

 radials are equal in size, but separated b} _ an anal piece. In 



1 The term " azygous plate " is used here, and throughout Part III, exclu- 

 sively for the uusymmetrical lower plate of the posterior (anal or azygous) 

 interradius, the so-calk'd " first anal plate" of most American writers. We 

 reserve the term "anal piece" for the plate enclosed within the ring of 

 radials. 



2 For further information on Baerocrinus and the gradual resorption of 

 the azygous and anal plate in the Inadunata generally, we direct attention 

 to our paper on Hybocrinus, Hoplocrinus and Baerocrinus ; Amer. Journ. 

 Sci., 1883, vol. xxvi, p. 365. 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Erisocrinus the anal plate also is resorbed, and all five radials 

 are perfectly uniform. 



Comparing the gradual reduction of the azygous piece, from a 

 strictly radial non-arm-bearing plate to its ultimate resorption by 

 the light posterior radial, with the modifications which the lower 

 sections of the compound radials undergo among species, it 

 appears to us that the azygous piece may represent the lower 

 segment of the posterior radial. This is further suggested by 

 the genera Anomalocrinus and Heterocrinus, in which the azygous 

 piece, upon its truncate upper side, supports the right posterior 

 radial, which has the form and position of the upper section of 

 the compound radials ; while the az3^gous piece has the form of 

 their lower section. The respective plates in both cases resemble 

 each other so closely, jointly and separately, that they were all 

 described as radials. 



In the Actinocrinidse, Platj'crinidse, Rhodocrinidae, and in all 

 groups in which the general symmetry is not disturbed by the 

 presence of an azygous plate, the radials are more or less equal 

 in size, the only remarkable exceptions being the Catillocrinidse 

 and Calceocrinidae. In Catillocrinus only the two antero-lateral 

 radials are approximately alike. All the others differ widely in 

 shape and size, and while these two plates support from fourteen 

 to thirty arms each, the three others have rarehy more than one. 

 Another peculiarity of this genus is that it has no axillary plates, 

 all the arms being given off directly from the radials without the 

 assistance of brachials. Calceocrinus has but three radials, of 

 which the anterior one is composed of two parts, which, however, 

 are not alwa} r s continuous. 



Our view, that the arms fundamentally commence with the 

 plate above the first radials, whether this is free or incorporated 

 into the calyx, has been fully accepted by P. H. Carpenter, Chall. 

 Rep., p. 48, who further proves it by the developmental history of 

 the plates. The outer radials, he states, " commence as imperfect 

 rings, which soon become filled up with lengthening fasciculated 

 tissue, just as in the case with the stem joints and Inter brachials;" 

 but " the first radials, like the basals and orals, commence as ex- 

 panded cribiform films." He further agrees with us that in 

 practice, for purposes of description, it is more convenient to 

 regard the arms as commencing with the first free plate, provided 

 their real nature is tiol lost sight of. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



The mode of union between the higher radials is either by 

 suture or articulation. A sutural union is found in the Actino- 

 crinidae, Rhodocrinidae, Platvcrinidae, Eucalyptocrinidae, and all 

 genera for which we propose the collective name Camarata. Union 

 by articulation prevails in the radials of the Ichthyocrinidae, 

 Crotaloerinidaa and the Articulata generally. In most of the 

 Ichthycrinidse, the transverse faces had muscles and ligament so 

 as to permit motion in all directions (PI. 6, figs. 3, 4). The lateral 

 faces contain deep fossaa, surrounded by a dentated margin (PI. 

 6, fig. 5). P. H. Carpenter and other writers express the opinion 

 that in Platycrinus also the first radials were united to the outer 

 plates by articulation. They evidently were led to this supposi- 

 tion by some of the figures, which show what appears to be a 

 transverse articular ridge, but which really marks out the inner 

 end or termination of the small wedge-shaped second radial. This 

 plate, in man 3' of the Platyeriniche, does not extend out to the 

 end of the scar, the remaining part being only covered by the 

 third plates. We have examined thousands of detached radials 

 of this genus, which indicate plainly that the union was in most 

 of the species by syzygy, and this explains why the upper radials 

 became so generally detached. Others are joined by a more or 

 less close suture, but none by muscles. 



The primary radials of the Camarata consist as a rule of three 

 plates, exceptionally of two or four. Platycrinus generally has 

 two, but here the second and third evidently were anchylosed. 

 Many plates show a depression indicating the former suture, which 

 in some of the earlier species is yet visible. The second radial 

 of Stereocrinus has the proportions of the combined second and 

 third of the allied Dolatocrinus, and the same is true with regard 

 to Anthemocrinus and Eucrinus. In Batocrinus the second radial 

 is short, linear, and found occasionally anchylosed with the third. 

 Four primary radials occur in Beteocrinus, and also in the im- 

 perfectly known Schizoci'inus. From Hall's figure of Schizo- 

 crinus heterodactylus, N. York Palaeont., i, PI. 28, fig. 3 a, it would 

 appear as if the first and second plate combined were equivalent 

 to the first radial in other genera, and here, as in the case of Eete- 

 rocrinus and Hoplocrinus, composed of two parts. 



In the Articulata the numbers of their primary radials is more 

 variable, and the presence of four radials by no means the excep- 

 tion ; but four are often associated in the same specimen with 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



three or five. Taxocrinus Egertoni Phill. (Geol. Yorksh., PI. 3, 

 fig. 39), even has seven in one, and six in another ray. Onycho- 

 crinus very frequently has five, Ichthyocrinus generally three and 

 four in alternate rays, Taxocrinus three or four, Forbesiocrinus 

 robust us three and two, and Pycnosaccus two as a rule. Forbesio- 

 crinus Agassizi sometimes has two primary radials in one or more 

 of its rays, most frequently three, but very often four, and all are 

 articulated on a similar plan. 



The secondar}^ and higher orders of radials in the Camarata 

 rarely consist of more than two plates, sometimes, however, of 

 one, three or even four. Only Glyptocrinus, Reteocrinus and 

 allied genera sometimes have a larger number. In the typical 

 Actinocrinidae, which branch from alternate sides, the higher 

 orders consist as a rule of a single piece to each division of the 

 ray. which always at the one side supports the radial of the suc- 

 ceeding order, at the other a row of brachials. The latter, how- 

 ever, as should be expected from the term, are not free, but 

 connected laterally by suture with their fellows of alternate orders. 

 In the Ichthyocrinidae, the higher orders of radials agree in num- 

 ber and form, more or less, with the primary ones, and all are 

 similarly articulated. 



Free rays are found as a rule in the Platycrinidae ; in Euclado- 

 crinus they extend to nearhy the full length of the ray, giving off 

 alternately from every second or third plate an arm, and two at 

 the distal end. Similar rays are formed in Steganocrinus and in 

 Melocrinus; among the Rhodocrinidae in Ripidocrinus. 



The arms of the Camarata bifurcate in their free state only in 

 the genera which Zittel included under the name Glyptocrinidae, 

 in the Rhodocrinidae, and in a few Actinocrinidae, but all branch 

 at least once in the calyx. In all young specimens, as well as in 

 the earlier forms, the arms are composed of a single row of plates, 

 which gradually, embryologically and paleontologieall}', turn into 

 wedge-shaped pieces at the distal end, or even interlock, while in 

 all later genera the arms are composed of alternate joints. In 

 the Upper Silurian, the biserial arm structure predominates and 

 there is not a single species with uniserial arms in the Devonian. 

 Among the free anus there are no syzygies, but ever}' joint in 

 this group bears a pinnule, and these are frequently so closely 

 folded together, that they appear as if suturally connected. In 

 the Articulata, all arm- are composed of single joints, which in 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



their external form agree with the higher radials, being only 

 narrower, and free plates. 



In the Inadunata, in which the arms are free from the first 

 radial, the homologies of the outer primary radials, which we 

 have distinguished as brachials, vary in some genera considerably 

 in number. The greatest variation in this regard occurs among 

 the typical Cyathocrinid^e (Cvathocrinites as we called them here- 

 tofore), in which the number varies even among the rays of the 

 same species, so much indeed, that one ray may have one, the 

 adjoining two, the next perhaps five or six. The other groups 

 have rarely more than two brachials, and most of them but one. 

 The brachials are regular arm plates, with a well-developed ambu- 

 lacral furrow, but without pinnules. The arms are composed of 

 single joints, except in the Poteriocrinidae and Eucrinidae, in 

 which the biserial arm structure is associated with the uniserial 

 one. Pinnules are wanting in the Hybocrinidse, Symbathocriniclse 

 and Cyathocrinidae, and in the two former the rays are undivided, 

 consisting of a single arm. In the Heterocrinidae and Belemno- 

 crinidae, the pinnules are arranged from every second or third 

 joint throughout the entire arm, the non-arm-bearing joints being 

 united by syzygy, while among the Poteriocrinidae every joint 

 from the second up, bears a pinnule. 



C. The Interradial, Inter axillary and Interbrachial Plates. 



The interradial plates occupy the intermediate spaces between 

 the primarj' rays; the interaxillaries between the main divisions 

 of the ray ; the interbrachials between the arm bases. All these 

 plates may be considered as parts of the same element. The 

 interradials consist primarily of five single plates, which rest 

 either upon the upper or between the lateral margins of two first 

 radials. Only in the genus Briarocrinus, and in a few Ichthyo- 

 crinidsB,do the interradials commence higher up. Higher orders 

 of interradials are only found in the Camarata and Articulata. 

 Their office is to increase the capacity of the visceral cavity by 

 incorporating the lower arm-plates into the calyx, and also to 

 strengthen it. The}- are auxiliary pieces, and serve to fill up 

 spaces, and in this capacity adapt their form to adjoining plates. 

 The higher interradials do not possess the morphological import- 

 ance of the primary ones, which are early developed in the young 

 individual, and represent important elements throughout the 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



earlier Crinoids. The interradials increase by age, vary greatly 

 in number, often in the same species, and even in different rays. 

 There are generally two plates in the second row, but sometimes 

 one or three ; beyond these the arrangement of the interradials is 

 more or less irregular. In the Inadunata the interradials are 

 located exclusively on the ventral side; in the Camarata both 

 dorsallv and ventrally. 



The Reteocrinidse and Acrocrinidse, exceptionally, possess no 

 primary interradials properly speaking. In the former group, all 

 radials, from the basals up, are separated lateralty by numerous 

 minute pieces, without definite arrangement. Acrocrinus has a 

 large belt of small plates, separating radials and interradials from 

 the basals, and the interradial series proper commences with two 

 plates. 



In Part II, p. 15, when describing the structure of the vault of the 

 " Spha?roidocrinidae," we discriminated between true interradials 

 and interradial dome plates, the former as being developed around 

 the dorsal, the latter ai'ound the ventral pole. At that time we 

 were under the impression, and it was the general opinion among 

 naturalists, that the plates of the ventral side in all Crinoids, 

 recent and fossil, constitute a part of the actinal system. It was 

 known to be the case throughout the Neocrinoidea, and among 

 Palseocrinoids we found several genera in which the interradials 

 of the dorsal side are separated from those of the ventral side. 

 In Batocrinus, the higher orders of radials frequently are not 

 separated bj r interradials, as in the case of the primary ones, but 

 join laterally with their fellows, thereb}^ causing an interruption 

 in the interradial series. These cases, however, form exceptions 

 to the rule ; the interradials of the two hemispheres almost always 

 meet each other, and there is no dividing line by which they can 

 be distinguished. 



That the abactinal interradials extend to the ventral side, is 

 well shown by the Platycrinidae and Hexacrinidse, our former 

 subdivisions Platycrinites and Hexacrinites, in which the first 

 interradials occupy the equatorial zone, and all succeeding ones 

 are located ventrally. When we defined these groups, we described 

 the first row of interradials to be composed of a single plate, a 

 statement which is not strictly correct. 



Consulting our figures (PI. t,figs. 5-8, and PI. 9, fig. 6), it will 

 be seen that in the Platycrinidse and Hexacrinida 1 , the first row 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 239 



of interradials contains not one alone, but invariably three or 

 more plates, placed side by side, all resting upon the upper faces 

 of the first radials. Only the middle plate, the one placed upon 

 the outer ends of two radials, corresponds with the first interra- 

 dial of other groups; the plates at the sides are accessory pieces, 

 and rank as interradials of the second and third row, respectively. 

 Species with a discoid base have sometimes five plates in the same 

 row, of which only the outer ones meet the second radials. In 

 the simplest form of Platycrinus, the middle plate connects 

 directly with the proximals, and at the azygous side with anal 

 plates. In most species, however, the first row is succeeded by 

 other interradials, which either connect laterally with their fellows 

 of adjoining sides, forming with them a continuous belt around 

 the peristome (PL 5, fig. 9, and PL ?, fig. 6), or are separated by 

 radial structures. In either case there is no dividing line 

 between the plates of the outer and inner rows, and the upper 

 rows always rest against the proximals. The case is the same in 

 Marsujriocrinus ( PL 8, fig. 7), Hexacrinus, Dichocrinus and Tala- 

 rocrinus, and similar in Coccocrinus and Culicocrinus, which we 

 shall discuss farther on. 



In the organization of the Actinocrinidse, Melocrinidse, Euca- 

 lyptocrinidse, Rhodocrinidse, Glyptasteridse and Reteocrinidag, 

 the interradials form even more important parts than in the two 

 groups above mentioned- That here the plates of the ventral 

 side form a continuation of the interradials at the dorsal side, is 

 clearly indicated in genera whose arms are given olf in clusters, 

 or in which the rays are formed into lateral extensions. In 

 such species, the interradial series are not disturbed by so many 

 radials, nor by interaxillary plates, and the interradials decrease 

 in size gradually all the way from the first interradial up to the 

 proximals. In species, however, in which the arms are arranged 

 in a continuous ring, the interradials decrease in size more or less 

 from the poles toward the periphery. This decrease in the size 

 of the plates toward the equatorial regions is easily explained by 

 the extravagant increase of arms in those species, and by the 

 nature of the interradial plates, which, as stated, are accessory 

 pieces, filling up spaces. An occasional interruption of the 

 series, therefore, is no proof that the two sections represent 

 different elements. 



In some genera the interradials of the ventral side are exceed- 




240 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



ingly small, without definite arrangement, and they cover the 

 surface radially and Lnterradlally. This is frequently the case in 

 the Silurian genera, Glyptocrinus, Periechocrinus, Melocrinus and 

 Reteocrinus. Their ventral covering resembles so closely the 

 <li-k of certain Comatulae, that it might appear as if this multi- 

 tude of irregular plates, which sometimes decrease in size toward 

 the periphery, and extend out to the free rays, could not be true 

 vault pieces. In proof, however, that this is the case, we refer to 

 Mr. St. John's carefully prepared diagram of Glyptocrinus ramu- 

 losus Billings, drawn from a specimen in the Canada Survey 

 Museum, and kindty loaned to us by Prof. Whiteaves. Of the 

 specimen only one-half of the calyx is preserved, and this is 

 imbedded in rock, exposing only the inner floor. Glyptocrinus 

 ramulosus is the largest species of the genus, and this facilitates 

 the study of the plates. Like all other species of Glyptocrinus 

 it has a large number of irregular interradial, interaxillary and 

 interbrachial plates, which meet* laterally over the arm openings, 

 and are continued to the summit, leaving no line of demarkation 

 between the plates of the two hemispheres. In the direction of 

 each arm opening the floor is distinctly grooved, and these 

 grooves or depressions, which diverge from the centre to the 

 arm furrows, evidently lodge the ambulacra. That the grooved 

 plates are not covering pieces, is shown by the fact that they 

 have the same irregular arrangement as the other plates. The 

 whole structure reminds us of Physetocrinus, and we have no 

 doubt that the vault in those two genera was built essentially on 

 the same plan. We find this further confirmed by the fact, that 

 in the Canada specimen the inner faces of the interradial and 

 interaxillary plates — but not any of the radial ones — are provided 

 with short nodes, such as are found in many Actinocrinidse, and 

 which serve there as pillars or partition walls between disk and 

 vault. 



In the Crotalocrinidae, which include Grotalocrinus and Enallo- 

 crinus, the whole ventral surface, in what appear to be the best- 

 preserved specimens, is composed of strong, convex plates, 

 without definite arrangement. In these specimens there is no 

 central piece, nor proximals, nor traces of ambulacra (Icon. Crin. 

 Suec, PI. 7, fig. 3 a ; PI. 8, figs. G, 7, and PI. 25, fig. 2) ; there are, 

 however, other figures of Angelin, apparently of a closely allied 

 species (Ibid., PI. 17, fig. 3 a), in which the plates paving the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 241 



ventral surface arc much more delicate, and consist of a centra! 

 plate, large proximals, and several rows of covering pieces, 

 without the intervention of either anambulacral or interradial 

 pieces. It would lie difficult with the utmost stretch of our 

 imagination to recognize in the former figures either proximals 

 or central piece, which, as admitted by Carpenter, are present in 

 all these Crinoids, and we think there can be little doubt that 

 the two sets of figures represent different parts of the animal, the 

 one the disk, the other the vault, and that the one covered the 

 other. A similar opinion was evidently entertained by Zittel 

 (Hanclb. d. Paheont., i, p. 357), who stated that Crotalocrinus pos- 

 sessed five " grosse Oralplatten, bald unter der Decke, bald 

 ausserlich sichtbar." According to our interpretation, the calyx 

 of the Crotalocrinida- extends ventrally to the oral pole, and 

 the ambulacra, central piece and proximals are subtegminal, 

 covered by interradial plates, which extend out to the lower rows 

 of covering plates and side-pieces (Icon. Crin. Suec, PL 7, fig. 6, 

 and PI. 25, fig. 15). A similar condition probably prevailed in 

 the Ichthyoerinida?, with which the Crotalocrinid;e have close 

 atlinities. 



In the Ichthyoerinida*, inter radials have been observed only 

 at the dorsal side, where they are subject to many irregularities. 

 In some of the genera they are always present, in others entirely 

 absent ; while there are still other genera and certain species, in 

 which they are occasionally undeveloped dorsally. The interra- 

 dials of the Ichthyocriniclse are united by ligamentous articulation 

 among themselves, and also laterally with the radials, as shown by 

 the presence of deep fossa 1 at the sides of the plates (PI. .">, fig. 5). 

 The mobility in the test, resulting from this structure, led us 

 formerly to state that the ventral covering, which is so rarely 

 preserved. " perhaps " consisted of a " soft or scaly integument." 

 The word " soft " was ill-chosen, and did not express our real 

 meaning, we should have said, as we did in other places," pliable." 

 There is nothing to indicate a membranous surface structure, but 

 the pavement evidently was pliable in conformity with the con- 

 dition of the test at the dorsal side. In Onychocrinus exsculp- 

 tus, the only [chthyocrinoid in which portions of the ventral 

 covering have been observed. Lyon and Casseday found in the 

 radial regions rather large, alternately arranged plates (Amer. 



17 




242 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Journ. of Sci., 18f»9, vol. xxix, p. 79), and in another specimen 

 we found, inter radially disposed, small imbricating plates con- 

 uecting with larger pieces. Whether the latter, as we supposed, 

 represent the summit plates, or Lyon and Casseday's alternating 

 pieces, we could not make out satisfactorily. Carpenter took 

 them to be " covering plates of the ambulacra, which perhaps 

 \\ire permanently closed as in the Platycrinidae, or only tem- 

 porarily so as in the Neocrinoids ; while the small irregular 

 plates, which form the interradial portions of the vault, corres- 

 pond to the anambulacral plates of recent Crinoids. They pass 

 downward into the interradials at the sides of the calyx, just as 

 in the recent species and in the Liassic Exlracrinus" (Chall. 

 Hep., p. 181). We accept the first part of this explanation that 

 these alternate plates probably correspond to the covering 

 pieces of the Platycrinidae ; we even admit these plates to be 

 morphologically identical with those along the disk of the 

 Neocrinoidea. Bui we doubt if the interradial portions in 

 Onychocrinus, or Plati/crinus either, correspond to the anambu- 

 lacral plates of recent Crinoids. The interradial plates of vault 

 and disk are very distinct structures ; the former constitute a 

 part of the abactinal system, while those of the disk are actinal. 

 Before we enter upon further discussion of this subject, we direct 

 attention to the ventral structure of the Blastoidea and Cyatho- 

 crinidae. 



The Cj'athocrinida' were described by us as having no inter- 

 radials, and until lately we considered this a fixed character of 

 this group. The fact that the only plates interradial in position 

 are located ventrally, seemed to us as sufficient evidence that 

 they were actinal plates, and as such they seemed to be the 

 representatives of the oral plates in the Neocrinoidea. We 

 thought the same regarding the deltoids in the Blastoidea, which 

 occupy essentially the same position in relation to adjacent parts 

 .■is the above plates in the Cyathocrinidae. Prof. Zittel, in his 

 " Handbuch der Palseontologie, i," like us, called the plates orals 

 in all three groups, and this interpretation was afterwards 

 accepted by Mr. Etheridge, Jr., and P. Herb. Carpenter, in 

 their paper, "On certain points in the Morphology of the 

 Blastoids " (Ann. Mag. Nat. Eist., April, 1882, p. 214), in which 

 these writers state thai in Blastoids the calyx is formed "by 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



the basals, radials <>r forked pieces, and the deltoid pieces or 

 orals." 1 



The latter statement seems to us an anomaly. It is impossible 

 that those plates can be orals, and at the same time form part of 

 the calyx. The orals in recent Crinoids have never been con- 

 sidered as calyx pieces, and hence, if the deltoids are orals, they 

 do not belong to the calyx. That, however, they are calyx 

 plates is indicated by their position and relations to other parts, 

 and still more by their enormous variation in size among species 

 of the same genus. If the deltoids were orals, the actinal 

 system in the Blastoids, in forms like Elseacrinus obovafus. 

 would occupy over three-fourths of the entire test, while in 

 Heteroschisma,Y?hich has exceedingly small deltoids, these regions 

 would be reduced to a small circum-oral space. The proportions 

 of the actinal and abactinal regions in the test, respectively, 

 were looked upon by Prof. L. Agassiz as determining the 

 different outlines of the various " orders " of Echinoderms, 

 which he ranked according to the greater preponderance of the 

 one over the other, and this, if true, proves conclusively that the 

 deltoids are not actinal plates, and, therefore, are not orals, but 

 must be interradials. The same argument, however, cannot be 

 applied to the Cyathocrinidae. in which the so-called orals are 

 located ventrally. and from analogy with recent Crinoids should 

 be actinal plates. 



By carefully removing the arms in some of our best specimens 

 of Gyathocrinus, we succeeded in exposing the ventral surface in 

 several species, and were enabled to observe its structure in 

 various stages of preservation. In a specimen of Gyatkocrinus 

 Gilesi (PI. 4, fig. 2), from the Burlington and Keokuk Transition 

 beds, we found in situ the five large interradial plates, the so- 

 called orals, all connected laterally, and each one provided along 

 its upper face with a conspicuous central node. In another 

 specimen of the same species (PI. 4, fig. 3), these interradials 

 were partly covered along their surface by numerous irregular 

 pieces, but so as to leave the central node exposed, the face at a 

 level with the small tegminal pieces. In two specimens of 



1 We are pleased to state that Dr. P. H. Carpenter, whom we had 

 acquainted with the modification of our views regarding these plates, now 

 fully agrees with us that neither those of the Blastoidea nor Cyathocrinidaa 

 are orals (see C'hall. Rep., p. 162). 




244 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Cyathocrinus multiradiatus from Crawfordsville, of which the 

 one is figured (PI. 4, fig. 6), the entire surface of the interradials, 

 and also the circum-oral space, is covered by minute plates, 

 except at one end (see figure) where the plate underneath is 

 exposed -to view. The structure is similar in Cyathocrinus 

 iowensis from the Lower Burlington limestone (PI. 5, fig. 7), hut 

 there the plates closing the peristome consist of eight consider- 

 ably larger pieces, placed around a central one, arranged in pairs, 

 of which each pair corresponds in form and position to one of 

 the four large proximals in other genera. 



In the above specimens, the so-called orals are covered along 

 their sutures by well-defined ambulacra, lined by side-pieces 

 and covering plates, and these connect laterally with the small 

 tegminal plates which we have described. That all surface plates 

 in these species are perisomic, nobody will doubt after consulting 

 our figures, and that the plates supporting them are interradials 

 and not orals, is proved by the fact that the} T surround the peris- 

 tome, but do not cover it, and are succeeded by numerous other 

 plates. 



This, however, was not the structure of the Inadunata gener- 

 ally, or even of all Cyathocrinidae. Angelin figures from the 

 Silurian of Sweden (Icon. Crin. Suec, PI. 23, figs. 10 6, 11), two 

 specimens under the name of Cyathocrinus alutaceus, in which 

 the interradials (orals) were exposed, and not covered by plates. 

 The} T have a central piece, surrounded by four large proximals, 

 and there are, alternating with them, live conspicuous radial dome 

 plates, with numerous irregular pieces along the posterior or anal 

 side, which join the central plate, and extend outwards, forming 

 a short protuberance, composed of small pieces. There are at 

 the surface no traces of ambulacra, and the whole structure ven- 

 trally is almost identical with that of certain forms of Platycrinus; 

 while the dorsal side of the species shows clearly the characters 

 not only of the Cyathocrinidae generally, but the detail structure 

 of the genus Cyathocrinus. The total absence of ambulacra upon 

 the surface proves that in this species the disk was subtegminal. 

 covered by the plates which have been heretofore called orals, but 

 which are identical with the first interradial plates of Platycriiuis, 

 and with the lirsl interradials of Actinocrinus and other Camarata. 

 The structural identity with all these plates proves that the inter- 

 radials of the Cyathocrinidae, and the deltoids of the Blastoidea, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



arc abactinal plates, that they constitute; a part of the calyx ; and 

 it proves further, which is equally important, that some of the 

 Palaeocrinidse have abactinal [dates along their ventral side. That 

 C. alutaceus cannot be retained in the same genus with the Car- 

 boniferous forms is self-evident. The two are morphologically 

 in a very different condition, and we should propose for the former 

 a new generic name if we had before us specimens in place of 

 figures. 



Carpenter fully accepts the views previously held by us, that 

 in the Camarata all interradials located dorsally are abactinal 

 plates, and those at the ventral side actinal. It should be stated, 

 however, that we had communicated to him, in time for the Chal- 

 lenger Report, the modifications our views had undergone on this 

 point. We make this statement to show that Carpenter's inter- 

 pretation of the plates was not based upon our — as we believe — 

 erroneous observations, but was the result of his own studies. 

 Carpenter even goes further than we ever did. He asserts that 

 the plates, which we took to be the actinal representatives of the 

 interradials, in some groups, are anambulacral plates, and form 

 a part of the disk. 



His interpretations of the interradials in the Platj'crinidae are 

 not always harmonious. If we understand him correctby, he 

 regards the first interradial piece as a calyx plate (Chall. Rep., p. 

 40 ), but all succeeding ones as perisomic, " much more substantial, 

 however, than in Neocrinoids, and forming part of the solid 

 covering, but not a true vault or tegmen caHcis" (Chall. Rep., p. 

 179). On the same page he states further: " Although believing 

 that the vault of a Platycrinoid corresponds collectively to the 

 orals, interradials, ambulacral and anambulacral plates of Neo- 

 crinoids, I do not wish to assert that the Plat3^crinida3 either had 

 an external mouth or open ambulacra on the disk." On page 1T8, 

 however, he states that the " series of four or six interradials, 

 corresponds generally to the single large interradial of Cyatho- 

 crinus" It is not clear to us, how the same pieces can be anam- 

 bulacral, i. e. disk plates, and at the same time "correspond 

 generally " to a true interradial plate. He supports his theory 

 by pointing to the alternating pieces, the so-called "covering 

 plates," which in most of the Platycrinidse appear along the radial 

 portions of the ventral surface, and which he believes are always 

 subtegminal in Actinocrinus. He says : " I do not myself think 




24f> PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1885 



that the vault of a Platycrinite was exactly of the same nature 

 as thai oi an A.ctinocrinite, i. e., that it covered in the whole of 

 the visceral inns- and ambulacra on its upper surface. For if the 

 alternating dome plates represent the covering plates of recent 

 Crinoids, then all the periphery of the dome, outside of the apical 

 dome plates, must be the real ventral surface of the body, and 

 not a tegmen calicis as in Actinocrinus." And he states further, 

 on page 1 T ' > : " There is some point on the actinal side of every 

 Crinoid where the food grooves leave the oral system, covering 

 up the peristome in which the}- originate, and are only closed by 

 the covering plates a1 their sides." This is quite true as to the 

 Neocrinoidea, in which the calyx- is limited to the dorsal side, but 

 not altogether in the case of the older Crinoids, in which the calyx. 

 as we believe, takes up the greater part of the ventral surface, 

 and the covering pieces frequently are embodied among abactinal 

 plates. In the Platycrinidse the disk is subtegminal, although 

 portions of the covering pieces appear along the surface, but 

 these, in place of lining the sides of the food grooves, are incor- 

 porated between the interradials, resting between them as solidly 

 as the summit plates, and cover the food grooves as tightly, as 

 the interradials do in Actinocrin"*. 



Carpenter agrees with us that the radials above the first are 

 fundamentally arm plates, which, in the growing Crinoid, by the 

 increase of interradials, were incorporated into the calyx. 

 During the process of incorporation, by the widening of the 

 equatorial zone, the ambulacral vessels and food grooves of the 

 incorporated arm plates, gradually were lifted .out from the arm- 

 furrows, and stretched out, along the disk in the form of tubes, 

 being enclosed from above and below by plates. These ambula- 

 cral tubes in most of the Actinocrinidse are altogether subteg- 

 minal, and located at a distance from the inner floor of the vault, 

 until on approaching the arm bases they not only come in contact 

 with, but raise up the interradial plates and push them aside, 

 exposing to view the upper rows of tube plates, the so-called 

 covering pieces, which are thence continued along the arm 

 furrows. 



In the Platycrinidse, the conditions are essentially the same as 

 in the Actinocrinidfe, hut most generally the covering-plates of 

 the tubes penetrate the vault before they pass into the arms. 

 This takes place either along the outer edges of the proximals, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



or beyond the succeeding ring of interradials. In either case, 

 however, the covering-plates join laterally with the interradials, 

 and accommodate themselves, more or less, in form and size, to 

 the surrounding plates, so much, indeed, that frequently they 

 attain the same rigid form as the true vault pieces (PI. 7, figs. 5, 

 7, 8). Sometimes, however, as in the case of Marsupiocrinus 

 ccelatus, the alternating plates retain their original form and deli- 

 cate structure, while in the same genus, in Marsupiocrinus 

 Tennessese (PI. 8, fig. 7), they are as rigid as the interradials. 



For pi-oof that our descriptions of the alternating plates, and 

 the ambulacral tubes generally, are based upon actual observa- 

 tion, we refer to the casts of Dorycrinus (?) (PL 4, fig. 5), Stroto- 

 crinus (PI. 4, fig. 4), and Platycrinus (PI. 5, fig. '.)), in all of which 

 the ambulacra, at some distance before entering the peristome, 

 are covered up in the cast and are visible upon the surface only 

 at or near the arm bases. The cast of Platycrinus, which we have 

 illustrated, shows beautifull}- the alternate arrangement of the 

 covering plates, which pass out from beneath a belt of large 

 interradials. Looking at this figure we do not see how Carpenter 

 can any longer maintain that Platycrinus possessed no tubular 

 skeleton, and that the upper interradials are anambulacral plates. 

 The specimen will also convince him that there are in this genus 

 upon the surface of the cast no " elevated rounded ridges, almost 

 like strings overlying the surface," as he imagined (Chall. Rep., p. 

 179), and which, he thought, represented " the open food grooves 

 of recent Crinoids." Among the twelve or more casts of Platy- 

 crinus which we examined from Mr. Rowle}'^ collection, not one 

 bears that string-like structure, and in all of them the ambulacral 

 tubes are placed around the peristome at a distance from the 

 vault. That even in the Actinocrinidas those strings which we 

 noticed upon the casts do not represent organs connected with 

 the food grooves, will be shown elsewhere. 



Among Actinocrinidae, and probabby in other families, the 

 covering plates sometimes penetrate the interradials in a similar 

 manner as in the Platycrinidae, and this is so even in the genus 

 Actinocrinus. Actinocrinus stellaris, from the Mountain lime- 

 stone of Belgium, has a row of alternating plates covering the 

 food grooves, a character not well shown in Be Koninck's figures • 

 although the arrangement of the plates is very regular in the 

 specimens, and almost identical with that of certain species of 




213 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Platycrinus. They form a ridge of strong tuberculous plates. 

 and are almost as prominenl as the apical or summit plates of 

 this species, while the in terradials, from the first to the last, are 



scarcely convex. The same structure is also found in Slegano- 

 crinus concinnus ( PL 8, fig. 4). In Carpocrinus ornatus, however. 

 the alternate plates retain, more or less, the character of other 

 perisomic pieces. 



Wherever covering plates in the Camarata are exposed, they 

 are invariably placed on a level with the in terradials, not upon 

 their surface, and the ambulacra are essentially in the same con- 

 dition as those of the A el inocrinidic, only the interradials do not 

 close over them, bul are pushed aside. The case, however, is very 

 different in the higher form of Gyathocrinus, in which not the 

 covering plates alone, but the whole tubular skeleton and the 

 entire disk is exposed. 



The discovery of anambulacral plates upon the surface of the 

 interradials is morphologically of the utmost importance, as 

 throwing light upon the phylogenetic as well as the ontogenetic 

 development of the older Crinoids and their relation to the 

 Neocrinoidea. II' a resorption of these interradial plates, as we 

 believe, took place in the Poteriocrinidse, then the dividing line 

 between the older and later Crinoids becomes so narrow, that it 

 is difficult to decide where the one terminates and the other 

 begins. A resorption of the interradial plates in palaeontological 

 times is in accordance with the embryological development of 

 recent Crinoids. Carpenter is inclined to believe (Chall. Rep., 

 p. 40), that the interradial plates, which SirWyville Thomson 

 (Philos. Trans., 1865, p. 540) observed in the early larval stages 

 of Antedon rosacea, and which he takes to be primary inter- 

 radials, " eventually undergo resorption like the orals and the 

 anal plate." 



I)i the Neocrinoidea, with the exception of Thaumatovrimi*. 

 Guettardicrihus, and one or two species of Apiocrinns, the inter- 

 radials are represented by indistinct plates, and are only tem- 

 porarily developed. In the Pahcocrinoidea, however, the inter- 

 radials are permanent, and in some groups so extravagantly 

 developed thai they constitute the greater part of the calyx. It 

 is very remarkable thai we find the most profuse development of 

 interradials among Silurian genera, which tends to prove thai a 

 largely developed interradial system represents a lower grade 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



of organization in these Crinoids, especially as these plates in- 

 crease numerically in the individual by growth. In the Crotalo- 

 crinidae they cover the entire peristome, including the central 

 piece and proximals. In the Reteocrinida? and Glyptoerinidae 

 they extend from the basals to the central piece. In Actino- 

 crinus, Melocrinus and Platycrinus, from the first radial to the 

 proximals, exactly as in the early Cyathocrinus, only that in the 

 latter the interradials consist of a large single plate, in the others 

 of numerous small ones. 



If it were true that the deltoids of the Blastoldea, and their 

 representatives, the interradials of the Cyathocrinid;e, were 

 orals, the first interradials of all Camarata would be oral plates, 

 and all higher orders upward growth of the orals. That this is 

 not the case is clearly shown by the fact that all these plates, 

 from the first to the last, are calyx plates, i. e., abactinal ; while 

 the orals of the Neocrinoidea are actinal, being developed around 

 the left peritoneal tube. 



That the interradials and their associates, the interaxillaries 

 and interbrachials, dorsally and ventrally, are abactinal plates is 

 further shown by the presence of perisomic plates underneath 

 the vault, which, wherever they have been observed subtegmin- 

 all}-, extend from the first interradial to the end of the central 

 piece (PL 2, fig. 8). The disk of the Palreocrinoida 1 , thei-efore, 

 begins from beneath the first interradial, and rests, as in the 

 Neocrinoidea, against the first primary radial, thereby making 

 the first interradial, in the true sense of the word, a vault plate. 1 



According to Carpenter, the Ichthyocrinidae and some of the 

 doubtful Silurian forms, such as Reteocrinus and Xenocrinus, 



1 The term "vault" has been heretofore applied by most writers to all 

 plates of the ventral side. In this sense it is actually a misnomer. If the 

 term is used at all, it should by right include all interradial, interaxillary 

 and interbrachial plates, dorsally and ventrally, and these might be very 

 appropriately designated as vault plates, to distinguish them from the 

 perisomic or disk plates, which are placed beneath the others, and follow 

 their direction. But fearing that the introduction of a new term, or giving 

 a different intei pretation to the same term, might produce confusion, we 

 it t ,i in it as a convenient and short mode of expression for all plates of the 

 ventral side that are not perisomic. It is therefore a merely conventional 

 term. Carpenter applies it to all actinal plates of the dome, with the 

 exception of the perisomic ones, in which he includes all interradials of 

 the ventral side which he takes to be actinal. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



appear to occupy an intermediate position between the heavily 

 vaulted Platycrinidae and the more thinly plated recent forms. 



We have shown already that neither the small irregular plates 

 in Glyptocrinus, nor any of the interradials of Platycrinus, are 



perisomic plates, and this in itself is a strong proof, that the 

 structure, which occupies relatively the same position in the allied 

 genus Reteocrinus, cannot represent a totally different thing. 

 Carpenter leaves us in doubt whether the so-called disk of Beteo- 

 crinus and Xenocrinus begins at the basals, where those minute 

 irregular pieces commence, or at the equatorial zone, as he be- 

 lieves it does in Glyptocrinus. It seems to us, if he had not 

 meant the whole interradial series, he would not have made a 

 comparison of these parts with those of the Liassic Extrac?'imix 

 and recent forms without interradials, but would rather have 

 -elected Thaumatocrinus, in which interradials are present. 

 He also indicates it by his remarks on the fixed pinnules of 

 Reteocrinus, which, as we know, are located dorsally, and which 

 he says (Chall. Hep., pp. 39, 40) are soldered together by the 

 minute irregular plates, winch pass insensibly upwards into the 

 plates of the so-called vault, and further: u This condition recurs 

 constantly in the Liassic Exlracrinus, and in the recent Penta- 

 crinidae and Comatuhv ; and I see no reason to believe that the 

 minute interradials of Reteocrinus are in any way different from 

 those of the Neocrinoids. But I regard them as perisomic plates, 

 continuous with those of the disk above, which was in no sense a 

 vault like that of the Actinocrinidae." 



According to this, if we understand him correctly, the calyx in 

 the Reteoorinidae consisted only of basals, underbasals and radials, 

 which latter throughout their full length were enclosed by peri- 

 somic plates. This would be a very peculiar condition for one of 

 the earliest known Crinoids, if we admit that the Paheocrinoids 

 are developed from a lower morphological level than the Neocri- 

 noidea. In support of it Carpenter has no other proof than a 

 superficial resemblance in the form of the plates. There is 

 nothing to show that any of the plates were perforated, there is 

 no external mouth, no food grooves, nor plates that could possibly 

 be considered as covering pieces. All the plates dorsally and 

 ventially, even those extending to the free rays, have the same 

 irregular arrangement. The ventral surface of Reteocrinus is 

 almost identical with that of Glyptocrinus decadactylus, which 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



S. A. .Miller (Cinein. Soc. Nat. Hist., Dec, 1883), decribes as fol- 

 lows: " It is composed of numerous polygonal plates. Those in 

 the central part are the larger ones, and each of these bears a 

 central tubercle, which is sometimes prolonged so as to be desig- 

 nated a spine. Toward the margin, or rather following the undu- 

 lations toward the intertertiary areas, the plates are smaller and 

 possessed of slight convexity. They unite in the depressions in 

 the intertertiary areas with the plates of the calyx, or rather the 

 interprimarv radials graduate through the intersecondaries and 

 intertertiaries to the plates of the vault without any line of sepa- 

 ration. The plates become smaller as they approach the inner 

 face of the arms, over the swelling undulations of the vault, and 

 continuing to decrease in size, form a somewhat granular, con- 

 tinuous integument, that covers the ambulacra! furrows. This 

 continuation of the vault up the inner side of the arms, has been 

 observed for a distance of an inch above the vault, and, no doubt, 

 extended as far as the arm furrow itself." 



We have carefully examined Miller's original in Dr. R. M. 

 Byrne's collection, and can attest the correctness of his descrip- 

 tion. The decrease in the size of the plates toward the periphery, 

 which evidently led Carpenter to consider those plates as an out- 

 growth from the oral side, is readily explained by the enormous 

 accumulation of plates from the interradial, interaxillaiy and 

 interbrachial series, which terminate soon after entering the ven- 

 tral side, or else diminish in width. That the vault in Glypto- 

 crinus and Reteocrinus extends over the full length of the arms, 

 as suggested by Miller, and that only their large pinnules had 

 open food grooves, is at least doubtful, although it may be pos- 

 sible, as such is the case in the allied genus Melocrinus, in which, 

 however, the pinnule-like arms are provided with extra pinnules. 



Carpenter attaches considerable importance to our incidental 

 remark, " that the peculiar depressed state of the interradial and 

 interaxillary areas of Reteocrinus, the irregularity in the arrange- 

 ment of their plates, suggests the possibility that those parts 

 were adapted to expansion by the animal." And he makes use 

 of this as an argument in favor of his theory that the ventral 

 plates of Reteocrinus, like those of the Ichthyocrinidre, represent 

 " the plated perisome of the Neocrinoids." That the test of 

 Reteocrinus was in any way pliable, has been given up }>y us 

 entirely, nor do we believe that the pliable test of the Ichthyo- 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



crinidae bore any relation to the disk of recent Crinoids, but we 

 believe, as strongly as ever, thai their ventral surface was covered 

 In a vault. A vault-paved by small irregular pieces, and folded 



like the disk of recent Crinoids, with elevations following the food 

 grooves, is found not only in Glyptocrinus and Reteocrinus, but 

 also among t he later Actinocrinidse. The surface elevations, which 

 form natural grooves at the inner floor, represent more or less 

 open galleries, which in other forms are produced by a thickening 

 of the plates along the inner floor. Miller's description of the 

 vault of Glyptocrinus would apply equally well to Physetocrinus 

 reticulatus which, as we know from actual observation, has a vault 

 and a well-developed disk underneath. An open disk represents 

 a higher form in the developmental history of the Crinoids, than 

 a closed one. This is shown by Cyathocrinus, in which the vault 

 is gradually replaced by the disk, and it is very improbable that 

 the Eleteocrinidae, which did not survive the Lower Silurian age, 

 attained a higher organization than most of the Carboniferous 

 Actinocrinidse. 



According to Carpenter (Chall. Rep., p. 172), "the vault of 

 Actinocrinus has been developed on the left larval antimer, in 

 exactly the same wa} r as the apical or abactinal system is devel- 

 oped on the right; but the oral system, instead of being limited 

 to five oral plates, as in Neocrinoids, reached a very extensive 

 development, so that in its completest form it represents such a 

 parallel to the apical or abactinal system as is to-be met with in 

 no other Crinoid." A similar view was expressed by us when we 

 wrote Part II of this Revision, but we believe the same thing 

 might be said of other Actinocrinidse and all Platycrinidse and 

 Rhodocrinidse. 



Carpenter, as we have stated, applies the term " vault "to all 

 actinal plates covering the disk and tentacular vestibule, and in 

 most of the Actinocrinidse he regards all interradial plates of the 

 ventral side as t he representatives of the interradials at the dorsal 

 side. However, in a few Actinocrinidse and in the Platycrinidse, 

 Rhodocrinidse and allied groups, he restricts the vault to the 

 central piece, proximals and radial dome plates if such are 

 present, and all other ventral plates he takes to be perisomie. In 

 the Cyathocrinidae and Blastoidea lie limits the vault to the sum- 

 mit plates ; but their interradials, although located ventrally, are 

 said to be abactinal. These interpretations, if correct, would 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



suggest, either that the condition of the ventral surface is of 

 comparatively little value for classificatory purposes, or that 

 certain forms, which have heretofore been described under Actino- 

 crinus, are structurally very different, and should be referred to 

 remote groups. It would further prove, if the upper interradial 

 plates in Platycrinus were anambulacral pieces — because some of 

 the covering pieces are interposed between them — that the higher 

 interradials of Actinocrinus stellatus, which are in the same con- 

 dition, are perisomic, and vice versa those of certain Platycrinida' 

 vault plates ; indeed, that the very same plates which in the youn» 

 Platycrinoid represent vault pieces, are perisomic in the adult. 



Carpenter will admit that the minute temporaiy interradials, 

 which Sir Wyville Thomson observed in the larva of Antedon, 

 are the homologues of the large and permanent calyx interradials 

 in the Cyathocrinidae. In this group, in which the rays are free 

 from the first radial, the interradials, for want of any other lateral 

 support, join with each other, and thereby attain their ventral 

 position ; while in the adult Actinocrinidae and Rhodocrinida\ 

 which have numerous radial and interradial plates, the first inter- 

 radials naturally had to be located dorsally. The increase of 

 interradial plates took place gradually in the growing animal and 

 from that we may reasonably suggest that these Crinoids at one 

 time in their larval state possessed but five single interradials 

 which met over the disk ventrally,as in the case of Cyathocrinus 

 alutaceus. At that time the 3 T oung Actinocrinus was essentially 

 in the condition Of a young Antedon in which the interradials had 

 made their appearance, however the interradials of the Palseo- 

 crinoid were more fully developed. If now Allagecrinus and 

 Haplocririus, as suggested by Carpenter, represent palaiontologi- 

 callv a very early stage of the larva of Antedon, we should like 

 to know something about the condition of the interradial plates 

 in those genera. Are they as yet contrary to all other Palaeo- 

 crinoidea altogether unrepresented, or here already resorbed by 

 the animal ? Both genera have five plates, which occupy the very 

 same position as the interradials of Cyathocrinus alutaceus, and 

 Cyathocrinus Gilesi (PL -4, fig. 2). Why should these be orals. 

 when there is another structure covering the tentacular vestibule 

 which may represent them, and which, on the other hand, would 

 be totally unrepresented in the Antedon larva and in all other 

 Echinoderms ? 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



The phylogenetic evidence indicates clearly that the inter radial 



element take- a most prominent part in the composition of the 

 Palaeocrinoidea, and we hope we have proved that these plates 

 were much more extravagantly developed in their earlier type-;. 

 In Silurian genera they extended over the whole peristome, or 

 the greater part of it. Gradually the summit plates made their 

 appearance, evidently pushed out from beneath, afterwards the 

 covering pieces of the ambulacra, and at last also the an am- 

 bulacra! plates. Even in the Cyathocrinidae, in which the ven- 

 tral structure attained a higher form than in any other group, 

 with the exception, perhaps, of the Poteriocrinidse and Encrinidae, 

 interradials are not only present, but they occupy the greater 

 portion of the ventral side, and even in those genera in which, 

 perhaps, they were resorbed before the Crinoid reached maturity, 

 they had been previously well developed. Under the weight of 

 this evidence, is it probable that Haplocrinus and AUagecrinus, 

 which are said to be " permanently in the condition of a very 

 early larva "' (Chall. Rep., p. 157), alone among all Palaeocri- 

 noidea, should have no interradial plates, and that the plates 

 which occupy their position in these two genera are "oral 

 plates ?" We, at least, wish to be excused if we doubt it. Upon 

 palaeontological grounds we expect to find in the j^ounger stages 

 of the Palaeocrinoid the oral S} r stem feebly, the interradial sj'stem 

 extravagantly developed, while, according to Carpenter's inter- 

 pretation of the plates, in the Palaeocrinoid larva, the entire 

 ventral surface from the radials up would be oral, i. e, actinal. 



From an embryological standpoint also, Carpenter's interpre- 

 tation meets with very serious objections. If Haplocrinus rep- 

 resents, as he asserts, a very early stage in Crinoid ontogeny, 

 before the opening of the tentacular vestibule to the exterior, we 

 should like to know how the central piece, the so-called orocen- 

 tral of Carpenter, made its appearance in the Palaeocrinoid. It 

 is not very probable that this plate was present in the earl}- 

 larva, or it would certainly be represented in the larva of the 

 Neocrinoid at the time the oral pyramid was closed. Carpenter 

 claims that it was even unrepresented in Allagecririus, and that 

 the oral pole was closed only by oral plates. This would suggest 

 that it was introduced either by means of a partial resorption of 

 I he " oral " pyramid, or ly the opening of its plates. The former 



is exceedingly doubtful, while the latter is clearly not the case in 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 255 



Haplocrinus nor other Palaeocrinoidea, for the proximals which 

 Carpenter takes to be the representatives of the orals, are per- 

 manently closed, with the exception of Coccocrinus, in which the 

 "orals " are said to be parted, bnt in which the central plate is 

 wanting. 



Another difficulty is offered by the fact that the so-called 

 " oral " plates are pierced b} r the anal opening, a structure which 

 certainly has no parallel among recent Crinoids. 



Allagecrinus was described by Etheridge and Carpenter (Ann. 

 and Mag. Nat. Hist., April, 1881) as without central piece, and 

 the latter has since informed us, that he could not identify any 

 such plate on re-examining the specimens. This, however, does 

 not prove that it was wanting, for we must bear in mind that 

 Allagecrinus Austinii is an almost microscopic form, not larger 

 than a coarse grain of sand. The central piece was overlooked 

 by the European naturalists, in the much larger Haplocrinus. 

 Goldfuss, however, observed in (Eugeniacrinites) Haplocrinus 

 mespiliformis (Petref. Germ., i, p. 214) " ein rundes Knopfchen 

 im Scheitelpunkt," and it is very significant that Etheridge and 

 Carpenter also found in Allagecrinus " at the central end of one 

 or more of the plates faint tubercles," for which, according to 

 their own statement, " they can find no explanation." Whether 

 these represent the tubercles which we discovered upon the face 

 of the interraclials in Cyathocrinus multiradiatus (PI. 4. fig. 2), 

 we are of course not prepared to assert with certainty, but it is 

 worthy of note that Carpenter regards the latter " as the conical 

 openings in Granatocrinus Norivordi^ 1 and it is very possible 

 that they are the same thing in all three groups, w 7 hich would 

 prove better than anything else, that the plates bearing them are 

 not orals but interradials. The tubercles in Allagecrinus (com- 

 pare Ann. and Mag., ser. 5, vol. 7, PI. xvi, figs. 3 &, 4, 5 and lb), 

 are evidently of structural value, but as there is but one figured, 

 although the description speaks of one to each plate, and this is 

 located laterally in one specimen and centrally in the other, all 

 interpretations by us must necessarily be more or less problemat- 

 ical. We are inclined, however, to believe that the lateral one (fig. 

 5), in analogy with Haplocrinus, represents the anal opening, i. e. 



1 This suggestion was made by Dr. P. Herb. Carpenter in his letter of 

 Decembi r 26, after sending him our figures, and he kindly permitted us to 

 make use of it in our writings. 




25fi PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



the larger tubercle in Granatocrinus, and the central one, if it 

 exists :it all, the central piece; but whether this plate is exposed 

 or not, we believe it was represented in the Crinoid, and if it was 

 not inserted between the interradials, it was subtegminal, under- 

 neath them. 



In the later stages of Allagecrinns, according to Carpenter 

 and Etheridge (p. 285), the so-called "orals" are plaeed "at the 

 centre of the dome, in close contact laterally, so that no opening- 

 is visible, but their basal angles are more or less truncated, 

 leaving a superficial gap between every pair of plates, which 

 corresponds in position with the articular facet on the subjacent 

 radial." " The interior of this gap, however, is filled up by the 

 deeper portion of the oral plates." This structure, we admit, 

 indicates that possibly at a more advanced stage of the Crinoid, 

 the plates had separated laterally, similar to the orals in the 

 recent Holopus. This, however, which we believe was really the 

 case in Coccocrinus, dbes not prove that the plates of the two 

 groups are homologous, as similar modifications take place among 

 the interradials in the Pahcocrinoidea, or as we should say, take 

 place in the earlier Crinoids exclusively in the interradials, while 

 the tentacular vestibule remains perfectly closed. In the case of 

 Allagecrinus, the opening out of the plates toward the arm bases, 

 indicates, in our opinion, that the Crinoid is approaching the 

 stage of a Platycrinoid, in which the covering plates part the 

 interradials and enter the vault; previous to the later Cyatho- 

 crinoid stage, in which the whole ambulacral skeleton covers the 

 interradials. Coccocrinus represents a transition form between 

 the two former, the interradials being separated from one another, 

 forming open clefts with the ambulacra at their bottom. 



The ventral side of Coccocrinus rosaceus in the best-preserved 

 specimens consists of ten plates, all strictly intcrradial in posi- 

 tion, arranged in live series, which are not in contact laterally 

 nor centrally, leaving live rather conspicuous clefts and a central 

 opening. The outer plate of each series is smaller, the inner 

 resting upon the truncate face of the other. The inner plate at 

 the azygous side is larger, and the anal opening excavated along 

 the suture between the two plates, extending as deeply into the 

 inner as into the outer plate. There are no special anal piece-, 

 neither dorsally nor Neutrally. 



There is no difference of opinion as to the outer plates, whi< h 




1885.] Natural sciences of Philadelphia. 257 



all recognize as interradials ; the inner ones, however, were desig- 

 nated by Roemer as " kleine interradiale Stiicke, welclie von dem 

 Mittelpunkte der Scheitelrlache zu den Armeu verlaufen." 

 Schultze called them " Scheitelstiicke," Zittel and De Loriol 

 " orals," and all speak of open ambulacral furrows leading to the 

 arms, and of an external mouth. The latter two writers refer the 

 genus to the Haplocrinidse, Schultze to the Platycrinidae. Car- 

 penter (Chall. Rep., p. 103), regards Goccocrinus, " like the recent 

 Holopus, to be permanently in the condition of a Crinoid larva in 

 which the orals have not yet moved away from the raclials, 

 though separated from one another." In the interpretation of 

 the plates he agrees with Zittel, De Loriol and Allman. 



A similar interpretation was given by us in our generic descrip- 

 tion in Part II, when we took the plates of the inner ring to be 

 identical with the so-called " orals " of Gyathocrinus, but this has 

 been abandoned after finding the latter plates to be interradials, 

 and the}' are now regarded by us as secondary interradial plates. 

 When we adopted Zittel's interpretation, we were misled by the 

 superficial resemblance to the oral pieces in the recent genus 

 Hyocrinus, overlooking the fact that the latter rest within a belt 

 of perisomic pieces, in place of interradials in the former. Gocco- 

 crinus bacca, as seen by Roemer 's figure (Fauna West. Tenn., PI. 

 4, fig. 5 c), has three interradials arranged transversely as in the 

 Platycrinidae, the outer ones resting against the secondary 

 radials. The presence of higher interradials in this species is 

 sufficient to prove satisfactorily that the genus Goccocrinus is no 

 Haplocrinite, and that it does not even go with the Inadunata. 

 It is possible that Goccocrinus rosaceus had exceptionally but 

 one interradial within the first row, but as a member of the 

 Camarata it must have possessed higher interradials, like other 

 Palaeocrinoids in which the interradials come in contact with the 

 higher radials, contrary to the Inadunata, which have, as a rule, 

 a single interradial plate. 



We doubt if even Carpenter, although he is inclined to accept 

 the upper series of interradials in Platycrinus as anambulacral 

 plates, will go so far after examining our diagrams, as to include 

 among these the lateral plates of the proximal row, either in 

 Platycrinus or Goccocrinus, which he overlooked in both genera. 

 Goccocrinus is certainly not in the same morphological condition 

 as Holopus, even admitting, which we do not, that the upper 



18 




258 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



interratlial plates were orals. In the latter genus, the orals rest 

 against the radials, and the ambulacra are exposed only along the 

 arms. In Coccocrinus, however, the so-called " orals " abut with 

 their outer ends against the interradials, and the clefts from the 

 " orals," in place of entering the arms, are continued between the 

 interradial plates. 



In Part II, p. 58, we asserted that the clefts along both plates 

 were probably filled in the animal by alternate (covering) pieces, 

 and the summit openings by dome plates ; although regarding at 

 that time the inner circlet of interradials as oral pieces. We 

 admit that Carpenter is right in asserting that the existence of 

 covering plates between the orals is contrary to the structure 

 of recent Crinoids, and at variance with the nature of oral 

 plates generally ; but considering, as we do now, that the inner 

 as well as the outer plates are interradials, this objection loses 

 its force, since covering plates are found between interradials in 

 most of the Platycrinidse. Yet the case of Coccocrinus is some- 

 what different from that of an ordinary Platycrinoid, which 

 together with covering pieces has well-developed summit plates, 

 of which no trace has been found in any of the specimens of 

 Coccocrinus. Carpenter thinks that in Coccocrinus the central 

 piece was unrepresented, that its five inner interradials are ho- 

 mologous with the six proximals of Platycrinus, and that the 

 tentacular vestibule with the mouth at the bottom was exposed 

 to view. This interpretation is a natural consequence of his 

 oral theory, and shows still more forcibly the difficulties of 

 his position. Not only has he to admit a homology of five 

 plates to six, but that in a Silurian genus mouth and food 

 grooves were not covered. This assumption, which represents 

 an enormous advance in the development of the group, not 

 attained by any other Palseocrinoid, is alone sufficient to over- 

 throw his whole theory, and this the more when applied to a 

 genus which decidedly represents a low stage among these 

 Crinoids. What is left to make Coccocrinus a Palaeocrinoid ? 

 Even the asymmetry, which, according to Carpenter, is one of 

 the best characters for separating the older and later Crinoids, 

 is rather problematical, as it has no special anal plate. 



Admitting that the inner plates in Coccocrinus are secondary 

 interradials and not proximals, we have to account for thr ab- 

 sence of i hese plates in this case. That the summil plates, which 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



are so universally represented throughout this group, should be 

 totally absent in this genus, seems to us not very probable. 

 Yet the central opening which should contain them is so small, 

 compared -with the space taken up by them in Platycriniis-am\ 

 allied forms, that it seems almost impossible to have been occu- 

 pied by seven or more plates. Besides, there is not a single 

 instance known to us, in which either the summit plates or the 

 covering pieces were obliterated in the specimen, leaving at the 

 same time the interradials in position, as we find it in all these 

 specimens. This leads us to the conclusion that in Coccocrinus, 

 as in Platycrinus, the five interradial series had been separated 

 laterally to their full length, but that the disk covered by the 

 summit plates had not been raised to the surface as in that genus, 

 leaving an open gap and lateral clefts permanently as in Holopus, 

 with the exception, however, that in the latter genus the clefts 

 are formed between the orals. According to our interpretation, 

 Coccocrinus represents phylogeneticalby a transition form between 

 Culicocrinus, in which the interradials are still closed and its 

 summit plates and covering pieces subtegminal, and Platycrinus 

 in which they are incorporated with the calyx. This is the only 

 explanation which meets all difficulties, and brings these genera, 

 with regard to the distribution of the plates, under the same rule 

 with the other Palseocrinoids. 



The genus Symbathocrinus is morphologically a much higher 

 form than either Coccocrinus or Haplocrinus, not only because 

 it had better developed arms, but also well developed summit 

 plates. Its summit had never been observed until we removed 

 the arms in ve^ perfect specimens, and succeeded in laying 

 bare the whole ventral surface. It consists of eight plates, 

 four large proximals, which, together with three other plates, 

 along the azygous side, form a closed ring around a very con- 

 spicuous central piece, and these again are enclosed by ten or 

 more smaller pieces, which rest upon the highly elevated articular 

 facets of the radials. 



These outer plates (there may be one or two additional ones 

 toward the azygous side) are smaller than the proximals ; five of 

 them are placed radially, the others interradially. In the first 

 specimen which we dissected, and which was sent to Dr. Carpenter 

 for stud}-, the lateral sutures between the smaller plates could not 

 be distinguished. That plates were interposed between the radials 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



and proximals (his orals) was clearly shown, and was also noticed 

 by him in his letter. We were, therefore, somewhat surprised 

 when we found them ignored in his discussion, and observed his 

 statement that " the so-called apical dome plates rest directly 

 upon the upper edges of the articular faces." We regret this the 

 more, as we should like to know whether he regards them as calyx 

 or perisomic plates. In our opinion they cannot be perisomic, as 

 five of them have a strictly radial position. Nor do we believe 

 that the five radial openings which we at first thought we observed 

 along the upper angle of these plates, at their juncture with the 

 proximals, are ambulacral or arm openings, as Carpenter suggests. 

 We are inclined to take them for mere depressions along the 

 suture, as it is very improbable that the ambulacra in proceeding 

 to the arms passed over these plates. We regard the five radial 

 pieces as radial dome plates, and the alternate ones as interradials. 

 Carpenter also omits to state whether the " orals " in Symbatho- 

 crinus consist of live or six pieces. That there are more than 

 five is clearly seen in the specimen which he examined, although 

 the exact number could not be ascertained. Other specimens, 

 however, which we have since prepared (PI. 4, figs. 9, 10), prove 

 clearly that there are seven pieces. This is morphologically of 

 the utmost importance, as showing that the summit structure of 

 Symbathocrimis is altogether different from that of Haplocrinus 

 or Bhizocrinus, with which Carpenter identifies it, and it is more 

 like that of Platycrinus. We shall return to this when we take 

 up the oral plates. 



As a result of the foregoing observations, we draw the follow- 

 ing conclusions, viz.: — 



1. Interradials are represented in all groups of the Palaeocri- 

 noidea. They were early developed in the larva, attained at once 

 large proportions, and persisted through life or were resorbed on 

 approaching maturity. 



2. They extend invariably to the proximals, or even cover them 

 completeby. 



3. They are more extravagantly developed in the earlier 

 groups, not always in number, but by extending over compara- 

 tively larger space. 



4. In all groups in which the arms are free from the first 

 radials, they are represented by only five single plates, and these 

 are located ventrally. Groups with two or more radials have 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 261 



two at least, and the number increases in proportion to the 

 increase of the radials, by means of which the lower series attain 

 gradually a dorsal position. 



D. The Anal Plates and Anal Tube. 



It has been a general practice to regard all plates of the 

 azygous interradius as anal plates. From a strictly morpholog- 

 ical standpoint this is not correct, as comparatively few of these 

 plates are connected with the anal aperture, although all of them are 

 more or less affected by it. Properly speaking, in analogy with 

 recent Crinoids. there is but one true anal plate, and the succeed- 

 ing pieces are either interradials, or they constitute parts of the 

 anal tube, which, in the growing animal, by the increase of inter- 

 radials, were incorporated into the test. The latter plates, as 

 representing parts of the calyx, which serve the same purpose 

 as the true anal piece, might be very appropriately distinguished as 

 "higher" anal plates, but unfortunately in many groups it is 

 almost impossible to separate them from the interradials. A 

 discrimination, however, should be made wherever it is prac- 

 ticable. 



In the Pentacrinoid larva of Antedon rosacea, according to Dr. 

 W. B. Carpenter (Philos. Trans. Royal Soc. London, pp. 726— 

 747), the anal plate makes its appearance almost contempo- 

 raneously with the first radials, and stands on a level with them. 

 It is at first a rather irregular plate, which somewhat later takes 

 an elliptic form, and is gradually lifted out from between the 

 radials, and developed into a conspicuous funnel, which disap- 

 pears at the end of Pentacrinoid life, being removed b} r resorption. 



The earlier stages of the anal plates in the Palseocrinoidea are 

 onty known from phylogenetic evidence, but this shows that the 

 modifications which they undergo in palreontological times cor- 

 respond closely with those of the growing Pentacrinoid. In the 

 Inadunata, which have closer analogies with the Neocrinoidea 

 than the other two groups, and which like them have but a single 

 anal plate, the latter can be traced from its first appearance in 

 the Silurian to its total resorption in the Carboniferous and 

 Trias, and the various conditions of development, as thus repre- 

 sented, form excellent characters for generic distinction. Among 

 the earliest Inadunata, however, we find a transition state which 

 either is unrepresented, or has not been recognized in the Penta- 




2fi2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



crinoid. We refer to the development of the anal plate from the 

 so-called azygous piece. That a plate which takes such an im- 

 portant part in the phylogeny of this group should be altogether 

 unrepresented in the young Neocrinoid, seems to us somewhat 

 doubtful, the more so as the Neocrinoidea are in all probability 

 the pala?ontological successors, if not the linear descendants, of 

 the Inadunata. Possibly the undivided azygous plate, as repre- 

 sented in Baerocrinu8, has been overlooked in the early larva, 

 and this would not be surprising, as the plate occupies the posi- 

 tion, and has very nearly the form of an ordinary first radial. 



In our chapter on the radials we have already alluded to the 

 azygous piece, and expressed our conviction that its gradual 

 resorption gave origin, not only to the right posterior radial, but 

 also to the anal plate. We have shown that in Haplocrinus, a 

 close ally of Baerocrinus, the fifth radial is somewhat rudimen- 

 tarily represented by a small trigonal piece occupying the right 

 upper corner ; that this genus, as yet, had no anal plate, the left 

 corner of the azygous piece being still intact ; that in Hybocrinus 

 the left side of the plate was taken up b}' a small anal, and the 

 azygous piece proportionally diminished in size ; that in the 

 succeeding stages, which arc typified by Iocrinus, Dendrocrinus, 

 Homocrinus, the size of the anal plate gradually increased as the 

 azygous piece diminished; and that at last in Cyatfiocrinus 

 the latter plate was entirely removed, and the anal plate took the 

 position of that in the larva of Antedon. These modifications 

 were introduced, as a general rule, in geological succession, but 

 not always uniformly, for in some groups the development went 

 on more rapidly than in others. Such a rapid development took 

 place in Gyathocrinus, which existed already in the Silurian, 

 although attaining its maximum representation in the Carbon- 

 iferous ; while in most of the Poteriocrinida:, which eminently 

 belong to the Carboniferous, the very opposite is observed. The 

 most remarkable deviation in this respect is shown by the sym- 

 metrical Silurian genus Oodiacrinus, which apparently has 

 neither azygous nor ana! plate. 



The final resorption of both plates is best shown in the 

 Poteriocrinidse. 1 u Poteriocrinus, Eupachycrin us and Zeacrin us, 

 the azygous plate is comparatively well developed, but com- 

 pletely pushed OUt of the radial position which it had previously 

 occupied, in these genera the anal plate is -mall, and the first 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF rUILADELPHI A. 263 



plate of the tube forms a part of the calyx. The allied Graphio- 

 crinus, however, has no azygous plate, and the posterior basal, 

 which is somewhat elongate, supports upon its truncate upper 

 end only an anal plate. In Ceriocrinus, which is in a similar 

 condition, the anal plate is partly lifted out from between the 

 radials, and extends half way beyond the articular faces of these 

 plates. In Erisocrinus, the anal plate is not only smaller, but 

 rests wholly upon the radials, beyond the limits of the dorsal 

 cup. Finally in Encrinus, this plate seems to have been entirely 

 removed in the adult. We have a specimen of Encrinus lilii- 

 formis only an inch in length, including the arms, which contains 

 between the arms a row of four conspicuous, slightly convex 

 plates, the upper one triangular, which we regard as plates of 

 an anal tube. This discovery is of some importance, as it tends 

 to prove that Encrinus is not a Neocrinoid, but a highly-developed 

 Poteriocrinoid. 



In the Silurian Triacrinus and Pisocrinus, which we arrange 

 under the Symbathocrinidse, we find dorsally no anal plate, but 

 simply an azygous piece. This supports both posterior radials, 

 which are less than half as large as the two antero-lateral ones, 

 and join laterally. In the Carboniferous genus Symbathocrinus, 

 however, the azygous plate is wanting, the radials are almost 

 equally developed, and these support a small anal piece. In the 

 allied Stortingocrinus and in Stylocrinus (Symbathocrinus of 

 Miller and Schultze), although exclusively Devonian genera, we 

 find neither azygous nor anal plate, but Phimocrinus, like Sym- 

 bathocrinus, possessed a large anal aperture between the highly 

 extended articular facets of the radials, and may have had an 

 anal plate. Whether the summit plates of the two former genera 

 had reached the advanced state of Symbathocrinus, or were } r et 

 in the condition of Haplocrinus, cannot be ascertained from any 

 of the specimens, but it may well be doubted. In Eaplocrinus 

 the anal opening is pierced through one of the interradials, and 

 the same may be the case in Stortingocrinus and Pisocrinus. In 

 Coccocrinus and Gulicocrinus, the anus is located between the 

 first and second radials, piercing the one as much as the other ; 

 in Platycrinus above the first interradial, being separated from 

 the proximals by a special anal plate. 



It has been stated that the Inadunata possess no higher orders 

 of anal pieces, and that the plates succeeding the first, form a 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



part of the tube. They do not all, however, have the tube well 

 developed, and in some of them it is altogether unrepresented. 

 Haplocrinus has a simple anal opening, and herein deviates 

 from most of the other genera of this group. The Hybocrinidre 

 and Cyathocrinus alutaceus have only a short protuberance, com- 

 posed of small plates. 



Tlic simplest tube is found in Catillocrinus and Calceocrinus 

 (PI. 5, figs. 15, 16), in which it consists of a single row of very 

 large solid plates, transversely curved like an arm-joint, with a 

 semicircular groove along the ventral side. This groove, which 

 extends from the base of the tube to its distal end, is open in all 

 our specimens. A somewhat similar tube occurs in Symba/In). 

 crinus, in which the proximal plates at the posterior side are 

 considerably thicker than those upon the other sides. 



More important from a morphological standpoint, is the ventral 

 tube of the Heterocrinidse, Anomalocrinida- and some Silurian 

 C3"athocrinoid genera in which the anal piece, as in Catillocrinus, 

 is succeeded by a row of heavy curved plates, which on the dorsal 

 side pass up to the end of the tube. These plates are bordered 

 laterally by several rows of delicate pieces, pierced by pores or 

 slits along their sides, the whole forming a sac-like appendage. 

 It is very evident that this row of dorsal plates is identical with 

 that of Catillocrinus and Calceocrinus, and also that the ventral 

 side of the tube in the latter two genera was closed by plates in 

 :i similar way. 



A still higher form is represented l>\ the later Cyathocrinidse, 

 which have no such row of dorsal plates, the entire sac being com- 

 posed of delicate pieces. Most of these are perforated with pores, 

 with the exception of the proximal rows of plates dorsally, which 

 are solid, and also frequently those crowning the distal end; 

 while those facing the ventral side are more or less perforated. 

 Among the earlier Poteriocrinida-, the sac is large, either cylin- 

 drical, club-shaped, conical or balloon-shaped, and it often extends 

 beyond the tips of the arms. In the later Poteriocrinidae, how- 

 ever, the sac dwindles down to a short cone, even in the asym- 

 metrical EujMchycrirnis, and it lias apparently no pores, at least 

 not dorsally. 



In most of the Camarata the anal plate is placed between the 

 first radials, and occupies the lower portion of the dorsal cup. 

 in the Rhodocrinkhe, in which the first interradials alternate with 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



the first radials, the posterior interradial takes the functions of 

 the anal plate, and the second order of interradials, which consists 

 of two pieces, generally contains the second anal with additional 

 plates above. The anals, as a general rule, are arranged longi- 

 tudinally, hut the row is often interrupted by intervening inter- 

 radials. In Reteocrinus, in which the interradial series consists 

 of small irregular pieces, the posterior side is divided equally by 

 a vertical row of large convex anals, arranged like the plates 

 which constitute the dorsal side in the tube of Catillocrinus. 

 The only essential difference between the two structures is that 

 the plates in the latter form a free appendage, similar to that of 

 Thaumatocrinus, while those of Reteocrinus and Xenocrinus are 

 incorporated into the calyx. 



All typical Actinocrinidse, Glyptasteridae, Barrandeocrinidre, 

 Acrocrinidse and Hexacrinidae have a special anal plate between 

 their first radials, and in most of them the first posterior inter- 

 radial is split into two halves to receive the second anal plate. 

 However, in Actinocrinus and allied genera which we separated 

 under Actinocrinites, the second anal is pushed up to the line of 

 the secondary interradials, although the first interradial, as in the 

 other groups, is divided. The splitting of the first interradial for 

 the reception of an anal piece, to which we have alluded, is of the 

 utmost importance for the study of the summit plates, as we find 

 the same thing there repeated among the proximals. 



In the Meloerinidae the first interradials are undivided, and 

 in most of them the lower anal plate is inserted between the two 

 secondary interradials ; in others, however, which have no anals 

 within the dorsal cup, the anals commence at the equatorial zone. 

 In the Platycrinidae the first interradial of the posterior side is 

 considerably larger, and evidently consolidated with the first anal 

 plate. In the Calyptocrinidae, finally, the whole calyx, dorsally 

 and ventrally, is strictly symmetrical, the anus central, and the 

 only asymmetry in their structure is found among basals and 

 proximals. 



The anal opening in all Camarata is located at the distal end 

 of the tube, whether this terminates within the calyx or is ex- 

 tended into a proboscis, and its position is more or less lateral, 

 except in the Calyptocrinidae in which it penetrates the central 

 piece. The plates composing the tube of the Camarata are ab- 

 actinal, and form a part of the posterior interradial series ; they 




266 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



are strong, rigid, without pores, are suturally connected, and their 

 arrangement is irregular. This tube differs essentially from the 

 ventral sac, which forms a part of the disk, and is composed of 

 anambulacral plates, into which the plates of the abactinal tube 

 arc incorporated, in a similar manner as the higher radials and 

 proximal pinnules are into the disk of the Neocrinoidea. More- 

 over, the ventral sac does not contain the anal aperture, which is 

 general^ located within the disk. For further consideration of 

 this organ we refer to our chapter on the perisomic plates. 



Among the Articulata, the Crotalocrinidae and Cleiocrinidoe 

 have an anal plate in lateral contact with the radials. The same 

 is the case in the Ichthyocrinidse, with the exception of Ichthyo- 

 crinas, which has dorsally no anal plate and generally no inter- 

 radials. Pycnosaccus, Calpiocrinus, Homalocrinus, Lecano- 

 crinus, Gnorimocrinus and Mespilocrinus have even an azygous 

 piece, which is absent in Anisocrinus, Taxocrinus, Onycho- 

 crinus, Forbesiocrinus and Lithocrinus. An anal appendage has 

 been observed only in Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus, located 

 ventrally, close to the periphery. In the former it consists of a 

 tube composed of eight vertical rows of heavy quadrangular 

 pieces, connected by suture. In Enallocrinus its form is 

 unknown. 



In Part I we described Taxocrinus, Onychocrinns and Gnori- 

 mocrinus as having a small lateral tube resting upon the first 

 anal plate. To this Dr. P. H. Carpenter objected in his paper 

 on Thaumatocrinus (Philos. Trans. Royal Soc, 1884, pt. iii, p. 

 928). He admitted " that the arm-like series supported the lower 

 portion of the anal interradius," but doubted " that the plates 

 had been hollowed out on their inner side for the reception of 

 the hind-gut," which " undoubtedly opened to the exterior at a 

 higher level through a regular anal tube, just as in other Crinoids." 

 These objections are well founded, and we are now fully con- 

 vinced that those plates were bordered laterally by interradial 

 pieces as in Reteocrinus. 



The Plates of the Actinal System. 



A. The Summit Plates. 



The summit plates consist of the actinal plates, overlying and 



immediately surrounding the peristome. For these plates we 



have heretofore proposed the name " apical dome plates," but 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 267 



finding its application somewhat cumbersome, as the word 

 " apical " is used in a different sense, we have abandoned it. The 

 summit plates are represented in the PaUvoerinoidea by the central 

 piece, the six or more so-called proximate, and the radial dome 

 plates; in the Neocrinoidea, by the oral plates alone. 



The orals constitute important elements in the ontogeny of 

 recent Crinoids. They appear at first in the form of a closed 

 pyramid, composed of five triangular plates. 



According to Dr. P. H. Carpenter (Chall. Rep., p. 71), " their 

 rudiments appear in the free-swimming larva simultaneously with 

 those of the basals, which are developed spirally round the right 

 peritoneal tube ; while the orals appear in a similar spiral around 

 the left one. The skeleton is at first limited entirely to these 

 two rings of plates, the edges of which meet around the equator 

 of the growing cup, though they ultimately become separated by 

 the appearance of the radials between them. At the base of the 

 closed pjn-amid formed by the oral plates is the upper portion of 

 the larval body, in the centre of which the opening of the mouth 

 is formed. . . . At a certain period of development, the five 

 valves of this oral pyramid gradually separate so as to open the 

 mouth to the exterior, and allow the protrusion of the tentacles, 

 while the floor of the original tentacular vestibule, with the 

 mouth in its centre, becomes the peristome of the growing 

 Crinoid." Afterwards the orals become " completely separated 

 from the basals and radials by the equatorial perisome and are 

 relatively carried inwards, while the second radials project some- 

 what outwards. . . . The orals are thus left as a circlet of five 

 separate plates protecting the peristome in the centre of the 

 upper surface of the disk." In all Pentacrinidse and also in the 

 Comatulre, with the single exception of Thaumatocrinus, the orals 

 eventually undergo a process of resorption, while in Ehizocrinus, 

 HyocrinuS) HoIojjus and Thaumatocrinus, the}' persist through 

 life. 



Nothing is known of the orals in Mesozoic Crinoids. 



That the oi'als, which assume such an early prominence in the 

 ontogeii3 T of the later Crinoids, should be unrepresented in 

 paheozoic ones, seems scarcely possible. This has been conceded 

 by various writers, but there is, as yet, much difference of opinion 

 as to the plates which represent them. 



The first writer who referred to oral plates in palaeozoic 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Crinoids was Prof. Allman. He suggested an analogy between 

 the transition stage of Antedon and the permanent condition of 

 Haplocrinu8 f Coccocrinus, Stephanocrinus and Lageniocrinus. 

 In these genera he took the plates covering the ventral surface 

 to be the orals. We have already shown that the ventral pyra- 

 mid in Haplocrinus and Coccocrinus is composed of interradials 

 and not of orals, and the same ma}' be said of Stephanocrinus ; 

 while the so-called orals in Lageniocrinus are radial in position, 

 and evidently arm pieces. 



The next writer on this subject was Prof. Zittel, who thought 

 these plates were present in Haplocrinus, Coccocrinus, Symbatho- 

 crinus, in the Cyathocrinidse, Hybocrinidse and Crotalocrinidse. 

 That the so-called orals in the Cyathocrinidse and Hybocrinidse are 

 interradials can no longer be doubted ; while the orals of Zittel 

 in Symbathocrinus prove to be merely articular extensions of the 

 radials, which, in their form, somewhat resemble the orals of 

 recent Crinoids. The so-called orals in the Crotalocrinidse are 

 identical with the proximals (nobis), and will be discussed in 

 connection with them. 



De Loriol substantiall}" accepts Zittel's classification, and also 

 his interpretation of the plates. 



Dr. P. H. Carpenter, in the Challenger Report, no longer 

 regards the large interradial plates in the Cyathocrinidse and 

 Blastoidea as orals, but, as before, he applies the term to the 

 interradials of Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus, and to the inner 

 ring of interradials in Coccocrinus. He also designates as orals 

 the six proximals surrounding the central piece, and calls the 

 latter the " orocentral." He further states that orals were 

 "represented in the vault of all Palseocrinoidse, whether simple 

 or complex, although they are sometimes very greatly reduced." 

 Carpenter's views agree essentially with those of Zittel, only that 

 he extends the term to the proximals in all cases, while Zittel 

 applies it exclusively to those of the Crotalocrinidse. According 

 to his description, the vault in the Platycrinidae is paved with 

 well-developed " Centralplatten," and in his general remarks on 

 the Actinocrinidse he speaks of "seven Scheitelplatten," sur- 

 rounded by a greater or smaller number of radial and interradial 

 plates. 



As for ourselves, we have described orals in Haplocrinus, 

 Coccocrinus, and in the Cyathocrinidse; but, as already stated, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 269 



later investigations have convinced ns that the so-called orals in 

 all three groups are calyx interradials. At no time, however, 

 have we held these plates to he structurally identical with the 

 proximals. 



Before attempting to determine the identity and relationship 

 of the oral plates in the older Crinoids, it will be necessary to 

 give a full description of the different plates which constitute 

 their summit. 



The central piece, as a rule, is the largest plate of the ventral 

 side. It is not only the centre of figure, but also the centre of 

 radiation, and as such occupies the same position ventrally as the 

 basals occupy on the dorsal side. It is frequently nodose, even 

 spiniferous, but always more or less convex, and has a concavity 

 upon its inner floor, toward which all organs from the arms con- 

 centrate. The central piece is surrounded variously by from 

 seven to twelve other plates ; four of these are larger than the 

 others, interradial in position, and each one rests upon, and con- 

 nects with, one of the four regular interradial series. Toward 

 the posterior side there are three smaller plates (PL 7, figs. 2, 5, 

 and PI. 8, figs. 7, 8), rarely two (PI. 7, figs. 6, 7, 8), which simi- 

 larly connect with the azygous interradius. The three smaller 

 pieces are frequently separated from the larger ones at each side 

 by a good-sized plate, radial in position (Xr in PI. 7, figs. 3-10, 

 and PI. 8, figs. 1, 3); sometimes, however, they unite laterally 

 with the larger ones. This is the case in the simpler forms, such 

 as Symbathocrinus (PL 5, fig. 12), and in Cyathocrinus alutaceus. 

 In very complex genera, and especially among the huge forms of 

 the Actinocrinidpe, the four larger plates are also separated by 

 radial structures, general^ by three plates longitudinally arranged 

 (PL 8, figs. 1, 3, and PL 4, fig. 4), of which the inner ones abut 

 against the central piece, the outer ones against the second radial 

 and against the sloping sides of the four large proximals. In 

 species in which the latter are laterally connected, which is much 

 more frequently the case, there is but one radial plate, and this 

 takes the position and functions of the third one. In species 

 with a single radial, this rests at the three anterior rays within 

 the angles formed by the four large proximals ; while the plates 

 of the two posterior rays are often laterally inserted between the 

 larger and smaller proximals, abutting against the central piece. 

 These two posterior radials were thought by us, and, we suspect, 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



also by P. II. Carpenter, to represent a bisected proximal, and 

 the two or three plates which the}' enclose were supposed to be 

 anals or plates of the anal tube — a mistake easily explained by 

 the fad that the plates stand in line with, and join the four large 

 proximals, and have very near their size. We discovered our 

 mistake when we found that in all internal casts the radiation 

 follows I he median line of the plates, and not the suture, as in the 

 case of the proximals. The disturbance in the arrangement of 

 the two posterior radials is evidently due to the anal structures, 

 which pushed these plates out of their regular position. In 

 species with a large subcentral anal tube, the position of these 

 radials is so completely altered that they are sometimes actually 

 placed within the semicircle of the four large proximals. Such 

 is the case in the specimen of Te.leiocrinux (PI. 4, fig. 4), in which 

 the anal appendage is almost central. In this specimen, all three 

 anterior rays have three primary radials, while the two posterior 

 ones have four. The inner plates serve as a kind of axillary for 

 the ambulacra of the postero- and antero-lateral rays, which are 

 undivided for some distance, giving off" underneath a branch to 

 the outer radials. The presence of a fourth radial is rather an 

 exception, and, indeed, three radials are found, as far as we know, 

 only in the larger species of the Actinocrinidae. In species in 

 which the covering plates pass out to the surface of the vault, 

 the radial dome plates are frequently either wanting in the three 

 anterior rays, or the}' are exceedingly rudimentary and very 

 irregular in form, while those of the posterior rays are generally 

 intact (PL 7, figs. 3, 9, 10). But in some species the posterior 

 radials are partially or totally resorbed (PL 7, fig. 8), and the 

 covering plates pass out directly from beneath the central piece. 

 In Melocrinus and Gyathocrinus aluto.ceus, in which the anal 

 structures are comparatively narrow, the central piece being 

 generally surrounded by only six plates, of which two face the 

 posterior side — all five radials are placed outside the ring of 

 proximals; but we have a specimen of Melocrinus Konincki in 

 which, exceptionally, the plate of the right postero-lateral ray is 

 placed in line with the proximals. Another interesting departure 

 from the general rule is found among the larger species of Dory- 

 crinus, Megistocrinus and Agaricocrinus, in which the central 

 plate is isolated from the proximals by a belt of small pieces. 

 \<>i even the proximals are connected with the radial dome 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 271 



plates, nor with one another, and each summit plate has a totally 

 isolated position. In the smaller species and younger specimens, 

 however, all summit plates are connected, showing that those 

 small inserted plates result from excessive growth, and are intro- 

 duced to increase the capacity of the visceral cavitj'. 



Higher orders of summit radials exist in comparatively few 

 genera. We must admit that the descriptions which we gave of 

 these plates, although correct as to certain species, cannot he 

 applied to the Palseocrinoidea generally, nor even to all Actino- 

 crinidae. Manjr of them have but a single radial, and the plates 

 which we took to be radials in most of them, prove to be inter- 

 axillaries and interbrachials, which often attain a larger size than 

 the surrounding plates. A very conspicuous case of this kind is 

 Borycrinus, in which the large spiniferous plate above each ray 

 is not a primar} r radial as we had supposed, but an interaxillary, 

 for the bifurcation of the ambulacral tube takes place beneath 

 the preceding plate. The misconception of these plates in this 

 and other genera led us to suppose that the arrangement of some 

 of the summit plates was more or less disturbed in all species 

 with a large number of arms, while in fact we had searched for 

 plates which are unrepresented. The arrangement of the summit 

 plates, as a rule, is very regular, and only disturbed by the anal 

 tube. They are readily recognized even in Megistocrinus , Stroto- 

 crinus and Teleiocrinus as seen by our diagrams (PL 8, figs. 1, 

 3, 5, and PL 4, fig. 4). 



It has been stated that the proximals, in all cases in which 

 they have been recognized by us, consist of more than five plates, 

 generally of seven, and we have asserted, which has been 

 accepted by Carpenter (Chall. Rep., p. 167), that the two outer 

 plates at the azygous side are equivalent to, and take the place 

 of a fifth large one, being separated from each other by anal 

 plates or the proboscis. The structure is well shown by our 

 diagrams, but in examining them it must be borne in mind that 

 the plates marked Xr are radials, and not interradials as hereto- 

 fore supposed. The more central the position of the anal 

 aperture, and the larger the size of the tube, the greater is the 

 disturbance in the general arrangement of the summit plates. 

 This might be expected, but it is certainly ver}^ remarkable that 

 the azygous proximal is divided also in species in which the 

 position of the anal opening is lateral or dorsal, and totally 




272 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



outside the ring of proximate. Yet such is the case in Megisto- 

 crinus Evansii and in Megistocrinus brevicornis, in which the 

 anal tube is extremely small, located beneath the arm regions, 

 and separated from the proximals by from ten to twenty rings of 

 plates. At the az} r gous* side they have two well-defined proxi- 

 mals, separated by irregular small plates, in a similar manner as 

 in other groups. If these pieces were orals, as asserted by 

 Carpenter, it is difficult to understand wh} r they should be divided 

 in these species, especially if we take into consideration that the 

 orals in all recent Crinoids, even in the asymmetrical Thaumato- 

 crinus, consist of five undivided plates. 



There is not a single instance known among recent Crinoids in 

 which the anal opening penetrates the orals, not even in the early 

 larva, in which the oral pyramid occupies the whole ventral sur- 

 face. In the larva the opening is placed within the equatorial 

 zone, beneath the orals, and the same is probably the case in 

 Hoi opus, in which the orals retain permanently the condition of 

 the larva. In the more advanced stages, the anal opening is 

 carried inward by the gradually increasing perisome, but it 

 remains outside the oral ring in all cases, whether the orals 

 become absorbed as in Pentacrinus, Bathycrinus and Antedon, or 

 are retained permanently as in Rhizocrinus, Thaumatocrinus 

 and Hyocrinus. 



In the face of such evidence it seems to us extremely hazardous 

 to assert that in Palaeozoic Crinoids the anus penetrated the orals, 

 or was closely connected with them. But we must make this 

 assertion if we are to accept the interradials in Haplocrinus, and 

 the so-called proximals in other genera, as the representatives of 

 the orals. We might account for a slight disturbance in the form 

 of the plates in genera in which the anus, or its component parts, 

 come in direct contact with the plates, 1 but in our opinion no 

 explanation whatever can be given why in such forms as Megisto- 

 crinus, Grotalocrinus, etc., the posterior oral plate should be 

 divided. For the same reason we cannot accept the five inter- 

 radial plates in Haplocrinus to be orals. If Haplocrinus was in 



1 There is a case in which the anus penetrates the central piece. In the 

 Calyptocrinidse in which the whole calyx — with the exception of the 

 basals— is symmetrical, the anus is strictly central, and the proximals com- 

 pletely pushed out of position, the central piece is bisected, and the two 

 halves, jointly with the proximals, form the sides of the anal tube. 




18 85.] NATUBAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 273 



the condition of the Pentacrinoid larva, as suggested by Car- 

 penter, it should have its anal opening beneath the orals, and not 

 pierced through the upper portion of one of them. The very 

 fact that the anal structures are invariably connected with the 

 proximals, proves to us that the latter are interradials, developed 

 around the left peritoneal tube, in a similar manner as the cabyx 

 interradials around the right, and that, as such, they are homol- 

 ogous with the first interradial plate in the cabyx, and not with 

 the basals, as suggested by Carpenter. The interradials, and not 

 the basals, enclose the anal plates ; there is not a single instance 

 known to us in which an anal plate enters the basal ring. The 

 az} y gous side of the proximals is generally composed of three 

 adjacent pieces transversely arranged, and a divided interradial, 

 which encloses an anal plate, as in the case of the primary calyx 

 interradials. Sometimes, however, the anal plate is lifted out, 

 and the first row is occupied exclusively by a bisected proximal 

 (PI. 7, figs. 8-10), as in the apical system of Actinocrinas. 



It has been observed by Goette (Vergleichende Entwickelungs- 

 geschichte d. Comatula mediterranean, Arch. f. Microsk. Anat., 

 1876, Bd. xii, pp. 621-624), that there exists a complete homology 

 between basals and orals, and that both were developed spirally, 

 the former round the right, the other round the left peritoneal 

 tube. Upon these important observations, with which we fully 

 agree, Carpenter undertakes to build up his proof that the proxi- 

 mals are the orals of the Palaeocrinoidea. He reasons as follows 

 (Chall. Rep., pp. 169, 170) : " The basals are primitively next to 

 the abactinal centre in Urchins and Stellerids, and are only re- 

 moved from it in the Crinoid by the growing stem ; while the 

 orals are next the actinal centre, no plate being developed there, 

 however, in the recent Crinoid. Did it appear, it would only be 

 in the way, and have to undergo resorption to a greater or less 

 extent, just as the dorsocentral of many Urchins is more or less 

 completely resorbed after the appearance of the anus." 



The discovery of a dorsocentral plate in the larva of the Urchins, 

 Starfishes and Ophiurids b}- Carpenter, Sladen and Liitken, which 

 Carpenter thinks is represented by the terminal plate at the base 

 of the larval stem in Comatula, is to our minds no proof, in the 

 total absence of embrj'ological evidence, that there was a similar 

 plate at the oral side. The so-called " orocentral " is said to be 

 present exclusively in Palseocrinoids, but there it is found in all 

 19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



of them. It is difficult to believe that a plate so prominent, and 

 so universally represented among the older forms, should be un- 

 represented in the larva of recent Crinoids before the opening of 

 the oral pyramid. Carpenter's argument, that if the plate was 

 present in the larva it would be in the way, and have to undergo 

 resorption, is certainly not a strong one, for he admits in the 

 Urchins a partial resorption of the dorsocentral after the appear- 

 ance of the anus, and similar resorptions are going on constantly 

 in the growing Crinoid. 



Carpenter's arguments respecting the orals are based essentially 

 upon the existence of an orocentral plate, and if this cannot be 

 proved, his whole oral theory must fall to the ground. In the 

 recent Crinoids, he states : " The embiyological evidence clearly 

 indicates that the basals of the abactinal system are represented 

 in the actinal S} T stem bj r the orals. The former are within the 

 ring of radials and next to the dorsocentral ; and it seems, there- 

 fore, only natural to regard the six proximal interradial plates, 

 surrounding the central piece (orocentral) in the vault of a 

 Palreocrinoid, as representing oral plates.'' 



Admitting that the terminal plate at the base of the larval 

 stem in the Comatula3 represents the dorsocentral of Stellerids 

 and Urchins, a question which we will not discuss, and admitting 

 further, that a similar plate existed dorsally in the young Palaeo- 

 crinoid, which we have good reason to doubt, 1 we cannot make 

 out the affinities that are said to exist between this plate and the 

 central piece, the so-called "orocentral." The former is the 

 outer end of a mere transitory appendage, which in the growing 

 animal soon withers off, and which is attached to the outer 

 face of the skeleton, forming no part of it. The latter is a 

 permanent plate, which rests within the test and fills a con- 

 spicuous place in it. It is the most important plate in the 



1 We have examined a large number of roots, and have in our collection 

 five perfect Crinoids from the tips of the arms to the ends of the rootlets. 

 In all of them the column runs out into numerous branches, which all 

 come to a point, having no special terminal plate. It is evidetit that the 

 majority of the older Crinoids, either must have lived in a kind of oozy 

 ground, or they led a half-free life in the adult, using the root as an anchor. 

 In the Lower Silurian only we find attached to corals or shells isolated 

 disks, with a pit at the centre, which may represent the terminal plate- of 

 Glyptocrinus, but nothing like this has ever been found elsewhere. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 275 



summit, as it covers the mouth, and lodges underneath the 

 annular vessel, which is the origin and centre of the whole 

 ambnlacral system. As such it has not only the position but 

 performs the functions of the closed oral pyramid in the Penta- 

 crinoid larva. Wh} r , therefore, should the proximals be the 

 orals, and the central piece represent something else that is 

 totally unknown in Crinoid ontogeny, and among Echinoderms 

 generally ? The proximals, as a rule, surround the peristome, 

 but do not cover it. The tentacular vestibule is closed by the 

 central piece. This is well shown in our specimen of Batocrinus 

 Christyi (PL 5, fig. 6), in which the perisomic plates extend up 

 to the central piece. Other specimens (PI. 4, fig. 4, and PI. 8, 

 figs. 1, 2, 5) show that the radiations pass out from beneath the 

 central piece, and not from beneath the proximals. If there 

 had been such a thing as an " orocentral," it is difficult to 

 understand how this plate could have entered the " oral ring," 

 unless it was developed in the early larva, as the proximals 

 remain permanently closed. The Palseocrinoids, as a rule, 

 have a central piece, but they do not all have proximals, 

 and it is very significant that the proximals are absent in the 

 earliest Silurian genera, and are most conspicuous in the later 

 and higher types. Eeterocrinus juvenis is evidently in the same 

 morphological condition as Haplocrinus. The ring of plates, 

 which Carpenter no longer considers orals in Cyathocrinus, 

 encloses a central piece without proximals, and in all probability 

 the same is the case in Hybocystites and the Hybocrinidae gener- 

 ally. The Reteocrinidae possess on\y a small central piece, but 

 have no proximals. Are the orals here resorbed, and also the 

 interradials ? That would, indeed, suggest a very peculiar condi- 

 tion for a Lower Silurian genus. 



The basals, as pointed out by Carpenter, are the most important 

 plates in the calyx. They lodge within their cavity, bounded by 

 the radials, the" chambered organ, which is the centre of the 

 nervous and vascular system, and from the basals the axial canals 

 pass out to the radials and arms. In the summit, the central 

 plate occupies, in relation to the radials, the same position as the 

 basals. It is the only summit plate that is represented in every 

 Palaaocrinoid, and it lodges underneath the most important 

 organs of the oral system. In view of these facts, and admitting 

 that the orals are the homologues of the basals, there can scarcely 




276 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



be a doubt that the central piece, undivided as it is, is the true 

 horaologue of the oral pyramid as represented in the Penta- 

 crinoid larva. 



It is true that the pentamerous nature of the orals is an 

 objection to this interpretation, but we do not believe it a serious 

 one, certainly not so great as is found in attempting to homolo- 

 gize six proximals with five orals. 



Of the embryology of the Palseocrinoidea little or nothing is 

 known except from phylogenetic evidence, and even this is limited, 

 and gives information only as to the later stages in the almost 

 fully developed Crinoid. In recent Crinoids, from their earliest 

 stages, the orals are composed of five distinct plates, and it is 

 very possible that the central piece, if representing the orals of 

 the Palseocrinoidea, primitively consisted also of five pieces, 

 which were fused together, ami that the suture lines gradually 

 were obliterated by deposition of new material at the outer sur- 

 face, as in the case of the underbasals in Agassizocrinus. Who 

 would have thought that in this genus the thick plate at the 

 dorsal end represented five anchylosed plates, if the sutures had 

 not been fortunately observed in some of the younger specimens? 

 That a similar process probably took place at the outer face of 

 the central piece, is somewhat indicated by the condition of the 

 plate, which is alwa}'s more or less conical or spinil'erous, and 

 wherever the point of the plate has been broken, the missing part 

 is replaced by secretion of new deposit. It seems to us that in 

 a group like the Paloeocrinoidea, in which the tentacular vestibule 

 was permanently closed, a gradual anchylosis of the five primary 

 plates is deducible from analogy, and would be in entire accord- 

 ance with prevailing rules in nature. 



Such an ancl^dosis occurred in palaeozoic times among the 

 basals, and this is of considerable importance, as the basals are 

 admitted by Carpenter to represent the orals. In the larva of 

 Antedon, the basal ring is formed of live distinct plates, and the 

 same number prevails in the adult throughout the recent Crinoids, 

 if not throughout the Neocrinoidea generally. Among mono- 

 cyclic Pala?ocrinoids, however, this number forms the exception, 

 and occurs only in a few Silurian genera. Five are soon succeeded 

 by four, three and two plates. Carpenter finds no objection to 

 call all those plates basals, and to regard them, whether composed 

 of two, three or five plates, as the representatives and homologues 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 27 T 



of the orals. Similar modifications occur in the number of 

 underbasals, and among them Carpenter admits three and four 

 plates ; but when we find the underbasals in Stemmatocrinus 

 evidently fused together to a single piece, he regards this as a 

 stem joint. 



Even the joints of the column are sometimes tri- or quinque- 

 partite, from the top of the column to the end of the rootlets, 

 and principally in Lower Silurian genera ; nevertheless the stem 

 joints of the Pentacrinoid larva, and those of the Neocrinoidea 

 generally, are undivided throughout. Are we to consider the 

 former as different elements from the latter because they are 

 composed of three or five pieces ? Or are we to regard the five 

 plates collectively as the homologues of the undivided joints of 

 recent and other Crinoids ? In the latter case, why should not 

 the dorsocentral, i. e., the terminal plate of the column, be divided 

 in one or the other species ? That the plate is undivided in the 

 Pentacrinoid larva, and in the few species of Pentacrinus in 

 which it has been observed, is by no means a proof that it is so 

 in all Crinoids. 



It has been stated by Carpenter that " the basals are within 

 the ring of radials, and next to the dorsocentral." This is no 

 doubt frequently the case, but is not the universal rule. In 

 the Rhodocrinidae and Reteocrinidae the interradials are placed 

 between the radials, forming with them a ring of ten plates 

 around the basals, while in the Acrocrinidse the radials are totally 

 isolated from the basals by a wide belt of plates, which, although 

 not true interradials, may be fairby compared with them (PI. 8, 

 fig. 1). 



At the oral side, the arrangement is fundamentally the same 

 as in the cahyx, as can be observed in species in which all summit 

 plates are fully developed. Frequently, however, the first and 

 second radials are orally unrepresented, when the third radials 

 occupy the same position as their representatives in the calyx, 

 which is the same as that occupied by the third summit radials 

 of Strotocrinus, etc. 



If the orals were represented by the proximals, the latter 

 should be succeeded in all cases by the radials, and not be 

 included in the same ring. There is not a single instance of 

 Crinoids known to us where either a radial or an anal plate 

 entered the basal ring, or where an anal plate entered the 




278 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



ring of orals, yet all of this must be encountered if we con- 

 sider the proximals to be the orals. Moreover, in Strotocrinus 

 and Teleiocrinus the two posterior radials would be placed 

 inside the oral ring, the orals of Megistocrinus would enclose a 

 large circlet of interradial pieces ; while in Beteocrinus, Glypto- 

 crinus and other Silurian genera, the orals would be altogether 

 unrepresented. All these difficulties are removed if we regard 

 the central piece as the representative of the oral pyramid, and 

 the proximals as summit interradials. Basals and radials, inter- 

 radials and anal plates are then found to occupy the same position 

 orally as aborally, and even the small intercalated pieces in the 

 dome of Megistocrinus are explained by analogous plates in 

 the catyx of Acrocrinus. But on the contraiy, if the proximals 

 were the orals, it would follow that the orals were represented in 

 the calyx by the proximal interradials, and not by the basals. 



That the proximals, which are such prominent plates in the 

 Palseocrinoidea, are unrepresented in the Neocrinoids, is fully 

 explained by the fact that in the latter the interradials generall}' 

 were imperfectly developed in the catyx, and hence their absence 

 in that group cannot be considered a serious objection to our 

 views. 



We are convinced that neither the underbasals nor the dorso- 

 central are represented at the summit, especially not the latter. 

 We cannot imagine what office such a plate could possibly have 

 had at the oral side, considering that it constitutes a part of the 

 column, and the Echinoderms at no time, or in any group, were 

 attached at their oral side. That it is represented dorsally in the 

 Stellerids and Urchins is natural, as it represents there in a 

 wider sense the entire column of the Crinoid, but its presence at 

 the oral side would be an anomaly. 



It seems to us that a far less objectionable explanation of the 

 central plate than that given by Carpenter, would be to regard it 

 as a posterior oral. In this case the orals would he represented 

 by five plates and not by six ; the anus woidd be placed outside 

 the oral ring, and the radial dome plates would occupy the same 

 position towards the orals as the calyx radials toward the basals. 

 But it would place the mouth underneath the posterior oral, and 

 it offers no explanation of the central piece in Eaplocrinus. 



This view was, perhaps, taken by Zittel in the case of the 

 summit plates of Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus, in which the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



central plate has a somewhat elongate form, and which he 

 described as having five orals. The summit plates in both 

 genera are subtegminal, being covered completely by interra- 

 dials, and the same was probably the case in the allied Ichtbyo- 

 crinidse, at least in their earlier forms. Reteocrinus and Xeno- 

 crinus were evidently in a similar condition, but it is not known 

 whether they had summit plates beneath the interradials or not. 

 Ghjptocrinus and most of the Silurian genera of the Camarata 

 had a central piece, but no proximals. In all Devonian Crinoids 

 both plates are generally represented, but they do not attain their 

 full development until the Carboniferous. 



It has been asserted by us that the ventral plates in Allage- 

 crinus, Haplocrinus, Gvlicocrinus and Coccocrinus, are calyx 

 interradials and not proximals. In Allagecrinus and Haplo- 

 crinus there are five single plates occupying the same space as 

 the whole series of interradials in other genera. In their simpli- 

 city, and in resting upon the raclials and closing the peristome, 

 these plates, no doubt, closety resemble the orals in the Penta- 

 crinoid larva, but as calyx interradials they would occupy exactly 

 the same position. There is, however, a very important difference 

 in the structure of the two forms to which no attention has been 

 paid. The orals of the larva and those of Holopus rest loosely 

 upon the calyx ; while the interradials of Haplocrinus, like all 

 other interradials, are united with the raclials by a close suture. 



It has been proved from palgeontological evidence, that in the 

 earlier genera the interradials are more extravagantly developed 

 than in later ones. In Crotalocrinus and Reteocrinus, the inter- 

 radials cover the entire ventral surface ; in Glyptocrinus and 

 Glyptaster they extend to the central plate ; while in the Carbon- 

 iferous genera they recede gradually toward the periphery, and 

 the central space is filled by large proximals, and often by radial 

 dome plates. Considering these facts, is it safe to assert that in 

 Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus, which are regarded as larval 

 forms, interradials are entirely absent, and that all ventral plates 

 are actinal ? Is it not more reasonable to imagine that in these 

 low forms the ventral side was covered by the one plate, in a 

 similar manner as in Crotalocrinus, Reteocrinus and Glyptocrinus 

 hy the whole collection of plates ? In the Neocrinoidea, from 

 the larva to the adult, all ventral plates are actinal, but in all 

 Pakeozoic Crinoids, and we may say in all Palaeozoic Pelmatozoa, 




280 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



the "whole, or at least the greater part of the ventral side, is abac- 

 tinal, and this we consider one of the best distinctions between 

 the two groups. We do not understand how Carpenter can 

 maintain that those plates are orals, and at the same time can 

 retain Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus under the Palaeocrinoidea. 

 He must either refer them to the Neocrinoidea, or accept the so- 

 called " Scheitelplatten " as interradials in their simplest form. 



It seems to us that in Allagecrinus the interradials cover not 

 only the disk but also the summit plates. Culicocrinus is in a 

 similar condition, but has additional interradial plates. In the 

 somewhat higher developed Coccocrinus, the interradials are 

 separated from one another, forming lateral clefts and a central 

 gap, evidently to receive the oral plate and the ambulacra, which, 

 however, retain permanently the position which they occupied 

 before the valves separated, and rest in the bottom part of the 

 clefts. In Haplocrinus the interradials evidently separated in 

 the growing animal, and the oral plate moved outward, but not 

 sufficiently to bring it to a level with surrounding plates ; while 

 the ambulacra remained subtegminal. The interradials, instead 

 of being formed into lateral clefts as in Coccocrinus, remained 

 permanently closed by means of lateral growth, as shown by their 

 beveled edges, which are formed into grooves. 



From Haplocrinus to Cyathocrinus alutaceus and Symbatho- 

 crinus there is but one step. The latter two have proximals, the 

 former not. The proximals, we think, were introduced in the 

 Palreoerinoidea in a similar manner as the perisomic plates in 

 the Neocrinoidea. The interradials by the -increasing width of 

 the calyx retreated in the growing Crinoid toward the periphery, 

 thereby forming an open space around the oral plate which was 

 gradually tilled by the proximals and other dome plates. Sym- 

 bathocrinus is a much higher form than Haplocrinus, as shown by 

 the presence of proximals, by the ventral tube, and by the highly 

 differentiated mode of articulation. 



If it were true that the five interradials of Haplocrinus and 

 Allagecrinus are homologous with the six proximals of Symbatho- 

 crinus, Platycrinus and Actinocrinus, and that these plates are 

 orals, it would follow, inasmuch as all later and complex Palseo- 

 crinoidea have six plates, that the larger number represented the 

 higher form. And further, that Jlaplocrinus and Allagecrinus 

 had reached a degree of development such as attained only by 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



Neocrinoidea, but existing among them as a constant character 

 through all stages of growth. In the Neocrinoid larva the orals 

 are large, occupying the entire ventral side, or one-half of the 

 entire test, and the conditions are not changed by the introduc- 

 tion of perisome in the adult. In the adult Palaeocrinoid the 

 actinal system of plates is restricted to a small space, and it is 

 very impi-obable that the orals extended out to the radials in the 

 earlier stages, or in such forms as Haplocrinus and Allagecrinus, 

 which, as admitted by Carpenter, are in the condition of the 

 Palaeocrinoid larva. 



All this tends to prove that the resemblance between the proxi- 

 mals and the orals in the adult Rhizocrinite or Thaumatocrinite, 

 and the " Scheitelplatten " in Allagecrinus and Haplocrinus with 

 the Pentacrinoid larva, is altogether superficial, and that the orals, 

 if these are developed in Palseocrinoidea, which we think they 

 are, can only be represented by the central plate. 



A resorption of the summit plates may have taken place in the 



later Inadunata ; throughout the Camarata they persisted through 



life. 



B. The Ventral Perisome. 



The ventral perisome covers the visceral mass or bod}- , and 

 together with the oral plates, forms the surface of the disk. It 

 is composed of the " ambulacral " and " anambulacral " plates. 

 The anambulacral plates are irregular pieces or limestone par- 

 ticles along the interpalmar areas, which consist of the anambu- 

 lacral plates proper, and the so-called interradial plates of the 

 disk. The former are pierced by numerous water pores, and 

 occupy the spaces between the ambulacra ; the latter are not 

 perforated, and occur in the substance of the perisome, uniting 

 the rays and their subdivisions. These interradials must not 

 be confounded with the calyx interradials, which cover those 

 of the disk. The ambulacral plates extend from the peristomial 

 area to the extremities of the. arms and pinnules, and consist 

 of the so-called " Saumplattchen " or " covering plates,'' and the 

 " adambulacral " or "side pieces" which support the former 

 and border the outer margins of the ambulacra. 



In the Pentacrinidse, the perisome is always studded more or 

 less with plates, and these often have a very solid appearance ; 

 while in the Comatulae the entire perisome is sometimes almost, 

 or totally, free from calcareous incrustations. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Among the earlier groups of the Neocrinoidea, the perisome is 

 only known in the Jurassic Extracrinus and in Marsupites, in 

 both of which it consists of small irregular pieces, forming a 

 rather substantial pavement, which frequently encloses the lower 

 pinnules. Among Palseocrinoidea, a perisome has rarely been 

 observed, but it was preserved among several groups, and we 

 have been led to the conclusion that the perisome was probably 

 subtegminal in the Camarata, the Articulata, and the earlier 

 Inadunata, but external in the later Pistulata, our former Cyatho- 

 crinidte, which we make a branch of the Inadunata. 



The perisomic skeleton of the Camarata is frequently pre- 

 served in Baiocrinus, Eretmocrinus, Physetocrinns and Dory- 

 crinus, in which it probably attained a more substantial form 

 than in any of the other genera. It is there composed of rather 

 distinct plates, placed parallel to those of the test or tegmen 

 calicis, and arranged in a similar manner. Each plate of the 

 outer test has a corresponding plate in the ventral perisome ; 

 the plates of the latter, however, are not connected by suture, 

 but disposed loosely, leaving an open space at each angle, which 

 was perhaps tilled by membranous substance. In their usual 

 preservation the plates are frequently dense, owing to incrusta- 

 tions of inorganic matter, but in their natural state they consist 

 of a fine network, and resemble similar plates in recent Crinoids. 

 They form a sort of internal lining, wdiich extends from the 

 second primary radials and first intenadials, uninterruptedly, to 

 the central piece, or near it, underlying the proximals and enter- 

 ing the anal tube. This structure is well shown in the specimen 

 (PL 5, fig. 6), in which the sutures between central plate and 

 proximals are visible. Most of tin 1 perisomic plates, along their 

 median port ions, are connected with the plates of the test by 

 small pillars or partition walls, leaving between them open 

 chambers, evidently for the free circulation of water. The water 

 probably entered from without by means of the respiratory pores, 

 which we described in Part I, p. 11, and which jointly may have 

 performed the functions of a madreporite. There are, however, 

 no pillars between tin- plates along the radial regions, which take 

 the shape of closed galleries or corridors, formed by groove- 

 along the inner floor of the test, and closed from below by peri- 

 some. These passages diverge toward the arm bases and contain 

 the ambulacral tubes. The perisome of other genera was prob- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



abty less substantial, and perhaps in some of them altogether 

 membranous. We never observed anything like plates in the 

 Actinocrinites, except in Physetocrinus, in which they are well 

 developed. Of this genus we lately obtained a specimen which 

 proved that the small tubercles along the ventral surface, figured 

 by us in Rev. ii, PI. 19, fig. . r >, are not, as we then supposed, 

 openings through the " vault," but impressions of the open 

 spaces between the anambulacral plates. In Actinocrinus and 

 allied genera we occasionally find little pillars or nodes along the 

 inner floor, which sometimes suspend fragmentary plates, or 

 portions of a filmy substance, and evidently are parts of the 

 perisome. We found similar pillars along the floor of Glypto- 

 crinus rarnulosus (PI. 9, fig. 2) underneath the interradial areas, 

 but not beneath the plates overlying the ambulacra. The latter 

 plates are folded as in Physetocrinus, and formed into natural 

 grooves, which evidently harbored the ambulacral tubes. 



The ambulacral tubes of the Actinocrinidae rest upon the peri- 

 some, but rarely enter the plates of the vault, and do not become 

 exposed until they enter the free arms. In the Platycrinidae the 

 structure is essentiall}' the same, but the covering pieces frequent^ 

 enter the calyx at — or close to — the proximals, and in this case 

 often take the form of vault plates. In the young Crinoid, 

 according to our interpretation, the ambulacral tubes were 

 attached to, and rested primarily within the grooves of the lower 

 arm joints, from which they were gradually lifted out when these 

 became incorporated with the calyx and transformed into radials. 

 It seems to us that, while this was going on, the radial regions 

 of the vault were raised by the ambulacra, thereby producing 

 elevations or folds along the vault of Glyptocrinus and Physeto- 

 crinus ; while in Platycrinus the ambulacra in many cases pene- 

 trated the test. 



The tubes are composed of four rows of plates, alternately 

 arranged, of which two constitute the floor, the two others the 

 upper side. The upper ones are the covering pieces, but we are 

 not certain whether those at the floor are side pieces or form a 

 sort of suliambulacral plates. The covering plates where they 

 entered the vault were suturally connected, but on entering the 

 arms became movable. Side pieces have never been observed in 

 the Camarata, but covering plates are found occasionally both in 

 arms and pinnules, and were probabby present in all of them. 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



We have noticed (Rev. ii, p. 31) narrow grooves upon the inner 

 surface of the vault, which meet beneath the median part of the 

 oral plate, and follow the subtegminal galleries which enclose the 

 ambulacral tubes. The condition of these grooves can be studied 

 most profitably from natural casts, in which they appear as string- 

 like elevations along the ventral surface. They have been ob- 

 served most frequently among the Actinocrinites, where they 

 seem to be universally developed, while no traces of them are to 

 be seen in the twenty or more casts of Platycrinus which we 

 examined. That they do not represent the ambulacral tubes, is 

 proved by the fact that these are always located at a distance 

 from the inner floor, as beautifully shown in the casts (PI. 4, fig. 

 5, iiinl PL 5, fig. 9), and wherever we found the tubes intact, they 

 occupy the same position. That the strings are in no way con- 

 nected with the tubes, is further shown by the fact that they always 

 meet in the centre, while the tubes form a ring around the centre, 

 as also by the irregularity which they exhibit. It is shown by 

 our figures (PL 4, fig. 4, and PL 8, figs. 1 and 3), that there are 

 always two of them side by side, which at places connect, and 

 again at others depart from one another, with irregular knots at 

 each bifurcation. This structure could not be explained if the 

 strings represented the inner cavity of the ambulacral tubes, as 

 these are very regularly arranged. That the grooves are placed 

 along the solid walls of the test, has led us to suppose that they 

 were axial canals, and that these Crinoids possessed an orocentral 

 nervous system like all other Echinoderms, but contrary to the 

 Neocrinoidea, in which the nervous system, as now generally admit- 

 ted, is connected with the chambered organ within the basal cavity. 

 Our interpretation becomes more plausible when we consider that 

 in the Camarata the radials arc never pierced by canals, and it 

 would be difficult to understand how these ponderous arms could 

 have moved without axial cords, unless their movements were 

 altogether passive. That the canals have been observed only in 

 certain groups, may be explained by supposing that in many 

 cases they probably rested againsl the wall, without piercing the 

 floor. 



That the perisome, wherever found in place, extends all the 

 way from the top of the first interradials to the central piece, is 

 very interesting, and shows a complete resemblance between the 

 ventral perisome of a recent Crinoid, and the body beneath the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 285 



vault of an Actinocrinoicl. A total resorption of all interradial 

 plates, dorsally and ventrally, and also of the proximals, would 

 reduce an Actinocrinoid, or Platycrinoid, essentiall} T to the 

 condition of a Neocrinoid that has its lower arm joints connected 

 by perisome. The fact that the perisome is continued under- 

 neath the proximals, and extends to the central piece, tends to 

 prove that the latter, and not the proximals, represents the oral 

 pyramid, as these plates surround the peristomial area but do 

 not cover it (PI. 1, fig. 6). It further proves that the inter- 

 radial plates of Platycrinus, Glyptocrinus and Reteocrinus cannot 

 be partly plates of the calyx and partly pcrisomic, but must 

 be either the one or the other. If the Reteocrinidse had lived 

 in Carboniferous times, and the Actinocrinidse in the Lower 

 Silurian, there might be a possibility that in the former the 

 interradials, dorsally and ventrally, as well as the summit plates, 

 had been resorbed ; but as they comprise one of the earliest 

 known groups, this interpretation need not be considered, and we 

 can only regard those plates as ill-defined interradials. 



We find it difficult to believe that the so-called "interradials " 

 of Guettardicrinus, and Apiocrinus i-oissyanus and allied species, 

 are homologous with the calyx interradials of an Actinocrinoid ; 

 but regard all those pieces as enormously developed perisomic 

 plates. That they are somewhat heavier pieces and more regu- 

 larly arranged than those plates usually are, is not sufficient to 

 make them calyx plates, as they evidentlj- adapted their con- 

 ditions to surrounding parts, and are therefore thick plates from 

 necessity, in order to fill the deep edges of adjoining radials. 

 De Loriol, in the Paleont. Franc, on p. 2*72, describes them in Apio- 

 crinus roissyanus as follows: Pieces interradiales nombreuses, 

 tres inegales, elles varient dans chaque espace interradial dans 

 le nombre et l'arrangement. Presque toujours la serie commence 

 par une piece unique, hexagone ou heptagone, qui est la plus 

 grande, quelquefois fort grande. . . . Au-dessus il y a deux, trois, 

 et meme quatre pieces plus petites, irregulieres, polj-gonales," 

 etc. This description does not apply to calyx interadials, among 

 which the first plate is always very regular, and the first row 

 never consists of two plates, nor the second variously of two, 

 three or four pieces. This irregularity seems to have puzzled 

 Carpenter, for, on p. 183 of the Challenger Report, he suggests 

 that perhaps the " smaller interradials were perisomic plates." 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Why not the first plate also ? We seriously doubt if those plates 

 enclose the perisome as the interradials in Actinocrinus, or were 

 covered by perisome as in Cyathocrinus^ and hence believe they 

 are not calyx but perisomic plates, which, like the smaller pieces 

 of Extracrinus, united the lower arm divisions. We take the 

 same view of the so-called interradials and interaxillaries of 

 Uintacrinus, which merely attained the outer form of calyx 

 pieces, hut are true disk plates, and on approaching the ventral 

 si le passed into anambulacral pieces instead of harboring or sup- 

 porting a perisome. The case is altogether different in Thaumato- 

 crinus, in which the interradials are placed within the ring of first 

 radials, and as such form, like the anal plate, a primitive part of 

 the calyx. The Crotalocrinidse present a different perisomatic 

 arrangement from the Actinocrinidae. The interradials frequently 

 commence in the equatorial zone, and extend over the whole 

 ventral surface, even oral plate and proximals being subtegminal. 

 Their perisome, which was figured by Angelin in Crotalocrinns 

 rugosus (Icon. Crin. Suec, PI. xvii, fig. 3 a), is composed ex- 

 clusively of covering plates. The proximals are long and narrow, 

 and abut with their outer edges against the deflected upper ends 

 of two radials. leaving radially live angular spaces, which are 

 occupied by the ambulacra. These ambulacra, of which the 

 covering plates are visible, bifurcate like those of other groups, 

 but their subdivisions, in place of being separated by anambu- 

 lacral plates, join each other laterally, and, together with the 

 summit plates, fill the entire ventral surface. The total absence 

 of anambulacral pieces in this genus is a most remarkable feature, 

 hut may perhaps be explained by the presence of hydrospires. 

 There are, however, no spiracles nor pores through any of the 

 plates, except along the anal tube, which is perforated along its 

 walls. 



The vault of the Crotalocrinida' extends quite a distance into 

 the free rays, us shown by Midler's and Angelin's figures (Icongr., 

 PI. 0, figs. 6 ami 7, also PI. 25, figs. 15 and 25, and Akademie der 

 Wissenschaften, 1853, PI. 13, fig. 10). That those plates are not 

 ambulacral pieces is proved by the tact, that they cover the 

 Saumplatten, and have a different style of ornamentation. Those 

 figures further prove, that the ventral covering was pliable, or the 

 arms could not have assumed that horizontal position, and be 

 folded in other specimens. This is of some importance as dem- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



onstrating that a pliable vault may enclose another flexible 

 integument and contain the food grooves underneath, which was 

 seriously questioned by Carpenter (Chall. Rep., p. 182). He 

 evidently overlooked Crotalocrinus, for we doubt if he could 

 have taken the small covering plates (Icongr.,Pl. 17, fig. 3 a) for 

 the representatives of the large rigid plates of figs. 6 and 7 on PI. G, 

 or the irregular pieces around the oral pole to be summit plates. 



Crotalocrinus and Enallocrinus have close affinities with the 

 Ichthyocrinidae, not only in that both have a flexible skeleton, 

 but the}' frequently possess no interradials dorsally, and they all 

 have the same peculiar arm structure. In speaking of a pliant 

 vault we do not mean a surface " formed of connective tissue with 

 numerous interradial plates imbedded in it," as supposed by 

 Carpenter (Chall. Rep., p, 182), but a continuous integument of 

 plates connected by ligament in place of suture, sometimes with 

 imbricating plates. We postulated the prevalence of this structure 

 in the vault of the Ichthyocrinidae from the construction of the 

 dorsal plates 2 which could not be movable unless the ventral side 

 was pliant also. Our views are confirmed by the vault structure 

 of Crotalocrinus, and we think the disk ambulacra of Ichthyo- 

 crinus were arranged in a similar manner, and covered by a 

 similar vault. 



A very different perisome is found in the higher types of the 

 Cyathocrinidse, which is not subtegminal, but exposed upon the 

 surface of the interradial plates. This form is found only in 

 genera in which the ambulacral tubes rest upon the upper edges 

 of the interradials. It is not restricted alone to the later genera, 

 but occurs in several Silurian forms. Angelin has figured such 

 a disk in Cyathocrinus Isevis (Iconogr., PL 26, figs. 2 and 3), and 

 Gissocrinus punctuosus (ibid., PI. 29, fig. 75 d), but we think 

 the structure was not correctly understood. In all cases the five 

 interradial plates are completely covered by small perisomic 

 plates, of which those at the four regular sides are not pierced 

 with water pores, while those toward the ventral sac are generally 

 profusely perforated. In some cases we found the summit plates 

 in process of resorption. In Cyathocrinus iovensis (PI. 5, fig. 7), 

 the larger proximals appear in the form of eight irregular pieces, 

 their edges rounded off; while in Cyathocrinus multibrachiatus 

 (PI. 4, fig. 6) only fragments of the plates are scattered over the 

 perisome. 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



The disk ambulacra were probably differently constructed from 

 those of the arms (PI. 4, figs. 6 ami 7). The specimens indicate 

 that the plates of the former were suturallj r connected, while 

 those :ilong the arms were movable. All Cyathocrinidae, so far 



as observed, have side-pieces which support Saumpliittchen ; and 

 these rest upon two series of subambulacral (?) plates, which form 

 the floor of a tube as in the Actinocrinidse. 



The '' ventral sac " of the Pistulata was always regarded by us 

 as functionally and structurally distinct from the "anal tube" or 

 " proboscis " of the Camarata. We held the former to be an 

 essential part of the body, and perisomic in its origin; the latter 

 as a mere prolongation of the azygous interradius, and con- 

 structed of abactinal plates. 



To understand the two structures, we must bear in mind that 

 in the growing Actinocrinoid the capacity of the calyx adequately 

 increased with the growth of the body, and hence was at any 

 time capable of holding the visceral mass. In the Fistulata, 

 however, in which all brachials remain permanently free, and the 

 calyx is not enlarged in proportion to the visceral mass, the pos- 

 terior side of the disk forced its wa3' out through the anal open- 

 in--, and formed the so-called ventral sac, which has always a 

 narrow neck along the base. According to our interpretation the 

 ventral sac is an enormously developed interpalmar area supported 

 by the anal plate, and as such reminds us of the asymmetrical 

 disk in the recent genus Aetinonometra, in which the anus is 

 central and the mouth marginal. 



In most of the Fistulata, the ventral sac is perforated with 

 round or slit-like openings, transverse^ arranged, which enter 

 the outer mar-ins of two adjoining pieces, but never penetrate 

 the inner portions of the plates like the water pores of the 

 Neocrinoidea. The openings either extend over the whole surface 

 of the sac; or are arranged in Longitudinal rows — porous plates 

 alternating with solid ones; — or the terminal end is composed of 

 large solid pieces, frequently spiniferous ; or as in the Carboni- 

 ferous species of Cyatkocrinus the entire tube is composed of solid 

 hexagonal plate-, and the porous or anambulacral plates are 

 restricted to the small area usually occupied by the smaller 

 proximals. In the Poteriocrinidse, the anambulacral plates 

 extend over the greater part of the ventral sac. but in the 

 Catillocrinidse and Calceocrinkhe they are limited to one side of 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 289 



it. The two latter groups possess a series of large anal plates, 

 arranged horizontally, and these form a proboscis with a furrow 

 at its ventral side. This proboscis was incorporated into the sac 

 in a somewhat similar manner as the lower arm joints and 

 pinnules into the disk of the Neocrinoidea. In this structure the 

 two groups have close analogies with the recent genus Thaumato- 

 crinus. In that genus, however, the row of anal plates does not 

 enter the perisome, but forms an independent solid appendage in 

 the shape of a cone, which apparently has no functions, as the 

 anal opening is persomic, and we regard this peculiar appendage 

 as a remarkable instance of atavism. 



It is probable that in the latter Poteriocrinidae and Encrinidse, 

 the interradials and summit plates became finally resorbed, and 

 the perisome was more or less restricted to the ventral disk, as 

 in these genera the sac dwindled down to a small conical tube, 

 which probably disappeared in Encrinus before reaching maturity. 



That the openings along the ventral sac are not genital open- 

 ings, as suggested lately by Trautschold, need not be discussed, 

 as most of the Fistulata have well-developed pinnules, and these 

 are not prehensile organs as supposed by him, but are continua- 

 tions of the arms which contained the genital glands. Neither 

 is it true that the ventral sac is frequently present or absent in 

 the same species. It existed in every individual, but is rarely 

 preserved in the fossil, and is often obscured by the arms. 



Nothing is known from actual observation of the perisome of 

 the Ichthyocrinidffi, and little if anything of the construction of 

 the ventral side in any of their genera. The interradial plates 

 of the dorsal side have been described by us as movable, some- 

 what irregular in form and arrangement, and upon this, prin- 

 cipally, we based our conclusion that the plates of the ventral 

 covering were movable, in some cases perhaps squamous. In 

 Onychocrinus onl} r there has been observed by Lyon and us 

 indistinct traces of a ventral covering, but too imperfect to give 

 much information either as to the real nature of the plates, or 

 as to their arrangement. Carpenter regards all interradials of 

 the dorsal side as cahvx plates, and all those succeeding them 

 and located ventrally as parts of the disk. We admit that the 

 latter may have a superficial resemblance to the small, irregular 

 and movable perisomic plates of Extracrinus and other Neo- 

 crinoidea to which he alludes. But we do not understand why a 

 20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



flexible calyx, with a flexible vault, may not enclose a soft or 

 even a plated disk such as we find in Crotalocrinus and Enallo- 

 crinus. The thiuness and irregularity of the plates is no valid 

 argument against it. We find such plates ventrally in Glypto- 

 crinus and some species of Physetocrinus, and there are plates 

 of the same nature dorsally in the Reteocrinidae. On the other 

 hand we find massive and more or less regular plates dorsally in 

 Apiocrinus, which Carpenter considers to be perisomic. To our 

 minds the case of Extracrinus is by no means parallel to that of 

 the Ichthyocrinidae, as that genus is destitute of calyx inter- 

 radials. If his argument were correct, then all the plates of the 

 Ichthyocrinidae and Reteocrinidae should be considered as peri- 

 somic. In that case the perisomic portions of the Crinoid would 

 predominate so enormously that nothing would be left for the 

 abactinal part except the base, and species of Beteocrinus, which 

 so good an observer as S. A. Miller considered as congeneric 

 with Glyptocriiius, would constitute a distinct order. And we 

 would have the anomaly that the earliest known forms of Crinoids 

 would be in this respect examples of the highest organized types, 

 and most closety allied to the recent Crinoids. 



In support of his view, Carpenter has no other proof than this 

 superficial resemblance. There is no evidence of the existence 

 of external food grooves, which must follow if these plates are 

 perisomic. The same reasons that led us to regard the smaller 

 interradials in Apiocrinus — massive as they are — as perisomic 

 plates, compel us to consider all plates of the Ichthyocrinidae, 

 interradial in position, as belonging to the same element, and 

 either all perisomic or all calyx plates. 



If the plates in question were perisomic, it would obliterate the 

 last distinguishing feature between Neocrinoidsand Palaeocrinoids, 

 and we should like to know upon what points Carpenter would 

 separate the Ichthyocrinidae and Reteocrinidae from the Neocri- 

 noidae. We admit that the direct proof of our views as to the 

 ventral structure of the Ichthyocrinidae is as yet wanting, but in 

 this respect Carpenter is no better off, and it seems to us that the 

 weight of argument from analogy is in our favor. 



The Relations of the Pal^eocrinoidea to the Neocrinoidea. 



The name " Palaeocrinoidea " was proposed by one of us in 1877 

 (Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. xiv, p. 190), but not properly defined 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 291 



until 1879 (Rev. i, p. 30). At that time we also proposed the 

 name " Stomatocrinoidea," and made both groups subdivisions of 

 the "order " Crinoidea, of equal rank with Blastoidea and Cystidea. 

 To the Palaeocrinoidea we referred the earlier brachiate Crinoids 

 in which mouth and food grooves are subtegminal or hidden from 

 view ; to the Stomatocrinidae the Mesozoic and recent Crinoids in 

 which mouth and food grooves are exposed upon the disk. Both 

 groups were admitted by Carpenter and Etheridge, Jr., in 1881, 

 but thej^ changed the name Stomatocrinoidea into " Neocrinoidea" 

 because, as they stated, our name was " long and cumbersome," 

 and they were " by no means sure that some of the Palseocri- 

 noids had not an external anal opening." We might, no doubt, 

 successfully controvert the right of Carpenter and Etheridge to 

 change our name, which had priority, and which was sufficiently 

 defined to be recognized, until they proved satisfactorily that the 

 name-giving characters were inconsistent or incorrect. This view 

 of the case was evidently taken by De Loriol, who in his late work 

 (Paleont. Francaise, tome xi, p. 43) placed both names in equal 

 rank. We hold there is not a single Palseocrinoid known in 

 which either mouth or food grooves are exposed, nor a " Stomato- 

 crinoid " in which they are closed, and this we still regard as one 

 of the best distinctions between the two groups. We, therefore, 

 wish to have it understood that, in accepting Carpenter's name, 

 we do not give up our original position, but yield to the preferable 

 name. 



The Crinoidea were subdivided by Joh. Miiller into " Crinoidea 

 Articulata " and " Crinoidea Tessellata," the latter including the 

 Inai'ticulata and Semiarticulata of Miller. Midler's definitions of 

 his groups were extremel} T vague, but we may conclude from the 

 names and from the genera which he referred to them, that they were 

 based upon a supposed difference in the mode of union of the first 

 radials with the plates which they bear. Among the Tessellata, 

 however, we find Foteriocrinus which has highly developed articular 

 facets, not only between radials and brachials, butalsoat the bifurca- 

 tions of the arms. Zittel, who adopted Midler's divisions, defined 

 the calyx plates of the Tessellata as " Unbeweglich durch einfache 

 Nathe verbunden ; " those of the Articulata as " durch gelenkartig 

 ausgehohlte und gewijlbte oder ebene Nathflachen vei'bunden." 

 But nevertheless he refers to the Tessellata the Ichthyocrinidae, 

 in which the radials are united with one another by ligament and 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



frequently by muscles also, as seen by the articular faces of 

 Forbesiocrinus nobilis (PL 5, figs. 3 and 4), and we have seen 

 similar faces in Ichthyocrinus and Taxocrinus. Among the later 

 Poteriocrinidse there are also several genera with fossae along the 

 lateral faces of the radials, which indicate a certain degree of 

 mobility even among the plates of the calyx. On the other hand, 

 the higher radials of the Apiocrinidse, which Zittel refers to the 

 Articulata,are as solidly united among each other directly, or by 

 means of intercalated plates, as in an y so-called " tessellate " Cri- 

 noid. All of this tends to prove that a division based upon the 

 mode of union between the plates is totally impracticable, if 

 intended to separate the palaeozoic from the later Crinoids, as 

 done by Zittel. We think, however, it affords important data for 

 establishing subdivisions of the Palseocrinoidse, among which we 

 recognize Articulata and Camarata, the former having their plates 

 connected by articulation, the latter by suture. 



The distinctions between the Neocrinoidea and Palseocrinoidea, 

 according to Carpenter (Challenger Report, pp. 149-154), are 

 the following : — 



1. In the Neocrinoidea, underbasals are rarely represented ; in 

 the Palseocrinoidea, frequently. 



2. In the Neocrinoidea " by far the greater number of genera 

 have five equal and similar basals, with five equal and similar 

 radials resting upon them." Exceptions to this rule are found 

 in Hyocrinus, which has three basals, and JSolopus and Eudesi- 

 crinus in which the radials are not symmetrical ; " but this want 

 of symmetry is not due to the intercalation- of any anal plate as 

 in nearly all Palseocrinoids." 



3. In all Neocrinoidea, with the exception of Thaumatocrinus, 

 " the primary radials are in contact with one another by the 

 entire length of their sides ; or more rarely, as in Guettardi- 

 crinus, Uintacrinus and Apiocrinus roissyanus, their distal angles 

 are cut away so as to receive the lower part of the first inter- 

 radial. This feature, which is common enough in the Palseo- 

 crinoidea, is rare in the Neocrinoidea." 



4. Most of the Neocrinoidea have no interradial plates in the 

 calyx, but when present " they are not limited to any special 

 side of the calyx, but are equally distributed all round it, so that 

 there is no distinction of the anal side, Thaumatocrinus excepted." 

 In the Palseocrinoidea, however, "the pentamerous symmetry of 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 293 



the calyx is almost always disturbed by a greater or less modi- 

 fication of the plates on the anal side." 



5. In the Neocrinoidea "the basals are pierced by interradial 

 canals or grooves, which lodge the cords proceeding from the 

 angles of the chambered organ," whence they pass into the 

 radials. None of them have permanently imperforate radials as 

 so many Palaeocrinoidea, the latter group remaining in an embry- 

 onic condition. 



6. In the Neocrinoidea, with the exception of Metacrinus and 

 Plicatocrinus, the axillary is the third of the primary radials ; 

 while in the Palaeocrinoidea the first radials themselves may be 

 axillary or any other plate bej^ond the first. 



7. The arms of the Neocrinoidea, with the exception of one or 

 two species of Encrinus, are uniserial, those of the Palaeocrinoidea 

 frequently biserial. 



8. The mouth and food grooves of all adult Neocrinoidea are 

 exposed to view ; in the Palagocrinoidea, with but few exceptions, 

 closed by plates. 



In most of these points we agree with the English scientist, 

 but in some of them we think modifications should be made, and 

 there is one point to which he did not give the importance which 

 we think it deserves. 



We agree with Carpenter that underbasals are rarely observed 

 in Neocrinoids, which, as we have stated elsewhere, are built 

 upon the plan of dicyclic Crinoids. The angles of the column 

 are directed interradially, the cirrhi radially; while the opposite 

 is the case in Actinocrinus, Glyptocrinus, Belemnocrinus, Hetero- 

 crinus, etc., which are known to be monocyclic, and we conclude 

 from this structure that all Neocrinoidea, or at least most of 

 them, in their larval state may have possessed rudimentary 

 underbasals hidden by the column. 



Among Neocrinoidea, Thaumatocrinus is the only genus in 

 which calyx interradials are evident, and it is very doubtful to us 

 whether even these plates, which rest within the ring of the first 

 radials, really are the homologues of the first interradials of the 

 Actinocrinidse, Platycrinidas or Cyathocrinidae. The interradials 

 of Thaumatocrinus were covered in the larva by the oral pyra- 

 mid ; while those of the young Palaeocrinoid form the whole of 

 the ventral surface. The so-called " interradials " of Guettardi- 

 crinus, Apiocrinus roissyayius, and Uintacrinus we take to be 




294 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



perisomic plates, and we cannot understand how Carpenter can 

 admit interradials in Apiocrinus roissyanus, and not in Apio- 

 crinus Meriani (De Loriol, Pal. Franc, tome xi, PI. 40), Apio- 

 crinus Ralhieri (Ibid., PI. 50) and Apiocrinus murchisonianus 

 (Ibid., PI. 53). But it is still more remarkable that in Apiocrinus 

 roissyanus Carpenter considers only the first row, and not the 

 succeeding ones also, as calyx plates. The latter are equally 

 solid, suturally connected, and rest like the first plate, between 

 the primary radials. 



In our opinion Carpenter lays too much stress upon the 

 asymmetry of the calyx in the Palseocrinoidea, which he attributes 

 to the intercalation of an anal plate. If the asymmetry of the 

 basals was due to that cause only, genera such as Eucalypto- 

 crinus, Coccocrinus, Mycocrinus, Dolatocrinus and Corymbo- 

 crinus, which have no anal plates in the calyx, should have very 

 regular basals, while in fact Eucalyptocrinus has the same basal 

 arrangement as Melocrinus, Dolatocrinus as Hexacrinus, Corymbo- 

 crinus as Abacocrinus, the last named of which all possess anal 

 plates. It is also well known that in Platycrinus and the Blas- 

 toidea, and all other genera with three unequal plates in the basal 

 ring, the smaller plate is always located to one side, not pos- 

 teriorly, and it is difficult to understand how in Haplocrinus the 

 asymmetry of the calyx could be attributed to an anal plate, or 

 to the anal opening, when the latter penetrates the very top of 

 the so-called "orals." We admit that the dorsal cup is more 

 frequently asymmetrical in Palreocrinoidea than in Neocrinoidea, 

 but exceptions are so numerous that we cannot attach to this 

 point the importance that Carpenter does, who considered the 

 s} T mmetry, or want of symmetry, to be the best distinction 

 between the two groups. We believe the condition of the mouth, 

 and that of the oral surface generally, is of much greater import- 

 ance, and proves to be a more constant character than any of 

 those to which attention has been directed. Carpenter thinks 

 Coccocrinus forms an exception to this rule, which he regards to 

 be in the condition of the Xeocrinoid genus Holopus, and that 

 consequently its mouth was exposed. If this were true, we should 

 not hesitate a moment to refer that genus to the Neocrinoidea, 

 as nothing would be left to make it a Paloeocrinoid, not even the 

 asymmetry. 



Carpenter denies that interradials are present as a rule in 




1885.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 295 



Palreozic Crinoids, and he, therefore, does not attach to these 

 plates the value which we think they deserve. According to our 

 interpretation they are present in all Palreocrinoids, but absent 

 or incompletely developed in the Neocrinoidea. By means of 

 the interradials the two groups differ essentially in their larval 

 state ; the whole ventral surface of the Neocrinoid larva is 

 covered by the orals, but in the Palseocrinoid larva the inter- 

 radials physiologically take their place, and the orals or their 

 equivalent is subtegminal. The indistinct calyx interradials, 

 which appear for a short period in the Pentacrinoid larva, be- 

 came resorbed before taking any prominent part in the formation 

 of the calyx, while the interradials of all Palsocrinoids are well 

 defined and permanent plates. It is possible that the interradials 

 of the Encrinidae were similarly resorbed shortly before the 

 Crinoid reached maturity, but they were evidently well developed 

 in their earlier life, as we may judge from their affinities with the 

 C} T athocriniclae and Poteriocrinida?, and this, principally, has in- 

 duced us to refer them to the Palaeocrinoidea. 



We propose the following definitions of the two groups : — 



PAL^EOQRHSTOIDEA Wachsmuth. 



Crinoids with irregularty pentamerous calyx ; plates united by 

 suture or articulation. Base monocyclic or dicyclic. Basals and 

 underbasals variable in number. First radials rarely in lateral 

 contact all around, two of them often separated by an anal plate, 

 and sometimes all of them by interradials. The succeeding plates 

 of the rays are free or become incorporated into the calyx. Arms 

 more frequently biserial than uniserial. There is always at least 

 one interradial to each side which is located ventrally, but when 

 there are a number of them, dorsally and ventrally. The interra- 

 dials extend to the summit plates or cover them, occup\ T the 

 greater portion of the ventral surface, and either form a vault 

 over the perisome or support the perisome ; in either case, how- 

 ever, mouth and disk ambulacra are completely closed. The 

 summit plates are substantially a repetition of the plates in the 

 calyx. They consist of an undivided plate which represents the 

 basals ; of the proximals or interradials and anals ; and frequently 

 of radial dome plates. 



NEOCRINOIDEA Carpenter. 



Crinoids with regularly pentamerous calyx, without interradial 

 or anal plates (Thaumatocrinus excepted). Underbasals rarely 




296 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



well developed, being either rudimentary or absent. Basals five, 

 exceptionally three. Radials perforated, and generally united to 

 succeeding plates by a muscular articulation. Rays simple or 

 dividing ; the lower arm joints frequently connected laterally by 

 perisome. The first axillary plate generally the second joint 

 after the first radial ; arms uniserial. Ventral surface completely 

 occupied by actinal structures, either simply membranous or 

 paved with irregular plates ; traversed by the ambulacra, which 

 have open food grooves. Orals five ; always represented in the 

 larva, but frequently resorbed in the adult ; at first in lateral 

 contact, but afterwards separating so as to open out the tentacular 

 vestibule, and expose the mouth. 



Classification. 



The " Stalked " Echinoderms, by which we understand the 

 Crinoidea in their widest sense, have been regarded by some 

 writers as constituting an independent class, by others as an 

 " order " of the class Echinodermata. The latter view, which has 

 been adopted by most of the later European systeniatists, was 

 somewhat modified in the classification of Dr. P. H. Carpenter, 

 who ranks the Stalked Echinoderms under the name " Pelma- 

 tozoa " as a " branch " of the " phylum " Echinodermata, and he 

 makes the Crinoidea — sensu str. — and the Cystidea and Blas- 

 toidea, full classes, of equal rank with the Holothurians, Echi- 

 noids, Asteroids and Ophiurids. 



The name Pelmatozoa, as stated by Carpenter (Chall Rep., p. 

 193), was introduced by Leuckart in an essay published in 1848, 

 and more fully discussed in 1865, in his " B'ericht iiber die wis- 

 senschaftlichen Leistungen in der Xaturgeschichte der niederen 

 Thiere." In the latter paper he subdivides the Echinodermata 

 into three groups : the Pelmatozoa, to include the Stalked Echi- 

 noderms, i. e., Crinoidea in the broadest sense; the Sc}'toder- 

 mata, to embrace the Holothurians ; and the Echinozoa, under 

 which he placed the Urchins, Starfishes and Ophiurans. 



That the Stalked Echinoderms and Holothurians are more 

 distinct from each other, and from the three groups for which 

 Leuckart proposed the name Echinozoa, than these are among 

 themselves, cannot be denied, but it is questionable whether it is 

 necessary or even desirable to express this in the classification, 

 any further than by placing in juxtaposition the nearest allied 

 groups. To.> many subdivisions encumber the classification, and 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



as long as the Scytoderniata and Echinozoa of Leuckart are not 

 accepted, we think it unnecessary to establish a branch for the 

 Pelraatozoa. In principle, however, we agree with Carpenter, 

 and admit that the "Pelmatozoa " differ very essentially " in the 

 presence of a stem, and in the consequent departure from the 

 ordinary habits of an Urchin, Starfish or Holothurian. Whether 

 sessile or provided with a stem, the Crinoid lies on its aboral 

 surface instead of creeping about mouth downwards in search of 

 food" (Chall. Rep., p. 193), and they differ also in having no 

 locomotor organs in connection with the ambulacral system (Ibid., 

 p. 188). All this, however, we think is sufficiently expressed by 

 giving the Pelmatozoa the rank of a class, and placing them at 

 the end of the list. 



In our opinion there is no doubt that J. S. Miller proposed the 

 name Crinoidea to designate exclusively the brachiate Crinoids, 

 for he stated in his description (A Nat. Hist. Crin., p. 7), that 

 " there proceed from the upper rim of the cup-like body five artic- 

 ulated arms, divided into tentaculated fingers," and among the 

 species which he refers to them there is neither a Blastoid nor a 

 Cystid. Unfortunately, however, later writers have used the name 

 in a twofold sense, designating thereb}^ the class and one of its 

 subdivisions, until lately Zittel, in his Handb. der Palreontologie, 

 to remedy this, proposed the name " Eucrinoidea " for the 

 " Brachiata" i. e., Crinoidea, sensu .s£r.,and "Crinoidea" to take the 

 name of the class, an arrangement which has since been accepted 

 by De Loriol. To conform to Miller's idea, the new term should 

 have been given to the class, and not to the subdivision. But as 

 Leuckart had alread}' proposed the collective name " Pelmatozoa," 

 which has priority, and is a more appropriate term than Crinoidea, 

 Zittel's scheme need not be discussed. 



Carpenter has placed the Blastoidea and Cystidea on a level 

 with the Crinoidea, making all three distinct classes, a rank to 

 which we think they are not entitled. The three groups, accord- 

 ing to our views, are mere modifications of the same plan which, 

 so far as known, originated in the Cystidea, and of which the 

 Blastoidea and Crinoidea are mere offshoots. The latter group, 

 but especially the Blastoidea, are linked together with the Cys- 

 tidea by such eas}' transitions, that among the earlier types it is 

 difficult to draw any clear line of demarkation. We are unable 

 to point out a single character that is not found exceptionally in 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



one of the other groups. We do not except the calicine pores or 

 the pectinated rhombs, -which are regarded as characteristic of 

 the Cystids, nor the lamellar tubes beneath the ambulacra, which 

 were thought to be restricted to the Blastoids. Even jointed arms 

 occur in many Cystids, and in some of them they are connected 

 with the radials in a similar manner as in the Crinoidea. 



We <lo not wish to enter upon a discussion of the structural 

 peculiarities of the Cj'stidea and Blastoidea, and, if we allude to 

 them here, it is onty to illustrate their close affinities with one 

 another, and with the Palaeocrinoidea. Asteroblastus, judging 

 from thecatyx, is a Cystid, but it has Blastoid ambulacra, 

 Blastoid pinnules, associated with ambulacral and calicine pores. 

 The same structure occurs in (?) Agelacrinus Pusirewskii Hof- 

 mann. On the other hand, the Blastoid genus Godaster has 

 neither spiracles nor ambulacral pores ; its hydrospires open out 

 like those of certain Cystidca, and they do not underlie the 

 ambulacra, but are placed alongside of them. Godaster was 

 referred b} r Billings and Zittel to the Cystidea, but is now 

 generally recognized as a Blastoid. Stephanocrinus has been 

 variously described as a Crinoid, Blastoid and Cystid. As 

 admitted b} r Carpenter, it has probably no hydrospires, and so 

 far as known no calicine pores nor pectinated rhombs, but it 

 possesses long Crinoid-like brachial appendages. Caryocrinus, 

 which has been very generally regarded as a Cystid, has seg- 

 mented pinnule-bearing arms like a Crinoid, and these are at- 

 tached to the radials, but it has calicine pores, and numerous 

 hydrospires along the inner floor of the calyx. Porocrinus has a 

 calyx and arms like a Cyathocrinoid, but calicine pores like a 

 Cystid. J/i/Ijocystites was described by Wetkerby as a Cystid ; 

 by Carpenter as a transition form between Crinoids and Blastoids, 

 but nearer the latter ; while we consider it a Crinoid. Its arm 

 structure is that of a Cystid, hut it has apparently neither calicine 

 pores, rhombs, nor lamellar tubes. The Crotalocrinidre and Euca- 

 Lyptocrinidse probably have hydrospires within the calyx, Cupres- 

 socriim.< and Symbathocrinus probably li3 T drospires underneath the 

 ambulacra, and both have segmented arms. 



These few examples, to which others might be added, will 

 sufficiently show that neither the Blastoidea and Cystidea, nor 

 the Crinoidea propel", form primary divisions like the Urchins, 

 Starfishes or Ophiurans, but constitute subordinate groups of the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Pelmatozoa. Carpenter admits on p. 191 the close affinities 

 between the Cystids and Blastoids, but the Crinoidea he takes to 

 be a well-defined group " b}^ having segmented arms attached to 

 the radials, contrary to the Cystids and Blastoids in which there 

 are either no arms at all, or structures of an entirely different 

 nature from those of the true Crinoids." We have already 

 directed attention to Caryocrinus and Porocrinus as having well- 

 developed arms, similar to those of Hybocrinns, and also calicine 

 pores. If we were to make the division between Crinoids and 

 Cystids upon the arm structure, and did not make the calicine 

 pores the principal distinction between those groups, Ave would 

 also have to place among the Crinoidea Comarocystites, which 

 has not only segmented arms but even pinnule-like appendages. 

 Neither could we leave out Glyptocystites and Pleurocyxtites, in 

 which the arms are long and lined with well-defined covering 

 plates. 1 



Burmeister (Zoonomische Briefe, Leipzig, 1856, vol. i, p. 243) 

 divided the " Crinoidea " into Anthodiata, among which he in- 

 cluded the Cystidea and Blastoidea, and " Brachiata " with 

 Tessellata, Articulata, Costata and the genus Holopus. This 

 arrangement, leaving out the Costata, which probably are not 

 Pelmatozoa at all, seems to us a very good one, and we find it 

 convenient to adopt his divisions as " subclasses," substituting, 

 however, for Burmeister's name Brachiata, Miller's older name 

 Crinoidea. This enables us to discriminate between Palaeocri- 

 noidea and Neocrinoidea on the one side, and Cystidea and 

 Blastoidea on the other, which, as we have stated, are more 

 distinct from one another than the groups which we place under 

 them. To make the Anthodiata and Crinoidea separate classes, 

 on a level with the Urchins, would give to them too much im- 

 portance. We doubt if Carpenter will claim them to be anj'thing 

 like as distinct groups as the Ophiurids and Starfishes, which 

 by some systematists were regarded as mere subgroups of the 



1 The Cystidea have never been properly defined. They form in our 

 opinion an assemblage of several groups of equal rank -with the Blastoidea. 

 S. A. Miller pointed out in the Cincinnati Journal of Xat. Hist., Dec. 1882, 

 the Licbinocrinoidea and Ajjelacrinoidea as orders of tbe Crinoidea ; the 

 latter name, however, must be changed to '•Edriasterida,'' as this has 

 priority. It was proposed by Prof. Huxley in his classification of animals, 

 London, 1869, p. 130 (Carpenter). 




300 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Stellerites. These, however, differ essentially in their mode of 

 development, which can hardl}' be claimed for the Anthodiata 

 and Crinoidea. We can only say of them that, as a rule, in the 

 former the organs generally were contained within the catyx, 

 whereas in the Crinoidea the generative and respiratory apparatus 

 is almost entirely confined to the arms, and probably neither 

 Blastoids nor Cystids had appendages united by paired muscular 

 bundles. The Pakeocrinoidea form parallel groups with the 

 Blastoidea, both being descendants of the Cystidea ; while the 

 relations of Palseocrinoidea and Neocrinoidea are similar to those 

 of Palseocrinoidea and C}'stidea, and Cystidea and Blastoidea; 

 but the Neocrinoidea, although they are of later descent, are 

 equally well defined. In making these four groups orders of the 

 Anthodiata and Crinoidea respectively, we place at the head of 

 the list the Cystidea, as being the typical form, the Blastoidea 

 next, and at the opposite end the Palseocrinoidea and Neocrinoidea. 



In correspondence with Dr. Carpenter he has admitted that 

 his classification tends to give an expression of well-marked 

 differences between Crinoids, Cystids and Blastoids, which, as 

 he stated on p. 191 of his Report, do not exist between the two 

 latter, and we are authorized to state that he concurs with us in 

 re-establishing Burmeister's Anthodiata and Brachiata, as we 

 have practically done, the former to include as " orders " the 

 C} r stidea and Blastoidea, the latter the Palasocrinoidea and Neo- 

 crinoidea. We believe, therefore, that there is very little differ- 

 ence between us on this point. 



Various other classifications have been proposed by different 

 writers, for which we refer to the Challenger Report, pp. 186-196. 

 The following classification will be adopted by us, viz. : — 



Phylum, ECIIINODERMATA. 



Class, Pelmatozoa. 



Subclass I, Anthodiata. Subclass II, Crinoidea {Brachiata). 



Order 1, Cystidea, etc Order 3, Palseocrinoidea. 



Order 2, Blastoidea. Order 4, Neocrinoidea. 



Class, Pelmatozoa. 



Definition} — Echinoderms which are fixed either permanent^ 



1 This and tin bucci ediDg definition is taken from Carpenter (Chall. Rep., 

 pp. 186), with a Blight alteration in the first one which is indicated by 

 italics. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



or temporarily by the middle of the aboral surface. A jointed 

 stem containing a neurovascular axis is usually present, but may 

 be lost when maturity is reached ; or in the case of a few sessile 

 forms, remain altogether undeveloped. The apical system con- 

 sists of a dorsocentral plate, basals and radials, with the frequent 

 addition of underbasals and interradials. These plates form a 

 cup, which either simply supports or more or less completely 

 encloses the visceral mass, and often bears jointed appendages, 

 the arms and pinnules. 



An oral system, to some extent a repetition of the plates in the 

 apical system, consisting of basals, radials and interradials, 

 covers the peristome, but may be altogether resorbed, or be re- 

 stricted to basals only. The anus either is located within the 

 calyx, and surrounded by abactinal plates, or forms a part of 

 the oral surface. 1 



The water vascular ring does not communicate directly with 

 the exterior, and the lateral branches of the radial vessels (when 

 present) are respiratory, but not locomotor in function. 



Subclass, Crinoidea. 

 Definition. — Pelmatozoa, in which the radial plates of the 

 calyx bear more or less branching arms. These consist of 

 segments which are articulated by means of muscles and liga- 

 ments, and in most cases bear similar jointed appendages, the 

 pinnules. The nervous sj^stem consists (1) of a central organ 

 situated in the calyx, and fibres extending from it through the 

 skeleton of the stem, arms and pinnules ; (2) of a circumoral 

 ring and radial extensions which are in close relation with the 

 ciliated epithelium of the ambulacral grooves. These are more or 

 less extensively distributed on the ventral surface of the disk, 

 arms and pinnules ; and are bordered by groups of tentacles 

 which alternate on opposite sides. When they are absent, the 

 radial water vessels give off no tentacular branches. The water 

 vascular ring opens by five or more water tubes into the body 

 cavity, which itself communicates with the exterior by a corres- 



1 Carpenter's version: "An oral system, consisting of a central plate 

 (orocentral) and five orals, is developed above the peristome of the larva 

 to a very variable extent, and may be either altogether resorbed, or reacb 

 a high degree of importance by the appearance of additional plates so as to 

 form a vault or tegmen calycis. The anus is situated on the oral surface, 

 which may be bare, or more or less covered by calcareous plates. ' ' 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



ponding number of water pores. The mouth is central, except 

 in a few genera, and the anus subcentral or excentric. The 

 genital glands are lodged in the lower parts of the arms, but are 

 usually fertile only in the pinnules. 



The Subdivisions of the Palseocrinoidea. 



Among the Palaeocrinoidea we recognize three great divisions, 

 which on the whole correspond to our former groups, Sphoeroido- 

 crinidae, Echthyocrinidse and Cyathocrinidae. These groups, 

 which arc divisible into definite subgroups, will be ranked by us 

 as suborders of the Palseocrinoidea, and the subgroups as fami- 

 lies. The three suborders, for which we have proposed the names 

 Camarata, Articulata and Inadunata, are distinguished from one 

 another principally by the mode of union among the calyx plates, 

 and the condition of the arms as to whether their lower plates 

 constitute a part of the calyx, and as such enclose the visceral 

 cavity, or form parts of the free arms. These groups are not 

 only well defined in nature, as shown by the fact that they are so 

 readily recognized, but they are also most convenient for all de- 

 scriptive and comparative work. 



When we first defined the three groups (Rev., i and ii), we laid 

 the greatest stress upon the construction of the ventral surface, 

 which, as we stated, offered most excellent characters for their 

 separation ; but as the modifications which take place among 

 them, to a large extent, result from the conditions of calj-x and 

 arms, we regard the structure of their ventral side as of subordi- 

 nate rank. This necessitates a re-description of those groups, 

 especially as our present views upon the ventral plates generally 

 differ essentially from those previously held by us. 



We have stated that the so-called "orals," upon which the 

 "Cyathocrinidae" — the Inadunata of our new classification — were 

 at that time principally founded, are interradials, which attained 

 their ventral position by being in lateral contact, in place of 

 resting laterally against the lower arm plates. The construction 

 of the ventral surface in the earlier Inadunata thereby became 

 fundamentally identical with that of the " Sphaeroidocrinidae," 

 except that the latter attained subsequently a larger number of 

 interradials. In the later Inadunata the ventral structure is very 

 different; indeed, so much so that the two sections according to 

 our former views should have been distinctly separated. This we 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



had contemplated, but we encountered great difficulties, as the 

 two forms run very closely from one into the other. Even the 

 ventral sac, the best distinguishing character, undergoes all 

 possible modifications. It dwindles down to almost nothing in 

 some of them, and its porous nature is sometimes very indistinctly 

 developed or even unrepresented. We regard these modifications, 

 as they, occur in palseontological times, as representing various 

 stages of development in the historj' of this group, and as good 

 generic characters, but do not attach to them the importance we 

 did before. We have, however, placed the genera in which a 

 ventral sac is developed as a group by themselves, to separate 

 them from those in which it is absent. The latter group, which 

 represents the larval form, w*ill be designated by us as " Larvi- 

 f omnia " the former as " Fidulata." 



Instead of the name Splncroidocriniclae, which is objectionable 

 for several reasons, we propose to use Camarata, under which we 

 have placed several additional groups. To the Articulala (nobis, 

 not Miiller or Miller), which we restrict to the articulated Palseo- 

 crinoidea, we refer the Ichthyocrinidre and Crotalocrinidae. If 

 there is any objection to re-establishing Midler's name, which 

 has been generally discarded, we might change Articulata into 

 "Articulosa." We think, however, we are fully entitled to adopt 

 the former, as the Crinoids which we refer to them are true 

 Articulata in Midler's sense. We place the Camarata, which we 

 regard as the typical form of the Palaeocrinoidas, at the head of 

 the list, the Articulata next, and the Inadunata, which in some 

 respects approach the Neocrinoidea, at the opposite end. 



The Camarata embrace all Palseocrinoidea in which the plates 

 of the test are solidly united by suture, and in which the lower 

 arm plates are incorporated by means of interradial plates so as 

 to form a part of the calyx. The underbasals are frequently 

 undeveloped. The basals of monocyclic genera are variable in 

 number, five being the exception. The primary radials consist 

 generally of three plates to each ray, rarely of two or four. 

 There is always at least one secondary radial, which ma}* give 

 off the free arms or support others, and frequentl}* radials of 

 higher orders. Interradials numerous, or not less than two; the 

 first one resting upon the sloping upper sides of the first radials, 

 or alternating with them. The interradials, together with the 

 interaxillaries and anal plates, separate the rays and their sub- 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



divisions, and cover the greater part of the ventral surface up to 

 the summit plates, or the whole of it including the latter. The 

 free anus are simple or branching, and with a few exceptions 

 biserial. uniserial only in their immature state, permanently only 

 in a few Silurian genera. The articulation of the arms is primitive, 

 and dorsal canals have never been observed. All have pinnules, 

 which as a rule are closely folded together. The anus is sur- 

 rounded by solid plates, suturally connected; its position is 

 excentric, except in the Eucalyptocrinidse. 



The summit plates are largely developed, and consist in all 

 Carboniferous, and in most of the Devonian genera, of an undi- 

 vided oral plate, proximals, and frequently one or more radials ; 

 in most of the Silurian forms, however, of orals only, and even 

 these may be covered b}^ interradials. The disk is subtegminal, 

 but sometimes the covering pieces enter the outer surface, when 

 they lake the condition of surrounding plates. The Camarata 

 have small openings along the brachial zone, by means of which 

 the water for respiration entered the body. 



To the Articulata we refer all Paloeocrinoidea in which the 

 test is pliable. The calyx extends to the lower arm joints, and 

 the plates are united by articulation, and not by suture. Under- 

 basals are always represented ; they are small, being frequently 

 covered by the column, and consist of either three or five plates. 

 The number of primary radials varies from two to seven or more, 

 and also the number of the higher orders is very variable. The 

 radials of different rays are either in contact laterally or connected 

 by the help of interradials. In the former case, frequently, a 

 smaller number of radials alternates with a larger one, and the 

 plates of one ray rest with their upper sloping sides against 

 the lower sloping sides of their fellows of adjoining rays, or vice 

 versa. When the radials are separated by interradials, these 

 either extend to the basals, or rest against the upper sloping sides 

 of the fust radials. In some cases, however, the interradials are 

 restricted to tin? ventral surface. The form of the calyx varies 

 from almost strictly pentamerous to bilateral S3'mmetry, but it 

 sometimes becomes irregular, owing to the interposition of an 

 azygous plate. Some species have no anal plate dorsally. The 

 radial ami arm plates are united horizontally by muscles and 

 ligament, or perhaps in some case ^ li\ ligament only. The Lateral 

 face of the radials and those of the interradials are provided with 

 deep ligamental fossa?. The arms are closely folded together, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



and sometimes connected laterally by a membranous substance. 

 The ventral surface, so far as known, is composed of interradial 

 plates ; it forms a pliable vault, which extends to the free rays, 

 and probably covers not only the disk, but also the summit 

 plates. The Crotalocrinidre have no anambulacral pieces, but 

 possess hydrospires within the calyx. 



The Inadunata are subdivided into Larviformia and Fistulata. 

 They include all Palaeocrinoidea in which the arms are free from 

 the first radials. Their calyx is comparatively small ; composed 

 exclusively of basals, frequently underbasals, five radials, five 

 interradials, and one or two azygous plates. The proximal ring 

 of plates, whether basal or underbasal, is composed of five, or 

 less frequentby, three plates. The radials are laterally connected 

 except at the posterior side, where they are separated by an 

 azygous and anal plate, if these have not been resorbed. The 

 presence of the azygous plate gives to the calyx a ver} 7 irregular 

 outline. The interradials are located ventrally; they rest against 

 the upper ends of two adjoining radials, and join along their 

 lateral margins. 



The ventral covering of the Larviformia consists of com- 

 paratively few pieces, among which generally the combined muscle 

 plates form a conspicuous part. The central space is covered 

 either exclusively by interradials, or these enclose an oral plate, 

 which in some of the higher forms is surrounded by proximals. 

 The disk is subtegminal in place of being extended into a lateral 

 sac. The anal opening either penetrates the interradials, or is 

 placed intermediate between two radials or their appendages. 

 Respiration took place b} r pores along the arm furrows, which 

 probably communicated with hydrospires. 



In the higher organized Fistulata the perisome is partly or 

 wholly exposed, the interradial plates either cover the perisome, 

 or this parti}' covers them. In the latter case the summit plates 

 may be resorbed, in the former they are largely represented ; but 

 in either case portions of the disk penetrate the catyx posteriorly 

 b} T passing out through the anal opening. These portions form 

 either a balloon-shaped or a tubular sac, composed of well-defined 

 plates, closed at the end, but perforated over the surface by pores 

 along the suture lines ; the pores penetrating the lateral edges of 

 the plates. Respiration took place by means of the pores alono- 

 the perisome. 

 21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Phylum, ECHINODERMATA. 



Class, PELMATOZOA. 



Subclass, Crinoidea. 



Order, PAL^OCRIXOIDEA. 



Suborder, CAMARATA. 



The Cam ar at a embrace the Platycrinidte, Actinocrinidae and 

 Rhodocrinida?. which in Part II we grouped together under the 

 name Sphaeroidocrinidse, and also the Acrocrinidae and Calypto- 

 crinida?, wliich are here described. 



In a paper on Glyptoerinus and Reteocrinus, Amer. Journ. Sci., 

 vol. xxv, April, 1883, we intimated on p. 267, that we might find 

 it advisable to place Glyptoerinus, Reteocrinus and allied genera 

 in a family by themselves. This had been done by Zittel, and 

 has since been adopted by S. A. Miller, under the name of Glyp- 

 tocrinidflft. Zittel included in this family Glyjdocrinus, Glyptas- 

 ter, Thylacocrinus, Cupulocrinus, Lampterocrinus, Eucrinus and 

 Sagenocrinus, genera all having well developed nnderbasals, with 

 the exception of Glyptoerinus, in which the}- were said to be ru- 

 dimentary. Miller's (jlyptocrinidae contain Archaeoerinus, Cu- 

 pulocrinus, Glyptaster, Lampterocrinus, Reteocrinus and his pro- 

 posed genus Gaurocrinus, all having underbasals, and Glyptoeri- 

 nus, Xenocrinus and his Compsocrinus and Pycnocrinus, which 

 he described as having but one ring of plates below the radials. 



The presence of underbasals has been very generally considered 

 a good family distinction, and it has always been a question of- 

 doubt with us whether we were justified in departing from this 

 rule by placing Glyptoerinus and Xenocrinus, in which under- 

 basals were said to be absent or indistinctly developed, in the 

 same group with Reteocrinus and Archaeoerinus, in which those 

 plates form a more or less important part. The genera which 

 Miller has grouped together, and a few more, asiree remarkably 

 in general aspect, but they differ not only in the matter of under- 

 basals, in the number of basals. but also very materially in the 

 disposition and form of their interradial plates. 



Glyptoerinus was originally described as possessing no under- 

 basals. Hall afterwards discovered minute pieces enclosed by 

 the ring of plates which he had previously designated as basals, 

 and which he now called subradials, taking the small inner pieces 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 307 



for the true representatives of the basals. The presence of these 

 small pieces was also acknowledged by Meek and ourselves, but 

 Meek hesitating to call them basals, applied the name " sub- 

 basals;" while we took them to be rudimentary underbasals, and 

 as such the3 r have been described in Part II of the Revision, and 

 in our April paper. 



We have stated elsewhere, that in all Crinoids having basals 

 only, the column, when pentagonal, has its angles directed radi- 

 ally, the radii of the pentapetaloid or five rayed columnar canal 

 interradially, and that the opposite is the case in all species, 

 throughout all Palffiocrinoidea in which underbasals are present. 

 Applying this rule to Glyptocrinus and allied genera, we find that 

 every species referred by us to Glyptocrinus, is without under- 

 basals, and that all those, with one or two exceptions, which we 

 placed under Beteocrinus,h&ve underbasals. The exceptional spe- 

 cies are Glyptocrinus Richardsoni Wetherby, of which we speak 

 later on, and Meek's Glyptocrinus Baeri, which we found to be a 

 Xenocrinus, having four basals and a subquadrangular column ; 

 but, like Xenocrinus and Mariacrinus, a pentangular axial canal, 

 its angles directed strictly interradially. By carefully grinding off 

 the base in Gl. decadactylus, and in several other species, we have 

 become satisfied that the pieces which have been designated by 

 Hall, Meek and ourselves heretofore, respectively, as basals, sub- 

 basals, and rudimentary underbasals, form no part of the calyx, 

 but constitute the uppermost portion of the column, which in this 

 genus rests within a remarkably deep, funnel-shaped concavity. 



Among the species arranged by Miller under Glyptocrinus, and 

 which were said to have no underbasals, are Glyptocrinus Rich- 

 ardsoni Wetherby, and Gl. Pattersoni Miller. In Rev., Part II, 

 and subsequently in our paper in the Amer. Journal, these species 

 were placed under Reteocrinus Billings. In neither one of them 

 have underbasals been observed, although these plates may be 

 present, hidden beneath the column, as in the case of many Rho- 

 docrinidae and Poteriocrinidse. The species differ, however, very 

 materially from Gl. decadactylus and allied species without under- 

 basals in the distribution and position of their interradial plates, 

 which are irregularly arranged, and rest upon the five basals, ex- 

 actly as they do in Reteocrinus stellaris and in R. CfNealli, which, 

 contrary to the other species, have well developed underbasals. 

 The case is similar in Xenocrinus penicillus Miller, only that in 




PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



this species underbasals are known to be absent, and the}' have 

 four in place of five basals. Any difference in the number of 

 basals has been generally considered a good generic distinction, 

 and this make- Xenocrinus, undoubtedly, a good genus. But in 

 which group shall we place it? Together with Ileteocrinus or 

 Glyptocrinus? Together with species in which the interradials 

 rest upon the basals, and which have well developed underbasals, 

 or with species destitute of underbasals, and with their interra- 

 dials. as in Glyptocrinus, resting upon the first radials? 



In Part II we maintained that, as a rule, the presence or ab- 

 sence of underbasals should be considered of more than generic 

 importance, and this we made the principal distinction between 

 Actinocrinidae and Rhodocrinidae. We pointed out, however, 

 that in these families there are several genera, among the earlier 

 types, which are closely connected by transition forms, and shade 

 almost imperceptibly from one into another. We even thought 

 it possible that species of the same genus might possess under- 

 basals in a rudimentary way, while those plates might be totally 

 absent in others. This is not confirmed by our later investiga- 

 tions, but it is nevertheless by no mean- an easy task to separate 

 some of the earlier genera upon this character, as there are fre- 

 quently other important features by which they are much more 

 closeby connected with other groups. In proof of this we need 

 only refer to Glyptocrinus Richardsoni, provided this really 

 possesses no underbasals, a- Miller asserts, and to Ileteocrinus 

 O'Nealli, in which 1 hey are very conspicuous. As the two species 

 are almost identical in every other respect, it would seem doubt- 

 ful policy to refer them to distinct families upon this character 

 alone. S. A. Miller evidently experienced the same difficulty, for 

 his Glyptocrinidae include genera of both forms. Zittel, De Lo- 

 rial, and all preceding writer-, make the presence of underbasals 

 a full family distinction, and all their Glyptocrinidae and Rhodo- 

 crinidae are -aid to have underbasals. 



Diversities in the distribution of the interradial plates of the 

 calyx have been generally taken to be of minor morphological 

 importance; hut at the same time they have been considered good 

 characters for distinguishing genera. S. A. Miller alone has 

 placed in the same genus species, which in this respect show the 

 greatest possible contrast. It is, however, rather singular that 

 he applies this rule only to the - Glyptocrinidae," while in other 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



groups he considers such difference to be at least of generic im- 

 portance, and what is more singlar, he even constructed thereon 

 a whole family. His Melocrinidae differ from his Actinocrinidae 

 mainly in having all five inter radial spaces arranged almost uni- 

 formly, and they generally have Pour basals. That Miller did not 

 make the number of basals the distinctive character, is very evi- 

 dent, or he would have arranged his Xenocrinus penicillus and 

 " Compsocrinus" Harrisi among the Melocrinidae. On the con- 

 trary, he placed these species under distinct genera; while he re- 

 ferred Glyptocrinus decadactylus and Reteocrinus Richardsoni to 

 the same genus, although these two differ in exactly the same 

 way as the two former species. 



One is curious to know upon what ground Miller based his 

 Glyptocrinidae. Not upon the underbasals, nor upon the relative 

 number of basals ; neither upon the riclges along the radials, for 

 these are absent in Cupulocrinus and Lampterocrinus, and cer- 

 tainly not upon the ornamentation, which he asserts does not 

 hold good even among those genera. They are united by no 

 single character, and since it has been clearly proved that Glyp- 

 tocrinus has no underbasals, this genus no longer falls within the 

 Rhodocrinidae, which were fundamentally based upon the pres- 

 ence of those plates, and must be referred to the Actinocrinidae. 

 That Glyptocrinus was in many respects closely allied to the Ac- 

 tinocrinidae, subdivision Melocrinites, has been shown already 

 in Part II, and several species were at first described under Glyp- 

 tocrinus, which we have since referred to Mariacrinus. Among 

 these is Gl. Harrisi, for which Miller lately proposed the genus 

 Compsocrinus. The generic definition of Gompsocrinus is partly 

 based upon inaccurate observation, for the interradials of all five 

 sides rest upon the edges of the first radials, and not one of them 

 upon a basal, as figured by Miller in his diagram pi. 11, fig. 4, a. 



It has been stated in Part II, p. 185, that the interradials of all 

 known Actinocrinidae, except sometimes those of the azygous 

 side, rest upon the first radials. and this is the case in Glyptocri- 

 nus and "Compsocrinus." We find an apparent exception to this 

 rule, if we make the absence of underbasals the controlling family 

 character, in t lie genus Xenocrinus, and perhaps in Glyptocrinus 

 Richardsoni and Gl. Patter son i, in which underbasals have not 

 been observed. The two latter species agree in all essential par- 

 ticulars with Xenocrinus, in which we include not only Miller's 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



type, but also Ghjptocrinits Baeri Meek. These two species, how- 

 ever, have four basals, while the two former ones have five. 

 Equally close arc the affinities with Reteocrinus, which has well 

 defined underbasals. Xenocrinus, Reteocrinus, and Gli/ptocrinus 

 Richardsoni, which we make the type of our new genus Canistro- 

 crinus, agree in the following features : The plates of the live 

 main rays and their branches are formed into tube-like ridges 

 along the middle, with lateral extensions to meet the interradials. 

 The interradial areas are deepty depressed; composed of numer- 

 ous minute, irregularly arranged plates. The} r abut against the 

 basals and isolate the first radials to their full length. The 

 azygous interradius is divided by a conspicuous, rounded ridge, 

 composed of strong, comparatively large plates, longitudinally 

 arranged, which slightly decreasing in size, extend out to the 

 subcentral anal opening. 



Reteocrinus, Xenocrinus and Canistrocrinus constitute a natu- 

 ral, well defined group, and it seems to us impracticable to separate 

 them upon the ground that some of the species possess under- 

 basals. The lateral separation of the first radial plates distin- 

 guishes them from all Actinocrinidae, and this, according to P. 

 Herb. Carpenter, 1 " is a fact of considerable importance in Crin- 

 oid morphology ; but in this very character they approach some- 

 what the Rhodocrinites, in which, as a rule, the first interradials 

 all around meet the basals. Among the Rhodocrinites, however, 

 the lower interradials are perfectly regular plates, their position is 

 fixed, and they are succeeded by equally regular pieces. Whether 

 such widely different plates, as here represented, can be compared 

 with each other, is very doubtful, and this seems to have been the 

 opinion of Carpenter, who intimates that the irregular small pieces 

 of Reteocrinus can hardly be regarded as the complete morpho- 

 logical equivalents of the larger and more regular single inter- 

 radials which occur in the Rhodocrinidae." That these irregular 

 interradial plates occur in none of the later groups of the Palaeo- 

 crinoidea, but only in the very earliest Silurian types, and under 

 decidedly similar conditions, in species with and without under- 

 basals, points clearly to the conclusion, that those genera consti- 

 tute a little group by themselves, and we think this justifies us in 



1 On a New Crinoid from the Southern Sea by P. Herb. Carpenter, M. A., 

 Philos. Tians. of the Roy. Soc, Part III, 1883. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



recognizing them as a distinct family, -which we propose to call 

 Reteocrinidae. 



Now, having referred the genus Glyptocrinus in its typical 

 form, and " Glyptocrinus" (Compsocrinus) Harrisi Miller,— Ma- 

 riacrinus Harrisi, to the Actinocrinidse or their allies, Reteocri- 

 wws, Xenocrinus, and our new genus Canistocrinus to the Rtteo- 

 crinidse, there remain for consideration among species with under- 

 basals, or Rhodocrinidae,as they were previously called, two other 

 groups : 



(a.) Species, in which all five primary interradials meet the 

 basals, forming a ring of ten plates with the first radials. 



(6.) Species, in which the first anal plate only rests upon the 

 basals, the interradials upon the edges of the first radials. The 

 first group comprises the genera : Archseocrinus, our new genus 

 Rhaphanocrinus, Lyriocrinus, Rhipidocrinus, Tlnjlacoerinus, An- 

 themocrirms, Rhodocrinus, and Ollacrinus; the second Glyptaster, 

 DimerocrinuSj Ptychocrinus and Lavipterocrinus. The former 

 group agrees with our subdivision Rhodocrinites, except Archse- 

 ocrinus, which we had previously arranged under Glyptocrinites ; 

 the latter corresponds with our former Glyptasterites. 



It might be as well, perhaps, to let these groups remain as sub- 

 divisions of the Rhodocrinidae ; but, as it is desirable that the 

 families proposed by various authors in the different classifica- 

 tions should be made to correspond as far as possible, we follow 

 Zittel, and rank them as full families. The first, as embracing 

 the t3'pical genus, will be Rhodocrinidse. Zittel's name, Glypto- 

 crinidae, however, cannot be used for the other group, since it is 

 known that Glyptocrinus has no underbasals. We propose in its 

 place the name Glyptasteridae, Glyptaster being one of its most 

 characteristic types. 



These divisions are substantially in conformitj' with the views 

 of Carpenter, expressed in his paper on Thaumatocrinus, p. 929. 

 He approves ZitteFs division into Glyptocrinidae and Rhodocrini- 

 dse, but acknowledges at the same time ''that Glyptocrinus has de- 

 cided affinities with the Actinocrinidae." His views upon the irregu- 

 lar plates of Reteocrinus have alreadj' been quoted. The rounded 

 ridges along the radials, as they appear in Reteocrinus and Xeno- 

 crinus, are more than mere ornamentations. They seem to have 

 contained tubular passages which, perhaps, may represent the axial 

 canals, while the more angular ridges of Glyptocrinus, Glyptaster 7 




312 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



etc., must be considered simply as an ornamentation of the calyx. 

 They represent, as stated by Carpenter, " a character of alto- 

 gether minor importance as compared with the morphological 

 difference between the lateral union and the isolation of the 

 radiate." 



In Part II we have placed under Actinocrinidae all Crinoids 

 without underbasals, in which the interradial plates are connect- 

 ed by suture, and the basals support the radials, and frequently 

 a large anal plate, but none of the regular interradials. This ex- 

 cluded the allied genus Acrocrinus, in which basals and radials 

 are separated by a large number of accessory pieces. We ex- 

 cepted also the Galyptocrinidae with Eucalyptocrinus and Calli- 

 crinus, which differ essentialby in their vault structure, and the 

 Barrandeocrinidse for other reasons to be explained hereafter. 



The Actinocrinidse, as they were defined b}^ us, comprise a well- 

 defined natural group ; and we find it difficult to subdivide them, 

 unless it be upon the presence or absence of an anal plate in line 

 with the first radials, i. e., the bilateral symmetry of the one group 

 as contrasted with the more or less pentamerous symmetry in the 

 other. In making this division, we place the Stelidiocrinites and 

 Melocrinites with their almost regular sj-mmetry in the one 

 group, and the Agaricocrinites, Periechocrinites, Actinocrinites 

 and Batocrinites in the other, the former as Melocrinidas, the lat- 

 ter as Actinocrinidae. 



Etoemer, Lethaea Geogn., 1855 (Ausg. 3), p. 228, distinguished 

 Melocrinidae from Actinocrinidse, the latter on account of their 

 larger azygous interradius, and having three in place of four 

 basals. Zittel partly recognized these groups, but added to the 

 Melocrinidse Scyphocrinus Zenker (not Hall), Corymbocrinus and 

 Abacocrinus, the hitter with an anal plate upon the basals, thus 

 proving that he made the number of basals the distinctive char- 

 acter. He divided our Actinocrinidae into the families Briaro- 

 crinidee, Carpocrinidae, Dinner oci'inidse, Actinoc?'inidee and Poly- 

 peltidae. 



Our Platynicridae were subdivided into Plat3 r crinites and Hex- 

 acrinites, the one with strictly pentamerous symmetry in the 

 calyx, the other bilateral. The two groups are easily recognized, 

 and will be continued., but ranked as families. 



The Platycrinidse have been described by us and other writers 

 as having a single interradial plate in contact with the radials. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



This was based upon an incorrect understanding of the plates. 

 That it is not the case in Platycrinus is readily seen by our fig- 

 ures on pi. 7. Even the most simple form has three interradials, 

 horizontally arranged, all supported by the first radial plates, and 

 we are convinced that three, or a greater number of plates, are 

 found in all other Platycrinidae, and all Hexacrinidae. Wherever 

 we have observed them, the middle plate is larger, and rests upon 

 the juncture of two first radials, the outer ones upon their upper 

 face, meeting laterally the higher radials. The larger number 

 occurs in forms with flattened disc and wide, spreading rays. 



The presence of three or more pieces in the first row, which 

 evidently represent the first, second, and perhaps third ranges 

 of interradials in other groups, is morphologically of consider- 

 able importance, as it seems to have produced, to a large extent, 

 the structural peculiarities of the two families. It is evident that, 

 owing to the great width of the interradial areas, the succeeding 

 radials could make no connection with the higher interradials, 

 and the rays thereby became isolated, and remained permanently 

 in a more or less embryonic state. Three interradials seem to 

 have been represented also in Coccocrinus, as shown in Roemer's 

 figure 5 C of G. bacca, although they are not figured in his Cocco- 

 crinus rosaceus. 



We also refer to the Camarata the genus Barrandeocrinus. It 

 was made by Angelin, Zittel and De Loriol the type of a distinct 

 family, and this seems to be warranted b} r its exceedingly strange 

 form, produced principally b} r the construction of the arms and 

 the arrangement of the plates at the ventral side, although the 

 plates along the dorsal side are arranged similarly to those of 

 the Actinocrinidae. 



The Camarata, according to our classification, fall into ten 

 families : 



A. Keteocrinid^e. Base monocj^clic or dieyclie. Basals 4 

 or 5. Radials folded into strong tubular longitudinal ridges 

 along the median line of the plates. Interradial and interaxil- 

 lary areas deeply depressed ; resting upon the basals. They are 

 composed of a large number of ill-formed immovable pieces, 

 which continue to the ventral side, almost completely covering 

 the interpalmar areas, leaving but a small oral plate at the centre. 

 Azygous side wider; divided by a vertical row of rather large 




314 PROCEEDINGS OP TIIE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



anal plates, which extend to the anal aperture. Arms single- 

 jointed ; pinnules strong. Anus subcentral. Column circular 

 or angular. 



B. RuoDocRiNiDiE. Base dicyclic. First radials separated 

 from one another by the first interraclials, with which they form 

 a ring of ten plates around the basals. Interradial areas com- 

 posed of well-formed plates, definitely arranged; azygous side 

 scarcely distinct. The interradials in all earlier forms along the 

 ventral side are arranged like those of the Reteocrinidre, and the 

 proximals are probably unrepresented ; but in the later ones prox- 

 imals are well developed. Anus subcentral. Column circular 

 or obtusely pentangular. 



G. G-i-YPTASTELiiDiE. Base dicyclic. First anal plate resting 

 on the basals, but the first interradials not touching them. Suc- 

 ceeding interradials arranged as in the Rhodocrinidae. Those 

 upon the ventral surface are sometimes composed of larger plates 

 than in the preceding groups. Anus subcentral. Oral piece and 

 proximals well represented. Column circular or pentangular. 



D. Melocrinid^e. B.ise monocyclic. Basals 3 to 5. Neither 

 anal nor interradial plates touching the basals; the latter in con- 

 tact with radials only. Interradial areas composed of numerous 

 plates; those upon the dorsal side large, regularly arranged, 

 those along the ventral surface frequently small and irregular. 

 Oral plate generally surrounded by proximals. Anus subcentral. 

 Column circular, rarely angular. 



E. AcTiNocRiNiDiE. Base monocyclic. Basals 3, rarely 4. 

 First anal plate resting on basals, the first -interradials upon the 

 sloping sides of the first radials. The interradials together with 

 the interax diaries, anal plates and proximals, form a solid vault 

 over the disk, rarely exposing any of the covering plates. Anus 

 subcentral. Column circular. 



jF. Plat Yi rim im;. Base monoc3 r clic. Basals unequal. Neither 

 anal nor interradial plates touching the basals. First radials 

 extremely large, forming with the basals almost the whole dorsal 

 aspect of the calyx. Second radial small and short, and likewise 

 the higher orders of radials, which in place of being connected 

 by interradials, are formed into lateral branches or free append- 

 ages. Interraclials three at least, generally more; all located 

 more or less ventrally. The lower range contains no special anal 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELrilTA. 315 



plate. It consists of from three to five pieces, transversely 

 arranged ; the middle one larger, resting upon the sloping upper 

 ends of two first radials ; the outer ones abutting against the 

 large primar} r and smaller succeeding radials. Oral piece large, 

 generally surrounded by proxiraals, which are very prominent. 

 Covering plates frequently exposed upon the surface. Anus 

 subcentral. Column circular or oval. 



G. Hexacrinidje. Base monocyclic. Basals 2 or 3. First 

 anal plate resting on basals, and similar in form to first radials ; 

 other plates arranged as in Platycrinidae. Cabvx with similar 

 armdike extensions. Column circular. 



H. AcROCRiNiD^E. Base monocyclic. Basals 2, separated from 

 the radials by a wide belt of small plates, which are arranged in 

 rings around the basals, and occupy the greater part of the dorsal 

 side. Radials 3X5, increasing in size upwards, all isolated later- 

 ally. Interradials in two rows ; two plates in the lower series, 

 one only in the upper, but the latter larger than the two others. 

 Azygous interradius comparatively much wider, and composed 

 of twice the number of pieces, in addition to the anal plates 

 which form a vertical line. Column circular. 



/. Barrandeocrinid^. Base monocyclic. Basals 3. First 

 anal plate resting on basals ; the interradials upon the sloping 

 upper sides of the first radials. Arms recumbent ; united laterally 

 by their pinnules, and together with these forming a solid integu- 

 ment around the calyx. Column circular, large. 



J. EucALYPTOCRiNiD-a;. Base monocyclic. The dorsal side 

 uniformly composed of 4 basals, 3X5 primary radials, 2X10 sec- 

 ondary radials, 3X5 interradials, and 1X5 inteiaxillaries, there 

 being no anal plates. The ventral side consists of 5 large inter- 

 radials, 5 similar interaxillaries, and 1 small trigonal interbrachial 

 pieces, which form a ring around the dorsal cup, and are suc- 

 ceeded by the summit plates. The summit plates iorm a neck-like 

 prolongation. They consist of 4 large proximals which con- 

 stitute a ring by themselves, of two small proximals, and the 

 oral plate. The latter is bisected and pushed to opposite sides 

 by the anal opening, which is strictly central. The plates of the 

 ventral side are formed into 10 compartments for the reception 

 of ten pairs of arms. Column circular. 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Family I.— RETEOCRINIDJE W. & Sp. 

 RETEOCRINUS Bill 



1881. W. & Sp., Rev. II., p. 191. 



L883. W. & Sp.. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. xxv April), p. 356-268. 

 L884. I'. Herb. Carpenter, Phil. Trans. Royal Boa, Pt. Ill, lsS3, pp. 919- 

 933. 

 Sy/i. Glyptocrinua (in part), Miller; Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. , 



vol. v, April, 1882. 

 Syn. Gaurocrinus Miller (in part). Ibid. vol. vi, December, 1883. 



Reteocrinus is readily distinguished from the other Reteocrin- 

 idae by its well developed underbasals, which extend beyond the 

 limits of the column. From our former list we withdraw Reteo- 

 crinus Baeri, which is a Xenocrinus, and Reteocrinus Richard- 

 soni Wetherby, which we make the t3 T pe of our new genus Can- 

 istrocrin us. 



One more species must be added : 



*188:S. Reteocrinus magnificus (S. A. Miller), Gaurocrinus magnificus, Journ. 

 Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi. p. 230, PI. 9, fig. 2. — Hudson River gr. — 

 Lebanon, 0. 



CANISTROCRINUS, nov. gen. 

 {jcaviargov, a willow basket ; xpivov, a lily.) 



Syn. Glyptocrinus (in part) S. A. Miller, 1883, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 



Hist., vol. vi., p. 220. 

 Syn. Udun'riiiUK in part; \Y. A: Sp., Amur. Journ. Sci., vol. xxv, p. 266. 



Generic Diagnosis.. — In general aspect closely resembling 

 Reteocrinus. The radial ridges strong, tube-like; the interradial 

 spaces deeply depressed. Symmetry decidedly bilateral. 



Underbasals perhaps indistinctly developed, more probably 

 altogether absent. Basals five, truncated above for the reception 

 of the lower series of interradials. Primary radials 3X5, of 

 nearly equal size; the lirst and third similar in form. The ridges 

 of the former branching downward toward the basals ; those of 

 the latter upward toward the secondary radials, which they 

 follow until these turn into free ann-plates. Arms branching or 

 simple; composed of single joints, which give off rather strong 

 pinnules. 



Interradial spaces composed of numerous small pieces without 

 definite arrangement. The plates rest upon the basals, separat- 




1885.] NATURAL SdENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31? 



ing all five rays from the base up. With the increase of inter- 

 radials and Lnteraxillaries by age, which seems to have been going 

 on continually in the specimen, more arm-plates, i. e. radials, 

 were gradually incorporated into the calyx, involving the prox- 

 imal pinnules, the plates of which arc easily recognized from 

 surrounding interradial and interaxillary pieces by being more 

 prominent. Azygous interradius wider than the four others. It 

 has an elevated ridge, composed of rather large anal pieces, which 

 are longitudinally arranged and have somewhat the appearance 

 of radials. The interaxillary areas are depressed, even deeper 

 than the interradial ones, and they consist of similar plates. The 

 ventral side has not been observed, but was evidently constructed 

 as in Xenocrinus and Meteocrinus. 

 We place here the following species : 



*1882. Canistrocrinus Pattersoni (S. A. Miller). Glyptocrinus Pattersoni, Journ. 



Cincin. Soc. Nat. Bist., vol. v July . PI. .".. figs. 2, 2 a. Ibid., vol. vi, Decbr. 



] S83, p. 226. — Reteocrinus Pattersoni, Waebs. and Sp., ISS:;, Arner. Journ. 



Sci., vol. xxv, April. 1883, p. 266. Ctica Slate, Cincinnati, 0. 

 *1880. Canistrocrinus Richardsoni [Wetherby). Type of the genus. — Glyptocrinus 



Richardsoni, Journ. Cincin. Soc, Nat. Hist., vol. ii, PI. 16, figs. I. la. W. 



& Sp., ism.— Reteocrinus Richardsoni, Rev. ii, p. 193 ; also Amer. Journ. 



Sci. vol. xxv. p. 266.— Miller, Glyptocr. Richardsoni, 1883, Journ. Cincin. 



Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. \i. p. 226. Hudson River gr., Clinton Co., 0. 



XENOCRINUS S. A. Miller. 



(PI. 6, fig. 2.) 



1881. S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iv. 



1881. W. and Sp. Revision ii, p. 184. 



1883. W. and Sp. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. xxv, p. 2G6. 



Xenocrinus is closely allied to Canistrocrinus, from which it dif- 

 fers in having four in place of five basals, and a quadrangular 

 column. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Base monocyclic. Basals four, forming 

 combined a shallow decagonal cup, which upon five of its sides 

 supports the five radials. and alternately upon each of the five 

 other sides a series of small interradial pieces. This arrange- 

 ment gives to the basals, owing to their abnormal number, a very 

 irregular form, no two of them being alike. The axial canal in 

 this genus, notwithstanding it has hut four basals and a quad- 

 ranglar stem, is pentangular, its angles directed interradially. In 

 all other respects, including the ventral covering, Xenocrinus 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



agrees with Reteocrinus and Canistrocrinus, to which we refer 

 for further particulars. We place in this genus also " Glyptocri- 

 nus" Baeri Meek, which we have heretofore referred to Reteocri- 

 nus, not knowing the construction of its basal portions. It has 

 not only four basals, but fundamentally a quadrangular column, 

 the more or less cylindrical outline being caused by knife-like lat- 

 eral extensions along the joints ; its cross-section shows the nu- 

 cleus to be strictly quadrangular. 



Geological Position, etc. — Hudson River group of the Ohio 

 valley. 



*1S72. Xenocrinus Baeri (Meek). Glyptocrinus Baeri, Amer. Journ. Sci. iii (Ser. 3), 

 p. 260; also IS;:;. Geo!. Rep. Ohio, Paleont. I, p. 37, PI. 2, fig. 1 a, b.— S. 

 A. Miller, 1880, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, PI. 7. fig. 4.— Reteo- 

 crinus Baeri W. & Sp., 1881, Revision ii, p. 193; also Arner. Journ. Sci., vol. 

 x.w, p. I't'iO.— Glyptocr. Baeri S. A. Miller, 1883, Journ. Ciueiu. Soc. Nat. 

 llist., vol. vi, p. 226.— Hudson River gr., Ohio valley. 



1881. Xenocrinus penicillus S. A. Miller. Type of the genus. Journ. Cincin. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist., vol. iv (April), PI. I, fig. 3, and ibid. July), PI. 4, fig. 6.— Hudson 

 River gr. Wayuesville, 0. 



Family IT.— RHODOCRINIDJE Roemer. 



(Emend., Zittel ; emend., W. and Sp.) 



ARCHJEOCRINUS W. and Sp. 



1881. W. and Sp. Revision, ii, p. 189. 



1883. S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi, p. 217. 



Syn. Lyriocrinus (S. A. Miller not Hall), 1882, Journ. Cincin. Soc. 

 Nat. Hist, vol. v. 



Mr. Walter R. Billings informs us that all the species which 

 we referred to Archseocrinus, possess a special anal piece placed 

 between the interradials of the second series. In Part II, p. 190, 

 we erroneously stated that the anal interradius could not be dis- 

 tinguished from the four others, and we are obliged to Mr. Bil- 

 lings for making this correction. We find it confirmed by some 

 interesting specimens which we recentlj- collected from the Tren- 

 ton limestone near Knoxville, Tenn. Most of these specimens 

 represent Miller's " Lyriocrinus " sculptus, which was supposed 

 to come from the Niagara group, but which evidently came from 

 a lower horizon. Our specimens were found associated with By- 

 bocrinus and other characteristic Lower Silurian fossils. Lyrio- 

 crinus sculptus Miller, or, as we call it, Archeeocrinus sculptus, is 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



smaller than any of the Canadian species. It has but one sec- 

 ondary radial, and fewer and larger interradials both dorsally 

 and ventrally, but otherwise agrees well with those types. It 

 probably represents paleontologically a younger stage of that 

 genus, for the arms are free from the first secondary radial. In 

 Lyriocrinus the arms proceed upward in a straight line with the 

 walls of the calyx, the arm openings are located ventrally and 

 are arranged at nearly equal distances from each other; while 

 in Archeeocrinus sculptus the arms extend out laterally in the 

 form of free appendages. In the former the interradials of the 

 ventral side rest against the inner edges of the dorsal cup, the 

 so-called "vault " being perfectly flat; in the latter the.vault is 

 elevated and the interradials along the ventral side are so closely 

 intermingled with the dorsal ones, that no dividing line can be 

 distinguished. 



In Archeeocrinus dexideratus, which is a good t}-pical form of 

 the genus, there are twenty or more interradials beneath the hori- 

 zon of the arms, and these are succeeded by a much larger num- 

 ber of minute pieces at the ventral side, all of which, from the 

 basals up, decrease in size to the oral pole. There are no large 

 plates to represent the proximal dome plates, and hence no orals 

 if these were represented by the proximals as contended by Car- 

 penter. The interradial and interaxillary spaces in the dome are 

 depressed, thereby producing along the surface somewhat irregu- 

 lar ridges, which follow the direction of the subtegminal ambu- 

 lacral tubes. 



The depressed globular form and the wide interradial spaces 

 of the calyx are characteristic features of A rch aeocrinus, which 

 distinguish it readily from all other Silurian Rhodocrinidae. 



Some of our specimens of Archeeocrinus sculptus have beneath 

 the first interradial plate, resting upon the basals, two small 

 additional plates. As these are present only in the larger speci- 

 mens, and totally absent in the smaller ones, in some of them 

 developed in a most rudimentary way, sometimes only in one or 

 two of their rays, it is evident that the}' are the result of extrav- 

 agant growth, and not true interradial plates. They seem to us 

 equivalents of the small accessory pieces between basals and 

 radials in Acrocrinus, in which they attain a much more profuse 

 development, occupying the greater part of the calyx. 



We note here the following additional species : 




320 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



1884. Archaeocrinus desideratus Walter B. Billings MS. (The description will ap- 

 pear in the Trausactiona of the Field Naturalist's Cluh of Ottawa.) 



Archseocr. globularis Nichols, and Ether., Silur. Fossils Girran Distr., p. 

 329, PI. 22, figs. 9 11. Craighead limestone. 



I :'. Archaeocrinus sculptus (S. A. Miller), Lyriocrinus sculptus, Cincin. Journ. 

 Nat, Bist., toI. r, p. 217, PL 3, figs. 6 a, b. — Trenton limest. Kuoxville, 

 Tenn. 

 Si/ii. Lyriocrinus sculptilis S. A. Miller. Name preoccupied. 



RHAPHANOCKINUS nov. gen. 



"■"i'»„ ;i radish; xplvov, a lily.) 



Syii. Glyptocriinix Waleott (in part), not Hall, 1883, New Spec, of 

 Foss. from Trenton gr. of N. York, p. 0. (Abstract from the 35th 

 Rep. N. York State Museum Nat Hist., N. York.) 



The species upon which the genus Iiliaphanocrinus is pro- 

 posed, was referred by Waleott, with some doubt, to Glyptocri- 

 nus. Like that genus, it has regular^ 7 arranged interradial plates, 

 but these rest upon the truncate upper side of the basals, not 

 upon the sloping sides of the first radials as in that genus ; 

 besides it possesses underbasals. The latter plates were not 

 observed by Waleott; they ai'e evidently small, and covered by 

 the large column or hidden within the basal concavity. That 

 underbasals were present, is clearly seen by the angular form of 

 the first radials, and b} r the form, size and position of the basals. 



Rhaphanocrinus is closely allied to Archaeocrinus, from which 

 it differs in having the arms constructed of a single series of 

 quadrangular plates, and in having simple, in place of branching, 

 arms. It also resembles Dimerocrinus in its general aspect, but 

 is readily distinguished by the position of the interradial plates, 

 and by having the arms constructed of a single series of plates. 

 It differs from Anthemocrinus, with which it has probably the 

 closest affinities, in the entirely distinct arm structure. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx short, truncate below ; interradial 

 spaces slightly depressed. 



Underbasals small, not visible in a lateral view, and more or 

 less hidden by the column. Basals large, hexagonal, the upper 

 side truncate for the reception of the first inlerradials. 



Primary radials :i 5, Large ; the first and third marly alike in 

 form. Secondarj radials two or more, quadrangular ; gradually 

 decreasing in height and passing into arm plates. 



Interradials numerous; those of the ventral side smaller. Inter- 

 axillary plates few. Summit plates, and form of anus unknown. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



Arms stout, long, simple ; composed of a single series of quad- 

 rangular plates, which give off alternately strong pinnules. Col- 

 umn large ; cylindrical. 



The type of the genus, and only known species is : 



*1883. Ehaphanocrinus subnodosus (Walcott), Glyptocrinus (?) subnodosus, 35th 

 Rep. N. York State Mus. Nat. Hist., PI. 17, fig. 3. — Trenton limest. Tren- 

 ton Pall, N. Y. 



LYRIOCRINUS Hall. 



(W. and Sp., Revision II, p. 203.) 



Not Lyrioerinus S. A. Miller, 1882, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. v, p. 217. 



(?) SAGENOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. II, p. 201. 

 RHIPIDOCRINUS Beyrich, Rev. II, p. 205. 



THYLACOCRINUS Oehlert, Rev. II, p. 207. 



1879. Thylacocr. Vanniosti Oehlert, Extr. du Bull. Soc. Geol. de France 

 (Ser. 3), vii, PI. i, fig. 1 ; also 1882, ibid. vol. x, p. 359, fig. 1.— De- 

 vonian. St. Germain, France. 



ANTHEMOCRINUS W. and Sp. Rev. ii, p. 208. 



RHODOCRINUS Miller, Rev. ii, p. 209. 



1882. Rhodocr. coxanus Worthen, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 

 80 ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vii, p. 305. — Keokuk limest. Keokuk, 

 Iowa. 



OLLACRINTJS Cumberland, Rev. ii, p. 213. 



Family III.— GLYPTASTERID^ W. and Sp. 



PTYCHOCRINUS nov. gen. 

 (jrruj a fold; Kpivov a lily). 



Mr. S. A. Miller has arrayed a number of species under a pro- 

 posed genus Gaurocrinus, which, like his Glyptocrinus, embraces 

 a heterogeneous assemblage of forms. It contains species of JReteo- 

 crinus, Glyptocrinus, and a new form with good generic characters, 

 in our opinion, for which we should be very glad to retain Miller's 

 name, if he had not expressly taken as its type Hall's Glyptocri- 

 nus O'Nealli, which is a typical Reteocrinus. We are, therefore, 

 obliged to adopt a new name, and propose Ptychocrinus, for the 

 reception of his Gaurocrinus splendens, and G. angularis, together 



22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



with Hall's Glyptocrinus parvus, which, evidently, according to 

 Hall's figure (but not Meek's), has the same characters. 



We cannot agree with Miller that Wetherby's Reteocrinus 

 gracilis, in which ill-formed interradials separate the radials down 

 to the base, and in which the basals are squarely truncated above 

 and form the base of the interradial spaces, is a synonym of 

 Glyptoa-inus angularis, in which the " interradial spaces have a 

 hexagonal plate resting between the upper sloping side of the 

 first radials." 



The three species differ from all established genera of this 

 family in having their arms constructed of single joints. It 

 might, perhaps, be doubted whether this is a good generic 

 character, as all Crinoids with double-jointed arms are single- 

 jointed in their younger stages ; but finding three species with 

 the same kind of arms, and these comprising the only known 

 Lower Silurian species of this family, we are evidently justified 

 in making it a generic distinction. 



Generic Diagnosis. — In general form closely resembling Ghjp- 

 tocrinus. Radials with a fold-like, strong, tubular ridge along 

 their median line ; interradial spaces depressed. 



Underbasals five, well shown in a side view. Basals five, large ; 

 all of them hexagonal. Primary radials 3X5; the first ones 

 heptagonal, but the upper sloping sides facing the azygous side 

 longer, forming a deep notch for the reception of a very large 

 anal plate. Secondary radials three or more, which have the 

 appearance of arm-plates, and gradually pass into free joints. 

 They have strong arm-like pinnules, given off from alternate 

 sides. 



Interradials consisting of one plate in the first row, two in the 

 second, and three in the third row. The azygous side wider ; the 

 first plate extending far down between the first radials, sometimes 

 touching the basals, and there are three in place of two plates in 

 the second series. Structure of the ventral side unknown. 

 Column small ; cylindrical. 



*1879. Ptychocrinus angularis (Miller and Dyer), Glyptoor. angularis, Journ. 



Cinoin. Soc. Nat Hist., p. 5, PI. 1, fig. 10. — 1883, Gaurocr. angularis S. A. 



Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi, p. 229. — Hudson River gr. 



Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 *1872. Pt. parvus (Hall), Glyptocr. parvus, Desc. New Crin., etc., PI. 1, fig. 17 



I without description), 24th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 207, PI. v, 



fig. 17; (?) Meek, 1873, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal. i, p. 36, PI. 2, figs. 4ab; (?) 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 323 



S. A. Miller, 1883, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi, p. 224.— Hudson 

 gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 Meek's description of this species, upon which the Cincinnati paleontologists 

 have tried to identify it, is based upon specimens which did not show its 

 characters, and therefore cannot be relied upon. Hall's figure exhibit? :i 

 well-marked form, it shows plainly that it must have underbasals, and that 

 a small anal plate extends down to the basals. 

 *1883. Pt. splendens (S. A. Miller), Gaurocr. splendens, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 

 Hist., vol. vi, p. 230. — Trenton gr. Cape Girardeau, Mo. 



GLYPTASTER Hall, Rev. ii, p. 193. 



Additional species : — 



1881. 01. Ecjani S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iv (Oc- 



tober), PI. 6, figs. 4 a b. — Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. 



1882. 01. occidentalis var. crebescens Hall. Eleventh Geol. Pep. Indiana, 



by Collett, p. 263.— Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 



EUCRINUS Angelin, Rev. ii, p. 196. 

 DIMEROCRINUS Phillips, Rev. ii, p. 197. 



Additional species : — 



*1882. D. waldronensis (Miller and Dyer), Cyathocrinus waldronensis, Journ. 

 Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., July (Abstr., p. 6), PI. 4, fig. 9.— Niagara gr. (We 

 have seen in the collection of Mr. Wm. Gurley, of Danville, a specimen 

 which shows plainly the presence of dorsal interradials ; and this feature, 

 together with the double-jointed arm structure, proves, beyond doubt, that 

 it is not a Cyathocrinoid). 



LAMPTEROCRINUS Roemer, Rev. ii, p. 199. 



Additional species : — 



1879. (?) L. parvus Hall, Trans. Alb. Inst., vol. x (Abstr., p. 9).— Niagara gr. Wal- 

 dron, Ind. (This may be a young specimen of L. tennesseensis. It appar- 

 ently differs only in the much smaller size, and in having but four anal 

 plates). 



Family IV.— MELOCRINID.2E Roemer. 

 (Emend. W. and Sp.). 



a. Stelidiocrinites. 



(?) BRIAROCRINTJS Angl., Rev. ii, p. 96. 



This is one of the genera in which we cannot trace satisfactorily 

 the family relations, being in some of the characters allied to the 

 Ichthyocrinidae. 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



STELIDIOCRINUS Angl., Rev. ii, p. 98. 



Additional species : — 



•1883. (?) Stelidiocrinus argutus (Walcott), Glyptocrinus argutus, 35th Rep. N. 

 York State Cab. Nat. Hist. (Adv. Sheet, p. 1), PI. 17, fig. 9.— Trenton 

 limest. Trenton Falls, N. Y. This is certainly not a Glyptocrinus. To 

 judge from the figure, it is closely allied to Stelidiocrinus, but may be the 

 type of a new genus. 



PATELLIOCRINUS Angl., Rev. ii, p. 100. 



MACROSTYLOCRINUS Hall, Rev. ii, p. 102. 



Additional species : — 



1882. Macrostylocr. fusibrachiatus Ringeberg, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 



v, ]>. I !'.•, PI. 5, fig. 4. — Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1880. M. striatus, var. granulosus Hall, 28th Rep. N. Y. State Cab., p. 129; also 

 11th Geol. Rep. Ind., p. 258. — Niagara gr. AValdron, Ind. 



CENTROCRINTJS W. and Sp., Rev. ii, p. 104. 

 b. Melocrinites. 



GLYPTOCRINUS Hall, Rev. ii, p. 185. 



1883. S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. vi (December). 

 1883. W. and Sp. Amer. Journ. Sci. (April), p. 255. 



1883. S. A. Miller. Ibid. (August), p. 105. 



Not Etheridge and Nicholson, 1880, Silur. Foss. of Girvan Distr., 



p. 328. 

 Syn. Pycnocrimis S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iv. 



Since the absence of underbasals is clearly proved, Glyptocrinus 

 differs from Mariacrinus only in the number-of basals, which is 

 five in place of four. Miller has founded the genus Pycnocrinus 

 upon a species which he had previously referred to Glyptocrinus. 

 Through the liberality of Mr. Miller, for which we are under 

 lasting obligations to him, we have been given the freest access 

 to his beautiful type specimens, with liberty to use them for our 

 descriptions. We are reluctantly compelled to say that in our 

 opinion Pycnocrinus is simply a young Glyptocrinus. The genus 

 was founded principally upon the absence of " secondary radials," 

 and the arms were said " to arise free from the primary radials." 

 This statement does not agree with our observations, as we find 

 in two of the specimens a minute interaxillary piece, and at least 

 one secondary radial. In the two others, which are even more 

 immature, the third primary radials, in part, take the functions of 




1885.1 NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



the secondary radials, as seen by the surface ridges, which bifur- 

 cate along the middle portions of the plates. The plates succeed- 

 ing them are still in a free state, and appear as arm-plates, but 

 actually form extensions of the calyx, being not as yet connected 

 by interradials and interaxillaries, as in the more adult specimens. 

 A diversity in the number of secondary radials cannot be con- 

 sidered of generic value, at least not in a form like Glyptocrinus, 

 in which, as Miller himself has shown us (Journ. Cincin. Soc, vol. 

 vi, PI. 11, fig. 1), the rays remain in an immature condition, more 

 or less, even in the adult. The specimens referred to Pycnocrinus 

 are so embryonic in their condition, that it would be speculation 

 for us to assert to what species they belong, and we have con- 

 cluded to leave them as doubtful species under Glyptocrinus. 



The species now referred by us to Glyptocrinus have round 

 columns, with the exception of Glyptocrinus Fomshelli, which 

 Miller thinks may prove to be a distinct generic form ; while those 

 referred to JReteocrinus, with probably one exception, have pen- 

 tagonal columns. 



The species which were referred in Europe to Glyptocrinus, 

 probably with the exception of Glyptocrinus basalis (?), belong 

 to different genera. That species was figured without discrip- 

 tion in Murchison's Siluria, p. 206, from a specimen with arms, 

 and came from the Caradoc limestone. In this specimen, the 

 plates of the calyx cannot be recognized, but the arms are those 

 of Glyptocrinus. In the type specimen of McCoy, in which only 

 the calyx is preserved, the interradials apparently touch the 

 basals, which, if true, would exclude it from Glyptocrinus. 



The specimens described by Nicholson and Etheridge, jun., 

 under the name of Glyptocr. globularis, from the Craighead lime- 

 stone and from Traive Glen. (Monogr. Silur. Foss. Girvan Distr. 

 in Ayshire, 1880, pp. 328-30, PI. 22, figs 9-11), probably belong 

 to Archseocrinus. They evidently had underbasals, for the inter- 

 radials rest upon the basals, and alternate with the first radial 

 plates. Neither can the arms, fig. 12, on the same plate, which 

 are composed of a double series of joints, be referred to Glyp- 

 tocrinus. 



We add the following species to our former list : 



(?) 1854. Glyptocrinus basalis McCoy, Synops. Palaeoz. Foss., p. 57, plate I D, fig. 

 4, 1859, Murchison's Silur., p. 206. — Caradoc limest. Montgomeryshire, 

 Great Britain. 




326' PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



1882. G. miamiensis S. A. Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. 5, PI. 1, fig. 1. 

 Ibid., 1883, vol. vi, p. 224. — Hudson River gr. Waynesville, 0. 



1882. G. sculptus S. A. Miller, Journ., Cincin. Soc, vol. v, p. 13, PI. 1, fig. 2; also 



Ibid., 1883, vol. vi, p. 224, PI. 1, fig. 2.— Hudson River gr. Waynes- 

 ville, 0. 



MARIACRINUS Hall, Rev. ii, p. 114. 



Syn. Compsocrinus S. A. Miller, 1883, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. vi, p. 234. 



Compsocrinus was described by Miller from a species which 

 was said to possess a quadripartite base, supporting five radials 

 and an anal plate ; column quadrangular. Good specimens of 

 " Compsocrinus 11 Harrisi, Miller's type, from the collection of 

 Mr. Harris, who has the type specimens, show the number of 

 basals to be four, as described by Miller; but the interradials at 

 all sides rest upon the first radials, the posterior one not abutting 

 against the basals as was asserted, and this makes Compsocrinus 

 identical in structure with Mariacrinus as emended by us. If 

 Miller's diagnosis had been correct, Compsocrinus would have 

 been undoubtedly a good genus. Whether the column in other 

 species of Mariacrinus is quadrangular, is not known. 



*1881. Mariacrinus Harrisi (S. A. Miller), Glyptocrinus Harrisi, Journ. Cincin. 

 Soc, vol. iv, PI. 1, fig. 4. — Compsocrinus Harrisi Miller, Ibid., vol. vi, p. 

 234, PI. 11, fig. 4.— Hudson River gr. Waynesville, 0. 



TECHNOCRINUS Hall, Rev. ii, v . I Hi. 



MELOCRINUS Gcddf., Rev. ii. p. 118. 



1883. M. Benedeni (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Recb. sur les Crin. du 



Famenien de Belgique, Ann. de la Soc. geol. de Belg., Tome x, p. 

 60, PI. 4, fig. 9. — Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 

 1883. M. Chapuisi (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Ibid., p. 65, PI. 5, figs. 

 5-7. — Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 



1882. M. CZrtr&et'Williams, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 31.— Genessee 



slate. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 M. gerolsteinensis Steininger, 1853, Geogn. Beschreib. d. Eifel, p. 35, 

 is not sufficiently defined for identification. 



1883. M. (jlobosus (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Recli. sur les Crin. du Fa- 



menien de Belg. Ann. Soc. geol. de Belg., Tome x, p. 61, PI. 5, 

 figs. 1-i. — Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 



1884. M. inornatus (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Ibid., Tome xi, p. 105, PI. 



1,. fig. 1. — Devon, superieur. Frasne, Belgium. 

 1883. M. Konincki (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Ibid., p. 58, PI. 4, figs. 6-8. 

 Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



1883. M. mespiliformes (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Ibid. p. 63, PI. 5, figs. 

 8-10. — Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 



1882. M. occidentalis Oehlert, Bull. Soc. geol. de France (ser. 3), Tome x, 



p. 357, PI. 8, fig 4.— Devon, inferieur. Near Sabre and La Fleche, 

 France. 



1883. M. OeldertiW. and Sp. Melocrinus Verneuili Oeblert (notW. and 



Sp., 1881). Described Soc. geol. de France (Ser. 3), Tome x, p. 

 358, PI. 8, fig. 5. — Devon, inferieur. — Sabre, France. 



1884. M. obscurus (Dewalque MS.) Fraipont, Ibid., vol. xi, p. 107, PI. 1, 



fig. 2. — Devon, superieur. Cbaud fontaine, Belg. 



SCYPHOCRINUS Zenker, Rev. ii, p. 123. 

 (?) HADROCRINUS Lyon, Rev. ii, p. 222. 



DOLATOCRINUS Lyon, Rev. ii, p. 124. 



1884. D. triadactylus Barris, Proceed. Davenport. Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. iv, 



PI. 2, figs 5-7. — Hamilton gr. Alpena, Mich. 

 1871. D. ornatus Meek, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 57. — Corniferous. 



Columbus, O. 



STEREOCRINUS Barris, Rev. ii, p. 126. 



Family V.— ACTINOCRINID-3S Roemer. 

 a. Agaricocrikites. 



CARPOCRINUS Miiller, Rev, ii, p. 105. 



Note. — In Rev. ii, p. 107, in place of Carpocrinus elongatulus read G. 

 elegantulus. 



(?) LEPTOCRINUS Angl., Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 3. 



This genus was placed by Angelin under Platycrinidae, but, if 

 we understand the figure correctly, it is not only an Actinocrinoid, 

 but even synonymous with Carpocrinus. 



Additional species : — 



1879. Leptocrinus raridigitatus Angl., Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. ."», PI. 20, figs. 18, 19, 

 and PL 28, figs. 4, 4 a. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



DESMIDOCRINUS Angl., Rev. ii, p. 108. 



AGARICOCRINUS Troost, Rev. ii, p. 109. 



Additional species : — 



1881. A. crassus Wetherby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. v, p. 178, PI. 5, fig. 

 1 ab. — Keokuk gr. Kentucky. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



1881. A. elegans Wetberby, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. v, p. 179, PI. 5, 

 fig. 4 a b. — Keokuk gr. Kentucky. 



ALLOPROSALLOCRINUS Lyon and Cass., Rev. ii, p. 113. 



b. Periechocrinites. 



PERIECHOCRINUS Austin, Rev. ii. p. 127. 



S. A. Miller's late additions to this genus were made from 

 natural casts, and there is the usual uncertainty as to their iden- 

 tification. We must consider them as doubtful species, until the 

 external surface is known from casts or otherwise. Miller con- 

 siders Megistocrinus infelix Winch, and Marcy, Saccocrinus 

 infelix Miller, specifically distinct from Saccocrinus Ghristyi 

 Hall, which Hall had doubted. He gives two more figures of the 

 species, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iv, PI. 6, figs. 2 a b. 



Additional species : — 



*1881. Periechocr. Egani? (S. A. Miller). Saccocrinus Egani, Journ. Cincin. Soo. 



Nat. Hist., PI. 4, figs. 4, 4 a. — Niagara gr. Chicago, III. 

 *1865. Periechocr. necis? (Winchel and Marcy). Megistocrinus necis, Memoirs 



Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., i, p. Ill, PI. 2, fig. 15. S. A. Miller, Saccocrinus 



necis, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1881, PI. 4, figs. .'1, Ha. — Niagara gr. 



Chicago, 111. 

 ♦1882. Periechocr. pyriformis ? (S. A. Miller). Saccocrinus pyriformis, Journ. 



Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July), PI. 3, figs. 3, .'! a.— Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. 

 *1882. Periechocr. urniformis? (S. A. Miller). Saccocrinus urniformis, Journ. 



Cincin. Soc. Xat. Hist. (July!. PI. 4, figs. 2, 2a.— Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. 



ABACOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. ii, p. 133. 



CORYMBOCRINUS Angelin. 



1878. Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 18. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d . Palseontologie i, p. 373. 



Syn. Eucalyptocrinus McCoy, 1855 (not Goldfuss). 

 Syn. Clonocrinus Quenstedt, 1876 (not Oehlert, 1879). 



The genus Corymbocrinus was in Pt. ii erroneously referred 

 by us to the Calyptocrinidse. It resembles Eucalyptocrinus so 

 remarkably in the construction of the calyx plates, its deep basal 

 concavity, and the perfect symmetry that prevails throughout 

 the interradii, that we took it to be a connecting link between 

 Actionocrinidae and Calvptocrinidte, but neai'er the latter through 

 Gallicrinus, which we thought to be intermediate between Corym- 

 bocrinus and E ucalyptocrinus. To this view even the branching 

 arms formed no serious objection, as Angelin has figured in the 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



Iconographia, PI. 9, fig. 13, a malformed specimen of Eucalypto- 

 crinus, in which some of the arms divide half-way up to the top, 

 and in a similar manner, as in Corymbocrinus. Prof. Lindstrom, 

 of Stockholm, however, informs us that the plates along the ven- 

 tral side differ essentially in the two forms, and that the genus, in 

 his opinion, could not be arranged with the Calyptocrinidse. The 

 total absence of special anal plates, unites it with the Melocrinidae, 

 and in this we agree with Zittel, but not with Angelin. who sepa- 

 rated Corymbocrinus and Abacocrinus from 31elocrinus, and 

 placed them in separate families. The two genera have a similar 

 arm-structure, but differ essentially in the construction of the 

 calyx, the one having a strictly pentamerous, the other a decidedly 

 bilateral sj^mmetry. More close are the affinities with Polypeltes, 

 provided we understand that genus correctly. We are somewhat 

 in doubt whether Quenstedt's name Clonocrinus, should not be 

 adopted in place of Corymbocrinus, as it probably has priority, 

 but Quenstedt gives no generic description, only mentioning the 

 name in connection with a certain species. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx basin, or low cup-shaped ; basal 

 portions broadly and deeply excavated ; plates of very uniform 

 size, rather heavy, somewhat convex, rarely ornamented ; sym- 

 metry regularly equilateral, except in the basals. 



Basals four, unequal, forming a hollow cone, which is filled by 

 the upper portions of the column. 



Primary radials 3X5, all wider than high. The first plate 

 larger than the rest, its lower (here inner) side forming a part of 

 the basal concavity, its opposite side at right angles with the 

 column, only a small portion curved upward. The second radials 

 quadrangular or nearly so, much wider than high, frequently with 

 convex lower edges, narrower than the first radials. The third 

 radials are pentagonal. Secondary radials 2X2X5, compara- 

 tively large. Their upper series support two rows of transversely 

 linear tertiary radials, arranged alternately like a double series of 

 arm plates, but connected b} r interradial and interaxillary pieces, 

 and hence forming parts of the body. 



Arms long, bifurcating, gradually tapering to the distal ends ; 

 from their base up composed of a double series of very short 

 but wide interlocking pieces. Pinnules long. 



Interradials arranged longitudinall}' in rows of a single plate 

 each. The first plate the largest in the cal} T x ; ninesided ; it ex- 




330 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



tends from the upper sloping sides of the first primary radials to 

 the first plate of the secondary radials. The second plate is 

 much smaller, though yet comparatively large ; it is hexagonal, 

 and placed upon the first interradial and between the two second- 

 ary radials. There are two more interradial pieces above, which, 

 like the two former, are longitudinally arranged. This arrange- 

 ment is uniform in all five areas. 



Interaxillary plates, one or two ; the upper one cuneate, and 

 inserted like the upper interradials between the tertiary radials. 

 Construction of the plates of the ventral side unknown. The 

 column is large, round, composed of low segments ; articular 

 faces provided with radiating striae, except upon a small zone 

 next to the periphery ; central canal pentalobate. 



Geological position, etc. — Gorymbocrinus is only known from 

 the Upper Silurian of England and Gothland. 



Angelin refers to it the following species : 



I Mo. Corymbocr. corolliferus Hisinger (Cyathocr. (?) corolliferus). Lethaja. Suec. 

 Suppl. sec, p. 6, PI. 39, fig. 3, a-c. Angelin, 1878.— Corymbocr. corollife- 

 rus, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 18, PI. 23, fig. 19. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, 

 Sweden. 



1 878. Corymbocr. grandis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. IS, PI. 9, figs. 2, 3. — Up- 

 per Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



187S. Corymbocr. grandistellatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 18, PI. 9, fig. 

 4, and PI. 23, figs. 18-21.— Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. Corymbocr. laevis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 18, PI. 23, fig. 20. — Upper 

 Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



L878. Corymbocr. Panderi Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 18, PI. 9, fig. 5, and 

 PI. '!?>, figs. 17, 17 a, b. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1855. Corymbocr. polydactylus McCoy (Eucalyptocr polydactylus). Apud. Sedge 

 wick, Bynops. Pal. Foss., p. 58, PI. 1 D, fig. 2; also Sailer, 187.'!; Catal., p. 



120; Angelin, 1878. — Corymbocr. polydactylus, le >gr. Crin. Suec. p. L8, 



PL 9, figs. I, 6-12, and PL 21, fig. 17.— .Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



Note. — It is possible that Mariacrinua macropetalus Hall, Paleont., N. 

 York, vol. iii, p. Ill, PI. 3 A, fig. 1, is a Corymbocrinus, but it may be a 

 Callicrinux in place of Mariacrinue, as which it was described. 



CiPOLYPELTES Angelin. 



1878. Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 27. 



1879. Zittel, Handb. d. Paleont. i, p. 373. 



The genus Polypeltes was described as being composed of " 8 

 or more basals, 16 parabasals, 10 (?) X 1 radials (all axillary), 

 numerous interradial and interaxillary pieces, and as having 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



10 X 12 primary arms." This formula was considered by Angelin 

 and Zittel so distinct from that of any other known form, that 

 both placed the genus in an independent famity. We should fol- 

 low their example, if we were satisfied as to the correctness of 

 that description. 



From the fact that Angelin gave the number of most of the 

 above plates with doubt — he stated positively only the number of 

 " parabasalia " — we infer that his specimens in the basal regions 

 were not in a condition for critical examination. It is, moreover, 

 apparent that an arrangement of plates, such as he described, is 

 theoretically, as well as practically, impossible. 



From the description it is difficult to ascertain which of the 

 plates were intended as " basals" and which as " parabasals." In 

 fig. 2, PL 9, of the Iconographia, there are represented close to 

 the column two rings of plates ; an upper or outer one, which is 

 composed of 25 or 26 pieces, and close to the column an inner one, 

 which, if an}- reliance can be placed in the figure (?), contains 

 very nearly the same number, for the plates are represented as 

 alternating with those of the upper ring. The former should 

 contain the "parabasals," the latter the basals; but unfortunately 

 the plates of both rings differ in number most conspicuously from 

 the number attributed to " basals " and " parabasals " in the de- 

 scription. 



Of all the plates to which the description alludes, the " ten (?) 

 bifurcating radials" are most readily recognized, and we believe 

 there are actually ten of these plates in the specimen. In the 

 figure they occupy a position within the second ring, but along 

 with other plates which are interposed between them. At the 

 one side there is a small single piece, which we take to be an inter- 

 axillar}' plate; at the other are found two larger plates, evidently 

 interradials, with possibly an additional anal piece at the poste- 

 rior side. It is very probable that these 15 or 16 plates, which 

 in groups of one, two, and three (?) are inserted laterally between 

 the axillary radials, were taken in the description for " parabasa- 

 lia," as otherwise those plates would be undescribed. If this is 

 the case, the term has been incorrectly applied, as the name 

 "parabasalia " has been given only to the ring of plates which lies 

 beneath the radials, and between these and the underbasals. All 

 plates which are laterally inserted between the radials, as in this 

 case, are called interradials. It would be, however, equally incon- 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



sistent in principle to search for " parabasalia " among the plates 

 of the first ring, for basals and " parabasals " are not placed beside 

 each other, but the latter rest upon the ring of the former. We 

 doubt if Polypeltes possessed any such plates as " parabasalia," 

 at least not among the plates of these two rings. It is probable 

 that the plates of the inner ring, like those of the outer, were 

 parti}' radials and partly interradials, while the basals were hid- 

 den from view by the column. In support of this view it is well 

 to compare the plates here exposed with those represented in 

 allied genera. 



According to description, the ten bifurcating radials are suc- 

 ceeded by two rows of from four to five plates, consisting of 

 higher orders of radials ; the upper series bifurcating, giving off 

 another order of radials, and these the primary arms, which 

 branch after becoming free. Comparing the different portions of 

 the rays with the same parts in Abacocrinus and Corymbocrinus, 

 we find the form of the radials, their proportionate size, and even 

 the construction of the arms and their mode of branching, almost 

 identical with those two forms, provided we compare the ten 

 lower radials in Polypeltes with the ten rows of secondary radials 

 in Abacocrinus and Corymbocrinus. The main difference is that 

 the latter genus has but one bifurcation in the cah'x above these 

 plates, while the former has two, and consequently twice the num- 

 ber of primary arms, a difference only of specific value. From 

 the fact that Polypeltes has an extra bifurcation, and twice as 

 man}- primary arms as the other two genera, it might be asserted 

 that it has exceptionally ten primary ra\'S'instead of five, and ten 

 interradial spaces, but that is not the case. It has been stated 

 that the ten radials are laterally disconnected, and separated on 

 the one side by a single plate, and on the other by two larger 

 pieces. The two larger ones are followed by numerous other 

 plates, which, arranged in two rows, extend to the lower portions 

 of the arms, and enclose these within the calyx, while the smaller 

 plate at the other side stands perfectly isolated, surrounded on 

 all sides bj radials. That the former represent the plates of 

 five interradial series, and the single piece an axillary plate, has 

 been already stated, and this proves very clearly that Polypeltes, 

 like other Crinohls. has but live main rays, that the ten axillary 

 pieces in Angelin's figure represent 1X5X2 secondary radials, 

 and that the specimen must have somewhere primary radials. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. , 333 



Beneath the interaxillary plate, the figure indicates the presence 

 of two plates, separated laterally, which, combined, have the form 

 and position of a bifurcating plate. That there is a mistake in 

 the figure with regard to these plates, seems to us beyond ques- 

 tion. There is evidently but one plate in the specimen, and this 

 represents a primary radial, while the two plates at each side of 

 it, as in the succeeding ring, are interradials. The figures do not 

 extend beyond this ring, all lower plates being evidently hidden 

 from view by the large column, and hence the exact number of 

 primary radials and basals is not known, but this was undoubtedly 

 similar to that of allied genera, and not so abnormal as given by 

 Angelin. 



If it has three primary radials and four basals, which seems to 

 us most probable, and at the same time a distinct anal interra- 

 dius, we should not hesitate to place Polypeltes as a synonym 

 under Abacocrinus, while under the same conditions, but with 

 only three basals, it agrees with Megistocrinus. However, should 

 it be proved that the posterior interradius has no additional 

 plates, but is constructed like that of the four other sides, Poly- 

 peltes should be placed under Corymbocrinus. Only a variation 

 in the number of primary radials, if our interpretation is correct, 

 will warrant a generic separation, but in this case the name should 

 be changed, as it becomes meaningless. 



We suggest that in Polypeltes (?) the basals and the greater 

 part of the primary radials form a deep concavity, which, to a 

 large extent, is filled by the column, as in the case of Corymbo- 

 crinus, Megistocrinus and Eucalyptocrinus. We found a very 

 similar case in Megistocrinus concavus Wachsmuth, from Alpena, 

 Michigan, in which the basals and first radials form the lateral 

 walls of a deep concavity, and are entirely hidden from view. 

 The second radials are partly exposed, and form, with adjoining 

 pieces, a ring of twelve very even, strongly nodose plates, which 

 consist of five radials, four regular interradials, and three anal 

 plates. Nobody would suspect one of these specimens to be a 

 Megistocrinus, unless he obtained access to the deep funnel which 

 contains the missing plates. 



We deem it unnecessary to give a special diagnosis of Poly- 

 peltes, as we think it will eventually be placed under Abacocrinus 

 or Corymbocrinus. It has the same long, branching arms, com- 

 posed of two series of narrow interlocking pieces, and, as in that 




334 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



genus, the lower portions of the arms are connected laterally for 

 some distance by one or two rows of interbrachial pieces. 

 Angelin described under Polypeltes a single species : — 



1878. ? Polypeltes granulatus Angclin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 27, PI. 24, figs. 



2, 3. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



MEGISTOCRINUS Owen and Shum., Rev. ii, p. 135. 



We compared Megistocr. Ontario Hall, and M. depressas Hall, 

 with good specimens in our own cabinet and in the Canada Sur- 

 vey Museum, and find the former to be a young example of if. 

 abnormis Lyon, the latter of M. rugosus Lyon and Cass. 



Additional species : — 



1879. M. pileatus S. A. Miller. Journ. Cinein. Soc. Nat. Hist. (December), PI. 10, 



figs. 1 a 1). — Corniferous limest. Columbus, 0. — This must be closely com- 

 pared with M. rugosus Lyon and Cass., with which it may be identical. 

 1885. M. concavus WaidiMiiuth. Proceed. Davenport Acad. Sci., vol. iv, p. 96, PI. 



1, figs. 5-7. — Alpena, Mich. 

 *1836. M. globosus (Phill.) Actinocr. globosus, Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206, PI. 4, figs. 

 26-29, also BffoCoy, 1844, Synops. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 182; W. and Spr. 

 Rhodocr. globosus, Rev. ii, p. 212. — Mount. limest. England. 

 1885. M. nodosus, var. multidecoratus Barris. Proceed. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., 

 vol. iv, p. 100. — Hamilton gr. Alpena, Mich. 



C. ACTINOCRINITES. 



ACTINOCRINUS Miller, Rev. ii, p. 138. 



Phillipsocrinus caryocrinoides McCoy, Synops. Carb. Foss. 

 Ireland, p. 183, PI. 26, fig. 5, is evidently an abnormal specimen 

 of Actinocrinus pusillus or some other closely allied species. 



Actinocr. dalyanus S. A. Miller, 1881, is a synonym of Actinocr. 

 proboscidialis Hall, and it is from the Lower Burlington lime- 

 stone, not from the Keokuk limestone, as supposed by Miller. 



A. tholus Hall. It is possible that the form which Hall de- 

 scribed under this name, and which we took to be a synonym of 

 .1. qlans, is more than a mere variety. We found lately in one 

 and the same locality numerous specimens agreeing well with 

 Hall's description, every one having convex or even slightly nodose 

 plates ; while those of A. glans are generally smooth or merely 

 convex, and the form of the body is somewhat more elongate. 



Additional species : — 



I8ft0. A. spinotentaculus Hall, Suppl. (ieol. Rep. Iowa, I, p. 86. — Lower Burlington 

 limest. — Burlington, Iowa. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



TELEIOCRINUS W. X Sp., Rev. ii, p. 146. 



In the second part of the Catalogue of Amer. Pal. Foss., p. 

 268, Miller calls Teleiocrinus " a subgenus of doubtful utility." 

 The fact is we proposed it as a full genus of the Actinocrinites 

 and not a subgenus of Strotoerinus. We stated expressly, Tel- 

 eiocrinus holds the same relation to Actinocrinus as Strotoerinus 

 to Physetocrinus, which, curiously enough, are both accepted by 

 Miller. Probably all these genera are descendants of Actinocrinus, 

 and it is difficult to see how Miller can reject Teleiocrinus when 

 he accepts Strotoerinus. 



STEGANOCKINUS M. & W.., Rev. ii, p. 149. 

 AMPHORACRINUS Austin, Rev. ii, p. 151. 

 PHYSETOCRINUS M. &. W., Rev. ii, p. 155. 



Additional species : — 



*1881. P. Copei (S. A. Miller) Actinocrinus Copei, Jour. Cincin. Soe. Nat. Hist. 

 (Decbr.), PI. 7, figs. 2. 2 a.— This species, like all others which Miller 

 described from New Mexico, came from the Lower Burlington limestone, 

 and not from the Keokuk group. — Lake Valley, New Mexico. 



STROTOCRINUS M. & W., Rev. ii, p. 158. 



GENNJEOCRINUS W. & Sp., Rev. ii, p. 160. 



d. Batocrinites. 



BATOCRINUS Casseday, Rev. ii, p. 162. 



Additional species : — 



*1859. B. grandis (Lyon), Actinocrinus grandis, Amer. Journ. Sci., vol xxviii 

 (September), p. 240. — Keokuk limest. Kentucky and Tennessee. — In the 

 original description of this species, by mistake of the printer, the specific 

 name was omitted. Lyon evidently intended to name the species Act. 

 grandis, as that name is mentioned at the end of the description in dis- 

 cussing the geological position. We adopt this specific name, but place the 

 species under Batocrinus. It has two arms extended from each arm base, 

 a character only found among the Batocrinites. 



ERETMOCRINUS Lyon & Cass., Rev. ii, p. 170. 

 Additional species : — 



E. varsoviensis Worthen, 1882, Bull, i, Illinois State Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 30, and 

 Geol. Rep. Ills., vol. vii, p. 306, PI. 28, fig. 14. This species is synonymous with 

 E. originarius W. & Sp. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



DORYCRINUS Roemer, Rev. ii, p. 176. 

 Additional species : — 



D. lineatus S. A. Miller, L881, Journ. Cinein. Soc. Nat. Hist. (December), PI. 7, figs. 

 ."., 3 a, from New Mexico, is specifically identical with D. unicornis (0. & Shum.). 



Family VI.— PLATYCRINIDiE Roemer. 



(Emend. W. & Sp.). 



CULICOCRINUS Job. Miiller, Rev. ii, p. 61. 



This genus is known only from casts, and reasonable doubts 

 may be entertained as to the correctness of Mailer's figures. That 

 the whole ventral side had been covered by only five plates, as 

 described by Miiller, seemed to us not very probable, and we sug- 

 gested in our description that perhaps it had been composed of 

 eight pieces : a central plate, 6 proximals and an anal piece, of 

 which the sutures had been obliterated. Of late, however, we are 

 inclined to abandon this view, as the plates in question are too 

 large to be proximals, neither can they be orals, for the larger 

 plate is pierced by the anal opening. It seems to us Culicocrinus 

 represents morphologically a still lower form than even Cocco- 

 crinus, that its ambulacra were subtegminal, and probably also 

 the oral piece, unless this is represented by the tubercle in the 

 larger plate. 



COCCOCRINUS Job. Miiller. Rev. ii, p. 58. 



(Revised). 



In our generic description it was incorrectly stated that Cocco- 

 crinus had but a simple interradial to each side. This was partly 

 due to a misunderstanding of the plates. The first range consists 

 of three pieces, as clearly shown in Coccocrinus bacca Roemer 

 (Silur. Fauna West Tenn., PI. 4, fig. 5 c). The middle plate, the 

 one we described, rests within the notch of two first radials, the 

 other two against the upper face of one of them, and against the 

 second and third radials. A fourth plate, which we previously 

 described as an oral plate, but which we regard now a secondary 

 interradial, abuts against the upper faces of the three former. 

 The plates of adjoining interradii do not touch laterally, but are 

 separated by a very regular linear cleft, which extends all the way 

 from the central gap to the arm furrows. There are nowhere 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 337 



traces of ambulacra, which were probably hidden within the clefts, 

 and parti}' covered by the interradials, instead of being placed, as 

 we had supposed, on a level with them. A similar position was 

 probably occupied by the central plate, which, in our opinion, 

 formed the bottom part of the central space. 



We have but little doubt that the conditions of Coccocrinus 

 rosaceus were essential!}' the same as those of G. bacca; in the 

 former, however, the outer interradials were not preserved, having 

 been probably extended out to the free rays, as, more or less, in 

 the case of all discoid species of Platycrinus. That the}' were 

 present is indicated by the irregular width of the lateral clefts, 

 which, as seen in the specimens, suddenly widen on approaching 

 the arm bases, while they should rather grow narrower if repre- 

 senting the clefts between the orals in Holopus, as which they 

 were regarded by Carpenter. 



CORDYLOCRINUS Angelin, Rev. ii, p. 60. 



MARSUPIOCRINUS Phillips, Rev. ii, p. 62. 

 Additional species : — 



*1S75. M. praematurus (Hall), Platycrinus praematurus, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Palseont. 

 ii, p. 124, PI. 6, figs. 3-6.— Niagara gr. Green Co., 0. 



PLATYCRINUS Miller, Rev. ii, p. 65. 



PI. discoideus Hall, 1858, not Owen and Shumard, 1850. = Eucladocrinus 

 pleuroviminus White. 



Additional species not noted before : — 



1882. P. monroensis Worthen, Rull. i, 111. State Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 30; also Geol. 

 Rep. Ills, vii, p. 306, PI. 30, fig. 9. —St. Louis limest. Monroe Co., III.— We 

 have but little doubt that Prof. Worthen described here a young specimen of 

 P. bonoensis White. 

 1838. PI. coronatus Goldfuss, Nova Acta, Leop. xix, i, p. 344, PI. 31, fig. 8.— Car- 

 boniferous. Bristol, Engl. 



PL bloomfieldensis S. A. Miller, syn. of Platycrinus planus O. and Shum. 



PL poculum S. A. Miller. Too imperfect for identification. 



PL vesiculus McCoy, Rev. ii, p. 76, read PL vesiculosus. 



PL praematurus Hall & Whitf. = Marsupiocrinus praematurus. 



EUCLADOCRINUS Meek, Rev. ii, p. 76. 



COTYLEDONOCRINUS Cass and Lyon, Rev. ii, p. 77. 

 23 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Family VLL— HEXACRINIDJE W. and Sp. 

 HEXACRINUS Austin. Rev. ii, p. 78. 



Additional species : — 



1884. H. minor (Dewalque MS.), Fraipont, Extrait des Ann. de la Soc. g6ol. de Belg., 

 Tome xi, p. 110, PI. 1, figs. 4 a and 4 b. — Devon, superieur. Senzeille, Bel- 

 gium. 



1884. H. verucosus (Dewalque MS.), Fraipont, Ibid., p. 108, PI. 1, fig. 3. — Devon, 

 auperieur. Senzeille, Belgium. 



1S82. H. Wachsmuthi Oehlert, Bull. g6ol. de France (Ser. 3), Tome x. p. 355, PI. 8, 

 fig. 3. — Devon, inferieur. Sabre and La Fleche, France. 



ARTHROACANTHA Williams. 



18S3. Williams, Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. (April), p. 84. 



Syn. Hystricrinus Hinde, 1885, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (March), 

 p. 158. 



Prof. Williams proposed the name Arthroacantha in 1883, for 

 a Crinoid of the Hexacrinus type -with movable spines, of which 

 he described and figured one species, A. Ithacensis, from the 

 Chemung of New York. He also defined the characters of 

 another species, from the Hamilton group, which had been named 

 by Hall as Platycrinus punctobrachiatus, but not defined by him, 

 except through the medium of a photograph privately distributed. 

 To the latter species Williams gave the name Arthroacantha 

 punctobrachiata. 



In 1885, Dr. Hinde (Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., p. 158), proposed 

 the name Hystricrinus for the genus defined by Williams, and 

 described and figured a species, H. Carpenteri, from specimens 

 derived from the Hamilton group of Ontario, Canada. He states 

 that eminent authorities decided Williams' name to be invalid, by 

 reason of its similarity to Arthr acanthus, previously emplo}'ed by 

 Schmarda for a genus of Rotatoria. Examination of the question 

 in the light of the Rules of the British Association, adopted in 

 1865, has led us to the conclusion that Arthroacantha, however 

 injudiciously chosen to designate a genus of Crinoid, will have to 

 stand. The tenth Rule (Am. Jour. Sci., July, 1869, p. 101) says : 

 "A name should be changed which has before been proposed for 

 some other genus in zoology or botany." It is evident from this 

 that a proposed name may be ignored on account of identity with 

 a prior name, but not by reason of mere similarity or resemblance 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 339 



in form, however close. It is the word itself which determines 

 its standing, and not its signification or derivation. The question 

 is one of authority, and not of propriety or expediency, and it 

 will be seen that the committee who reported the above- 

 mentioned rule to the British Associaton, took the same view as 

 to its effect that we do (Am. Journ., July, 1869, p. 107). Arthroa- 

 canlha is a different word from Arthracanthus, although of the 

 same et3'mology, and of similar construction, and there are other 

 names of recognized standing in natural history, which bear a 

 closer resemblance to prior names than this. 



Another bibliographic question arises as to the species of this 

 genus. Hall made a good figure of the type, which he called PL 

 punctobrachiatus, but his plates were not published. Williams, 

 however, when establishing the genus gave a brief but very clear 

 definition of the characters of Hall's type specimen (Proc. Am. 

 Phil. Soc, 1883, p. 83), and proposed for it the name Arthroa- 

 cantha punctobrachiata. On p. 86 he again defined its principal 

 characters by comparison with A. ithacensis. The " definition " 

 necessary to impart authority to a published zoological term im- 

 plies a " distinct exposition of essential characters." (See Com- 

 mittee's Report on Rule 12, Am. Journ., 1869, p. 102.) This was 

 given by Williams far better than has been done in a great many 

 specific descriptions of well known Crinoids. It is our opinion, 

 therefore, that A. punctobrachiata is a good species, and that it 

 must be credited to Williams. Whether Hinde's species is iden- 

 tical with A. punctobrachiata we cannot undertake to determine 

 without more direct comparison of specimens. We have exam- 

 ined specimens from the Hamilton group of Ontario, Canada, 

 which undoubtedly belong to A. punctobrachiata, and it is not 

 improbable that A. Carpenter i may prove to be the same thing. 



Arthroacantha is closely allied to Hexacrinus, from which it 

 differs in having three primary radials instead of two, and mova- 

 ble spines along the surface of the plates. That the spines, which 

 are frequentty found in close proximity to the plates, are not 

 mere broken parts of the plates, but constitute independent struc- 

 tures, is clearly seen from Prof. Williams' specimens, which he was 

 good enough to send us for examination. The nature of the 

 spines was disclosed to us more satisfactorily in specimens of A. 

 punctobrachiata from the Hamilton of Canada, in which not only 

 the calyx, but also portions of the arms were preserved, and in 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



which numerous detached spines lie upon the surface of the plates 

 close to the tubercles from which they had been detached. That 

 these spines, to some extent, were movable, is more than proba- 

 ble. They were evidently connected with the plates by elastic 

 ligament, so as to 3-ield when accidentally brought in contact with 

 other objects, like the joints in a column, but we doubt if beyond 

 this the}' represent, either functionally or structurally, the spines 

 of the Echini. 



These views differ somewhat from those held by Williams, who 

 thinks it " not improbable that the original plates of Lepidocen- 

 trus eifelianus, described and figured by Johannes Miiller, which 

 were detached plates, associated with spines similar in nature to 

 those just described and borne upon similar tubercles, were plates 

 from the vault of a true Crinoid like Arthroacantha." And he 

 remarks further, " we have here a possible clue to a relationship 

 between true Crinoids and Perischcechinidie. 



There is in our opinion not the slightest doubt but that Mid- 

 ler's figures represent Echinoid plates, and that the spines which 

 were found associated with them had the same functions as those 

 of the true Urchins of later epochs ; but we think that the spines 

 of Arthroacantha form component parts of the plates taken sepa- 

 rately, and as such we regard them as representing in a modified 

 way the ordinary undivided spiniferous plates of other Crinoids. 

 For this reason we cannot regard the movable spines of Arthroa- 

 cantha of much more than of specific importance, but as the spe- 

 cies also possess an additional primary radial, it ma} r be well to 

 separate them generically from species of Hexacrinus which do 

 not have them. We allude to this more particularly, as Williams 

 and also Hinde, was inclined to regard Arthroacantha as the type 

 of a distinct family, a distinction, which, in our opinion, gives to 

 the movability of the spines a degree of importance which it does 

 from a morphological standpoint not deserve. 



Wo also doubt if (?) Arthroacantha Carpenteri had whorls of 

 cirrhi throughout the column, as supposed by Hinde. The col- 

 li in uar fragments which he figured on PI. 4 — if they belong to 

 this species at all — evidently formed the lower [tortious of the 

 stem, as shown l»3 r the size and the irregular arrangement of their 

 branches, and as such are regarded b} 7 us merely as radicular 

 cirrhi. 



Generic Diagnosis. — In form and arrangement of plates closely 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 341 



allied to Hexacrinus. All plates of the dorsal cup, the arro plates, 

 and all interradial and summit plates, covered with numerous, 

 irregularly arranged tubercles, provided centrally with a small 

 pit for the reception of a long acicular spine. 



Basals three, large, pentagonal. Primary radials 3X5; the 

 lower one very large ; the two upper ones small. 



The anal plate has nearly form and size of the first radials, and 

 occupies a similar position. The interradials are numerous and 

 either cover the ambulacra completely, or open out to expose the 

 covering plates. All plates of the ca^-x, dorsally and ventrally, 

 except the basals, are provided with one or more movable spines, 

 also the oral plate and proximals, but not the covering pieces, 

 which, however, as stated, are not always exposed. Anus sub- 

 central. 



Arms two from each ray, simple or branching, and giving ofl 

 slender pinnules from each joint. The proximal arm plates are 

 composed of single cuneiform pieces, but these gradual!}' interlock 

 and turn into two series of alternate plates. Column round. 



Geological position, etc. — Arthroacanlha has been found in the 

 upper part of the Devonian, and of America onlj r . 



1883. Arthroacantha ithacensis Williams, Type of the genus. Amcr. Philos. Soc, 



April, p. 83, with figures. — HarailtoD gr. Near Ithaca, N. Y. 

 1882. A. punctobrachiata Williams, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. (April), pp. 83 and 86 

 (figured by Hall as Platycrinus punctobrachiatus). — Hamilton gr. Ontario, 

 Can. 

 *1885. A. Carpenteri (?) Hinde (Hystricrinus Carpenteri), Ann. and Mag. Nat. 

 Hist. (March), p. 162, PI. 4. — Hamilton gr. Ancona, Ontario, Can. (Prob- 

 ably a Syn. of Arthroacantha punctobrachiata Williams. 



DICHOCRINUS Minister, Rev. ii, p. 81. 



Additional species : — 



I860. D. lachrymosus Hall, Suppl. Geol. Rep. Iowa by Hall, p. 84. — Upper Burling- 

 ton limest. Burlington, Iowa. — This species was erroneous!}* referred by us 

 to Platycrinus, and was said to be synonymous with PI. subspinulosus, 

 with which it agrees in the ornamentation of the plates. Fine specimens 

 which we obtained lately, have convinced us that it is a Dichocrinus, and 

 was correctly separated by Hall. It has a comparativel} - large number of 

 interradial plates, a very conspicuous oral, and six large proximal plates. 

 The anal aperture is lateral, somewhat protruding, placed at the upper edge 

 of one of the first interradials, which is somewhat excavated. The radial 

 dome plates are composed of small alternate pieces which we followed up to 

 the second bifurcation of the raj-. Arms given off from the third secondary 

 radials, whence they branch once or twice again, always from the third plate. 




842 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



D. coxanus Worthen, 1882, Bull, i, Illinois State Mus., p. 35, and Geol. Rep. 111., 

 vol. vii, p. 313, PL 27, fig. 7. we take to be a mere synonym of Dichocrinus ficus. 

 1882. D. hamiltonensis Worthen, Bull, i, 111. State .Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 35; also Geol. 

 Rep. III., vol. v ii. p. 313, PI. 27, fig. 10.— Keokuk liuiest. Hamilton, 111. 



TALAROCRINUS W. & Sp., Rev. ii, p. 85. 

 Additional species : — 



1882. T. ovatus Worthen, Bull, i, Illinois State Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 36; also Geol. 

 Rep. 111., vii, p. 314, PI. 19, fig. 11.— Kaskaskia, gr. Monroe Co., III. 



PTEROTOCRINUS Lyon & Cass., Rev. ii, p. 87. 



Family VIII.— ACROCRINID^ W. and Sp. 



The Acrocrinidae, so far as known, are represented by a single 

 genus, and of this only three species have been described, two 

 from the Chester (Kaskaskia) limestone, and one from the coal 

 measures of America. 



No attempt has ever been made to assign the genus Acrocrinus 

 to its proper systematic position. Zittel and He Loriol in their 

 classifications omit it entirely, and the descriptions by Yandell 

 and llall, which were from imperfect specimens, are indistinct and 

 partly incorrect. Thanks to the kindness of Prof. Worthen, we 

 have been able to examine a very perfect specimen of an unde- 

 scribed species, which one of us described for volume vii of the 

 Illinois Geological Report, and of which preliminary descriptions 

 were published in Bulletin I, of the Illinois State Museum of Nat. 

 Hist., p. 41. The specimen shows plainly that the base is bipar- 

 tite, as Hall suspected, and not undivided, as stated by Yandell. 

 Fortunately the other plates of the calyx were also in place, and 

 in a condition to be critically examined. 



Acrocrinus departs from most Palaeocrinoidea in two important 

 particulars, and upon these, mainly, the present family is founded. 

 First : The plates of the calyx, which in all other species with 

 large numbers of plates decrease in size from the basals to the 

 arm bases, in Acrocrinus exhibit a decided increase in the same 

 direction. Second : The radials are not connected with the basals, 

 but separated from them by several rings of plates, which in po- 

 sition are partly radial, partly interradial, and which apparently 

 are not represented in other genera of the Palaeocrinoidea. 

 This peculiar structure renders it exceedingly difficult in this 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



form to identify even those elements which are so readily recog- 

 nized in other genera. 



In Acrocrinus Wortheni Wachsmuth, the comparatively large 

 basals are succeeded by a ring of twelve triangular plates, so 

 minute, however, that it requires a magnifier to discover them. 

 Another series of twelve larger plates constitutes the second 

 ring. These plates are joined by their lateral edges, their lower 

 angles resting between the preceding plates. Five of them have 

 a radial direction, seven are placed interradially, one opposite 

 each of the four regular interradial sides, three facing the anal 

 side. Ten of the plates are hexagonal ; only the middle one on 

 the az3'gous side, and the plate which is directed to the anterior 

 ra3 T , are heptagonal. The two latter plates have truncate upper 

 sides, which support, respectively, a vertical row of four very 

 similar hexagonal pieces ; one of them is interradial, and succeeded 

 by anal plates, the other strictly radial. 



The third ring consists of fourteen plates, larger than those of 

 the preceding one. They are not so regularly arranged, and more 

 variable in their size and form. Twelve of them alternate with 

 the plates of the second ring, while the other two rest upon the 

 truncate upper side of the heptagonal pieces just described. By 

 this arrangement (see diagram, PI. 9, fig. 1), the plate toward the 

 anterior ray is the only plate in this ring which has a radial posi- 

 tion, all others being located interradially, two to each of the four 

 regular interradial sides, four to the azygous side. 



The plates of the fourth ring differ considerably in form and 

 size, and their whole arrangement is irregular throughout. They 

 are sixteen in number, five radial in position, five directed to the 

 anal side, one to each side adjoining the anterior ray, and two to 

 each of the other two interradial sides. 



Above the fourth ring, the plates are readily recognized as 

 radials and interradials. In the specimen there are 2X5 radials, 

 and the interradials consist of three to each of the four regular 

 sides, and eight on the az} T gous side. The two radials connect 

 with the radial plates of the fourth ring only in the anterior ray, 

 in the four other rays they are separated from that ring by two 

 interradial pieces, which join underneath. 



In the original description of Acrocrinus Wortheni, the plates 

 of the fourth ring were included with the radials and interradials, 

 and the number of the former was given at three in the four 




344 PROCEEDINGS OP TEE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



lateral rays, and four in the anterior ray, the number of inter- 

 radials at six to seven, with eighteen anal pieces. 



In this formula, the so-called first radials in four of the rays are 

 laterall}- separated from the rest by intervening interradial pieces, 

 a very uncommon but not altogether unprecedented occurrence 

 among Palreocrinoids. In Periechocrinus the radials are not 

 unfrequently found connected by their angles only, and some- 

 times, but exceptionally, one of them is altogether separated from 

 the rest by intervening interradial plates. Such a feature, thus 

 widely departing from the usual mode of occurrence, may in 

 certain cases become a fixed and constant character, but it must 

 not be overlooked, that by admitting the plates of this upper 

 ring as radials, it becomes imperative to extend the term radials 

 to every radial plate below, as each one of them is separated 

 from the preceding plate in a like manner. This would increase 

 the number of radials in Acrocrinus Wortheni to five (there was 

 evidently a small bifurcating piece filling the concavity of the 

 upper plate) in the lateral rays, and six in the anterior ra}', a 

 comparatively small number to what we must expect to find in 

 Acrocrinus Shumardi, if we adopt the above interpretation for 

 these plates. 



Through the kindness of Prof. Whitfield, we recently had an 

 opportunit}' to examine three specimens of the latter species from 

 the Museum of Natural History of New York, which have afforded 

 us additional information upon this interesting genus. 



Acrocrinus Shumardi is much larger than Acrocr. Wortheni, 

 and the calyx is composed of six to seven hundred pieces, while 

 in the latter it has less than one hundred. There are two large 

 basals ; two contiguous radials, the lower one small, pentagonal, 

 the other hexagonal with excavated upper side ; three interradial 

 pieces arranged as in the preceding species, the larger one resting 

 between both radials of adjoining rays, the two lower ones abut- 

 ting against the lower sloping sides of the second radials. The 

 above radials and interradials are distinctly separated from the 

 basals by a belt of small hexagonal pieces, which in position are 

 partly radial, partly interradial. They are arranged alternately 

 in rows, thoee of each successive series comparatively larger ; but, 

 while in A. Wortheni there are only four rings of from 12 to 14 

 pieces, Yandell's species has 14 to 20 rings, more or less, and 25 

 to 30 or more plates in each ring. Counting as before all plates 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF tHILADELTIIIA. 345 



which are radial in position as radials,and all intermediate plates 

 as interradials, the species possesses 12 and more radials to the 1 ay, 

 and 100 and more plates in each interradial space — an enormous 

 increase over the plates in Acrocr. Wortheni. Such a wide differ- 

 ence in the number of interradial plates among species of the 

 same genus is certainly very remarkable, but might be accounted 

 for, as this class of plates is subject to great variation ; but a 

 numerical difference in the primary radials, if such w:is the case, 

 would be exceptional. The primary radials are elements which, 

 once developed, do not multiply, but their number is constant 

 throughout the genus, and we doubt if Acrocrinus forms such a 

 remarkable exception to the rule. It seems to us more probable 

 that only the two large, contiguous upper plates, and the small 

 triangular bifurcating piece succeeding them, are radials, that 

 only the three intervening pieces in a lateral direction are true 

 interradials, and that all lower plates, from the basals up, are 

 merely accessory pieces, which obtained their position, whether 

 radial or interradial, accidentally through their alternate arrange- 

 ment, and the regularity with which they are distributed. By 

 this interpretation the two species, which appeared to be so widely 

 distinct, are brought within the limits of the same rule — both 

 having the same number of radials, interradials and anal plates. 

 It is true that accessory pieces like these are not found dorsally in 

 any other genus of the Palseocrinoidea, but they are not uncom- 

 mon among Cystideans,and similar plates occur ventrall} 7 in some 

 of the larger Actinocrinidae and Rhodocrinidae, which, like those 

 of the calyx, increase numerically by age, being represented some- 

 times by a single ring, and again, in the same species, hy a wide 

 belt of pieces. The accessory pieces in Acrocrinus increased in 

 number by adding constantly new rings above the basals. This 

 is well shown by the small specimen of Acrocrinus Wortheni, in 

 which the plates of the latest ring are yet triangular, only the 

 upper portion being developed ; and it is further indicated by 

 the increase in the size of the plates, which is in an upward 

 direction. 



In two of the New York specimens, the arms are partly pre- 

 served, and in the third one also portions of the vault. Acrocri- 

 nus had a third primary radial, which had not been observed in 

 Acrocrinus Wortheni. It is triangular and resembles the small 

 second radials of Platycrinus, resting like those within the con- 




346 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



cavity of the larger plate. There are also secondary radials, but 

 those extend into free rays. 



ACROCRINUS Yandcll. 



I s ":,. Yandell, Ann r. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. xx (new ser.), p, 135. 



1858 Hall, Ge >1. Rep. Iowa i, PI. ii, p. 689. 



1882. Wacnsmuth, Bull, i, Illinois St. Mus. Nat. Hist., p. 41. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx goblet-cup or urn-shaped; 

 composed of a large number of plates, which increase in size 

 gradually from the basals up; plates thin and without ornamen- 

 tation. 



Basals two, comparatively large, either formed into a cup, or 

 thickened at the lower side and extended into a rim; sometimes 

 depressed and in form of a disk. The two plates are about equal, 

 their suture running from the anterior to the posterior side; the 

 upper side not excavated. 



Primary radials 3X5, separated from the basals by a belt of 

 numerous, small hexagonal pieces, arranged alternately in rows, 

 those of each succeeding series comparatively larger. The first 

 plate pentagonal, resting with the lower angles between the inter- 

 radial plates of adjoining fields, the upper side supporting a 

 second radial. Second radials hexagonal, more than twice as 

 large as the first, especially much wider. They abut by their 

 lower sloping sides against the upper interradials, and their 

 lateral faces rest against corresponding plates of adjoining rays, 

 except toward the posterior side, where an anal plate intervenes. 

 Their upper sides are truncate and somewhat excavated. The 

 third radials are axillary, very small, triangular, sometimes but 

 partly occupying the concavity of the preceding plate. The 

 higher orders of radials, so far as known, are extended into free 

 rays as in Platycrinus. There are 2X2X5 secondary radials, 

 which rest obliquely against the sloping sides of the triangular 

 piece. They are short but wide ; their inner sides connected by 

 a suture, the outer side partPy placed against a second primary 

 radial, filling part of its concavit}', and partly extended beyond 

 it. In Acrocr. Shumardi, the outer pair of secondary radials 

 gives oft' an arm ; the inner division bifurcates again at the second 

 plate, and supports 2X2 tertiary radials with an arm each, thus 

 giving three arms to each main division, and six to the entire ray. 

 The arm formula, however, may vary in other species. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



Arms long, of nearly equal thickness throughout their length. 

 They are composed of two series of very short pieces, alternately 

 arranged. Ventral furrow wide and deep. Pinnules long, closely 

 packed together, composed of six to seven joints, three times 

 longer than wide. 



Interradials three, in two series ; the first series composed of 

 two plates, which rest upon the belt of the supplementary inter- 

 vening pieces already described, and between the sloping sides of 

 the second radials. The second series consists of a single piece, 

 placed between the upper sloping sides of the first radials, and 

 the lower sloping sides of the second radials. The azj-gous side 

 is known onby in A. Wortheni. In that species it is composed of 

 two hexagonal anal plates, resting upon a row of similar pieces, 

 which, like those, are longitudinally arranged. The upper anal 

 plate is placed in line with the second primary radials, and is higher, 

 but not quite so wide ; the second plate is somewhat smaller. At 

 each side of the anal plates there are three interradials, which are 

 formed and arranged like those of the four other sides. 



The ventral covering is but imperfectly known ; we only observed 

 numerous thin, very minute, irregular pieces, with an elevation 

 toward each ray. Position and form of the anus unknown. 



Column round, somewhat tapering downward, composed of 

 thin joints ; central canal small. 



Geological Position, etc. — Acrocrinus is the last and only sur- 

 viving genus of the Camarata at the close of the subcarbonil'erous. 

 It has been found only in the Mississippi valley, where it is 

 exceedingly rare. 



1855. A. Shumardi Yandell. Type of the genus, Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. xx 

 (new ser.), p. 135 with figure. (It was previously figured without descrip- 

 tion or name by Yandell and Shumard, 1817, in their Contrib. Geol. Ken- 

 tucky, PI. 1, fig. 3). — Chester or Kaskaskia liinest. Grayson Co., Ky. 



1858. A. urnaeformis Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, PI. ii, p. 690, PL 25, fig. 11 a, b.— 

 Chester or Kaskaskia limest. Pope Co., 111. 



1882. A. Wortheni Wachsmuth. Bull, i, 111. .St. AIus. Xat. Hist., p. 41; also Geol. 

 Rep. 111., vii, p. 343, PI. 30, fig. 13.— Coal measures. Peoria Co., III. 



Family IX.— BARRANDEOCRINID.E Angl. 



BARRANDEOCRINTJS Angl. 



This is one of the most remarkable forms of the Paloeocrinoidea. 

 Looking at a perfect specimen with all its arms intact, it super- 




348 PROCEEDINGS OP TIIE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



ficially resembles a Blastoid. However, with the arms removed, 

 it is found to possess all the essential characters of the Actino- 

 crinidse, and doubts might be entertained whether it should not 

 be grouped with that family. Angelin and Zittel have made it 

 the type of a distinct family, and we think the peculiar construc- 

 tion of the arms and ventral side fully justifies this separation. 

 The arms of Barrandeocrinus i if we correctly understand the fig- 

 ures, were permanently in a recumbent state or moved with great 

 difficulty ; they were laterally connected at the tips of their pin- 

 nules, at least those of the same ray, and could not be closed in 

 the usual way. 



Generic Diagnosis. — In its general outline, with the arms at- 

 tached, resembling a Blastoid ; form globose; calyx, without arms, 

 cup-shaped. Arms arranged in pairs; recumbent; their dorsal 

 side directed toward the calyx, the ventral side exposed to view. 

 They are united laterally by the tips of their pinnules so as to 

 completely cover the calyx, and extend beyond it to the upper 

 part of the column, which is somewhat indented for their reception. 



Basals three, equal. Primary radials (?) 3 X 5, 1 the first con- 

 siderably larger. The axillary radials support at each upper side 

 a single rather large secondary radial, and these support an arm 

 each. Interradials arranged as in the Actinocrinidae ; the four 

 regular sides, up to the aims, consisting of oi\\y one plate, which 

 rests upon the first radials. The axygous side has two large 

 anal plates ; the lower one meeting the basals, the other placed 

 between the interradial which is bisected for its reception. These 

 are succeeded by three much smaller and elongate interradial 

 plates, and a similar number of interaxillary pieces of exactly the 

 same form and arrangement as the three interradial ones. Ven- 

 tral surface deeply depressed along interradial and interaxillary 

 spaces, the depressions which grow deeper toward the equatorial 

 zone alternating with ten flattened ridges which led to the ten arms. 



Arms heavy ; composed of a single row of closely set, quad- 



1 Angelin slates that the number of radials is 2X5, while Zittel gives it 

 as 3 X 5. In Angelin's figure. Icon. Suec., PI. v, figs. G, 6 a, there appear 

 to be but two primary radials, the second plate being axillary. But in the 

 specimens represented on PI. iv., fig. 5 a, and PI. xxii, fig. 3, three of them 

 ar^' visible, arranged as those of Actinocrinus. It is probable that the true 

 number is three, and that in the first mentioned specimen 1 he sutures be- 

 tween the sccoud and third radials became obliterated by anchylosis. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



rangular plates, with strong, apparently immovable pinnules, lat- 

 erally connected. The arms are so closely folded together that 

 they appear as if they were suturally connected, and formed 

 around the calyx a solid body with ten ambulacra upon the surface. 



Column stout, circular, with pentangular axial canal. 



The only known species is : 



1S78. Barrandeocrinus sceptrum Angl. Icono. Crin. Suec. p. S, PI. 4, fig-, j, 5 a, 

 and PI. 5, figs. 6, 6a, and PI. 22, figs. 2-4. — Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



Family X.— CALYPTOCRINIDJE Roemer. 



Roemer, in proposing this family, used the name Eucalyptocri- 

 nidas (Leth. Geogn., Aug. 3, 1855, p. 229), which was afterwards 

 changed b}' Angelin to Calyptocrinidae (Icon. Crin. Suec, 1879, 

 p. 14). The latter name was accepted by Zittel, who referred to 

 it also Lyriocrinus Hall, which we have placed under the Rho- 

 docrinidre. 



ETJCALYPTOCRINUS Goldfuss. 



(HYPANTHOCRINUS Phillips.) 



1826. Goldfuss. Petref. Germ., i, p. 212. 



1835. Agnssiz. Mem. Soc. des Sci. natur. de Neucbatel, i, p. 197. 



18o8. Goldfuss. Nova Acta. Leopold., xix, i, p. 335. 



1841. Midler. Eerl. Acad. d. Wissensch., p. 210. 



1841. Hall. Paleont. -N. York, ii, p. 207. 



1843. Roemer. Rbein. Nebergangsgeb., p. 04. 



1850. D'Oibgny. Piodr. de Paleont., i, p. 45. 



1852. Quenstedt. Handb. der. Petrefacteuk., p. 624. 



1854. McCoy (in part). Synops. Brit. Palasoz. Fossils, p. 57. 



1855. F. Roemer. Letbaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3 , p. 257. 

 1857. Pxtet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 3U7. 



1860. Bionn. Klassen des Thierreicbs (Actinozoa), PI. 27. 



1862. Hall. Notice. of New Foss. from YVald.on, p. 3. 



1862. Dujardin and Dui e. Hist, natur. des Zoopb. Ecbin., p. 115. 



1865. Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist. p. 32. 



1866. Scbultze. Monogr. Ecbin. Eifl. Kalk., p. 90. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Crinoid. Suec, p. 16. 



1879. Hall. 28tb Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist. (edit, ii), Pis. 16-19. 

 1879. Wetberby. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (April), No. 5. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Paleont., i, p. 379. 



1882. S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July). 



(?) Syn. Hypanthocrinus Pbill., 1839; Murcbi.-on's Silur. System, 

 p. 672, PI. 17, fig. 3 ; Zittel, 1879 ; Angelin, 1878 ; S. A. Miller, 1880. 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



There is some doubt whether Hypanthocrinus Phillips is a 

 synonym of Eucalyptocrinus or a good genus. Hypanthocrinus 

 was separated by Phillips simply upon the presence of a column, 

 which Goklfnss thought to be absent in Exicalyptocrinus, but as 

 E. rosaceus, his type is known to be pedunculated, this distinc- 

 tion fails. Angelin and Zittel, who both uphold Hypanthocrinus, 

 describe the base as being less deeply funnel-shaped, the anal 

 tube as extending beyond the arms, and the partition walls sur- 

 rounding the arms as being constructed principally of a single 

 piece. A critical comparison has convinced us that these charac- 

 ters are not constant throughout the species. The'onby character 

 upon which a separation might possibly be effected, is the pro- 

 boscis-like anal tube, but this part, unfortunately, is rarely pre- 

 served. Some of the American species with a long tube have a 

 deep, funnel-shaped base, while in others with a simple opening, 

 the base is comparatively shallow. In all of them the partition 

 walls between the arms consist of two pieces, but in some species 

 the lower one is comparatively longer than in others. We shall 

 ignore Hypanthocrinus until better distinctions are given. 



Eucalyptocrinus is closely allied to Callicrinus, from which it 

 differs in having rudimentary partitions between the arms, ex- 

 tending out only a short distance, leaving the greater part of the 

 arms free and unprotected. 



A mong the species that have been referred to Eucalyptocrinus, 

 are several which were described from natural casts. We do not 

 deny that their generic relations were correctly identified, nor 

 that differences of specific value probably exist among them, but 

 we doubt if it is possible for any one to decide from internal 

 casts whether such specimens are specificall} r distinct from others 

 in which the test is preserved, and hence consider them for the 

 present as doubtful species. 



Troost's Eucalyptocrinus conicus, E. extensus, E. gibbosus, E. 

 Goldfussi, E. Itevis, E. Nashvillse, E. Phillipsii and E. Tennes- 

 see, all from the Niagara of Western Tennessee, are mere cata- 

 logue names, no descriptions having been published. 



Generic Diagnosis. — When the arms are attached more or less 

 ovoid ; without arms resembling a wine bottle with concave bot- 

 tom and long slender neck. The neck is surrounded by ten par- 

 titions, arranged vertically so as to form ten niches or compart- 

 ments for the reception of the arms. The calyx is composed of 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



heavy plates, is either cup- or saucer-shaped, with basal regions 

 deeph' concave, somewhat funnel-shaped. In the dorsal cup the 

 pentamerous sj'mmetry is interrupted by the basals only ; at the 

 ventral side, however, it is greatly disturbed. Anus central, lo- 

 cated at the top of the neck-like prolongation, or at the end of 

 a tube. 



Basals four, small, unequal in size, one of them larger than the 

 rest; axial canal five-rayed; its radii directed interradially, there 

 being two of them in the larger plate. As a rule the basals are 

 not seen externally, being placed at the upper end of the concav- 

 ity, which also involves the greater part of the first radials, and 

 frequently other plates. 



Radials in three orders, the tertiary radials, however, imper- 

 fectly developed, and taking rather the form of brachials. Pri- 

 mary radials 3X5; the first one large, wider than the other two ; 

 the second quadrangular, wider than high; the third hexagonal, 

 its upper side truncate for the reception of an interaxillary plate. 

 Secondaiy radials 2 X 2 X 5, all pentangular, the lower series larger 

 than the upper, those of the same division connected by horizon- 

 tal suture. The upper secondary radial is axillaiy, and supports 

 the tertiary radials, which are composed of two short transverse 

 pieces supporting the arms. 



Dorsal interradials three to each interradius, throughout the 

 genus, in young as well as in adult specimens. The lower one is 

 the largest plate in the calyx, and always decagonal. The two 

 upper plates are connected by a vertical suture to their full 

 length, and both combined are smaller than the lower one. Their 

 upper ends form a narrow quadrangular projection, which extends 

 to the top of the tertiary radials, and supports upon its truncate 

 upper side the interradial partition walls. The interaxillary plates 

 of the dorsal side consist of a single piece in each ray, placed 

 between the secondary radials. In form and dimensions it resem- 

 bles most remarkably the two upper interradial plates, its upper 

 end projecting in a similar manner to the top of the tertiary 

 radials, and also supporting a partition. The peculiar projections 

 between the arm sockets give to the specimen a very marked 

 appearance, and when the ventral side is not preserved, form a 

 reliable guide for generic identification. 



The ventral side consists of four rings of plates. The lower 

 ring is composed of five elongate interradials, which rest upon 




352 PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



the projecting faces of the interradials at the dorsal side. There 

 are five interaxillary plates of a similar form, supported by the 

 dorsal interaxillaries, and ten small triangular interbrachial pieces, 

 interposed in such a manner between the foregoing plates that 

 always an interradial and an interaxillary meet laterally above 

 an interbrachial. The second and third rings consist of four 

 plates each; the fourth of ten. The two former ones together 

 form the neck-like prolongation of the body, and the plates of the 

 fourth ring, combined with those of the first ring, the partition 

 walls encasing the arms. 



The interradials and interaxillaries of the first ring are uniform 

 in size and shape ; they are knife-like, their blunt sides exposed 

 to view, their sharp edges turned inward. Toward the lower end 

 where the plates decrease in depth, lateral flanges project out 

 from their inner edges, which unite suturally, and enclose the 

 visceral cavity, while the knife-like outer portions, as we under- 

 stand it, are merely extraordinary protuberances, like the nodes 

 or spines in some Actinocrinidae, but forming by means of their 

 connected wing-like extensions a cover or protection for the 

 arms. 



The plates of the second ring fit into the ten angles formed by 

 the preceding plates, but do not alternate with them. Two of 

 them are a little wider, and these are alternately arranged with 

 the smaller ones. The two narrower plates are generally longer, 

 angular above, while the two others are truncate, and their lateral 

 faces slightly sloping upward. When united, they form a funnel 

 with the narrow opening upward. Transversely they form a ring 

 with ten protuberances, which on their outer surface represent 

 longitudinal ridges. The ridges correspond in position with the 

 interradial and interaxillary partition walls which overlap them, 

 while the alternate grooves form the inner angle of the niches. 



The third ring, like the second, consists of four plates, but 

 these, as a rule, are not so large, and have a more irregular 

 arrangement ; two of them are generally shorter, and do not 

 touch those of the preceding ring. They are provided at their 

 outer faces with ten longitudinal ridges, which, to their full 

 length, are overlapped by the partition walls, which extend down- 

 ward from the fourth ring of plates. 



The plates of the fourth ring are constructed upon a similar 

 plan as those of the first ring. Like those, they consist of ten 




1885.] NATUKAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



pieces, but they undergo more variations among species, and show- 

 more irregularities than any of the other plates. In some species 

 they are confined almost exclusively to the upper face, being mere 

 top pieces ; in others they represent an important part in the par- 

 tition walls, while in still others they extend deeply down into 

 the tubular neck, forming the upper part of its walls. In all 

 cases, however, their obtuse edges are turned outward, and form 

 the upper part of the partition, being suturally connected with 

 the lower part of them. 



The plates covering the tubular neck, i. e., anal plates, consist 

 of small pieces, with a somewhat subcentral opening, or, as in 

 Eucalyptocrinus rigens Angelin, of valvular plates. Sometimes 

 they are extended into a free tube, composed of hexagonal pieces. 

 The arrangement of the plates surrounding the anal opening is 

 more regular than it appears from some specimens. The apparent 

 irregularities are caused largeby by the plates of the third ring, 

 which, in some species, have their upper ends partly exposed. 



The arms are arranged in pairs, each pair filling one of the ten 

 compartments, with an interradial partition wall on one side, and 

 an interaxillary one on the other. The arms evidently moved 

 with difficulty, being heavy, and in the adult composed of two 

 rows of short transverse pieces, with horizontal sutures, but there 

 was a single row of wedge-shaped pieces in 3 r oung specimens. 

 They have a deep ventral furrow, and long pinnules composed of 

 numerous joints, which gradually decrease in width. The arms 

 and pinnules are so closely fitted into the partition walls, that 

 when the arms are perfectly closed, it appears as if they were 

 suturally connected and constituted a part of the body. 



The visceral cavity actually is formed only by the plates of the 

 dorsal cup and by the two lower rings of plates in the vault, the 

 plates of the two upper ones forming the neck-like prolongation. 

 The food grooves enter the calyx at the base of the arms, and 

 proceed within shallow grooves at the inner floor to near the top 

 of the second ring. The hydrospires evidently extended to the 

 lower portion of the neck, and perhaps (?) communicated with 

 the exterior through the anal aperture, as apparently no other 

 opening except the ambulacral passages enter the body. 



The column is moderately large, cylindrical, composed of rather 

 long joints, with pentapetalous central canal. It evidently had no 

 lateral cirrhi, except at the root, where it gives off hundreds of 



24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



little rootlets, which gradually taper, spreading out horizon- 

 tally. 



Eucalyptocrinus is one of the most perplexing genera, especi- 

 ally by reason of its peculiar ventral structure. The only ventral 

 plates aboul which there seems to he no doubt are those of the 

 firsl ring, which have been designated by all writers as large inter- 

 radials and interaxillaries, i. e., interdistichalia. More dubious 

 arc those of the second ring, which partly cover the peristome. 

 They fit with their projecting angles into the ten re-entering angles 

 formed by the sloping sides of the preceding plates. The plates 

 of the one ring practically alternate with those of the other, for 

 by bisecting the two smaller plates, and dividing the larger ones 

 into three pieces, we obtain ten nearly equal plates, alternately 

 arranged, thus proving that the plates are not in part interaxil- 

 laries; but what are they? We doubt if they are calyx inter- 

 radials; the fact that there are four plates is certainly a very 

 serious objection. By dividing the plates among the five inter- 

 radii, some of the pieces would be distributed among different 

 areas. Another interpretation seems to us more probable, and 

 offers at t he same time an explanation of the plates in the third ring. 



The proximals and the oral plate, in all Palaeocrinoids with 

 nearly central anal tube, are pushed to the anterior side, and the 

 oral plat i- and the two smaller proximals constitute actually a part 

 of the tube of which the four larger proximals form the base. We 

 think the ease is very similar in Eucalyptocrinus, but here, owing 

 to the strictly central position of the anal tube, not only one of 

 the proximals, but also the oral plate is penetrated by the anal 

 passage, and divided into two parts. This, if correct, suggests 

 thai in Eucalyptocrinus the four plates of the second ring repre- 

 sent the four large proximals, a view which seems to be confirmed 

 by the peculiar arrangement of the plates in the third ring, in 

 which we consider that the two smaller ones represent the two 

 smaller proximals, while the two larger pieces, which rest upon 

 all plates of the second ring, are equivalent to the oral plate. 

 This would further suggest, that the ten plates in the fourth ring 

 :irr extravagantly developed anal plates. 



Geological position, etc. — Eucalyptocrinus is one of the leading 

 genera of the Upper Silurian, and it occurs in America and 

 Europe. A single species is known from the Devonian. 



The following species have been described: — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



(?) 1865. Eucalyptocr. chicagoensis Winch. & Marcy. Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. i, No. 1, ]). 90. — Niagara gr., Chicago, 111. (Described from casts. 

 1-4.:. E. coelatus Hall (Hypanthocrinus coelatus . Geol. 4th Distr. X. V., p. 113, 

 tig. 1.— F. Roemer, L855, Leth. Geogn. (Aug. 3), p. 260. E. coelatus 

 1852. Hall. Palaeont., N. Y., p. 210, PI. 47. tigs. 4«-c; F. Roemer, 1868, 

 Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 48, PL 4, &g. 3; Hall, 1865, Trans. Alb. 

 Inst. (Abstr., p. 32); also 20th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., pp. 

 321-329 (Revised Edit., pp. 363-366); 28th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. 

 Hist., p. 142, PI. 16, figs. 1-10, and PI. 19, figs. L-3; also 11th Ann. 

 • icil. Rep. Indiana, p. 274, with plates, — Niagara gr. Loekport, X. Y. 



(?) 1S64. E. cornutus Hall. New or little known Foss. Niagara gr., p. 18; also 1865, 

 18th Rep. N.Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. .".22, PI. 11, figs. 8-10.— Niagara 

 gr. Waukesha and Racine, Wise. (Described from casts, i 

 Var. excavatus Hall. 1864. New or little known Foss. Niagr. gr., p. 18; 

 also 18th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 322, PI. 11, figs. 8-10.— 

 Niagara gr. Racine, Wise. 

 1879. E. constrictus Hall. Trans. Alb. Inst., vol. x (Abstr., p. 10); also 11th Ann. 



Geol. Rep. Indiana, p. 273, PI. 15, fig. 1. — -Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 

 1S63. E. crassus Hall. Trans. Alb. Inst., vol. iv, p. 197 ; 18th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 323, PL 11, figs. 2, 3 (Revised Edit., p. 365): also 28th 

 Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 141, and PI. 17. figs. 1-11, and PI. 

 18, figs. 1-9; also PI. 19, figs. 2, 4, 5 ; Eleventh Ann. Rep. Indiana, 1851, 

 p. 27, PI. 17, figs. 1-11, and PI. 18, figs. 1-9; Geol. Surv. Ohio, Paleont., 

 ii, p. 129, PI. 6, fig. 11 (Green Co., O.). — Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 



1839. E. decorus Phill. (Hypanthocr. decorus) Murch. Silur. Syst. p. 672, PI. 17, 

 fig. 3 ; also Hall, 1843, Geol. 4th Dist. N. Y., p. 113, figs. 2-3. Eucalyp- 

 tocr. decorus Hall, 1852, Paleont, N. Y., vol. ii, p. 207, PI. 47, figs. 1-3 ; 

 and PI. 85, fig. 7 ; also McCoy, Synops. Brit. Palaeoz. Foss, p. 58 ; also F. 

 Roemer Leth. Geogn., 1855 (Aug. 3, p. 259); Dujardin and Hupe, 1862, 

 Hist, natur. des Zooph. Echinod., p. 116. — Rochester and Loekport, N. Y., 

 and Dudley, Engl. (?) 

 1878. E, decoratus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 17, PI. 5, figs. 4, 4 a. — Upper 

 Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



(?) 1880. E. depressus S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (October), PI. 7, 

 figs. 1, 1 a. — Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. (Described from a cast.) 



(?) 1880. E. Egani S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. iii, PI. 4, fig. 1. 

 — Niagara gr. Chicago, III. (Described from easts.) 

 1878. E. excellentissimus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec., p. 16, PI. 24, fig. 15. — 



Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1847. E. granulatus (Lewis i Morris (Hypanthocr. granulatus). London Geol. 

 Journ., Part 3, p. 99, PI. 21, figs. I 5 ; also Angelin, Icouogr. Crin. Suec, 

 1878, p. 18, PI. 6, figs. 3, 4; also PI. 24, figs. 10-12; and PI. 29, figs. 69, 

 70-74. — Upper Silurian. Walsall, Engl., and Gothland, Sweden. 

 1875. E. magnus Worthen. Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. vi, p. 501, PI. 25, fig. 3.— Ni- 

 agara gr. Wayne Co., Tenn. 



*1878. E. minor Angelin (Hypanthocr. minor). Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 17, PI. 6, 

 fig. 1: also pi. 21, tigs. 9-13. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



(?) 1864. E. obconicus Hall. New or little known Foss. Niagr. gr., p. 19 ; also ]sG5, 

 18th Rep. N. Y. State Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 323, PI. 11, fig. 1.— Niagara gr. 

 Racine, Wise. (Described from internal casts.) 




35H PBOOEEDING8 OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



L861. E. ornatus Sail. Rep. of Progress of Geol. Surv. Wise., |>. 20. — Niagara 

 gr. Raoine, w is< Described from internal casts.) 



is. ,n. E. ovalis Troost. Proo. A. A. A. Sci., p. 60; Hall, 1876. 



(E. ovatus Ball. Not Angelin, was printed in place of E. ovalis.) Doc. 

 Edit., IMS. p. 1 ■(:;. PI. 17, tigs. 12, 13; also 11th Ann. Geol. Rep. Indiana, 

 with plates. — Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 



1878. E. ovatus Ingelin. Iconogr. Crin. Snec., p. 17, PI. 5, tigs. 1, 2. — Upper Si- 

 lurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1852, E. papulosus Hall. Paleont. Rep. N. Fork, vol. ii, p. 211, PL 47, tigs. 5 a, b; 

 also P. Roemer, Leth. Geogn., 1855 (Aug. 3, p. 260). — Niagara gr. Mon- 

 roe Co., N. Y. 



I "7 s . E. plebejus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 17, PI. 5, tig. 7. — Upper Silu- 

 rian. ( inthland, Sweden. 

 1882. E. proboscidalis S. A. Miller. Cincin. Jour. Nat. Hist. (December), p. 224. 

 — Niagara gr. Pontiac, 0. (Described from internal casts.) 



I860. E. ramifer Roemer. Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 51., PI. 4, fig. I. — Niagara 

 gr. Decatur Co., Tenn. 



l s :!7. E. regularis (Hisinger), Actinocr. regularis. Lethaea Snec. (Suppl. 2), p. 

 6, PI. 39, tig. 0.— Hypanthocr. regularis Angelin, 1878, [conogr. Crin. 

 Suec, p. 17, PI. 6, fig. 2; and PI. 24, figs. Ll-20; and PI. 29, tigs. :!5-64. 

 Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. E. rigens Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 17, PI. 9, tig. J.'.; and PI. 24, figs. 

 16-19-21 : and PI. 29, tig.-. 30, : J .l.— Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1826. E. rosaceus Goldf. (Type of the genus). Petref. German, i, p. 214, PI. 64, fig. 

 7: also Nov. Acta Leop. xix. p. 335, PI. :!0, tig. 6. Agassi/., L835, Mem. 

 des Sci. natur. de Neuchat. i, p. 197 ; also F. Roemer, Rhein. Nehor- 

 gangsgeb., p. 64. De Koninck and Lehon, Crinoid. Carb. Belg., p. 7:;: 

 also Roemer, Leth. Geogn., 1855 (Aug. 3), p. 259, PI. 4, ligs. 20 a-c, and 

 PI. 4, figs. 11 a-c Dujardin and Dup6, 1862, Hist, natur. des. Zooph. 

 Echinod., p. 116; Bronn, Klassen d. Thierreichs (Actinozoa), PI. 27, fig. 

 2 : Picte"t, 1857, Traitg de Palgont. iv, PI. c, fig. 1; Schultze, 1866, Mon- 

 <>gr. Ecbin. Eifler Kalk., p. 90, PI. 11, figs. 1- 14.— Lower Devonian. Eifel, 

 Germany. 



' 1882. E. rotundus S. A. Miller. Cincin. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. v (July), PI. :i, 

 tig. 4. — Niagara gr. Chicago, 111. (Deseribed from easts.) 



ls; s . E. speciosus Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 16, PI. 5, tig. ::. and PI. 29, figs. 

 27-29 and 32-34.— Upper Silur. Gothland. Sweden. 



Is;;. E. splendidus (Troosl ) Hall. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Paleont. ii. p. 12s, 1'l.ti. fig. 12. 

 Niagara gr. Springfield, 0. 



' L878. E. tuberculatus Miller and Dyer, Journ. Cincin. Soo. Nat. Hist. (April), PL 

 2, tigs. 9, 9a. — Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. — Evidently a mere variety of 

 E. coelatus Hall. 

 i?) 1882. E. turbinatus S. \. Miller, Cincin. Journ. Nat. Hist., vol. v (.Inly), PI. 

 \ 5. — Niagara gr. Chicago, III. — Described from internal oasts. 



Note. — Eucalyptocrinus polydactylus McCoy, is a Corymborrin>/8, and 

 E. armo8us McChesney is too imperfectly known for identification. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 357 



CALLICRINUS D'Orbigny. 



1850. D'Orbigny {Calliocrinus), Prodr. i, p. 45. 



1878. Angelin (OaUicrmvs), Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 14. 



1879. Zittel (Callicrinus), Handb. d. Paleont. i, p. 378. 



Syn. Eugeniacrinites Hisinger (not Miller), 1857, Leth. Suec, p. 86. 



Callicrinus {Calliocrinus d'Orbigny) may be considered as a 

 transition form between C or ymbocrinus of the Actinocrinidse and 

 Eucalyptocrinus. It possesses the structural peculiarities of the 

 latter, but these are not so distinctly expressed, and it appears 

 as if the genus represented an earlier phase in the development 

 of this family. In both genera, the dorsal and ventral side is 

 composed of plates of a similar kind and like number, and both 

 have partitions ventrally ; but, while those of Eucalyptocrinus 

 surround the arms on all sides, the partitions of Callicrinus are 

 rudimentary, the greater part of the arms being uninclosed. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx as in Eucalyptocrinus, extending to 

 the tips of arms, resembling a wine bottle with long, slender neck, 

 and deep concavity at the bottom, but the partition walls, in place 

 of forming deep niches, consist only of braces between the arm 

 bases, projecting out between the lower portions of the arms ; not 

 extending in height beyond the limits of the first ring of plates. 

 Anus central. The plates are frequentby ornamented, sometimes 

 nodose, and certain plates spiniferous. 



Form of calyx, number and arrangement of plates as in Euca- 

 lyptocrinus. Dorsal cup composed of four basals ; 3 >< 5 primary, 

 2X2X5 secondary, and 1X2X10 tertiary radials ; always 3X5 

 interradials and one interaxillary. Ventral side composed of four 

 rings of plates ; the first ring containing five interradials, five 

 interaxillaries, and ten interbrachial pieces. The interbrachials, 

 as a rule, are somewhat larger than those of Eucalyptocrinus, and 

 they are provided, like the interradials and interaxillaries, with a 

 projecting brace, but less prominent than those of the other 

 plates. The latter are always stronger, and sometimes extended 

 into a long spine. The twenty braces or partition walls are 

 arranged parallel to each other, and vertically along the median 

 part of the plates. The second ring, if our interpretation is cor- 

 rect, consists of the four large proximals (compare our remarks 

 in Eucalyptocrinus) ; the third ring of the divided oral or central 

 plate and the two smaller proximals, which agree in their form 

 and arrangement with those in Eucalyptocrinus. The plates of 




3f>8 I'KoCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



the fourth ring, which form the upper part of the neck, are 

 generally composed of four plates, forming a tubular cavity, which 



is covered by small pieces surrounding the anal opening. There 

 are no Lateral extensions along these plates, but the upper end is 

 frequently provided with a thickened rim, sometimes, however, 

 extended into long spines, which are spread out horizontally. 



Arms twenty, not extending beyond the top of the tubular 

 neck; they are composed of two series of interlocking pieces, 

 and are provided with long pinnules, composed of six or more 

 elongate joints. The arms rest within the niches formed by the 

 braces, the greater portion of them remaining free. 



Column round, composed of rather long joints with a medium- 

 sized, apparently circular canal. 



Geological Position, etc. — Gallicrinus has been recognized only 

 from the Upper Silurian of Sweden ; it is possible, however, that 

 some of the casts described from the Niagara group of Wisconsin 

 represent this genus. 



1878. Callicrinus beyrichianus Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 15, PI. 2, fig. 6. — 

 Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



L837. C. costatus (Hisinger), Eugeniacrinites i ?) rostatus, Lethaea Suec., p. 90, PI. 30, 

 fig. 1 4 a I) ; D'Orbigny, 1850, Calliocrinus costatus ( Type of the genus), Pro- 

 drome i, p. 45; Angelin, 1878, Callicrinus costatus, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, 

 p. 15, PI. 1, fig. 6, and PI. 2, figs. 1-4: PI. 21, figs. 4, 5; also PI. 24, figs. 23- 

 26 ; PI. 28, figs. 19-22 and 24, 25; also PI. 29, figs. 1-26 and 65-68.— Upper 

 Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. C. diadema Angelin, [conogr. Crin. Suec, p. 16, PI. 28, figs. 27, 27 a.— Upper 

 Silurian, (iuthland, Sweden. 



1878. C. koninckianus Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 15, PI. 1, figs. 4, 4 a, and PI. 

 28, figs. 18-26.— Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. C. minor Angelin, [conogr. Crin. Suec, p. 16, PI. 25, tig. 15. — Upper Silurian. 

 i lothland, Sweden. 



1878. C. murchisouiauus Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 15, PI. 1, fig. :;, and PI, 

 2S, lij^s. 11-17. — Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



L878. C. rcbmerianus Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 15, PI. 1. figs. 1,2, and PI. 

 28, fig. 23.— Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. C. sedgwickianus Angelin, [conogr. Crin. Suec., \>. 15, PI. 1, fig. 5. — Upper 

 nrian. ( rOthland, Sweden. 




1885.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



CORRECTIONS. 



On p. 252 ( Ex. Ed., p. 30), 2d line from bottom, read : "wholly or partly" 

 before the word "ventrally." 



On p. 268 (Ex. Ed., p. 40), 10th line from top, we stated that Prof. Zittel 

 had been the next writer after Prof. Allman, who acknowledged the presence 

 of orals in Ilaplocrinus, Coccocrinus, and the Cyathocrinidse ; we discovered 

 however since that Dr. Carpenter already alludes to them in his paper of 

 April, 1879, while Prof. ZitteFs Handbuch der Palaeontologie appeared in 

 January, 1880. 



On p. 275 (Ex. Ed., p. 53), 9th line from top, read : " peristomeal area" 

 in place of "tentacular vestibule." 



On p. 280 (Ex. Ed., p. 58), 2d line from bottom, after the woid Allagecrinus 

 insert the following: "in which the whole ventral side were constructed of 

 actinal plates." 1 



On p. 281 (Ex. Ed., p. 59), 13th line from bottom, read: "the latter are 

 rarely perforated" in place of "not perforated." 



On p. 284 (Ex. Ed., p. 62), 16th line from bottom, in place of "and that 

 these C'rinoids possessed an orocentral nervous system like all other 

 Echinoderms, except the JSTeocrinoidea, in which the nervous system, as 

 now generally admitted, is connected with the chambered organ within the 

 basal cavity," insert the following: ''and that perhaps in these C'rinoids, 

 contrary to others, and to the Ncocrinoidea generally, the entire nervous system 

 was located at the oral side, in conformity with other Echinoderms." 



On p. 293 (Ex. Ed., p. 71 ), 4th line from bottom, in place of "were covered" 

 read : "were succeeded." 



On p. 294 (Ex. Ed., p. 72), at the top of page, we expressed our surprise 

 that Dr. P. H. Carpenter admitted calyx interradials in Apioerinus roissyanus 

 and not in A. Meriani, A. Rathieri and A. murchisonianus. On pp. 149-151, 

 and also on p. 183 in the Challenger Report, and wherever Dr. Carpenter 

 speaks of calyx interradials in Neocrinoidea, he refers to the genera 

 Quettardicrinus, Uintarvinus and to Apioerinus roissyanus, without men- 

 tioning the three other well-known species, in which plates are distributed 

 interradially likewise, and in a similar manner. All this led us to the 

 conclusion that he regarded the plate.-, of the latter species as wholly 

 perisomic. Dr. Carpenter informed us since that he never I eld such view, 

 and that he regards the plates in question in all four species as representing 

 substantially the same thing. It must be, further stated that Dr. Carpenter 

 admits in A. roissyanus as calyx interradials the whole series of plates up 

 to the top of the second radials, and not only the first plate, as we thought 

 to infer from his figure on p. 1">0. and from his descriptions. "We are 

 pleased to make this correction, at the same time we are at a loss to know 

 where the small plates commence to which the letter i alludes, and which, 

 as stated by Carpenter himself (Challenger Rep., p. 150\ "pass gradually 

 upwards into those of the ventral side." 




3K0 PROCREPINGS^OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



I'h, following letU ra art employed throughout all the plates. 



a azygous plates. 

 b basals. 



br = brachials. 



e = column, and sections of the column. 

 <■'/ centrodorsal. 

 cr = compound radial. 



d = interaxillaries. 



e = covering plates (Saumpliittchen). 



h = nou-arm-bearing radials. 



i — interradials (dorsally and ventrally). 



o = oral plate or plates. 



p proxiinals. 



r = radials in the calyx and summit. 



r 1 = first radial. 



r 2 = second radial. 



t = plate of the ventral tube. 



u = underbasals. 

 wp = water-pore. 



I anal plates. 

 .10 = anal opening. 



rr - posterior radials enclosed in the ring of proximals. 



J= interradially. 

 ZZ azygous interradius. 



The diagrams on Plate 6 are designed to show the position of basals 

 and underbasals to the different parts of the column ; those of Plates 7 

 and 8. to show the relation of the summit-plates with each other and with 

 adjoining plates. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. 



Fig. 1. Cupressocrinus abbreviatus Goldfuss, showing the consolidated 

 muscle-plates, the axial canals, arm openings, and the position of the 

 anal aperture. 



Fig. 2. Ventral aspect of Cyathocrinus Gilesi. The interradials crowned 

 by mliercles, and resting against the incurved ends of the radials. 



FlO. 3. similar view of another specimen, showing the interradials in the 

 same position, but partly covered by perisomic plates, which connect 

 with the outer edges of the incurved ends of the radials. 



Fig. 4. Impression "t the ventral side of a specimen of Teleiocrinus. The 

 radiating ridges represent paired canals along the inner floor of the 

 test. The original is in the collection of Mr. R. R. Rowley. 



Fig. 5. Ventral side of D»rycrinue Missouriensis. The ambulacral tubes 

 are exposed only close to the arm-bases, disappearing toward the centre 

 beneath the infiltrating material. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 361 



Fig. 6. Cyathocrinuxmultibrachiatus. Ventral surface showing the perisomic 

 plates, portions of the interradials, and the summit plates, the latter in 

 process of resorption. 



Fig. 7 a. A portion of an arm of the same species. Side plates and cover- 

 ing pieces in position (enlarged). 



Fig. 7 6. A portion of the same specimen still more enlarged. 



Fig. 8. Portion of an arm of Symbathocrinus dentatus, showing the ventral 

 furrow and its covering. 



Fig. 9. Ventral aspect of Symbathocrinus Wortheni after removing the 

 upper half of the first brachials. 



Fig. 10. Showing the inner floor of the summit plates in Symbathocrinus 

 Wortheni. Seen from below, in a transverse section through the first 

 brachials. 



Fig. 11. Cross section of arms and ventral tube at a point midway between 

 the base and tips of the arms, from the same specimen. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. 



Fig. 1. Raplocrinus mespiliformis Goldfuss. Ventral aspect, showing the 



interradials and anal opening. 

 Fig. 2. Posterior view of the same specimen. 

 Fig. 3. Distal face of the bifurcating primary radial of Forbesiocrinu* 



nobilis, showing its two axial canals. 

 Fig. 4. Proximal face of the same. 



Fig. 5. Lateral face of an interradial of the same species. 

 Fig. 6. Ventral aspect of an internal cast of Batocrinus Christyi. The 



dark places represent the pillars suspending the perisome, and the 



radial ridges the subtegminal ambulacral tubes. 

 Fig. 7. Ventral aspect of Cyathocrinus iovensis. All summit plates bisected 



or partly resorbed. 

 Fig. 8. Internal view of the central part of the vault, showing a portion ol 



the perisome, and the peristomeal area beneath the centre of the oral 



plate, whose sutures are visible in the deeply shaded portion. The 



figure does not show the specimen as far as the arm bases. 

 F \g. 9. Ventral aspect of an internal cast of Platycrinus. The interradials 



forming a continuous ring around the proximals, surmounting the 



covering plates, which emerge from beneath the vault close to the arm 



bases. 

 Fig. 10. Bclemnocrinvs typus "White. Side view of a perfect specimen, 



showing the porous ventral tube and the arrangement of arms and 



pinnules. 

 Fig. 11. Belemnocrinus floriftr W. & Sp. Side view of type specimen, 



showing the arrangement of arms and pinnules ; the ventral tube, and 



the position of the cirrhi. 

 Fig. 12. Symbathocrinus Wachsmuthi M. & W. Ventral aspect, showing 



the arrangement of the summit pieces and the anal plate. 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Pig. 18. Bide view of the same specimen, showing the proximals and 

 the radial-dome-plates which alternate with small interradials and 

 gether \\ itli the former plates rest against the muscle-plates. 



i'ii.. 1 I. Side view of another specimen, showing the summit plates, inter- 

 radials, portions of the arms and id' the anal tube. 



Fig. 15. Catillocrinus WachtmutM M. & W. A nearly perfect specimen 

 with arms, showing the small anterior and one of the large antero- 

 lateral radials. 



Fig. 15ff. View of the broken upper end of the same specimen, gving a 

 transverse section of arms and ventral tube. 



Fig. 16. Side view of another specimen, showing the dorsal side of the 

 large plates composing the anal tube. 



Fig. 17. Underbasal disk of Agassizocrinus. Ventral view, showing the 

 ramifying furrows toward the basals, and the six pits within the inner 

 cavity. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VL 



A series of diagrams, showing the position of the lateral cirrhi, that of 

 the axial canals and outer angles of the stem, in monocyclic and dicyelic 

 Crinoids. For better comparison, the upper side is in all these figures 

 interradial, and represents in most cases the azygous side. 



1. Abactinal aspect of Xenocrinus. 



Base of Reteocrinus. 



Calyx plates of Talarocrinus. 



Calyx plates of Atelestocrinus robustus. 



Calyx plates of Tribrachiocrinus. 



Base of Rhodocrinus. 



Calyx plates of Carabocrinus. 



Abactinal aspect of Millerocrinus Milleri.- After De Loriol. 



\ bactinal aspect of Zeacrinus nodosus. 

 Fig. 10. Inner view of the calyx o£ Millerocrinus Milleri, showing the posi- 

 tion of the axial canals. After De Loriol. 

 In.. 11. Abactinal aspeel of the laiva of Antedon rosacea, shortly before 



the detachmenl from the stem. After Dr. W. B. Carpenter. 

 Fig. 12. Base of Heterocrinus and Stenocrinus, the column removed. 

 Km;. 18. Basals of Stenocrinus, with a joint of the quinque-partite column. 

 PlG. 11. Basals ,,r //, terocrinus, \\ it li a joint of the tri-partite column. 

 FlG. 1"». 1 la sals o( Barycrinus, with the joint of thequ'nque-partite column. 

 Fio. if,. [Jnderbasals and lirst stem-joint of Poteriocrinus. 

 Fig. IT. Basals and firs! stem-joinl of Glyptocrinus. 

 Fig. 18. Basals and the i ri- partite upper part of the stem in Forbesiocrinus, 



Onychocrinus and Taxocrinus. (The underbasals are covered.) 

 l'io. 19. Basals and column of Actinocrinus, Batocrinus, etc. 

 Fig. 20. Basals and colums of Mnjistocrinus Evansii. 

 PlG. 21. Basals and column of Dolatocrinus. 

 Fig. 22. Basals of Eucalyptocrinus and Melocrinus. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



Fig. 23. Inner aspect of the calyx of Ichthyocrinus burlingtonensis, show- 

 ing the position of the small nnderbasal. 



Fig. 24. Basals of Pentremites, Bhowing the position of the smaller plate. 



Fig. 25. Basals of Platycrinus, showing the same thing. 



Fig. 26. Basals of Symbathocrinus, showing the same. 



Fig. 27. Column of Poteriocrinus and Cyathocrinus Rarrisi, with radial 

 cirrhi. 



Fig. 28. Column of Belemnocrinus florifer with interradial cirrhi. 



Fig. 29. Column of Cupressocrinus, showing the position of the peripheral 

 canals 



Fig. 30. Column of Ptntacrinus with radial cirrhi. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII. 



These diagrams are designed to show the relation of the summit plates 

 with each other, and with adjoining plates : — 



Fig. 1. Diagram of the pLites in the early larva of Antedon rosacea. After 



Dr. P. H. Carpenter. 

 Fig. 2. Summit plates of Dorycrinus mississippiensis. 

 Fig. 3. Ventral aspect of Eretmocrinus coronatus. 

 Fig. 4. Summit plates of Amphoracrinus spinobrachiatus. 

 Fig. 5. Vential aspect of Platycrinus glyptus. 

 Fig. 6. The same of Platycrinus subspinosus. 

 Fig. 7. The same of Platycrinus Halli. 

 Fig. 8. The same of Platycrinus tuberosus. 

 Fig. 9. The same of Agaricocrinus Wortheni. 

 Fig. 10. The same of a large specimen of Agaricocrinus americanus. The 



dorsal interradials are attached ou three sides. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. 



Fig. 1. Internal cast of Strotoerinus regalis, showing the impression of the 

 radiating canals along the inner floor of the vault, and the presence of 

 three summit radials between each proximal. 



Fig. 2. Internal cast of Actinocrinus rhultiradiatvs, showing the same as 

 fig. 1, however, with two summit radials anteriorly and three poste- 

 riorly. (The pentapartite protuberance along the oral plate is too 

 prominent in the figure). 



Fig. 3. Internal cast of a specimen of Teleiocrinus, showing the same as 

 fig. 1. 



Fig. 4. Ventral aspect of Steganocrinus concinnus. 



Fig. 5. Ventral aspect of Meghtocrinus Evansii. 



Fig. 6. Ventral aspect of Platycrinus burlingtonensis. 



Fig. 7. Ventral aspect of Marsupiocrinus Tennessee. 



Fig. 8. Ventral aspect of Batocrinus subwqualis. 




364 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE IX. 



Pig. 1. Diagram of the calyx plates of Acrocrinus Wortheni. 



Fig. 2. Interior view of Glyptocrinux ramulosus. The specimen is broken 

 in halves, exposing the inner surface of the test, and it shows the con- 

 tinuity of the interradials from the dorsal to the ventral side, the pres- 

 ence of galleries lodging the ambulacra, and the absence of covering 

 pieces in the test ; also the apparent existence of a calcareous perisome, 

 supported by pillars as in the Actinoerinidae. — From a specimen in the 

 Canada Survey Museum. 



Fig. 3. Side view of Zeacrinus nodosus. 



Fig. 4. Sde view of Atelestocrinus robustus. 



Fig. 5. Doi sal aspect of Cleiocrinus regius. After a drawing by Mr. Walter 

 R. Billings from type specimen. Basals and underbasals indicated by 

 di itted lines. 



Fig. 6. Side view of Platycrinus burlingtonensis. 



Fig. 7. Side view of Stemmatocrinus Traulscholdi. 



FlG. 8. Internal view of the same. S. Face for the attachment of the in- 

 terradials. 




1885.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 365 



August 4. 

 Mr. Charles Morris in the, chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



Note on Quercus prinoides Willd. — Mr. Meehan exhibited a 

 series of fruiting specimens of branches of Quercus prinoides. In 

 some, the leaves were almost orbicular and obtuse ; in others nar- 

 rowly lanceolate or saliciform and acute ; others had lobed and 

 wavy edges, while others were quite entire. The plants were all 

 growing within a few feet of .each other, and the parent plants 

 were also all under the same conditions of environment, and were 

 at no distant date from one parentage. 



They were exhibited for two purposes — first, to show that 

 environment, as commonly understood, was not a main factor 

 in the origination of variation ; and secondly, to show that vari- 

 ation was independent of mere conditions of growth or sexual 

 peculiarities to which variation was sometimes referred. It 

 was, indeed, true, that young plants often had leaves varying 

 from those on the older plants, and plants or branches bearing 

 flowers of one sex would have characters varying from those of 

 another sex ; but these specimens were all fertile, and with young 

 acorns. There was no possible ground for any suggestion as to 

 different conditions in any sense, and the variations could be only 

 attributed to an innate and wholly unknown power to vary, which 

 science had so far been unable to reach. 



August 11. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



On the Fruit of Opuntia. — Mr. Thomas Meehan exhibited a 

 series of specimens of an unknown species of Opuntia closely 

 allied to 0. Brasiliensis, showing a gradual change from the 

 joint or frond to the fruit. In one case there was the thin orbic- 

 ular frond; then a frond with a slight rounding and tapering 

 at the base; then one somewhat resembling a fruit, but v«t\ 

 much compressed, and with an abortive flower-bud leaving a scar 

 at the apex ; then another, but very much elongated and rtuted, 

 and with a perfect flower, though small ; and, lastly, the frond 

 reduced to an inch in length, pyriform, and with the perfect, 

 large yellow flower. He remarked that it could not be called 

 a novel point to make that the fruit of a cactus was simply a 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



metamorphosed frond, <>r joint as the section is commonly 

 called, and that the petals were the usually (in the frond) very 

 much suppressed leaves; but it might serve a good purpose to 



place on rerun! this excellent illustration of the fact. 



August 18. 

 Mr. Charles Roberts in the chair. 

 Fifteen persons present. 



A paper entitled U A Review of the Species of the Genus 

 Esox," by Seth E. Meek and Robei't Newland, was presented for 

 publication. 



The following deaths were announced : — 



Moro Phillips, a member, August 9, 1885. 



Mud. Wm. D unker, a correspondent, March 13, 1885. 



September 1. 

 Mr. Thos. A. Robinson in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 36t 



A REVIEW OF THE SPECIES OF THE GENUS ESOX. 

 BY SETH E. MEEK AND ROBERT NEWLAND. 



In the present paper is given the synonymy of the species of 

 the genns Esox, with an analytical key b} - which the species can 

 be determined. The specimens which we have studied belong to 

 the Indiana University. 



We acknowledge our indebtedness to Professor Jordan, for the 

 use of his library and for other aids. 



Genus ESOX. 

 Esox Artedi, Genera 14, 1 738 (includes the modern genera Esox, Belone and 



Lepidoshus). 

 Esox, Linnaeus, Systenia Natiuae, 1758, 314 {lucius, etc.). 

 Lucius, 1 Rafinesque Idice d'lttiol. Sicil, 1810 {lucius). 

 Picorellus, Rafinesque, Ichthiol. Ohioensis, 1820, 70 (vittatus) salmoneus 



(subgenus). 

 Mascalongus, Jordan, Klippart's Second Rept. Ohio Fish Comin., 1878, 92 



(nobilior-masquinongy) (subgenus) . 



Analysis of Species of Esox. 

 a. Cheeks and opercles entirely scaly. 



b. Bi-anchiostegals normally 12 (11 to 13) ; scales in the lateral 



line 105 to 108; D. 11 or 12 ; A. 11 or 12 ; middle of eye 



nearer tip of lower jaw than posterior margin of opercle. 



c. Head short, 3| in length of body ; snout 2| in length of 



head ; e}'e 2f in length of snout. Color dark green ; 



sides with about twenty distinct blackish curved bars; 



fins plain. Americanus. 1. 



cc. Head longer, 3^ in length of bod}' ; snout 2^ in length 



of head ; eye 2^ in length of snout. Color greenish, 



sides with many narrow curved darker streaks, 



usually distinct and more or less reticulated ; fins 



mostl}' plain. Vermiculatus. 2. 



1 The name Esox is in this paper restricted to Esox belone L., the type of 

 the genus Belone Cuvier, while the name Lucius is reserved I'or the pikes. 

 The name Esox lias been universally associated with the Pikes rather than 

 with the Gar-fishes, 1 ml perhaps in strict technicality, the name Lucius 

 should be used for the former and that of Esox lor the latter. It is perhaps 

 not unfair, however, to assume that Linnaeus would have considered the 

 Pike, rather than the Gar-fish, as typical of his genus Esox. 




368 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



66. Branchiostegals 14 to 16; D. 14; A. 13; scales in lateral 

 line about 125 ; middle of eye midwa}^ between tip of 

 lower jaw and posterior margin of opercle ; head about 3^ 

 in length of body ; snout 2^ in head ; eye 3^ in snout. 

 Color greenish, marked with numerous narrow dark lines 

 and streaks which are mostly horizontal, and are more or 

 less reticulated ; fins plain. Reticulatus. 3. 



aa. Cheeks scaly ; lower half of opercle bare ; branchiostegals 14 

 to 16 ; D. 16 or 17 ; A. 13 or 14 ; scales in lateral line 123 ; 

 head 3.' { - in length of body ; snout 2| in length of head ; eye 

 3 in length of snout : middle of eye midwaj' between tip of 

 lower jaw and posterior margin of opercle. Color grayish 

 with many whitish spots, the young barred; dorsal, anal, 

 and caudal fins spotted with black ; a white horizontal bar 

 bounding the naked portion of opercle. Lucius. 4. 



nna. Cheeks as well as opercles bare on lower half; branchioste- 

 gals 17 to 19 ; D. 17 ; A. 15 ; scales in the lateral line about 

 150 ; middle of eye midway between tip of lower jaw and 

 posterior margin of opercle ; head 3| in length of body ; 

 snout 2* in head; eye more than four times in length of 

 snout. Color dark gray, sides with round blackish spots ; 

 fins spotted with black. Masquinongy. 5. 



I . Esox americanus. 



Esox americanus Schoepf, ' ' Naturforscher, torn, xx, 1784, 26" (Long 

 Island). 



Esox lucvisil americanus Gmelin, Systema Naturae, 1788, 1390 (based 

 on Schoepf). 



Esox americanus Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., v, 1803, 299; Cuvier 

 and Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xviii, 184(1, 329 (Saratoga Lake), 

 Jordan, Annals N. T. Acad. Nat. Hist., vol. i, No. 4, 1877, 104 

 (Delaware River ; bong Island); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Ter., 

 iv, 1878, 132 ; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 285 (McBean creek, 

 Georgia) ; Goode and Bean, Bull. Essex Inst., vol. ix, 1879, 22 (•New- 

 ham Lake, Mass.); Bean, Bull. U. S. Fish Comm., 1880, 104 (Pier- 

 mont, N. V.: Trenton, N. J.; Long Island); .Jordan, Man. Vert. Ed. 

 iii, 1880, 26'J ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus.. 21, 1880, 32; Jordan 

 and Gilbeit, Syn. Fish, N. A.. L882, 352; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A. 

 50, 1885. 



Picbrellus americanus Jordan and Copeland, Bull. Buffalo Sue-. Nat. 

 Bci., 1876, 1 13 (<hcck List). 



Kxnx niij i r Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phila., 1817, 415 (South 

 Carolina ). 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 369 



Esox scomberius Mitchill, Arner. Monthly Mag., 1818, 322 (Murderer's 

 Creek, N. Y.); De Kay, X. Y. Fauna, Fish, 1842, 225 (copied). 



Esox fasciatus De Kay, X. Y. Fauna, Fish, 1842, 224, pi. 34, fig. 110 

 (Long Island). 



Esox ornatus Girard, "Proc. Bost. Soc. Xat. Hist., 1854, 41 " (Massa- 

 chusetts); Storer, Hist. Fish, Mass., 1867, 313 (Boston market). 



Esox ravenelii Holbrook, Ichthyol. S. C, 1855, 201 (South Carolina); 

 Cope, Proc. Acad, Xat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 79 (Catawba River); Cope, 

 Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1870, 457 (Catawba River); Giruther, Cat. 

 Fish, Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 230 (copied); Jordan, Annals X. Y. 

 Lyceum Xat. Hist., vol. x ; , 1877, 3C8 (Coosa R., Georgia); Jordan 

 & Brayton. Bull. U. S. Xat. Mus., xii, 1878, 16 (Catawba River); 

 Goode, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1879, 117. 



Picorellus ravenelii Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buffalo Soc. Xat. Sci., 



1875, 143 (Check list). 



Habitat. — Coastwise streams from the Charles River, Mass., to 

 the Savannah River, Georgia. 



The specimen examined by us is from the market. 



The synonymy of the species offers little room for question, 

 although some of the earlier descriptions are very scanty. 



2. Esox vermiculatus. 



Esox vermiculatus (Le Sueur MSS.) Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. 



Poiss., xviii, 1846, 233 (Wabash Valley); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 



U. S. Xat. Mus., 1884, 110 ; Forbes, 111. State Fish Comm., 1884, 71 



(Illinois); Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1884, £09 (East Fo:k of 



White River, Indiana); Gilbert, Pioc. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1884, 208 



(Switz City Swamp, Greene Co., Indiana) ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. X. A., 



50, 1835. 

 Esox lineatus (Le Sueur MSS.) Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Xat. 



Poiss., 1846, 335 (Wabash Valley, young). 

 Esox umbrosus Kiitland, " Cleveland Annals of Sciences, 1854, 79" 



(near Cleveland, Ohio); Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1835, 79; 



Cope, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc, 1866, 409 (Grosse Isle, Michigan); 



Hay, Bull. U. S. Xat. Mus., 1882, 67, 74 (Memphis; Jackson; 



Vaughans ; Granada). 

 ? Esox crassus Agassiz. Amer. Jour. Sci. & Arts, 1854, 308 (Tennessee 



River, at Huntsville, Alabama); Cope, Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila.. 



1865, 79 (copied); Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buffalo Soc Xat. Sci., 



1876, 143 (Check list). 



Esox cypho Cope, Proc Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 78 (Waterford, 

 Oakland Co., Michigan); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 

 230 (copied); Jordan Annals X. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. i, Xo. 4, 1877, 

 368 (Fox River, Illinois); Xelson, Bull. 111. Mus. Xat. Hist., i, 1877, 

 43 (Fox River at Geneva); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr., iv, 

 1878, 432; Jordan* Man. Vert. Ed., iii, 1880, 267. 

 25 




370 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Picorellu* cyplio Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buffalo Soc Nat. Sci., 1875, 

 143 (Check List). 



? Esox nujer Giiuther, Cat, Fish. Brit. Mus., vi, 1866. 229 (New Or- 

 leans), not of Le Sueur. 



Esox porosus Cope, Trans. Anier. Phil. Soc, 1866, 408 (Lake 

 Michigan). 



Esox salmoneus Jordan, Bull. Buffalo, Soc. Nat. Hist., 1876, 96. 



Esox salmoneus Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. i, No. 4, 1877, 

 104 (White River ; Ohio River ; Illinois River ; Wabash River ; Mau- 

 mee River; Lake Erie); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1877, 42; 

 Jordan Annals N. Y. Lyceum, vol. xi, 1877, 376 ( White River, In- 

 diana); Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1877, 44 (Lakes of 

 Laporte County, Indiana; St. Joseph's River, Indiana; Maumee 

 River, Indiana ; Tippecanoe River, Indiana); Nelson, Bull. 111. Mus. 

 Nat. Hist., i, 1877, 43 (Illinois); Jordan, Bull 111. Mus. Nat. Hist., 

 ii, 1878,53 ; (Illinois River at Pekin ; Fox River, Union County, 111.); 

 Jordan Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 352 ; Jordan Zoology of Ohio, vol. iv, 

 1882, 914 (not of Mitchill ; probably not of Rafmtsque). 



Picorellus salmoneus Jordan, Man. Vert. Ed., i, 1876; Jordan & Cope- 

 land, Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., 1876, 143 (Check List). 



Esox racenelii Jordan, Bull. 111. Mus. Nat. Hist., 1876, 53 (Union 

 County, Illinois) not of Holbrook). 



Habitat. — Mississippi Valley and Great Lake region, most 

 abundant in the central States. Not found east of the Allegheny 

 Mountains, nor in the Texan region. Frequenting sluggish 

 waters and bayous. 



The specimens examined by us are from Falls of Ohio ; Ohio 

 River, Southern Indiana ; Bean Blossom Creek, Monroe Co., In- 

 diana : Pipe Creek, Madison County, Indiana; Mecca, Parke 

 County, Indiana; Kankakee River at Riverside, Indiana, and 

 Hieksville, Defiance County, Ohio. 



This species lias the general coloration of E. reticulatus, with 

 its other characters, very close to those of E. americanus. From 

 the latter species it differs but slightly, but the greater length of 

 the snout, small as it is, seems to be very constant. 



The name Esox salmoneus, frequently applied to this species, 

 cannot be retained, as it was earlier given by Mitchill to Synodus 

 fifpteus. It is also probable that Rafinesque's original salmoneus 

 ie a mythical species, not identifiable with anything. In his copy 

 of the original drawing (in his MSS. note books i the insertion of 

 the dorsal is said to be represented as midway between the tip 

 of the snout and the base of the caudal. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 371 



•".. Esox reticulatus. 



Esox Indus Mitchffl, Trans. Hist. & Phil. Soc. N. Y., 1815, 440 (Long 

 Island). 



Esox reticulatus Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1818, 414, No. 

 2 (Philadelphia'; Storer, Rept. Fish. Mass., 1839; 97 (Maine ; Mas- 

 sachusetts); DeKay, N. T. Fauna Fish., 1842, 223 (New York); 

 Ayres, Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., iv, 1842, 269 (Brookhaven, Long 

 Island; Hockanum River, Conn.). 



Esox reticulatus Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xviii, 1846, 

 327 (Philadelphia; Charleston, S. C); St irer, 8yn. Fish. N. A., 1846, 

 437 ; Thompson, "Hist, of Vermont, 1846, 138" (Vermont); Griffiths 

 Cuvier. Regne Animal, 1854, 390 ; Cope, Pmc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1865, 79 ; Cope, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. Phila., 1866, 410 ; Gunther, 

 Cat. Fishes Brit. Mus., vi, 1866, 229 (Boston; New York); Storer, 

 Hist. Fish. Mass., 1867 (Maine ; Massachusetts); Jordan, Ohio State 

 Fish Comm., 1876, 186. 



Esox reticulatus Jordan, Annals N. Y. Acad. Sci., vol. i, No. 4, 1877, 

 104 (Westfield River ; Delaware River ; Ocmulgee River ; Etowah 

 River; Potomac River); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr., iv, 

 1878, 432 ; Jordan & Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, 1878, 40 

 (Etowah River); Jordan & Brayton, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xii, 1878, 

 16 ; Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 117 ; Goode & Bean, Bull. 

 Essex Institute, vol. ix, 1879, 22 (Massachusetts;; Goode, Bull. U. S. 

 Nat. Mus., xxi, 1880, 32 (East Wareham, Massachusetts): Bean, 

 Proc.U. S. Nat. Mus., 1880, 104 (Norfolk, Va.; South Hadley Falls, 

 Mass.); Jordan, Man.Veit., Ed. 3, 1880, 267; Hay, Bull. U.S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1882, 67, 74 (Big Black River, Mississippi ; Pearl River, Mis- 

 sissippi); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 353 ; Jordan, 

 Cat. Fish. N. A., 50, 1885. 



Pieorellus reticulatus Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buil'alo Soc. Nat. Hist., 

 1876, 143 (Check list). 



? Esox phaleratus (Say) Le Sueur, Jour. Sci. Phila., 1818, 416 (near 

 St. Augustine, Fla.); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna Fish, 1842, 226 (copied); 

 Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., xviii, 1846, 333 (copied). 



? Esox phaleratus Goode, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 117. 



Esox tridecem-Uneatus Mitchill, ? "Minor, 1825, 361" (Oneida Lake). 



Esox tridecem-radi'atus DeKay, N. Y. Fauna. Fish., 1842, 225 (copied). 



Esox affinis Holbrook, "Ichth. South Car., 1855, 198" (South Caro- 

 lina); Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 79 (Neuse River); 

 Cope, Proc. Amer. Phil. Soc, Phila., 1870, 457. 



Pieorellus affinis Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buffalo. Soc. Nat. Sci., 

 1876, 143 (Check List); Jordan, Man. Veit., 1876, Ed. i, 255. 



Esox reticulatus var. affinis Jordon Annals, N. Y. Lyceum Nat. Hist., 

 vol. xi, 1877, 369 (Etowah River, Georgia). 



Habitat. — Maine to Mississippi, chiefly or only in streams and 

 lakes east of the mountains. 




372 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885 



The specimens examined by us are from the Potomac and Dela- 

 ware Rivers. 



t. Esox lucius. 



Esox lucius* Linnaeus, Systema Natures, Ed. x, 1758, 314 (European 

 specimens). 



American References. 



? Esox lucius Richardson. "Fauna Bor. Amer. Fishes, iii, 1836, 124" 

 (Northern regions); De Kay, N. Y. Fauna. Fish., 1842, 226 

 (copied). 



Esox lucius Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 18C5, 79 ; Cope, Trans. 

 Amer. Phil. Soc. Phila., 1866, 408 (Great Lakes ; Lake Whittlesey, 

 Minnesota); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit, Mus., vi, 1866, 227 (Albany 

 River ; Lake ^Vhittlessey, Minnesota ; Arctic, N. A.); Jordan & Cope- 

 land, Bull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., 1876, 143 (Check List); Jordan, 

 ( >hio Stan- Fish. Comm., 1876, 186, fig. 16, pi. 11 ; Jordan, Bull. U. 

 S., Geol. Sur. Terr., iv, 1876, 797 (Turtle Mountain ; St. Mary's 

 River, Rocky Mountains); Jordan, Pioc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1877, 44 (St. Joseph's River, Indiana); Jordan Annals, N. Y. Acad. 

 Sci., vol. i, No. 4, 1877, 104, (Lake Ontario ; Lake Erie; Lake Michi- 

 gan ; Fox River. Illinois ; Mississippi River); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus.. x, 1877, 5.5 ; Jordan, Bull. U. S. Geol. Sur. Terr., 1878, 432. 



Esox lucius Jordan, Bull. 111. Mus. Nat. Hist., ii, 1878, 53 (Rock River, 

 111.); Jordan, Man. Vert. Ed. 3, 1880, 266; Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. 

 Mus., 1880, 104 (Sandusky, Ohio ; South Hadley Falls, Massachu- 

 setts); Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat, Mus., 21, 1880, 32 (Sandusky, Ohio); 

 Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 255, 268, 271 (Alaska ; Youkon 

 River); Jordan, Zoology of Ohio, iv, 1882, 915 ; Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. 

 Fish. N. A., 1882, 353; Forbes, 111. State Fish Coram., 1884, 71 

 Illinois) ; Jordan. Cat. Fish. N. A., 51, 1885. 



'.' Knox tittatus Rafinesque, American Monthly Mag., vol. iii, 1818, 447; 

 Kafinesque, Ichth. Oh., 1820, 70 (Mythical). 



Esox Estor Le Sueur, Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1818, 413 (Lake 

 Eric); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna Fish. 1842, 222; Cuvier & Valenciennes, 

 Hist, Nat. Poiss., xviii, 1S46, 324, pi. 542 (Lake Erie) ; Giinther, Cat. 

 I'ish. Brit. Mus., 1866, 228 (copied). 



Esox hirius var. istor Jordan, Man. Vert., 1876, 255 ; (Nelson, Bull. 111. 

 Mus. Nat. Hist., i, 1876, 43 (Northern Illinois); Jordan A Copeland, 

 Hull. Buffalo Soc. Nat. Sci., 1876, 43 , Cluck List). 



Esox reticulaUis Kirtland, "Zoology of Ohio, 1820, 194;" Kirtland, 

 "Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., 1843, 33, pi. 10, fig. 2'' (Lake Erie); (not of 

 Le Sueur). 



ft Esox salmoneus Rafines<|iir. Irhthiol. Ohiensis, 1820, 70 (Mythical). 



* The European synonymy of this species is very extensive, and we have 

 not attempted to collect it. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Esox deprandus (Le Sueur MSS.) Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. 

 Poiss., xviii, 1846, 330 (Wabash River at New Harmony, Indiana); 

 Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., I860, 79; Cope, Trans. Amer. 

 Phil. Soc. Phila., 1860, 408 I copied); Gtinther, Cat. Fi«h. Brit. Mus., 

 1866, 229 (copied); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 225 (Identi- 

 fication of Le Sueur's type). 



? Esox lugubrosus (Le Sueur MSS.) Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. 

 Poiss., xviii, 1840, 338 (Crab Orchard, Ky.; no description). 



Esox lucioides " Agassiz & Girard, " Herbert Frank Forester's Fish 

 and Fishing, 1849 (Lake Superior). 



Esox boreus Agassiz, " Lake Superior, 1850, 317" (Lake Superior ; same 

 as E. lucioides); Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1865, 79 ; Nelson, 

 Bull. 111. Mus. Nat. Hist, i, 1877, 43 (Northern Illinois). 



Habitat. — Streams and lakes of Europe ; Northern Asia, Alaska, 

 and Northeastern parts of North America ; South to New York 

 and Ohio River, and west to the Rocky Mountains. 



The specimens examined by us are from Venice, Lake Erie, 

 and Lake Michigan. 



We can see no difference whatever between American and 

 European examples of this species, when specimens of similar 

 size and condition are compared. The names Esox estor, depran- 

 dus, lucioides and boreus are therefore strictly synonymous with 

 E. lucius. 



5. Esox masquinongy. 



Esox masquinongy Mitchill, "Mirror, 1824, 297" (but the description 

 is said not to be there); Kirtland, Zoology of Ohio, 1838, 194 (Lake 

 Erie). 



Esox estor Richardson, "Fauna Bor. Amer., iii, 1836, 127" (Lake 

 Huron); Kirtland, Bost. Jour. Nat. Sci., 1842, 339 ; Agassiz, "Amer. 

 Jour. Sci. & Aits, xvi, 1853, 308" (not Esox estor, Le Sueur). 



Esox nobilior Thompson, "Proc Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., iii, 1850, 163, 

 173, 305" (Lake Champlain); Cope, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1865, 79 ; Cope, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. Phila., I860, 410 (Cone- 

 aught Lake, Pa.; Alleghany Riven; Jordan & Copeland, Bull. Buf- 

 falo Soc. Nat.' Sci., 1876, 143 (Check list); Jordan, Annals N. Y. 

 Acad. Sci., vol. i, No. 4, 1877, 104 (Lake Michigan; Lake Huron; 

 Lake Erie); Jordan, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1877, 54 (Ecorse, Michi- 

 gan ; Lake Huron); Nelson, Bull. 111. Mus. Nat. Hist., i, 1877, 43 

 (Lake Michigan); Jordan, Man. Vert., Ed. ii, 1878, 266; Jordan, 

 Bull. 111. Mus. Nat. Hist., 1878, 53 (Lake Michigan); Goode, Bull. 

 U. S. Nat. Mus., xiv, 1879, 55 ; Goode, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., xxi, 

 1880, 32 (Sandusky, Ohio ; Jordan, Man. Vert., Ed. iii, 1883, 266; 

 Bean, Bull. U. S. Fish Coram., 1880, 104 (Sandusky, Ohio); Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. 1880, 104 (Sandusky, Ohio). 




374 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



Esox nobilior Jordan, Zoology of Ohio, vol. iv, 1882, 917 ; Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1882, 353 ; Forbes, 111. State Fish Comm., 

 1884, 71 (Lake Michigan) ; Jordan, Cat. Fi.sh. N. A., 51, 1885. 



.' Esox ohiensis Kirtland, "Cleveland Annals of Science, 1854." 



Habitat. — Great Lakes, occasionally in the Ohio and Upper 

 Mississippi Rivers. 



One specimen examined by us is from the Ohio River at New 

 Albany, Indiana. 



We here adopt the name Esox masquinongy of Mitchill for this 

 species instead of the more familiar and preferable Esox nobilior 

 of apparently later date. 



Professor Jordan has been unable to find the description of 

 Mitchill in the files of the Mirror, where it is said by De Kay to 

 occur. A portion of the description of Mitchill is quoted by 

 De Kay, and this part applies to the Muskalunge much better 

 than to the Pikes. Moreover, reference to Mitchill's name is 

 made by Kirtland at a date prior to the publication of the work 

 of De Kaj\ 



It is therefore highly probable that a description of Esox mas- 

 quinongy has been somewhere printed by Mitchill, and if so, that 

 this is the earliest account of the Muskalunge. 



The descriptions of Esox ohioensis is said to refer to this 

 species, but we have not been able to examine the original paper 

 of Dr. Kirtland. 



List of Nominal Species with Identifications. 



The following is a list of nominal species referred to in the 

 foregoing paper, arranged in chronological order with our iden- 

 tification of each. Tenable specific names are printed in italics. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



375 



Nominal Species. Date. 



Esox fasciatus De Kay, 1842, 



Esox tredecem-radiatus De Kay. 1842, 



Esox vermiculatus Le Sueur. 1846, 



Esox lineatus Le Sueur, 1846, 



Esox deprandus Le Sueur, 1846, 



Esox lugubrosus Le Sueur, 1846, 



Esox lucioides Agassiz & Girard, 1849, 



Esox boreus Agassiz, 1850, 



Esox nobilior Thompson, 1850, 



Esox crassus, Agassiz, 1854, 



Esox umbrosus, Kirtlaud, 1854, 



Esox ohioensis, Khtland, 1854, 



Esox ornatus, Girard, 1854, 



Esox affinis Holbrook, 1855, 



Esox ravenelii Holbrook, 1855, 



Esox cypho Cope, 1865. 



Esox porosus Cope, 1866, 



Identification. 

 Esox americanus. 

 Esox reticularis. 

 Esox vermiculatus. 

 Esox vermiculatus. 

 Esox lucius. 

 Esox lucius ? 

 Esox lucius. 

 Esox lucius. 

 Esox masquinongy. 

 Esox vermiculatus? 

 Esox vermiculatus. 

 Esox masquinongy ? 

 Esox americanus. 

 Esox reticulatus. 

 Esox americanus. 

 Esox vermiculatus. 

 Esox vermiculatus. 




376 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



September 8. 

 Dr. A. E. Foote in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



Inflorescence of the Composite. — At the meeting of the Botan- 

 ical section, on the seventh inst., Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked 

 that it seemed obvious, by the rule in Asteraceous plants, or the 

 order Composite, that the order of anthesis was inversely to the 

 growth. But by a note of Prof. Asa Gray in his new synoptical 

 Flora of North America, referring to Liatris, it did not appear 

 to have received the marked attention of botanists. Among the 

 generic characters of Liatris, Dr. Gray gives flowering from the 

 top downwards, as in an inverted spike or raceme. He exhibited 

 specimens of Mulgedium, Lactuca, Erecthites, Gnaphalium, Aster, 

 Solidogo, Vernonia, Erigeron, Bidens, and Xanthium, all gathered 

 casually and hastily within a few yards of each other, to show 

 that the upper or terminal flower was the first to open, then the 

 upper flower on the next branch of the raceme or panicle, and 

 then the lower ones in succession. If in these plants the side 

 branches were arrested in their growth, and the terminal flowers 

 of the branchlets brought down in proximity to the main stem, 

 we had precisely the same kind of anthesis as in Liatris. If 

 Liatris had a branched panicle instead of a spicate inflorescence, 

 we should not notice an}' difference between it and other plants. 

 There were some other families of plants that presented a similar 

 order of anthesis, but it is so marked a character in Composite as 

 to make it well worthy of consideration in connection with the 

 peculiar construction of the flower heads. 



A remarkable reflection is that this completion of growth, and 

 their flowering down the stems backwards, ceases with the forma- 

 tion of the flower heads. Then the anthesis of the florets is with 

 and not reversely to the growth. In a sunflower, for instance, 

 any one may remember that the florets near the ray open first, and 

 continue to open spirally until the centre is reached. 



There were, however, exceptions in composite to the order of 

 anthesis in the flower heads. In Ambrosia the lower flowers on 

 the spike opened first, and they continued to open upwards as in 

 the raceme of any other order of plants. In the female plants of 

 Ambrosia artemisieefolia. being abundant this season (1885) the 

 truly racemose order of opening was the same as in the ordinary 

 monoecious plants. 



September 15. 



Mr. Charles Morris in the chair. 



Twenty-three persons present. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 377 



On the Pectoral Filaments in the Sea Robin (Primotus palmipes). 

 — Dr. Harrison Allen said, in speaking of the pectoral flu of 

 the family of teliostean fishes, the Triglidce, that the first three 

 rays are known as the pectoral filaments. They are disposed 

 ventrally, separated from the bod}' of the fin, and placed well in 

 front of its base. The filaments are curved somewhat upon them- 

 selves, and are moved by powerful muscles. The nerves supply- 

 ing them are derived from the ganglionic masses (so character- 

 istic of the Triglidae) at the beginning of the spinal cord. The 

 filaments are used not only for touch but for locomotion. In 

 directing the body toward the right, the left filaments are in 

 constant motion (like the limbs of a salamander) while the right 

 filaments are at rest. In directing the body toward the left, the 

 motion thus described is reversed. The filaments are also used 

 in stirring up the soft silt which composes the bottoms on which 

 the fish rests. The organs are thus put to comparative rough 

 usage, so that one learns with a sense of surprise that the tops 

 and sides near the tips possess a high degree of differentiation of 

 the tegument. The organ, while appearing to be tactile in nature, 

 recalls in character the general features of a retinal surface. Both 

 in longitudinal and in transverse section the organ is seen to be 

 composed of four layers of cells. The first basal laj-er is made up 

 of small nearly round cells. The second la} - er is composed of large 

 fusiform cells, each of which contains granular contents surround- 

 ing a distinct circular nucleus. The third layer is composed of 

 columnar cells resembling finger-like processes which arc arranged 

 like a layer of retinal rods. A connective tissue membrane which 

 might be compared to the external limiting membrane of the retina 

 intervenes between the third and second layer of cells. The 

 fourth and peripheral layer is composed of diaphanous tube-like 

 prolongations of the side of the cells which compose the third 

 layer. It varies greatly in thickness. In some portions of each 

 filament the fourth layer is very thin, and barely covers the tips of 

 the processes of the third layer, or it is of a thickness nearly 

 equal to one-half the thickness of the entire organ. The layer 

 appears to be tightly held to the third, and is often detached in 

 the sections. The general membrane is smooth and uniform at 

 the tips of the filaments, but is arranged in broad capitate 

 papillae elsewhere. 



The recorder thought the pectoral filaments to be beautiful 

 objects for study. They can be readily obtained since the sea- 

 robin is a common summer fish along the Atlantic coast. 



September 22. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 




378 proceedings of the academy of [1885. 



September 29. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



October 5. 



Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr., in the chair. 



Twenty-four persons present. 



A paper entitled "Attack and Defence as Agents in Animal 

 Evolution," by Charles Morris, was presented for publication. 



October 13. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



Notes on Gactaceee. — Elastic Fruit in Mamillaria. — At the 

 meeting of the Botanical Section of the Academy, held on the 

 12th inst., Mr. Meehan referred to his former observations on 

 the sudden growth of the fruit of some species of cactacese, indi- 

 cating that it was not a growth before maturity, but an elastic 

 projection of a fruit already mature. Since that time he had been 

 able to note in Mamillaria gladiata, M. recurva, and some other 

 Mexican species, in which there was only the apex of the red 

 fruit visible between the mamma over night, a full elongation to 

 the length of an inch by 9 A. M. the next day. They were clear 

 cases of the elongation of the fruit after maturity and not a 

 growth. 



The (lowers of Opuntia Rafinesqui had very irritable stamens 

 when the Mowers were fully expanded under a bright sun. Some 

 echinocacti had stamens irritable in a less degree, but in Echino- 

 cactus efinaceus the stamens were quite as irritable as in the 

 opuntia noted. 



On the Flora of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.^-At the 

 ~.niie meeting of the Botanical Section Mr. Redfield spoke of 

 the topographical features of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, 

 in connection with the flora of those islands. The northern por- 

 tion of the island of Martha's Vineyard rises into rounded 

 hills of considerable elevation, composed of gravelly drift, 

 strewn occasionally with large boulders. The}' are evidently 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 379 



of glacial origin. The more central portion consists of level 

 plains of gravel, covered with oaks, mostly Quercus oblusi- 

 loba. The general character of the flora is much like that found 

 on the summit of the divides in southern New Jersey, though 

 much move limited as to species. Farther south, extensive ponds, 

 both of fresh and salt water, introduce their characteristic vege- 

 tation. In Nantucket he had* found the gravelly hills of much 

 less height, the greater portion of the island consisting in fact of 

 treeless plains — one extensive grove of Pinus rigida exists in the 

 central portion of the island, and is known to have been planted. 

 The plains alluded to were many years ago occupied as sheep 

 pastures. But of late years this has been prohibited, and it is 

 said that since then there has been a great change in the character 

 of the vegetation. The most characteristic plant of these plains 

 seemed to be Arctostaphylos uva-ursi, which grows there in greater 

 profusion than he had ever seen it. The two species of Hudsonia 

 abound, the H. ericoides being seen everywhere, and less frequently 

 the more bluish-green tufts of H. tomentosa. Polygala jjolygama, 

 Myrica cerifera and various Vaccinese abound. He saw many 

 large patches of Gorema Conradii, the existence of which in 

 Nantucket had first been made known by Mrs. Owen of Spring- 

 field, Mass. But the most interesting feature is the existence 

 here of three species of heath, possibly indigenous. Mrs. Owen, 

 who published a preliminary catalogue of the Nantucket flora a 

 few years ago, records Galluna vulgaris and Erica cinerea as found 

 upon the island. The first of these had long been known to occur 

 at Tewksbury, Mass., and there had been some question as to 

 whether its presence there was due to human agenc} r . Its subse- 

 quent discovery in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland had seemed 

 to strengthen the idea of its indigenous character. Mr. R. did 

 not see the locality of Galluna vulgaris, but had the privilege of 

 seeing that of the Erica cinerea. This plant had been known 

 and watched for 10 or 12 3'ears, and is evidently an old one. It 

 grows in the open common — far away from the town — and there 

 is nothing about its surroundings to indicate human introduction. 

 It covers only a space of eight inches by ten. 



Since Mr. Redfield's visit the third species Erica tetralix had 

 been discovered in a locality very distant from that of E. cinerea, 

 but under circumstances which favor the idea of its accidental 

 introduction in connection with the importation of foreign trees. 

 But there are said to be seven or eight of the plants all thriving, 

 large, and bushy. 



October 20. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 




380 proceedings of the academy of [1885. 



October 27. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Fortj*-two persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : — 



"A Review of the American Gasterostidas," by Carl H. Eigeu- 

 man. 



"A Catalogue of the Fishes of Bean Blossom Creek, Monroe 

 Co., Ind.," by Carl H. Eigenman and Morton W. Fordice. 



" List of Fishes collected in Harvey and Cowley Counties, 

 Kansas," by B. W. Everman and Morton W. Fordice. 



"A Revision of the American species of the Genus Gerres," by 

 B. W. Everman and Seth E. Meek. 



"A Revision of the American species of the Genus Scorpaena," 

 bj' Seth E. Meek and Robert Newland. 



The Committee appointed to settle the estate of the late Henry 

 N. Johnson, under whose will dated March 5, 1878, the Academy 

 is made residuary legatee after the death of his wife, reported 

 that Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson had died February 21, 1885, that 

 the estimated value of the entire estate amounts to $51,761.40, 

 and that the present income from the productive portion, less 

 taxes and water rent, is $1434.82. 



The following resolution was unanimously adopted : — 



Resolved, That the thanks of the Academy are herebjr tendered 

 to Mr. Jacob Binder and to Uselma C. Smith, Esq., the Solicitor 

 of the Academy, for their careful and laborious services in the 

 matter of the Johnson estate. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE OF HENRY N. JOHNSON. 

 BY THOMAS MEEHAN. 



In the central part of Germantown, on what is known as " The 

 battle-ground," is " Upsal," the estate of John Johnson, the de- 

 scendant of Dirk Jansen, an early settler in that borough. The 

 residence is some five hundred feet west of the celebrated Chew 

 Mansion, in which a number of British troops fortified themselves 

 in the war of the Revolution to resist the advance of General 

 Washington's army towards Philadelphia. In front of John 

 Johnson's house the cannon were placed that were used by the 

 American army in the attack on the Chew House. The estate 

 was known as " Upsal," a name associated with the great Swed- 

 ish botanist Linnaeus ; but in this case given from its being the 

 birthplace of Mrs. John Johnson. 



A love of* botany, or at least of rare trees and plants, must have 

 been a trait in the character of John Johnson, for when the writer 

 first knew it, about 1856, it was, in many regards, a botanic 

 garden, in respect to the number of rare herbaceous plants growing 

 there, while some of the finest specimens of rare trees to be found 

 about the city, adorned the grounds. At that time it contained 

 a specimen of the European silver fir, which the writer measured 

 and found over ninety feet high ; a very large deciduous cypress, by 

 examining which the late Dr. Engelmann made his first discovery 

 of the fact that at least one coniferous plant imitated amentaceous 

 plants in advancing considerably male flower buds in the fall ; 

 magnolias, and especially a specimen of the American yew, which 

 remains to this day probably the finest specimen of this plant in 

 the world. These trees, according to the statement of Henry >»., 

 the son and subject of this sketch, were planted by John Johnson 

 about the year 1800. 



Henry N. was born on the 20th of May, 1820. He completed 

 his education in the old Germantown Academy in 1839. He was 

 noted among his schoolmates for a studious disposition, and in 

 the classics, literature, and mathematics, particularly, kept at the 

 head of his class. Entering manhood he started, in connection 

 with a friend, the business of a bookseller, on Chestnut Street, 

 near Seventh, in Philadelphia, which was ultimately abandoned. 

 A physical infirmity which afflicted him from birth, rendered 




382 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



him averse to city life, and after declining business, he took on 

 himself the care of the estate — the garden, especially, receiving 

 his special attention. Physically strong, he loved to apply him- 

 self to garden work, and a large number of rare trees and plants 

 were added from time to time, and set out with his own hands. 

 Some of the finest specimens of the Japan cedar — Cryptomeria 

 Japonica — are here, and the only known plant of the mammoth 

 Sequoia in existence around Philadelphia. The tree, although not 

 seeming to like our hot summers, is growing here in fair health — all 

 from his planting and care. He would have disclaimed the title of 

 botanist, but his love for trees and plants, and the great amount 

 of knowledge he possessed regarding them, was very unusual in 

 a mere lover of gardening. He always took great interest in the 

 progress of natural history, and, in conversation with the writer, 

 subjects connected with the Academy of Natural Sciences, show- 

 ing an interest in its welfare, were frequent topics. 



He continued his interest in the oversight of the family estate 

 till about 1865, when it was divided, and he took his separate 

 share. About this time he married a lady of Philadelphia with 

 whom he had been long acquainted, and went to housekeeping on 

 Guard Avenue, near Fairmount Park, in which beautiful spot, 

 among the trees and flowers, he would spend most of his time. 

 He died on the 30th of August, 1879, leaving the use of all he was 

 possessed of to his wife during her lifetime, and to revert to the 

 Academy on her decease. 




1885.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 383 



November 3. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



Virulence of the Common Parsnip. — Mr. Meehan referred to 

 the deaths of some children, at Danville, Pa., in the spring of 

 1884, reputed to be caused by eating the roots of the wild pars- 

 nip. This was usually understood to mean the roots of Cicuta 

 maculata, or perhaps Conium maculatum. Roots had been sent 

 to him by the attendant physician, among which was the fragment 

 of a portion that one of the dead children had partially eaten, with 

 teeth marks on the remains. There seemed no chance for error 

 in this case. The root, which was evidently neither of the two 

 reputed to be virulent, was planted. It proved to be the true garden 

 parsnip. Pdstinaca sativa, which has become an escape from 

 gardens in many parts of the United States. Although the evi- 

 dence that the deaths were from the wild roots of the common 

 garden parsnip appeared so conclusive, in view of the fact that 

 there seems to be no record of such a virulent character in con- 

 nection with this plant, it was thought possible there might still 

 be some mistake, and corroborative evidence was sought for. It was 

 found that in the cultivated form some growers are careful about 

 weeding or working among the leaves while the dew is on them, 

 as severe cases of poisoning have been known to result, and on 

 large seed farms, the workmen engaged in cutting the stalks at 

 the seed harvest, have to protect their hands and arms against 

 contact with the juices, or they are liable to be severely poisoned 

 in a manner similar to that from the poison vine Rhus toxicoden- 

 dron. With these facts it seems worth placing on record what 

 seems to be indisputable that the deaths of the Danville children 

 were really caused by the wild garden parsnip, Pastinaca sativa. 



November 10. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Twenty-four persons present. 



The Shape of the Hind Limb in the Mammalia as Modified bxj 

 the Weight of the Trunk. — Dr. Harrison Allen directed attention 

 to the osseous characters of the posterior extremities in mammals, 

 as determined by the weight borne. The shape of the hind limb 

 in the majority of the forms is that best adapted for sustaining 

 the weight of the hinder part of the trunk. 



The head of the femur lies upon a neck which is relatively long ; 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



the shaft is cylindroid, and the condylar end is expanded in all 

 its diameters, but notably in its posterior diameter. Were a sec- 

 tion of the condyles made by extending downward the plane of 

 the posterior surface of the femur, the condyles would be removed 

 in such manner as to retain in the removed segment the base 

 of the inter-condyloid notch. If, however, the parts named be 

 examined in the sloth, in the genus Gylosthurus (the two-toed 

 arboreal ant-eater), in the bat and in the seal, the head of the femur 

 is seen to be without a neck, or to possess a very small one. The 

 shaft of the femur is flattened, and the condylar end is scarcely at 

 nil expanded. If a section be made as above described, the base 

 of the condyloid notch is not removed with the section. The 

 bone in its general features resembles the femur of the embryo. 



The fibula in the genera bearing the weight of the body, exhibits 

 two forms, one in which the bone is parallel to the tibia, and nearly 

 equal to it in length, and a second in which the distal end is either 

 anchylosed to the shaft of the tibia or is obliterated. In the genera 

 which are suspended by the feet, or are otherwise free from the 

 sustenance of weight, the fibula, when it departs from the type in 

 which it is separate from, but co-equal with the tibia, is always 

 reduced at the proximal end. In the seal the proximal end is 

 anchylosed to the shaft of the tibia; in the bat the proximal end 

 is entirely absent ; in the sloth the proximal end, while free, is 

 small, while the distal end is broad and highly specialized in 

 function. 



The astragalus is flattened and irregular in the t} r pes whose 

 posterior extremities sustain weight, but in those free from such 

 weight it is elongated. The tendency is seen in Galago and 

 Tarsuis, for both calcaneum and astragalus are seen to be elon- 

 gated, but the tendency is carried to an extreme degree in the 

 sloth, the bat, and in l'hoca vitulina. 



The manner of articulation in the gorilla of the fibula, with 

 both the calcaneum and the astragalus, was dwelt upon, as well 

 as the fact that the astragalus in that genus possesses a broad 

 deflected fibular facet. This peculiar projection is rudimental in 

 the astragalus of the skeleton of civilized man, but was found 

 highly developed in an astragalus from an Indian grave found at 

 Cooper's Point, New Jersey. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 385 



ATTACK AND DEFENSE AS AGENTS IN ANIMAL EVOLUTION. 

 BY CHARLES MORRI8. 



In considering the development of the dermal skeleton of 

 animals, with its various modifications, we are led almost to the 

 conception that nature has been controlled at successive periods 

 by special ideas, each dominant during a long period, and then 

 abandoned in favor of a new one. I have, in a previous commu- 

 nication to the Academy, advanced the hypothesis that in the 

 primitive life era animals were destitute of hard parts, either 

 external or internal, and that to this we must ascribe the lack of 

 primitive fossils. 



The development of an external skeleton, which seems to have 

 long preceded that of an internal one, came like a new idea to 

 nature, which was adopted almost simultaneously as it seems, 

 though probably at considerable intervals, by the various t}*pes 

 of life. We are quite sure that the first appearance of fossils in 

 the rocks does not indicate the first appearance of life upon the 

 earth. Early fossilization is due to the preservation of the 

 dermal skeletons of animals of considerably advanced organiza- 

 tion, and these were very probably preceded, during a long era, 

 by soft-bodied forms of low organization. These could leave no 

 trace of their existence, except in the case of the burrowing 

 worms, or of impressions made by animal forms on beds of mud 

 or other plastic material. Yet after the advent of armored ani- 

 mals, it is probable that the seas were still tenanted by numerous 

 soft-bodied forms, mainly swimmers, the progenitors of the many 

 naked ocean swimmers which still exist. 



The earliest armored forms were principally surface dwellers, 

 or sluggish swimmers. Swift-swimming armored animals came 

 in with the fishes, and these increased in thickness and weight of 

 armor to the end of the Devonian era. During this period all the 

 higher forms of life seem to have acquired more or less dense 

 dermal armor. Their agility must have been much reduced by 

 the weight and rigidity of this armor. None but the fishes were 

 active swimmers, and most of the armored animals were surface- 

 dwellers. 



If now we come down to a later era of life, we find in operation 

 what seems a third idea of nature. The prevailing tendency in 

 26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



animal life is no longer to assume armor, but to throw off armor, 

 and return towards the unprotected condition. This tendencj' 

 was quite as marked in its operation as the others, as a hasty 

 review will show. 



In the antique t}-pe of vertebrate life, the fish, the thick armor 

 of the primeval era has been in great part replaced b} r the thin 

 scales of the Teleosteans. The Ganoids have nearly vanished. 

 Man}' Elasmobranchs yet exist, but their armor never gained the 

 dense and rigid character of the Ganoid scales. But the loss of 

 the old condition is more particularly shown in the new forms of 

 life. The Labyrinthodont amphibians were clothed in armor, 

 their heads in particular being protected by hard bony plates. 

 Modern amphibians are naked-skinned animals. The reptiles are 

 usually scaled, but, with the exception of the crocodiles and 

 turtles, and some few fossil types, do not seem to have ever been 

 clothed in bony armor. In the later vertebrate classes, the birds 

 and mammals, all defensive armor is lost, the covering of hairs 

 and feathers being protective only against cold. Finally, in the 

 human species, even the covering of hairs is nearly lost, and in 

 external condition the highest form of animal life approaches the 

 lowest. 



A like tendency to pass from the armored to the unarmored 

 condition appears in invertebrate life. In most of the inverte- 

 brates the dermal covering serves as a basis of muscular attach- 

 ment, and cannot be dispensed with. The soft-bodied invertebrates 

 of low orders, such as the worms, the medusae, etc., are probably 

 survivals of the primitive life condition, and may indicate the 

 general character of pre-Cambrian life. But in the higher mol- 

 lusks a very interesting variation appears. The Palaeozoic 

 cephalopods were all covered with a dense protective armor. In 

 the Mezozoic period this class began to give way to an unarmored 

 class, with a change in the character of its muscular attachment. 

 To the tetrabranchiates, with muscles attached to the external 

 shell, were added the dibranchiates, with naked surface, and an 

 internal basis of muscular attachment. Since that period the 

 evolutionary process has been highly interesting. The armored 

 cephalopods have gradually disappeared, until only the Nautilus 

 remains. The unarmored forms have rapidly increased, until they 

 abundantly people the modern seas. 



The process of modification I have here briefly indicated has 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 387 



another interesting feature, which may be pointed out. This is 

 that the modification has not taken place by a simple change in 

 the dermal structure of existing types, but that this change has 

 been accompanied by a radical change in organic structure. The 

 representatives of the old forms have retained much of their old 

 surface structure. The radical variation in surface condition has 

 been confined to new types of life. 



In the case of the primitive soft-bodied animals, for instance, 

 they have probably had representative forms throughout the 

 whole era of life, and may be closely simulated by the soft-bodied 

 ocean animals } r et existing. The assumption of armor by certain 

 forms was probably accompanied by a marked change in structure, 

 the dermal variation being co-related with other important 

 changes. Of this, of course, we cannot be sure, but in the parallel 

 case of the discarding of armor this idea holds good. The 

 Ganoids continue armored fishes to the present day. The pre- 

 vailing thin-scaled fishes are of a new structural type. In the 

 cephalopotls we do not find a simple discarding of shells by the 

 armored type, but the gradual disappearance of this type, and its 

 replacement by a type of markedly different structure. In the 

 vertebrata generally the antique types have preserved the scaled 

 condition to a greater or less extent. It is in the new structural 

 types, the birds and mammals, that this antique condition has been 

 most fully discarded, and replaced by a radically distinct dermal 

 covering. It would almost seem as if it had been impossible for 

 any type of animal to completely dispense with a primitive struc- 

 tural feature except under the influence of a general organic 

 change. In the assumption of armor the whole organic structure 

 may have suffered a correlated change. In the discarding of 

 armor a like radical change in structure has taken place, while 

 the representatives of the ancient types have preserved their 

 ancient dermal conditions. 



I present these simply as a series of well-known facts. It is 

 with the cause of these facts that I am mainly concerned. Why 

 did animal life exist for a long period without protective covering ; 

 then adopt armor of defense, and develop it to an extraordinary 

 degree ; and finally slowly discard this armor, and return towards 

 the unprotected condition ? We have here a remarkable series of 

 evolutionary changes. They undoubtedly had sufficient and 

 powerful causes. What were those causes ? 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



These we need not go far to seek. They are plainly evident. 

 The variations described have taken place under the influence of 

 one of the most active and efficient agents in evolution, that of 

 the reciprocal influence of attack and defense on animal structure. 

 To this agent in animal change there has not been given so much 

 attention as it demands. It is, indeed, but one out of numerous 

 agents which act to modify animal form and structure. But 

 among these agents it has been one of the most active, efficient 

 and unceasing. 



The effort of food animals to escape from carnivorous foes, has 

 given rise to a great variety of defensive tissues, functions, and 

 habits. It has aided in the natural selection of armor of various 

 kinds, of defensive weapons, of speed and flexibility of motion, 

 of size and strength of body, of cunning and alertness, and of 

 many other characteristics, each of evolutionary importance. 

 And the study of animal development goes to show that these 

 varied conditions have been assumed successive!} 7 . Nature has 

 apparently fully worked out the capabilities of one mode of 

 defense before proceeding to another. 



The effort to capture and destroy food animals has been equally 

 important as an agent in evolution. It has caused the natural 

 selection of weapons of offense, such as claws and teeth, of 

 strength, swiftness, agility, alertness, cunning, and the like attri- 

 butes of mind and body, together with many special habits, all of 

 which form steps in evolution. The main cause of this advance 

 has been the reciprocal action of these agencies. If a food animal 

 gained some structural feature which gave it an advantage over 

 its carnivorous foes, the latter would be at a disadvantage until 

 they had gained equivalent features. So if a carnivorous animal 

 gained some habit, motion or weapon which gave it an advantage 

 in destroying, this must have acted as an incitement to a corre- 

 sponding development in food animals. Natural selection has, in 

 both cases, preserved the forms best adapted to the new condi- 

 tions of attack or defense, and the carnivora and herbivora have, 

 in a metaphorical sense, pursued each other up the ladder of 

 evolution. 



In this process now one class, now the other, may have taken 

 the lead. If at any time the two classes were evenly balanced in 

 powers of attack and defense, any new power of defense or escape 

 in the food animals would undoubtedly be preserved by natural 




1885.] NATURAL 8CIENCE8 OF PHILADELPHIA. 389 



selection. It would give them an advantage in the struggle for 

 existence, which could not be overcome until the carnivora ha<l 

 gained a correlated development. On the other hand any new 

 offensive weapon or method would give the carnivora an advan- 

 tage, which would render necessary some new defensive adaptation 

 in food animals. 



In this process of evolution we find several instances in which 

 defensive appliances seem to have gained a special development, 

 which were only slowly met by new methods of attack. Such I 

 conceive to have been the case when the power of secretion of 

 dermal armor was once attained, and to the high value of this 

 defensive expedient I ascribe its rapid development. According 

 to m} r theory of the case the preceding animals had been naked 

 skinned, and the destructive weapons of the carnivora such as 

 were adapted to the capture of soft-bodied pre}'. There is not a 

 shred of evidence that any toothed forms existed preceding or 

 during the Cambrian era, nor until well on in the Silurian. Yet 

 toothless animals could not easily overcome animals with a strong 

 covering of bone or other hard material. It is to this fact that I 

 ascribe the rapid increase in number and variety of armored 

 forms. Their armor gave them a special advantage in defense, 

 and under this idea there is no difficulty in understanding the 

 very rapid and general evolution of this structural feature of 

 animal life. 



In fact, as a result of the development of defensive armor, a 

 discrepancy arose between the agencies of attack and defense. 

 Defense had the best of it. A structural feature had been rapidly 

 acquired, which could only be met by some corresponding new 

 means of attack, and this new carnivorous weapon took a long 

 time to develop. 



The new weapon, through whose aid the aggressive again 

 slowly matched thedefensive appliances, made its appearance in 

 the form of the tooth. It but slowly grew effective. The first 

 evidence we find of teeth are the minute conodonts, which may 

 or may not have had this function. Fish teeth at first appear in 

 small and weak forms, but they gradually grow large and powerful , 

 and well adapted for cutting and crushing. A race between 

 aggressive and defensive powers apparently took place. Armor 

 grew thicker and denser as teeth became more efficient. As one 

 result of the race we have the great Devonian fishes, with their 




390 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



powerful armor and teeth. The toothless invertebrates probably 

 still fed on small, unarmored prey. 



In all cases, however, the most powerful animals would have 

 little or no need of defensive armor. The armed Ganoids prob- 

 ably needed defense against each other. But it is likely that 

 they were mainly defended against the great Elasmobranchs, 

 which were the ruling tyrants of the seas, and which needed no 

 defense beyond their osseous tubercles and spines, this type of 

 armor permitting the utmost flexibility of motion. As Packard 

 says of them : "Sharks and skates are engines of destruction, 

 having been, since their early appearance in the upper Silurian 

 age, the terror of the seas. Their entire structure is such as to 

 enable them to seize, crush, tear and rapidly digest large inverte- 

 brates, and the larger marine members of their own class. Hence 

 their own forms are gigantic, soft, not protected by scales or 

 armor, as they have in the adult form few enemies." Such seems 

 to have been the outcome of the agencies of attack and defense in 

 the pakeozoic era, a minor series of soft-bodied animals, an inter- 

 mediate series of strongly armored animals, and a superior series 

 of animals, adapted to break through the strongest defensive 

 armor. 



As a result of this evolutionary process the powers of assault 

 and defense again became equalized, and armor lost its special 

 value as a defensive agent. From that time forward defense 

 seems to have adopted a new expedient, and a fresh series of modi- 

 fications arose. W armor had become of li.ttle value in defense, 

 flight remained useful. But armor impeded flight, both from its 

 weight and the rigidity of body it produced. Thus for the 

 development of speed, agility and flexibility of motion, it was 

 necessary to get rid of armor ; and during the whole of the later 

 geological periods this has been the character of the evolutionary 

 process, at least in the free-moving animals. Food animals have 

 thrown off their armor, and trusted to speed and flexibility of 

 motion for safety. Carnivorous animals have followed in the 

 -Mine direction, and got rid of their disabling armor. 



If we puisne this subject further we can perceive the succes- 

 sive adoption of several other expedients. It is impossible to 

 say whether flight or pursuit first aided in the development of 

 winged animals. Bui it is evident that Hying food animals would 

 lie nearly safe from the attacks of surface carnivora, and would 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 391 



gain a security which only the development of flying carnivora 

 could overcome. The same may be said of tree-living and bur- 

 rowing animals. It seems highly probable that all these expedi- 

 ents were first adopted in the effort to escape destruction, and 

 that similar expedients were afterwards adopted by carnivora in 

 their pursuit of prey. It would not be safe to declare that the 

 various expedients mentioned were in every case first adopted 

 by food animals, and afterwards by the pursuing carnivora, but 

 the probability is that this was the case as a general rule. 



I may briefty l'efer to one other and a highly important result 

 of this evolutionary process. When powers of flight had become 

 balanced by powers of pursuit, it is evident that this expedient, 

 like that of armor, had lost its special utility. As a result another 

 and final expedient began a special development. Cunning and 

 shrewdness came into play as aids in escape. The mental powers 

 of animals began to strongly unfold. This was the case in both 

 classes of animals, and it is impossible to say which took the 

 lead. In both classes cunning, concealment, reasoning powers, 

 came into play, and blind flight and pursuit, or defense through 

 sheer bulk and strength, became succeeded, in many cases, by the 

 higher and more efficient agency of the mind. Instinct became 

 less dominant in animal life ; reason more dominant. In other 

 words, the mind grew more active and varied in its operations. 



The growth of this most recent animal modification is manifest 

 in the character of the later geological life. The development of 

 the brain becomes marked as we enter the tertiary era, and the 

 capacit}^ of the brain cavity steadily increases throughout this 

 era. What is called cephalization is the most important charac- 

 teristic of animal development throughout the tertiary age. In 

 the recent era this has reached its culmination, and mental 

 expedients have replaced physical conditions in the highest life 

 types as the most efficient agencies of attack and defense. 



Thus we seem to perceive four successive ideas emerging into 

 prominence in the development of the animal kingdom. In the 

 primeval epoch it is probable that only soft-bodied animals 

 existed, and the weapons of assault were the tentacle, the thread 

 cell, the sucking disk, and the like unindurated weapons. At a 

 later period armor became generally adopted for defense, and the 

 tooth became the most efficient weapon of attack. Still later 

 armor was discarded, and flight or concealment became the 




'6V1 PttOCJiliDINUS Ui' TliE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



main methods of escape, and swift pursuit the principle of 

 attack, while claws were added to teeth as assailing weapons. 

 Finally mentality came into play, intelligence became the most 

 efficient agent both in attack and defense, and a special develop- 

 ment of the mind began. As a culmination of the whole, we 

 have man, in whom mentality has replaced all other agents 

 in the struggle for existence. But side by side with man all the 

 other types exist, the soft-bodied, the armored, the swift-moving, 

 and those in which cunning precedes the higher mentality. In 

 the existing conditions of life upon the earth we have an epitome 

 of the whole long course of evolution. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



November 17. 



Mr. Thos. Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 



Thirty-two persons present. 



The deaths of Win, G. Piatt, a member, and of Wm. B. Carpen- 

 ter, a correspondent, were announced. 



November 24. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twent3'-two persons present. 



A paper entitled " Notes on the Lafayette Serpentine Belt," by 

 Theo. D. Rand, was presented for publication through the Min- 

 eralogical Section. 



The following were elected members : 



John H. Campbell,W. G. A.Bonwill,M.D., Chas.S. Dolley,M. D., 

 Chas. N. Davis and Wm. D. Averell. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 




394 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A REVIEW OF THE AMERICAN SPECIES OF THE GENUS SCORPJENA. 

 BY SET II E. MEEK AND ROBERT NEWLAND. 



In the presenl paper is given the synonymy of the American 

 speciea of the genus Scorpaena, with an analj'tical key, by which 

 the species may be recognized. For purposes of comparison, 

 the two European species are included iu the key and their 

 synonymy is given in part. Scorpaena dactyloptera is not included 

 in this analysis, as with Dr. Gill, we refer it to a distinct genus 

 Sebastophi*. 



The specimens examined b} T us all belong to the museum of 

 the Indiana University, most of them having been collected by 

 Professor Jordan. To Professor Jordan we are under many 

 obligations in connection with our study of this and other groups 

 of fishes. 



Genua SCORPiENA, Linnaeus. 



Scorpcena, Artedi, Genera Piscium, 1738, 4T. 

 Scorpcena, Linnaeus, Systema Naturae, 1766, 4.">2 (parvus). 

 Pontinus, Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 173 (castor). 

 Sebastapistes, (Gill) Streets, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus. vii, 1877, 63 (guttata; 

 strongia; cyu no stigma). 



Analysis of Species of Scorpaena. 



a. Occiput with a distinct quadrate pit, about as large as eye. 

 I). Breast not scaly; second anal spine decidedly stronger than 

 the third ; coronal spines present. 



c. Scales rather large, thin, most of them with dermal flaps ; 

 about 40 scales in lateral line ; a small distinct pit between 

 the lower anterior margin of orbit and suborbital stay; 

 dorsal I'm high, its longest spine If to 2 in head ; longest 

 anal spine 3£ in head ; eye small, 4f to 5 in length of 

 head ; supraocular tentacles less than the diameter of eye ; 

 pit at occiput rather shallow, nearly square. Head 2.', ; 

 depth 3; D. XII L0; A. III-5. Axil dusky with do 

 distincl spots. Fins all whitish, marbled with darker; 

 irregular dark markings on sides. Scrofa. 1. 



CC. Scales small, firm, a few below the lateral line with dermal 

 flaps. About 65 scales in the lateral line; no distinct 

 pit 1 ict ween the lower anterior margin of the orbit and 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



suborbital stay ; dorsal fin lower, its longest spine 2] in 

 head ; anal spine 2£ in head. Eye larger, 4} in head. 

 Supraocular tentacles about as long as diameter of eye. 

 Head 2£ ; depth 2f ; D. XII-10 ; A. III-5. Axil dusky, 

 with one or more dark spots. Body brownish red, mar- 

 bled with darker, and dotted with deep black, which some- 

 times forms edges around the darker spots. Porous. 2. 

 bb. Breast scaly. 

 d. Coronal spines present ; supraocular tentacles about equal 

 to diameter of eye. 

 e. Third anal spine evidently longer and stronger than the 

 second ; suborbital stay armed with three spines ; no 

 distinct pit between lower anterior margin of orbit and 

 suborbital stay ; length of second anal spine 2i (young) 

 to 3 (adult) in head ; longest dorsal spine 2^ in head. 

 Head 2^ ; depth 2§ ; scales in lateral line about 48 ; some 

 of the scales with dermal flaps. D. XII-10; A. Ill— 5. 

 Supraocular tentacles less than diameter of eye ; axil 

 dusk}', with small round brownish spots. Color brownish, 

 clouded with darker ; a few darker dots behind pectorals. 



Brasiliensis. 3. 

 ee. Third anal spine shorter and weaker than second. 

 /. Suborbital stay not armed with spines ; occipital pit 

 evidently broader than long. 

 g. Cheeks scaly ; fins low ; longest dorsal spine 1\ to 3 in 

 head ; no distinct pit between lower anterior margin 

 of orbit and suborbital stay. 

 /?. Scales large, some of them with dermal flaps ; about 30 

 in the lateral line ; supraorbital tentacles well devel- 

 oped. Head 2 T V ; depth 3£ ; D. XII-10 ; A. III-5 ; 

 longest dorsal spine 3 in head; longest anal spine 3 

 in head ; eye 4^ in head. Color gray or red, with 

 broad, darker shades, irregular and variable; fins 

 similarly colored; pectorals barred (Giinther.) 



Histrio. 4. 



hh. l [Scales smaller, without dermal flaps ; about 46 



scales in the lateral line. Head 2f ; depth 3§ ; eye 



3J in head ; longest dorsal spine 2i in head ; longest 



1 These characters are taken from Valenciennes figure, and are all more or 

 less doubtful. 




896 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



anal spine 2^ in head. D. XII-10 ; A. III-5. Head 

 chiefl}- red ; red markings on dorsal fin and on 

 back ; pectoral fins barred.] Fucata. 5. 



gg. Cheeks not evidently scaly ; fins higher; longest dorsal 

 spine 2 in bead ; a distinct pit between lower ante- 

 rior margin of orbit and suborbital stay ; scales 

 smaller ; about 50 in the lateral line ; no dermal flaps 

 except along the lateral line, where they are small ; 

 supraorbital tentacles small; about ^ diameter of 

 eye. Head 2^; depth 3^; ej'e 4^ in head; axil 

 dusky, with round brownish spots on its upper part ; 

 body with many round brownish-black spots, some 

 of which are nearlj' as large as eye. Guttata. 6. 

 ff. Suborbital stay armed with three or four spines; occip- 

 ital pit about as long as broad. 

 i. No distinct pit between lower anterior margin of orbit 

 and suborbital stay. Head entirely naked ; supra- 

 orbital tentacles little developed, less than diameter 

 of eye ; a few scales with dermal flaps, lateral line 

 with 42 scales. 



Head 2£; depth 2§; D. XII-10; A. III-5. 

 Longest dorsal spine 2^ in head ; longest anal spine 

 2£ in head ; eye 5 in head. 



Reddish, marbled with darker, all of the fins 

 light colored, 6cantily spotted (Gunther). 



Thompsoni. 7. 

 ii. A distinct pit between lower anterior margin of orbit 

 and suborbital stay ; upper parts of opercle scaly ; 

 supraorbital tentacles well developed, longer than 

 eye; most of the scales provided with dermal flaps; 

 lateral line with 30 scales. Head 2| ; depth 3 ; 

 D. XII-10; A. III-5. Longest dorsal spine 2§ in 

 head ; axil of pectoral black with few white spots ; 

 olive-brown, excessively marbled with silvery and 

 reddish ; fins profusely variegated ; caudal barred 

 with brown and silvery ; a dark blotch on spinous 

 dorsal between the sixth and seventh spines. 



Flumieri. 8. 



dd. Coronal spines absent. Supraocular tentacles high, more 



than twice the diameter of the eye; occipital pit rather 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 397 



deep ; longest dorsal spine 2\ in length of head ; head 

 2i ; depth 2f. About 38 scales in the lateral line ; eye 

 4 in head; dermal tlaps on lateral line longer than 

 eye, a few of the scales on upper and posterior parts 

 of the body with dermal flaps. Suborbital stay with 

 a small spine near its centre, one on its posterior 

 end ; axil dusky, with small white dots on its upper 

 portion; color reddish, marbled with brown. Head and 

 body minutely dotted with white ; caudal and anal fins 

 with broad white bands. Grandicornis. 9. 



aa. Occiput without evident pit ; no pit between lower anterior 

 margin of orbit and suborbital stay ; cheeks scaly. 



j. Pectoral rays all simple ; opercle and subopercle 

 well scaled ; occipital pit obsolete ; dermal flaps on 

 scales of the lateral line and belly. Supraorbital 

 tentacles not branched, £ the length of the body. 

 Second anal spine moderate ; spinous dorsal low, 

 D. XII-10 ; A. Ill— 5. Color uniform carmine-red, 

 the fins somewhat clouded with orange. Supra- 

 orbital tentacle and lower pectoral with brown 

 bands. Head 2? total length ; eye 5 in head. 



Castor. 10. 

 jj. Pectorals with some of their upper rays branched. 

 k. Scales large, about 28 in the lateral line ; occipital 

 cavity almost obsolete ; longest dorsal spine 2§ 

 in head ; longest anal spine 3 in head ; second 

 and third anal spines subequal ; few of the scales 

 with dermal flaps. Eye about 3£ in head. Sub- 

 orbital stay armed with two small spines ; supra- 

 ocular flaps minute, a few small flaps on the 

 head; depth of body 3 in length. Color dusky 

 grayish, marbled with blackish ; a black suborbital 

 bar ; a black bar at base of caudal ; axil of pec- 

 toral whitish with dusky specks, a black spot 

 on its upper edge ; ventrals mostly black ( Goode 

 and Bean). Occipitalis. 11. 



kk. Scales small, about 47 in the lateral line ; longest 

 dorsal spine 2£ in head ; longest anal spine If in 

 head ; second anal spine evidently longer and 

 stronger than the third. Head 2|; depth 3 ; eye 




398 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



4 in head. Sides of body brownish, with darker 

 brown marmorations ; a black spot on upper part 

 of spinous dorsal between the seventh and tenth 

 spines. Supraorbital tentacles very small (Stein- 

 dachner). Fernandeziana. 12. 



1. Scorpaena scrofa. 



Scorpcena scrofa Linnaeus, Systema Natura, 12th ed., 1766, 455 (Medi- 

 terranean Sea); Gmelin, Systema Natura, 1788, 1215 (Mediterra- 

 nean i;Turton's Linnaeus, Systema Natura, 1800, 756 (Mediterranean); 

 Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1800, 259, 280; Bloch & Schneider, 

 Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 192 (Atlantic ; Mediterranean) ; Risso. 

 Ichth. Nice, 1810, 188 (Nice); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. 

 Poiss., iv, 1829, 288 (Mediterranean); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. 

 Mus., ii, I860, 108 (Mediterranean ; Malta ; Dalmatia ; North Africa ; 

 Lisbon ; River Niger ; Azores ; Madeira); Steindachner, Iclith. Notiz. 

 & Berichte, iv, 1867, 75; (Barcelona; Tarragona; Valencia; Cadiz; 

 Gibraltar ; La Corufia ; Vigo ; Lisbon ; Teneriffe ; Sentubal) ; Bean, 

 Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1879, 23 (Gibraltar; and of authors generally). 



Scorpcena barbata Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 18C0, 274. 



Scorpcena lutea Risso, Ichth. Nice, 1810, 190 (Nice). 



? Scorpcena ustulata Lowe, Proc. Zool. Soc, 1)S49, 36 (Madeira); 

 Gunther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., 1860, 110 (copied.) 



Habitat. — Mediterranean Sea and the adjacent Atlantic. 

 The numerous specimens of Scorpsena scrofa examined by us 

 were collected at Venice by Dr. Jordan. 



2. Scorpaena porcus. 



Scorpcena porcus Linnaeus, Systema Natura, ed. x, 1758, 266 (Medi- 

 terranean) ; Linnaeus, Systema Natura, ed. xii, 1766, 452 (Madeira); 

 Turton's Linnaeus, Systema Natura, 1800, 755 (Mediterranean) ; 

 Bloch & Schneider, Systema Ichthyol., 1801, 192 (Mediterranean and 

 Atlantic); Risso, Ichthyol. Nice, 1810, 187 (Nice); Cuvier & Valen- 

 ciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 1829, 300 (Mediterranean, Teneriffe, 

 Caen; New York??); DeKay, N. Y. Fauna Fish., 1S42, 58 (copied); 

 Giinther, Cat, Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 107 (Mediterranean; Dal- 

 matia : Adriatic; Bay of Naples; Lisbon ; Lanzarote); Steindachner, 

 Ichth. Notizen und Berichte, 1867, 74 (Barcelona; Tarragona; 

 Valencia ; Alicante ; Malaga ; Cartagena ; Gibraltar ; Cadiz ; Setubal ; 

 Lisbon ; La Coruiia ; Vigo : Algorta ; Santa Cruz ; Teneriffe); Bean, 

 I 'roe. U. S. Nat. Mus., 187!). 23 (Constantinople; Marseilles); Jordan 

 & Gilbert, Byn. Fish. X. A., 1883, 68 (Southern Em ope). 



Cottus rnassilensis Forskal, Desc. Animal, 1775, 24 (Marseilles). 



Scorjm/iii ma88%len8is Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iii, 1*2!), 269 (Mar- 

 seilles); Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 1829, 303. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



Habitat. — Mediterranean Sea and adjacent Atlantic. The 

 locality "New York," given by Cuvier and Valenciennes, is 

 doubtless an error. 



The numerous specimens examined Irv us are from the market 

 of Venice. 



3. Scorpaena brasiliensis. 



Scorpama brasiliensis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 

 1829, 305 (Brazil); Giinther, Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 112 

 (South America ; Rio Janeiro ; Bahia); Kner, Xovara Fische., 1865, 

 114 (Rio Janeiro); Jordan, Cat, Fish. N. A., 1885, 109. 



Scorpana stearnsi Goode & Bean, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 236 

 (Gulf of Mexico); Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 421 

 (Pensacola); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 614 

 (Charleston) ; Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 620 

 (Charleston); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 951 ; Jordan, 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 1884, 45 (Egmont Key). 



Habitat Atlantic coast of America from Charleston to Rio 



Janeiro. 



The specimens of this species examined by us are from Key 

 West and Pensacola, Florida. 



There seems to be no serious reason to doubt that Scorpa na 

 brasiliensis is. identical with the species known on our coast as 

 Scorpsena stearnsi. 



4. Scorpaena histrio. 



Scorpcena histrio Jenyns, Zool. Voy. Beagle, Fishes, 1812, 35, pi. 8 

 (Chatham Island : Galapagos Archipelago) ; Giinther, Cat. Fish. 

 Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 115 (copied); Steindachner, Ichthyol. Beitriige, 

 ii, 1875, 8 (Juan Fernandez i; Jordan, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 1884, 292 (Chinchas Islands). 



? Scorpcena fucala Valenciennes, "Voy. Venus, v, Zool., 1855, 313, 

 PI. 3, rig. 2" (Galapagos Archipelago). 



Habitat. — Chatham Island ; Galapagos Archipelago. 



The figure of Scorpsena fucata differs in only a few minor 

 characters from S. histrio, and was probably intended for that 

 species. The differences may be due to the mistakes on the part 

 of the artist employed by Valenciennes. 



5. Scorpaena guttata. 



Scorpwna guttata Girard, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 1854, 145 

 (Monterey); Girard, TJ. S. Pac. R. R. Surv., 1859, 77, PI. 17 (Mon- 

 terey): Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. TJ. S. Nat, Mus.. 1880, 455 Santa 

 Barbara ; San Pedro ; San Diego) ; Jordan & Jouy, Proc. U. S. Nat. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Mns., 1881, C ("Wilmington, California ; Santa Catalina ; San Pedro; 

 Santa Barbara); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1881, 278 

 (Ascension Islands; West Coast of Lower California); Jordan & 

 Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A., 1883, 679 ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 

 109. 

 Sebastipistes guttata (Gill) Streets, Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., vii, 1877, 62 

 (generic diagnosis). 



Habitat. — Coast of California, from Point Conception south- 

 ward to Cerros Island. 



We have examined two specimens of this species, both from 

 Southern California. 



6. Scorpsna Thompsoni. 



Scorpcena thou'psoni Giinther, Voyage of the Challenger, Fishes, 1880, 

 24, pi. xii (Juan Fernandez). 



Habitat. — Juan Fernandez. 



This species is known only from Gunthcr's description and 

 figure. 



7. Scorpaena plumieri. 



Rascrtcio Parra, Dif. Piezas Je' Hist. Nat., 1787, 34, pi. 18, fig. 9 



(Havana^. 

 Scorpcena plumieri Blocb, Kon. Vet. Acad. Nya. Hand'gr. Stockholm, 



x, 1789, 234 (Martinique; on a drawing by Plnmier); Blocb & 



Schneider, Systema Icbthyol., 1801, 194 (Antilles ; Giinther, Cat. 



Fisb. Brit. Mus.. ii, 1860, 113 (Jamaica ; West Indies ; South Ameiica); 



Kn r, Novara Fische, 1866, 114 (Rio Janeiro ; Jordan & Gillert, 



Bull. U.S. Fish. Comm., 1882, 108 (Mazatlan ; Jordan & Gilbert, 



Bull. U. S. Fisb. Comm., 1882, 111 (Panama); Goode & Eean, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 188?, 233 (Gulf of Mexico); Jordan & Gilbert, Proc. 



U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 377 (Panama 1 ; Jordan & Gilbert. Proc. U. S. 



Nat. Mus., 1882, 627 (Panama); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A. 



1883, 6S0 (Mazatlan); Jordan, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 137 (Key 



W est ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 109. 

 Scorpnna bnfo Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 1829, 306 



(Martinique ; Brazil ; Richardson, "Fauna Bor. Amer. Fishes, 18^9, 



800" ; Newfoundland, by error for Flnrida. 

 Scorpcp.na bufo De Kay, N. Y. Fauna Fishes, 1842, 59, pi. 70, fig. 227 



(copied). 

 Scorpcena rascacio Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 169 (Havana>;Poey, 



Syn. Pise. Cub., 18 8, 303 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 



40 (Havana); Cas(elnau, "Anim. nouv. ou rares. Amer. Sud. Poiss., 



1861, 7." 

 .' Scorpcena scrofina Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., 1833, 



465 (Brazil). 

 Apistes exul. Gosse, "Natur. Soj. Jamaica, 1856, 207" (Jamaica). 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



Habitat. — West Indies; Atlantic and Pacific Coasts of Tropical 

 America, north to Florida. 



This species was studied from specimens varying in length 

 from three to eight inches, collected at Havana and Key West, 

 by Dr. Jordan. 



The species may be known at once by the coloration of the 

 pectoral axil, which is jet black, with large white spots. 



Below is given a table of measurements of three specimens from 

 Key West. The proportions are given in hundredths of length 

 from tip of snout to the end of last vertebra : 



Extreme length of fish in inches, 8 7i 4? 



Length of fish from end of snout to last caudal vertebra, 



in inches, 6 r>3 :;i 



Greatest depth of fish (hundredths of the above), . . 34 :!4 35£ 



Greatest width of body, 28 32£ 26 



Length of head, . . . 45 48£ 46£ 



Length of maxillary, 22 23^ 22£ 



Distance from snout to orbit, . . . . . 13 13 13 



Diameter of orbit, 9 10 11 



I bight of highest dorsal spine, 16 18 19^ 



Height of highest dorsal ray, 18 16 



Length of pectoral, 36 37^ 34 



Width of pectoral hase, 19 17 18 



Length of ventrals, 31 31 30 



Height of second anal spine, 20| 21^ 2<>a 



Height of third anal spine, 18^ 19 21 



S. Scorpaena grandicornis. 



Scorpama grandicornis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 



1829, 309 (Martinique ;PoitoRico ; Havana : San Domingo); Giinther, 



Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., ii, 1860, 114 (Jamaica); Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 



1868, 303 (Havana); Poey, Enum. Pise. Cub., 1875, 40 (Havana); 



Jordan, Proc. TJ. S. Nat. Mus., 1884, 138 (Key West); Jordan, < at. 



Fish. N. A., 1885, 109. 

 Scorpcena plumicri Lacepede, Hist. Nat. Poiss., ii, 1800, 282, pi. 19, f. 



3 (not of Bloch and Schneider, based on a drawing by Plunder: 



Martinique). 



Habitat. — West Indies, Florida Ke} T s to Brazil. 



Our study of this species was made from numerous small 

 specimens, none exceeding five inches in length, collected at Key 

 West b}- Dr. Jordan, and from a large example taken at Havana. 



The species may be readily distinguished by the absence of 

 coronal spines, by the great size of the supraocular tentacles, 

 and by the small white spots in the pectoral axil. 

 27 




402 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



Below is given a table of measurements of three specimens of 

 Scorpeena grandicornis from Key West. The proportions are 

 given in hundredths of the length from tip of snout to end of 

 lasl vertebra. 



Extreme length of fish, in inches, 

 Length of fish from end of snout to 



in inches, .... 

 Greatest depth of body (hundredths 

 Greatest width of body, 

 Length of head, 

 Length of maxillary, . 

 Distance of snout from orbit, 

 Diameter of orbit, 

 Height of highest dor.sal spine, 

 Height of longest dorsal ray, 

 Height of second anal spine, 

 Height of third anal spine, 

 Length of pectoral fin, 

 Width of base of pectoral, . 

 Length of ventrals, 



last 



of the 



caudal vertebra, 

 above), 



4i 4£ 2 



3£ 3£ 1£ 



40£ 48 40 



21 22 22 



42£ 42^ 43 



20 19| 20 

 9£ 9$ 10 



10| 11 12 



21 19£ 22 

 19£ 20 17 

 23 21 24 

 20 20 20£ 

 35£ 34 35 

 20 15$ 15 

 28 29 88£ 



9. Scorpaena castor. 



Pontinus castor Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 173 (Havana); Poey, 



Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 303 (Havana); Poey, Enumeratio Pise, Cub., 



1875, 4 (Havana). 

 ? Pontinus polluxTovy , Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 174 (Havana); Poey, 



Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 300 (Havana); Poey, Enumeratio Pise. Cub., 



1875, 4 (Havana . 



Habitat. — Havana. 



We know this species only from the descriptions of Professor 

 Poey. 



The genus Pontinus seems to be synonymous with Scorpeena. 

 From Poey's description of Pontinus pollux, we are unable to 

 find any positive characters by which to distinguish it as a species 

 from Scorpeena castor. 



10. Scorpeena fernandeziana. 



Scorprma fernandeziana Steindachner, Ichthyol. Beitriige, ii, 1875, 9 

 Juan Fernandiv . 



Habitat. — Juan Fernandez. 



This species is known only from Steindachner's description. 



11. Scorpaena occipitalis. 



? Scorpeena iaermis Cuvier & Valenciennes, Hist. Nat. Poiss., iv, 1829, 

 311 (Martinique). 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



403 



Scorpc&na occipitalis Poey, Memorias Cuba, ii, 1860, 171 (Havana); 



Poey, Syn. Pise. Cub., 1868, 303 (Havana); Poey, Enumeratio, Pise. 



Cub., 1875, 41 (Havana i ; Jordan, Cat. Fish. N. A., 1885, 109. 

 Scorpcena calcarata Goode & Bean, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., 1882, 422 



(Clear Water Harbor, Florida); Jordan & Gilbert, Syn. Fish. N. A.. 



1883, 952 (West Coast of Florida). 



Habitat. — Havana ; West Coast of Florida. 



On comparison of Poey's description of S. occipitalis, with the 

 description S. calcarata by Goode and Bean, we can find nothing 

 by which to distinguish them as distinct species. 



Scorpeena inermis, very briefly described by Cuvier and Valen- 

 ciennes, resembles this species more than any other. 



The following is a list of the nominal species referred to in the 

 foregoing paper, arranged in chronological order, with our iden- 

 tification of each. Tenable specific names are printed in italics : — 



Nominal Species. Year. 



Scorj aena porcus Linnaeus, 1758. 



Scorpaena scrofa Linnaeus, 1766, 



Cottus mass lensis Forskal, 1775, 



Scorj aena plumieri Bloch, 1789, 



Scorpaena barbata Lacepede, 1800, 



Scorpaena plumieri Lacepede, 1800, 



Scorpaena lutea Riss<>, 1810, 



Scorpaena brasiliensis Cuv. & Val.. 1829, 



Scorpaena bufo. Cuv. & Val., 1829, 



Scorpaena grandicornis Cuv. & Val. 1829, 



Scorpaena inermis Cuv. and Val., 1829, 



Scorpaena scrofina Cuv. & Val., 1833, 



Scoipaena ustulata Lowe, 1840, 



Scorpaena histrio Jenyns. 1842, 



Scorpaena guttata Girard, 1854, 



Scorpaena fucata Valenciennes, 1855, 



Apistes exul Gosse, 1856, 



Scorpaena raseacio Poey, 1860, 



Scorpaena occipitalis Poey, 1860, 

 Scorpaena fernandeziana Steindachner, 1875, 



Pontinus castor Poey, 1875, 



Pontinus pollux Poey, 1875, 



Scorpaena tkompsoni Gunther, 1880, 



Scorpaena stearnsi Goode & Bean, 1882, 



Scorpaena calcarata Goode & Bean, 1882, 



Identification. 

 Scorpaena porcus. 

 Scorpaena scrofa. 

 Scorpaena porcus. 

 Scorpaena plumieri. 

 Scorpaena scrofa. 

 Scorpaena grandirornis. 

 Scorpaena scrofa. 

 Scorpaena brasiliensis. 

 Scorpaena plumieri. 

 Scorpaena grandieornis. 

 ? Scorpaena occipitalis. 

 Scorpaena plumieri. 

 ? Scorpaena scrofa. 

 Scorpaena histrio. 

 Scorpaena guttata. 

 ? Scorpaena histrio. 

 Scorpaena plumieri. 

 Scorpaena plumieri. 

 Scorpaena occipitalis. 

 Scorpaena fernandeziana. 

 Scorpaena castor. 

 ? Scorpaena castor. 

 Scorpaena thompsoni. 

 Scorpaena brasiliensis. 

 Scorpaena occipitalis. 




404 proceedings of the academy of [1885. 



December 1. 

 The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 

 Thirty-eight persons present. 



On a xohite-seeded variety of the Honey Locust. — Mr. Thomas 

 Meehan exhibited seeds of a tree of the Honey Locust, Gledit- 

 schia triacanthos, growing near Germantown, which were white 

 instead of dark olive-brown as in the normal condition. The tree 

 was of considerable age, and had evidently been hearing fruit for 

 many years. He had had, he said, many opportunities of exam- 

 ining Honey Locust seeds, but had never seen or heard of a white 

 seeded one before. The seeds instead of being narrowly ovate 

 twice the length of the breadth as usual, were nearly orbicular, 

 illustrating a point not new but worth emphasizing, that when a 

 plant varied from its parent in any one respect, it was liable to 

 have variations in others. A whole system of variations followed 

 a single departure. But the best use of this departure was to 

 illustrate a point not } 7 et perceived in its full force, as he 

 believed, that variation is not nearly as much dependent on 

 environment as many eminent men believe. "When variations 

 occur it is difficult for some to believe that cross-fertilization, a 

 return to some characteristic of an ancient parent, or some 

 accident of climate or soil had not an agency in the change. In 

 cases such as this, where there was no other shade of color to 

 cross with, no known progenitor with any variation in the color of 

 the seeds, no accident of climate or soil to influence this one tree 

 more than others growing near, it was difficult to understand 

 how anything as yet suggested could be a factor in the change. 

 We have to use yet the indefinite and meaningless expression 

 that the change was caused b} r the plant's own innate power to 

 change, an expression, which, obscure as it might be, is yet of 

 service by excluding much frojn the examination that might add 

 to the complexity of the investigation. 



Another interesting suggestion from these seeds was the 

 hereditary power which a new variation possessed. There had 

 been no time to ascertain whether these seeds would again repro- 

 duce trees with white seeds; but by analogy drawn from similar 

 departures in other plants, (here is no doubt the reproduction 

 of the variety would lie as continuous as in the best recognized 

 species. 



It could hardly be supposed thai since the first appearance of 

 the Honey Locusl on the earth, this was the first time the tree 

 had evei- produced white seeds, though he had never seen one or 

 knew of any recorded instance. In view of the hereditary char- 

 acter of these variations, it might be asked why has not some 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 405 



early white departure perpetuated and propagated itself so that 

 such trees should be quite common in this era ? The different 

 abilities of various classes of plants to propagate themselves 

 were pointed out. Of small seeds produced by such a plant as 

 chickweed, hundreds get the chance to grow. Perennial plants, 

 such as Aster, Golden Rods, also, in a general way, had great fa- 

 cilities for seed germination, hence any departure from a parental 

 form had a good chance to perpetuate itself, the only great enemy 

 being the struggle of the young living plants to get a portion of 

 the nutrition necessary for life. Hence we had many variations 

 among such genera very puzzling to naturalists, running the spe- 

 cies together so that it was only with great difficulty the species 

 of some genera could be classified. Among trees with larger seeds 

 it was difficult to perpetuate the race, and it was providential in 

 many cases that longevity was great, or the race would soon have 

 become extinct. Of the hundreds of thousands of Acorns, Chest- 

 nuts, Beechnuts, and other similar seed produced in a forest in 

 any one season, only a few score would get a chance to grow up 

 to produce seeds again. Birds, quadrupeds, and insects ate the 

 seeds by thousands, large numbers could not sprout for want of 

 a proper covering of earth. Of those which sprouted, numerous 

 were the\ T that failed to get beyond the first year ; and of these, 

 shade, or the innumerable struggles they were subjected to, per- 

 mitted them not to reach mature age. He had known Honey 

 Locust trees, single specimens, bearing fruit annually for over a 

 quarter of a century in some instances, and yet to be but solitary 

 specimens of their kind in their immediate location. As a rule, 

 the chance of a new departure perpetuating itself was small, but 

 sometimes circumstances seemed to favor the production of seed- 

 lings. Once in a while, under the trees in a Pine, Oak, Maple, or 

 other forest, or under large trees, numerous seedlings might be 

 noticed. It was only when a new departure found itself under 

 these exceptional cases, that enough trees would be produced to 

 extend and perpetuate the race, and then it was that we had to 

 recognize the distinct variety, or even species, as we often had to 

 call the departure by reason of its great distinctness from its 

 parental form. . 



Mr. Meehan referred to some recent discussions on variation 

 in Indian Corn. Cross-fertilization often made great changes in 

 the immediate coloring of the seeds. There were some who 

 argued that change comes also from innate power to vary. Such 

 instances as this of the Honey Locust confirmed this view. 




4UU PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



December 8. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



A paper entitled, " On some new species of Psocidae," by S. 

 Prank Aaron, was presented for publication. 



December 15. 



Mr. John H. Redfield in the chair. 



Twenty-five persons present. 



A paper entitled "Methods of Defence in Organisms," by Chas. 

 Morris, was presented for publication. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 407 



NOTES ON THE LAFAYETTE SERPENTINE BELT. 

 BY THEO. D. RAND. 



It is well known that two nearly parallel belts of Serpentine and 

 Steatite cross the Schuylkill above and below Lafayette Station, 

 and pass southwestwardly towards the Pennsylvania Railroad. 

 The southeasternrnost, or steatite belt, cannot be observed beyond 

 a bend in the Black Rock road, about one-half mile north of the 

 railroad, the other was conspicuous at Rosemont Station, but no 

 outcrop was known southwestward until within three-fourths of a 

 mile of Darby Creek, on Meadow Brook, whence southwestwardly 

 it was continuous, or nearly so, to Palmer's mills on Crum Creek. 



This line is not easily identified with either of the former, but 

 I have recently found a distinct outcrop on the Roberts road, on 

 the property of Col. Jos. F. Tobias, or of Dr. Edward H. Wil- 

 liams, with fragments in the soil of the fields of the former to the 

 northeast. The belt is very narrow, and the valley of a small 

 creek seems to occupy r nearly the same line.* This outcrop is 

 about half way between the Rosemont and Meadow Brook out- 

 crops, and seems to prove beyond question that the belt crossing 

 Darby Creek is the Lafayette belt. On the Roberts road, north- 

 east of the Serpentine and measured at right-angles to the strike, 

 perhaps 100 to 200 feet distant, is a rock bearing great resemblance 

 to the Eurite of Barren Hill, Wayne, etc., occupying here almost 

 exactly the position relative to the Serpentine and the Laurent inn 

 axis that the Eurite does on the northwestwardly side of the 

 Laurentian, near Radnor Station. Its strike is N. 30° E., dip 

 50° to S. E. Adjacent mica schist N. 40° E., dip 65° to S. E. 



The position of this outcrop of Serpentine somewhat south of 

 the line of the Lafayette belt, indicates either a change in the 

 strike, or the echelon structure elsewhere observable in the Ser- 

 pentine of the adjacent region. 




4<l8 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



December 22. 



The President, Dr. Leidy, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper, entitled " Inclusions in the Granite of Craftsbury, 

 Vermont," by Calvin McCormick, was presented for publication. 



Worms in Ice Prof. Leidy referred to a former communica- 

 tion on the occurrence of organisms in ice (see Proc. 1884, 260), 

 and stated that Dr. S. C. Thornton, of Moorestown, N. J., a couple 

 of weeks since, had submitted to him for examination a bottle of 

 water from melted ice, such as was habitually used in his family, 

 and in which he said he had observed living worms. A number 

 of these proved to be present in the specimen, but were all dead. 

 Having expressed a desire to confirm the statement that the 

 worms were observed alive in the fresh ice-water, Dr. Thornton 

 last week had obligingly sent him a basket of the ice. This was 

 part of the provision made nearly a year ago from the vicinity of 

 Moorestown. The ice was full of air bubbles and water drops. 

 On being melted^ number of the worms were liberated and proved 

 to be in a living and quite active condition. It is probable that 

 while imprisoned in the ice they may not have been frozen, but 

 perhaps remained alive in a torpid condition in water drops. It 

 is a remarkable fact that these animals should remain so long 

 alive in the ice, and yet die so readily in the melted water subse- 

 quently. The worms are of the same species noticed in the ice- 

 water of the first communication, and which was derived from 

 similar ice procured from a mill-pond in Delaware Co., Pa. These 

 facts would indicate that it is desirable to avoid the spongy ice 

 from stagnant waters, as being liable to retain organisms which 

 would be detrimental to us. In the clear ice, such as is served in 

 Philadelphia, no living organisms are detected. The little worms 

 of the ice appear to be an undescribed species, and may there- 

 fore be eharacterized as follows : — 



Lumbricus QLACIALIS. Worm from four to six lines long, trans- 

 lucent white, cylindrical, anteriorly acute, tapering most behind 

 and obtuse, of from 35 to 50 segments ; oral segment with a blunt 

 conical upper lip, unarmed and eyeless ; succeeding segments with 

 four rows of podal-spines, in fascicles of .three ; spines pointed 

 at the free end and hooked at the attached end, nearly straight 

 or slightly sigmoid ; generative organs occupying the interval of 

 the third and seventh spine bearing segments. 



Thickness of worm 0'15 to 0*25 mm.; podal spines 0*3 to 0*375 

 mm. long:. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



The length given in the former notice should be in lines instead 

 of millimetres. 



December 29. 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan, Vice-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-three persons present. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



A CATALOGUE OF THE FISHES OF BEAN BLOSSOM CREEK, MONROE 

 COUNTY, INDIANA. 



BY CARL H. EIGENMANN AND MORTON W. FORDICE. 



BeaD Blossom is a small creek crossing Monroe County about 

 six miles north of Bloomington. It is a tributary of White 

 River and empties into it near Gosport. Indiana. It is a rather 

 sluggish stream with gravelly bottom, and considerable grass 

 and water-weeds. The specimens were collected by parties of 

 students of the Indiana University, visiting the creek at different 

 times. Thirty-two of the species were also obtained by us on 

 the 12th of September, 1885. 



1. Ammocmtes branchialis L. Abundant in spring. 



'J. Xoturus gyrinus Mitchill. 



'■'<. Xoturus miurus Jordan. Very abundant. 



4. Xoturus flavus Rafinesque. Very common. The last two species are 



very abundant in the weeds of shallow water ; only two specimens 

 of gyrinus were obtained. 



5. Noturus exili* Ntfson. One specimen. 



6. Leptops olivaris Rafinesque. 



7. Amiurus melas Rafinesque. 



8. Amiurus natalis Le Sueur. 



9. Catostomus teres Mitchill. Very abundant. 



10. Catostomus nigricans Le Sueur. Abundant. 



11. Minytrema melanops Rafinesque. Abundant. 



12. Moxostoma macrokpidotum Le Sueur. 



13. Campostoma anomalum Rafinesque. 



14. Chrosomus erythrogaster Rafinesque. 



15. Hybognathus nuchalis Agassiz. 

 1G. Notropis whipplei Girard. 



1 7. Notropis megalops Rafinesque. 



18. Notropis ardens lythrurus Jordan. 



19. RMnichthys atronasus Mitchill. 



20. Hybopsis biguttatus Kirtland. 



21. Hybopsis amblops Rafinesque 



22. Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchill. 

 2:3. Exox vermiculatus Le Sueur. 



24. Labidexthex sicculus Cope. One specimen. 



25. Aphredodc rus say an ax Gilliams. One specimen. 



26. Pomoxys annularis Rafinesque. Very abundant. 



27. Pomoxys sparoides Lactpede. 



28. Ambloplites rupestris Rafinesque. 



29. Lepomis cyanellus Rafinesque. 




1885.] NATURAL 8CIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 411 



30. Lepomis megalotis Rafinesque. Abundant. 



31. Micropterus dolomiei Lacepede. Abundant. 



32. Boleosoma olmstedi maculalum Agassiz. Abundant. 



33. Diplcsion blennioides Rafinesque. Abundant . 



34. Percina caprodes Rafinesque. Abundant. 



35. Hadropterus phoxocephalus Nelson. 



36. Hadropterus scierus Swain. Abundant. Several specimens were taken 



five inches in length. In these large specimens the serration of the 

 preopercle is obsolete. 



37. Hadropterus aspro Cope and Jordan. 



38. Etheostoma flabellare Rafinesque. Abundant. 



39. Etheostoma cmruleum Storer. 



40. Uranidea richardsoni Agassiz. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



LIST OF FISHES COLLECTED IN HARVEY AND COWLEY COUNTIES, KANSAS. 

 BY BARTON W. KVKKMANN AND MORTON W. FORDICE. 



About the last of May, 1884, Mr. Evermann made a small col- 

 lection of fishes at Newton and Winfield, Kansas. The speci- 

 mens from Newton are from a small stream called Sand Creek, 

 which Hows into the Little Arkansas, a tributary of the Arkansas. 

 Those from Winfield were obtained from Timber Creek, a tribu- 

 tary of Walnut River, which flows into the Arkansas. 



Sand Creek was seined just below a small dam near the town 

 of Newton, where the water is clear and the bottom sandy. 

 Farther down the creek was made up of numerous pools of 

 various sizes, and with bottoms and shores more or less muddy. 



Timber Creek is a sluggish stream, with usually muddy bottom 

 and water not clear. 



We here give a list of the species represented in the collection 

 as identified by us. All are now in the museum of the Indiana 

 University : — 



1. Amiurus melas (Raf.). Found to be very abundant in Timber Creek, 



but no specimens were obtained at Newton. 



2. Moxostoma macrolepidotum (LeS.). Sand Creek. Only one specimen. 



3. Campostoma anomalum (Raf. ). Common in botb streams examined. 



I. Pii/ir/>hale8 promelns (Raf.). Eight very fine specimens (all males) were 

 gotten from a small stream which flows into Timber Creek near 

 Winfield. 



5. Pimephales notatus (Raf.). A tew specimens were obtained at Newton. 



G. Notroiris lulrensis ( Baird and Girard). Very abundant in both streams. 



7. Nolropis topeka Gilbert. Sand Creek. Only two specimens were 



obtained. 



8. Notemigonus chrysoleueus (Mitchill). Found only in Sand Creek. One 



specimen, 



9. Thcnd/ulus zcbrinus Jordan and Gilbert. This species was found to be 



common both at Newton and Winfield. 

 10 Zygonectes notatus (Raf.). A few specimens only were received — all 

 from Timber Creek. 



11. Labidesthes siccalus Cope. From Timber Creek only. Not common. 



12. Lepomis eyanellus Raf.. Abundant in Timber Creek. 



1 3. Lepomis megnlolis (Raf.). But two specimens were obtained — one from 

 Nrv, ton, the other from Winfield. 



14. Lepomis humilis (Girard). Abundant in both streams. 



15. JStheostoma cwruleum Storer. Very abundant in Timber Creek. None 



were obtained at Newton. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



The following annual reports were read and referred to the 

 Publication Committee : — 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully reports that during the 

 year ending November 30, 1885, fourteen members and one cor- 

 respondent have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received and accepted 



on the usual conditions, from J. H. Brinton, M. I)., W. S. Baker, 



Jos. C. Wright, R. B. Haines, Jr., and Jos. G. Richardson, M. D. 



The deaths of ten members and six correspondents have been 



announced, and duly recorded in the printed Proceedings. 



Thirty-four papers have been presented for publication, as 

 follows: Willis S. Blatchley, 3; Angelo Heilprin, 2; Herman 

 Strecker, 2 ; Alan F. Gentry, 2 ; S. H. Scudder, 2 ; Charles 

 Morris, 2 ; Carl H. Eigenmann and Morton W. Fordice, 2 ; S. E. 

 Meek and Robt. Newland, 2 ; Walter R. Furness, 1 ; F. Lamson 

 Scribner, 1 ; F. Warrington Eastlake, 1 ; Dr. Benj. Sharp, 1 ; 

 Leonard Stejneger, 1 ; II . C. Lewis, 1 ; W. D. Hartman. 1 ; W. B. 

 Scott, 1 ; W. N. Lockington, 1 ; Theo. D. Rand, 1 ; Morton W. 

 Fordice, 1 ; B. W. Evermann and M. W. Fordice, 1 ; B. AY. 

 Evermann and S. E. Meek, 1 ; Seth E. Meek and Edw. A. Hall, 1 ; 

 Edw. A. Hall and J. Z. A. McCaughan, 1; Charles Wachsmuth 

 ami F. Springer, 1 ; Ernst P. Bicknell and Fletcher B. Dressier, 1. 

 Twenty-nine of these have been printed in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy, two have been withdrawn by the authors, and the 

 remaining three have been reported on favorably and will form 

 part of the next volume of the Proceedings. 



Sixty -three pages of the volume for 1884, and three hundred 

 and eighty -four pages of that for the current year, have been 

 printed. The former are illustrated b}' two lithographic plates, 

 and the latter by three. 



Forty foreign societies have been added to the list of exchanges 

 during the year, increasing the number of copies of the Proceed- 

 ings sent abroad in exchange to 375. 



The average attendance at the meetings during the past twelve 

 months has been 25. Verbal communications have been made 

 by thirty-four members. The greater number of these have been 




414 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



reported by the authors and printed in the Proceedings, consti- 

 tuting an important portion of the annual volume. 



At the meeting of the Council held Nov. 23, Mr. Jacob Binder 

 was reappointed Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections. 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY. 



The correspondence of the past year shows a gratifying increase 

 in the number of societies and institutions with which we are 

 now exchanging our publications. The increase has arisen in 

 many instances at the request of the Academy, and in a certain 

 number at the solicitation of the societies. 



The opening of correspondence with societies not previousl}' on 

 our list of exchanges brings with it in time a request from them 

 for our earlier publications, more particularly the Proceedings. 

 The earlier volumes are in A-er}- limited stock, and the Corres- 

 ponding Secretary suggests the desirabilit} 7 of re-publication at 

 as early a date as the ability of the Academy will admit. 



During the year there has been but one correspondent elected, 

 who has been promptly notified of his election. Responses have 

 been received from nine correspondents, of which number eight 

 were elected in the preceding year. Three have acknowledged 

 the reception of the diploma. In a few instances official notice 

 of the death of Correspondents has been received. Usually such 

 information is obtained from the journals, and becomes part of 

 the minutes of the Academ}'. 



Letters and cards to the number of one hundred and twenty- 

 two have been received acknowledging our publications, the large 

 number being partty due to the increase before mentioned, and 

 partly to t lie early distribution of our Proceedings in parts through 

 the mnils. 



Letters of transmission numbering forty-seven have been 

 received, the sniallness of the number arising from the decreas- 

 ing number of correspondents, who from preference or necessity 

 transmit their publications through the Smithsonian Institution. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



415 



Miscellaneous letters, numbering thirteen, have been received, 

 and, when necessary, have been answered. 



The additions to the Museum will appear in the Curator's 

 report. The donors have received pr&mpt acknowledgment 

 through the Curator-in-charge, who has kindly acted for me. 



Respectfully submitted, 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



During the year ending November 30, 1885, 4100 additions 

 have been made to the library of the Academy. This is an 

 increase of 678. over the growth of last year, and of 1097 over 

 that of 1883. The accessions have consisted of 986 volumes, 

 3047 pamphlets and parts of periodicals, and 67 maps. 



They have been derived from the following sources : — 




416 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



These additions have been distributed to the several depart- 

 ments of the library as follows: — 



Journals , . 3225 



Geology, 355 



General Natural History, . . 110 



Botany 1<>0 



Conchology, 71 



Entomology, 37 



Physical Science, 23 



Anatomy and Physiology, . . 22 



Anthropology 20 



Voyages and Travels, ... 19 



Ornithology 16 



llililiography, 16 



.Mineralogy, 13 



Education, 11 



Ichthyology, 8 



Agriculture, 7 



Mammalogy, 5 



Helminthology, 4 



Herpetology, 3 



Chemistry, 3 



Encyclopedias, 3 



General Literature, ... - 2 



Medicine, 2 



Miscellaneous 25 



The year's improvement on the usual rate of increase has been 

 mainly due to the generous response made by corresponding 

 societies to our applications for exchanges and deficiencies. Our 

 efforts to increase and perfect as far as possible the Academy's 

 sets of scientific periodicals have been unremitting, with the grati- 

 fying result above noted. In compliance with our proposition 

 made more than a year ago, many corresponding societies continue 

 to send their publications promptly by mail when issued, instead 

 of as formerly once or twice a year through the Bureau of Ex- 

 change. The publications of the Academy are, of course, sent 

 in return by mail, and, although the cost of postage, amounting 

 during the past year to $117.59, is a matter of considerable 

 importance in the present cramped financial condition of the 

 society, the outlay is believed to be a most judicious one. 



Among the more important additions to the special departments 

 of the library acquired during the year have been complete sets, 

 as far as published, of Barrande's Systeme.Silurien de la Boheme, 

 Eteichenbach's Icones Flora- Germanicse,and God man and Salvin's 

 Biologia Centrali-Americana. For these, as for nearly all the other 

 important additions a pa rt from our exchanges, we are indebted to 

 the liberality of Mr. Isaiah Y.Williamson. 



The rapid increase of the library lias rendered inadequate the 

 hand catalogues of the special departments in use for many years. 

 \o matter how much space may be left for additions, it has been 

 found impossible to preserve the unbroken alphabetical arrange- 

 ment upon which their usefulness depends, while the transcripts 

 from the cards involve an unnecessary expenditure of time ami 



labor. A copy of the present card catalogue has therefore been 

 commenced with the efficient assistance of Sig. Emanuele Fronani, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



whose services I have been again enabled to avail mvself of during 

 the summer months. The entries have been made on cards of 

 the best quality manufactured for the purpose by the American 

 Library Bureau. They are perforated near the middle of the 

 lower, margin and will be held in their places in drawers or trays 

 by rods, thus avoiding the possibility of accidental disarrange- 

 ment. The chance of such an accident has made it inadvisable 

 to open for general use the present catalogue, which is complete 

 to date, as the cards are arranged in drawers without guards, and 

 any confusion of the alphabetical arrangement would make it 

 worse than useless. 



A shelf catalogue has also been commenced. This consists of 

 the briefest author and title entries of the books as the}* are at 

 present numbered and placed in the cases. This will be a neces- 

 sity- of library administration when the card catalogue is alone in 

 use for reference, as without it a great expenditure of time would 

 be necessary to determine what books may be lost or misplaced. 



I regret to say that for the same reason as that noted last 

 year — lack of means — no books have been bound since my last 

 report. The necessity for binding some of our accumulations 

 has, however, become so great that during the coming year a 

 portion of the income of the I. V. Williamson Fund will lie ap- 

 propriated for the binding of books credited to said fund. 



A detailed list of accessions is herewith submitted. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following statement from the 

 Curator-in-charge, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, as their report for the 

 year ending November 30 : 



During the past ) r ear, as in preceding }-ears, much of the work 

 accomplished' in the Museum has been voluntary — this more 

 especially in the departments of Conchology and Botan}', to the 

 special conservators of which the Academy feels itself under 

 lasting obligation. A similar obligation attaches to the labors 

 of the conservator of the Mineralogical department covered by 

 the Win. S. Vaux trust, a special report pertaining to which has 



28 




418 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



been submitted to the Council. In the department of Entomology 

 the partial services of a paid assistant, employed in joint asso- 

 ciation with the American Entomological Society, have been 

 secured. 



In departments other than those here specified the work 

 accomplished has been under the immediate direction of the 

 Curator-in-charge and his assistants who have received material 

 aid in various ways from the several Jessup Fund beneficiaries. 

 "While it is believed much has been done toward bringing the 

 collections into a relational sequence, and in the identification 

 and labeling of specimens, years of labor still remain before, 

 at the present rate of progress, the entire Museum can be brought 

 into systematic order. Nor, it appears, will the attainment of 

 this much-desired object be practicable until further and greatly- 

 increased accommodation for the proper exposition of the steadily 

 increasing collections be furnished. Reflectively, again, the 

 want of space acts as a material check to the proper development 

 of the collections, which, in the estimation of donors, can now 

 no longer be exhibited to advantage. The following extract 

 from the Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology 

 illustrates this condition: u The collections of the Academy in 

 this department are substantially the same as noted in the last 

 report. It would be easy to increase them were there ample 

 accommodations for their favorable display as objects." The 

 extensive series of rocks and fossils collected by the Second 

 Geological Survey of the State of Pennsylvania, and contained 

 in upwards of 200 cases, still remain boxed, awaiting the oppor- 

 tunity when an increase of space will permit of their classifica- 

 tion and display. 



It i> earnestly hoped that the contemplated extension, either 

 in part or in whole, of the present building, which is impera- 

 tively demanded by the needs of the institution, may be shortly 

 realized, but toward the attainment of this end assistance, other 

 than that which can be furnished by the Academy alone, is 

 necessary. The present resources of the Academy are in them- 

 selves scarcely sufficient to maintain the institution as it is now 

 situated, and much too limited to enable it to fully meet the 

 requirements of scientific investigators and investigation. A 

 Curator's fund for the liberal purchase of specimens ma\ lie 

 indicated as a growing absolute necessity, and scarcely less so a 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 419 



fund to be used for the prosecution of zoo-geographical explora- 

 tions. The interest derived from a principal fund of some 

 $50,000 to $60,000 would fairly equip annual expeditions to 

 regions that have been thus far little, or not at all, investigated 

 — Florida, the West Indies. Mexico, Central America, or Lab- 

 rador, for example — and permit of a large amount of material 

 to be collected for the use of naturalists generally. 



The special curatorial work during the past year has been 

 mainly in connection with the departments of Vertebrate and 

 Invertebrate Palaeontology and Osteology. The entire collections 

 of fossil fishes, reptiles and mammals have been brought together, 

 properly arranged and classified, and constituted into distinct 

 sections or departments. The specimens of osteology have been 

 largely identified and classified, and are now in a condition to be 

 advantageously used by the student and specialist. A special 

 collection, intended to illustrate the t^-pe forms of animal life, 

 from the highest to very nearly the lowest, designed to facilitate 

 the work of the zoological student, is rapidly approaching com- 

 pletion, although still requiring a s3 T stem of improved explana- 

 tory labeling. 



The routine work connected with the curatorial office has been 

 accomplished as heretofore, and requires no special enumeration 

 of details. The institution has benefitted during the year 

 through the services of five Jessup Fund beneficiaries, covering 

 as many distinct departments. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 



Curator-in-charge. 

 Jos. Leidy, 



Chairman Curators. 



REPORT OF THE CURATOR OF THE WILLIAM S. 

 VAUX COLLECTIONS. 



The Curator of the William S. Vaux collections respectfully 

 reports : — 



The collections are in good condition, no change having been 

 made in the arrangement except that which was rendered neces- 

 sary by the addition of one hundred and four mineral specimens, 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



which have been purchased for the collection out of the funds 

 provided for that purpose. The additions have been arranged 

 according to the system of classification adopted. 



According to the report of 1884, the mineral specimens 



numbered, ........ 6,412 



Additions purchased during the current year, ending 



Nov. 30, 1885, 104 



Total, 6,516 



Archaeological specimens (same as noted in report of 



1884), 2,940 



The Mineralogical collection has a wide reputation, and has 

 been visited by a large number of persons during the year, many 

 of them prominent mineralogists. Those who had examined the 

 collection previous to the decease of William S. Vaux, have 

 noticed the absence of a number of the most remarkable speci- 

 mens which it formerly contained and which added so much to 

 its fame. It is to be regretted that those specimens should have 

 been separated from the others, thereby decreasing its importance 

 as a mineral collection, and as a memorial of the decedent. 



The following specimens, numbering 104, have been purchased 

 during the year and placed in the collection at the aggregate 

 cost of $542.95 :— 



1884, December 1. — Four specimens of tourmaline, two gold 

 crystals, one fowlerite, cat's-eye (Ceylon), chalcopyrite, pisolite, 

 zircon (white), jasper (from the Nile), crocidolite, ruby (cut 

 spec), N. J., sapphire (purple), sapphire (white), turquoise, 

 turquoise (Persian), citron (Orange Co.), citron (pale yellow), 

 amethyst. 



1885, March 30. — One specimen of crocidolite, bastnasite, two 

 wulfenites ( New), one barite, wulfenite (red), vanadanite, anatase. 



April 20. — One specimen of hematite, chiastolite. 



April 30. — Tray of concretions. 



.May 4. — One specimen of chalcedony, chalcedony with bubble, 

 hornblende. 



May 5. — One specimen of corundum, moss agate, maconite, 

 analcine on copper, jade, beryl, diaspore on corundum, cassiterite, 

 two tourmalines (green), one lepidolite, pectolite, tourmaline on 

 cookeite. 



March 5. — Three specimens of rutile, one chiastolite. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



March 24. — Nine specimens of small diamonds. 



March 25. — One specimen of lepodolite, hornblende, staurobte. 



May 27. — Two specimens of descloisite, one vanadanite, diamond 

 on matrix, quartz (mod. crystal), calamine, smithsonite, sraith- 

 sonite (geode). 



September 10. — One specimen of quartz on hematite, azurite, 

 colemanite, leidyite. 



September 27. — Two specimens of obsidian or pearl spar, one 

 fluorite (polished), opal. 



October 13. — One specimen of apophyllite, polydelphite, dys- 

 luite. 



October 13. — Two specimens of calamine, one franklinite, zin- 

 cite, willemite, zincite, two rhodenites. 



November 9. — Two specimens of topaz, one beryl (green cut), 

 beryl (yellow cut), essonite. 



Brush's Blowpipe A nalysis and Dana's Text-book of Mineralogy 

 were purchased for the use of the Curator. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Jacob Binder, 



Curator. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



The number of meetings held during the year ending Decem- 

 ber 1, 1885, was sixteen. 



The average attendance was ten. 



The following members were elected : Dr. Horace F. Jayne, 

 Dr. J. Bernard Brinton. 



The following members resigned : Dr. Persifor Frazer, W. T. 

 Seal, Dr. J. D. Thomas, Dr. J. G. Richardson. 



The following were some of the more important communica- 

 tions brought before the Section : — 



December 15, 1884. By Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon " Homolo- 

 gies of the Vertebrate Lens.'" 



January 5, 1885. Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon " The Formation 

 of Teeth in Ancyllus." 



January 5. By Miss Fielde, upon '* The Process of Regenera- 

 tion of Parts of the Earth Worm ; " by Dr. Horace F. Jayne, upon 

 "A Process of Staining." 




422 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



January li). Lecture by Ur. G. A. Kex, " Illustrations of the 

 Genus Stilbum." 



February 16. Lecture by Dr. W. X. Sudduth, upon ''The 

 Comma Bacillus;" exhibition by Messrs. Queen & Co. of Bac- 

 teria. 



March 16. By Mr. Harold Wingate, upon " The Lens of the 

 Triton." 



April 6. By J. Bernard Brinton, upon " Opaque Mounting." 



April 20. By Dr. J. Brewer Hall, upon "A Species of 

 Ochlea." 



Ma\ 4. 15 y Dr. Benjamin Sharp, upon "The Eyes of the 

 Pecten." 



A microscopical exhibition was given to the public upon the 

 evening of Thursday, December 3. It was attended by a large 

 and appreciative company. 



Very respectfully, 



Robt. J. Hess, M. D., 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during the past year the Academy has. continued to publish 

 for the Section such papers on Conchology as have been pre- 

 sented. No new members or correspondents have been elected, 

 neither has there been any change in the by-laws. Mr. Tryon, 

 Conservator, reports as follows : — 



" During the year there has been a marked increase over any 

 recent one in the additions to our Museum. Sixty donations 

 and purchases have been received from forty-four persons. The 

 number of trays and labels added to the collection is 1484, of 

 specimens 7237- 



'The Conchological Museum now contains 43,932 trays and 

 written tablets, and 158,352 specimens. 



" A detailed list of the accessions for 1885 is hereunto subjoined. 

 (See Additions to Museum.) 



"A circular was issued early in the year soliciting collections 

 of shells from Localities not represented in our Museum. Numer- 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 423 



ous offers were received in response, and from them a number of 

 selections have been made which have greatly enriched our 

 geographical and varietal suites. The Singapore series (referred 

 to in the last annual report) has been completed by Mr. Archer; 

 Messrs. Bailey, Bed wall, Dupuy and Marie have added suites 

 from Australia and New Caledonia ; interesting collections from 

 England, France and Sicily have been received from a number of 

 collectors ; our Florida series has been greatly enlarged by an 

 important invoice from Mr. Henry Hemphill, who has spent two 

 winters in dredging on the west coast of that State, and from 

 other sources ; many other American suites and specimens have 

 been obtained, including particularly, a very fine suite of the 

 shells of Philadelphia, presented by Mr. John Ford, and exhibited 

 in our collection illustrative of Pennsylvania and New Jersey 

 natural history. 



" The additions for the year have all been labelled and mounted, 

 mainly by Mr. Frank Stout, who has very satisfactorily per- 

 formed this duty. 



" The work of redetermining and arranging the collection, 

 which goes on in connection with the publication of monographs 

 of the genera in the ' Manual of Conchology,' progresses. The 

 Cassididae, Doliidae, Ovulidae, Strombidae, Naticidae, Vitrinidae, 

 Limacidae, and a portion of the Zonitidae, have thus been care- 

 fully studied by your conservator, and the Cypraeidae by Mr. 

 S. R Roberts. 



" In the last report attention was called to the overcrowding of 

 the shell cases, as seriously interfering with the exhibition of all 

 the species to the public. Having recently secured the assistance 

 of Mr. Wm. B. Marshall, an enthusiastic student of conchology, 

 your conservator has been able to commence the realization of 

 plans, long since matured, b} r which this overcrowding will be 

 remedied. All duplicates will be removed from the cases to the 

 drawers under them, where they will be rearranged to constitute 

 what may be called the Geographical Collection, illustrative of 

 the distribution and variation of the several species. Part of the 

 space thus gained in the cases will be occupied by colored 

 figures (from the l Manual of Conchology ') of all the species of 

 which we have no specimens. These figures, mounted and 

 labeled like the specimens, will, together with the latter, repre- 

 sent all the species and varieties of shells and mollusks known to 




4_' » PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Bcience, so far as they have been figured. In addition to these, 

 a third, to be known as the Synoptical Collection, and introduc- 

 tory to thr others, is intended to contain representatives of all 

 tin' recent, and the most important of the fossil genera and sub- 

 genera, with printed labels, including the name, description, 

 distribution, synonymy, etc. Figures of the animals, lingual 

 dentition and other details are being added to make this series 

 more complete. 



•• Enough lias been accomplished to give a fair idea of the 

 practical working of these plans; to complete them will require 

 the Labor of perhaps ten or twelve years. 



"To enumerate them in order, the Conchological Cabinet of 

 the Academy will consist of five distinct series or collections, so 

 arranged as to facilitate comparison from one to another, yet 

 each fully equipped for separate study, as follows : 1, Synoptical 

 Collection, contained in table cases; 2, Alcoholic Collection, in 

 wall cases (recently rearranged by Mr. Marshall); 3, Systematic 

 Collection, in table cases; and in the drawers under these, 4, 

 Geographical Collection, and 5, the Swift Collection, given to 

 the Academy upon condition that it be kept intact." 



The officers of the section are : — 



Director, . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Vice-Director , . . John Ford. 



Recorder, S. Raymond Roberts. 



Secretary, . . . John H. Redfield. 



Treasurer , . . Win. L. Mactier. 



Conservator, . . George W. Try on, Jr. 



Librarian, . . . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Respectfully submitted, by 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Recorder, 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Recorder of the Entomological Section respectfully 



reports thai nine meetings of the Section have been held during 



the |>:ist year. An increased interest in the proceedings of the 



tion has been shown by a larger average attendance at the 



meetii 




188f).] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 42r> 



One member has been elected. 



A synopsis of the Section meetings is published by the 

 American Entomological Society, in connection with its 

 Transactions. That society still continues the publication of the 

 entomological articles presented to it, and has printed thirteen 

 of the same during the past j r ear, amounting to 300 pages, with 9 

 plates. 



The papers published and their authors are as follows : — 



Short studies of North American Coleoptera, by John L. 

 LeConte, M.D. (posthumous). 



A study of some genera of Elateridae, by George H. Horn, 

 M.D. 



On the North American Asilidae, Part II, by S. W. Williston, 

 M.D. 



On the systematic position of some North American Lepidop- 

 tera, by John B. Smith. 



A study of the species of Cryptobium of North America, by 

 George H. Horn, M. D. 



Studies among the Meloidae, by the same. 



Descriptions of new North American Scarabaeidae, by the same. 



Contributions to the Coleopterology of the United States, by 

 the same. 



On the species of Canthon and Phanseus of the United States, 

 with notes on other genera, by Frederick Blanchard. 



Descriptions of some new Cerambycidaa, with notes, by George 

 H. Horn, M.D. 



Synopsis of the Throscidae of the United States, by George H. 

 Horn, M. D. 



A monograph of North American Chrysididae, by S. Frank 

 Aaron. 



On the earlier stages of the Odonata, b}* H. A. Hagen, M. D. 



In addition, shorter papers on Cynipidse, by W. H. Ashmead, 

 have appeared in the Proceedings. 



The collections in the cabinets have received more attention 

 during the past year than for some time previous. A great part 

 has been thoroughly arranged and labeled where needed. Also 

 a thorough process of disinfection has gone on, and the cases 

 cleared of all troublesome matter. That this work might be 

 better done, the American Entomological Society employed a 




426 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1885. 



custodian during nine months of the year, at a small compensa- 

 tion, to attend to the same. 



A number of accessions to the cabinets have been received 

 this year, from Messrs. R. H. Stretch, E. M. Aaron, S. F. Aaron, 

 W. H. Ashmead, J. S. Johnson, and James Behrens. Many of 

 these additions are rare, or new to the collections. 



The officers elected for the ensuing year are as follows : — 



Director, .... George H. Horn, M. D. 



Vice-Director, . . . Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Recorder, . . . J. H. Ridings. 



Treasurer, . . . E. T. Cresson. 



Conservator, . . . Henry Skinner, M. D. 



Respectfully submitted, 



J. H. Ridings, 



Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Vice-IMrector of the Botanical Section of the Academy 

 respectfully reports that the section continues its steady progress 

 as in former years. 1687 species of phanerogamic plants and 

 vascular cryptogams were added to the Herbarium last 3'ear, of 

 which 395 were new to our collection; 395 species of lichens and 

 fungi were also received. A complete count of the species in the 

 Herbarium has been made and found to foot up 25,413, of which 

 all but about 3075 are named and in place. These are exclusive 

 of Fungi and Lichens. The details of the donations will be 

 found in the Conservator's report attached. 



The section is wholly free from debt, and has a balance of one 

 hundred and seventy-six dollars in its treasury. We have lost 

 the services of our late Recorder, Mr. F. L. Scribner, who has 

 removed t" Washington, to a wider sphere of usefulness. 



Meetings ha \ e been held at every stated period during the year, 

 and valuable contributions t<» botanical knowledge have been 

 made by Messrs. Meehan, Redfield, Elothrock, Scribner, Brinton, 

 Burk, Canby, Hoopes, and A. H. Smith — some of which, fully, or 

 in brief, have been published in the Proceedings of the Academy. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 427 



The officers elected for the coming year are : — 



Director, . . . W. S. W. Ruschenberger, M. D. 



Vice-Director , . . Thomas Meehan. 



Recorder, . . . Charles Schaeffer, M. D. 



Treasurer, . . . Isaac C. Martindale. 



Cor. Secretary, . . Isaac C. Martindale. 



Conservator, . . John H. Redfield. 



Submitted, 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



Conservator' 's Report for 1885 Since the last annual report, 



the Conservator has completed the provisional lists of species 

 contained in the Herbarium, so far as refer to the phanerogamic 

 orders and the vascular cryptogams. These lists are strictly 

 provisional and temporary, intended to facilitate ready access to 

 the contents of the Herbarium, and in no way to take the place 

 of such careful revision as is greatly needed, but which must 

 necessarily require much time, and more careful studj r than can 

 now be bestowed. It is greatly to be desired that the same work 

 should be continued in the lower cryptogamic orders, and it may 

 not be amiss here to suggest to those of our associates in the 

 Microscopical Section who are directing their attention to the 

 structure of these lower forms of vegetable life, that here is an 

 excellent opportunity to utilize in systematic work the technical 

 training they have received. 



So far as the lichens are concerned, this work has been accom- 

 plished by our fellow member, Dr. J. H. Eckfeldt, who has not 

 only catalogued the species of that order contained in the Her- 

 barium, but has also contributed largely to supplying deficiencies. 



The enumeration of the phanerogamic species contained in the 

 Academy's Herbarium, which was referred to in the last report, 

 has been completed, and the result is, . . 24,268 species. 

 To this add Ferns, Lycopods, Equisetacete, Mar- 



silise and Isoetese, ...... 1,145 



Total phanerogams and vascular cryptogams, 25,413 

 Approximating very closely to the estimate in the last report. 



The attention to the proper mounting of the specimens in the 

 Herbarium has been continued, with the efficient aid of Mr. 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Burk. A large part of the new accessions have been mounted, 

 and the same work lias been prosecuted in the North American 

 Herbarium, of which now about one-half has received this care, 

 so necessary to the permanenl preservation of the specimens. 



The donations received during the year amount to 1687 species 

 of phanerogams and ferns, and 383 species of lichens and fungi, 

 in all 2070 species. Of the former, 395 species are new to our 

 Herbarium, while probably a large part of the fungi and lichens 

 arc also new to us. The total number of species presented is less 

 than in sonic former years, but it will be seen that the proportion 

 »f rim- accessions is not materially diminished. Of the 2070 

 species received 1360 are North American, 37 South American, 

 and 667 are from the old world. 



Among the donations we may specify the valuable contribution 

 of exotic plant- received from Dr. Asa Gray of the Cambridge 

 Herbarium; a series of 365 species collected by Mr. Meehan in 

 Western North America in 1883; and a valuable collection of 388 

 species of S. African, Australian and European plants from Mr. 

 Win. M. Canby. 



A complete list of the donations accompanies this report, and 

 will appear in its proper place in the list of Additions to the 

 Museum. 



John H. Redfield, 



Conservator. 



REPORT OF THE MINERALOGICAL AND GEO- 

 LOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section of 

 the Academy of Natural Science would respectfully report that 

 meetings of the Section have been regularly held, but that owing 

 to the absence of active members, and other causes, the attend- 

 ance has not been as large as in former years. Considerable 

 accessions to the cabin el have been made — a number of desirable 

 specimens having been purchased with the funds of the Section. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 420 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATK 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology respectfully 

 reports, that during the year he has delivered a course of twenty- 

 seven lectures (with practical demonstration) on paleontology, 

 which, as heretofore, has been attended largely by teachers of the 

 various city schools. A special course on geology, arranged at 

 the request of the Teachers' Institute of Philadelphia, was also 

 delivered in the Hall of the Academy, as a continuation of a similar 

 course given before the same body in the spring and autumn of. 

 1884. The attendants at these lectures numbered between 100 

 and 150. Both courses of instruction in the class-room were 

 supplemented by a number of field excursions in the region about 

 Philadelphia, ranging to Orange, N. J., and the Atlantic coast, 

 and by a twelve days' trip to the Valley of the Upper Delaware. 



The collections of the Academy in the department of Inverte- 

 brate Paleontology have received no very material accessions 

 during the 3 r ear; special mention may be made of a beautiful 

 slab of crinoids, from the Carboniferous Limestone of Iowa, gen- 

 erously given to the Society b} T Mr. Charles Wachsmuth, whose 

 important papers on the Paleocrinoidea, prepared in conjunction 

 with Mr. Springer, are being published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. 



Through a re-arrangement of the collections contained in the 

 Museum opportunity has been afforded for the proper arrange- 

 ment and display of the collections illustrating European paleon- 

 tology, which have up till now been largely inaccessible and 

 placed in drawers. The proper identification and labeling of 

 species will, however, be a matter of time. 



Very respectfully, 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Prof, of Invertebrate Paleontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF* INVERTEBRATE 



ZOOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Zoology respectfully reports 

 that during the past year he has delivered a course on some of 




430 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



the Principles of Zoology, consisting of about twenty (20) 

 lectures. 



He further reports that the collections under his charge have 

 somewhat increased, the increase not being as great as that of 

 the previous year. 



The principal donation was a collection of Echinoderms, pre- 

 vented by Mr. John Ford. 



A few crustaceans were presented by Mr. C. McCormick. 



A course of ten lectures will be given in the spring of the 



coming year (April and May), the subject being, " Special 



Senses." 



Very respectfully, 



Benjamin Sharp, 

 Professor of Invertebrate Zoology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF ETHNOLOGY AND 

 ARCHAEOLOGY. 



I have the honor to report that during the year 1885 a course 

 often lectures was delivered in the hall of the Academy, on the 

 ethnology and archaeology of America. They were illustrated 

 with maps, drawings, and by means of specimens obtained from 

 the various collections within the rooms of the Academy. The 

 lecture hall was usually well filled, and quite as much interest 

 was manifested X>y the audience as could be expected from the 

 nature of the topics discussed. 



The collections of the Academy in this department are sub- 

 stantially the same as noted in the last report. It would be easy 

 to increase them, were there ample accommodations for the 

 favorable display of objects. 



Respectfully, 



D. G. Brinton, M. D., 

 Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZBY, 



TREASURER, 

 For the Year ending Nov. 30, 1885. 



Dr. 



To Initiation Fees S 100 00 



" Contributions | semi-annual contributions i 1635 76 



" Life Memberships 400 00 



'' Admissions to Museum 264 59 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 8 00 



' ' Publication Committee 525 55 



" Fees, Lectures on ''alseontology 68 00 



" " " "Mineralogy 83 00 



" " " "Ethnology 48 50 



" " " "Zoology 6 00 



" Duplicate Books ' 2 00 



" Biological Section I for gas) 50 00 



" Miscellaneous 97 24 



" Correction of Proof (B. Sharp 3 60 



" Interest from Mortgage investment,.! oshua T. Jeanes' 



Legacy 1000 00 



" Wilson Fund. Toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 355 00 



" Barton Fund. " " " 240 00 



" Life Membership Fund. " " " 165 00 



" Maintenance Fund. " •' " 155 00 



" Eckfeldt Fund. " " " 125 00 



" Stott Legacy Fund. " " " 100 00 



" Maintenance Fd. Transf. by resolution of Academy 1013 14 



" Life Membership Fd. " " " " " 1500 00 



" Book Fund. " " " " " 3 13 



" Instruc. and Lee. Fd. " " " " " 86 65 



" Interest 16 25 



$8351 41 



Cb. 



By Balance overdrawn per last account ... S1238 44 



" Salaries, Janitors, etc 3236 62 



" Freight 43 50 



" Repairs 85 67 



" Insurance 55 00 



" Printing and Binding Proceedings, etc 1055 36 



" Plates and Engravings 71 75 



" Printing and Stationery 92 40 



" Trays and Cards 71 47 



" Postage 195 26 



" Mounting Swan . . : 5 00 



" Coal 55 00 



"Gas 88 77 



" Glass Jars and Vials 77 97 



" Subscription to U. S. Publication 2 00 



" Water Rents, 1885 33 35 



" Miscellaneous 452 20 



" Dr. D. G. Brinton. Fees from Lectures 48 50 



" Prof. H. C. Lewis. " " " 83 00 



" Prof. A. Heilprin. •' " " 68 00 



" Life Memberships transferred to Life Membership 



Fund 400 00 



$7459 26 



Balance, General Account , 892 15 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



By Balance per last statement $ 277 28 



For Books 220 05 



Transferred to General Account, toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 



$797 33 

 Income from Investments 525 00 



Halance overdrawn 1272 33 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



By Investment, Bond and Mortgage $1500 00 



Transferred to General Account 165 00 



$1665 00 



To Balance per last statement S1000 00 



Interest on Investments 165 00 



Life Memberships transferred to this account 400 00 



1565 00 



Balance overdrawn ^100 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Proceedings.) 



Interest on Investments 240 00 



Transferred to General Account 240 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Assistance of Students.) 



Balance per last statement 620 01 



Interest on Investments 560 00 



1180 01 

 Disbursed 946 00 



Balance S234 01 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Balance per last statement 1013 14 



Interest on Investments 155 00 



$1168 14 



By Investment, Lehigh Valley Coal Co.'s Bonds K1013 14 



Transferred to General Account 155 00 



1168 14 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



[ncome from Investments $ 355 00 



Life Subscriptions to Proceedings and Journal .... 225 00 



$580 00 

 Transferred to General Account 355 00 



Balance for Investment $225 00 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Income from Investments $ 125 Oil 



Trail-In t. ,1 to I General Account 125 00 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 433 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $2094 65 



Rents Collected 994 90 



Ground-rents Collected 872 02 



Cash received. Principal of yearly ground-rent for 52/^ 

 Dollars. E. S. Mount Holly Street, 30 feet north of 



Dickinson St $875 00 



Seventy days' Interest at 5 per. cent 9 63 



Notary's Acknowledgment 1 00 885 63 



$4847 20 



For Books $2105 56 



Taxes and Water-rents 195 43 



Repairs to Properties 378 92 



Collecting 93 34 



Miscellaneous 57 45 



2830 70 



Balance $2016 50 



$1750.00 of the above balance to be re-invested. 



INSTRUCTION AND LECTURE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 142 70 



Miscellaneous $56 05 



Transferred to General Account 86 65 



142 70 



MUSEUM FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 5 00 



Income from Investments 50 00 



$55 00 

 VAUX FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $ 477 30 



Income from Investments 600 00 



$1077 30 



Minerals $550 63 



Miscellaneous 14 59 



565 22 



Balance on hand $512 08 



Mrs. STOTT FUND. 



Income from Investment $ 100 00 



Transferred to General Account 100 00 



BOOK ACCOUNT. (Jos. Jeanes' Donation.) 



Balance per last Statement $ 37 13 



Books $34 00 



Transferred to General Account 3 13 



37 13 



29 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



HENRY N. JOHNSON FUND. 



By Cash paid Collateral Inheritance Tax $1089 70 



" " Refunded Penna. Co. for Ins. on Lives, etc., overpaid 



in settlement 35 50 



" " Expenses Attending the Settlement of Est. H. N. 



Johnson, dec'd 12 03 



" " trading side-walk in Upsal St 167 37 



" " Repairs to Properties 518 25 



" « Collecting 37 69 



$1860 54 

 To Cash received Penna. Co. for Ins. on Lives, etc., in 



Settlement of Est. II. N. Johnson, dec'd $859 93 



" Rents Collected 618 80 



" < ; round-rents Collected 94 50 



" Mortgage Interest and Tax collected 40 50 



" Six months' Int. on $1000 Lehigh Valley's Bonds. ... 25 00 



1638 73 



Balance due by Academy $221 81 



The election of Officers, Councillors, and Members of the 

 Finance Committee, to serve during 1886, was held, with the 

 following result : — 



President, 

 Vice-Presidents, 



Recording Secretary, 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Treasurer, 



Librarian, 



Curators, 



Councillors to serve three 

 years, .... 



Finance Committee, 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Thomas Meehan, 



Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



George H. Horn, M. D. 



Wm. C. He'nszey. 



Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Jacob Binder, 



W. S. W. Ruschenberger,M. D., 



Angelo Heilprin. 



Thos. A. Robinson, 



Edw. Potts, 



Isaac C. Martindale, 



Theo. D. Rand. 



Isaac C Martindale, 



Aubrey H. Smith, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



George Y. Shoemaker, 



Wm. W. Jefferis. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 435 



ELECTIONS DURING 1885. 



MEMBERS. 



January 27. — Mrs. Cornelius Stevenson, J. Addison Campbell, 

 Burnett Landreth. 



February 2Jf. — Charles Ilarrod Vinton, M. D., Hen^ Leffman, 

 M. D., S. Frank Aaron, Edward Longstreth. 



April ^.—Philip Laurent, Rev. J. R. Danforth, D. D. 



November 24- — Charles S. Dolley, M. D., Chas. N. Davis, John 

 H. Campbell, W. D. Averell, W. G. A. Bonwill, M. D. 



CORRESPONDENT. 



May 26. — Antonio de Gregorio of Palermo. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



ADDITIONS TO MUSEUM. 



Ethnology and Archeology. — A. L. Siler. Netting from Pueblo 



ruins, Utah. 

 M. Huffnagle. Mummy (and accessories) of the XIX dynasty, collected 



by Dr. Charles Huffnagle (on deposit). 

 Mrs. Thomas Say. Leather stockings worn by Wm. Maclure. 



M v m M \ i.i \ ( lucent and Fossil). — H. C. Chapman. Skeleton of elephant. 

 S. F. Aaron. Lei>us callotis (skull and skin), Texas ; Spermopliilus gram- 



murus? (skin), Texas. 

 G. Raphael. Blarina? Beverly, N. J. 

 \\ . \Y. Jefferis. Tooth of fossil horse, Orange Co., Fla. 

 Florida Land and Improvement Co. (J. J. Dunne). Fragments of manatee 



bones, Manatee River, Fla. 



Birds. — S. F. Aaron. 16 trays of eggs of North American birds. 



T. G. Gentry. 181 nests of North American birds. 



Zoological Society of Philada. Cyanoeorax chrysops, Brazil ; Micrathene 



Whitneyi. 

 T. L. Harrison. A collection of North American birds (no stated localities). 

 M. J. Middleton. Hooded merganser and whistling swan, Chesapeake 



Bay. 

 J. H. Carr. Impeyan pheasant, India. 

 W. H. Jones. Aulacorhamphus albovitta, A. fmmatopygius, Sturnella sp. ? 



Cotinga maynana 'and Tanugra lunulata, from Colombia, S. A. 



Reptiles (Recent and Fossil). — H. C. Chapman. Ceratophrys comuta, 

 Surinam ; Ungalia muculata, Diadophis rufescens, Hyla septentrional is, 

 Hylodes planirostris ; Anolis Sagrcei and A. principalis, Nassau, New 

 Providence. 



W. W. Jefferis. Carapace of Ohelydra serpentina, Lenni Dam, Pa. 



Fishes (Recent and Fossil). — R. D. Casterline. Two specimens from the 

 Green River Shales (Eocene), Wyoming. 



W. Dougherty. Fistularia tabaccaria. 



Purchased. 45 species of fishes from the southern and western waters of 

 the United States, collected by D. S. Jordan and S. E. Meek. 75 bottles 

 of fishes from the waters of the southern and western United States, col- 

 li H.-d by I). S. Jordan and S. E. Meek. 



Mm ; i bca. — Rafael Arango. 7 species marine shells from Cuba, etc. 



S. Archer. 1"> s species marine shells, Singapore. 



J. F. Bailey. 19 trays marine shells from Australia. 



W. T. Bednall. 11 species marine shells from Australia. 



W. G. Binney. Helix germana, Santa Cruz, Cal. ; Helix Levcttei, Santa 

 Fe Canyon, New .Mexico. 



Rev. W. M. Beauchamp. 10 species fresh-water shells from the State of 

 New York. 



.1. .1. Brown. 2 species fresh-water shells from the Bermudas and Bahamas. 



II. F. Carpenter. Amnicola grana, near Providence, R. I. 



11. C. Chapman. 8 species marine shells from the Bahamas. 



Conchological Section (by purchase). 97 species shells new to the collec- 

 tion, many types ; 4S species of marine, land and fresh-water shells from 

 Sicily; 72 species marine and fresh-water shells from Australia, Cape of 

 Good Bope, [ndia, etc. ; 100 trays land, marine and fresh-water shells 

 from France, collected by M. Bidard ; 16 trays land and l'resh-\\ ater 

 shells from Missouri, collected l>\ < >. A. Crandall ; 175 species land, 



marine and fresh-water shells from England, collected by H. Crowther; 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 437 



78 species of land and fresh-water shells, principally from New Caledonia, 

 collected by G. Dupuy ; 10:3 species of land, marine and fresh-water 

 shells from France, collected by A. Granger ; 217 species of land, marine 

 and fresh-water shells from Florida, collected by H. Hemphill ; 38 species 

 of land shells from France, collected by M. Locard ; 39 trays land and 

 fresh-water shells from Asia, Africa, Tasmania and New Caledonia, col- 

 lected by E. Marie ; 42 species marine shells from Florida, collected by 

 M. A. Mitchell ; 137 trays land and fresh-water shells from France, col- 

 lected by Lieutenant Wattebled. 



John Ford. 8 trays of marine shells from Rhode Island and Massachu- 

 setts ; suite of land and fresh-water shells from Philadelphia county, Pa. ; 

 Helix Stimpsoni ; Teredo naralis, in ebony wood from Macassar, Java ; 

 Pholas truncata and P. crispata from Sea Isle City, New Jersey ; 5 species 

 marine and fresh-water shells from Narragansett Bay, etc. ; Melo Indica; 

 Hippopus maculatxs and Trochus pica ; Littorina irrorata Say (young) 

 and Modiola plicatula Lam. from Atlantic City, New Jersey. 



Dr. F. M. Hamlin. 2 species marine shells from Bermuda. 



Dr. Hartmann. 5 photographs of type species of Pai-tul*. 



Benton Holcomb. 11 species of land and fresh-water shells from 

 Connecticut. 



F. W. Hutton. 11 species marine shells, New Zealand. 



W. W. Jefferis. Helix pomatia and Helix hortensis from Heidelberg. 



C. W. Johnson. Columbella avara, G. lunata and Odostomia impressa 



from Florida. 

 C. R. Keys. Sphcerium sphmricum Anth. from Kennedy's Lake, Iowa. 



G. W. Lichtenthaler. 23 species marine shells from the Sandwich Islands, 

 Alaska, etc. ; Sphmrium sulcatum Lam. from Salem, Oregon. 



C. R. Orcutt. Lymnea humilis Say from Todas Santos Bay, California. 



H. L. Osborn. 31 species marine shells from Beaufort, N. C. 



G. Howard Parker. Sphcerium striatum Lam., Ridley Creek, Delaware 

 Co., Pa. 



H. A. Pilsbry. Ghindlachia Meekiana, Rock Island, 111. 



J. B. Quintard. 3 species of fresh-water shells from Silver Lake, Kansas. 



J. H. Redfield. Pecten Magellanicus, Mt. Desert, Maine ; Littorina Uttorea, 

 Martha's Vineyard, Mass. 



U. C. Smith. Pholas truncata, Anglesea, N. J. 



Hon. F. E. Spinner. TJnio Buckleyi Lea, Lake Monroe, Fla.; Planorbis 

 glaoratus Say, St. John's River, Fla. 



R. E. C. Stearns. 4 species of marine and fresh-water shells, from Cali- 

 fornia, Tehuantepec and Peru . 



L. H. Streng. Purpura hcemastoma, Panama ; Nerita fulgurans, Nicaragua; 

 TJnio nasutus and Physa intcgra, Michigan ; 2 fresh-water species from 

 Vancouver Island. 



G. Test. Egg capsules of Fulgur canaliculars, from Sea Isle City, N. J. 



J. H. Thomson. 7 species of land and fresh-water shells, from Merida, 

 Yucatan, and New Mexico ; Helix alauda Fer., Cuba. 



Henry A. Ward. Glove woven from the byssus of Pinna pernula, Medi- 

 terranean Sea. 



Wm. Wheeler. Cyproza angvstata and C. edentula, from Algoa Bay, South 

 Africa. 



J. Willcox. Egg cases of Fulgur />erversus, Tampa Bay, Fla., and of 

 Fasciolaria, Charlotte Harbor, Fla.; Vivipara lineata Val., and Unio 

 fuscatus Lea, Orange County, Fla. 



Invektebrata (recent, exclusive of mollusks). — J. Ford. Echinanthus 

 rosaceus and Heoma ventricosa, Elbow Key, Fla.; Meoma ventricosa, 

 Nassau, New Providence; Asterias ochracea, Santa Cruz, Cal.; Stron- 

 gylocentrotus purpuratus ? California ; Oreaster, Nassau ; Meyenia 

 Lcidyi, Philadelphia. 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



H. C. McCook. A collection of Cicada architecture. 



G. Giinther. A collection of insects, Buenos Ayres. 



C. Test. Balanus eburneus, Sea Isle City, N. J. 



J. B. English. Serpula dianthus, Barnegat Bay, N. J. 



G. J. Corson. Serpuloid worm burrows, Morris Cove, N. J. 



C. MiCormick. Xanthodes nitidula and Apus longicaudatus, Texas ; Gelasi- 



mus pugilator, Atlantic City, N. J.; Ixodes, sp.'? Texas. 

 E. Potts. Pectinatella. 



In \ imibrata (Fossil). — J.Ford. Orthis testudinaria, from New York 

 and Ohio. 



W. W". Jefferis. Casts of Venus, Miocene of James River, Va. : a collection 

 of Silurian and Carboniferous fossils from the west. 



J. Wilcox. A collection of fossils, partly chalcedonized, from Tampa Bay, 

 Fla. (Oligocene?) 



C. McCormick. Acidaspis tuberculatus, Bushkill, Pa.; Phaeops Logani, 

 Dingman's Ferry, Pa. « 



Chas. Wachsmuth. Slab containing Crinoids. Carboniferous of Marshall- 

 town, Iowa. 



Florida Land and Improvement Co. (J. J. Dunne). Conorbis, n. sp. (prin- 

 ceps), Oligocene, of Manatee River, Fla. 



Plants (Recent). — Prof. Thomas C. Porter, Lafayette College, Easton, 

 Pa. Uolosteum umbellatum L., from Harrisburg, Pa. 



Mrs. Maria L. Owen, Springfield, Mass. 7 species rare plants, from Nan- 

 tucket, Mass., and an abnormal form of Kalmia latifolia L., from Deer- 

 field, Mass. ^ 



Dr. J. W. Eckfeldt^hila. 160 species Lichens from Scandinavia, Austria, 

 Hawaian Islands and N. America, all named and mounted, of which 

 91 are new to the collection. 



Wm. M. Canby, Wilmington, Del. Isoetes melanospora Engelm., Stone 

 Mt., Ga., new to the collection; 388 species fiom Europe, 8. Africa and 

 Australia, of which 77 are new to the collection. 



Dr. Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass. 217 species from China, Formosa, Siam, 

 S. Africa, Australia, S. America and United States, of which 76 are new 

 to us. 



Prof. N. L. Britton, Columbia College, N. Y. 17 species Cyperacese, from 

 Texas, of which 4 are new to us ; Also Montia Howellii, Washington 

 Territory. 



J. B. Ellis, Newfield, N. J. 14th and 15th centuries of N. American 

 Fungi. 



Thos. Meehan,- Phila. 365 species collected by him in 1883, in Western 

 Colorado, Utah, California and Nevada, of which 13 are new to the col- 

 lection ; 21 species, mostly cultivated exotics, of which 17 are new to us. 



Mrs Fanny E. Briggs, La Center, Washington Terr., through Thomas 

 Meehan. 51 species, collected by her in Washington Terr. 



California Academy of Natural Sciences, by Rev. E. L. Greene and Mrs. 

 Mary K. Curran, Curators. 24 species of rare California plants, of which 

 18 are new to the collection. 



Isaac C. Martindale, Camden, N. J. 5 species plants from western North 

 America, of w hich 3 are new to us. 



Isaac Burk, Philadelphia, Helianthus gig aniens L. Helianthus (doubtful 

 sp.). Senecio tomentosus, from Cape May, N. J., and 19 species from 

 ballast deposits at Kaighn's Point, mostly of South American origin, 

 of which 6 are new to the collection. 



Mis. Flora E. Haines, Bangor, Me. Petasites palmata Gr., from near 

 Bangor, Me. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



Aubrey H. Smith, Phila. Silphiurn perfoliatum L., and Gordonia pubescent 



L'Her., with its fruit, from Bartram's Garden, Phila. 

 Dr. Emil Bessels, Washington, D. C. 13 species arctic plants, collected 

 on Voyage of Polaris in July, 1872, Lat. 81°-82° K, and Long. 61° W. 

 J. Donnell Smith. Baltimore, Md. 26 species from southern United States, 



of which 3 are new to us. 

 John H. Redfield. 67 species from western X. America, of which 56 are 

 new to us. 

 299 species, collected by C. G. Pringle, in Arizona and Iowa, in 1884, 

 of which 114 are new to the collection. 

 16 species N. American grasses, mostly from Florida, of which 6 are 

 new to us. 

 143 species, collected by him on N. England coast, mostly from Maine. 

 Friesia refracta Klatt, Cult., new to us. 



Plants (Fossil). — J. Ford. 5 trays coal plants, Schuylkill Co., Pa. 

 L. H. Lighthipe. A collection of fossil plants and plant impressions, from 

 the Cretaceous clay of Woodbridge, N. J. 



Rocks and Minerals. — W. W. Jefferis. Dog-tooth spar, Mineral Point, 

 Wis. ; magnetic sand, Lake Champlain ; iron pyrites, changing into 

 limonite, Berks Co., Pa. ; corundum, Chester Co., Pa. ; fossiliferous 

 limestone, Cincinnati ; iron pyrites, E. Whiteland, Pa. ; Silurian lime- 

 stone, Ohio ; blende and galena, Cumberland, England ; quartz, from 

 dolomite of Poorhouse Quarry, Chester Co., Pa. ; quartz, from Lewis 

 Co., N. Y. ; gneiss and limestone, from Van Arsdalen's quarry, Pa. ; 

 leu cite, from Vesuvius ; quartz. Hot Springs, Ark • calamine, pseudo- 

 morph after calcite, Mineral Point, Wis.; granular qmrtz, Dixon's, Del. ; 

 corundum, Newlin, Pa. ; pyroxene, Burgess, Can. ; garnet, Lancaster, 

 Mass. ; fiuor spar, Philadelphia ; massive garnet, Birmingham, Pa. ; 

 granite, Triassic shale, no loc. ; Potsdam sandstone, Gouverneur, N. Y. ; 

 lignite, Bonn, Germany ; amygdaloidal melaphyre, Oberstein, Germany ; 

 melaphyre, Hettstadt, Germany ; trachyte, Siebengebirge, Germany ; 

 lithographic slate, Bavaria ; toadstone, Newburyport, Mass. ; buhrstone, 

 Paris, France ; amygdaloid, Round Hill, Mass. ; blue quartz, Chester 

 Co., Pa. ; schist with magnetite (loc. ?) ; wavellite, E. Whiteland, Pa. ; 

 blue quartz, East Creek, N. Y. ; actinolite, Delaware Co., Pa. ; hema- 

 tite, Bernisof; mica slate. Warren, N. H. ; corundum (altered), New 

 Lynn, Pa. ; hornblende, apatite and sphene. Rossie, N. Y. ; limonite, 

 Algeria : muscovite, Pennsburg, Pa. ; museovite, Chandler's Hollow, 

 Del. ; hornblende, Russell, N. Y. ; cadmiferous blende, Wilkenradt ; 

 pyrite, smithsonite and sphalerite, Mineral Point, Wis. ;. quartz, Media, 

 Pa. : polyadelphite, Franklin, 1ST. J. : red-spotted porphyry, Lynn, Mass. ; 

 polyadelphite and rhodonite, Franklin, N. J. ; corundum in Indianite, 

 Delaware Co., Pa. : danburite iloc. ?) ; talc, East Bradford, Pa. ; phlo- 

 gopite, Rossie, N. Y. ; phlogopite, Burgess, Can. ; talc, Rochester, N. 

 H. ; radiated mica and damourite, Chester Co., Pa. ; cerussite, Mineral 

 Point, Wis.; calcite. Bilbao, Spain; rutile and dolomite, Chester Co., 

 Pa. ; scapolite, Bolton, Mass. ; almandine, Dixon's, Del. ; tourmaline, 

 Tin msand Islands. 



D. S. Martin. Carrara marble bored by sponge, Long Island ; marmolite, 

 Hoboken, N. J.: crust from Saratoga "Geyser Spring;" crust from 

 "Champion Spring," Saratoga; Eozoon rock, Thurman, N. Y. 



S. E. Hudson. Lignite, from Egg Harbor, N. J. 



J. Ford. Fossiliferous pebbles, Fairmount Park, Pa. 



I. Lea. A series (51 trays I of Triassic rocks and organic impressions from 

 Pennsylvania ; a series (35 trays) of rock fragments and plant remains 

 from the Permian, Trias and Lias of Alsace-Lorraine and south- 

 western Germany, named in part by Prof. Schimper. 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Dr. Rice. Wollastonite, Maitinsburgh, N. Y. 



J. M. Hartman. Hematite, Jaragua, Chili ; hematite, Jefferson Co., Ala. ; 



quartz, iron, and copper pyrites, from Concord, N. C. ; do, from Rima 



Mine, N. C. ; do, from Rowan Co., N. C. ; gold, Concord, X. C. 

 S. E. Paschall. Fossiliferous Triassic shale, Phcenixville, Pa. ; Triassic 



shale, with calamites, Bucks Co., Pa. 

 J. Eyerman. Stibnite, Mount Kosang, Japan. 

 J. C. Sanderling. Gold gangue (loc?) 

 A. W. Dickson. Coal (with "eyes"), Kingston, Pa. 

 T. D. Rand. Chromite, Radnor, Pa., quartz, Chester Co., Pa.; trap column, 



from C'onshohocken dike, Wayne, Pa. 



D. B. Bruncr. Chabazite, Fritz's Island; do. from Reading, Pa.; datho- 

 lite and brucite, Reading, Pa.; aragonite, Berks Co., Pa.; apophyllite, 

 thomsonite, calcite, and mesolite, Fritz's Island, near Reading, Pa. 



S. Tyson. Chabazite, Fritz's Island, Pa.; apophyllite, Reading. 

 A. O. Deshong. Zoisite, Leiperville, Pa. 



E. W. Pine. Quartz geode, Keokuk, Iowa. 



H. C. Lewis. Cuprite, Frankford, Pa.; calcite, Wheatley Mine, Pa.; 

 genthite, Lafayette, Pa.; hypersthene gabbro, Mt. Hope, Md. 



L. Woolman. Erythrite, Wheatley Mine, Phcenixville, Pa.; Triassic 

 shale, with plant impressions, Phcenixville, Pa.; milky quartz, Over- 

 brook, Pa. 



C. U. Shepard. Lazulite, Georgia; asbestiform bronzite, Pelham, Mass.; 

 keatingine, Ft. Sparta ; elroquite, Elroque, W. I.; phosphorite, Spain; 

 indianite, Pelham, Mass.; wilsonite, templeton and uralite, Conn.; 

 antillite (loc.?); pelhamine, Pelham, Mass.; keatingine, Franklin, N. J.; 

 monite, Island of Mona ; monetite, Island of Moneta ; staurolite, Morgan- 

 town, Ga. ; staurojjfe, S. Car. 



L. Garrison. Clinton ore. S. Pittsburgh, Pa. 



C. McCormick. Granite, with nodular mica, Craftsbury, Vt.; Clinton 

 shale, with glacial striae, and Hudson River slate, Delaware Water Gap, 

 Pa.; uranotil (?) and autunite, from Avendale quarries, Pa. 



G. H. Parker. Glaciated pebbles, clay, etc., from the glaciated region near 

 Boston, Mass.; autunite and torbernite (?), Avendale quarries, Pa. 



W. H. Schiveley. Cryolite, siderite, and galena, Ivigtut, Greenland. 



M. A. Walsh. Concretions formed in ferruginous gravel, of Perry ville, N. J. 



E. J. Wheelock. Slickensided shale (Triassie). Newark, N. J. 



C. Brock. Eocene rock, Eutaw Springs, S. Car. 



J. W. Pike. Pebbles from fossiliferous gravel of New Jersey. 



H. C. Chapman. Shale, with fossil leaves, Wyoming ; fragment of fossil- 

 iferous boulder, Mt. Desert. 



.Mineralogical and Geological Section, A. N. S. Hornblende, Renfrew Co., 

 Can.; pyroxene, var. Jeffersonite, Sussex Co., N. J.; obsidian, near Pinas, 

 Mexico; kyanite, Norwich, Conn.; stilbite, Nova Scotia; quartz in 

 limonite, New York; apophyllite and stilbite, Frankford, Pa.; wer- 

 nerite. Susses Co., N. J. 



Purchased. Elaeolite (var. nephelite), Magnet Cove, Ark.; nephelite, 

 Lobau, Saxony. 



In Exchange. Kyanite, Black Horse, Del. Co., Pa.; orthoclase, albite 

 with beryl, hyalite, and beryl, Avondale, Del. Co., Pa. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1885. 



Abbott, C. A naturalist's rambles about home. New York, 1885. 



The Author. 



Ackermann, Karl. Bestimmung der erdmagnetischen Inklination von 



Kassel. 



Kaefer. Hersfield, 1870. The Author. 



Agassiz. Embryology of the Ctenophorae. Cambridge, 1874. The Author. 



Alabama, Geological Survey of. Report of progress for 1876, by Eugene 



A. Smith, Ph. D. The Author. 



Allgemeine Naturkunde H. 1, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ancey, M. C. F. Contributions a la Faune Malacologique Indo-Tibetaine. 



The Author. 



Andre, Ernest. Les Fourmis. Paris. The Author. 



Alfonso X, Rey de Castilla. Libros del Saber de Astronomia. Tomi 



I-TV, Y. 1, Madrid. Folio. Royal Academy of Madrid. 



Alumni Association of the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy. 24th 



annual report. Philadelphia, 1885. The College. 



Archiac, Yicomte de, and Jules Haime. Description des Animaux fossiles 



du Groupe Xummulitique de Tlnde, I. Paris, 1853. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ashburner, Charles A. The geology of natural gas in Pennsylvania and 



New York, 1885. 



The product and exhaustion of the oil regions in Pennsylvania and 



New York, 1885. The Author. 



Astor Library. 36th annual report of the trustees for the year 1884. New 



York, 1885. The Trustees. 



Baillon, H. Dictionnaire de Botanique, 17me and 18me Fasc Paris, 1885. 



Traite de Botanique medicale phanerogamique, 2d Fasc. Paris, 1884. 



I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Bail stow, S. D. Natural History Notes from South Africa. The Author. 



Ball, V. Report on the Museums of America and Canada. The Author. 



Barrande, Joachim. Systeme Silurien du Centre de la Boheme, Vol. I and 



suppl. 2 vols, text and 2 vols, plates ; vol. II, 6 vols, text and 5 vols. 



plates ; III, 1 vol. text and plates ; Y, 2 vols, plates ; VI. 4 vols. 



plates ; 22 vols, 4to. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bary, A. de. Comparative Anatomy of the Vegetative Organs of the 



Phanerogams and Ferns. Translated and demonstrated by F. O. 



Bower and D. H. Scott. Oxford, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bayley, Wm. H. The Opportunities of the Medical Profession. 



Trustees of the University of New York. 



Becker, Geo. F. Geology of the Comstock lode and the Washoe district, 



with atlas. Washington, 1882. Department of the Interior. 



Belgium. Musee Royal d'Histoire Naturelle de Belgique, Service de la 



carte Geologique du Royaume. Explication des feuilles de Modave, 



Virton, Ruette, Lamorteau, Landen, St. Trond, Heers. Bruxelles, 



1884. The Museum. 



Bell, H. C. P. The Maldive Islands. Colombo, 1883. 



Ceylon Branch of Royal Asiatic Society. 



Bellardi, Luigi. I Molluschi dei terreni terziari del Piemonte e della Liguria. 



Parte IV. Torino, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Berg, C. Quindecim Coleoptera Nova Faunae Republican Argentina}. 



Buenos Aires, 1885. 



Quindecim Lepidoptera Nova Faunae Republican Argentina et Uru- 



guayensis. Buenos Aires. 

 La Metamorfosis. Buenos Aires, 1884 




442 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Reptiles y Anfibies del Tandil y de la Tinta. Buenos Aires, 1884. 

 Rhinocerophis Nasus (Garm.), Bothrops Ammodytoides (Leyb.). 

 Questioned sinonimicas sobre una vibora de la fauna Argentina. 

 Buenos Aires, 1885. The Author. 



Berlese, Abbe. Monograph of the genus Camellia. Boston, 1838. 



In exchange. 

 Fungi Moricolse Itonografia e descrizione dei funghi parassite del 

 Gelso. Padova, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bertolini, Ant. Flora Italica, Vols. I-X. Bononise, 1833-1854. 



Jos. Jeanes. 



Bland, Thos. Obituary notice of. John H. Redfield. 



Blish, W. G. The Gyroscope and the top. The Author. 



Bolton, H. C. A Catalogue of scientific and technical periodicals, 1665 to 



1882, together -with chronological tables and a library check-list. 



'2 vols. Smithsonian Institution. 



Bombici, L. Sulle superficie elicoidi e paraboloidi nei romboedri detti selli- 



formi di Dolomite e di altri Carbanati suidri. 1885. 



Corso di Litologia. Bologna, 1885. The Author. 



Borre, A. Preudhommc de. Note sur les Julides de la Belgique, 1884. 



Tentamen Catalogi Lysiopetalidarum. The Author. 



Bourguignat, J. R. Helix arionidees des regions orientales de L'Afrique. 



Paris, 1885. 



Notice prodromique sur les mollusques terrestres et fluviatiles recueillis 



par M. Victor Giraud dans la region meridionale du Lac Tanganika. 



1885. The Author. 



Brauner, John C. The Poror6ca, or bore, of the Amazon. The Author. 



Brinton, Daniel G. The Taensa grammar and dictionary. 



The lineal measures of the semi-civilized nations of Mexico and Cen- 

 tral America. 

 The chief God of the Algonkins, in his character as a cheat and liar. 



The Author. 



lii itish Museum. Catalogue of the birds in the British Museum. Vol. X. 



London, 1885. The Trustees. 



Guide to the collection of fossil fishes in the department of Geology 



and Palaeontology. British Museum (Nat. Hist.). London, 1885. 

 Guide to the galleries of Mammalia (Mammalian, Osteological Ceta- 

 cean) in the department of Zoology of the British Museum. 1885. 

 Boulenger's Catalogue of the Lizards in the British Museum. Second 



Ed., Vol. I. Geokonidse, etc. London, 1885. 

 Flower's List of the specimens of Cetacea in the Geological depart- 

 ment of the British Museum. London, 1885. 

 Iiydekkar's Catalogue of the Fossil Mammalia in the British Museum. 

 Part I. London, 1885. The Trustees. 



Brocchi. Traite d'ostreiculture. Paris. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bronn, II. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thierreichs. 5er Bd., II Abth., 

 l:;, 14, 15 L. ; 6er Bd., I Abth., 4 Lief. ; 111 Abth., 44-47 L. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Brooklyn Library. 27th annual report. March 26, 1885. Bulletins Nos. 



The Trustees. 



Browne, II. J. The higher branch of science, or materialism refuted by 



facts. Melbourne. The Author. 



Briihl, Carl Bernhard. Zootomie aller Thierklassen. Atlas. Lief. 31, 32 



and 33. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Brusina, Spiridione. Sastanak Ornitologa i Izbozba Ptica u Becu Napisa. 



Zagieb, 1884. 



Die Neritodonta Dalmatiens und Slavoniens nebst allerlei malakologi- 



M Bemerkungen. Frankforta. M. The Author. 



Bucquoy, I'.., Ph. Dautzenberg and (.. Dollfus. Les Mollusques Marines 



du Roussillon. Fasc. 7-9. Paris, 1885. I. Y. Williamson Fund. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 443 



Bureau of Education. Circulars of information. Nos. 1, 2, 6 and 7, 1885. 

 Teachers' Institutes. Washington, 1885. 

 Historical sketch of the universities and colleges of the United States. 



1883. Department of the Interior. 

 Bureau of Ethnology. 2d annual report to the secretary of the Smith- 

 sonian Institution, 1880-81. Washington, 1883. The Bureau. 



Another copy of same. The Smithsonian Inst. 



Busch, Katharine J. Additions to the shallow-water Mollusca of Cape 

 Hatteras, N. C. New Haven, 1885. The Author. 



Buza, Janos. Kultivalt Novenyeink Betegsegei. Budapest, 1879. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Science. 

 California State Mining Bureau. 3d and 4th annual reports of the State 

 Mineralogist, for the year ending June 1, 1883. 

 First annual catalogue of the State Museum, 1882. 

 Catalogue. Vol. 2. 1885. 



Catalogue of books, maps, etc. May 15, 1884. Henry G. Hanks. 



Call, R. Ellsworth. Contributions to a knowledge of the fresh-water 



Mollusca of Kansas. Ill and IV. Fresh-water Bivalves. 



Description of a new species of Unio from Kansas — Contributions to a 



knowledge of the fresh-water Mollusca of Kansas. The Author. 



Cameron, Peter. A monograph of the British Phytophagous Hymen- 



optera. Vol. 2. (Ray Society, 1884.) London, 1885. 



Wilson Fund. 



Canada. Geological and Natural History Survey and Museum of Canada. 



Report of Progress, 1882-83-84. Montreal, 1885. Maps, 34 sheets 



in roll. The Survey. 



Esquisse geologique sur le Canada. Par W. E. Logan et T. Sterry 



Hunt. 1855. 

 Descriptive catalogue of a collection of the economic minerals of 



Canada and of its crystalline rocks. 1862. 

 Summary reports of progress, 1st May, 1869 ; 2d May, 1878. 

 Notes on the gold of eastern Canada. 1864. 

 A geographical, agricultural and mineralogical sketch. 1865. 

 Laurentian Limestones of North America. 1871. 

 Philadelphia International Exhibition, 1876. Descriptive catalogue of 



a collection of the economic minerals of Canada. 1876. 

 Mesozoic Fossils, I, 2, 1879. 

 Comparative vocabularies of the Indian Tribes of British Columbia. 



Montreal, 1884. 

 Map of the Dominion of Canada, 1842-1882. In two sections. 



The Survey. 

 Canestrini, Johann. Acari Myriopoda et Scorpiones hucusque in Italia 

 reperta. Cheronetides Italici, fascic. I and III. Padova, 1885. 

 Prospetto del l'Acarofauna Italiana. Padova, 1885. The Author. 



Carnana, A. A. Recent discoveries at Notabile. Malta. 1881. 



Report of the Phoenician and Roman antiquities in the group of the 



Islands of Malta. Malta, 1882. 

 Discovery of a tomb-cave at Ghain Sielem, Gozo, in June, 1884. 



Geo. W. Tryon. Jr. 

 Carriere, Dr. Justus. Die Sehorgane der Thiere. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cams, Victor. Prodomus Fauna' Mediterranean. Pars I. Stuttgart, 



1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Casey, Thos. L. Revision of the Stenini of Amerii-a north of Mexico, 



1884. The Author. 



Castel, Don Carlos. Memoria premiada con el ac<:esit por la Real Aca- 

 demia de Ciencias sobre el tema ' ' Determinar el valor intrinseco de 

 las materias curtientes 6 astringentes referido al del tanino pro- 

 ducido." Madrid. 1879. Royal Academy of Madrid. 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Castiglioni Luigi. Viaggio negli Stati Uniti dell 'America Settentrionale 

 negli aimi 1785, "86 and '87. Milano, 1790. J. H. Redfield. 



Catalogue de la Collection Geologique du Semur, 1884. 



The Society of Natural and Historical Science of Semur. 

 Catalogue of the scientific books in the library <>f the Royal Society. Part 



I. Transactions. The Society. 

 Census of the United States, 1880, Report ; vols. VIII and IX. 



Report on the mortality and vital statistics of the United States, I. 



Washington, 1885. The Department of the Interior. 



Certes, A. De l'emploi des matieres colorantes dans l'etude physiologique 



tt histologique des infusories vivants. Paris, 1885. The Author. 

 Challenger Expedition. Report on the scientific results of the voyage of 



II. M. S. Challenger during the years 1873-76. Botany, I ; Zoology, 

 IX, text and plates, X, XI ; Narrative of the cruise, I, 1, 2. 



J I. B. Majesty's Government. 

 Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, Treasury Department. Quarterly reports 



Sept. 30, Dec. 31, 1884, and Nos. 3 and 4. Washington. 



Treasury Department. 

 Chief of Engineers, U. S. A. Annual report for the year 1884. In four 



paits. AVashington, 1884. War Department. 



Chief of Ordnance. Annual report to the Secretary of War for the fiscal 



year ending June 30, 1884. Washington, 1884. War Department. 

 Choffat, Paul. Description de la Faune Jurassique du Portugal. Mol- 



lusques, Lamellibranches. Lisbon, 1885. 

 Recueil de Monographies strati«raphiques sur le Systeme Cretacique 



du Portugal. Lisbon, 1885. I. The Author. 



Claus, C. Elementary text-book of zoology. Translated by Adam Sedg- 

 wick, M. D. 2 vols., 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cohn, F. Kryptogamen Flora von Schlesien. Ill, 1. 



Beitriige zur Biologie der Pflanzen, IV, I. Breslau, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Collet, John. Department of Geology and Natural History, Indiana. 



14th annual report. John Collet, State Geologist. The Survey. 



Collin, Jonas. Om Limtjordens tidligere og nuvserende Marine Fauna 



med sajrligt hensyn til Bloddyrl'aunsen J The Author. 



Colonial Museum and Laboratory, New Zealand. 19th annual report, 



together with a list of donations and deposits during 1883-84 ; and 



the 15th annual report on the Colonial Botanic Garden, 1883-84. 



Reports of Geological Explorations, 1883-84; Meteorological Report, 



1884. New Zealand. The Museum. 



Commissioner of Agriculture. Report for the year 1884. Washington, 



1884. The Department. 



( inn missioners on Inland Fisheries. 19th annual report for the year ending 



December 31, 1884. Boston, 18S5. The Commissioners. 



Commissioners of the State Bureau of Labor Statistics. Report on the 



Industrial, Social and Economic Conditions of Pullman, 111., Sept., 



1JS84. The Commissioner. 



Commissioner of General Land Office. Annual reports for the vears 1870, 



1872, 1873, 1874, 1875, 1878, 1880-1884. Department of the Interior. 

 Commission zur wissenschaftlichen Untersuchung der deutschen Meere 



in Kiel. Vierter Bericht fur die Jahre 1877 bis 1881 ; VII bis XI 



Jahrg. HI Abth. Berlin, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Committee on Building Stone to the Board of Capitol Managers of the 



State of Colorado. Report. July 3, 1884. The Committee. 



Connecticut. C. U. Shepard's report on the geological survey of, 1837. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Comptroller of the Currency. Annual report. Dec. 1, 1884. Washington. 



The Treasury Department. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



Cooper, J. G. On fossil and subfossil land shells of the United States, 

 with notes on living species. The Author. 



Cope, E. D. Paleontological Bulletin, No. 40. 



On the evolution of the vertebrata, progressive and retrogressive. 



The position of Pterichthys in the system. 



The Lemuroidea and the Insectivora of the Eocene period of North 



America, 1885. 

 The Amblypoda, 1885. 



Twelfth contribution to the Herpetology of Tropical America. 

 On a collection of fishes and reptiles from Monterey, Nuevo Leon, 



Mexico. 

 The relations between the theromorphous reptiles and the monotreme 



mammalia. 

 The Batrachia of the Permian beds of Bohemia and the Labyrintho- 



dont from the Bijori group (India). 

 Geology and Paleontology. The White River beds of Swift Current 



River, Northwest Territory. 

 Marsupials from the lower Eocene of New Mexico. 

 The Loup Fork Miocene in Mexico. 

 The Mammalian Genus Hemiganus. 

 Marsh on the Dinocerata. 



Geology and Paleontology (Notes from the Am. Naturalist, Jan., 

 1885). The Author. 



Corthell, Elmer L. The Interoceanic problem and its scientific solution. 



The Author. 

 Czerniavskyo, V. Materialia ad Zoographiam Ponticam Compaiatam. 

 Fasc. II. Crustacea Decapoda Pontica Littoralia. 1884. 



Scientific Society of the University of Kharkov. 

 Daday, Jeno A. Magyar Allattani Irodalom Ismertetese, 1870 tol 1880-ig 

 bezarolog eredeti forrasok alapjan. Budapest, 1882. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 

 Dall, W. H. Notes on some Floridian land and fresh-water shells, with a 

 revision of the Auriculacea of the Eastern United States. 



The Author. 

 Dagincourt, Dr. Comptoir geologique de Paris. Catalogue detaille. 

 Paris, 1885. 

 Annuaire geologique universel et guide du geologic The Author. 



Dalton, J. C. Topographical Anatomy of the Brain. 3 vols. Phila- 

 delphia, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dames, W. and E. Kayser. Paleontologische Abhandlungen. 2er Bd., 

 H. 4 und 5. Berlin, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dana, James D. Papers on the Quaternary in New England, including 

 the glacial and. fluvial phenomena, or the drift, and terraces. 8vo. 

 New Haven, 1884. 

 Oriu in of Coral Reefs and Islands. The Author. 

 Danielli, Jacopo Dr; Iperostosi in mandibole Umane, specialmente di 

 Ostiacchi ed anche in Mascellari superiori. Firenze, 1884. 



The Author. 

 Dawson, George M. On the superficial deposits and glaciation of the 

 district in the vicinity of the Bow and Belly Rivers. The Author. 

 Department of Agriculture. Reports 18T2, 1873 and 1874. 



Bureau of Statistics. Report Nos. 15-17. The Department. 



Delessert, B. Icones selectse plantarum. 5 vols., fol. Paris, 1820-46. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Deloguc, C. H. Flore Cryptogamique de la Belgique. I, Muscinees. 

 2me fasc. Mousses. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Diaz, Agustin. A brief report, on the organization, objects and develop- 

 ment of the works of the Geographical Exploring Commission in 

 the Republic of Mexico. New Orleans, 1885. The Author. 




146 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Diez, Manuel. Estxidiar los alimentos que consume la clase labradora y 

 los braceros en algunas de las Provincias de Espafia. Madrid, 1879. 



Royal Academy of Madrid. 

 Doderlein, P. Manuale Ittiologico del Mediterraneo. Bibliografia Ittio- 

 logica, partes 1, 2 and 3. Palermo, 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dubois, Alph. Revue critique des oiseaux de la famille des Bucerotides. 

 Revue des oiseaux observes en Bel»ique. 1885. 



Remarques sur les Alouettes du genre Otocorys. The Author. 



Hunker, K. W. Memorial, mit einem Verzeiehniss der Arbeiten desselben. 



A. von Koenen. 



Encyclopaedia Britannica. Oth Ed., vols. 18 and 19. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



I.mvclopaedie der Naturwissenschaften. I Abth., 39-43 L. ; II Abth., 



2fi-31 L. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Erichsou, W. F. Naturgeschichte der Insekten Deutschlands. le Abth., 



Coleoptera, 3er Bd. ; 2e Abth., 2e Lief. ; 6er Bd., 3e Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 



Ernst, A. El Guachamaca. Caracas, 1885. The Author. 



Ewald, J., J. Roth and W. Dames. Leopold von Buch's gesammelte 



Schriften. IV, 1, 2. Berlin, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Fairmount Park Art Association. 13th annual report, 1885. The Trustees. 



Farlow, W. G. Notes on a fungus parasitic on species of Potamogeton. 



Notes on some species of Gymnosporangium and Chrysoinyra of the 



United States. The Author. 



Faxon, Walter. Descriptions of new species of Cambarus, to which is 



added a synonymical list of the known species of Cambarus and 



Astacus. Dec, 1884. The Author. 



Fielde, A. M. A pronouncing and defining dictionary of the Swatow 



dialect, arranged according to syllables and tones. 4to. Shanghai, 



1883. The Author. 



Fischer, Dr. Paul. Manuel de Conchologie. Fasc. 8 and 9. Paris. 



The Author. 



Forbes, H. O. A naturalist's wanderings in the Eastern Archipelago. 



1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Forel, August. Vorlaufige Mittheilung iiber den Ursprung des Nervus 



, acusticus. 



Etudes niyrmecologiques en 1884 eten 1885. The Author. 



Forel, A. & B. Onufrowicz. Weitere Mittheilung iiber den Ursprung des 

 Nervus acusticus, etc. The Authors. 



Frazer, Persifor. Archaean Palaeozoic contact near Philadelphia, Penna. 

 Crystallization, 1885. 

 Trap dykes in the Archaean rocks of southeastern Pennsylvania. 



The Author. 

 Fritsch, Ant. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation 

 Bohmens. II, 1. Prag., 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Garman, S. On the use of polynomials as names in zoology. 1884. 



The Author. 

 Garrison, F. The microscopic structure of iron and steel. Philada. 



The Author. 

 Gaudry, M. A. Sur les Hyenes de la grotte de Gargas, d^couvertes par 

 M. Felix Regnault. 

 Nouvelle note sur les Reptiles permiens. 1885. The Author. 



<Miit)i. F. A.andG. vom Hath. Ubcr Vanadate und Jodsilber von Lake 

 Valley. Donna Anna County, New Mexico. 

 On the Vanadates and Iodyrites from Lake Valley, Sierra County, 

 New Mexico. The Authors. 



Geyler, Berm. Theo. Palaeontologie, Geographie (Bibliography). 



The Author. 

 Godman, F. Ducane, anrl Osberl Balvin. Biologia Centrali Americana 

 Zoology, Parts 1-XXXIX ; Botany, Parts I-XVIII. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. I IT 



Goppert, H. R. Der Hausschwamm, seine Entwickelun? unci seine 



Bekiimpfung. Breslau, 1885. I. jf. Williamson Fund. 



Goodale, George Lincoln. Gray's Botanical Text^Book. 6fcb edition. 



Vol. H. Physiological Botany, [.*■ I. Y. Williamson Fund. 



Goonetilleke, Wm. Panini's eight books of grammatical Sutras. Edited 



with, an English translation and commentary, I, 1. Bombay, 1882. 



Royal Asiatic Society, Ceylon Branch. 

 Goss, N. S. Catalogue of the birds of Kansas. 1883. 



Kansas Historical Society. 

 Gould, John. The birds of New Guinea, XV-XIX. 



Supplement to the Trochilidte, or Humming Birds. Part IV. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Graff, L. Uber einige Deformitiiten an fossilen Crinoiden. Cassel, 1885. 



The Author. 

 Grandidier, Alfred. Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagas- 

 car. Vol. 1., Atlas, lie Parti. ■. 8e fasc. Vol. 12, T. 1, Texte and 

 T. 2, Atlas. Ire Partie. Paris, 1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Grasset, J. P. A. Index Testaceorum viventium. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Gray, Asa. Memorial of George Bentham. 



Botanical contributions. The Author. 



Photograph of bronze bas-relief of. Pi of. Sargent. 



Gregorio, A. de. Fauna di S. Giovanni Ilarione. Parisiano. Fasc. I. 



Palermo, 1880. 



Alle gia allieve del Corso di Scienze fisiche, chimiche e naturali dell 



educatorio Whitaker durante Tanno 1881. 

 Sulla fauna delle Argille Scagliose di Sicilia. Palermo, 1881. 

 Coralli Giuresi di Sicilia. 1882. Parts I, II and IH. 

 Coralli Titoni, ci di Sicilia. 1882. 

 Fossili dei dintorni di Pachino. Palermo, 1882. 

 Una gita sulle Madonie e sull' Etna. Torino, 1882. 

 Su talune specie e forme nuove degli Strati terziari di Malta e del Sud 



est di Sicilia Conchiglie. 1882. 

 Elenco di Fossili dell' Orizonte a Cardita Jouanneti Bast. 1883. 

 Intorno al Pecten pictus Sow. non Goldf. 1883. 

 Moderne Nomenclature des Coquilles. Palermo, 1883. 

 Nuovi Fossili terziari. 1883. 



Nota intorno ad alcune nuove conchiglie mioceniche di Sicilia. 1883. 

 Studi su talune Ostriche viventi e fossili. I and II. 1883. 

 Sulla ( ostituzione di una Societa geologica Internazionale. 1883. 

 Sur les Pecten excisus Pusch et Bronn et Pyxidatus Brocc. et Born, 



1883. 

 Intorno ad alcuni nomi di Conchiglie Linneane, 1884. 

 Intorno al Triton Tritonis L. Sp., 1884. 

 Nuovi decapodi Titonici, 1884. 



Une nouvelle Pleurotoma du Miocene de l'ltalie, 1884. 

 Una nuova Cyprgea plocenica, 1884. 



Fossili titonici (Stromberg Schichten) del Biancone di Rovere di velo. 



Nota sul rilevamento della Carta Geologica di Sicilia. The Author. 



Griesebach, A. Die Vegetation der Erde nach ihrer klimatischen Anord- 



nun«-, 2e Aufl. I und II Bd. Leipzig, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Grimes, Stanley J. Geonomy : Creation of the Continents by the Ocean 



Currents. Philadelphia. 188"). The Author. 



Gruber, Lajos. Utmutatas Foldmagnessegi Helymegha tarozasokra. 



Budapest, 1883. Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 



Gruber, Wenzel. Beobachtungen aus der menschlichen und ver^leichenden 



Anatomie. V. Berlin, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gumbel, Wilhelm H. Geologie von Bayern. I. Theil. Grundziige der 



Geologic Kassel, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Gundlach, Juan. Contribution a la Entomologia Cubana. Habana, 1881. 



The Author. 

 Guiberson, S. P. Collection of North American Land Shells. 



G. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Guzman, David J. Apuntamientos sobre la Topografia fisica dc la Repub- 

 lica del Salvador, compreniendo su historia natural, sus produce iones, 

 industria, comercio e inmigracion, climas, estadistica, etc. 



The Autbor. 

 Haeckel, Ernest. A visit to Ceylon. 2d Am. Ed., 1883. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hanson, H. J. Zoologia Danica. 4e H., 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hartig, Robert. Der achte Hausschwamm. (Merulius lachrymans Fr.) 



Berlin, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hartman, Wm. D. The Seventeen-year Locust (Cicada septemdecim). 



The Author. 

 Hauer, Max. Das Eozoon Canadense. 1885. Text and Atlas. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hebert, M. Sur les tremblements de terre du Midi de l'Espagne. 



The Author. 

 Hamlin, Augustus C. Leisure hours among the gems. Boston, 1884. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Haushofer, R. Franz von Kobel. The Royal Bavarian Academy. 



Hazslinszky, Frigyes. A Magyar Birodalom Zuzmo — Floraja. A Kir. 



MagyarTeimeszettudomanyiTarsulat Megbizasabol. Budapest, 1884. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Sciences. 

 Heilprin, Angelo. Town Geology, 8vo. Philadelphia. 1885. The Author. 

 Henshaw, S. List of the Coleoptera of America, North of Mexico, 1885. 



Entomological Section. 



Herrick, C. L. Geol. and Nat. Hist. Surv. of Minnesota. A final report on 



the Crustacea of Minnesota included in the orders Cladocera and 



Copepoda. Minneapolis, 1884. John H. Redfield. 



Hildebrandssou, H. H., and Brito Capello, Rappart au Comite meteorulo- 



gique international. The Authors. 



Hilgard, E. W. The old tertiary of the Southwest, 1885. See Lousiana 



and Mississippi. The Author. 



Hinde, G. Description of a new species of Crinoid, with articulating 



spines. The Author. 



Hirschwald, Dr. Julius. Das Mineralogische Museum der Kng. teohnischen 



Hochschule, Berlin. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



His, W. Anatomic menschlicher Embryonen. III. Kmbryonen bis Ende 



des 2em Monats. Leipzig. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hock, F. Die nutzbaren Pflanzen und Tiere Americas mid der alten 



Welt. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hoernes, R. & II. Auinger. Die Gasteropoden der Meeres-Ablagerunuen 



der ersten und zweiten miocanen Mediterran-Stufe in der oestereieh- 



isch ungarischen Monarchic Wien. 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Hofmann, J. Flora des Isar-Gebietes von Woll i atshausen bis Deggend* nf. 



1883. I Botanical Society of Landshut. 

 Hogard, Henry. Carte croquis et coupes pour servir a l'explication dc la 



constitution g^ologique des Vosges, is4(i, Planches. Isaac Lea. 



Holmbenr, E. L. La Sierra da C'ura-Malal (Currumalan). Buenos Aires, 



1884. The Author. 

 Hooker, J. D. The Flora of British India. Part XII. 1885. London, 



513-7*0. The Eas1 tnd. Government. 



Hoyle, Wm. E. On Loligopsis and some other genera. 



Diagnoses of new species of Cepholopoda collected during the cruise 



of H. M. S. Challenger. Part I. The Octopoda. 

 Brief notice of the "Challenger" Cephalopoda. Tin A.uthor, 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



Howitt, A. W. Supplementary notes on the Diabase rocks of the Buchan 



District. Royal Society of Victoria. 



Hutton, F. W. Revision of the marine Taenioglossate and Ptenoglossate 



Mollusca of New Zealand. 

 Revision of the recent Lamellihranchiata of New Zealand. 

 The origin of the Fauna and Flora of New Zealand. The Author. 



Hyrtl, Dr. Jos. Das arabische und hebriiische in der Anatomic Wien., 



1879. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Icones Selectae Hymenomycetum nondum delineatorum. Vols. II, VII, 



VIII, IX and X. Schwedish Academy of Sciences. 



India. Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Palaeontologia Indica. 



Ser. IV, vol. I, pt. 4 ; Ser. X, vol. Ill, pts. 5 and 6 ; Ser. XIII, vol. 



I, 3, 4, 5 ; Ser. XPV, vol. I, 3. Calcutta, 1884-5. 

 Memoirs, 8vo, XXI, Nos. 1-4. 



Records. Vol. XVII, part 4- Vol. XVIII, part 3. The Survey. 



Informe que la Commission para el estudio de los medios Mas Adecuados 



para la destruccion de la Langosta Rinde a la Secretaria de Fomento. 



Mexico, 1883. Secretary of Works, Mexico. 



Israels, A. H. and C. E. Daniels. De Verdiensten der Hollandsche 



geleerden ten opzichte van Harvey's Leer von den bloedsomloop, etc. 



Utrecht, 1883. 

 Jannettaz, Ed. Les Roches, description et analyse au microscope. Paris, 



1884. The Author. 

 Jardine, Sir William. The Ichnology of Annandale. 1851. Isaac Lea. 

 Jeffreys, J. Gwyn. On the concordance of the Mollusca inhabiting both 



sides of the North Atlantic and the intermediate seas. The Author. 

 Katter, Fried. Monographic der europaischen Arten der Gattung Meloe 



mit besonderer Beriicksichtigung der Biologie dieser Insecten. I. 



Theil. Beschreibung der Arten. II. Theil. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Keyserling, E. Graf. Die Spinnen Amerikas. Theridiidae. 1. Halfte. 



2er. Bd. Numberg, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kinkelin, Dr. Sande und Sandsteine im Mainzer Tertiarbecken. 



The Author. 

 Kirchner, O. and Dr. F. Blochmann. Die microscopische Pflanzen- und 



Thierwelt des Siisswassers, bevorwortet vom Prof. Dr. O. Biitschli. 



ler Theil. Die microscopische Pflanzenwelt des Siisswassers. 



Braunschweig, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kjerulf, Th. Grundfjelds profilet ved Mjosens sydende. The Author. 



Kobelt, W. Iconographia der schalentragenden europaischen Meeres- 



conchylien. Heft 3. Cassel, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kosutany, Thos. Chemisch-physiologische Untersuchung der characte- 



ristischeren Tabaksorten Ungarns. 1882. 



Royal Hungarian Society of Science. 

 Krantz, Dr. A. Verzeichniss der vorriithigen Silur-Petrefacten. 



The Author. 

 Krohn, Aug. Dr. Beitrage zur Entwickelungsgeschichte der Pteropoden 



und Heteropoden. Leipzig, 1860. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Kunz, Geo. F. Tiffany and Company's Collection of rough diamonds. 



1885. The Author. 

 Kupffer, Carl. Gedachtnisse auf Theodor L. W. von Bischoff. Miinchen, 



1884. The Royal Bav. Acad. 



Lacoe, R. D. Catalogue of the paleozoic fossil plants of North America. 



1884. The Author. 

 Lawrence, G. N. Descriptions of supposed new species of birds of the 



families Tyrannidse, Cypselidse and Columbidse. The Author. 



Lea Bros. & Co. One hundred years of publishing, 1785-1885. Philada., 



1885. The Publishers. 

 Lehmann, Alfred. Forsog pad en Forklaring af Synsvinklens Indflydelse 



paa Opfattelsen af Lys og Farve ved directe Syn. Kobenhavn, 1885. 

 30 The Author. 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Lehman, J. TJntersuchungen iiber die Entstehung der altkrystallinischen 



Schiefergesteine. The Author. 



Leighton, Rev. Win. A. The Lichen-Flora of Great Britain, Ireland and 



the Channel Islands. 3d Ed. Shrewsbury, 1879. W.P.Collins. 

 Leitgeb, Hubert. Reizbarkeit und Empfindung im Pflanzenreiche. Graz, 



1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lereboullet, A. Notice sur le Musee d'llistoire natuielle de Strasbourg 



1838 et 1851. Natural History Soc. of Strasburg. 



Leuckart, Friedrich Sigismund. Zoologische Bruchstiicke. H. 1, 2, 3. 



HelmstJidt, 1820 and Stuttgart, 1841. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lewis, H. C. Marginal Karnes. 



Great Trap Dyke across Southeastern Pennsylvania. 



Field Lectures in Geology. Newspaper slips from Public Ledger, 



April— June, 1884. 

 Notes on the Progress of Mineralogy in 1884. The Author. 



Leydijr. Zelle und Gewebe. Bonn, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Lighthouse Board. Annual report to the Secretary of the Treasury, for 



the fiscal year ended June 30, 1884. The Board. 



Lindley, J. Digitalium Monographia sistens Historiam Botanicam Generis 



tabulis omnium specierum. Londini, 1821. In Exchange. 



Lindsley, D. P. The Manual of Takigrafy. Plainfield, N. J., 4th Edit., 



1885. 

 The young writer's primer. The Author. 



Linnsea, Naturhistorisches Institut, Frankfurt a. M. Land-Conchylien 



aus dem palaearctischen Faunengebiet. No. 59. 1885. The Director. 

 List of the Fossils of the Upper Silurian formation of Gotland. 

 Locard, A. Contributions a la Faune Malacologique Franchise. Vni et 



IX. Lyon, 1884. The Author. 



Lorenz, L. Bestemmelse af Kviksolvsojlers clektriske Ledningsmodstande 



i absolut elektromagnetisk Maal. The Author. 



Louisiana. Preliminary report of a geological reconnoissance of, 1869. By 



Prof. Eugene W. Hilgard. 

 Supplementary and final report of a geological reconnoissance of the 



State of Louisiana, May and June, 1869. By Eugene W. Hilgard. 

 Summary of results of a late geological reconnoissance of Louisiana. 



By Eugene W. Hilgard. The Author. 



Lyman, Benj. Smith. A review of the Atlas of the Western Middle 



Anthracite Field, Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, Anthra- 

 cite District. The Author. 

 McAdie, A. The Aurora in its relations to Meteorology. Washington 



City, 1885. War Dept. 



McCook, Henry C. Tenants of an old farm. New York, 1885. 



Note on the intelligence of a cricket parasitised by a Gordius. A new 



parasitic insect upon spider eggs. 

 Hibernation and winter habits of spiders. The Author. 



Macgillivray, P. H. Note on the reproduction of the Ornithorhyiuhus. 



1884. 

 Description of new or little-known Polyzoa. Part VIII. 1884. 



Royal Society of Victoria. 

 Macoun, J. Catalogue of Canadian plants. Part II, Gamopetale. Mon- 



treal, 1884. The Geological Survey. 



Marshal, Wm. Die Entwickelungsgeschichte der Siisswasser-Polypen. 



1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Martini und Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet. :W2e-334e 



Lief. Number^, 1884. \\ ilson Fund. 



Marsh, O. C. U. S. Geological Surv., Vol. X. Dinocerata, a Monograph 



of an extinct order of gigantic Mammals. The Author. 



Lithographic plate of Tinoceras ingens Marsh. Prof. 0. C. Marsh. 




1885.] NATURAL 8CIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



Masters, Maxwell T. Plant life on the farm. New York, 1885. 



Thos. Meehan. 



Maxwell, S. B. Biennial report of the State Librarian to the Governor of 



the State of Iowa, July 1, 1885. Des Moines, 1885. The Author. 



Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York. Sixty-fourth 



annual report of the board of directors of the. 1885. The Trustees. 



Mercantile Library Association, San Francisco. 32d annual report, 1884. 



The Trustees. 

 Meunier, Stanislas. Traite de Paleontologie pratique. Paris, 1884. 



The Author. 

 Mexico viewed through the course of ages. By a Commission of distin- 

 guished Mexican authors under the direction of Gen. Don Vincente 

 Riva Palacio, translated by Gen. F. F. Millen. "Vol. I. New York, 

 1885. The Publishers. 



Meyer, Otto. Successional relations of the species in the French old 

 Tertiary. 

 The genealogy and the age of the species in the Southern old Tertiary. 

 Parts I and II. The Author. 



Miall, L. C. Description of the remains of Megalichthys in the Leeds 

 Museum. Leeds, 1885. The Author. 



Michigan. Geological Survey of. Vols. 1-4. 1869-76. Atlas of 24 maps. 

 The State of Michigan; embracing sketches of its history, position, 



resources and industries. By S. B. McCracken. 1876. 

 Michigan : Its resources. 3d Ed., 1883. 



Annual report of the Commissioner of Mineral Statistics for 1880, 1881, 



1882 and 1884. The Geological Survey. 



Mihalkovics, Victor von. Entwickelungsgeschichte des Gehirns. 4to. 



Leipzig, 1877. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



Minnesota. Report on geology and plan for a geological survey of the 



State of Minnesota. Chas. L. Anderson and Thos. Clarke. 1861. 



A report of explorations in the mineral regions of Minnesota during 



the years 1848, 1859 and 1864, by Col. Charles Whittlesey. 1866. 



Geology of Southern Minnesota. By W. D. Hurlbut. Rochester, 1870. 



Report of Prof. N. H. Winchell concerning the Salt Spring Lands. 



1874. Historical Society of Minnesota. 



Minnesota, the geology of. Vol. I. The Survey. 



Winchell's Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota. 



1st, 2d, 10th, 11th and 12th annual reports. The Author. 



Mississippi. Report on the geological and agricultural survey of the State 



of Mississippi. 1858. The Author. 



Moleschott. Jac Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der 



Thiere. XIII. Giessen, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Monterosato, Marchesi di. Nomenclature generica e specifica di alcune 



Conchiglie Mediterranee. The Author. 



Moore, Thos., and George Jackman. The Clematis as a garden flower. 



London, 1872. In Exchange. 



Moris, J. H. Flora Sardoa. Vols. 1 and 2, and Atlas. Taurini, 1837- 



1846. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Morriel Park. Signal Service notes Nos. 17 and 18. A first report upon 



the observations of atmospheric electricity at Baltimore, Md. 



Washington, 1884. War Department. 



Mouglot. Antoine. Essai d'une flore du nouveau gres rouge des Vosges. 



Epinal, 1852. Isaac Lea. 



Mueller, Ferd. von. Eucalyptographia. A descriptive Atlas of the 



Eucalyptus of Australia and the adjoining islands. 10th Decade. 



Melbourne, 1884. 



Systematic census of Australian plants. 2d annual supplement (for 



1884). 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Index perfectus ad Caroli Linnaei species plantarum, nempe earuni 

 primam ed. collatore Ferdinando de Mueller. Melbourne, 1880. 



The Author. 



Museum d'histoire naturelle. Nouvelle Galerie de Paleontologie. Paris, 



1885. The Museum. 



Niigeli, C. v., and A. Peter. Die Hieracien Mittel-Europas. Miinehen, 



1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naumann, E. Ueber den Bau uud die Entstehung der iapanischen Inseln. 



Berlin, 1885. I. V". Williamson Fund. 



Nces von Esenbeck. Genera plantarum florae Germanicae. 2 vols., 8vo. 



Bonne, 1835. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Nevil, Geoffrey. Hand List of Mollusca in the Indian Museum, Calcutta. 



Part II, Gastropoda. Calcutta, 1884. The Trustees. 



Newberry, Cosmo. The Examination of waters. Royal Society i >f Victoria. 



Newberry, J. S. The Deposition of Ores, 1884. 



The eroding power of Ice. 1885. 



Descriptions of some peculiar screw-like fossils from the Chemung 



rocks. The Author. 



New Jersey, Geological Survey of. Reports for 1863, 1865 and 1884. Atlas 



of New Jersey: Sheets 2, Southwestern Highlands; 3, Central 



Highlands ; 4, Northeastern Highlands ; 6, Central Red Sandstone ; 



7, Northeastern Red Sandstone ; 16, Egg Harbor. 



Report of the New Jersey Commissioners on the Centennial Exhibition. 



1877. Geo. H. Cook. 



New York. Report of the Forestry Commission, January 23, 1885. 



The Commission. 



Nordenskiold A. Studien und Forschungen veranlaszt durch meine 



Reisen im hohen Norden. Leipzig, 1885. 



Vega-Expeditionens Vetenskapliga Iakttagclser. Bandet Andra. 



Stockholm, 1883. T. V. Williamson Fund. 



Norske Nordhavs-Expedition, 1876-1878. XI-XIII, Zoologi. Christiania, 



1884-85. The Norwegian Government. 



Norwegische Commission der europiiischen Gradmessung. Publication 



der Geodatische Arbeiten. Heft IV. Netz and Christiana, 1885. 



Nova Scotia. Report of the Department of Mines for the year 1884. 



Halifax, 1885. The Department. 



Obst- und Geholzbaumschule des Ritterguts Zoschen bei Mersehurg. 



Haupt-Catalog. Engros-Catalog, 1885. - The Publishers. 



Osborn, Henry L. The molluscan body-cavity. The Author 



Osservazioni meteorologische fatte al R. Osservatorio del Campidoglio dal 



Luglio al Dicembre 1884, Roma, 1885. The Observatory. 



Owen, Sir Richard. A history of British fossil reptiles. Vols. 1-4, text and 



plates. London, 1849-84. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Packard, A. S. On the Embryology of Limulus polvphemus, III. 



The Author. 

 Paget, James. Descrtptive Catalogue of the pathological specimens con- 

 tained in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. 

 2d Ed., vol. III. London, 1884. The College. 



Palseontographica. 31. Bd., 3-6 Lief. Supplement II., 5e Abth. Atlas T. 

 I-V. Wilson Fund. 



Pal6ontologie Franchise. Ire S6r. An. Inv. Terrain Jurassique, Livr. 71-77. 



Wilson FuncL 

 Palseontological Society. Publications, Vol. X\X\ III, 1884. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Palmer, Julius A., Jr. Mushrooms of America, edible and poisonous. 

 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Parker, W. Kitchen. On Mammalian Descent. London, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



Peacock, R. A. Second Supplement to Mr. R. A. Peacock's publication, 

 Saturated Steam the Motive Power in Volcanoes and Earthquakes. 



The Author. 



Penna, Jose. Memoria del Circulo Medico Argentino, correspondente al 



periodo de 1883 et 1885 presentada par su Presidente Samuel Gache 



y Discurso del Doctor Jose Penna. Buenos Aires, 1885. 



Pennsylvania. Second Geological Survey. Reports of Proceedings, A 2 , 



F 2 , H 7 , K>, P, P s , R 2 , T*, X, Z. Grand Atlas I, 1 ; II, 1. 1884. 



The Survey. 

 Report of Board of Commissioners, January 1, 1885. 



Chas. A. Ashburner. 



Perrier, Edmund. Les Colonies animales et la formation des Organismes. 



Paris, 1881. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



Piaggia, Carlo. Dell 'arrivo fra i Niam-Niam e del Soggiorno sul Lago 



Tzana in Abissinia. Lucca, 1877. The Lucca Academy. 



Picatoste, Felipe. Centenaria de Calderon, Programa, Memoria. 



Royal Academy of Madrid. 



Platania, C. Enumeratio Molluscorum extraniarinorum in Sicilia. Aci- 



Regali, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Plaut, H. Beitrag zur systematischen Stellung des Soorpilzes in der 



Botanik, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Pollinius, Cyrus. Flora Veronensis quani in prodromum flora? Italica Sep- 



tentrionalis exhibit. 3 vols. Verona?, 1822-24. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Primetz. Jours de Solitude, Ed. Posthume. 



Royal Belgian Academy of Sciences. 



Prime, C. L. The summary of a meteorological journal, kept by the 



author at his observatory, Sussex. The Author. 



Public Library of Cincinnati. Finding list of books. Cincinnati, 1882-84. 



The Trustees. 

 Public Museum of the City of Milwaukee. 2d annual report. October 1, 

 1884. The Trustees. 



Putnam, Chas. A. Elephant pipes in the Museum of Natural Sciences of 

 Davenport, Iowa. Davenport, 1885. The Author. 



Putnam, F. W. The first notice of the Pine Grove or Forest River Shell- 

 heap. 

 Remarks upon chipped-stone implements. Salem, 1885. The Author. 

 Quenstedt, Fr. Aug. Die Ammoniten des schwabischen Jura. Text and 

 Atlas. H. 4-7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Raffels Museum. Catalogue of exhibits. Singapore, 1884. 



Acting Curator. 



Randolph, N. A. Notes from Physiological Laboratory of the University 



of Pennsylvania. Philadelphia, 1885. The Author. 



Rath, G. vom. Mineralogische Mittheilungen. F. 22 Quarze aus Burke 



County, Nord Carolina. 



Vorti age und Mittheilungen, 1885. 



Mineralogische Notizen. Bonn, 1884. The Author. 



Reichenbach, L. Ieones Florre Germanicae et Helveticse. I, 1850 — XXII, 

 D. 22. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Renault, M. B. Cours de Botanique fossile. 4me Annee. 



I. V. Williamson Fund, 

 Renevier, M. E. Les Facies Geologiques, 1884. The Author. 



Reports of the examiners of Section VI. Carbons for Arc-Lamps. Sup- 

 plement to the Journal of the Franklin Institute, June 1885. Phila- 

 delphia, 1885. The Managers. 

 Rice, Franklin P. An account of the discovery of a Mastodon's remains in 

 Northborough, Worcester Coimty, Mass. The Author. 

 Richthofen, Freiherr von. Atlas von China, Orographische und geologische 




454 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Karten, zu des Verfassers Werk China. I. Abtheilung, das nordliche 



China. Berlin, 1885. Schutz-Mappe. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



Robinski, Severin. Zur Kenntniss der Augcnlinse und deren Untersuch- 



ungsmethoden. Berlin, 1883. The Author. 



Rogers, Wm. Barton. A reprint of annual reports and other papers on the 



Geology of the Virginias. New York, 1884. The Editor. 



Rohon, J. V. Zur Anatomie der Hirnwindungen bei den Primaten. 



Mfmehen, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Romanes, G. J Mental evolution in animals. New York, 1884. 



Jelly-fish, star-fish and sea urchins, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Russ, Dr. Karl. Die fremdlandischen Stubenvogel. 4er Bd., 5e und 6e 



Lief. Magdeburg, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Russia. Bulletin du Comite Geologique, Nos. 6-8, 1884. 

 Memoirs du Comit6 Geologique. I. 3— II. 1, 1884. 

 Allgemeine geologische Karte von Russland, Blatt 71, with four sheets 



of maps. Geological Survey of Russia. 



Ryder, John A. The development of the rays of osseous fishes. 



Embryology (Notes from Am. Naturalist, April and May, 1885.) 



On the development of viviparous osseous fishes and of the Atlantic 



salmon. 

 Ryder, J. A., and M. Paysegua. Papers on the development and greening 



of the oyster. "Washington, 1884. The Authors. 



Saccardo, P. A. Svlloge Fungorum omnium hucusque cognitorum diges- 



sit, Vol. Ill/ Patavii, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sachs, Julius. Text-book of Botany, morphological and physiological. '2d 



Ed. Oxford, 1882. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Saint-Leger, Dr. Recherches historiques sur les mots plantes males et 



plantes femelles, 1884. The Author. 



St. Louis Mercantile Library Association. Annual report, 1884. 



The Trustees. 

 Sampson, F. A. The Shells of Pettis County, Missouri. The Author. 



Saporta, Marquis de. Les Organismes problematiques des anciennes Mers. 



Paris, 1884. The Author. 



Sargent, Chas. S. Tenth census of the United States, 1880, vol. IX. Re- 

 port on the forests of North America. 4to, with atlas of sixteen 



maps, folio. Washington, 1885. Thos. Meehan. 



American museum of natural history. Jessup collection. The woods 



of the U. 8. New York, 1885. The Author. 



Sars, G. O. Den Norske Nordhaus Expedition, 1876-1878. XIV, Zoologi. 



Crustacea. I. Norwegian Government. 



Saussure, H. de. Prodromus Oedipodiorum insectorum exordine Orthop- 



terorum. Geneve, 1884. The Author. 



Schleich, Dr. G. Der Augengrund des Kaninchens und des Troches. 



Tubingen, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schmidt, Adolf. Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. Heft 21, 22. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schneider, Anton. Zoologische Beitrage. I, 3, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Schomburgh, R. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic 



Garden and Government Plantations during the vear 1884. . Adelaide, 



1885. The Direction. 



Schotten, Heinrich. Deber einige bemerkungswerte Gattungen der Hypo- 



cykloiden. Inaug. Dissert. Marburg, 1883. The Author. 



Schube, Theodor. Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Anatomie blattarmer 



Pflanzen mit besonderer Berucksichtigung der Genisteen. Breslau, 



1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Schulze, F. Uber den Bau und die Entwickelung von Cordylophora 



lacustris ( Allman) . Leipzig, 1871. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



Schultze, Max. Das Protoplasma der Rhizopoden und der Pflanzenzellen. 

 Leipzig, 1863. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Scudder, Samuel H. Dictyoneura and the allied insects of the Carbonifer- 

 ous epoch. 

 Description of an articulate of doubtful relationship from the Tertiary- 

 beds of Florissant, Colorado. The Author. 

 Secretary of the Navy. Annual report for the year 1884. Vol. EI. 

 Washington, 1884. Navy Department. 

 Seebohm, Henry. A history of British birds. Part V. London, 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Selwyn, Alfred R. C, and G. M. Dawson. Descriptive sketch of the 



physical geography and geology of the Dominion of Canada. 



Montreal, 1884. Geological Survey. 



Semper, C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Theil. Wissen- 



schaftliche Resultate. 2er Bd., XV H. Wiesbaden, 1884. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Animal life as affected by the natural conditions of existence. New 

 York, 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Sharp, Benjamin. Homologies of the Vertebrate Crystalline Lens. 



The Author. 

 Shepherd, Francis J. The significance of human anomalies. 



Clinical lecture on the antiseptic treatment of wounds by dry and 

 infrequent dressing. The Author. 



Shufeldt, R. W. Description of Hesperomys Truei. The Author. 



Siebold, Fr. de. Flora Japonka. Lugduni Batavorum, 1835. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Smellie, Thomas D. Ocean and air currents. Glasgow, 1885. The Author. 

 Smith, J. Lawrence. Original researches in Mineralogy and Chemistry. 

 Edited by J. B. Marvin, B. S. Louisville, Ky., 1884. 



Mrs. J. Lawrence Smith. 



Smith, Lloyd B. Symbolism aud Science. 1885. The Author. 



South African Museum. Report of Trustees of the, for the year ending 



31 Dec, 1884. The Trustees. 



Smithsonian Institution. Annual report for the year 1883. 



Smithsonian contributions to knowledge. Vols. XIV, XV. Wash- 

 ington, 1885. The Trustees. 

 Standard Natural History. Parts XXIX-LII. Boston. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Statistiche Mittheilungen iiber den Civilstand der Stadt Frankfurt a. M. 



18S5. The Statistical Bureau. 



Steiner, J. Untersuchungen iiber die Physiologie des Froschhirns. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Stevenson, John J. Report upon the geological examinations in southern 



Colorado and northern New Mexico, during the years 1878 and 1879. 



The Author. 

 Stirling, Jas. On some evidences of glaciation in the Australian Alps. 

 Notes on the meteorology of the Australian Alps. 1885. 



Royal Society of Victoria. 



Strasburger, Eduard. Neue Untersuchungen iiber den Befruchtungs- 



vorgang bei den Phanerogamen als Grundlage fur eine Theorie der 



Zeugung. Jena, 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Suess. Das Antlitz der Erde. 2e Abth. Prag, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Surgeon General's Office, U. S. A. Index Catalogue of the Library. 



Authors and subject, vol. 4. War Department. 



Sweden. Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. 8vo ser., A a, No. 88, 91 ; 



Ab., 10. B a, No. 4 ; C, No. 61, 62. 4to ser., C, 63, 64 and 66. 



Six Maps in rolled sheets. The Survey. 



Taczanowki, Ladislao. Ornithologie du Perou. Tome 2me. Rennes, 



1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1885. 



Testut, L. Les anomalies musculaires chez 1'homme expliquees par 

 l'anatomie comparee. Paris, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Thomson, Joh. H. On a new land-shell from the New Hebrides. 



The Author. 

 Thomson, Jos. Through Masai Land. 4th ed. 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Trembley, J. B. Meteorology of Oakland, California, for 1882-83 and 

 1883-84. 

 The Santa Anna Valley of Southern California. Santa Anna, 1885. 



The Author. 

 Tryon, Geo. W., Jr. Manual of Conchology; Structural and Systematic. 

 Parts XXV-XXVIII. Second Series, Pulmonata, Parts. I-IV. 



The Author. 

 Turkestan. Materialien zur Geologie von Turkestan. I Lief. 



Geological Survey of Russia. 

 United States Civil Service Commission. 1st annual report, 2d edition. 

 2d annual report, 1884-85. The Commission. 



United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries. Commissioners' Re- 

 port, 1882. Washington, 1884. Dept. of the Interior. 

 United States Coast and Geodetic Survey. Report of the Superintendent, 

 showing the progress of the work during the fiscal year ending June, 

 1883. Washington, 1884. Treasury Department. 

 United States Entomological Commission. 3d report, 1883. • 



Department of Agriculture. 

 United States Geographical and Geological Survey of the Rocky Mountain 

 Region. Contributions to North American Ethnology, V. Wash- 

 ington, 1882. Department of the Interior. 

 United States Geological Survey of the Territories (F. V. Hayden). Re- 

 port, vol. 8. — Lesquereaux's Contributions to the fossil flora of the 

 Western Territories. Part III. — Vol. 3 : Cope's Vertebrata of the 

 Tertiary Formation. Book I. 

 United States Geological Survey. Bulletin, Nos. 2-6, 11. 

 Monographs, Iu-VIII. 



Annual Reports, 3d and 4th. Department of the Interior. 



University of Pennsylvania. Catalogue and announcement, 1884-85. 

 Department of Biology, 1884-85. The University. 



Vandeikindcre, L. L'Universite de Bruxelles. Notice Historique. 

 Bruxelles, 1884. The University. 



Vasey, G. A descriptive Catalogue of the Grasses of the United States, 

 including especially the grass collection at the New Orleans Expo- 

 sition. Washington, 1885. The Author. 

 Vayssiere, M. A. Sur l'organisation de la Truncatella. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 

 Verrill, A. E. Second and Third Catalogue of Mollusca, with plates 

 XXVIII-XXXII, and XLII-XLIV. New Haven, 1884, 1885. 



The Author. 



Victoria. Gold Fields of Victoria. Reports of the Mining Registrars for 



the quarter ended 30th Sept., 1884. Melbourne. Tl u Author. 



Villa, Rivista Geologica dei Terieni della Brianza. The Author. 



Vogt, Carl, and Emile Yung. TraitG d'Anatomie comparee pratique. Ge 



et 7e Livr. Paris. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Von der Plants, Dr. J. D. De Plaatsbepalinj; de aroinatsche Lichameu. 



Utrecht, 1883. Provincial Society of Arts and Sciences of Utrecht. 



Wahl. W. H. Annual 'Summary of Engineering and Industrial Progress. 



1884. The Author. 



Walsh, Joseph M. A cup of tea, containing a history of the Tea Plant. 



1884. The Author. 



Ward, Henry A. ( iatalogue ofspecimen of mollusca for sale by. The Author. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 457 



Watson, Rev. R. Boog. On the Cerithiopsides from the eastern side of the 

 North Atlantic, with three new species from Madeira. London. 

 1885. The Author. 



Weismann, Aug. Ueber den Einfluss der Isolirung auf die Artbildung. 

 Leipzig, 1872. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Waite, Chief-Justice, and Noah Porter. Addresses at the unveiling of the 

 Joseph Henry Statue at Washington, D. C, April 19, 1883. Wash- 

 ington, 1884. Smithsonian Inst. 



Wells, David A. A primer of tariff reform. 1885. Cobden Club. 



Westbrook, R. B. In Memoriam William Wagner. March 7, 1885. 



The Author. 



White, Chas. A. A review of the fossil Ostraeidae of North America, and 

 a comparison of the fossil with the living forms, by Chas. A. White, 

 with appendices by Prof. Angelo Heilprin and Mr. John A. Ryder. 

 Washington, 1884. The Author. 



Wiedersheim, Robert. Grundriss der vergleichenden Anatomie der 

 Wirbelthiere. Jena, 1884. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Winchell, N. H. The economical geology of the region of Cheboygan and 

 Old Mackinac, in the Counties of Presque Isle, Cheboygan and 

 Emmet, State of Michigan. The Author. 



Wigand, A. Botanische Hefte. les H., 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Woodward, B. B. The young collector's handbook of Shells. 



• I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. 36th annual announcement, 

 May, 1885. The Trustees. 



Worth, S. G. Third biennial report of the Superintendent of Fish and 

 Fisheries of the State of North Carolina, for the years 1883-84. 



The Author. 



Wright, Carroll D. History of wages and prices in Massachusetts, 1752- 

 1833, including comparative wages and prices in Massachusetts and 

 Great Britain, 1860-1883. Boston, 1885. The Author. 



Wroblewski, M. S. de. Comment Fair a ete liquefie. Paris, 1885. 



The Author. 



Yale College. Catalogue of the officers and students of, 1884-85. New 

 Haven, 1884. 

 Yale College in 1885. Some statements respecting the late progress 



and present condition. June, 1885. 

 Obituary record of graduates of Yale College during the Academical 

 year ending 1885. The Trustees. 



Yarrel, Wm. A history of British birds. 4th Ed. Parts XXVI-XXIX. 

 London. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Young Men's Library at Buffalo. Finding-list of history, politics, biog- 

 raphy, geography, travel and anthropology. 1885. The Librarian. 



Zacharias, Otto. Ueber geloste und ungeloste Probleme der Naturfor- 

 schung. Leipzig, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zimmermann, O. E. R. Atlas der Pfianzenkrankheiten welche durch 

 Pilze hervorgerufen werden. Heft I. Halle a. S., 1885. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zittel, Karl A. Handbuch der Pakeontologie. I Bd., II Abth., IV Lief. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zoologische Station zu Neapel. Fauna et Flora des Golfes von Neapel. 

 X, XI and XII Monographic. 

 Drittes Preisverzeichhiss. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zopf, W. D. Zur Morphologie und Biologie der niederen Pilzthiere 

 (Monadinen). Leipzig, 1885. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




458 proceedings of the academy of [1885. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Adelaide. Royal Society. Transactions. VI. VII. The Society. 



Philosophical Society. Transactions, Proceedings and Report, 1877- 

 78. The Society. 



Albany. New York State Library. 65th and 66th reports of trustees. 



The Trustees. 



New York State Museum of Natural History, 28th, 33d and 37th 



annual reports. The Trustees. 



Regents of the University of the State of New York, 95th-97th annual 



reports. The Regents. 



American Social Science Association. Journal of Social Science, Nos. I — 



IX. 



Conference of Board of Public Charities, 1874, 1875, 1877. The Society. 



Amiens. Societe Linneenne du Nord de la France. Bulletin III — VI. 



The Society. 

 Amsterdam. K. zoologisch Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra. Neder- 

 landsch Tijdschrift voor de Dierkunde, V, 1. 



Bijdragen tot de Dierkunde, X, 1 ; XI, 2. The Society. 



K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeeliugen. 

 Afd. Letterk. II R. 1-12 D ; III R, 1 D. 

 Afd. Natuurk., XIX, 1-3; XX, 1-3. 



Jahrboek, 1883. • 



Processen Verbaal. Aft. Natuurk., Mei, 1883— Mar., 1884: 

 Naam-Register. The Society. 



K. Nederlandsche Institut van Wetenschappen. Tijdschrift, D 1-3. 



The Society. 

 Angeis. Societe National d' Agriculture, Sciences et Aits. Memoires, T. 

 26. The Society. 



Anvers. Societe de G£ographie. Bulletin, IX, 2— X, 2. The Society. 



Auch. Societe Francaise de Botanique. Revue de Botanique, III, 25-37, 

 39, 40. The Society. 



Auxerre. Societe" des Sciences historiques et naturelles de l'Yonne. Bul- 

 letin, An., 29-34, 36, 38, 39. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Chemical Journal, VI, 5 — VII, 3. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Mathematics, VII, 2 — VIII, 1. The Editor. 

 Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratoiy, 

 III, 2, 3 and 4. 



University Circulars, Nos. 1-44. 



Register, 1884-5. The Trustees. 



Peabody Institute. 18th annual report. The Trustees. 



Bamberg. Naturforschende Gesellschaft, 13er Bericht. The Society. 



Basel. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, VII, 3. 



The Society. 

 Schweizerische palaontologische Gesellschaft. Abhandlun-en, XI. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Batavia. Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Natuurkundig 

 Tijdschrift voor Nederlandsch Indie. 8e Ser. V, 3 — VI, 2. 



The Society. 



Bath. Postal Microscopical Society. Journal of Microscopy and Natural 



Science, IV, 13. The Society. 



Belfast. Naturalists' Field Club. Annual report, II, 4. The Society. 



Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, sessions 



187:2-74, 1876-81, iss:{ s:,. The Society. 



Berlin. Ai.hiv fur Naturgeschichte, XLVIII, 6; XLIX, 6; L, 2-5; LI, 1. 



The Editor. 

 Botanischer Jahreshericht (Just). IX, 2 Abth. 2 ; X, 1 Abth. 1, 2; 

 2 Abth. 1. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Deutsche! Fischerei Verein. Haupt-Sachregister, 1870-82; 1N84, Cir- 

 cular 1-6. The Society. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift XXXVI, 1— XXXVII, 



2. The Society. 



EntomologischerVerein. Deutsche entomologische Zeitschrift, XXVIII, 



1— XXIX, 1. The Society. 



Entomologischer Verein in Berlin. Berliner entomologische Zeitschrift, 



XXVIII, 2— XXIX, 1. The Society. 



Garten-Zeitung, Wittmack. Ill, 1-52 and Reg. The Editor. 



Gesellschaft Naturforschender Freunde. Sitzungsberichte, 1884, 8- 



1885, 7. The Society. 



Jahrbucher fiir wissenschaftliche Botanik. Pringsheim. XV, 3 — XVI, 



2. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



Naturae Novitates. 1884, Nos. 22-1885, 21. The Publishers. 



K. Preussische Akademie der "Wissenschaften. Monatsberichte, 1855, 



'56, '57, '73, '77. Bericht 1836. 



Sitzungsberichte, 1884, XVIII— LIV. The Society. 



Der Naturfoischer, XVII. 



Bern. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilimgen, Nos. 224-359, 1083- 



1991, 1119-1132. The Society. 



Besancon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts, 1846-1851 ; 1854, 



Jan., 1855-1869 ; 1870, Jan., 1872, 1874-1877. The Society. 



Birmingham. Philosophical Society. Proceedings. IV, 1. The Society. 



Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresbericht, XI. The Society. 



Bologna. Accademia delle Scienze. Memorie S. IV, Vol. 5. The Society. 



Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anatomie, XXIV, 2 — XXV, 3. Namen- 



und Sachregister zu Bd. I-XX. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturhistorischer Verein. Verhandlungen, XL, 1-XLII, 1. Autoren- 



und Sachregister zu Bd., I-XL. The Society. 



Bordeaux. Academie nationale des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Actes 



I, \-A ; III, 3, 4 ; TV, 1 ; V, 2, 3 ; VI, 1-3 ; VII, 1-4 ; VIII, 1-4. 



Recueil des Actes, X, 1, 4 ; XI, 1-4 ; XII, 1, 2 ; XIV, 1-4 ; XVI, 1, 4 ; 



XVII, 2. The Society. 



Societe Linneenne. Actes XXIX, XXX, XXXV, XXXVII. 



The Society. 

 Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings, XX. 



Memoirs, XI, Pt. 2, No. 1. The Society. 



The Auk, II, 1-4. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XXII, pp. 481 et seq., 

 XXIII, p. 33-192, XXII, No. 4. 



Memoirs, III, 11. The Society. 



Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropologic, XV, 4. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliche Mikroskopie, I and II, 1, 2. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen, VIII, 2 ; IX, 2. 



The Society. 

 Brisbane. Royal Society of Queensland. Proceedings, I, 2-4. The Society. 

 Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Proceedings, IV, 3. The Society. 



Brooklyn. Entomologica Americana, I, 1-8. The Editor. 



Brookville. Society of Natural History. Bulletin, I. The Society. 



Brunn. K. K. Mahrisch-Schlesische Gesellschaft zur Beforderung des 

 Ackerbaues. der Natur- und Landeskunde. Mittheilun<>en, n. F. 

 1850, 1-4 ; 1851, 1-4 ; 1860-1879, 1881-1884. The Society. 



Naturforschender Verein. Verhandlungen, XXII, 1, 2. 

 Bericht der meteorologischen Commission, 1882. The Society. 



Bruxelles. Academie Royale des Sciences, des Lettres et des Beaux-Arts 

 de Belsjique. Annales, 1885. 

 Memoires, T. 45. 

 M6moires couronnes, 8vo, T. 36. 

 Memoires couronnes, 4to, T. 45 and 46. 

 Bulletin, 3e, Ser., VI, 1, 2 ; VIJI, 9-X, 8. The Society. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Musde Royale d' Histoire Naturelle de Belgique. Bulletin, I— III. 



The Director. 

 Societe" Beige de Geographic Bulletin, 1877-1885, No. 3 The Society. 

 Society Beige de Microscopic Bulletin, XI, 1-11. 



Annates, IX — X. The Society. 



Societe Entomologique de Belgique. Compte-Rendu, Ser. Ill, Xos. 

 38-60. Annales, XXIX, 1. The Socict.s . 



Societe Malacologique. Annales, XV, XVIII, XIX. 



Proces-Verbaux, 1884, pp. 1-104; 1885, Jan. 3-Juil 5. 



The Society. 

 Buda-Pest. M. Tudomanyos Akademia. Ungarische Revue, 1881, IV; 

 1883, IV-X ; 1884, I-X. 



Ertekezesek a mathematikai Tudomanyok Korebol, IV K, 4-8 



S ; VI, 3, 4, 10 ; VIII, 1G ; X, 1-11. 



Ertekezesek a Termeszettudomanyok Korebol, XIII, 1-7, 9-11, 



13, 15 ; XIV, 1. 



^ Ertesitoje, X-XVII. The Society. 



Societe Royale Hongroise des Sciences Naturelles, la Passe et le 



Present de la, 1885. The Society. 



Ungarischen National-Museum. Naturhistorische Hefte, VIII, 1 — 



IX, 2. The Director. 



Buenos Aires. Circulo Medico-Argentino. Anales An. 8, V, VIII, No. 3. 



The Editor. 



Sociedad Cientifico Argentina. Anales, XVIII, 4— XIX, li. 



Caen. Academie nationale des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Menioires, 



Tables chron., 1884. The Society. 



Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Centenary review of, from 1784 to 



1884. 



Journal, XVII, II; XVIII, Jan., Feb., June-Dec; XIX, 

 XX, 1-6; XXI; XXII, 1-3, 5-7; XXIII, 3, 4, 6, 7; 

 XXIV-XXVIII, 1-3; XXX; XXXIII, 2, 3, and Supl.; 

 XXXV, I, 1 ; II, 1 ; XLI, II, 1-4 ; XLII, II, 1, 3, 4 ; XLIV, 

 II, 1-3 and Supl.; XLV, II, 1-4; LII, 2, Title and index; 

 LIII, I, Special number, 2 ; LIII, II, 2 ; LIV, I, 2 ; II, 3. 

 Proceedings, 1885, Nos. 1-5. The Society. 



Cambridge. Appalachian Mountain Club. Appalachia, TV, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Harvard University. Library Bulletin, Nos. 30-32. The Trustees. 



93d Annual report of library syndicate, 1884-85. 

 Museum of Comparative Zoology. Reports, 1883-1885. 

 Bulletin, VII, 2-8, 11, Title, etc.; XI, 11 ; XII. 1. 

 Memoirs, X, 4 ; XI, 1 ; XIII, XIV, I, 1. The Director. 



Science, Nos. 95-146. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Canada. Royal Society. Proceeding and Transactions, 1882 and 1883 ; 

 1884,11. < The Society. 



Cardiff. Naturalists' Society. Report and Transactions, XVI. The Society. 

 (asset. Malakozoologische Blatter, VII, 5-12; VIII, l-:>. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht, V-VIII. The Society. 



Charleston. Elliott Society of Science and Arte. Proceedings, II. pp. 1-40. 



The Society. 



Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, XXlV. 



ilogue de la Bibliotheque, II, 2. The Society. 



Chicago. American Antiquarian, VI, 6— VII. 5. The Editor. 



American Chemical Review, IV, 10. The Editor. 



Mind in Nature, I, 4. The Editor. 



Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, X, 1, 2. 



The Editor. 

 Videnskab-Selskab. Forhandlinger, 1884. The Society. 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



Chur. Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens. Jahresbericht, n. F. 

 I-XXVIII The Society. 



Cincinnati. Society of Natural History. Journal, VII, 4 — VIII, ?>. 



The Society. 

 Colombo. Royal Asiatic Society. Journal, 1845-1848 ; 1853 ; 1855-1858 ; 

 1873 ; 1874 ; 1879 ; 1881 ; 1882, II, 2 and extra number. 



The Society. 

 Same. Ceylon Branch. Proceedings. 1873-1880 ; 1882 ; 1883. 



The Society. 



Columbia. University of the State of Missouri. Bulletin of the Museum, 



I, 1 . The Director. 



Congres International d' Anthropologic et d'Archeologie prehistoriquc. 



Compte Rendu de la 9me Session, 1880. The Society. 



Copenhagen. Botaniske Forening. Botanisk Tidsskrift, XIV, 1-4. 



M.-ddelelser, 1885, No. 7. The Society. 



K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1884, No. 1—1885, No. 1. 



Skrifter, 6te. Raekke, I, 9, 10 ; II, 6 ; I, II, III, Bd. The Society. 

 Naturhistoriske Forening. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1883, II. 



The Society. 

 Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. Schiodte, 3e R. XIV, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Sock'te Royale des Antiquaires du Nord. Memoires, n. s., 1885. 

 Tillaeg, 1882-1884. The Society. 



Cordoba. Academia Nacional de Ciencias exactas. Actas, V. 1. 



Boletin, VI, \-A ; VII, 1-3 ; VIII, 1-4. The Society. 



Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, IX, 12— X, 11. The Editor. 



Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften, XV, 2, 3, 4 ; n. F., II, 

 1— VI, 2. The Society. 



Darmstadt. Grossherzoglich hessische geologische Landesanstalt. Ab- 

 handlungen, I, 1. The Society. 



Mittelrheinischer Geologischer Verein. Geologische Specialkarte des 

 Grossherzogthums Hessen und der angrenzenden Landesgebiete. 

 Section Friedberg, Hieszen, Biidingen, Offenbach, Schotten, Die- 

 burg, Herbstein-Fulda, Erbach, Darmstadt, Alzey, Mainz, Alsfeld, 

 Lauterbach, Allendorf. Gladenbach, Biedenkopf, Worms ; with 

 maps, 1855-1872. The Society. 



Denver. Colorado Scientific Society. Proceedings, I. The Society. 



Des Moines. Academy of Science. Bulletin, I, 1. The Society. 



State Historical Society, 15th biennial report. The Society. 



Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, III, 3-6 ; IV, 1 ; 

 V, 1 ; VII, 1. 

 Arebiv fur die Naturkunde Liv- Ehst- und Kurlands, 2e Ser, X. 1. 



Schriften, I. The Society. 



Dresden. K. Leopoldina Carolina Akademie Deutcher Naturforscher. 

 Nova Acta, vols. 45 and 46. 



Leopoldina. H. 19. ' The Society. 



Natunvissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis. Sitzungsberichte and Ab- 

 handlungen, Juli-Dec. 1884. 



Festschrift zur Feier des 50es jahrigen Bestehens. The Society. 



Dublin. Royal Dublin Society, Proceedings, IV, 1-6. 

 Transactions, Ser. II, Vol. Ill, 1-6. 



Journal, No. 45. The Society. 



Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, I, 1-3; IV, 



V, X, XIII, XIV, XV, I. The Society. 



Geological Society, V, 1, 3. The Society. 



Royal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1883-85. The Society. 



Scottish Naturalist, n. s., Nos. 7-10 The Editor. 



Elberfeld. Naturwissenschaftlieher Verein. Jahres-Bericht, l!esand4esH. 



The Society. 




462 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Emden. Naturforchende Gesellschaft. Jahresberichte, 1840-1845, 1847, 

 1848, 1850-53, 60er, 1874, 1883-84. 



Kleine Schriften, VII-IX, XI-XIV, XVI. The Society. 



Erfurt. K. Akademie gemeiniitziger Wissenschaften. Jahrbuch, n. F., 



II. !•.' and 13. The Society. 



Erlangen. Phvsikalisch-medicinische Societlit. Sitzungsberichte, H. 16. 



The Society. 

 Florence. Nuovo Giomale Botanico Italiano, Caruel ; XVII, 1-4. 



The Editor. 

 Societa Entomologica Italiano. Bolletino, Anno 16o, Trim. I-IV. 



The Society, 



Societa, Italiana di Antropologia, Etnologia e Psicologia comparata. 



Archivio XIV, 1, 2 ; XIV, 1. The Society. 



France. Association Francaise pour 1' Advancement des Sciences. Comntes 



Rendus, 1883. The Society. 



Frankfurt a. M. Deutsche malakologischc Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher, 



XII, 1, 2. 



Nachrichtsblatt, 1884, Nos. 11, 12 ; 1885, Nos. 1-8. The Society. 

 Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Monatliche Mittheilungen, II, 7. 



The Society. 

 Physikalischer Verein. Jahresbericht, 1842-47; 1849-1884. The Society. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1884. 



The Society. 



Der Zoologische Garten, XXVI, 1. The Editor. 



Freiburg, i. B. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Berichte iiber die Ver- 



handlungen, VIII, 2. The Society. 



Gand. Archives de Biologic, Van Beneden et Bambeke, V, 2-4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Geneva. Institut National Genevois. Bulletin, T. 26. The Society. 



Recueil Zoologique Suisse, Fol. I, 2 — II, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Memoires, XXVIII, 2. 



TheSoci. ty. 



Genoa. Societa di Letture e Conversazioni seientifiche. Giornale, VIII, 



12— IX, 6. The Society. 



Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie, Fittica. 1883, 



Nos. 2 I. The Editor. 



Glasgow. Geological Society. Transactions, VII, 2. The Society. 



Natural History Society. Proceedings, I, 1, 2 ; II, 1, 2; III, 1 ; IV, 



1; V, 3; n. s. I, 1. The Society. 



Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XV, XVI. The Society. 



Gorlitz. Oberlausitzische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Neues lau- 



sitzisches Magazin, 60er Bd., 1, 2 ; 61er Bd., 1. The Society. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XI -X\TII. The Society. 



Goteborg. Goteborgs K. Vetenskaps och Vitterhets Samhiilles. Hand- 



Hngar, n. T. le-19e H., 1850-1884. The Society. 



Gotha. Dr. A. Petermann's Mitteilungen aus Justus Perthes geographi- 



scher Anstalt, 1884, XI— 1885, X. 



Erganzungsheft, Nos. 75-79. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Graz. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein fiir Stciermark. ]\Iittheilungen, 



1884. The Society. 



Meirimarkisch standisch Joanneum. Jahresberichte I-LVI ; LVIII ; 



LXI LXXH. The Society. 



Verein der Aerzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen, 1*78, 1883. 



Jahresbericht, 3er und 4er. 



sitzungsberichte, VII-X. The Society. 



Halifax. Nova Scotia Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and 



Transactions, VI, 1. The Society. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XVI, 3. 

 Bench*, 1848-49, 1884 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1884. The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Naturwissenschaften, 4e F. Ill, 4 — IV, 3. The Editor. 

 Hamburg. Geographische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 1882-83, "II; 

 1884 ; 1885, I. The Society. 



Naturhistorisches Museum. Bericht, 1884. The Director. 



Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Abhandlungen, IV, 1 ; VI, 3 ; VIII, 

 1-3. The Society. 



Verein fiir naturwissenschaftliche Unterhaltung. Verhandlungen, 

 V. The Society. 



Hamilton. Hamilton Association. Journal and Proceedings, I, 1. 



The Society. 

 Hanover. Xaturhistorische Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht, 33er. 



The Society. 

 Harlem. Musee Teyler. Archives V, 2e Ser. 4 ; II, 2 ; III, 3 ; IV, 1. 



The Director. 

 Niederliindische Arcliiv fiir Zoologie, Selenka, etc, I-IV. 



Suppl., Bd. I. 1. V. Williamson Fund. 



Societe Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives XIX, 1, 4, 5 ; XX, 1, 2. 



The Society. 



Heidelberg. Xaturhistoriscb-medicinischer Verein. Verhandlungen, n. 



F., Ill, 4. The Society. 



Helsingfoi s. Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten. Ofversigt, XXV, 1-8; XXVI. 



Bidrag, H. 7-10, 39-42. 



Acta, VII, XIII, XIV. The Society. 



Sallskapet pro Fauna et Flora Fennica. Medelanden, No. 11. 



The Society. 

 Hermannstadt. Siebenbiugischer Verein fiir Xaturwissenschaften. Ver- 

 handlungen und Mittheilungen, VIII-XXIX. 



Jahresberichte, 1883-4. The Society. 



Verein fiir Siebenbiirgische Landeskunde. Archiv, n. F., XIX, 1-3. 



The Society. 

 Huddersfield. The Naturalist, I, 1— IX, 108. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Jena. Mtdicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, n. F., 

 XI, 1-XII, 1. The Society. 



Iowa City. State Historical Society. Iowa Historical Record, 1885, Jan., 

 Apr. and July. The Society. 



Kansas City. The Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, VIII, 8— 

 IX, 4. The Editor. 



Khrakow. Societe des Naturalistes a l'Universite Imperiale de Khrakow. 

 Travaux, I-XVII. The Society. 



Kiel. Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein. Schriften I, 1, 3 ; II-V. The Society. 

 Universitat. Schriften I-XXVII. The University. 



Verein nordlich der Elbe zur Verbreitung naturwissenschaftlicher 

 Kenntnisse. Mittheilungen 1, 4-9 H. The Society. 



Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum von Karnten. Carinthia, 1884, No. 10 — 

 1885, No. 8. The Director. 



Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften, XXV, 1 

 and 2. The Society. 



Lancaster. Linnean Society. Linnean Bulletin, Nos. 5 and 6. The Society. 

 Landshut. Botanischer Verein. Bericht IV-VIII. The Society. 



Lausanne. Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, Nos. 90 

 and 91. The Society. 



Leeds. Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding oi York- 

 shire. Proceedings, II, pp. 57-206 ; 1877-1884. The Society. 

 Philosophical and Literary Society. Annual Report, 1884-85. Transac- 

 tions, VHI. The Society. 




464 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Leiden. Nederlandsche Dierkundige Vereeniging. Tydschrift, Suppl., I, 



2 ; VI, 2-4 : 2de Ser., I, 1. The Society. 



Leipzig. Archiv fur Anatomie und Phvsiologie, Anat. Abth., 1885, I-IV. 



Phys. Abth., 1884, VI— 1885, IV. I. \ . Williamson Fund. 



Botanische Jahrbiicher, Engler, VI, 2-5. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



Dnsekten-Borse. Central Organ, II, 12. TheEditqr. 



[nternational Zeitschrift fiir allgemeine Sprachwissenschaft, I, 2. 



The Editor. 

 Jahresbericlite fiber die Fortschritte der Anatomie und Physiologie. 

 Hoffman und Schwalbe, XII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie, XXXII, 2— XXXIII, 2. 



I. V. "Williamson Fund. 

 Morphologisches Jahrbueh, X, 2 — XI. 1. I. V. "Williamson Fund. 



K. SachsischeGesellschatt der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen, XIII, 

 p. 573— XIV, p. 184 -XIII, 1-4. 

 Bericht iiber die Verhandlungen, 1883, 1884, I, II ; 1885, I, II. 



The Society. 

 Verein furErdkunde. Mittheilungen, 1873-1883, 1 and II. The Society. 

 Zeitschrift fiir Krystallographie und Mineralogie, Groth, IX, 5 — X, 6. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zeitschrift fiir wissenschaftliehe Zoologie, XLI, I — XLII, 3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Zoologischer Anzeiger, Nos. 181-207. The Editor. 



Zoologisehe Station zu Neapel. Mittheilungen, V, 3 —VI, 2 



Zoologischer Jahresbericht, 1883, II Abth., Nos. 1-4. The Director. 

 Lieue. Societe" Royale des Sciences. Memoires, 2me Scrie, XII. 



The Society. 



Lisbon. Academia Real das Sciencias. Annaes ; Sciencias moraes, politieas 



e bellas lettras, I, II, May, July-Nov., 1858. Sciencias mathematicas, 



physicas, historico-naturas, e medicas, I, Marz-Dec, 1857 ; II, Marz- 



Jul, 1858. The Society. 



\--ncia(;ao dos Engenheiros Civis Portuguezes. Revista de Obras 



publieas et minas, Nos. 177-190. The Society. 



Secc/io dos Trabalhos geologicos de Portugal. CommuicaQoes, I, 1. 



The Society. 



Liverpool. Geological Society. Proceedings, I — V, 1. The Society. 



Naturalists' Field Club. Proceedings, 1884-85. The Society. 



London. The Angler's Note-book and Naturalist's Record, 1884, Nos. 5 



and 7. The Editor. 



Auuals and Magazine of Natural History, 5th Ser., Nos. 84-95. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Anthropological Institute. Journal, XIV, 3 — XV. 1. The Society. 



Astronomical Register, Nos. 264-275. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



British Association for the Advancement of Science. Report, 54th 

 meeting. The Society. 



Chemical Society. Abstracts of the Proceedings, Nos. 1-12. Journal, 

 Nos. 265-276, and Supplements to Vols, 45 and It;. The Society. 



Curtis' Botanical Magazine, Nos. 1173-1184. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 The Electrician, XIV, 1 -XVI, 1. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 1884, Nos. 3-5 ; 1885, Nos. 1-3 ; 

 n . s ., 1 1 . 1 s ; 1 1 1 , ll8 ; IV, 3rd Ser., II, 1 ; III, 4-7 ; IV. The Society. 

 Gardeners' Chronicle, n. s., Nos. 568-620. The Editor. 



Geological Magazine, Nos. 246-257. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Gedogical Record, L877, l*7s. . I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, Nos. 160 -164. The Society. 

 Geologists' Association. Proceedings, I (No. 7 wanting), II IX, 3. 



The Society. 

 Hardwicke's Science Gossip, Nos. 240-251. I. V. Williamson Fund. 








1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



Ibis, 5th Ser., II, 9-12. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, XIX, 2 — XX, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Botany, Nos. 264-275. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Conchology, IV, 7-10. The Editor. 



Journal of Physiology, Foster, V, 4— VI, 5. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Journal of Science, 3rd Ser., Nos. 132-143. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Knowledge, Nos. 158-174, 179-204. The Editor. 



Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Nos. 134-137. Zoology, Nos. 

 103-108. 



Transactions, 2nd Ser., Zoology, II, 11, 13, 14 ; III, 1-3. Botany 

 II, 8 



List, 1884-85. The Society. 



London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine, 5er Ser., Nos. 



114-126. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical 



Magazine, Nos. 28-30. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



The Naturalist, Nos. 113-124. The Editor. 



Nature, Nos. 786-837. The Editur. 



The Observatory, No. 92. The Editor. 



Physical Society. Proceedings, I- VII, 2. The Society. 



Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, 5th Ser., Nos. 96, 97, n.s. 



Supplem., 1885, 99. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, n. s., XVI, 



4 -XVII, 3. The Society. 



Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, VI, 10 — VII, 11. 



The Society. 

 Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings. X, 3 ; XI, 1. 



The Society. 

 Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, Ser. 2, TV, 6 — V, 5. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, Nos. 232-238. 



Philosophical Transactions, Vol. 174, Nos. 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 32 and Index to Vols. 21-30. 



The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record, Nos. 203-216. 



The Publishers. 

 Zoological Record, 1883. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1884, II — 1885, III. 

 Transactions, XL, 10. 



List, 1884. The Society. 



Zoologist, 3rd Ser., Nos. 96-107. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Loudon, Ca. The Canadian Entomologist, XVI, 12 -XVII, 10. The Editor. 



Lucca. Reale Accademia Lucchese di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti. Atti, 



XXI— XXIII. 



Memorie e Documenti, XII ; XIII, 1. The Society. 



Liibeck. Naturhistorisches Museum. Jahresbericht, 1884. The Society. 

 Liineburg. Naturwissenchaftlicher Verein. Jahreshefte, IX. The Society. 

 Lund. University. Acta, XIX. 



Accessions-Katalog, 1883. The University. 



Lyon. Academie des Sciences, Belles-Lettres et Arts. Memoires. Classe 

 des Sciences, XXVII. Classe des Lettres, XXI ; XXII. The Society. 

 Madrid. Observatorio. Observationes Meteorologicas, 1875-1883. 



The Director. 

 Real Academia de Ciencias exactas, fisicas y naturaes. Memorias, 

 I- VII * IX X * 



Annua'rio, 1883, 1884. The Society. 



Real Academia de la Historia. Boletin, VI, 5. The Society. 



Revista de los progres de las ciencias exactas, fisicas y naturales, 



III, X. The Editor. 



31 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Sociedad Geografica. Boletin, I-VII ; VIII, 2, 3 ; XII, 2 ; XVII, 4, 5, 



6 ; XVIII ; XIX, 1, 2, 3. The Society. 



Manchester. Geological Society. Transactions, XVIII, 1-10. The Society. 



Scientific Students' Association. Annual report, 1884. The Society. 



Yorkshire Naturalists' Recorder, Nos. 1-14. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Manhattan, Kansas. Journal of Mycology, I, 1, 2. The Editor. 



Mannheim. Mannheimer Verein fur Naturkunde. Jahresbericht, 1883-84. 



The Society. 

 Marseille. Musee d'llistoire Naturelle. Annales, Zoologie, I, 1-3. 



The Director. 

 Melbourne. Philosophical Institute of Victoria. Transactions, III. 



The Society. 



Meriden, Conn. Scientific Association. Transactions, 1884, I. The Society. 



Metz. Academic Memoirs, 1880-81. The Society. 



Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresberichte, 6er und 7er. The Society. 



Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Boletin, 1885. The Editor. 



Museo Nacional. Anales, III, 7, 8. The Director. 



Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, VI, 17-24, 



VII, 5-10. The Society. 



Middletown. Wesleyan University Museum. 13th annual report. 



The Director. 

 Milan. Regio Instituto technico superiore. Programma, 1884-85. 



The Institute. 

 Regio Instituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti, XVII, 17. 



The Society. 



Milwaukee. Natural History Society of Wisconsin. Proceedings, 1885, 



pp. 3-42. The Society. 



Minneapolis. Academy of Sciences. Bulletin, II, 5. The Society. 



Modena. Societa dei Naturalisti. Atti, S. 3a, II, pp. 1-88, 105-140. 



Memorie, S. 3a, II, III. The Society. 



Mons. Societe des Sciences, des Arts et des Lettres du Hainaut. Memoires 



et Publications, 4e Ser., VIII. The Society. 



Montpellier. Academie des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires de la Section 



des Sciences, I, II, III. Section de Medicine, I, II, III, 2 ; V, 3. 



Extraits des Pioces Verbaux, 1847-1854. The Society. 



Montreal. Canadian Record of Science, I, 3, 4 ; II, 1. The Editor. 



Natural History Society. Proceedings, I, 2. The Society. 



Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquary, XII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Moscow. Societe Imperiale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1840, Nos. 2 and 

 3 ; 1882, No. 3 ; 1884, Nos. 2 and 3. 



Nouveaux Memoires, IV ; V; XIV, 4. The Society. 



Munich. G< sellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgcschichte. 

 Beitriige zur Anthropologic und Urgcschichte Bayerns, VI, 1-4. 



The Society. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math.- 

 phys. Classe, 1866, I, 1-4; II, 1-4; 1867, I, 2-4; II, 1-4; 1868, I, 

 2-4; II, 1-4; 1869, I, 1-4; II, 1-4; 1870, 1-4; 1884, 1-4. 

 Almanach, 1884. 



Alihandlungen. Math.-phys. Classe, XV, 1. The Society. 



K. Sternwart. Annalen, X, XIV. The Director. 



Minister. Westfalischer Provinzial Verein fiir Wissenschaften und Kunst. 

 Jahresbericht, XI, 1, 3-5, 12. The Society. 



Nancy. So, n't,' des Sciences. Bulletin, Ser. 3, III, 16, 17. The Society. 

 Naples. R. Istituto d'lncorragiamentd alle Scienze naturali economiche e 

 tcchnologiche. Atti, 3e Ser., 1 1 1. The Society. 



Rivista Italiana di Scienze Naturali, 1, 1. The Editor. 



Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklen- 

 burg. Anliiv, XXXVITI. The Society. 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 46*7 



Neuchatel. Society des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XIV. The Society. 

 New Haven. The American Journal of Science and Arts. 1884, No. 168- 

 1885, No. 179. The Editor. 



Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Transactions, VI, 2. 



The Society. 

 New York. Academy of Sciences. Annals, III, 5-8. 



Transactions, III. The Society. 



American Bookseller, XVII, 5, 11. The Editor. 



American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1884, No. 3-1885, No. 1. 



The Society. 

 American Museum of Natural History. Annual report, 1884-85. 



The Director. 

 The Book Buyer, n. s., I, 12, II, 1. The Editor. 



Forest and Stream, XXIII, 18— XXV, 17. The Editor. 



Index Medicus, VII, 1-8. The Editor. 



Library Journal, X, 1-10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Literary News, V, 12— VI, 10. The Editor. 



Medico-Legal Journal, II, 8. The Editor. 



New York Medical Journal, XL, 22— XLII, 21. The Editor. 



New York Microscopical Society. Journal, I, 1-7. The Society. 



Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 7th annual meeting. 



The Society. 



Popular Science Monthly, Jan. — Dec, 1885. The Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, XI, 10— XII, 10. The Society. 



Nijmegen. Nederlandsche Botanishe Vereeniging. Nederlandsch Kruid- 



kundig Archief, 2e S. I-IV, 3. The Society. 



Offenbach am Main. Verein fur Naturkunde. Bericht 24er unci 25er. 



The Society. 

 Orleans. Societed' Agriculture, Sciences, Belles Lettres et Arts. Memoires, 

 2e Ser. XXIV, 1-4. The Society. 



Osnabriick. Naturwissenschaflicher Verein. Jahresbericht VI. 



The Society. 



Padova. Societa Veneto-Trentina di Scienze Naturali. Atti VI- VIII, 1 ; 



IX 1. The Society. 



Bulletino, I ; II ; III, 3. The Society. 



Palermo. II Naturalista Siciliano, IV, 3 — V, 1. The Editor. 



Societa di Scienze Naturali et economiche. Giornale, XVI. 



The Society. 

 Paris. Academie des Sciences. Comptes Rendus. Vols. 97 and 98. 



The Society. 

 Annales des Mines, 7me S. V, 1— VI, 3. 



Minister of Public Works, France. 



Annales des Sciences Geologique, XVI ; XVII. The Editor. 



Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoolooie et Paleontologie Ome S. 



XVII, 1— XVIII, 6. Botanique, 6rae Ser., XIX, 1— 7me Ser., II, 1. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zooktgie experimentale et general, 2me S. II, 3 — III, 4. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Institution ethnographique. Annuaire, 1879-1884. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, 3e S., XX III, 1 -XXV, 1. The Editor. 



Journal de Micrographie, VIII, 11 - IX, 9. The Editor. 



Museum d'Histoire Naturelle. Nouvelles Archives, VI, 2 ; VII; 1, 2. 



The Director. 

 Le Naturaliste, 1884, No. 70 1885, No. 21. The Editor. 



Revue d'Ethnogiaphie, III, 4 — IV, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Revue Geographique Internationale, Nos. 108-114, 110, 117: 



The Editor. 

 Revue Scientifique, 1885, No. 1— 3eSer., SmeAn., No. 19. The Editor. 

 Science et Nature, Nos. 51-88. The Editor. 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



SociSte' d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, 4e, Ser., I, 8 — II, 8. The Society. 

 Societe de Biologie. Compte Rendu des Seances, 7me Ser., 1884, No. 

 36—1885, No. 37. The Society. 



Soci6t6 Entoniologique de France. Annales, 6me Ser., Ill ; IV. 



The Society. 



Societe Geologique de France. Bulletin, 3me Ser., X, 7 ; XI, 8 ; XII, 



4 6, 7, 8 ; XIII, 1-14. The Society. 



Memoires, 3e Ser., III. G. W. Tryon. Jr. 



Societe Malaoologique de France. Bulletins, III, IV, No. 1, Juil. 1885. 



Revue Bibliographique, 1885. The Society. 



Societe Mineialogique de France. Bulletin, III, 4 ; V, 4 ; VII, 8, 9 ; 



VIII, 1-7. The Society. 



SociSte Nationale d' Agriculture de Fiance. Bulletin, 1884. Nos. 



8-10—1885, Nos. 1-7. The Society. 



Societe Zoologique. Bulletin, 1884, No. 1—1885, No. 3. The Society. 



Philadelphia. Academy of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, 1884, II — 



1885, II. Publication Committee. 



American Entomological Society. Transactions, XI, 3 — XII, 1. 



Entomological Section of the Academy. 

 American Journal of Medical Sciences. Jan.-Oct., 1885. The Editor. 

 American Journal of Pharmacy, 4th Ser., XIV, 12 — XV, 11. 

 American Naturalist, XVIII, 12— XIX, 11. The Editor. 



American Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 32d meeting. 



The Society. 

 American Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 116-120. Register 

 of Papeis. The Society. 



Dental Cosmos, XXVI, 12 -XXVII, 11. The Editor. 



Engineer's Club. Proceedings, IV, 4 -V, 2. • The Society. 



Franklin Institute. Journal, Nos. 708-719. The Society. 



Gardener's Monthly, December, 1884-Nov., 1885. The Editor. 



Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine of His- 

 tory and Biography, VIII, 4— IX, 3. The Society. 

 Library Company of Philadelphia. Bulletin, Julv, 1885. The Librarian. 

 Microscopic Bulletin, n, 2, 3, 5, 6. The Editor. 

 The Museum, I, 1-4. The Editor. 

 Naturalist's Leisure Hour, Jan.-Oct., 1885. The Editor. 

 Papilio, IV, 5-10. The Editor. 

 Society for Organizing Charity, 6th annual report. The Society. 

 Wharton School. Annals of Political Science, I. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society, 13th annual report. The Society. 

 Pisa. Societa Malacologica Italiana. Bulletina, X, 5 — XI, 7. The Society. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Atti, Processi Verbali, IV, pp. 

 125-145, 167-262. 



Memorie, IV, 3. The Society. 



Portici. R. Scuola superiore d'agricultura. Annuario, IV, 4, et seq. 



The Director. 

 Poughkeepsie. Vassar Brothers Institute. Transactions, n. The Institute. 

 Prag. K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 1882- 

 1884. 



Jahresberichte, 1882-1884. 

 Abhandlungen, 6e F., IX, 12. 

 Bericht u. d. Math. u. Naturw.-Publicatione, 1 H. 

 Geschichte der Gesellschaft, 1 H. 

 Generalregister zu dem Schriften von 1784-1884. 

 Verzeichniss der Mitglieder von 1784-1884. The Society. 



Princeton. E. M. Museum of Geology and Archaeology of the College of 

 New Jersey. Annual report, 1885. The Trustees. 



Providence. Random Notes on Natural History, I, 3, 4; n, 9. The Editor. 




1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, n. R., XLII. 



The Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogischer Verein. Correspondenz-Blatt, XXXVIII. 



The Society. 

 Riga. Naturforscher- Verein. Correspondenzblatt, XXVII. The Society. 

 Rio de Janeiro. Escola de Minas de Ouro Preto. Annaes No. 3. 



The Director. 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, Ser. Ill, Vol. VIII, No. 16— Ser. 

 IV, Vol.1, No. 23. 

 Societa degli Spettroscopisti Italiani. Memoire XIII, 9 — XIV, 8. 



The Society. 

 Societa Geografica Italiana. Bolletino, Ser. II, T. IX 10— X, 10. 



The Society. 



Saco. York Institute. Publications I, 2. The Society. 



St. Gallen. St. Gallische Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 



1882-83. The Society. 



St. John. Natural History Society of New Brunswick. Bulletin No. 4. 



The Society. 

 St. Augustine. The Naturalist in Florida, I, 2. The Editor. 



St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Memoires XXXII, 

 1-13. 



Bulletin, XXVIII, 3— XXX, 1. The Society. 



Same, VI Ser. IV, 2e P. 1. Dr. Asa Gray. 



Comite Geologique Russe. Bulletin 1884, Nos. 9, 10 : 1885, Nos. 1-7. 



3b'moires, I, 4; II, 2; III, 1. The Survey. 



Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta, III, 1, 2 and Suppl., IV, 1; VIII, 3; 



IX, 1. • The Society. 



Physikalische Central Observatorium. Annalen 1883, I, II. 



The Director. 



Russian Physico-chemical Society of the University of St. Petersburg. 



Journal XVII, 1-6. The Society. 



Societas Entomologica. Horse XVIII. The Society. 



Imp. Russkoye Geografitcheskoye Obshtchestvo. Izviestiia, XX, 5, 6: 



XXI, 1-4. 



Dwadtzatiletije, 1885. 



Zapiski, Books III-XIII; 1869, 1871, 1873, 1875-1884, No. 4. 

 Ottchet and 2d Ed. Izvestija. 1875-1883. 



Vestnik, 1853-1857, 1859, 1860. The Society. 



Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, XVI, 4-XVII, 3. The Society. 



Peabody Academy of Sciences. Annual reports, 1874^1884. The Society. 

 Record of American Entomology, Packard, 1868, 1869, 1870, 1872. 



The Editor. 

 Salzburg. Deutscher und Oesterreichischer Alpenverein. Mittheilungen, 

 1880-1884. 



Zeitschrift, 1878-1883; 1884, Nos. 1, 2. The Society. 



San Diego. West American Scientist, I, 1. The Editor. 



Sedalia. Natural History Society. Bulletin, 1. The Society. 



Semur. Societe des Sciences historiques et naturelles. Bulletin, 2e-13e 



An. 1865-76. The Society. 



Sondrio. II Naturalista Valtellinese, I, 4. The Editor. 



Staunton. The Virginias. V, 11— VI, 10. The Editor. 



Stockholm. Antropologiska Sallskapet. Tidskrift 1873-1877. The Society. 



Entomologisk Tidskrift, V, 3, 4. The Editor. 



Geologiska Forenino. Forhandlingar, I V. Index; VI, 1-12. 



The Society. 

 K. Vetenskaps Akademiens. Ofversigt. XXXVIII: XXXIX. 1: XLI 

 4-10; XLII. 1 4. 



Bihangtill K. S. V. A. Handlingar, VI, 1, 2; IX, 1, 2. 

 Lefnadsteeknin<;ar, II. 2. 

 Handlingar, XVIII, ; XIX, 1, 2. The Society. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1885. 



Svenska Ballskapet for Anthropologi och Geografi. Bkrifter 1878-1880. 

 Tidskrift, 1881, Il-IV; 1882, I-VIII; 1883, I-VIII; 1884, I-VIII; 

 1883, I-IV. The Society. 



Strasbourg. Association Strasbourgeoise des Amis de l'histoire naturelle. 

 Compte-rendu, 1852-1855; 1860-1864; 1867; 1868; 1870. 

 Societe* des sciences naturelles. Memoires II, 2, 3; III, 1, 2; IV, 1-3; 

 V, 1-3; VI, 1, 2. The Society. 



Stuttgart. Forschungen zur Deutschen Landes- und Volkskunde, Leh- 

 man. I, 1. The Editor. 

 Humboldt, IV, 1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Kosnios, 1885, I, 1-6; II, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Palajontologie, 1884, 

 II. :J; III, Beil. Bd., 2 und 3; 1885, 1-3. The Editor. 

 Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkunde in Wiirttemberg. Jahreshefte, 

 41er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Switzerland. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, 15th-25th 

 Ses. 1829-1840. The Society. 

 Sydney. Royal Society of New South Wales. Transactions, 1873. 



Journal and Proceedings, XVIII. The Society. 



Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, IX, 3— X. J. 

 Tasmania. Royal Society of Tasmania. Papers, Proceedings and Reports, 

 1883, I, 1, 2 ; 1884. 



Monthly Notices, 18C>5-1807, 1869, 1872. The Society. 



Throudhjem. K. N. Videnskabers Selskab. Skrifter, 1873, pp. 244, et seq., 



1882, 1883. The Society. 



Tokio. Sei i I\ wai. Society for the Advancement of Medical Science in 



Japan. Transactions, Supplement, Nos. 1-10. * The Society, 



Seisinological Society of Japan. Transactions, II, V ; VII, 1, 2 ; VIII. 



The Society. 

 Topeka. Kansas Academy of Sciences. Transactions, IX. The Society. 

 Kansas State Board of Agriculture. 5th Annual report ; Biennial re- 

 ports, lst-4th. The Board. 

 Washburn Laboratory'of Natural History. Bulletin, I, 1-4. 



The Director. 

 Torino. Accademia Reale delle Scienze. Atti, XIX, 5-7. The Society. 

 Toronto. Canadian Institute. Proceedings, n. s., Ill, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Entomological Society. Annual Report, 1885. The Society. 



Toulouse. Academic des Sciences, Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres. Me- 

 moires, Mme Ser. VI, 1, 2. The Society. 

 Revue Mycologique. VII, 25-28. The Editor. 

 Societe d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, XI, XIV, XVII, XVIII, Jan.— 

 XIX, Mars. 



Compte-rendu, 1885, 18 Mars, 1 April. 15 Juil. The Society. 



Truro. Royal Institution of Cornwall. Journal, III, 3. The Society. 



Twin Bluffs. The Ornithologist, I, 4. The Society. 



United States. Agassiz Association. First General Convention, 1884. 



The Society. 



American Association for the Advancement of Science. Proceedings, 



XXXIII. The Society. 



American Society of Microscopists. Proceedings, 7th annual meeting. 



The Society. 

 Upsal. Observatoire de TUniversite. Bulletin Meteorologique, XVI. 



The Director. 

 Regia Societas Scientiarum. Nova Acta, IX, 1, 2 ; XII, 1, 2. 



The Society. 

 Urbana. Illinois Industrial University, 12th Report. The Trustees. 



Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologiseh Instituut. Jaarboek. 1883, 1884. 



The Society. 






1885.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 471 



Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. 

 Verslag, 1873-1877, 1882-1884. 



Aanteekeningen, 1873-1876, 1882, 1883. The Society. 



Venice. L'Ateneo Veneto, Ser. VIII, Vol. 2, Nos. 3-6; Ser. IX, Vol. 1, 

 Nos. 1. 2 ; Vol. 2, Nos. 1-5. The Editor. 



Vienna. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, 87 Bd. 3e 

 A. IV, V, 88 B. 1 A. I-V ; 2 A. I-V ; 3 A. I-V, 89 Bd. 1 A. I-V ; 2 

 A. I-V ; 3 A. I, II. 



Denkschriften, 47er Bd. The Society. 



Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, I, 14; II- V ; XIV, 1, 

 2, 3 ; XV, 1. The Society. 



Embryologisches Institut der K. K. Universitat in Wien. Mittheil- 

 ungen, x. f.. 1 H. The Director. 

 K. K. Geologische Keichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, XXXIV. 4— XXXV, 3. 

 Abhandlungen, XI. 1. 



Verhandlungen, 1884, No. 15-1885. No. 12. The Society. 



Mineralogische und Petrographische Mittheilungen, Tschermak. n. F., 



VI, 4-VII, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein zur Verbreitung Naturwissenschaftlichen Kenntnisse. Schriften, 



XXIV. The Society. 



Wienner Ulustrirte Garten-Zeitung, 1884, No. 10—1885, No. 9. 



The Editor. 



K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXXIV, 



Register ; XXXV, 1. The Society. 



Zoologisches Institut. Arbeiten, V, 3 ; VI, 1. , The Director. 



Washington. American Monthly Microscopical Journal, V, 12 — VI, 11. 



The Editor. 

 National Academy of Sciences. Report, 1883. 

 Constitution and Membership, April 21, 1882. 

 Memoirs, I. 



Proceedings, I. Nov. 16, 1880 to end of 1881. The Society. 



United States National Museum. Proceedings, VII, 31— VIII, 36. 

 United States Fish Commission. Bulletin, IV, V. The Commission. 

 United States Publications, Monthly Catalogue. I, 1 — 8. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Wellington. New Zealand Institute. Transactions, I ; XVII. The Society. 

 Wheaton. Young Mineralogist and Antiquarian, I, 6, 8-11. The Editor. 

 West Chester. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, July, 1885. 



The Society. 

 Westeras. Redogorelse for Hogre Allmanna Larovertset, 1880-81, 1885. 



The Director. 

 Wiesbaden. Nassauischer Verein fur Naturkunde. Jahrbucher, XXXVII. 



The Society. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, x. s., Ill, 3, 4. 



The Society. 



Wiirzburg. Botanisches Institut. Arbeiten, III, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, n. F., XVIII. 



Sitzungsberichte, 1884. The Society. 



Zoologisch-zootomisches Institut. Arbeiten, VII, 1-3. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Yokohama. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, XII, 4 ; XIII, 1. 



The Society. 

 York. Natural History Journal (and School Reporter), No. 71. The Editor. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrschrift, XXVI XXIX. 



The Society. 







INDEX TO GENERA, ETC. 



1885. 



PAGB. | PAGB. 



Abacocrinus. .294, 312, 328, 332, 333 I Archaeocrinus- 306, 311, 318 



Aceratherium 33 Arcbaegosaurus 101 



Acherontia 88 Arctostaphylos 379 



Acontia 



Acrocrinidae 342 



Acrocrinus.229, 232, 278, 312, 342-347 



Actinocrinidae 327 



Actinocrinus. .244-247, 249, 232, 



253, 265, 273, 280, 283, 293, 334 



Actinonometra 288 



Agama 140 Attacus 



Argynnis 84, 86 



Artbroacantha. 338-341 



Ascaris 10 



Aster 376 



Asternotremia 137 



Asteroblastus 298 



Atbyma 87 



82 



Agaricocrinus 270, 327 



Agassizocrinus 232, 276 



Agelacrinus 298 



Agrias 177 



Alces 182, 183-20-2 



Allagecrinus 253-256, 279-281 



Alloprosallocrinus 328 



Ambloplites 410 



Ambrosia 376 



Amia 129 



Amiurus 410, 412 



Ammocoetes 410 



Ampboracrinus 335 



Anabas 132 



Anisocrinus 266 



Anomalocrinus. 234 



Anota : 138, 148 



Antedon.248, 253, 261, 262, 268 

 2 7-2 

 Anthemocrinus 



Auris 206 



Baerocrinus 233, 262 



Bariaudeocrinidae 347 



Barrandeocrinus 313, 347-349 



Batbycrinus 272 



Batocrinus...235, 238, 275, 282, 335 



Batracbidae 52 



Batracbus 52, 56-62, 70, 79 



Batracboides 52, 59-62 



Beegerite 19 



Belemnocrinus 293 



Beteocrinus 307 



Bidens 376 



Blatta 105, 111, 115 



Blattidium Ill, 112 



Blattina Ill, 112, 114 



Boarmia 88 



276 Boleosoma 411 



235, 311, 320, 321 | Bothriocephalus 122, 123 



Antrostomus 10 Briarocrinus 237, 323 



Aphelops 33 Bromelica 41 



Apbododerus 137 Bulimus 206-213, 216-219 



Aphredoderus 136, 410 



Aphredodirus 136, 137 Calceocrinus 234, 264 



Aphrodedirus 137 



Aphrododerus 137 



Apiocrinus...227, 230, 248, 285, 



Callicrinus 312, 357, 358 



Callionymus 54 



Calluna 379 



290, 292, 293, 294 i Calpiocrinus 229, 266 



(4-73) 




474 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP 



[1885. 



FAOE. 



Calyptocrinida} 349 



Campostoma 410, 412 



Canistroi'rinus 310, 311, 316 



Caprocrinus 327 



Carpocrinus 248 



Caryocrinus 298, 299 



Catagramma 177 



Catillocrinus 234, 264, 265 



Catopsilia 87 



Catostomus 410 



( !ecr< >pia 26 



Centrocrinus 324 



Ceratodus 130 



Ceriocrinus 263 



Cervalces 181, 183, 184, 185 



Cervus 181, 182-202 



Ceryle 10 



Chserocampa 88 



Cbeilonemus 14, 18 



Chrosomus 410 



Cicuta 383 



Clusius 74, 75 



Cocroi-rinus. ..239, 255-259, 263, 



268-280, 294, 313, 336 



Codaster 298 



Codiacrinus 262 



Colias 24, 25 



Collurio 92-94 



Collyrio 92, 94 



Comarocystites . . 299 



Compsocrinus 306, 309 



Cordylocrinus 337 



Corema 379 



Cory mbocrinus.... 294, 312, 328, 



332, 333 



Cotyledonocrinus 337 



Cromyocrinus 232 



Crotalocrinus.240, 241, 266, 272, 



278, 279, 286, 287, 290 



Cryptomeria 382 



Culicocrinus. .239, 259, 263, 279 



280, 336 



Culius 79 



Cupressocrinus 298 



Cuprite 120, 122 



Cupulocrinus 306, 3< >9 



Cyanocorax 90 



Cyatbocrinus..233, 243, 248, 249, 

 253, 255, 257, 262, 264, 269, 



270, 275, 280, 286-288 



Cynthia 84 



Cylosthurus 384 



Cyprinus 15, 17, is 



Cypripedium 30, 116 



Dama 183 



Danais 87 



PAGE. 



Delias 86 



Dendrocrinus 233, 262 



Desmidocrinus 327 



Dibothrium 122 



Dichocrinus 232, 239, 341 



Diludia 88 



Dimerocrinus 311, 320, 323 



Diplesion 411 



Diplomorpha. . 223 



Discophora 86 



Dolatocrirms 235, 294 , 327 



Doliosaurus 147, 148 



Dormitator 67, 71, 79, 80 



Dorycrinus...247, 270, 271, 282, 336 



Drepanopteryx 108 



Edriocrinus , 232 



Elseacrinus 243 



Eleotridinse 66 



Eleotris 66, 67, 69, 70, 73-80 



Elisama 112, 113 



Enallocrinus. .240, 266, 278, 287, 290 



Encrinus 263, 289, 293 



Eogene 25 



Epeira 103, 104 



Erecthites 376 



Ereotelis 77 



Eretmocrinus 282, 335 



Ergolis 87 



Erica 379 



Erigeron 376 



Erisocrinus 234, 263 



Erotelis 68, 77, 79, 80 



Erythrite 120 



Esox 367-375, 410 



Etheostoma 411, 412 



Etoblattina 35 



Eucalyptocrimus...294, 312, 349-359 



Eucladocrinus. • 236, 337 



Eucrinus 235, 306, 323 



Eudesicrinus 292 



Eugeniacriuites 255 



Eumelica 40 



Eupacbycrinus 262, 264 



Euploea 87 



Eurema 86 



Eusemia 84 



Euthalia 87 



Extracrinus..230, 242, 250, 282, 



286, 289, 290 



Festuca 47 



Filaria 10 



Forbesiocrinus....232, 236, 266, 292 



Fulgur 119 



Fundulus 13, 412 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



475 



PAGE. 



Gaelus 59 



Galago 384 



Gallinago 10 



Gaurocrinus 306 



Gauvina 67, 70, 73, 79, 80 



Gelsemium , 22 



Gennaeocrinus 335 



Gentbite 120, 121 



Gissocrinus 231, 287 



Glaucopis 84 



Gleditschia 404 



GlycerisB 40 



Glyptasteridse 321 



Glyptaster 279, 306, 311, 323 



Glyptocrinus.229, 236, 240, 250, 

 251, 252, 274, 278, 279, 283, 

 285, 290, 293, 306-311, 321, 324 



Glyptocystites 299 



Gnaphalium 376 



Gnorimocrinus 266 



Gobiomorus 66, 68, 69, 70, 79 



Gobius 75, 79 



Gonepteryx 26 



Granatocrinus 255 



Grapbiocrinus 233, 263 



Guettardicrinus...227, 248, 285, 



292, 293 

 Gymneleotris 68, 78-80 



Hadrocrinus 327 



Hadropterus 411 



Haplocrinus..253, 254, 262-264, 



268, 272, 275, 278-281, 294 



Hebomoia 87 



Hecla 25 



Hela 25 



Heliconius 176 



Helix 206, 212 



Hesperia 87 



Heterocrinus.229 234, 235, 275, 293 



Heteromeyenia 28, 29 



Heteroscbisma 243 



Hexacrinidse 338 



Hexacrinus 239, 294, 338 



Hipparcbia 87 



Hipparion . . 33 



Hippotberium 32, 33 



Hirundo 10 



Holopus 256, 257, 259, 267, 



272, 279, 292, 294, 299 



Homaloerinus 266 



Homocrinus 262 



Hoploerinus 233, 235 



Hudsonia 379 



Hybocrinus 233, 262, 299, 318 



Hybocystites 275, 298 



Hybognathus 18, 410 



I'AGE. 



Hybopsis 410 



Hyborbynchus 63, 64, 65 



Hydrargyra 12, 13 



Hylotomus 11 



Hyocrinus 231, 267, 272, 292 



Hypanthocrinus 349 



Hypeneus 152 



Icbthyocrinus....232, 236, 206, 



287, 292 



Iocrinus 262 



Ixias 87 



Junco 9 



Junonia 86 



Labidestbes 410, 412 



Lacerta 145 



Lactuca 376 



Ladia 88 



Lampterocrinus...306, 309, 311, 323 



Lanius 91-96 



Lecanocrinus. 266 



Lecythiocrinus 231 



Lembus 68, 79 



Lepidosiren 129, 130, 131, 133 



Lepidosteus 129 



Lepomis 410,411, 412 



Leptocrinus 327 



Leptops 410 



Letbe 87 



Leuciscus 13, 15, 18 



Leucosomus 14, 15, 16, 18 



Liatris 376 



Limax 206 



Limenitis 84 



Litbocrinus 266 



Lopbius 59 



Lucius 367 



Lumbricus 20, 408 



Lycsena 86 



Lycium 23 



Lyriocrinus 311, 318, 321 



Macrochlamys 82 



Macrostylocrinus 324 



Mamillaria 117, 118, 378 



Mariacrinus 307, 309, 311, 326 



Marsupiocrinus 239, 247, 337 



Marsupites 282 



Mascalongus 367 



Mastodon 49 



Megaceros 184, 188-202 



Megalonyx 50 



Megistocrinus. .270, 271, 272, 



278, 328, 333, 334 



Melanitis 86 




476 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1885. 



Melanura 12, 13 



Melica 40-48 



Melocrinidae 323 



Melocrinus..236, 240, 249, 251, 



270, 294, 326 



Menobranchus 129 



Mesoblattiiia 112-115 



Mespilocrinus 266 



Metacrinus 293 



Micropteras 411 



Miletus 87 



Millerocrinus 230 



Minytrema 410 



Monostomum 10 



Moxostoma 410, 412 



Mulgedium 376 



Mullhypeneus 152, 154 



Mulloides 152, 154 



Mullus 149-153 



Mycalesis 86 



Mylacris 34 



Mylodon 49,50, 51 



Myocrinus 294 



Myrica 379 



Naja 82 



Neortbroblattina 108 



Neptis 86 



Netbania 112 



Notemigonus 412 



Northia 88 



Notropis 410, 412 



Noturus 410 



Ollacrinus 311, 321 



Onychocrinus 236, 241, 242, 266 



Opbiusa 88 



Opuntia 118, 365, 378 



Oryctoblattina 34, 37 



Orycterotberium 51 



Otis 206 



Pampbila 87 



Pantana 88 



Papilio 84, 85, 174 



I 'aromvlacris 35 



Partula 203-223 



Partulus 206 



Parupeneus 152 



Pastinaca * 383 



Patelliocrinus 324 



Pelidne 25 



Pentacrinus 230, 272, 277 



Percina 41 1 



Periecbocrinus 240, 328, 344 



Petrablattina 38 



Phalsena 84 



PAGE. 



Pbilliposcrinus 334 



Pbilypnus 68, 69, 70, 79 



Phimocrinus 263 



Pbissama 88 



Pboca 384 



Pbolcus 103 



Pboraspis 110 



Phrynosoma 138, 140-148 



Pbysetocrinus 240, 252, 282, 



283, 290, 335 



Picorellus 367 



Picus 11 



Pieris 84, 85 



Pimephales 63, 64, 65, 412 



Pinus 379 



Pisocrinus 263 



Placostylus 223 



Platycepbalus 70, 79 



Platycrinidae 336 



Platycrinus..235, 239,242, 244, 

 247, 249, 250, 253, 257-260, 

 263, 280, 283-285, 294, 313, 337 



Plesioneura 87 



Pleurocystites 299 



Plicatocrinus 293 



Plusia 178 



Pceciloptera 108 



Polygala 379 



Polyuemus 126 



Polypeltes 330, 332, 333 



Polypterus 129 



Pomoxys 410 



Poricbthys 52, 56, 57 



Poroblattina 38, 39 



Porocrinus 298, 299 



Poteriocrimis 233,262, 291 



Precis 86 



Primotus 377 



Procbilus 71 



Promylacris 34 



Protopterus 130 



Pseudupeneus 152 



Pterinoblattina 105-108 



Pterotocrinus 232, 342 



Ptycbocrinus 311, 321 



Pycnocrinus 306 



Pycnosaccus 266 



Pytbon 82 



Quercus 118, 365, 379 



Reteocrinida? 316 



Reteocriims. 2:55,236, 240, 249- 

 252, 265, 266, 278, 279, 285, 



'.".10. :;oii 308, 311, 316, 318-321 



Rhaphanocrinus 311, 320 



Rhinichthys 410 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



PAGE. 



Rhinoceros 32, 33 



Rhipidocrinus 311, 321 



Rhodocrinidae 318 



Rhodocrinus 311, 321 



Rhizocrinus 260, 267, 272 



Rhus 383 



Ricania 108 



Kil>idocrinus 236 



Rithma 112-115 



Saccocrinus 328 



Sagenocrinus 306, 321 



Salmo 122 



Salvelinus 122 



Sambucus 23 



Samia 26 



Saturnia 84 



Schizocrinus 235 



Sciaena 71, 79 



Scolopsis 136 



Scomber 126 



Scorpsena 394-403 



Scutinoblattina 110 



Scyphocrinus 312, 327 



Sebastes 127 



Semotilus 14-18, 410 



Sequoia 382 



Sesia 84 



Sivatherium 187 



Solidago 376 



Spilarctia , 88 



Spiloblattina 35, 36, 37 



Spiroptera 11 



Spongilla 29 



Squalius 18 



Steganocrinus...,236, 243, 268, 335 



Stelidiocrinus 324 



Stemmatocrinus 231, 277 



Stephanocrinus 298 



Stereocrinus 235, 327 



Sternotremia 136, 137 



Stibnite - 224 



Stortingocrinus 263 



Strotocrinus..247, 271, 277, 278, 335 



PAGE. 



Stumella 10 



Stylocrinus 263 



Symbatkocrinus...259, 260, 263, 



264, 269, 280, 298 



Talarocrinus 232, 239, 342 



Tapaya 141 



Tarsuis 384 



Taxocrinus 232, 236, 266, 292 



Technocrinus 326 



Tecoma 23 



Teleiocrinus 270, 271, 278, 335 



Tereias 85 



Thauraantis 84 



Thaumatocrinus..227, 248, 250, 

 265, 266, 267, 272, 286, 289, 



292, 293, 295, 311 



Thecla 84 



Theorema 176 



Theridion 102 



Thylacocrinus 306, 311, 321 



Thalassophryne 52-55 



Triacriuus 263 



Tribrachiocrinus 231, 232 



Trigla 150 



Tropaea 88 



Tropidogaster 145 



Unitacrinus 227, 286, 292, 293 



Umbra 12, 13 



Upeneus 149, 152-155 



Uranidea 411 



Vanessa 26, 86 



Vernonia 376 



Voluta 206 



Xanthium 376 



Xenocrinus...231, 249, 250, 265, 



279, 306, 307, 309, 311, 316, 317 



Ypthima 86 



Zeacrinus 229, 262 



Zygonectes 412 




478 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1885. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Aaron, S. Frank. On some new 

 species of Psocidae. 406. 



Additions to Library, 441. 



Additions to Museum, 436. 



Allen, Plarrison, M. D. On the pec- 

 toral filaments of the Sea Robin 

 (Primotus palmipes), 377 ; The 

 shape of the hind limbs in the 

 mammalia as modified by the 

 weight of the trunk, 383. 



Annual election, 434. 



Barton, Mrs. S. R. Announcement 

 of death of, 30. 



Bartram, Win. Presentation of 

 manuscript diary of, 120. 



Bicknell, Ernest P., and Fletcher B. 

 Dresslar. A review of the species 

 of the Genus Semotilus, 9, 14. 



Binder, Jacob. Resolution of thanks 

 to, 380; Report on the Wm. S. 

 Vaux Collections, 419. 



Biological and Microscopical Section, 

 report of, 421. 



Blatchley, Willis S. On the Ameri- 

 can Species of the Genus Umbra, 

 9, 12; A review of the Genus Pime- 

 phales, 30, 63; On Genus Aphredo- 

 derus, 117, 136. 



Botanical Section, report of, 426. 



Brinton, D. G., M. D. Report of 

 Professor of Ethnology and Arch- 

 aeology, 430. 



Clyde, Thomas. Announcement of 

 death of, 20. 



Conchological Section, report of, 422. 



Corresponding Secretary, report of, 

 414. 



Curators, report of, 417. 



Dunker, Rud. Wm. Announcement 

 of death of, 866. 



Eastlake, F. Warrington. Entomo- 

 logia Hongkongensis. — Report on 

 the Lepidoptera of Hongkong, 49, 

 81. 



Eigenman, Carl H. A review of the 

 American Gasterostidce, 380. 



Eigenman, Carl H., and Morton W. 

 Fordice. A catalogue of the fishes 

 of Bean Blossom Creek, Monroe 

 Co., Ind., 380, 410 ; A review of 

 the American Eleotridinse, :>2. 60; 

 List of fishes collected in Harvey 

 and Cowley Counties, Kansas, 380, 

 412. 



Elections during 1885, 435. 



Entomological Section, report of, 424. 



Everman, B. W. and Seth E. Meek. 

 A revision of the American Species 

 of the Genus Gerres, 3S0. 



Fielde, Adele M. Observations on 

 tenacity of life, and regeneration 

 of excised parts in Lumbricus ter- 

 restris, 20. 



Foote, A. E., M. D. On large crys- 

 tals of Stibnite, 224. 



General Index, 478. 



Gentry, Alan F. Description of a 

 supposed new Species of the Genus 

 Cyanocorax. 49, 90; A review of 

 the Genus Phrynosoma, 119, 138. 



Hall, Edw. A. and J. Z. A. Mc 

 Caughan. A review of the Amer- 

 ican Genera and Species of Mul- 

 lidae, 120, 149. 



Hartman, Wm. D., M. D. Descrip- 

 tions of new species of Partula and 

 a svnonymical catalogue of the 

 genus, 180, 203. 




1885.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



479 



Heilprin, Angelo. Report of Cura- 

 tors, 417. Report of Professor of 

 Invertebrate Paleontology, 429. 



Henle, Dr. J. Announcement of 

 death of, 180. 



Henszey, Wm. C. Report of Treas- 

 urer, 431. 



Hess, Robert J., M. D. Report of 

 Biological and Microscopical Sec- 

 tion, 421. 



Horn, Geo. H., M. D. Report of 

 Corresponding Secretary, 414. 



Hough, Franklin B. Announcement 

 of death of, 180. 



Index of Genera, etc., 473. 



Jeffries, J. Gwynn. Announcement 

 of death of, 30. 



Johnson, Henry N. Bequest of, 380. 

 Biographical notice of, 381. 



Jones, Jacob P. Announcement of 

 death of, 156. 



Koenig, Geo. A. A new locality for 

 Beegerite, 19. 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. On some Para- 

 sitic Worms of Birds, 9 ; Rhinoce- 

 ros and Hippotherium from Flo- 

 rida, 32 ; Remarks on Mylodon, 

 49 ; Bothriocephalus in a trout, 

 122 ; Worms in ice, 408. 



Lewis, H. C. Erythrite, Genthite 

 and Cuprite from near Philadel- 

 phia, 120 ; Marginal Karnes, 156, 

 157. 



Librarian, report of, -415. 



Library, additions to, 441. 



McCook, Rev. Henry C. Hiberna- 

 tion and Winter habits of Spiders, 

 102. 



McCormick, Calvin. Inclusions in 

 the Granite of Craftsbury, Vt., 408. 



Meehan, Thos. Spicate inflorescence 

 in Cypripedium insigne, 30 ; Per- 

 sistence in variations suddenly in- 

 troduced, 116 ; Influence of tem- 

 perature on the separate sexes of 

 flowers, 117 ; Elasticity of the fruit 

 of Cactacese, 117 ;. Presentation of 

 manuscript diary of Wm. Bartram, 

 120; Note on Quercus prinoides, 

 365 ; On the fruit of Opuntia, 365 ; 

 Inflorescence of the Composite, 

 376 ; Notes on Cactacese, 378 ; Bi- 

 ographical notice of Heniy N. 

 Johnson, 381 ; Virulence of the 

 common parsnip, 383 ; On a white- 

 seeded variety of the Honey Lo- 

 cust, 404 ; Report of Botanical Sec- 

 tion, 426. 



Meek, Seth E., and Edw. A. Hall. 

 A review of the American genera 

 and species of Batrachidie, 29, 52. 



Meek, Seth E., and Robert Newland. 

 A review of the species of the 

 genus Esox, 366, 367 ; A revision 

 of the American species of the 

 genus Scorpama, 380, 394. 



Mineralogical and Geological Sec- 

 tion, report of, 428. 



Morris, Charles. The primary con- 

 ditions of fossilization, 97 ; On the 

 air-bladder of fishes, 119, 124 ; At- 

 tack and defense as agents in ani- 

 mal evolution, 378, 385 ; Methods 

 of defense in organisms, 406. 



Museum, additions to, 436. 



Nolan, Edw. J., M. D. Report of 

 Recording Secretary, 413; Report 

 of Librarian, 415. 



Officers, Councillors and Members of 

 Finance Committee, 434. 



Peale, Titian R. Announcement of 

 death of, 49. 



Phillips, Moro. Announcement of 

 death of, 366. 



Piatt, Wm. G. Announcement of 

 death of, 393. 



Potts, Edw. A new fresh-water 

 Sponge from Nova Scotia, 28. 



Powell, Samuel. Announcement of 

 death of, 32. 



Professor of Ethnology and Archae- 

 ology, report of, 430. 



Professor of Invertebrate Paleon- 

 tology, report of, 429. 



Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, 

 report of, 429 



Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the Lafay- 

 ette Serpentine Belt, 393, 407 ; 

 Report of Mineralogical Section, 

 428. 



Recording Secretary, report of, 413. 



Redfield, J. H. On the flora of 

 Martha's Vineyard and Nan- 

 tucket, 378 ; Report of Botanical 

 Section, 428 



Report of Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 421. 



Report of Botanical Section, 426. 



Report of Conchological Section, 

 422. 



Report of Corresponding Secretary, 



414. 

 Report of Curators, 417. 

 Report of Entomological Section, 

 434. 



j Report of Librarian, 415. 




480 



PROCEEEINGS OF THE ACADEMY. 



[1885. 



Report of Mineralogical and Geo- 

 logical Section, 428. 



Report of Professor of Ethnology 

 and Archaeology, 430. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate 

 Zoology, 439. 



Report of Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology, 429. 



Report of Recording Secretary, 4 1 :;. 



Report of Treasurer, 431. 



Ridings, J. II. Report of Entomo- 

 logical Section, 424. 



Roberts, S. Raymond. Report of 

 Conchological Section, 424. 



Rotbrock, J. T., M. D. The inter- 

 nal cambium ring in Gelsemium 

 sempervirens, 22. 



Scott, W. 13. Cervalces Americanus, 

 a fossil Moose, or Elk, from the 

 Quaternary of New Jersey, 180, 

 181. 



Scribner, F. Lamson. A revision of 

 the North American Melicae, 

 32, 40. 



Scudder, Samuel H. New Genera 

 and species of fossil Cockroaches 

 from the older American rocks, 

 32, 34 ; Notes on Mesozoic Cock- 

 roaches, 101, 105. 



Sharp, Benj., M. D. Report of Pro- 

 fessor of Invertebrate Zoology, 429. 



Silliman, Benj., Jr., announcement 

 of death of, 32. 



Smith, Uselma C, resolution of 

 thanks to, 380. 



Stein, F. Ritter v., announcement of 

 death of, 20. 



Stejneger, Leonhard. Remarks on 

 Lanius robustus Baird, based on 

 an examination of the type speci- 

 men, 89, 91. 



Strecker, Hermann. Description of 

 a new Colias from the Rocky 

 Mountains and of an example of 

 Polymelianism in Samia cecropia, 

 19, 24 ; Description of new species 

 of Lepidoptera, 156, 174. 



Treasurer, report of, 431. 



Wachsmuth, Chas., and Frank 

 Springer. Revision of the Palseo- 

 crinoidea, Part III, 224, 225. 



Wagner, Wm., announcement of 

 death of, 19; Resolutions of 

 regret, 20. 



Whitney, Geo., announcement of 

 death of, 32. 



Wilcox, Jos. Spawning of Fulgur 

 perversus, 119. 




Proc. A. N. S., Phila., i 



PI. IV. 



Orestes St. John, del. 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





Proc. A. N. S., Phila., i{ 



PI. V. 



Orestes St. John, del. 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





Proc. A. N. S., Phila., 1885 



PI. VI. 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





Proc. A. N. S., Phila., 1885 



PI. VII 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





Proc. A. N. S., Phila., 1885 



PI. VI 



WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 





Proc. A. N. S., Phila., i{ 



PI. IX. 







WACHSMUTH AND SPRINGER ON CRINOIDEA. 







m 



PROCEEDINGS 



T 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART I.— JANUARY, FEBRUARY, MARCH, 1SS5. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



JosErn Leidt, M. D., Geo. II. IIoux, M. D. f 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Tuomas Meeiian, 



J. II. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 







~\ 



wMlsl* 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th ami K:icc Streets. 

 1SS5. 






PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Kizht volumes of the New Series of the Journal nnd Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issue d — 1S47 to I8S4. The price per volume of four |>arts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers ; ami to others. $12.50 tier volume, or $(.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota ami Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains ot North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy.M.D., LI..D. 



The Fiust Series op the Journal. 1*17 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $-10 to members, and to the public. $4S. 



The FiitsT Skiiiks of thf, Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 18-11 to 

 1S56, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1S5G, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $.'!0. 



The Second Series of THE Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31. 1S70), may bo obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $:!.75 per volume. 



The Tiiihd Skiiiks of tiik Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1S71, 

 (of which fourteen volumes were completed D< c. '■'>], 1SS4), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $0.25. 



,23&~ A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 



$10. or $7.» lor both. 



American Journal of Concfiolooy, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volume^, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR. SAIfE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 



Description of SnF.i.LS of Nortii America, with 68 colored plates. By TnoMAS Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mom.itsca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By (Jeo. W. Tryoji, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20: colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of thk Fhksh Water Univalve Moi.Li'SCA of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldkman, 1840-41. With Continuation to 1871. By (J'korce W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species op Strkpomatid*: (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Quo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writkrs on Recent Conchologv, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



nnd Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, £1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By (jeo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $l.7.=>. 

 Complf.tr Writings on Recent and Fossil C»NcnoLOGY of C. S. Rafinesqub. Edited 



by Wm. (J. ISinney and (J W. Tryon, .In. $2 50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LB. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographio 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vol*. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genua Unio. By Isaac Lea, LI.. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Gp.ology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil. Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 C( nts. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All Hie publications of the Society -will bo sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 percent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to \>c made to Eowaud J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hull of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Kace Streets. 



April, L885. 





CONTENTS, 



TAOE. 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. On somo Parasitic Worms of Birds, ... 9 



Blatciiley, Wilms S. On the American Species of the Genus Umbra, . 12 



Bicknei.l, Ernest P., and Fletcher B. Dresslar. A Review of the 



Species of tho Genus Semotilus, 14 



Koexig, Geo. A. A new locality for Becgeritc, 19 



Fielde, Adele M. Observations on Tenacity of Life and Regeneration 



of excised paits in Lumbiicusterrestris, 20 



Rothrock, J. T., M. D. The internal Cambium Ring in Gelscmium 



sempervirens, ........ 22 



Strecker, Hermann. Description of a new Colias from the Rocky 



Mountaius, and of an example of Polymelianism in Samia Cecropia, 24 



Potts, E. A new fresh-water Sponge from Nova Scotia, .... 28 



Meehan, Tnos. Spicato Inflorescence in Cypripedium insigne, . . 30 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Rhinoceros and llippotherium from Florida, . . 32 



Scddder, S. II. New Genera and Species of Fossil Cockroaches from tho 



older Amciican Rocks, 34 



Scribner, F. Lamson. A Revision of the North Amci ican Melicje (Plate I) 40 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Remarks on MylodoD, 49 



Meek, SETn E. and Edw. A. Hall. A Review of the American Genera 



and Species of Batrachidae, 50 



Bi.ATcni.EY, Willis S. A Review of the Species of tho Genus Piraephales, G3 



Eigenmaxn, Cakl H., and Morton W. Fordice. A Review of the 



American Eleotridinaj, qq 



Eaetj.ake, F. Warrington. Entomologia Ilongkongens s. -Report on 



the Lepidoptera of Hongkong 81 



Gentry, Alan F. Description of a new Species of the Genus Cyanocorax, 90 



Stejnegkr, LEoxnARD. Remarks on Lanius robustus Baird, based on 



an examination of the type specimen 91 



JS 



"tLOARI'S MlNTlNO HOUSE, t!4 I 7»» SANSOM 5T 




PROCEEDINGS 



lcit.lc.ng of fatotal Jdtttas 



7 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PvlKT II.-APBIL to JULY, 1885. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 

 , T n Geo. H. Hokn, M. D., 



JOSEPH LKIPY, M D oma9 MbehaNj 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., 



J. H. Redpield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, NL D. 



ACA 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 DEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th an* Race Streets. 

 1 8-8 5. 



m 



S 






PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of t he Now Series of the Journal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued,— 1847 to 1SS4. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others. $12.50 per volume, orS<.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remain- ot North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The Fikst Series of tub Journal. 1 SI 7 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may he 

 obtained :it $40 to members, and to the public, $48, 



The Fiust Series of thk Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1 S4 1 to 

 1S50, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30, 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $H.75 per volume. 



The Tumi) Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1S71, 

 (of which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1SS4), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



;JS9~ A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 

 $40, or $75 lor both. 



American Journal op Conchologv, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred ami fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR SAIiE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrf.striai, Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of thk Fresh Water Dnivalve Mollusca of" the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $25 ; with plain plates, SIS. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of thk Species op StrepomatidjR (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Quo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, SI. 75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dales of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph op the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1. 75. 

 Complkte Writin&s on Recent and Fossil C»nchology of C. S. Rapinesque. Edited 



by Wh. G. Binney and G W. Tryon, Jr. S2.50. 

 Observations on thk Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographio 



plates $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $•'.. 

 Fossn. Fuot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notick to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will bo sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 percent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of thr 

 Academy, comer of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



October, 1885. 





3* 



E 



CONTENTS. 



Morris, Charles. The Primary Conditions of Fossilization. 



McCook, Rev. H. C. Hibernation and Winter Habits of Spiders, 



Scudder, S. H. Notes on Mesozoic Cockroaches, 



Meeiian. Tiios. Persistence in Variations Suddenly Introduced, 



Meehan, Thos. Influence of Temperature on the Separate Sexes 

 of Flowers, ....... 



Meehan, Thos. Elasticity in the Fruit of Cactaceae, 



Willcox, Jos. Spawning of Fulgur perversus, . 



Lewis, H. C. Erythrite, Genthite and Cuprite from near Phila 

 delphia, ........ 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Bothriocephalic in a Trout . . 



Morris, Chas. On the Air-Bladder of Fishes, . 



Blatchley, Willis S. On the Genus Aphredoderus, 



Gentry, Alan F. A Review of the Genus Phrynosoma, . 



Hall, Edw, A. A Review of the American Genera and Species 

 of Mullidse, . . . . . . ■ . 



Lewis, II. C. Marginal Blames (Plate III). 



Streckeb, Herman. Descriptions of New Species of Lepidoptera 



Scott, \\ . B. Cervalces Americanus, a fossil Moose, or Elk 

 from the Quaternary of New Jersey (Plate II), . 



Hartman, Wm. !>., M. D. Descriptions of New Species of Par- 

 tula and a Synonymic Catalogue of the Genus, 



Poote, Dr. A. E. On large Crystals of Stibnite, 



97 

 102 

 105 

 116 



in 



117 



Hit 



120 



122 



124 

 13(i' 

 138 



149 

 157 

 174 



181 



203 



22 1 



, In 1 lit S« 




PROCEEDINGS 



^tdtm 4 $ atwl $«*»<** 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PiB T III.— AUG VST to DECEMBER, 1885. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D m Oko. H. Horn, M. D., 



Edw. J. Nolan, M. D., Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



LOGAN SQl] VIfE. 

 1886. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Journal and Part I of Volume IX (Quarto) 

 have been issued — 1847 to 1884. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to 

 subscribers; and to others, $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The 

 Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian 

 Remains of North America." Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1884), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



$£&" A life subscription to either the Proceedings or Journal has been placed at 

 $40, or $75 for both. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



BOOKS FOR. SATjE. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices affixed: 



Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20; colored edition, $13.50; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh AVater Univalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $25 ; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^b (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Trton, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil C«nchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographio 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis of Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $5. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $3. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the prices charged to the public 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



February, />S<:. 





CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 



\\ achbmuth, Chas., and Frank Springer. Revision of the Palseo- 



crinoidea. Part III (Plates IV-IX), .... 225 



Meehan, Tnos. Note on Quercus prinoides, 365 



Mi. khan, Thos. On the Fruit of Opuntia, 365 



Meek, Seth E., and Robert Nkwland. A Review of the Species of the 



Genus Esox, . . . q«i? 



Meehan, Thos. Inflorescence of the Composite, 376 



Allen, Harrison, M, D. On the Pectoral Filaments in the Sea Robin 



(Primotus palmipes), ....... 377 



Mi khan, Thos. Notes on Cactaceae. Elastic Fruit in Mamillaria, . . 378 



Redpield, John H. On the Flora of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, 378 

 Meehan, Thos. Biographical Notice of Henry N. Johnson, . . .381 

 Meehan, Thos. Virulence of the Common Parsnip, . . . .383 



Allen, Babbison, M. D. The Shape of the Hind Limbs in the Mam- 

 malia as Modified by the weight of the Trunk, 383 



Morris, Charles. Attack and Defense as Agents in Animal Evolution, 385 

 Meek, Seth E., and Robert Newland. A Review of the American 



Species of the Genus Scorpaena, 394 



Meehan, Thos. On a White-seeded Variety of the Honey Locust, . . 404 

 Rand, Theo. D. Notes on the Lafayette Serpentine Belt, . . .407 



Leidy, Jos., M. D. Worms in Ice, 408 



Eigenman, Carl II., and Morton AV. Fordice. A Catalogue of the 



Fishes of Bean Blossom Creek, Monroe Co., Ind., .... 410 

 Evebman, Barton W., and Morton W. Fordice. List of Fishes collected 



in Harvey and Cowley Counties, Kansas, 412 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 412 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary, 414 



Report of the Librarian, 415 



Report of the Curators, ,417 



Report of the Curator of the Wm. S. Vaux Collections, . . . .419 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section, 421 



Report of the Conchological Section, 400 



Report of the Entomological Section, 404 



Report of the Botanical Section, 426 



Report of the Mineralogical and Geological Section, 428 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, .... 429 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Zoology, .(29 



Report of the Professor of Ethnology and Archaeology, .... 4o0 



Report of the Treasurer, 431 



Officers, Councillors and Members of Finance Committee for 1886, . . 434 



Elections during 188f>, 4;!.-) 



Additions to Museum, 436 



Additions to Library, 441 



Index to Genera, •••......... 473 



General Index, , 478 



STiNQ HOUSE, 734 L 786 SAN90M 3T 






MBL WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IflRJ I 





