



PROCEEDINGS 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1881. 



publication committee: 



Joseph Leidy, M.D„ Geo. H. Hokn, M.D. 



WiLiiiAM 8. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



John H. Redfield. 



Editor: EDWARD J. NOLAN, M.D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 



ACADEMY OF NATUKAL SCIENCES, 



S.W. Corner Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



1882. 




)^^aa 



Academy of Natural Soibnces op Philadelphia, 



February, 1882. 



I hereby certify that printed copies of the Proceedings for 1881 have 

 been presented at the meetings of tlie Academy, as follows: — 



EDWARD J. NOLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



PHILADELPHIA 



W. P. KtLDARE. Printer. 




LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS. 



With reference to the several articles contributed by each. 



For "Verbal Communications, see Greneral Index. 



Arango, Rafael. Description ef new species of Terrestrial MoUusca of 



Cuba 15 



Buckley, S. B. Quercus Durandii Buckley 121 



Quercus rubra L. var. Texana 123 



Rhus cotinoides Nutt 125 



Chapman, Henry C, M. D. Observations upon the Hippopotamus 126 



On a Foetal Kangaroo and its Membranes 468 



Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on the Tertiary Geology of the Southern 



United States , 157 



A Revision of the Cis-Mississippi Tertiary Species of the United 



States 416 



Remarks on the Molluscan Genera Hippagus, Verticordia and 



Pecchiolia 423 



Note on the Approximate Position of the Eocene Deposits of Mary- 

 land 444 



A revision of the Tertiary Species of Area of the Eastern and South- 

 ern United States 448 



Lockington, W. N. List of the Fishes collected by Mr. W. J. Fisher, 

 upon the coast of Lower California, 1876-77, with descriptions of 



new Species 113 



McCook, Rev. H. C. The Honey Ants of the Garden of the Gods 17 



The snare of the Ray Spider (Epeira radiosa), a new form of Orb- 

 web 163 



Ryder, John A. The Structure, AfBnities and Species of Scolopendrella. 79 



Stearns, R. E. C. Observations on Planorbis 92 



Wachsmuth, Chas. and Frank Springer. Revision of the Palseocrinoidea. 



Part II, Family Spheeroidocrinidse 177 



/ S^ b 1^ "> 





PROCEEDINGS 



OF THE 



ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OP 



PHILADELPHIA. 



1881. 



January 4, 1881. 

 Dr. Jos. Leidy in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



Bhizopods as Food for Young Fishes. — Prof. Leidy remarked 

 that last September he had received a letter from Mr. S. A. Forbes 

 of the Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History, Normal 

 Illinois, stating that the 3'onng of some of the suckers {Catasto- 

 midse), Hi/jjentelium, Myxostoma, etc., " have the intestines packed 

 with tests of Difflugia and Arcella.^'' Later, Mr. Forbes sent two 

 slides, with some of the intestinal contents, for examination. 



The slide with food from the intestine of the large-scaled Mullet 

 Myxostoma macrolepidotum, from Macinaw Creek, contained the 

 following species: 



DiFPLiTGiA GLOBULOSA. Shell of rather coarse sand, with laroer o-rains 

 around the mouth ; mostly in the shape of the segment of an oval" with 

 the oral pole truncated. Most numerous form. 



Measurements of a number were c^s follows : 



1. Shell 0.18 mm. long ; 0.162 broad ; oral end, 0.103 broad. 



0.18 



0.156 



0.174 



0.198 

 0.198 



0.156 



0.15 



0.156 



0.168 



0.31 



0.103 

 0.073 

 0.09 

 0.096 

 108 



Difflugia acuminata. Shell mostly slightly unsymmetrical • some 

 with a slight neck, straight or slightly everted at the mouth ; a few with 

 3 




10 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



two points to the summit ; usually of minute sand and comparatively 

 smooth. One oblique form noticed (No. G), approaching D. constricfa. 



1. Shell 0.18 mm. long ; 0.108 broad ; oral end 0.06 broad. 



2. Shell of same size, but with a short neck, slightly erected and 



undulant at the border. 



3. Shell 0.18 mm. long ; 0.114 broad ; oral end 0.048 broad. 



4. " 0.198 " " 0.103 " " 0.06 " 



5. " 0.18 " " 0.114 " " 0.06 " 



6. *' 0.163 " " 0.09 " " 0.06 " 



Nos. 1-3 of fine sand, and smooth ; Nos. 4-6 of coarser sand. 



The slide with food of Eremyzon succetta. The material apparently 

 consisted of the superficial sediment of the water, and contained entomos- 

 tracans, rotifers, dipterous larvae, desmids, diatoms, etc., together with 

 the following : 



DiPFLUGiA GLOBOLOSA. Shell 0.15 mm. long, 0.138 broad; oral end 

 0.078 broad. 



DiFFLUGiA L0B08T0MA. Shell with trilobed mouth, 0.09 mm. long, 

 0.078 broad ; mouth 0.03 wide. Several measvired of the same size ; 

 others slightly smaller. The most common species present. 



DiFFLUGiA PYRiFORMis. Shell 0.43 mm. long, 0.31 broad, at mouth 

 0.09 broad. 



Arcella vulgaris. Variety with pitted shell. 



Arcella discoides. Shell 0.18 mm. broad, mouth 0.036 wide. Another 

 specimen 0.15 broad, with mouth 0.054 wide. 



Another rhizopod shell observed, was diflferent from any pre- 

 viously noticed. The shell had the form of that of Arcella dis- 

 coides, with no trace of the structure characteristic of that of 

 Arcella, but composed of a nearly colorless or pale yellowish 

 chitinoid substance, incorporated with minute spherical granules 

 of uniform size, darkly outlined, scattered irregularl}^, isolated, or 

 in little groups or chains, straight or irregular, and in pairs, or up 

 to five in number. The specimens measured about 0.105 mm. 

 broad, with the mouth 0.03 wide. A chain of five granules of the 

 shell measured 0.009 mm. long. 



It is certainly an interesting observation of Mr. Forbes, to dis- 

 cover that the young suckers should use the rhizopod shells to 

 olitain as nutriment their little stores of delicate protoplasm. 



January 11. 

 Dr. John L. Le Conte in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



A paper entitled "Descriptions of new species of Terrestrial 

 Mollusca of Cuba," by Rafael Arango, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 11 



January 18. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



January 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



Jos. J. Knox and Geo. H. Rex, M. D., were elected members. 

 Chas. Velain, of Paris, was elected a correspondent. 



February 1. 

 Mr. Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



February 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-seven persons present. 



Note on Treeless Prairies. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 the absence of timber or arborescent growth on the grassy prairies 

 of America, still continued to be a matter of controversy, but he 

 believed that in the light of accumulating evidence, we mip-ht 

 now come to a positive decision in regard to the question. The 

 most prevalent belief had been that trees would not grow on 

 these prairies, — and we have had theories relating to soil or 

 climate, to show why they could not grow. Then there were 

 others who believed that trees did grow there in ancient times, 

 but had been burnt off, and kept burnt off by annual fires. 



Mr. Meehan considered in detail, the authors who had pro- 

 pounded various theories, and the distinguished men who had ad- 

 vocated them, and said that it was evident climate could have 

 nothing to do with the question, because in these prairie regions 

 there were often large belts of timber lands, projected like huge 

 arms into the grassy regions, with precisely the same climatal 

 conditions over both. That the soil was not unfavorable, was 

 proved now by the artificial plantations everywhere successful 

 and that the soil was unfavorable to the germination of tree seed 

 as suggested by Prof. Whitney, was on the face of it untenable 




12 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



from the foct that it required but the same conditions for the 

 seeds of trees as for those of lierbaceous plants, the number of 

 species of which on the prairies was well known to be very large. 

 Another great gain to our present knowledge, was that since the 

 annual firing of the grass}^ prairies had been discontinued by the 

 advance of civilization, the timber was everywhere encroaching 

 on them. Among the facts which he otfered in proof of this, was 

 a reference to p. 505 of the Yth Report of the Geological Survey of 

 Indiana, where Dr. Schneck shows how land which was once grassy 

 prairie, is now covered with a luxuriant growth of forest trees ; to 

 the evidence of Major Hotchkiss, Geologist of Staunton, Vir- 

 ginia, that the Shenandoah Vallej', now heavily timbered, was 

 clear of trees in the early history of Virginia ; to the discovery 

 of buffalo bones, in caves near Stroudsburg, Pa., by Dr. Joseph 

 Leidy, — now a timbered region, the buffalo only existing in open, 

 grassy countries ; ^ and to various traditions of settlers in some 

 valleys now timbered, that the land was originally clear of trees. 

 He pointed out that in all known parts of the United States at 

 the present time, except the arid regions, where only drought- 

 loving plants could exist, the natural result of freedom was the 

 succession of forest growth. Seeds were scattered by winds or 

 animals over acres of cleared land ; if such land became neglected, 

 these, again seeding in time, extended the forest area continu- 

 ally'. The tallest growing vegetation, lilic trees, crowded out the 

 weaker, and the forest naturally crowded out the lower growing 

 and weaker herbaceous plants. He illustrated this by reference 

 to the neglected cotton-fields of the Southern States. 



From all this, the speaker said that it was evident that there 

 was nothing in Nature either now or in the past, to prevent the 

 gradual encroachment of the forest over the grassy plains, till long 

 before the white man came here, the whole would have been com- 

 pletely covered by arborescent growth. Were there any artificial 

 causes equal to the exclusion of trees, and j^et permitting an her- 

 baceous growth ? If we were to sow a piece of land in the 

 autumn with some tree seed and some seeds of annuals, the latter 

 would be up, flower, mature and scatter their seed to the ground 

 before the next autumn, and many of these seeds would be washed 

 into the earth, or drawn into the eai'th by insects or small animals. 

 But tree seed would make young trees, which would not again 

 produce seed for ten or more years. If now, at the end of this 

 first season, a fire swept over the tract, the seeds of the annuals 

 which had found a slight earthy protection, would come up 

 again the next summer, again seeding and extending the area. 

 The trees would be burned down, and though perhaps many would 

 sprout, successive bui-nings would keep them confined to one 

 place. In short, under annual burnings, herbaceous plants could 



> Since the reading of the paper, it has been brought to the attention of 

 the author, that the bones may have belonged to the Wood Buffalo. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 13 



still increase their area annually, but trees could never get far 

 beyond the line they had reached when the annual fire first com- 

 menced. There could be no doubt that an annual burning in a 

 tract destitute of forest growth, would certainly prevent the 

 spread of timber, or of any plant that required more than a year to 

 mature seed from the time of sowing. Now, if we look at the 

 actual facts, we find that the Indians did annually fire the prairies. 



Father Hennepin, the earliest writer on Indian habits, noted 

 that it was the practice in his time. There is little doubt but this 

 practice of annual burning has been one extending long into the 

 past. What object had they in these annual burnings ? They 

 must have known that the buflTalo and other animals on which 

 they were largely dependent for a living, throve only on huge 

 grassy plains, and that it was to their interest to preserve these 

 plains by every means in their power. Low as their power of 

 reasoning may be, they could not but have perceived that while 

 grassy herbage throve in spite of fires, perhaps improved under 

 the fiery ordeal, trees could not follow on burned laud. What 

 could be more natural than that they would burn the prairies with 

 the object of retaining food for their wild animals ? If we have no 

 difficulty in reaching a positive conclusion so far, we may now 

 take a glance at the early geological times. Mr. Meehan then re- 

 ferred to the researches of Worthen, Whittlesley and others in 

 Ohio, Illinois and other prairie regions. On the retreat of the 

 great glacier, the higher lands and drift formation were probably 

 high and dry long before the immense lakes formed from the 

 melting and turbid waters ceased to be. 



It was tolerably well understood that many species of trees 

 and other plants which required a temperate atmosphere, retreated 

 southward!}^ with the advance of the glacier, and advanced to 

 higher latitudes on the glacier's retreat. Thus these higher ridges 

 would become timbered long before the lower lands became dry. 

 Evidence accumulates that man existed on this continent, in the 

 far west, not long after the glacier retreated, though '"not long," 

 in a geological sense, may mean many hundreds of years. The 

 lakes of glacial water would gradually become shallower from 

 the deposit of the highly comminuted material brought down 

 from higher land, from the wearing away of rocky breastwoi'ks as 

 in South Pass, Illinois, as well as from the openings which would 

 continually occur from nature's ever varying plan of streams 

 under ground. In all events, the drying of these lakes would be 

 from their outward edges first. Aquatics would give way to 

 marsh grasses, and these to vegetation such as we now find gener- 

 ally spread over the prairie region. If now we can conceive 

 of human beings such as we know the Indian races to be, al- 

 ready in more southern latttudes — having learned the fact that 

 firing would keep down trees and aid in the preservation of the 

 chase — following the retreat of the glacier to the higher lands, and 

 still as they advanced northwardly, firing the plains up to the 




14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY 'OP [1881. 



water's edge, it would certainly account for tlie absence of ar- 

 boreal vegetation from these immense lacustrine lands from the 

 ver}- beginning of their formation. Of course with this view we 

 should have to look for some evidences of man's existence, both on 

 the lands which were once under water, as well as those which were 

 timber lands at his first appearance there. He did not know how 

 many such evidences have been or ma}^ be found. Man's traces in 

 the past are at best but rare, and they would naturally be much 

 more scarce in the lacustrine regions than in lands dry at the 

 same epoch. At any rate, this part of his remarks he said, must 

 be taken as mere speculation ; but, as we could see on the basis of 

 sound scientific investigation why there could be no trees on 

 these grassy prairies within the range of indubitable history, it 

 was a fair inference that some such cause had continued from the 

 beginning; namely, that annual fires had ever been the reason why 

 arborescent vegetation had never had an existence there. 



The resignation of Mr. Edw. S. Whelen, as a member of the 

 Council and Finance Committee, was read and accepted. 



February 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



A paper entitled " The Honey Ants of the Garden of the Gods," 

 by Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D., was presented for publication. 



February 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



The death of Harry C. Hart, M. D., a member, was announced. 



Mr. Isaac C. Martindale was elected a member of the Finance 

 Committee, to fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. 

 Edw. S. Whelen. 



Mr. Charles P. Perot was elected a member of the Council for 

 the unexpired term of Mr. Whelen. 



Robert P. Field was elected a member. 



John Brazier, of Sydne}^, N. S. W. ; Rafael Arango, of Habana, 

 and Chas. Mohr, of Mobile, Ala., were elected correspondents. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



15 



DESCKIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES OF TERRESTRIAL MOLLUSCA OF CUBA. 



BY RAFAEL ARANGO. 

 Choanopoma acervatnm Arango. 



Testa obtecte-umbilicata, ovato-oblonga, plerumque decollata, 

 tenuis, plicis transversis irregulariter et costulis spiralibus dis- 

 tantibus undulatiin et acervatiminterruptis lamellata, 

 albida, anfractus 6 (superstites 3^-4) convexi, lente 

 acrescentes ad suturam canaliculatam (ob plicarum 

 extremitatem) denticulati, ultimus aufractui coutigui 

 callo adnatus ; apertura eircularis, peritrema dupli- 

 catum, interniim rectum, externum patens, concentrice striatum 

 et ob costulas spirales testae undulatum, ad anfractum contiguum 

 Galium tbrmans, turn umbilicum lamina lata fornicata tegens. 

 Long. 8^-9^ ; diam. 4^5 mill. 



Differt ab Choan. Tryoni Arango primo visu costulis spiralibus, 

 ab sordido imprimis plicis testas undulata interrupta. 



Habitat. — Las Lagunitas prope Pinar del Rio partis occidentalis 

 in plantatione dicta " Yega de D. Manuel de Jesus Hernandez." 

 Cylindrella paradoza Arango. 



Testa sine umbilico, fusiformi-turrita, solidula, albida, costis 

 subrectis confertis munita, Integra, apice obtusiuscula, 

 anfractus 12-13 convexi, penultimus longitudinaliter in 

 medio canaliculatus, ejusdem pars superior reliquis an- 

 fractibus igualis quoad sculpturam, inferior angustior, 

 reducta, costulis magis aproximatis, dein dilatata et 

 umbilicum tegens. Apertura piriformis, obliqua, superne 

 angustior ob carinam salientem partis superioris anfrac- 

 tus. Peritrema continuum, undique ffiqualiter expansum. Col- 

 umna interna simplex. Long. 12^ ; diam. 2^ mill. 



Habitat. — Guane in loco " Puerta de la Muralla " dicto. 



Cylindrella incerta Arango. 



Testa quoad sculpturam et columnam internam 

 simillima Cylindrellse cserulans Poey, sed forma ven- 

 troso-cylindracea et anfr. superst. 8 (in testa Integra 

 14). 



Long. 18 ; diam. 4^, testa Integra. 



Long. 14i ; diam. 4^, testa fracta. 



Habitat. — Guane in loco " Puerta de la Muralla " 

 dicto 




16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Ctenopoma nodiferum Arango n. sp. 



Testa clauso-perforata, cylinclraceo-turrita, decollata, tenuis, 

 plicis aequaliter distantibus et liris debilibus decussata, cineracenti- 

 albida, anfr. 3^-4 superstites convexi, lente accrescentes, ad 

 suturam canaliculatam subdenticulati ; ultimus subdisjunctis pone 

 aperturam callo lato cum penultimo anfractu junctus ; apertura 

 verticalis, obliqua, ovalis ; peritrema duplicatum, internum rectum, 

 externum subaequaliter patens, sed superne dilatatum, anfractum 

 contiguum attingens et umbilicum claudens. Operculum typicum 

 generis. Long, testse truncatae 8 ; diam. 3 ; apert. 2 mill. 



Simile Ctenopomati nodulato ; sed differt testa plicis aequaliter 

 distantibus (nee acervatim approximatis et liras decussata). 



Habitat. — Sub lapidibus circa oppitum Santo Gristo de la Salud 

 prope Bejucal. 



Ctenopoma Wrightianam Gundl. n. sp. 



Testa subperforata, cylindraceo-turrita, decollata, costis sequali- 

 ter distantibus obtusis et liris subtilissimis decussata, cineracenti- 

 albida, anfr. de superstites, convexi, lente accrescentes, ad suturam 

 canaliculatam denticulati ; ultimus subdisjunctus pone aperturam 

 callo lato cum penultimo anfractu junctus ; apertura verticalis, 

 oblique ovali-rotundato ; peritrema duplicatum internum rectum, 

 externum subaequaliter patens, sed superne non dilatatum itaque 

 anfractum penultimum non attingens. Operculum typicum generis. 

 Long, testae truncatte 11 ; diam. 5 ; apert. 2^ mill. 



Proximum Ctenopomati ruguloso sed distinctum costis testse 

 obtusis (nee acutis) et liris decussata. 



Habitat. — Sub lapidibus loci Punta de la Jaula dicti in Proviucia 

 Pinar del Rio, partis occidentalis. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. IT 



THE HONEY ANTS OF THE GARDEN OF THE GODS. 



By Rev. Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



I. — Geographical Distribution, 



The peculiarity in the Honey Ants (Myrmecocystus melliger) 

 which has attracted the especial attention of naturalists is that 

 one of the castes or worker forms has the abdomen distended to the 

 size and form of a currant or small grape, and entirely filled with 

 grape-sugar or " honey." 



Yery little of their habits has heretofore been known, and onl^^ 

 the forms of the hone3-bearer and worker-major. In order, if 

 possible, to remove this reproach from Entomology, I started in 

 the early part of July, A, D. 18T9, for New Mexico, as the honey- 

 ants have been found in the neighborliood of Santa Fe, and even 

 as far north as Abiquiu, on the Big Chama River.^ 



During a brief visit at the cottage of Gen. Charles Adams, ^ of 

 Manitou, Colorado, which is located in the mouth of the Garden 

 of the gods, in the course of some observations made upon the 

 ants of the vicinit}'^, a nest was discovered whose external archi- 

 tecture was new to me. The sentinels were called out hy the 

 application of a straw, and their general appearance raised the 

 suspicion that they might be Honey Ants, which, as I had never 

 seen specimens, were known to me only b}^ description. The nest 

 was opened, and the delightful fact revealed that the objects of 

 my search were before me. I thereupon made an exploration of 

 the vicinity, and found that the nests were present in sufficient 

 numbers for purposes of study ; whereupon I abandoned m}' New 

 Mexico outfit, encamped in the Garden of the gods, and began 

 the observations of which the following paper is the record. 



Up to the time of my discovery, it had not been known that 

 the Honey Ants were distributed as far north as Colorado. I 

 found no formicaries at any other point in the State, although the 

 opportunity to search for them was limited. There is little doubt, 



^ At the latter point Prof. Edward D. Cope informed me that he had 

 seen them. Dr. Loew and ^Ir. Krummeck saw them near Santa Fe. 



^ Gen. Adams has recently been widely known by his intrepid venture 

 among the hostile White River Ute Indians, and rescue of their unhappy 

 prisoners, Mrs. Meeker and others, at the risk of his own life. As a recog- 

 nition of this service he has been appointed Minister Plenipotentiary for 

 the United States to the Republic of Bolivia, 




2 Matamoras, Mex., 



50 " Lano-stroth 



18 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881' 



however, that they ma}^ be found in favorable locations in the 

 entire soutliern portion of the state, and perhaps also north of the 

 latitude of Pike's Peak.^ Mexico, New Mexico and southern 

 Colorado, may certainly be designated as the natural habitat of 

 the Honey Ants. It is probable, however, that they may be found 

 throughout the entire south-western portions of North America, 

 especiall^^ the uplands. They will doubtless be found west of the 

 Rockj' Mountains, as I have recently found one female of this 

 species among a collection of Hymenoptera sent to Mr. Cresson 

 from southern California. 



The following facts can be presented concerning the vertical 

 distribution : — 



LiOOAi/iTY. Elevation. Observer. 



City of Mexico, . . . T482 feet, Llave. 



Brownsville, U. S.,) * ' 



Santa Fe, 7047 " Loew, Kummeck. 



Abiquiu, 5930 " Cope. 



Garden of the gods, . . 6181 " McCook. 



It will thus be seen that the points at which these insects have 

 heretofore been found, lie for the most part upon uplands, ranging 

 from 6000 to 7500 feet in height above sea level. Mr. Langstroth's 

 find is recorded as "in the vicinity of Matamoras."^ If this 

 means the near vicinity, the fact prevents the generalization which 

 one might otherwise have been tempted to form, limiting the ants 

 to the upland, for Matamoras has but a slight elevation. 



II. — Nest Sites and Exterior Architecture. 



The Honey Ants are domiciled in large numbers throughout 

 the section of country known as the Garden of the gods. 



The conformation of the surface here appears to be an im- 

 portant element in determining the habitat of the insects, and 

 deserves a brief notice. The Garden of the gods embraces a 



1 The matter of their distribution is a point to which the attention of 

 entomologists and other naturalists is called, and any information bearing 

 thereupon will be of value. 



^ I could not lay hands upon the elevations of Matamoras, which cannot 

 vary much from that of Brownsville, Texas, on the opposite side of the 

 river. 



3 "Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila.," vol. vi, 1852, p. 71. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPHTA. 



19 



space of about two miles in length by one in -width, the surface of 

 which is broken into ridges crossing each other at various angles, 

 and crowned or bordered at the top by the red sandstone and 

 conglomerate rocks, whose peculiar shapes and likenesses to 

 heathen deities have probablj- suggested the name given to this 

 bit of landscape. A rude idea of the topography may be had by 

 drawing a horse-shoe, the toe toward the north ; within the mouth 

 of this let a second horse-shoe be described, occupying about one- 

 half the space in width and one-third in length. Unite the toes of 



•HV"/'/ 





:'i:h^r^i>^ 



^'^^v- fff.-'w^^**' 



Fis. 1.— Sketch-map of the Garden of the gods. 



the two shoes by a zig-zag line, and draw lines east and west, on 

 either side from the interior figure. The western line of the out- 

 side shoe will represent the Manitou ridge, which starts at the 

 base of Pike's Peak. The eastern line will indicate the cretaceous 

 wall of the table-land known as the Mesa, and the two walls of 

 the Red Canyon. The inner shoe has for its western line the Von 

 Hagen ridge, for its eastern the Adams ridge ; the east and west 

 lines will represent the general course of the- ridges which drop 

 down from these two, from the broken central ridge, Prospect 

 ridge, represented hy the zig-zag line, and from the eastern face 

 of Manitou ridge. These ridges are composed of red sandstone, 

 which crops out freely, forming vast ledges and cliffs. The top 

 soil, where the rock is not exposed, is a heavy gravel, upon which 

 grow tufts of gramma grass, straggling bunches of grease wood, 




20 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Spanish bayonet, low cedars and pine, and in the little vales or 

 nooks wild sunflowers, wild roses, and numerous small thickets 

 and clusters ol' a scrub oak (Quercus undulata). These localities 

 are indicated diagramatically in the sketch-map at Fig. 1. 



All along the tops of these ridges, and on the eastern and 

 south-eastern slopes, the nests of the Honey Ants arc located 

 (PL I, fig. 2 ^). About ninety per cent, of those found were on 

 the tops of the ridges, and every one on or near the summit or 

 central line of the top. The choosing of such a site may, there- 

 fore, be inferred to be a fixed habit of the ant. 



The advantage of this location is apparent, at least in the 

 points of dryness and warmth. I made several observations of 

 the effects of the heavy July and August rain storms upon the 

 exterior architecture, which is a low, gravel-covered moundlet, 

 penetrated at the centre by a tubular gallery or gate three-fourths 

 of an inch in diameter (PI. II, figs, 3, 4). The large gravel-covered 

 mounds of the Occidental Ant {Pogonomyrmex occidentalism Cres- 

 son), numbers of which were built in the vallej^ of the Boiling 

 Fountain Creek, and in the nooks between the ridges, were more 

 or less damaged by the wash of the water. Some were seriously 

 injured, one wholly swept away. The only damage wrought upon 

 the Honey Ant nests was a little beating down of the pellets of 

 gravel within the gate. There was no injury from the wash of the 

 water, and apparently no likelihood of any beyond that which the 

 momentum of the rain-drops could inflict as they dashed upon the 

 nest and within the gate. Throughout one storm, during the 

 entii'c progress of which a nest was watched, several ants were 

 stationed like sentinels within the gate around the upper margin 

 (PI. Y, fig. 25). They were evidently on the look out for any 

 damages to their home. The disarrangement of a few pellets 

 moved two of these sentinels to bring up bits of gravel and 

 attempt repairs. But there was little occasion for this, although 

 the force of the rain was great enough to cause a good deal of 

 discomfort to the observer. In half an hour the rain ceased, the 

 sun came out over Pike's Peak, and a rainbow girdled the Mesa. 

 One worker-major crawled upon the crest of the nest, stretched 

 herself, reared her head as though to snuff the fresh air, then 



1 This is a sketch of my camp, from the point at which the Adams and 

 Von Hagen ridges meet. One of the ant-nests is seen in the foreground ; 

 others are indicated by the white circles on the crests of the ridges. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 21 



hurried down the gravel side and started at a swinging pace along 

 the trail to a neighboring oak copse. An hour afterward she had 

 not returned, and not another ant had left the ne^t. Several, 

 howcA^er, came out, hut apparently were disturbed by a gale which 

 followed the rain, and returned. 



On another occasion, the slight disarrangement of the nest 

 made bj'^ the rain was repaired immediately after the storm. It 

 amounted to a closing up of the greater part of the entrance by 

 some of the displaced gravel-stones along the crater. 



The exterior architecture has been referred to as a small 

 mouudlet of gravel.^ The largest seen was one on one of the 

 ridges quite within the Garden ; it measured arouhd the base 

 thirty-two inches, in height three and one-half inches, length of 

 northern slope four and one-half inches (PI. II, fig. 3). The 

 average dimension of the nests is something less than this. The 

 base diameter varies from ten to three and one-third inches, 

 the greatest number of nests measuring six and seven inches.^ 

 The ordinar}- height is from two to three inches. The shape of 

 the nests is a truncated cone. The section across the top is about 

 two inches in diameter. In the centre is a tubular opening or 

 gate, fiom three-fourths to seven-eighths inch in diameter .^ 



III — Position or Honey-Bearers in the JsTest. 



Leaving the details of the architecture to a later period, that habit 

 which attaches the greatest interest to this insect, viz. , the storing of 

 honey, may be considered. The first nest that was opened, and 

 called the " Bessie " nest,^ for convenience of notation, is on the 

 terminal slope of Adams' ridge, looking due south, and quite near 

 to the valley of the creek Fontaine qui Bouille. The gravel had 



^ Dr. Oscar Loew, "American Naturalist," 1874, says of Melligera col- 

 lected near Santa Fe, that "they make no hills, like other ants." "A 

 structure like a crater indicates where they live underground." Every 

 formicary seen by me had a decided elevation. 



^ I succeeded in bringing one of these mounds home nearly entire, having 

 fixed the gravel contents by liquid cement. 



* Dr. Loew says of the nests near Santa Fe, that the openings were the 

 size of a quill. It seems strange that such a difference should exist within 

 localities so near each other. 



* A little girl, Bessie Root, a guest in Gen. Adams' cottage, whom I had 

 enlisted in the search for ant-hills, first reported to me the nest in which I 

 found the ^lelligers. 




22 PEOOEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



not been penetrated to a depth oi more than six inches before 

 a honoj^-chamber was uncovered, and the presence of the honey- 

 bearers indicated that a home of the true Hone}' Ant had been 

 found (PL III, fig. 5). Within a dome-roofed vault, about three 

 inches in width and three-quarters to one inch in height, hung the 

 hone^^-bearers, clinging by their feet to the roof. Their yellow 

 bodies stretched along the ceiling, but the rotund abdomens hung 

 down, almost perfect globules of transpalrent tissue, through which 

 the amber-colored honey showed. They looked like a cluster of 

 small Delaware grapes or large currants. Most of the abdomens 

 were quite round, but they were in various stages of fullness. 

 Upon some the external membrane of the abdomen was gathered 

 in folds. A few of the abdomens, and especially those but little 

 distended, were of a white instead of amber color. 



I have observed that the honey-bearers in my artificial nests 

 show the honey, which has been gathered from white sugar, quite 

 white and translucent. It is probable that the color becomes 

 amber, and even a wine color, with age. When the abdomen is 

 full it fairly shines, reflecting the light that falls upon it from the 

 lamp. With most of the honey-bearers the abdomens hang 

 downward without touching the ceiling, except at the rotundity 

 near the base, and often not even at that point. With some, 

 however, the whole lower part of the abdomen rests against the 

 roof (PI. IV, fig. 13). This appears to depend chiefly upon the 

 contour of the perch, and not upon the relative degree of comfort 

 to the ant in the two positions. 



The roof of the honey-chamber is different in structure from the 

 floor, the latter being comparatively smooth, while the former is 

 rough, being the natural granulated surface left after the picking 

 away of the sandy soil. This character, of course, enables the 

 honey-bearer to cling more easily and securely to her perch. This 

 position is not held by the mandibles clasping the rugose dome 

 with their sharp teeth, but almost exclusively^ by the feet, whose 

 claws, hairs and pulvuli all doubtless contribute to the effect. 



Judging from observations upon artificial nests and from the 

 utter unwieldiness and helplessness of the fully charged bearers, 

 they are not much disposed to change their roost after once taking 

 it, at least after they have reached a considerable degree of 

 rotundity. But the statements generally made by writers, that 

 they are wholly unable to move, and never change position, are 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23 



inferences without the facts. They are not unable to move, and 

 in point of fact do occasionally move their positions. Those 

 -whose abdomens are but half or even two-thirds the full globose, 

 I have frequently seen coming out of their chambers, ascending 

 the galleries and moving freely about the surface. Those with 

 full globes can move about with no little agility when placed upon 

 a table, or when exposed in their nests to some unusual danger or 

 alarm. In the nests they slide along from point to point, moving 

 their feet sidewise, and so make changes of position. 



Fallen Honey-bearers Helpless. — If once they loosen their 

 hold, however, and fall to the floor, they seem ordinarily helpless to 

 recover. Numbers of my full honey-bearers dropping from various 

 causes, or shaken down by thoughtless visitors, laid upon the 

 floor helpless, resting upon the rotund abdomen, bodies up, 

 antennae and feet in motion, and seeming exceedingly uncomfort- 

 able. Those who so fell as to have some object upon which to 

 lay their feet, as a clod or the surface of the jar, fared better. In 

 very favorable positions a few recovered their roost. But as a 

 rule they were helpless, remained stationary, and so passed their 

 lives, which were evidently shortened by their position, although 

 some of them lived thus several months (see PI. YI, fig. 32). 



lY. — Source of Honey-Supply. 



The rotunds do not elaborate the honey, as has frequently been 

 asserted. I was not for a moment misled by this fancy, being 

 satisfied that, in the nature of things they were sedentary, and that 

 their immense abdomens were charged by regurgitation from 

 the workers who were the honey gatherers. But whence do they 

 obtain their supplies ? 



Not from Aphides, at this season of the year at least. I 

 searched every bush and shrub in the vicinity, including large 

 numbers of wild rose bushes, but failed to find any of these familiar 

 and useful Emmet " herds." Certainly, at least, the honey ants 

 were not there drawing supplies from them. It was not possible 

 to trace the ants to these or other sources of food supply during 

 the day, for I found very soon that they were nocturnal insects. 

 Their nests were as silent, and to all appearance empty, as an 

 abandoned habitation, during the daytime. I accordingly stationed 

 myself beside a nest to await the nightfall. This nest was located 

 upon the summit of a ridge which from a peculiar formation of a 




24 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OE* [1881. 



rock upon it I named Eagle-head ridge, and the nest Eagle-head 

 nest. At T.30 P. M., the sun was set, and darkness had begun to 

 gather. A few ants appeared within the gate. They advanced 

 to the top, followed by others ; they puslied out upon the gravelled 

 sides of the mound, over which a goodly swarm of yellow insects 

 was soon gathered. There were no rotunds or semi-rotunds among 

 these mustering squadrons ; all were workers, with normal abdo- 

 mens. 



Presently an ant left the mound and started over the ridge 

 northward. Another — several — a score followed, until within a 

 brief time a vast column was seen trailed along the ridge, all 

 moving in the same direction. The evening had now become so 

 far advanced that it was ditBcult to trace the column, but b}'^ 

 stooping down close to the earth and using care not to alarm the 

 ants, I was able to do so. The trail was somewhat winding, but 

 on the whole seemed to be chosen with some regard to avoiding 

 the inequalities of the ridge. I was not impressed, however, 

 with the engineering skill of the insects in this matter. 



At the distance of about fifty feet from the nest, the column 

 turned down the slope and entered a copse of scrub oak ( Quercus 

 undidata, var.), I traced a number of ants to a bush several feet 

 within the thicket, but failed to unravel the secret that night. 

 The next night a similar experience awaited me. After a long 

 careful, but vain search, I retired to my tent baffled. The third 

 night (July 29), the ants of Eagle head next came out at 7.23 

 P. M. Those on Toad-stone ridge, to which I had assigned my 

 assistant, Johnson, came out at 1.25 P. M., but did not begin to 

 move until 7.44. Johnson followed them, but failed to find their 

 feeding ground. They moved north and eastward, as did those 

 of the Eagle head. These latter began to move almost as soon 

 as they came out. Thej^ followed the same trail as on the previous 

 evening, the track having beem marked by me. The movement 

 was somewhat slower than before, perhaps because the trail had 

 been washed by a heavy rain during the afternoon. There was no 

 leader. A dwarf worker kept in advance over the greater part of 

 the track, then a worker minor took the head of the column. 

 The two were separated from each other, and the van of the 

 column about eight to ten inches. There was, however, not the 

 slightest evidence of any leadership at any time, in any part of 

 the moving line, although I carefully looked for such. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 25 



The ants directed tlieir movements to the same tree as on for- 

 mer forays, reaching it in seventeen minutes,, at 7.40 P, M. They 

 distributed themselves along the tree, hunting trunk, branches, 

 leaves. I could trace their forms, but when it is remembered that 

 I was wedged in among the thick, low branches of this dwarf 

 oak, holding up a lantern with one hand, and using the other to 

 clear space for it ; that the necessity' to avoid alarming the timid 

 insects compelled me to retain ver}'' inconvenient positions for a 

 long time, it will riot seem strange that I could find nothing satis- 

 factory until between nine and ten o'clock. At last, in course of the 

 slow investigations, I reached the extreme end of a branch on 

 the south side of the tree, and found a number of ants engaged 

 upon clusters of brownish-red galls. The ants were moving from 

 gall to gall, not tarrying for any length of time upon any. They 

 applied their mouth organs to the galls frequently. The dimness 

 of the light, and the distance which I was compelled to keep, pre- 

 vented me from seeing anything more than this. But it was plain 

 that the}^ were obtaining honey stores, for in the lantern light it 

 could be seen that their abdomens were alreadj^ much distended 

 by the sweets which they had lapped. 



The branch was carefully cut off without disturbing the ants, 

 taken to my tent, and the movements of the insects observed 

 during the remainder of the night, the branch having been so 

 placed as to prevent the escape of the ants, who were 3'et easily 

 under view. They, however, were so preoccupied with their 

 honey gathering, that they made little effort to escape. 



Directing attention to the galls, it was seen that some of them 

 were gradually exuding minute globules of a white transparent 

 liquid, which the ants greedily licked. I tasted the liquor, and 

 found that it was verj' sweet and pleasant. The object of the 

 nocturn'al expedition of the ants, and the source of their hone}'- 

 supply, were thus revealed. These galls are of various sizes, from 

 that of a currant downward. Most of them were of a Turk's-head 

 shape, some flattened spheres. They are placed in groups of two 

 and more along the stems of the branches ; they are commonly of 

 reddish-brown color, marked with black patches, but some of them 

 are of a brighter tint, almost rose-color, some of a livid yellow 

 marked with black, some almost green. By cutting off a few of 

 the clusters and removing them from the ants, I saw that the 

 sugar}' sap issued from several points upon the gall, which in some 




26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



cases became beaded with six or more globules, several times 

 larger than a pin-head. By removing these beads successively, I 

 found that during the night one gall gave out at least three series. 

 The continual flitting of the ants from branch to branch and gall 

 to gall, was thus explained : the successive exudations invited 

 their frequent return to the galls from which they had formerly 

 fed. When the branch had first been brought to the tent, some 

 of the gall-bearing twigs had been clipped off and placed within 

 the artificial nests, but received no attention from the ants. Some 

 of the bleeding galls were now introduced, which were instantly 

 covered by the ants, and soon cleaned of their beaded sweets. 

 An examination of the first galls explained the reason for their 

 neglect — they were sapless. 



Nectar-producing Galls. — A number of galls of various sorts 

 and sizes, was collected for dissection. They were readily divided 

 into two classes (1), the livid and greenish galls which were soft 

 and entire ; (2) the darker colored ones which were hard, unjneld- 

 ing to the touch, and pierced at one side by a small, smooth, reg- 

 ular, cylindrical cavity. It soon appeared that the bleeding of 

 honey -sap was confined to the first class. Upon cutting away the 

 soft pulpy fruit (if it may be so termed), a hard whitish-green 

 ovoid cell, not unlike a cherry seed, was found at the centre. It 

 was about one-eighth inch in diameter. Lying outside of and 

 against this, in a little cavity, I found in one gall a minute, living- 

 grub (PI. Ill, fig. 12). The body was white, of eleven segments, 

 the head tipped with a brownish hue. The inner cell when opened, 

 showed a spherical cavity in which was a very minute gelatinous 

 pyriform object, which adhered to the side of the cavity. I had 

 no microscope with me, and in lieu of facts, can only conjecture 

 that this may have been an embryonic form of an insect, which 

 matures later in the season. * 



The hard galls were next dissected. They are all pierced on 

 one side, invariably near the base (figs. 10, 11), by a circular open- 

 ing made by the matured gall-insect in its escape. Fig. 11 repre- 

 sents one of these, a turban-shaped gall, magnified about three 

 times the natural size. A section view of the gall (fig. 10) shows 

 that the exit hole (eh) penetrates the interior cell-ease, which 

 must therefore serve as the cocoon in which the pupa transforms. 

 Inside of some of these cells I found traces of a flossy texture. 

 The cells are commonly spherical, but (as in fig. 10) sometimes 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t 



egg-shaped. They are separate from the rest of the gall, from 

 which they quite differ in appearance, and are of a firmer sub- 

 stance. In fig, 10, the gall is three-sixteenths of an inch in 

 length, of which the cell occupies two-thirds, that is, one-eighth 

 of an inch. The largest gall observed had an outside measure- 

 ment of three-eights inch long and the same across the top. In 

 one of the galls opened, I found an imperfect insect (imago), 

 which is identified b}' Mr. E. T. Cresson as of the genus Cynips, 

 a true gall-fl3^ The specimen would not permit further identifi- 

 tification. 



At the meeting of the American Association for the Advance- 

 ment of Science, held in 1880, at Boston, I had the pleasure of 

 presenting the substance of this paper to the Entomological 

 Section. My account of the extravasation of the galls, as above, 

 caused much comment, the result of which was to confirm the 

 accurac}' of the observation which had been challenged. Prof. 

 C. V. Riley, well known as an entomologist, declared upon his 

 own observations, that many galls exude saccharine matter, citing 

 among others, those of certain Phylloxerae on Hickory, one of 

 which he had named caryae-gummosa on account of the abundance 

 and stickiness of the exudation. Mr. H. F. Bassett, who has made 

 extensive and careful studies of galls, said that he had found 

 many species of galls visited by ants ^ 



Specimens of the oak-gall visited b}' Melliger were sent to Mr. 

 Riley, concerning which he sa.js : The gall is one that is found 

 quite commonly in the Rocky Mountain region on Quercus undu- 



^ American Entomologist, Dec, 1880. The following additional remarks 

 will be interesting in this connection : Mr. E. P. Austin remarked that 

 the chemical composition of sugar and woody fibre are the same, and that 

 sugar could be produced by conversion from woody fibre in the plant. Dr. 

 J. Li Le Conte said that he understood tannin to be a conjugation of gallic 

 acid and sugar. Mr. B. P. Mann suggested that some light might be 

 thrown upon this food-supply of the ants, by the nature of much of the 

 moisture which appears occasionally at night in great abundance on the 

 leaves and other portions of plants, and which is usually mistaken for 

 dew. This moisture, it is said, diflers from dew in being produced under 

 circumstances which would not account for the formation of dew, and in 

 containing a perceptible quantity of sugar. It is the ordinary watery ex- 

 cretion from the surface of the plant, which, under favorable conditions 

 of the atmosphere, collects in beads or in drops, instead of evaporating as 

 rapidly as it is formed. 




28 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



lata, as determined by Dr. Engelmann, ■who sent me the same gall 

 in 18*74, though I had previonsl}' collected it myself. It is, un- 

 doubtedl}-, an undescribed gall, and a A^ery similar one occurs on 

 the Quercus macrocarpa in the Mississippi vallej'. It has the 

 ordinary woody texture that belongs to so many Cynipidous oak- 

 stem galls, and the architect develops in a paler cell that occupies 

 a large part of the interior of the gall. When fresh, the gall is 

 quite bright-colored, inclining to crimson or scarlet. It seldom 

 attains a larger size than an ordinary pea, and differs from similar 

 galls in my cabinet by having frequently a rather broad, flattened 

 crown, though this character is b}' no means constant.^ 



NocTUENAL Habits. — It has already been said that the ants 

 collect the oak-gall nectar by night. Observations daily re- 

 peated upon a number of nests, determined that they leave their 

 nests for the oak thickets at or near V.30 o'clock P. M., and 

 between that hour and 8 o'clock, which is about the time of sun- 

 set in July and August. PreAious to the departure, the crater, 

 gate and exterior of the mound become graduall}^ covered with 

 swarms of insects whose yellow bodies quite hide the red gravel 

 surface of the nest. The marching of the honey-gatherers has 

 already been described, but always there remained a very numer- 

 ous force at home, who were seen at all hours of the night on 

 guard within and around the gate. (PI. V, fig. 25.) The return 

 home began about or a little before midnight, and continued until 

 between four and five, which was near da^'light at that season. 

 One or two extracts from my field notes will indicate the facts on 

 this point. " 11.30 P. M. Some ants returning home ; the move- 

 ment ver}' slow and deliberate. . . . 12.30. Quite a number 

 are now returning. Some are also still going outward. Numbers 

 of workers patrol the moimd and vicinity challenging nearl}' all in- 

 comers, who have to stand the test and give the required satisfac- 

 tion. What is the antennal password ? None of the returning 

 repletes are tolled bj^ the home sentries. . . . This morning 

 at 4,10 A. M. the ants were seen coming in from the oak bushes, 

 most of them well laden, but others not so full. There are 

 evidentl}^ degrees of success in honey-gathering among them. 

 Some of the dwarfs had very full abdomens. . . . 4.30 A. M. 



^ He suggests for the gall the name Cynips quercuB-mellarm. Am, 

 Ento, Dec. 1880. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 29 



The ants are returning in numbers and rapidly moving from tlie 

 brush to the nest. It is about da3'light." 



In these night observations the light of the lantern seemed to 

 cause the ants in column no little disturbance. They would go 

 toward the lantern as it sat on the ground near the trail, appear 

 to examine it, then move away. It really seemed to confuse their 

 ideas of locality, and shake their confidence as to the site of the 

 trail, although no one was finally thrown off the track therebj'. 

 The sentries at home were alwaj's more or less excited by the 

 light, and delicate manipulation was everywhere required in order 

 to preserve the natural conditions and get the natural behavior. 



At no time were the ants seen during the day except when it 

 rained, and then onl}' a few sentinels appeared at the gate. Ordi- 

 narily the entrance, as far as the eye could see, was entireh' 

 abandoned. It is doubtful if Melliger can endure a great amount 

 of sunlight and heat. While excavating a nest, a number of 

 specimens were collected in a large empty glass bottle, which was 

 set aside fv)r further use. Not more than three minutes afterward 

 when I took up the vessel to insert more specimens, those already 

 collected were dead. The sun had killed them. I was surprised 

 at this ((uick fatal issue, and tried to revive the insects ; but no, 

 they Avere quite dead. The sun was of the usual August tempera- 

 ture, but the bottle was large, and such a result in so brief a time 

 argues extreme sensitiveness to the heat. I have observed that 

 the agricultural ants^ always avoided the noonda}' heats of Texas, 

 which are certainl}- intense ; and indeed all ants appear to me to 

 shun, more or less, the midday fervor of the sun. But Melliger 

 doubtless is more susceptible to solar influences than most of her 

 felloAvs. It cannot therefore be wondered at that she seeks her 

 food under the shelter of night. 



Y. Quality op the Ant Honey. 



A number of the honey-bearers were unavoidabl}' injured and 

 their abdomens broken during the excavations of the nests, and I 

 observed from these the qualitj' of the hone3\ It is ver}- pleasant, 

 with a peculiar aromatic flavor, suggestive of bee-hone}', and quite 

 agreeable to me. Dr. Loew describes it as having " an agreeable 

 taste, slightly acid in summer from a trace of formic acid, but 

 perfectly neutral in autumn and winter.'' It contains, according 



1 Op. cit., p. 18. 




30 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



to this writer, a, little more water than the honey of bees, and has 

 therefore somewhat greater limpidity. 



Fortunately, the com])osition of this ant-honey has been sub- 

 jected to a thorough chemical anal^'sis by a competent authority, Dr. 

 Chas. M. Wetherill.^ The experiments were made at the request 

 of Dr. liCid}'^, from specimens of 31. melliger-mexicanus collected 

 hy Mr. Langstroth at Matamoras, Mexico.^ These ants showed 

 the variations observed b}^ me in the distension of the abdomen, 

 and the amount and color of the honey. Six of the average-sized 

 honey-bearers were weighed, and showed the average weight of the 

 honey-bearer's bod}^ alone (without honey) to be 0*048 grammes, 

 and the average of hone}'' in a single ant 0'3942 grammes. The 

 amount of honej" was therefore 8*2 times greater in weight than 

 the bod}^ without tlie hone3^ The density calculated for the ants 

 filled with honey was 1*28, and for the bodies alone r05. Dr. 

 WetherilFs calculations expressed in English Troy weight would 

 allow about six grains for the weight of each honey-bearer. It 

 would thus require about one thousand (960) honey-bearers to 

 3'ield one pound of honey (Troy weight), or about twelve hundred 

 (1166) to yield a market or avoirdupois pound. 



The sj'rup extracted from the ants had an agreeable sweet taste, 

 and an odor like that of the syrup of squills. When set aside as 

 removed it showed no trace of crystallization to the naked e^^e or 

 under the microscope. Under high powers fragments of organic 

 tissue were seen. When evaporated by the heat of steam, it dried 

 to a gumni}^ mass, which did not exhibit traces of crystallization 

 after standing for a couple of weeks. 



This mass was yery hydroscopic, becoming quickly soft from 

 the absorption of water from the atmosphere. It dissolved with- 

 out residue in ordinary alcohol, leaving a residue in nearly absolute 

 alcohol. These solutions did not crystallize when set aside. 

 They had exactly the smell of perfumed bay rum. After various 

 tests, which are described. Dr. Wetherill analyzed by combustion 

 with oxide of copper and chlorate of potassa a portion of the gum- 

 .ke substance which resulted after the ant-honej^ had been left in 

 v^acuo for two weeks. As this was not perfectly hard, but of a 

 sticky nature, it was necessary to introduce it into the combustion 



1 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., Vol. VI, pp. Ill, 112, 1852. 

 '^ I have some of these still in good condition after twenty-nine years' 

 preservation in alcohol. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 31 



tube upon a piece of glass. 0"49T of honey gave 0.306 of water, 

 and 0.684 of carbonic acid, corresponding to a percentage of 

 C = 87-535, H = 6.841, O by loss =55-634. This corresponds, 

 as nearly as could be expected under the circumstances of the 

 analysis, with the formula of crystallized grape sugar, C^ Hj^ Ou- 



Dr. Wetherill, who in this analysis was especially seeking light 

 upon the origin of the ant-honey, thus announces his conclusion : 

 " It results, I think, from these experiments, that the honej' con- 

 tained in the Mexican ant is a nearly pure solution of the sugar, 

 so called, of fruits, which is in a state of hydration, isomeric with 

 grape-sugar, C12 Hu Ou, and differing from grape-sugar in not 

 crystallizing." It is certainly an interesting confirmation of the 

 value of this reasoning from analj^sis, that the ants have been 

 proved by field observations to have collected their honey-dew as 

 Dr. Wetherill concluded, from the nectar of plants. Thus the 

 methods of cabinet and laboratorj^, and the objective studies of 

 the field, confirm and complete each other. 



With regard to the acidity of the ant-honey, which has been 

 referred to, Dr. Wetherill found that it reacted slightly acid to 

 blue litmus paper, but want of material prevented satisfactory 

 experiments. He was in doubt as to whether it was formic acid, 

 or acetic from the oxidation of the alcohol in which the ants 

 were preserved. A portion of the alcohol (reacting acid like the 

 honey) neutralized hj caustic potassa, when distilled with sulphuric 

 acid, gave an aqueous acid liquid, which, on addition of nitrate of 

 silver, gave a whitish precipitate, becoming black on boiling, ren- 

 dering the supposition of formic acid probable. 



The uses to which the Mexicans and Indians put this ant-honej' 

 are various. That they eat it freely, and regard it as a delicate 

 morsel is beyond doubt. Prof. Cope, when in New Mexico, had 

 the ants offered to him upon a dish as a dainty relish. The Mexi- 

 cans (Loew) press the insects, and use the gathered honey at 

 their meals. They also are said to prepare from it by fermenta- 

 tion an alcoholic liquor. Again, they are said (Eclwards) to apply 

 the honey to bruised and swollen limbs, ascribing to it great 

 healing properties. Dr. Loew's suggestion to bee-keepers to test 

 the commercial value of these ants as honey producers is wholly 

 impracticable. The difficulties of farming the colonies, gathering 

 the supplj', and the limited quantity of the product, would prevent 

 a profitable industiy. The greatest number of honey-bearers in a 




32 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



large colony, taking ni}' observations as a standard, will not exceed 

 six hundred, which, counting six grains of honej^ to the ant, would 

 be little more than one-half pound avoirdupois. Besides, the senti- 

 ment against the use of honey thus taken from living insects, 

 which is worthy of all respect, would not be overcome. The 

 Mexicans and Indians will therefore probably not be disturbed in 

 their monopoly of the honey-product of the nests of Melliger. 



YI. Interior Architecture. 



Gate Architecture. — In order to determine the gate archi- 

 tecture — a term by which I characterize the structure of the nest 

 nearest to the entrance — several formicaries were carefully opened 

 and studied. Four of these are here given as fair types of all. It 

 will be seen from these that a general similarit}- of plan prevails. 

 The gate itself is a single tubular opening in the centre of the 

 mound, from three-fourths to seven-eighths of an inch in diameter. 

 It is smooth within, and penetrates the mound and the earth perpen- 

 dicularly to a depth varying from three and one-half to six inches. 

 This gate is funnel-shaped at the top, and the funnel (PI. lY , fig, 14, 

 F) is gravel-lined, differing therein from the lower part or nozzle of 

 the gate (fig. 18, !N"). The nozgle descends perpendicularlj^, or with 

 a slight slope, for three inches, more or less, and then deflects at 

 an angle more or less abrupt, forming an arm (A) usually shorter 

 than the nozzle. This leads into a series of radiating galleries 

 and rooms, and the point of deflection may be called the vestibule, 

 Y. These galleries and rooms appear to extend quite habituallj^ 

 beneath and chiefl}'^ in 'one direction from the gate. There are 

 indeed galleries immediately surrounding the gate on every side ; 

 but these appear to be limited except in the one direction, within a 

 radius of about eight to ten inches, and to the same distance in 

 depth. 



These general statements may be illustrated and expanded by 

 the following details of particular nests. 



1. Nest No. 7, fig. 19, was a small nest three and one-third 

 inches in diameter. The gate had a perpendicular depth from the 

 surface of three inches. Thence at nearly a right angle it bent 

 south-east for two and one-half inches, forming the arm, A, and 

 meeting at Y a series of branching galleries, a, 6, e, d. Galler}^ a, 

 bore westward, terminating under the gate ; 6, bore southwest, 

 appearing to run upward toward the surface ; c, extended down- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 33 



ward and southward at a sharp inclination, entering a long roobo, 

 E, was a small circular chamber, at one end of which was a beau- 

 tiful gallery,/, running deep downward and inclining slightly west. 

 It was entered near by and above by another gallery, d, running 

 toward the surface. 



2. Nest jSTo. 6, fig. 18. The depth of the gate, G, was three 

 inches ; the length of the arm, A, two inches. The gallery into 

 which A opened toward b, divided at one end with two branches 

 separated at their mouths by a little column of two stones resting 

 one upon the other. The gallery, c, could be traced at least six 

 inches downward, and a gallery opened directly downward at a. 



3. Nest on Eaglehead Ridge, PI. V, fig. 20. This nest, from 

 Avhich many of my night studies were made, was finally opened, 

 and the section view, fig. 20, taken. The vestibule, as in the above 

 examples, also opened into a main gallery, &, which led to the 

 northeast, and joined a circular gallery which passed around the 

 vestibule and terminated in an oval room, A. At the other end it 

 entered a circle, which widened upon one side into a bay-room, 

 and sent off a couple of branches, one of which, c, was a chamber. 

 Two galleries, g g, opened downward. Beyond this, southward, 

 was a long waved gallery, D D, which ended at e e, and branched 

 at h. Galleries, g g, in this series, also led downward. 



No. 4. Fig. 23, Nest No. 4, on Adams Ridge. The diameter of 

 this mound was three and one-half inches at the top and seven 

 inches at the bottom. The vestibule sloped eastward from the 

 summit, downward three inches to the main gallery, which had 

 three branches, x, y and z ; x was followed six inches northeast 

 and upward ; y, extended sovithwest and downward ; 2, southeast 

 and downward. A gallery, 1, ran upward from z, and connected 

 with X. Another, 2, opened on the southwest into a room. A, 

 six inches long and three inches wide, at the west end of which 

 were galleries dividing north and south. A third gallery separated 

 from z at 3, and bent northward, apparently uniting with a room, 

 A, five inches long. This room was entered again by a widened 

 mouth. Be, about one-half inch above z. At the vestibule and 

 upper part of z were a number of cocoons. The room. A, was five 

 inches below the surface of the ground at G. 



Galleries and Honey-Rooms. — The last figure gives an idea 

 of the relation of some of the honey-rooms to the gate and the 

 upper series of galleries. These rooms lie at least as near to the 




34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



surface as six and eight inclies. Tliey vary in size, but for the 

 most part, are about five or six inches in length and three or 

 four in width. They are irregular in their outlines, but have a 

 general tendency toward the oval. One of tiie most irregular is 

 figured at PI. Y, fig. '21, HR, a large chamber which lay nearly 

 underneath the gate. The gallery, g g, into which the vestibule 

 opened, debouched into tliis room, and a portion of the gallery 

 roof unbroken is shown at ug. At B, appeared a bay-room, or 

 enlargement of a gallery, which penetrated the earth horizontally 

 at one end and at the other seemed to wind into the vestibule. 

 The height of the rooms at the w^alls or sides is from one-half to 

 three-fourths of an inch. The roof is vaulted, thus causing the 

 height to increase gradually until at the centre it is one and one- 

 half inches, which is the greatest distance that I measured. 



Floors and Roof. — The floors and walls are well nigli invari- 

 ably smooth, quite smooth some of them. The roof, on the con- 

 trary, is rough, presenting the natural condition after the sandy 

 pellets of earth and the little pebbles had been picked out by the 

 workers. This can hardly be otherwise than b}' purpose, precisely 

 as with the smoothness of the floors. The roughness of the roof 

 evidently greatly favors the use to which the honey-bearers put it 

 as a perch. So the smoothness of the floor and walls much better 

 adapts them for the use of gangways. The amount of travel to 

 and fro must be enormous, it is true, in a large formicary ; but I 

 cannot think that the resulting friction will account for the smooth- 

 ness, independently of the purposed masonry of the ants. In the 

 galleries the entire surface, above and below, is smooth, a condi- 

 tion which might be anticipated on the ground of adaptation. 



Galleries and Rooms. — The galleries are tubular openings, 

 varying somewhat in size, from one-half to three-fourths of an 

 inch, and even more, in diameter. A vertical section, however, 

 uniformly shows a quite perfect circle. The underground formi- 

 cary ma}^ be described in general terms as a system of galleries 

 and rooms, arranged in several horizontal series, one above another, 

 approximating the order of " stories " in a house, and intercom- 

 municating at many points by vertical galleries. The chai'acter 

 of the interior architecture can, perhaps, be best shown further by 

 giving somewhat in detail my studies of one nest. 



The nest selected for exhaustive exploration w^as situated upon 

 the summit of Adams Ridge, just above the nook within which my 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 35 



camp was located. Three entire days, besides other portions of 

 time, were spent in this work by myself and assistant. The nest 

 interior sloped eastward, and toward the base of the hill, and 

 occupied a space (in round numbers) eight feet long, three feet 

 high and one and one-half feet wide, the whole tunneled through 

 the soft red sandstone rock of which the ridge consists. This 

 rock is much of it quite friable, crumbling readily under the pres- 

 sure of the hand, but packs tightly under the stroke of mallet and 

 chisel, thus making difficult mining for men if not for ants. Most 

 of our work was done with the chisel, and the galleries and rooms 

 had to be worked out with knives. ^ These thirty-six cubic feet of 

 rock were fairly honeycombed by the series of galleries and cham- 

 bers above referred to. 



The dimensions of the exterior nest are as follows (see PI. IV, 

 fig. 15): Height, north side, 2i inches; west side. If inches; 

 east side. If inches; south side, 1| inches; distance across the 

 top, a e = 10 inches; distance around the base, a ^■ e c = 29 

 inches ; distance around the crater, m o n r = S inches ; eastern 

 ridge of the crater, v n = 1|- inches ; western ridge of crater, 

 m s =: ^ inch ; distance across the gate at a; 2 = 1 inch, at s v = f 

 inch ; depth of the gate before bending, 4 inches. The mouth, as 

 appears from measurement, was ovate (PI. IV, fig. 14), but the 

 entrance beyond was a circular tube. 



The mound was removed and the soil carefully scraped away. 

 Close to the surface, at the distance of one-half to three-fourths 

 of an inch, openings were found of various sizes, from one-fourth 

 to one inch in diameter. These openings occurred at various dis- 

 tances from the gate, on all sides, four and one-half, five, five and 

 one-half, eight, eight and one-half inches and upwards to ten inches 

 on the northwest side, eighteen inches on the south side, and 

 eighty-two inches on the southeast, in which direction the formi- 

 cary extended. Toward the termination of the nest, however, 

 thej' did not appear so near to the surface. 



Section views were next had by cutting across the nest. On 

 the north side I found no galleries at a greater depth than eight 

 inches. On the south side, the first cutting was made east and 



^ While engaged upon this part of my work, I was pleasantly surprised 

 by a brief visit of Prof. A. ?, Packard. I am glad to be able thus to refer 

 to his valuable testimony in confirmation of some of the statements of this 

 paper. 




36 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



west, and thereafter the rock cleared away outwardly , until the 

 end of the nest, when the cutting was made inwardly from the 

 starting point toward the gate. The character of the architecture 

 is the same throughout the entire nest, so that the following views 

 will suffice to typify all the interior. The figures PI. YI, fig. 35, 

 and PL Y, figs. 16, 17, give views of vertical and horizontal sec- 

 tions made from the gate (southeast), the l)ottom of the section 

 being twenty-one inches below the surface and the distance of the 

 furthest point from the gate twenty-three and one-half inches. 

 Fig. .3.5, PL YI, is a front view of galleries looking south, and 

 exhibits a surface about seventeen inches in length by seven in 

 height.^ The main series of galleries within this area are accu- 

 rately shown, but the connecting vertical galleries were broken 

 away in the excavation, and are not figured. 



Fig. 16 is a vertical section showing the southwest and south- 

 east sides of the excavation at the same point as the preceding 

 figure, part of which is included in this view.^ There are here 

 shown the general tendency of the galleries (^, ^, g) toward stories, 

 arranged one above another ; the relative position of the honey- 

 rooms (R, R), and the relation of the series to the large honey- 

 rooms, C, D, E, shown fully at fig. 17. 



The broken lines, c I d, and e h k, show a series of rooms, 

 some of which were occupied by larvae and some by honej-bearers. 

 The large rooms, C D E, Fig. 17, belong to the lowest series, and 

 are figured and described as fairly typical of all the honey-rooms 

 and other chambers. They were carefully uncovered by chisel 

 and knife, and after being sketched, a plaster cast was taken of 

 them, which is preserved in my collection.'' These rooms were of 



' Detailed measurements. — a to G =- oj^ inches ; G to d = 11 inches ; 

 e to / =- 10 inches ; hto i = 11 inches ; k to 1 = 11 inches ; m to » := 3 

 inches ; b to e = 2% inches ; o to /=- Z)4 inches ; p to q = 1)4 inches ; 

 g to A; = 2X inches ; t to Z — 2% inches ; o to r = 3X inches : Ito » = &% 

 inches. 



^ Fig. 16 measurements.— « to J = 4>^ inches ; c to d = 10 inches ; e to/ 

 _ 4 inches ; h to i = 4X inches ; i to k — A% inches/ c to j = 10 inches. 

 The gallery, j, appeared to connect upward with the lowest series of 

 rooms, efhk. 



' I succeeded by vast painstaking and labor in securing a number of fine 

 specimens of the architecture, which were carefully packed in Vjoxes and 

 committed to the Express Company at Colorado Springs. The company 

 received a heavy bill for transfjortation, and delivered my beautiful and 




1881.] NATrSAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA- 37 



an irregular oval shape ; in length five, three and one-half, and 

 six inches successively (C, D. E), and were of an average width 

 of about four inches, Thev were not boilt upon a level, the 

 origin of C, at h, being three and one-half inches above the 

 middle point of D, and six inches above the termination of E. 

 A side gallery, g g, skirted two of the rooms, and appeared to 

 open upon a fourth chamber at F, which, however, was too 

 much broken in the digging to be identified. Of course, only 

 the floor and part of the side walls of the rooms are shown, 

 but the roofs were vaulted and rough, as already described, 

 and rose to the height of three-fourths to one and one-fourth 

 inches. Within them, clinging to the roofs, were packed the 

 rotunds. The number in each room averaged about thirty ; and 

 as there were at least ten chambers thus occupied, the number of 

 rotunds in the nest was certainly not less than three hundred. Of 

 far the greater proportion of these the abdomens were distended 

 to a perfect sphere. 



The Queen Room. — I had the good fortune to capture the 

 fertile queen of this colony. She was found quite near the 

 extreme end of the formicary, in a nearly circular room four 

 inches in diameter. The series of galleries and honey-rooms 

 which composed the formicary terminated in a single gallery 

 (fig. 22, g g g). about eighteen inches long, three-fourths inch 

 wide and one-fourth inch deep. The gallery sloped sharply with 

 the slope of the hill-side on which the nest was made. Xear the 

 middle part thereof was the queen-room (C), being seventy-two 

 inches from the central gate and twenty-eight and one-half inches 

 below the surface of the hiU. Besides the queen the room con- 

 tained a large number of naked grubs, callows, honey-bearers and 

 workers. It is not improbable that the queen habitually dwelt in 

 or near this room; but it may be that during the successive 

 attacks upon the nest, the workers bore their queen still further 

 and further from the point of danger until the limit was reached. 



Ten inches below the queen-room, the gallery, g g g, was con- 

 tinued until it finally terminated in a small circular chamber (E) 

 or bay on the one side, and on the opposite side a narrow gallery- 

 {t g). which curved upward. This was the end of the formicary. 



costly specimens at the Academy broken in pieces ! It was an act of gross 

 carelessness, which merits this notice, as some specimens brooght home in 

 my trunk survived even the "baggage smashers." 




38 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



It was eighty-two inches from the central gate, forty and one-half 

 inches below the level of the main nest gate, and twenty-nine and 

 one-half inches below the level of the hill-side. The entire length 

 of the formicary from northwest to southeast was thus seven feet 

 eight inches.^ 



VII. QuEEisr Life. 



The captured queen of the large excavated nest was transported 

 to Philadelphia, placed in one of my artificial nests, a large glass 

 globe, and afforded several interesting observations npon her 

 habits. 



Her Body-Guard. — After the usual custom of ants, she was 

 continually surrounded by a guard of workers (PI. VI, fig. 29) 

 var^'iug in number, but usually as many as twelve or twenty. 

 These attendants quite enclosed her, and restricted her move- 

 ments, apparently watching and guarding her with great careful- 

 ness. On one occasion when she escaped to the upper surface of 

 the nest, she was followed and seized by a worker-m:ijor, who 

 interlocked her mandibles with the queen's (PI. VI, fig. 26) and 

 dragged her down the gateway into the interior. The royal lad}"^ 

 gave only a passive resistance, holding back somewhat heavily. 



Depositing Eggs. — I quote from my notes the description of 

 this process, the various stages of which I was also able to sketch. 

 " The queen has been laying a small heap of eggs. She is now on 

 a little elevation of earth, surrounded by a number of workers of 

 all castes, some of whom lick her abdomen, especially beneath and 

 at the apex. One, meanwhile, gives her food in the usual wa}-, by 

 regurgitation. I see the tongues of the two insects overlap in the 



1 While preparing clay models of some of the above examples of ant 

 architecture for my cabinet of Insect Architecture in the Academy of 

 Natural Sciences, it was suggested that moulds be made, from which 

 plaster casts could be taken, for the benefit of such other scientific collec- 

 tions and public museums as they might be wished for. This I had done, 

 and the moulds are now in the hands of the Curator in charge of the 

 Academy, by whom they will be furnished, ujion proper order, at the cost 

 of reproduction and packing, as nearly as may be. Five sjjecimeus are 

 cast^viz., those figured at PL II, fig. 4, and PL V, figs. IG, 17, 22 and 23. 

 They are cast natural size, except fig. 16, which is half size. The cost, 

 painted natural coloi', will be SIO fm- the set, unpainted $6. Orders should 

 be sent to Charles F. Parker, Curator in charge Academy of Natural 

 Sciences, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S. A. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 39 



act. The queen's abdomen is raised high, her head is stooped, 

 she lifts the abdomen up and down. The workers have clustered 

 under her body, giving her somewhat the appearance of a success- 

 ful candidate undergoing ' a chairing.' She has changed her 

 position ; tlie workers follow, quite surrounding her. Two are 

 beneath the abdomen, which is depressed now, the head being 

 elevated. The attendants sit down patiently to watch. The}^ 

 keep their antennie moving continually, while they amuse them- 

 selves by cleansing their persons. The queen moves ; a dwarf 

 seizes a fore-foot and attempts to control her course. This and 

 "nipping " with the mandibles, is the common mode by which the 

 guard directs the queen's motions. The eggs laid are in an 

 irregular mass about one-eighth of an inch thick. There are 

 twenty to thirty minute yellowish, ovoid objects, which adhere-to 

 each, other. The workers surround the mass, some appeared to 

 lick it. The queen straggles over the eggs, places a foot upon 

 the mass. A dwarf seizes the foot hastily and draws it back, 

 while another worker catches up the egg-mass and draws it aside." 

 The observation was made at 11.20 P.M.; at 1 A. M., when I 

 retired, no change had occurred. This is as much of this interest- 

 ing behavior as I was able to observe in this female. I have, 

 however, seen the actual deposition of the eggs bj' a queen of 

 Camponotus pennsylvanicus. ^ 



VIII. Acts of Beneficence. 



In the natural sites the workers showed great interest in the 

 preservation and removal of the rotunds, dealing with them very 

 much as with the larvae. As the honey-rooms were opened and 

 the rotunds disturbed from their roosts, the workers of all castes 

 rushed eagerl^^ to them, and dragged them into the unbroken 

 interiors. Sometimes several ants would join in removing one 

 rotund, pushing and pulling her along. One sketch (PI. YI, fig. 

 27) made in my notes, represents a major pulling a rotund, whom 

 she has seized with her mandibles by the outer abdominal wall, 

 wliile a dwarf-worker is mounted upon the globe, standing upon 

 her hind legs " a-tip-toe," as it were, pushing lustily. Another 

 sketch (PL YI, fig. 36), caught on the spot, represents a worker- 

 major dragging a rotund honey-bearer up the perpendicular face 



1 See a note in "Proceed. Acad. Nat. Sci. of Pliila.," 1879, p. 140. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP " [1881. 



of a cutting made in the excavation of the nest. The mandibles 

 of the two insects were interlocked, and the worker backed up the 

 steep, successfully drawing her protege. 



This interest is maintained in the daily life of the formicar3^ 

 The workers were continually seen hovering about the rotunds as 

 they hung from the roof of my nests, or as they lay upon the floor 

 cleansing their bodies. It is evident that these creatures are 

 regarded as dependents, and, as with the queen, virgin females, 

 males and larvte, are fed and tended by the active members of the 

 community. In all these cases the same communal instinct 

 "would of course control action, giving at least the semblance of 

 beneficence. 



Lack of Individual Beneficence, — But a great number of ex- 

 amples fell under notice which go to throw doubt upon the pos- 

 session of any personal or individual sentiment as towards special 

 cases of need, outside of the above limit. Some of these may 

 deserve permanent record. 



1. In making up my artificial nests, I placed in the natural soil, 

 which was closely packed down, and then introduced the ants, 

 knowing that they would work out their own habitations. The 

 hone3'-bearers were thus mingled upon the surface with the 

 workers, upon whom fell the entire task of digging galleries. In 

 this work, and in the distribution of the excavated pellets, there 

 was much room for the exhibition of individual carefulness and 

 tenderness toward the honey-bearers. Not a single such instance 

 was noted, although I watched closely and with some anxiety to 

 discover such excellencies in my little friends. On the contrary, 

 the exhibitions of an apparent cruel neglect and positive cruelty 

 were many. The grains of sand and soil were heaped around the 

 rotunds (PI. YI, fig. 31) until the poor creatures were literally 

 buried alive. It would have been easy for the busy masons to 

 draw their fellows aside and thus carry on their work. But it 

 either never occurred to them to do so, or the disposition was 

 wanting. 



2. Again, as the openings were made into the earth, most of the 

 rotunds, not prevented as above, managed to roll down the 

 galleries and secure a place in the honey-rooms. They were not 

 observed to be aided in this by the workers, and I believe that 

 they attained their perches unaided. Some of them, on the route, 

 became fastened in the gang-way in most uncomfortable positions. 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 41 



heads downwards, bodies awiy, etc. The workers passed by and 

 over them continually, for many days, witliout the slightest 

 apparent concern, and certainly without a single observed effort 

 to relieve their comrades, who could readily have been extricated 

 and drawn into the chambers. 



3 . 1 1 frequently happened that the rotunds dropped or were shaken 

 down from their perch against tlie roof to the floor. These creatures 

 remained in the positions in wliich they fell, except when they 

 chanced to so fall as to be able to clasp with their claws some 

 clod of earth, or bit of gravel, or the rough surface of the project- 

 ing walls or roof. In such case, they either recovered their perch, 

 or placed themselves in comparatively comfortable postures. The 

 gi-eater number, however, fell upon the round abdomen in such 

 wise tliat tlie body stood up quite erect (PI. YI, fig. 32), leaving 

 the legs thrust out unsuppoi'ted. These unfortunates were faitli- 

 fully attended, often cleansed and caressed, but in no single 

 instance did the workers attempt to right them and restore them 

 to the roof. Yet they were abundantly able to do so, with little 

 effort, and the fallen rotunds were in sore need of help. Some of 

 these lived for two months and longer in this awkward position, 

 but it was ver}"^ CAndent that they were extremely uncomfortable. 

 When it was practicable to extend m^' help to those near the 

 surface it was eagerlj'^ accepted, the offered stick or quill clasped 

 by the mandibles, sometimes assisted b}^ the feet, so firmh- as to 

 enable me to transfer the heav}' creatures to any point, even to 

 lift them out of the nest. Here again the idea or at least the act 

 of helpfulness was lacking. If we are to suppose the power of 

 communicating their distress and desires to have been possessed 

 by the bearers, we must think the workers even yet more lacking 

 in feeling and intelligence. 



4. One honej'-bearer was partly buried under her perch, that 

 portion of the roof having fallen. Her abdomen was quite covered 

 by the fine sand}' particles at the margin of the little landslide. 

 The task of rescuing her would have been easy to the workers, 

 but it was never undertaken, A sketch (PI. YI, fig. 28) was 

 made, shortly after the occurrence, which shows one worker- 

 minor standing before the rotund with head and bod}' erect, 

 antennae atent, with ever}- mark of curious interest in her deport- 

 ment. She watched the struggles and mute appeals (as it seemed 

 to me) of her unhappy comrade, who by great exertion had suc- 

 4 




42 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



ceeded in heaving up the clod, and then " passed by on the other 

 side.'' Meanwhile a second worker Avas perched atop of the clod, 

 coolly and cosily comhing her back-hair and antennae ! This 

 tableau is simply characteristic of the ordinary behavior of the 

 workers. 



An a[)parent exception was noted in the case of a semi-rotund 

 who was overtaken in a gangway by water with which I was sup- 

 plying the community, and stuck fast in a bed of mud. For a 

 long time the ivorkers, who were incited to masonry, as usual, by 

 the water suppl}^, dug and traveled around and over the imbedded 

 ant without notice of any sort. Finally one stopped and licked 

 the antennae and head of the prisoner, who began to struggle, and 

 so dropped down a little into the gangway. Meanwhile the first- 

 comer had left. A second ant stopped, applied the tongue a 

 moment, gave a little tug at the unfortunate, and w^as off. Still 

 the stream of workers passed on. Finally, an additional pull from 

 below was given by a concealed worker, but when I closed the 

 observation the ant was still imbedded in the mud within the 

 gangway. It was impossible to decide in this case whether the 

 helpers noted were moved b}' personal kindness, or rather (as is 

 most likely), by the same impulse which directs them in ordinary 

 mason operations and toward supposed dead comrades. 



Sir John Lubbock, who has made interesting experiments and 

 observations with a view to testing the presence of benevolent 

 feeling in ants,^ does not have a very high opinion of emmet 

 charity, but concludes that there are " individual differences," and 

 that among ants, as with men, there are Priests and Levites, as 

 w^ell as Good Samaritans. I am much inclined to the view that 

 anything like individual benevolence, as distinguished from tribal 

 or communal benevolence, does not exist. The apparent special 

 cases of beneficence, outside the instinctive actions which lie within 

 the line of formicary routine, are so rare and so doubtful as to 

 their cause, that (however loth), I must decide against anything 

 like a personal benevolent character on the part of my honey-ants. 



Such an example, indeed, as one of those cited by Lubbock,^ 

 viz., the neglect on the part of co-formicarians to remove the 

 decapitated heads of enemies from the limbs to which they are 

 firmlj' clasped, does not seem to me as remarkable as it does to 



1 Journal of the Linnsean Society, Zoology, Vol. XII, p. 497. 



2 Op. cit. p. 492. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 43 



Sir John. I have often observed the same fact among various 

 species, and, knowing by experience, the difficulty of imloosing 

 those formidable jaws, clasped by their immense muscles in the 

 rigor of death, would charge it to inability rather than indisposi- 

 tion, that these adhering death's-heads are not removed bj^ kindly 

 offices of comrades. But such examples as are here recorded, 

 together with kindred ones given by Lubbock, may fairly be 

 quoted against the existence of a personal benevolent character in 

 ants. However, the question can by no means be regarded as 

 settled. 



Cleansing and Feeding Larv^. — One or two miscellaneous 

 observations may, perhaps, be allowed a place in this connection. 

 The solicitude of the workers for the helpless larvje was a matter 

 for continual admiration. The offices of nurse do not seem to be 

 confined to any one caste, but the burden of dut}^ appeared to be 

 assumed bj' the dwarfs, and next to them the minors. 



When the grub is to be cleansed it is taken in the mouth, turned 

 by the fore pair of legs, the antennae meanwhile touching and 

 apparently aiding, while the mandibles are applied over the grub 

 their teeth apparentl}" working chieflj" within the annular divisions 

 of the several joints. Doubtless this motion is accompanied by a 

 free use of the tongue, but this I did not observe. 



When the grubs are to be fed^ the workers pass from one to 

 another, striding over them, and standing among them (PL YI 

 fig. 34) as the}^ lie in little groups. The wee white things perk up 

 their brownish yellow heads, which thej' stretch out and move 

 around, evidently soliciting food. Their nurses move from one to 

 another, apply the mouth for a moment, and pass on. 



At the slightest alarm the grubs are seized and hurried into the 

 recesses of the nest. Their position is frequently changed, from 

 higher to lower, from outer to inner rooms, and the reverse, with- 

 out any purpose which I could discover or imagine. When this 

 sort of transfer was not going on, the nurses would often be 

 engaged in shifting the position of their charges, flitting restlessly 

 among them, picking them up, turning them around, putting them 

 down again, with an aimless uneasiness that bore an amusing like- 

 ness to the dandling which human infants undergo at the hands 

 of certain j^oung mothers. 



Toilet Habits. — It has been said that the hone}- -bearers are 

 cleansed by the workers. This is the rule ; bxit the rotunds are 




44 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



not wlioll}^ dependent for this n]ion their fellows. In one of m^' 

 formicaries, the rotunds when placed within the light, began to 

 cleanse themselves, without leaving their perch. They held en 

 to the roof by the two hind legs and one of the middle pair, and 

 used the other middle and the two fore legs in the usual manner 

 of ants.i They "were quite able thus to draw a leg through the 

 spui'-comb of one of the fore-feet ; to brush the head, etc. 



In one case I even saw a honey-bearer performing the offices of 

 the toilet upon a worker. The latter held her mandibles apart, 

 while the rotund licked the mouth parts ; and from thence pro- 

 ceeded to the vertex of the head. Both insects were in a semi- 

 rampant posture the meanwhile. 



Fraternal Relations with Sister Colonies. — A few experi- 

 ments upon several nests quite widely separated, showed that as 

 in the case of some other ants,^ the inmates (of the same species) 

 fraternized completely, and engaged within the artificial nests, in 

 the care of the larvae, cocoons, honey-bearers, and in all other 

 formicary duties. 



IX. Economy of the Honey-Bearers. 



What is the economy of the remarkable structure and habit 

 presented in the honey-bearer ? The naturalist is shut out from 

 all observations in natural site that might give answer to this 

 question. But from studies thus far made upon my artificial 

 formicaries, from structure, and from reasonable analogy, I ha^e 

 little hesitation in saying that the economy is precisel}^ that of 

 the bee in storing honey within the comb. The difference lies in 

 the fact that the bee puts her store within inorganic, the ant 

 within organic matter ; the bee within the waxen cell which her 

 industry constructs, the ant within the living tissue of her sister 

 formicarian, provided to her hands by the Creator. The honey 

 is held in reserve within its globular store-room of animal tissue 

 for times when the workers fail to gather food, or the supply fails 

 in Nature. The queen, the virgin females, the males, the teem- 

 ing nursery of white grubs, are all and always altogether 

 dependent upon others for nurture. During the winter months 

 and in seasons when the honey supply is scant or wholly fails, 



1 See Toilet Habits of Ants, in Agricultural Ants of Texas, Ch. VIII, 

 p. 135. 



2 Mound-Making Ants of the Alleghenies, p. 281. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHTLADELPinA. 45 



perhaps during the long rain}^ seasons, the entire famih* must 

 have food. Precisely as the bee goes to the honey-comb in such 

 emergencies, the hone3-ant goes to the hone^^-bearer. 



There is, to be sure, a corresponding difference in the mode of 

 eliciting the stored sweets. The bee brealcs the cell and laps 

 the honey. The hungry ant places her mouth to that of the 

 bearer, from whose mouth it is received as it is regurgitated from 

 the hone}' crop. The muscles of the abdomen act upon that 

 organ as does the pressure of a lady's hand upon the eau-de- 

 cologne within the elastic bulb of a toilet jet or spraying bottle. 

 It is forced up, gathers in a little globule, a honey-dewdrop, upon 

 the filament-like maxillse under the jaw, whence it is lapped off 

 by the waiting pensioners. The admirable adaptation by which 

 the ant's structure is fitted for this function, will be noted further 

 on. It may be well to state such facts as appeared in various 

 efforts to arrive at the truth of the above opinion, viz., that the 

 honej'-bearers serve as store-houses of food for the inmates of the 

 nest. If these facts fall short of a complete deraonsti-ation, they 

 at least form a chain of evidence which creates a verv strono- 

 probability. 



1. Regurgitation of Honey. — On the occasion of the dis- 

 covery that the ants collected nectar from the oak-galls, a branch 

 upon wliich the foragers were at work was removed to my tent 

 for stud}'. First, however, it was taken to the home site, and a 

 dwarf worker coaxed upon a leaf and laid on the nest. She 

 seemed much confused, and evidently did not at first recoo-nize 

 the fact that she was at home. The workers around the gall, who 

 .were quite easily distinguished b}' the smaller size of their 

 abdomens, also showed marks of surprise -at this im expected 

 arrival. However, two dwarfs and a minor soon sufficiently 

 recovered their equanimity to arrest their fellow and " take toll " 

 from her mouth of the syrup with which her crop was well 

 charged. (PI. Y, fig. 24.) The mode was that which is common 

 among ants, and has been fulty described.^ A worker major was 

 next transferred from the bush to the nest, and showed the same 

 confusion at this unexpected " railroading " home. She also was 

 tolled b}^ the ants clustering upon the mound. In both cases I 

 saw the drop of liquid honey sparlding as it passed, a lantern 

 having been placed on each side, thus throwing light full}- upon 



^ See Mound-Making Ants, p. 275. 




40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the o:roup. The major, after her first confuseTl hesitation, seeiued 

 inclined to start again on the trail, but after being tolled entered 

 the gate. It thus appeared at the outset, that the honey collected 

 by the foraging parties is served out to the sentinels, working 

 parties and others at the nest, precisely as has been fully shown 

 in the case of the mound-making ants of the Alleghenies. ^ 



2. The act of receiving supplies from the hone^'-bearer was 

 observed by me soon after the transfer of the ants to an artificial 

 nest. The rotund threw her head up, raised her thorax, and 

 regurgitated a large drop of amber liquid, which hung upon the 

 mouth and palps. At first two ants were feeding — a major, who 

 was in a position similar to that of the rotund, and a dwarf who 

 stood upon her hind legs and reached up from below. During 

 the feeding another major was attracted to the banquet, and 

 obtained her share by reaching over the back of the first worker, 

 indeed, partly standing upon her, and thrusting her mouth into 

 the common " dish." (PI. Y, fig. 24.) The mandibles and maxillge 

 of the pensioners serve as a sort of dish, upon which a particle of 

 honey is taken and afterward is licked oft" more at leisure. 



3. Workers fond of the stored Honey — The fondness of 

 the workers for the store within the rotunds was strikingly shown 

 during the excavation of a nest. Necessaril}", in breaking down 

 the rooms, the distended abdomens of some of the honey -bearers 

 were ruptured. The high state of excitement which pervaded the 

 colony, the ordinary instinct to defend the nest and preserve the 

 larvae, cocoons and other dependents, were at once suspended in 

 the presence of this delicious temptation, and amid the ruins of 

 their home the workers paused, clustered in large groups around 

 the unfortunate comrade, and greedily lapped the sweets from the 

 honey-moistened spot. It was a pitiful sight to see, and was 

 noted with a mild sort of indignation, and to the disparagement 

 of the ants, until I remembered that history has often recorded,' 

 and, indeed, I myself have seen, the humiliating fact that human 

 beings have exhibited a like greed and ignoble self-gratification 

 amid the perils and threatened wreck of their country and homes. 



Treatment of Dead Rotunds. — Over against this fact may be 

 placed one seemingly more to the credit of our Melligera. From 

 time to time the honej^-beai'ers died. The bodies of those who 

 perished upon their perch would hang to the roof for daj^s before 



1 Op. cit., p. 377. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4^ 



the death-grip finally relaxed and they fell. It happened more 

 than once that the workers failed to perceive the change, and for 

 some time, a day or more, after death, continued to cleanse and 

 tend them with the accustomed solicitude. When the fact was at 

 last perceived, and the dead removed, the round abdomen was 

 first severed from the thorax by clipping the petiole, then the 

 parts were separately removed to the " cemetery," that common 

 dumping-ground for the dead, which these ants, like all others 

 whom I have observed, invariably maintained. In view of the 

 fact last recorded, it seemed curious that the stored treasures of 

 these " honey-pots " were not secured by cutting the sealing tissue. 

 In point of fact, this was never seen to be done, and the amber 

 globes were pulled up galleries, rolled along rooms, and bowled 

 into the graveyard along with the juiceless legs, heads and other 

 members. I verily believe that they were never once deliberately 

 opened, in spite of their tempting contents. If this act were the 

 result of an instinctive sentiment by which Nature guarantees 

 protection to the living honey-bearer (and this, indeed, is likely), 

 it must soem to us very beautiful and praiseworthy-. But what if 

 it were only the consequence of a mentalism so low and fixed 

 within its instinctive ruts as to hinder even a suggestion of 

 utilizing the wasting store by opening the abdomen ? 



4. Effects of Withholding Food — In order to determine 

 be3'-ond doubt the relations of the honey -bearers to the other ants, 

 I made a number of experiments, which, I regret to say, led to no 

 decided conclusion. ^ One or two of them, however, gave results 

 of some value. A number of rotunds and workers were placed 

 in a nest,' and denied all food. A little water was allowed them, 

 but for more than four months their fast was not otherwise broken. 



^ Au unusual press of professional and domestic duties during the winter 

 of '79-80 absorbed even my eveniugs and those leisure hours which I feel 

 at liberty to devote to natural history. I was thus unable to give to my 

 little friends that attention which might have assured a complete success. 

 On one occasion, just as a long series of preparations promised satisfactory 

 results, a family bereavement intervened, and when it was possible to 

 resume observations, the hour of advantage had passed. Then followed 

 the untimely destruction of my captives, as will be related hereafter, and 

 the estopment of all study. Naturalists, at least, will know how to esti- 

 mate the various ordinary as well as extraordinary interruptions and hin- 

 drances with which the observer has to contend, and which often prevent 

 the most satisfactory results. 




48 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



It was 1113- hope that this prolonged separation from external food 

 supplies would compel the workers to resort to the hone^'-bearers 

 for food, and thus afford the positive proof that the latter were 

 the natural storehouses of the colonj'. Most provokin;^!}-. the 

 perverse Melligei'S made the room of the hone^'-bearers within the 

 very heart of the nest, and no strategy of mine could tempt more 

 than one or two of the rotunds into a position under m\' e3'es. I 

 was therefore limited to such inferences as might be drawn fi'om 

 the general condition of the inmates during and at the close of 

 the fast. 



During the entire four months, the workers, whose movements 

 were of course observable, were in perfect health and good condi- 

 tion. Indeed, it was very evident that they were in a more 

 healthy state, more vigorous and active than the inmates of the 

 other nests. When the nest was finally opened the remaining 

 workers had well-filled abdomens, all of them looking more like 

 foragers freshly returned from a banquet of nectar among the oak 

 galls, than like the victims of a four-months' seige. The abdo- 

 mens of the honey-bearers were undoubtedh' diminished, but 

 presented little appearance of having been largely drawn upon by 

 hungry workers. 



The complement of this experiment over a nest of workers who 

 were wholly separated from honey-bearers, and denied food, came 

 to an untimely end. The purpose had been to make such a com- 

 parison between the two sets of workers as would have shown 

 what effect the presence of houej^-beaArs had upon the abdomens. 



5. Covering obnoxious matter. — Two other formicaries were 

 established with the special purpose of determining whether the 

 workers habitually transferred food to the sedentary insects upon 

 the roof. One colony was fed syrup mixed with carmine, the 

 expectation being that if the ants ate this and fed it to the honey- 

 bearers, the color would show through their abdomens, or be 

 discovered by dissection. The experiment failed, as to its main 

 ^ lurpose, but was the occasion of uncovering an interesting trait. 

 Che carmiue-sj'rup was obnoxious to the ants. Some tasted it, 

 turned awa^'^, and rubbed their mouth parts upon the earth, with 

 evident tokens of dislike. Others tested it with their antennje, 

 and although they had been prepared for a banquet by previous 

 fasting, refused to eat. Moreover, they instantly, deliberateh', and 

 with one accord set to work to cover up the offensive material. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 49 



The syrup had been placed upon large corks, hollowed out atop 

 into little dishes, and set in the soil. One cork projected an inch 

 above the surface, and up this the workers climbed, carrj'iug 

 pellets of earth and gravel, from the A-ery bottom of the nest, four 

 inches below the surface. These pellets they dropped into the 

 syrup, until the dish was filled and heaped up high. Some of the 

 bits of gravel were quite large, of greater bulk, and several times 

 heavier than the ants. As the nests were made of their native 

 soil, I thus saw the ease with which the workers carr}- up the 

 gravel stones, that cover their mounds (PI. YI, fig, 30). 



A broad trail of s^-rup was forced down one side of the cork, 

 and it also was covered. This required more delicate manage- 

 ment, as the ants wei*e forced to support themselves upon the 

 perpendicular surface of the cork, and, working side-wise, daub 

 the dirt into the syrup, and fix it there ! The whole trail was thus 

 covered from top to bottom. The sjrup was fed to another for- 

 micary with precisely the same results. 



This was not the only occasion on which food given the ants 

 was thus served. A crushed grape, and a juicj' bit of a pear were 

 covered in the sajne way in four of the nests. The fruit did not 

 seem to be relished hy the ants, yet I am not sure that the juice 

 may not afterwards have been lapped from the soil which ab- 

 sorbed it. White sugar the ants took freely ; bees' honey was not 

 so much relished. 



In the meanwhile, during the progress of these observations, I 

 found that the semi-rotunds, at least were not wholly dependent 

 for food upon the workers, as they partook freely of the sugar. 

 But I never saw a honev-bearer, one of full rotundity, taking food 

 or drink. ^ One might imagine that they are quite independent 

 of outside supplies after the}- have once reached that state, and 

 could spend the remainder of their lives, unless greatly prolonged, 

 without eating. The question of chief interest here is : are thej' 

 brought to that state b}' the deliberate action of workers in feed- 

 ing them ■? I believe that after a certain point of distension this 

 is the case. But the belief does not yet rest upon positive 

 demonstration. We now proceed to the anatomy of the creature, 

 which may aflford some additional light upon this question. 



^ I substituted for carmine Pmssian blue, which Dr. Forel had used for 

 staining living ants (Fouvmis de la Suisse, p. 110), but had no better suc- 

 cess, although some of the ants fed upon the colored sweets. 




50 PRO0EEDINO8 OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



X. Anatomy op the Alimentary Canal in the Honey-Ant. 



These questions, closely related, required answer : 



I. Are the honej-bearers a distinct caste ? 



II. How is the peculiar dilated condition of the abdomen to be 

 accounted for ? 



III. What is the condition of the digestive organs in the ab- 

 domen of the hone3^-bearer ? 



There are some field observations that have a bearing upon 

 these questions : 



1. The workers observed returning from foraging excursions 

 had largely inflated abdomens. This is an ordinary experience 

 with ants ; the workers of Foi'mica exsectoides, our movintain 

 mound-builders, for example, returning from attendance upon the 

 Aphides with their props very much swollen. The workers of 

 Melliger, however, seem to have an especial elasticity of the crop, 

 which gave the abdomens of some of the returning repletes a 

 nearly semi-rotundity. 



2. These repletes and semi-rotunds in my artificial nests adopted 

 in a measure the sedentary habits of the honey -bearers, and perched 

 upon the roofs, where they hung quite persistently. They were 

 often very sluggish, but more ready to move than the rotunds, 

 and at times showed much activit}', though not greatl}'^ disposed 

 to work. (See PI. Ill, fig. 6.) 



3. In the formicaries opened in natural site, I observed, what 

 Llave had seen from his specimens, that there were several degrees 

 in the sizes of the honey-bearers in the honej^-rooms. 



4. There was an apparent growth in the abdomens of the seden- 

 tary' workers in the artificial nests. As early as September 7th, 

 18T9, 1 made this record in m}^ note-book: "It begins to dawn 

 upon me that the worker majors become honey-bearers. Many of 

 them hang in the nests to the honey-rooms. In 'B ' nest the en- 

 tire line along the upper margin of the large room is composed of 

 this rank." Honey -bearers with abdomens distended from one-half 

 to two-thirds the full size were continually noted, and I could onlj- 

 infer that they were recruited from the number of the sedentary 

 majors. In fact it became difficult to mark the individuals in 

 whom the sedentary major ceased and the honey-bearer began. 



5. A series of experiments was attempted to solve this point. 

 Semi-rotunds or sedentary majors were separated, freely fed, and 

 their growth noted. They never exceeded the condition of about 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 51 



two-thirds the usual spherical abdomen. What the result would 

 have been had the}'' lived the entire year, and how long it would 

 have taken them to attain the rotund condition can only be 

 guessed.^ 



6. Among the callows, or young ants, collected, I could find no 

 evidence at all of a separate honey-bearer caste. Among the 

 larvae there were some large, broad grubs, that differed much from 

 the others, which I supposed to be queen-grubs. I was not able 

 to hatch these and the cocoons, and observe results, a process 

 which would probably determine the whole inquiry. The cocoons 

 collected were all of three sizes, corresponding in length to the 

 workers, major, minor and dwarf or minim as this smallest caste 

 might perhaps be called. 



Y. A comparison of the workers* with the honey ^bearer shows 

 that there is absolutel}' no difference between them except in the 

 distended condition of the abdomen. The measurements as to 

 length and size of head, length of legs and thorax are precisely the 

 same. This appears to be true also, of some of the smaller rotunds 

 and the minors. 



My conclusion from the above facts is that the worker majors, 

 for the most part, and sometimes the minors, are transformed by 

 the gradual distention of the crop, and expansion of the abdomen, 

 into the honey-bearers, and that the latter do not compose a dis- 

 tinct caste. ^ It is probable, however, that some of the majors 

 have a special tendency to this change by reason of some peculiar 

 structure or form of the intestine and abdominal walls. 



8. Finally I undertook an anatomical comparison of the honey- 

 bearers and workers. I made a large number of dissections, which 

 were carefully studied and compared, and these observations 



^ Some observer upon the field might readily take up these and other ex- 

 periments and carry them to a satisfactory conclusion. There are invalids 

 at Colorado Springs and Manitou, who might follow the admirable example 

 of the late Mr. Moggridge at Mentone, and find both enjoyment and pro- 

 longed life in some such studies. 



' I am glad to be confirmed in this opinion by Dr. Aug. Forel, to whom 

 I early sent specimens and notes, and who has shown a gratifying interest 

 in these studies, and has cordially aided them by valuable suggestions. 

 See a communication to the Morphologico-Physiological Society of Munich, 

 in Aerztlichen Intelligenz-Blatte, Jan'y, 1880. 




52 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



strengthened, I niiobt almost say entirel_y confirmed my opinion.' 

 Some of the results thus obtained will have value to many stu- 

 dents, and they are therefore briefly presented here. Without 

 entering fully into anatomical and histological details, enough will 

 be given to confirm and explain the facts related and opinions 

 stated above. 



The Alimentary or Intestinal Canal. — The whole eoui'se of 

 the alimentary tract from the mouth to the anus was carefully 

 worked out in many dissections. Less attention was given to the 

 head ; the pharynx and mouth parts were, however, worked out. 

 Attention Avas, of course, chiefly directed to the abdomen and con- 

 tents. 



The intestinal canal is composed of the following parts : 



I. Within the head there are : 



§ 1. The mouth and the mouth-parts, viz. : the mandibles (Plate 

 VII, figs. 37, 38) w6.,- which are armed with teeth of irregular size ; 

 the maxillse, mx, and maxillary palps, mx. p ; the labium, Ib.^ and 

 lower lip, the labial palps, lb. p., and the tongue, to. 



§ 2. The buccal sac (fig. 51, 6c.s), a spherical expansion at the 

 anterior part of the pharynx, in the middle of the front part of 

 the head. Its function is not determined.^ It is frequently found 

 filled or partly filled with various, amorphous particles, the debris 

 of food, etc. Brants, who first discovered it in the wasps, supposes 

 that it may serve those insects in the preparation of their paper- 

 nests. Forel conjectures that it may serve the purpose of a special 

 digestion for the anterior part of the body. Lubbock once found 

 in it an entire worm. It would appear to be a sort of anatomical 

 " Botany bay" for the temporary seclusion of such food material 

 as may not be prepared to yield the juices which alone pass into 

 the crop. 



' I mounted many of my preparations for more leisui'ely study under the 

 microscope, and they have been submitted to the Academy of Natural 

 Sciences of Philadelphia. I acknowledge here the assistance and advice 

 of Prof. J. Gibbons Hunt, M. D,, in these studies, whose unrivaled skill 

 as a microscopist was cordially placed at my disposal. 



^ The reference-symbols are uniform in all the figures, and are for the 

 most part such abbreviations of the names of the parts as may aid the 

 memory in studying the plates. See the key to reference symbols. 

 • 2 See Forel Swiss Ants, p. 109 ; Lubbock, Microscop. Jour., London, 

 1877, p. 139 ; Agricultural Ants of Texas, p. 119. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 53 



§ .3. The phan-nx (fig. 51, px.) a strongly miisculav vrall situ- 

 ated within tlie head in front of the neck, nk. 



II. Within the body there is the oesophagus (ce. fig 52), a mus- 

 cular tube^ or canal which passes through the neck and petiole, 

 and connects the head with the abdomen. 



III. The parts within the abdomen, which most concern us are 

 § 1. Segmental Plates of Abdomen. — It is first necessary to 



understand the structure of the wall of the abdomen. This consists 

 of ten strongly chitinous segmental plates, five dorsal and five 

 ventral (PI. Til, figs. 53, 54). These overlap one another, like scales, 

 from the base toward the apex, and the dorsal plates overlap the 

 ventral. The last plates which guard the cloacal cavit}', are 

 known as the pA'gidium (py,) and the h3'pop3'gium (hy.) The 

 anus, in Melliger is surrounded by a circle of strong bristle-like 

 hairs. 



These plates, in the normal condition of the abdomen, are set 

 upon (if I may so say) a strongl}- muscular inner wall, which is 

 highlj^ elastic in all ants, particularly of the Formicida?. This 

 elasticity' appears to reach its extreme point in Melliger. In 

 ordinary excessive feeding, the distension of the crop causes the 

 expansion of the muscular coat between the plates which are thus 

 forced apart, at various degrees of separation, according to the 

 amount of food taken, until in the case of the honey-bearer of 

 Melliger the three middle plates (Nos. 2, 3, 4) are wholl}^ isolated, 

 appearing, as Forel has well said, like little islands on the tersel}- 

 stretched, light colored abdominal membrane. (Plate YII, fio-. 

 54, D2, 3, V2, 3), (Plate X, figs. 72, 73). Plates Dl, Yl, retain 

 their normal position, and plates D4, Y4, are not so wideh' sepa- 

 rated from D5, Y5, as from their next anterior plates. 



We may now view the abdominal portion of the intestinal tract, 

 in order to understand what happens in the growth of the honev- 

 bearer. 



§ 2. The Crop or Ingluvies. — The crop is the anterior and 

 superior sub^division of the abdominal portion of the alimentar}- 

 canal. It is simply an expansion of the (jesophagus within the ab- 

 domen. The normal condition of the crop was determined bv 

 examination of the workers with undistended abdomens, and more 

 readil}' from the stud}' of a virgin queen (PL YIII, fig. 59;, 



'Forel, quoting Meinert, speaks of the muscularization as feeble • but in 

 Melliger, at least, the muscles appear to be sufficiently strono-. 




54 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



The ocspliagiis ce, is there seen passing through and bent over 

 the hard ring (J71) which forms the junction of the petiole and 

 abdomen. The oesophagus is seen as continued (ce c) within the 

 abdomen, where it has precisely the same structure as within the 

 thorax. The crop or ingluvies contains a moderate amount of 

 food and is fairl}^ distended. The exterior coat of the crop is a 

 net-work of muscles which present the branched character some- 

 times found in insects (PI. VII, fig. 45). Another section of the crop 

 showing tlie character of this muscularization is given at 

 Fig. 46. This enlarged view is taken from the object shown at 

 PI. YIII, fig. 55, and is made at the margin. The spherical crop 

 is thus seen to be hung within the muscular netting, something 

 like an inflated balloon within its net bag. 



Forel thinks^ that the muscles of the segmental walls of the 

 abdomen alone are concerned in the act of regurgitation; but I 

 see no ground for this opinion, except possibly with the honey- 

 bearers, whose abdominal muscles alone might suffice to expel the 

 contents of the crop. Such a remarkably efficient structure as is 

 here demonstrated and illustrated, can hardly be without its proper 

 function. 



Before proceeding to demonstrate the main point in hand, it 

 will be well to follow the alimentary canal to its termination. 



§ 3. The Gizzard or Pboventriculus. — The crop is continued 

 posteriorly by the gizzard, gz (PI. VIII, figs. 55, 56, 57, 59), a 

 singular and complicated organ in ants which has given rise to 

 conjectures the most diverse. Meinert regards it as serving to 

 regulate the movement of the aliments. Forel thinks it certain 

 that it serves above all to close, and for the most part hermeti- 

 cally, the digestive canal between the crop and the stomach.- The 

 gizzard properly belongs to the anterior part of the intestinal 

 canal its internal cuticle (tunica intima) being a direct continua- 

 tion of the crop, oesophagus, pharynx and mouth. It consists in 

 Myrmecocystus (and the entire sub-family Camponotidse) of three 

 parts. 



^ Swiss Ants, p. 111. 



^ The gizzard varies largely among ants, and the variations form generic 

 characters of great value, which Dr. Forel has shown, first in his ' ' Four- 

 mis de la Suisse," p. 112, seq., and afterward, more fully and clearly, in his 

 "Etudes Myrmecologiques," Bulletin de la Soc. Vaudois d. Sci. Nat., Vol. 

 XV, 1878,pp. 337, 392. This last study of this organ is one of the most 

 admirable contributions yet made to niyrmecological histology. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 55 



1. The anterior part, or gizzard proper, a lily-shaped organ 

 composed of a spherical bowl (b.gz) and four blades or sepals, s.gz. 

 It is strongly chitinous, appears intact in all dissections, and is 

 easily seen. The crop contracts at the posterior end within the 

 four sepals of the gizzard, which thus appear to act as valves to 

 regulate or moderate the flow of aliment from the crop to the 

 stomach. What, if any, action it may have upon the food is not 

 known ; it can hardh' have the usual function of trituration, as 

 ants do not receive solid food into the crop.^ 



2. The middle part of the gizzard, or cylinder, cy.gz, is a 

 straight cylinder, with a fine, transparent internal cuticle whose 

 matrix is surrounded by a compact coat of transverse striated 

 muscles. Exteriorly the cylinder appears to merge directly into 

 the stomach. Only the muscular coat, however, is thus directly 

 continued and expanded into the fine muscular bag-net of the 

 stomach (PI. VIII, fig. b1). 



3. The internal cuticle of the gizzard traverses the walls of the 

 stomach accompanied b}- its matrix, and projects within the cavity 

 of the stomach, terminating in an elongated bulb, which is the 

 button, bn.gz. (fig. 51), bn. (fig. 59 >, or posterior part of the gizzard. 

 The anterior and posterior parts of the gizzard are always found in 

 ants, the first varying greath^, the latter scarcely at all. The cyl- 

 inder, on the contrary, is wholly wanting in many genera, and in 

 others undergoes great variations of length. The entire organ is 

 united to the crop externally by a strong muscular netting, so that 

 the two might be compared to a balloon (crop) and the car (gizzard) 

 and the enfolding muscles to the network swinging between the 

 two. 



§ 4. The Stomach. — The stomach, stm (PI. YIII,figs. 55, 56), 

 like the gizzard is alwaj'S easily discernible, inasmuch as a quan- 

 tit}^ of solid amorphous matter within it, of a dark brown or 

 blackish color, betraj^s its presence even through the segmental 

 plates. It is commonly spherical or ovate in shape. 



§ 5. Malpighian Tubes. — Around the posterior pole of the 

 stomach are grouped the Malpighian vessels, mpg (figs. 56, 60), 

 twelve in number. 



1 The various sections of the bowl appeared to me to have upon their 

 interior edges certain tooth-like inequalities, which suggested at least the 

 office of triturating or agitating the passing food. These may be, however, 

 nothing more than longitudinal flutiugs upon the external surface. 




56 TROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



§ 6. The Intestine, — The location and appearance of the intes- 

 tine, is seen in fig. ST), more clearly in fig. .60. The ileum (il) 

 passes from the posterioi- pole of the abdomen, and appears to be 

 united to the colon (col) by a fold which I have ventured to refer 

 to as the ileo-secal valve {il.v). The rectal glands (re.gl) 

 appear upon the colon, and the rectum (?'e), a strongly chitinous 

 and muscuhir structure, terminates in tlie ciHated anus (an). 



Finally, PI. YIII, fig. 58 ^ will show the relative positions of 

 all the organs opening into the cloaca. See Explanation of Plates, 

 fig. 58. 



We may now construct for further illustration the synthetic 

 figure, PI. IX, fig. 61, giving a side view of the entire intestinal 

 canal in situ. This will indicate the normal position of the crop 

 relative to the abdomen and the other alimentary" organs. It will 

 be seen that it occupies a position anterior and superior to these. 

 The natural tendency of the pressure caused b}^ the expansion of 

 the crop, as it fills the abdominal cavit}', would be to force the 

 remainder of the tract backward and downward. In point of fact 

 it is so fourfd. A number of workers, with abdomens in various 

 degrees of distension wei'e examined, and the condition and site 

 of the digestive organs noted. A few outlines of these abdomens 

 are given : 



The series begins with Fig. 63 (PI. IX), where the crop is shown 

 in nearly normal site, and well filled. 



The same condition is indicated at Fig. 66, except that the crop 

 shows marks of having once been quite distended and afterward 

 emptied. 



Fig. 64 shows a worker, whose crop about half fills the abdomen. 

 The gizzard, gfz, is forced downward (ventral J and has the anterior 

 poles of the sepals turned upward (dorsad;. The effect of sub- 

 sequent pressure (should the crop have expanded), in forcing the 

 stomach, etc., backward and downward into the cloacal cavity, 

 can readily be predicted from the figure. 



In Figs. 62 and 65, the abdomens of workers in the semi-rotund 

 state, the distension has advanced a little further so as to push 

 the stomacli in one case (62) as far ns, in the other (65) partly 

 beyond, the fourth segmental plates, compressing the intestine 

 proportionatel3\ 



1 Adapted from Forel, "Der Giftapparat und die Aurddriisen der Amei- 

 sen," Zeitschrlftf. wiss. Zool., Bd. XXX. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 5T 



That the same results follow in all the worker castes may be 

 seen in Fig. 6*7, the abfloraen of a minim or dwarf worker. 



Turning to tlie honej'-bearers, we find precisely the same con- 

 dition of the abdomen, except that the distention of the crop has 

 greatly increased, pushing its walls in all directions quite up 

 against the inner walls of the abdomen, forcing the latter into 

 rotundity, and compressing the other organs into the smaller 

 space. 



Fig. 69 is the abdomen of a honej^-bearer, which appeared to be 

 a little short of the full rotundity. The crop filled the entire 

 cavity, but the gizzard, stomach and intestine, instead of being- 

 crowded together upon each other, were in their normal relations, 

 and appeared to be in an entirely healthy state. The aspect of 

 man}^ of the bearers raised the query, whether the anus might not 

 be sealed by the organs forced against it, thus stopping all excre- 

 tion, and making the animal simply a vital honey-pot. The above 

 individual, at least, had every appearance of normal condition and 

 action of all the organs. 



In the next example (fig. 70), the gizzard, stomach, malpighi- 

 an vessels and intestine are forced down quite within the compass 

 of the fourth pairs of segmental plates, and directly over the cloacal 

 vent. For the most part these organs are situated ventral, but 

 here they are partly dorsal of this cleft. The most usual position 

 of the stomach in the honey-bearers is between and quite close to 

 the fifth and fourth ventral plates. The gizzard is a little anterior 

 of this, the sepals, which mark the posterior pole, or entrance of 

 the crop within the gizzard, being directed downward, upward, 

 downward and backward, upward and backward, or forward, at 

 hap-hazard. 



Another illustration is given (fig. 68), in which the crop of a 

 honey-bearer is seen in the act of contraction, after having been 

 punctured through a slit (s) in the abdomen. When one holds a 

 rotund up to the light, and looks into the semi-transparent abdo- 

 men, it is not possible to distinguish the crop from the abdominal 

 membrane. But in the example here figured, as the honey flowed 

 out from the pierced crop, the slowly contracting and thickenino- 

 folds of the partly emptied organ were thus revealed. Nothino- 

 could demonstrate more clearly than this experiment and figure 

 that it is the crojj alone which fills the distended abdomen. 



I venture to add a final illustratioji to tliis series. I was en- 




58 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



abled to separate a crop entire from the abdomen, and mount it 

 for microscopic examination. In this delicate woi'k, which could 

 not otherwise have been done, I was aided by some morbid con- 

 dition of the abdomen. I occasionally noticed, both in the natural 

 and artificial nests, honej^-bearers whose abdomens had the ap- 

 pearance of cones (PI. VI, fig. 3.3) and the outer membrane hung 

 in folds. ^ The}^ seemed to have suflTered some injury, which ap- 

 parently had affected the crop. It was from one of these that the 

 crop (PI. VIII, fig. 55) was taken. 



These studies point to the following conclusions : 



I. First ^ and absolutely, that it is the crop alone which contains 

 the nectar received at the mouth, which, immensely distended 

 thereby, fills the rounded abdomen of the honey-bearer. 



II. Second^ and absolutel}^, the organs of the abdominal portion 

 of the alimentary canal in the honey-brearers are ordinarilj^ in a 

 natural state, except in so far as their position has been changed 

 by the downward and backward pressure of the expanding crop. 

 This condition of the abdomen is fi-equent, in a greater or less 

 degree, among ants. 



There has been much error and loose statement on this point 

 among authors. So eminent an anatomist as Dr. Joseph Leidy 

 supposed that the honey was contained within the stomach ; that 

 all the other viscera of the stomach were obliterated, and that 

 even the tracheal A^essels had entirely disappeared.^ Dr. Oscar 

 Loew^ makes some correct notices of the honey -ant, as seen at Santa 

 Fe, New Mexico, but permits himself to recognize " the intestine . . 

 as a narrow canal winding through the rounded and puffed up ab- 

 domen." This could only, in any sense, be affirmed of a small 

 part of the abdomen, the posterior portion into which, as we have 

 seen, the intestine is crowded. It is possible that the dorsal ves- 



1 I do not credit the statement (Loew) that many of the rotunds burst 

 by force of the pressure upon the crop. Probably this never occurs in na- 

 ture. The spots of moistened clay seen by observers rather mark the 

 wreck of ants crushed by pressure upon the chambers and galleries during 

 excavation, or ruptured by falling from the roosts. 



2 Proceedings Academy Natural Science, Vol. VI, 1853, p. 72. This, 

 however, was twenty- nine years ago. 



^ Chemist and mineralogist to Lieut. "Wheeler's Exploring Expedition, 

 American Naturalist, Vol. VIII, 1874, p. 365-6. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 59 



sel may have been mistaken for the intestine, as this may be seen 

 in some specimens very plainly. 



Dr. James Blake ^ has published a brief report in which he 

 falls upon an error quite the reverse of Dr Loew.^ " The intes- 

 tine of the insect," he says, " is not continued beyond the thorax, so 

 that there is no way in which the remains of the food can be ex- 

 pelled from the body, except by the mouth." It follows, of course, 

 that with this view, he should further err in supposing the honey- 

 bag to be formed simply by the expansion of the abdominal seg- 

 ments. 



The illustrations above figured, on the contrary, show that the 

 intestinal canal has neither been ruptured, nor resorbed, nor other- 

 wise disposed of than is quite natural.^ 



III. Third, it is seen that the process by which the rotundity 

 of the honey-bearers has probably been produced, has its exact 

 counterpart in the ordinary distension of the crop in over-fed 

 ants ; that, at least, the condition of the alimentar}- canal, in all 

 the castes is the same, differing only in degree, and therefore, the 

 probability is very great that the honey-hearer is simply a worker 

 with an overgroivn abdomen. 



If this last conclusion has not been fully demonstrated, it has 

 at least been shown that there is no anatomical or physiological 

 obstacle thereto, but very much confirmatory thereof. 



The Australian Honey-Ant. — An exceedingly interesting 

 discovery of a new species of honey-ant, adds to the probability 

 of this last conclusion. Sir John Lubbock has described this 

 species as Gamponotus ijijlatus,* from specimens collected at 

 Adelaide, Australia. I received examples through the courtesy 

 of Mr. Gerald Waller, last summer, which enabled me even in 

 advance of Lubbock's admirable description, to note that a con- 



^ Proceedings California Academy Science, 1873, part II, page 98. 



2 Dr. Forel, in the communication to the Morphologic© physiological So- 

 ciety of Munich, already alluded to, appears to me to have misunderstood 

 Dr. Loew's published statement. Dr. L. erred in seeing too much intestine, 

 instead of none at all. 



^ It is not worth while to more than mention here the opinion which has 

 leen largely circulated, that the workers bite and wound the ends of the 

 ahdomens, producing thereby an inflammation which seals up the anus, 

 stops all excretion, and so causes the rei^letion of the abdomen. 



* Journal Linn. Soc. Zoology, 1880^ Vol.. XV, p. 185, seq. 




60 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



dition supposed to be peculiar to our American Melliger, obtained 

 in an Australian species belonging to a genus quite removed from 

 Myrmecocystus. Mr. Waller could tell me nothing of the habits 

 or luibitat of C. inflatus, and Lubbock has no account of an}'. 

 But tlie congeners of the Australian insect are " Carpenter ants," 

 quite generally making tlieir formicaries in the roots and trunks 

 of trees, and thus in economy as well as structure differ from M. 

 hortus-deorum. This widening of the range within which this 

 hitherto phenomenonal condition of the abdomen is found, not 

 only raises the suggestion which Sir John makes of an independent 

 origin of the modification in the two species, but also adds to 

 the probability that the modification may have qriginated in the 

 natural mode which I have described. 



It is to be regretted that Lubbock did not make an examination 

 of the alimentary canal of his species, which, with tlie material 

 and resources at his command, would doubtless have been highly 

 satisfactory. However, I undertook from my limited material, to 

 make at least so mucli of a stud}^ of the digestive organs as would 

 permit some comparison with results obtained from Hortus- 

 deorum. I had but one perfect specimen, which is figured Plate 

 •X, fig. 74. The abdomen of this example was removed and care- 

 fully mounted without rupturing the abdominal walls. The 

 result is shown at Plate IX, fig. 71, and as will at once be seen, 

 corresponds with those obtained fully from Hortus-deorum, and 

 as far as pursued, from Mexicanus also. The crop (fig. 71) fills 

 the cavity of the abdomen, and the rest of the digestive organs 

 are seen crowded into the anal region. The gizzard has the 

 general features of that of Hortus-deorum, but has marked charac- 

 teristics, quite identical with those of the genus Camponotus as 

 pointed out by Forel.' The sepals are not deflected at the anterior 

 pole, as in the lily-shaped sepals of Hortus-deorum, but are clavate 

 and straight. 



This fact certainly strengthens the conclusion arrived at con- 

 cerning the American species of honey-bearer, viz., that the rotund 

 has been developed by natural habit from the ordinary worker, 

 and that the possibilities of such a condition exist in the structure 

 and functions of all nectar-feeding ants. Why the extraordinarily 

 distended crop seen in the honey-ant should be limited to two 



' Etudes Myrmecologiques, Bull. Soc. Vaud. de Sci. Nat. 1878. PI 

 XXIII, fig. 1. 




1881]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 61 



species (so far as known), and why so limited a number of workers 

 in the formicaries of these two species should develop the round 

 abdomen, are questions that provoke sufficient wonder, but j-ield 

 scant satisfaction. 



XI. Possible Organs of Stridl'lation in Ants. 



The segmental plates of the abdomen are composed of numer- 

 ous hexagonal epithelial scales, PI. YII, fig. 48, which present a 

 very beautiful appearance, as of delicate mosaics, when viewed 

 througli a microscope. When a profile view of one of these plates 

 is exposed to the lens, as at fig. 49, the scales are seen to be 

 imbricated, that is, to overlap each other like tiles on a house 

 roof, and show the serrate edge figured in the cuts, figs. 49 and 

 50. The former (49) is drawn from a section of Gamponotus 

 inflatus, and the latter (50) from Hortus-deorum. This serrate 

 edge not only shows upon the external part of the plate e. ab. pL, 

 but upon the imbricated portion, i. ab. pi. By referring to the 

 manner in which the one part overlaps the other shown at figs. 

 53, 54, it may be seen that a backward and forward motion of 

 the plates iipon each other might produce a faint rasping sound. 

 That this motion is entirely possible can hardly be doubted. The 

 abdominal plates are continually, though gradually, sliding out 

 and in, like the parts of a telescope, under the expansion and 

 contraction of the crop, as the ant feeds or regurgitates the con- 

 tained nectar. All that is required to have the complete condi- 

 tions for stridulation seems, therefore, to be the muscular ability 

 to perform this action rapidly; which, it appears to me, ants cer- 

 tainly possess. 



I have often noticed the peculiar hiss-z-z-z ! which arises from 

 an excited colonj^ or column of ants, a sound which grows in 

 intensity according to the degree of excitement. I have also met 

 an opinion prevalent among ordinary observers, that the ants 

 produce this sound by some organ analogous to some one of those 

 by which other insects produce musical notes or noises — in short 

 (to use the popular phrase), that "ants sing." But I have here- 

 tofore been disposed to consider the noise referred to simply as 

 the result of friction of a great multitude of insects moving rapidly 

 over the surface of the earth, the litter of leaves, twigs, etc., and 

 against the hard, shell-like bodies of their fellows, or possibly (also) 

 b}' the gratings of the hard tooth-like mandibles upon each other. 




62 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



I am not yet prepared to abandon this opinion, nor to affirm that 

 ants do produce audible sounds by proper stridulating organs ; 

 but simply record the structural possibility of such behavior. 



Since making the above note, Mr. Swinton's work on "Insect 

 Variety " ^ has reached me. The author records an example of 

 what seemed to be an act of stridulation by a small yellow ant, 

 Myrmica ruginodis. 



This insect was observed stationed near the edge of an inverted 

 wine glass, underneath which it had been confined, its head down- 

 ward, rapidly vibrating its abdomen vertically from the pedicle, 

 and simultaneously giving out a continuous singing sound, in 

 color and intensity resembling the sharp whining of the little 

 dipteron Syrilla pipens. 



Concluding that the rhythmical motion accompanying the 

 music indicated this ant as a stridulator, the author undertook a 

 microscopic stud^^ of its anatomy, from which the following facts 

 appear : ^ The ant belongs to the family Myrmicid^, which are 

 distinguished from the Formicid^, to which our honey ant 

 belongs, by having two knots or nodes to the petiole. The second 

 or posterior knot is commonly the larger, and is placed quite near 

 to the anterior pole of the abdomen. Upon the insertion of the 

 abdomen into this node, were observed twelve minute yet regular 

 annular striae. (PI. X, fig. 81.) This stria'ion was produced, but 

 less distinctly, upon the articulation of this (the second) node 

 with the first (anterior) node. It was conjectured that the rapid 

 movement of these joints of the petiole, back and forward upon 

 each other and upon the abdomen (like the jointed tubes of a 

 telescope), produced the sound above described. As the nodes 

 are to be regarded as abbreviated segments of the abdomen, and 

 as the abdominal segments have already been shown to be capable 

 of movement one upon another, Mr. Swinton's interesting obser- 

 vation gives new value to the suggestion above made concerning 

 the structural possibility of stridulation in the honey ant and 

 others of like organism. 



1 "Insect Variety, its Propagation and Distribution," by A. H. Swin- 

 ton, member of the Entomological Society of London, p. 106, and PI. VI, 

 fig. 7. 



2 The writer's account is somewhat confused by false punctuation, and 

 he falls into the error of conjecturing that the small worker may have been 

 a male. I have given my understanding of the structure as derived chiefly 

 from the figure, which I reproduce with some alteration. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 63 



XII. Destruction of the Ants by Mites. 



The untimely end of my artificial colonies is worthy of a passing 

 note. The ants were brought from Colorado in large jars, domi- 

 ciled in their native soil. Every precaution which circumstances 

 would allow was taken to preserve their health, but after a con- 

 finement of over seven months, during which mau}^ of the obser- 

 vations noted above were made, they became infested with mites. 

 These parasites, or their germs, were probably brought from 

 Colorado with the insects, although I did not observe them until 

 late in their imprisoment. However, I have seen the same or 

 similar parasites upon other ants while in their home-nest, and 

 more than once have suffered the loss of colonized formicaries 

 from their inroads. 



In the case of the hone^- ants I was powerless to give relief of 

 any kind, and witnessed with real grief the helpless little sufferei's 

 in their struggles to free themselves from their destroyers. I have 

 figured the head of an ant thus infested, at PI. VII, fig. 39, where 

 the mites ma}" be seen clinging to the cheek, mandibles and 

 antennae. I have spared the feelings of my readers so far as to 

 figure but a few of the pests. In point of fact they literally 

 covered the moiith parts, where they were chiefly congregated, 

 although the}' were attached to other parts of the bod}-. The 

 poor " host," although so admirably provided with implements 

 for cleansing her person — such as the mandibles, mouth and tarsal 

 comb— found all efforts to rid herself of her " guests " futil^. 

 Even that friendly aid in toilet service which one emmet is wont 

 to extend to another, was vain. Graduall}^ the poor victim 

 yielded life to the parasitic swarm that sucked at her vital juices. 

 The charnel-house — the little cemetery centre at one side of the 

 formicar}' — gained many inmates daily ; the galleries and cham- 

 bers thinned of their busy populace and grew lonely ; at last, as 

 in some plague-stricken human commonwealth, the dead were 

 suffered to lie where they fell, for the living were themselves 

 sealed to death, and unable to give their comrades sepulture. So 

 my nests faded away, until, unwilling longer to witness their suf- 

 ferings, I gave them all a painless death. 



My studies were seriously interfered with by this calamit}-, as 

 many of my well-nigh ripened experiments thus came to nought. 

 But one cannot complain, for Nature and Destiny pursue ants 




64 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



also, and that this i)articular form of insect doom is unhappily 

 not rare has long ago been voiced in tlie familiar couplet : — 



" Great fleas have little fleas, they smaller fleas to bite 'em ; 

 Smaller fleas have lesser fleas, and so ad infinitum,^'' 



One might pass to the opposite pole of the zoological series — 

 TVIan — and add the I'eflection of Quintus Serenus upon the death 

 of the Dictator Sylla : — 



'* Great Sylla, too, the fatal scourge hath known, 

 * Slain by a host far mightier than his own," 



It might be supposed, at least I had so thought, that the 

 presence of these parasites would greatly irritate the ants, and 

 produce an excited behavior, and animated struggles to be rid of 

 their guests. On the contrary, they endured the affliction with 

 wonderful patience. It seemed to me, although one must allow 

 in such cases for the anthropomorphic color upon his observa- 

 tions, that the unfortunate creatures were quite conscious of their 

 doom, of the hopelessness of contending against it, and had 

 yielded tliemselves in a philosophic resignation. 



The mites are, in color, white, almost transparent, and are 

 about one millimetre in length. I am not certain as to the species, 

 but present correct drawings of the animals, from wdiich they 

 ma}' be determined by a competent authority. (See PI. VII, 

 figs. 40, 41). Greatly magnified views, in several degrees of ex- 

 pansion, of the sucking organs, by which the mites cling to their 

 host, are shown at figs. 42, 43, 44. 



XIII. Previous Accounts of the Honey-Ant. 



The first account of the Honey-ant was given to the world by Dr. 

 Pablo de Llave, in the year A. D. 1832, in a Mexican journal.' 

 A translation into French of the substance of this paper was given 

 by Monsieur H. Lucas in the French Review and Magazine of 

 Zoology, June, 1860.^ Meanwhile (1838), M. Wesmael had pub- 

 lished a description of the ant, with figures, without knowledge of 

 the above paper of Llave, establishing for it the Genus Myrmeco- 

 CYSTUS. Wesmael 's generic name remains, but his specific name 



^ Registro trimestre o collecion de Memorias de Historia literatura cien- 

 cias y Artes, 1832. 

 2 Revue et Magazin de Zoologie, Tome XII, 18G0, p. 271. 




1881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 65 



{Mexicanus) has of course yielded to that of Llave, modified, 

 liowever, from MeUigera to MelUger. The Colorado insects, upon 

 "which the studies of this paper are based, I have ventured to 

 regard as a new variety, and have named Myrmecocystus liortus- 

 deorum, and thus have retained Wesmael's name as a variety name. 



It will be well to state briefly the facts in the economy of these 

 insects indicated in the foregoing and other papers, in order to 

 mark precisely the new facts which have now been communicated 

 here. 



Llave 's information was all at second hand, he having made no 

 personal observations of the habits of Melliger. From a person 

 living at Dolores, a village in the vicinitj^ of the cit}^ of Mexico, 

 he learned : 



1. That the ants were popularly known under the name of 

 Busileras; 



2. That they do not erect heaps of earth at the entrance to their 

 nests ; 



3. That on opening the nest, a species of gallerj' is reached, to 

 the roof of which certain ants are suspended, packed one against 

 the other ; 



4. That these ants cover the roof as well as the wall of the 

 gallery. 



5. The women and children of the valley know these nests per- 

 fectly well, and frequently open them for the sake of the honey- 

 bearers, or rotunds. The honej' is sucked from the abdomen of the 

 rotunds, with great relish, at the nests ; or, if it is wished to pre- 

 serve them, they are lifted by the head and thorax and placed 

 upon plates, in which they grace the village feasts, and are eaten 

 as delicacies. 



6. The rotunds when thus placed together, stir around, lay hold 

 of and tear one another, and finally end life by bursting. 



7. The skin of the abdomen, which binds the segments together, 

 is so thin, and the upper coat so distended, on account of the 

 quantity of honey which it encloses, that the least pressure suf- 

 fices to cause the ants to disgorge. 



8. When they do not so disgorge, that is, by elevating the head 

 and thorax, the honey diminishes, and the ants eat it. 



9. Dr. Llave observed, moreover, from specimens of the ants 

 sent to him, that there were difterent castes of workers and degrees 

 of distension in the abdomens, and 




66 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



10. That the honey in the rotunds varied in color from a crystal 

 "whiteness to a wine-color. 



Several of the above statements, as has been seen, are without 

 foundation, but the majority of them are confirmed in whole or 

 part b}"^ my observations. 



Wesmael,^ who made his study from specimens sent him from 

 Mexico bj^ the Belgian Envoy, Baron Normann, records his 

 credence of the theory announced by that gentleman, viz., that 

 the honey-bearer elaborates the honey and deposits it in certain 

 reservoirs, analogous to the cells of bees, for the nurture of the 

 formicary. Baron Normann was unable to obtain examples of 

 these reservoirs to send to Europe, or rather failed to do so under 

 the conviction that they would be destroyed during shipment. In 

 point of fact, such reservoirs exist only in imagination. 



One of the most perplexing accounts of the honey-ant is that of 

 Mr. Henry Edwards.^ The statements recorded are made at 

 second hand from the verbal narrative of a Capt. W. B. Fleeson, 

 whose observations were made at or near Santa Fe. They 

 are so extraordinary and contradictor}' of my own experiences, 

 that I am compelled to withhold credence, until some experienced 

 observer shall have corroborated them, a result of which I have 

 little expectation. According to this account, no exterior mound- 

 let surmounts the formicary, but simply two openings into the 

 earth. Within the nest, at a depth of about three feet, "a small 

 excavation is reached, across which is spread, in the form of a 

 spider's web, a network of squares spread by the insects, the 

 squares being about one-quarter inch across, and the ends of the 

 web^ fastened firmly to the earth at the sides of the hollowed 

 space which forms the bottom of the excavation. In each one of 

 the sqiiares, supported by the web, sits one of the honey-making 

 workers, apparently in the condition of a prisoner, as it does not 

 appear that these creatures ever quit the nest." 



But the marvels of this strange story are not exhausted. " The 



1 Bulletin de 1' Acad. Roy. des Sci. et Belles lettre de Bruxelles, Tome 

 V p. 770. PI. XIX, figs. 1-4. 



2 Proceed. California Acad, of Sciences, Vol. V. 1873, p. 72 ; " Notes on 

 the Honey-making Ants of Texas and New Mexico." 



^ Of course, this is pure fiction, as no ant makes a web, or anything that 

 could well suggest one. The cutting ant does make out of fragments of 

 leaves a "comb" of more or less regular cells, resembling the nests of the 

 paper-making wasps. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 67 



inmates of the formicaiy are composed of two distinct species, 

 apparently even of different genera, of ants. There are the ordi- 

 nary yellow workers and houey-bearers of Melliger, and besides, 

 black workers, who act as guards and purveyors. One column of 

 the blacks surrounds the openings on three sides, attacking, 

 driving off or destroj'ing all intruding insects. Another column 

 bears, through the unguarded side of the hollow square, fragments 

 of flowers, aromatic leaves and pollen, which (adds our author), 

 by a process analogous to that of the bee, the honej'-makers con- 

 vert into honej'." 



One can hardly refrain from the thought that Capt. Fleeson 

 was testing the credulity of the writer by one of those jokes of 

 which naturalists are occasionally the victims. But, if the narra- 

 tive is to be taken in good faith, I can onl}^ explain the facts by 

 supposing, first, that the observer happened upon a nest of cutting- 

 ants (Atta fervens), within whose boundaries a nest of Melliger 

 had chanced to be established, and had confounded the habits of 

 the two as those of one formicary; or, second, that the cutting- 

 ant, or some other species of similar economy, has really acquired 

 the habit of kidnapping and domesticating the honej'-ant for the 

 sake of its treasured sweets, precisely as man}^ ants domesticate 

 aphides ; or, as the slave-making ants, Formica sanguinea and 

 Folyergus lucidus, domesticate Formica fusca and F. Schauffusxi.^ 



One of the latest accounts of the honey-ant, and so far as it 

 goes, one of the best, is that of Mr, Saunders, the editor of the 

 Canadian Entomologist,^ who communicates to his journal some 

 observations made by Mr. Kummeck, at Santa Fe.^ According 

 to this observer, considerable numbers of these insects are found 

 in the mountains of that vicinity. He sat by a nest six or seven 



1 One may not be over rash in refusing belief even to facts that go counter 

 to all past experiences, for the marvels of Nature are ever widening within 

 our view. While, therefore, I am inclined to reject the whole story, I await 

 the observation of some trained naturalist, giving the account the benefit 

 of the above possible explanations. 



2 Can. Entom., 1875, Vol. VII, pp. 12-13. 



* I may be permitted to explain why I did not go to New Mexico, to 

 attempt on the spot a solution of some of the questions raised by these 

 accounts. I had made every arrangement to do so, after my studies in the 

 Garden-of-the-gods were completed, but on the morning that I was to break 

 camp, was taken with a sudden and violent illness which compelled me to 

 abandon my journey. 




68 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



hours and noticed the workers carry home leaves of different plants 

 to feed, as he supposed, "the others that produce the honey," 

 This would seem to conhrm the leaf-bearing habit quoted by Mr. 

 Edwards from Capt. Fleeson. The inference as to the use of 

 these leaves is, however, quite unwarranted, as the portage of 

 leaves, etc., into nests is not an uncommon habit among ants 

 of divers species. Without stopping to discuss the question 

 whether such material may contribute to the food suppl}' of the 

 formicary, it may be remarked that its most probable and ordinary 

 use is for purposes of architecture or nest-building, 



Mr. Kurameck also makes the remark, which I had not seen 

 at the time my own conclusions had been reached, that " in early 

 life none of these insects present any unusual distension of the 

 body, but when arrived at a certain period of maturity some 

 individuals begin to show a distended abdomen." 



The ant honey has no commercial value among the New Mexi- 

 cans. It has a place, however, as a remedy in the domestic thera- 

 peutics of the native Indians, who compound a drink by mixing 

 three to four drachms of the honey with six ounces of water. The 

 drink is used in cases of fever. The honey is also applied as an 

 unguent in eye diseases, especially cataract. 



To the above may properly be added two accounts of my own 

 studies published in the London Jow^-nal of Science} These are 

 reports made hy Mr. Morris, of the verbal communications in 

 which my observations were originally announced to the Academy 

 of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia. They were made and printed 

 without any oversight or responsibility on my part, but are 

 admirably, and in the main, accurately done. They have been 

 reproduced with various degrees of fulness in other journals. 



Such other notices of this ant as I have been able to find, and 

 have had occasion to use, will be found properly referred to in the 

 text of this paper, where those who are interested in the literature 

 can readil}^ find them. 



1 .Tour. Sci., February, 1880, '' Living Honey Comb ; a novel phase of 

 Ant Life." By Mr, C, Morris. Ibid. July, 1880, "Habits and Anatomy 

 of the Honey-bearing Ant." By Charles Morris. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 69 



XIV. Description of Species. 



FORMICARI.E. 



Family FORMICIDJE. 



Subfamily CAMPOXOTID^ (Forel). 



Genus MYRMECOCYSTUS, Wesmael, 



CataglypMs, Foerster, Vevli. d, Nat. Ver. d. Rheinl., 1850 , Mayr, Europ. 



Formic, 1861; Norton, Wheeler's Report, Vol. V, Zool., p. 734. 

 Monocumbus, Mayr, Verb. d. Zool.-bot. Ver. in Wien, 1855. 

 Myrmecocystus, Forel, Etudes Myrmecologiques, Bull. Soc. Vaud. de Sci. 



Nat. 



M. melliger, Llave. 



1. Var. mexicanus, Wesm. 



2. Var. hortus-deorum, McCook. 



Workers. — Three castes, major, minor and minim or dwarf. 

 Color, a uniform light yellow ; the body is covered quite tliickly, 

 the legs more thickl}', with short yellow hairs. The maxillary 

 palps are very long, six-jointed, third joint longest ; they are 

 covered, especially beneath, with long hairs, curved backward. 

 Lf\,bial palps four joints ; mandibles with nine teeth. The head is 

 quadrate, in the worker-major more rounded at the sides than 

 with the minor and dwarf; wider than the thorax. Clypeus 

 smooth, rounded, slightly flattened in front of the frontal area. 

 Frontal area smooth, shining, triangular, somewliat truncated 

 posteriorly. Ocelli sufficiently prominent ; a tuft of hairs on the 

 face beneath, directed forward. The body is of good length, 

 narrow and compressed beneath at the mesothorax ; metanotum 

 as high as, or slightly higher than the pronotum. The node 

 cordate, cleft at the tip, thickened at the base, set perpendicularly 

 upon the petiole. Anns strong!}' ciliated. Length, worker-major, 

 8^ mm. ; worker-minor, 7 mm, ; worker-minim, 5^ mm. 



Honey-bearers —A sedentary class or caste distinguished by 

 alxloraens distended into spherical form by expansion of the crop 

 filled with grape-sugar. The length (including abdomen) is 13 

 mm. (one-half inch) ; the proportions and description of the head 

 and body are those of the worker-major, of which it may be a 

 developed form. 



Female Virgin queen, total length, 13 mm., as follows : Man- 

 dibles, 1 m. ; head, 2 mm. ; body, 5 mm. ; abdomen, 5 mm. Width 




70 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



of abdomen, 3 mm. ; of prothorax, 2 mm. Color, livid yellow. 

 Fore-wing, 14 mm. long; venation as in PI. X, fig. 17. 



Male. — Length, 5 mm. ; length of fore-wing, 5^ mm. Color, 

 livid yellow ; the head, upper part of thorax and dorsum of abdo- 

 men blackish. The mandible has one feeble tooth at the tip, and 

 two others shorter and feebler. 



Habitat. — Southern Colorado, occupying subterranean formica- 

 ries with small gravel-covered exterior moundlet, pierced by one 

 central gallery. 



ALPHABETICAL KEY TO REFERENCES IN THE 

 PLATES. 



The references are uniform in application throughout all the 

 figures. References which occur only once, and are explained in 

 the " Explanation of Plates," are not placed in the Key. 



«6., abdomen. 

 ab. pi., abdominal plate. 

 ah. pi. (Z, abdominal plate dorsal. 

 ah. p>l. I', abdominal plate ven- 

 tral, 

 a??, anus. 



an. sp, scape of antenna. 

 ant^ antennse. 



he. s, buccal or mouth sac. 

 h. gz^ bowl of gizzard. 

 hn. gz, button of gizzard. 

 h. ms, branched muscles. 



CL, Clypeus. 



G. ms, crop muscles. 



Col, colon. 



Cy. gz, cylinder of gizzard. 



D, dorsal. 



E, epithelium. 



E. I. s, epithelium imbricated, 

 serrate edge.] 



E. ab. pi, exterior abdominal 



plate. 

 Epc, epicranium. 



f. ar, frontal area. 

 fe77i, femora. 

 Jig, flagellum of antenna. 

 fm, foramen. 



yz, gizzard. 



hy, hypopygium. 



i. ah. pZ, interior abdominal plate. 



il, ileum. 



il. V, ileo-secal valve. 



in, intestine. 



lb, labium. 



lb. p, labial paljjs. 



Ibm, labrum. 



vih, mandibles, 

 mo, mouth. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA 71 



mpg, malpighian tubes. pr. th, prothorax. 



VIS, muscles. py, pygidium. 



m. th, mesothorax. px, pharynx 



met. th, metathorax. 



m. tr, metatarsus. ^^' ^^«^"°^- 



mx, maxilla. ^^- ^h rectal glands. 



mx. p, maxillary palpi. g_ ^^^ g^p^lg ^f; gizzard. 



stm, stomach. 



nd, node of petiole 

 7ik, neck. 



str, striae. 

 su, sucker. 



00^9, occiput. tib, tibia. 



^^' ocelli. i^^ tongue, 



ffi, esophagus. t,.^ tarsus. 



2). ms, pharj-ngeal muscle. V, ventral. 



EXPLANATIOX OF PLATES.^ 



Plate I. 



Fig. 2. Yiew of my camp in the Garden of the gods, showing 

 the site of some of the nests of the honey ants studied. The 

 view is taken from the rocks at the junction of Adams and Yon 

 Hagen ridges (see Fig. 1, p. 19), and looks towards the south, and 

 the eastern face of Pike's Peak. One of the nests is shown in 

 the foreground, and the sites of others are indicated by the white 

 circles on the tops of the ridges. My tent and booth are seen 

 near the centre of the sketch, and just opposite, on the right, is 

 the oak copse in which the ants were discovered feeding on the 

 exudations of galls. Page 19. 



Plate II. 



Fig. 3. Elevated gravel cone of a honey-ant nest ; the gravel is 

 of red sandstone, and the rocks around are bits of quartz of several 

 colors, giving a prett}^ effect. This nest is the largest seen, 

 and measures three and one-half inches high and thirty-two inches 

 around the base. Page 21 



^ Mr. Joseph Jeanes, a member of the Academy of Natural Sciences 

 of Philadelphia, contributed the money required for the illustration of 

 this paper, and thus has greatly added to whatever value it may possess. 




73 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Fig. 4. A nest built partly around a tuft of gramma grass, and 

 less conical in shape than the above, 



Plate III. 



Fig. 5. View of honey-bearers as seen in natural site, clinging 

 to the roof of a honey-room. About natural size. Page 22. 



Fig. 6. View of honey -bearers in same position, drawn from 

 one of m}' artificial nests. Mingled with them are seen ordinary 

 workers, and semi-rotunds, or workers apparently in process of 

 transformation into honey-bearers. About natural size. 



Plate IV. 



Fig. 7. Sprig of dwarf oak, Quercus undulata, with galls of 

 Cynips quercus-mellaria, showing the beads of sweet sap. Page 25. 



Fig. 8. The same galls enlarged. 



Fig. 9. Another cluster of the same galls. 



Fig, 10. Section of gall showing the inside cell, c, and the exit 

 hole of .the gall-fly, eh. Page 26. 



Fig. 11. Turk's-head'gall, showing exit-hole, eh. 



Fig. 12. View of inside of a gall, showing a globular cell, and 

 a small grub domiciled against it. Page 27. 



Fig. 13. A honey-bearer clinging by her feet to the wall of a 

 honey-room. Page 22. 



Fig. 14. The crater of a gate to an ant's nest, showing the grav- 

 eled funnel, F, and the smooth nozzle, N. Page 32. 



Fig. 15. Outline of the elevation of a formicary. Page 35. 



Plate V. 



Fig. 16. Double section view of the interior of a nest, drawn 

 from a point in the excavaticm twenty-one inches below the sur- 

 face. Nest made in soft, red sandstone, g, y, g, galleries arranged 

 in stories. R, R, R, vertical sections through hone3^-rooms and 

 chambers for nursery purposes. C, D, E, the floors of a suite of 

 honey-rooms, showing their connection with the general S3'stem. 

 Page 86. 



Fig. 17. The three honey-rooms C, D, E, above referred to, and 

 the indication of a fourth, F. Length of C from a to 6 = 5 inches ; 

 D, from c to d = 3| inches ; E, from e to /i = 4 inches. Eleva- 

 tion of h above x = B^ inches ; of b above e = 6 inches. A little 

 stairway united D with C and F ; g,g, a, gallery. Page 36. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Y3 



Fig. 18. Section through middle of nest, showing the gate 

 architecture. G, gate; X, nozzle; A, arm of the gate gallery 

 terminating in the vestibule V. a, 6, c, branching galleries. 

 Page 32. 



Fig. 10. A similar section of another nest. Letters as above; 

 E, a small room, with gallery/!, leading downward. 



Fig. 20. Similar section of another nest. The main gallerj^ 

 branches to the right, and passes behind the gate, b, &, 6, into room 

 A. E, C, small bays or rooms; D, D, ee, curved and branched 

 gallery on the same plane, with openings downward g, gr, g. 

 Page 33. 



Fig. 21. A honey-room, HR ; g; gallery leading into the gate 

 gallery, G ; ug, unbroken part of same ; B, small bay -room. 

 Page 34. 



Fig. 22. Termination of excavated nest, 6 feet 10 inches from 

 gate. 2 feet 5 inches below surface. ^ y, galler}^ entrance; C, 

 •Queen-room, 4 inches diameter. E, Small bay-room, apparently 

 beginning of a chamber ; t (/, terminal gallerj-, running upwards 

 as though the ants were in process of excavating a room resem- 

 bling C. Page 36. 



Fig. 23. Sloping section through middle of nest, showing rela- 

 tion of gate to the upper series of galleries and rooms. A, B, 

 hone3M'Ooms ; ar, y, z, main galleries; 1, 2, 3, side openings. 

 Page 33. 



Fig. 24. A honey-bearer regurgitating hone}' from her crop at 

 the solicitation of hungry workers. Page 46. 



Fig. 25. Sentinels on guai'd at the gate. Page 20. 



Plate YI. 



Fig. 26. A queen dragged home b}^ a worker. Page 38. 



Fig. 27. A honej^-bearer dragged and pushed by a worker-major 

 and dwarf from a broken room into a galler}^ Page 39. 



Fig. 28. A honey -bearer under a " land.slide," one worker look- 

 ing on, curious but inactiA'e, another on the clod at her toilet. 

 Page 41. 



Fig. 29. Queen surrounded b}' her "court " or body-gunvd of 

 attendant workers. Page 38. 



Fig. 30. Workers carrying a pebble up the mound. 



Fig. 31. Honey-bearer parti}' buried alive under pellets brought 

 up by mining workers. Page 40. 

 6 




74 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Fig. 32. Honey-bearer fallen from her perch, being cleansed by 

 a worker, who reaches down from the wall. Page 40, 



Fig. 33. Ilonej'-bearer with (apparently) morbid abdomen. 

 Page 58. 



Fig. 34. Worker nurses feeding and cleansing larvfe. Page 43. 



Fig. 35. Yiew of vertical section of a nest, showing galleries 

 arranged in stories. See PI. V, fig. 16. G, location of gate ; a — ^, 

 e — z, k — Z, galleries ; R, R, sections of honey-rooms. Page 36, and 

 foot-note. 



Fig. 36. A worker dragging a honey-bearer up a perpendicular 

 surface into a galler}^ Page 39. 



Plate YII. 



Fig. 37. Yiew of the under side of the head of Myrmecocystus 

 hortus-deorum, showing the mouth organs. X 20, Page 20. 



The letter-references in this and subsequent anatomical figures 

 are imiform throughout. The Key to References, therefore (p. 

 70), will apply to all figures. 



Fig. 38. Face sculpture of same. X 20, Page 20. 



Fig. 39, Side view of head of worker to show parasitic mites 

 clinging thereto. The mites are about natural size. Page 63. 



Fig. 40 Dorsal view of mites greatly enlarged. 



Fig. 41. Yentral view of same. 



Fig. 42. One of the suckers, su, contracted. 



Figs. 43 and 44, the same further drawn out. 



Fig. 45. Muscles of the honey crop, showing their netted and 

 branched character. X 30, Page 54. 



Fig. 46. The same, from margin of the crop. G. ws, crop 

 muscles ; b. ms, branched muscles. 



Fig. 47. Third leg of 31. 7ior^us-(?eorwm, worker-minor. X 10. 



Fig. 48. Section of segmental plate of abdomen of honey ant, 

 showing hexagonal cells of epithelium, and a bristle-like hair, or 

 seta, arising therefrom. 



Fig. 49. Profile view of segmental plates of Camponotus vijlatus, 

 showing the overlapping of the same, and the imbricated epithelial 

 cells, forming a rachet-like structure which suggests the possibility 

 of a sound-producing organism, e. ab. pl^ exterior abdominal plate ; 

 i, ab. pi, interior ditto. Page 61. 



Fig. 50. Profile view of abdominal plate of M. hortus-deorum^ 

 to show, the same. 




1881.] NATLTIAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. t5 



« 



Fig. 51. After Lubbock. Section through the head of Lasius 

 niger^ to show site of buccal sac, he. s, the pharynx, j9^, and its 

 muscles, p. ms. X 36, Page 52. 



Fig. 52. View of the cesophagus of a worker of M. hortus- 

 deorum. One side of the thorax and petiole are cut awaj' in order 

 to show the oesophagus in site. X 18, Page 53. 



Fig. 53. Abdomem of hone}^ ant, showing the segmental plates 

 both dorsal (D) and ventral (V) in normal conditi(m of the crop. 

 X 16, Page 53. 



Fig. 54. Same, when separated by partly expanded crop. 

 Page 53. 



Plate YIII. 



Fig. 55. Entire crop with gizzard and stomach. Dissected 

 from a honey -bearer with morbid abdomen. X 14, Page 53. 



Fig. 56. Crop, gizzard, stomach, malpighian tubes and intestine. 

 From honey-bearer. X 14, Page 54. 



Fig. 51. Enlarged view of gizzard. X 50, Page 55. 



Fig. 58. After Forel. Topographic, somewhat diagrammatic 

 representation of the organs opening into the cloaca of Botlirio- 

 myrmex meridionalis g, enlarged 18 times. 



4, 5 and 6, optical section of the tergal chitinous pieces of what 

 are reallj?^ the 4th, 5th and 6th abdominal segments (nodes of the 

 petiolus reckoned as one segment). Opposite and beneath there 

 are shown the sterna of the corresponding segments. <Zo, dorsal 

 vessel; an. u, right anal vesicle; an. gl, right anal gland; Can, 

 intestinal canal (intestine and rectum) ; po. v, poison vesicle with 

 gland ; ac. gl, accessory gland of the poison apparatus ; Ou, rudi- 

 mentary ovaries with vagina ; ab. g, the last three abdominal 

 ganglia of the ventral cord with their commissures. 



Between 6 and the corresponding sternal plate (6'), lies a cleft 

 (shown wide open in the figure) which leads into the cavity of the 

 cloaca. In this cavity one finds, reckoning downwards from 6 

 to 6': 



1. 0, the common openiiig of the anal vesicles. 2. an, anus 

 (opening of rectum). 3. r. st, rudimentar}^ sting, into which the 

 poison vesicle opens, and then lower down, the accessory gland of 

 the poison apparatus. 4. o. sa, opening of the rudimentary fgmale 

 sexual apparatus. 



Fig. 59. Crop in normal condition, from a virgin queen. The 

 junction, j», of the abdomen with the petiole is bent over, showing 




T6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



a part of the a^sophagus as drawn from the petiole. The contin- 

 uation of the same, ce. c, within tlie abdomen is shown : also the 

 relation of gizzard to both crop and stomach. X 14, Page 53. 



Fig. 60. View of the intestine from the posterior pole of the 

 abdomen to the anus. X 35, Page 56. 



Plate IX. 



Fig. 61. S^'nthetic figure exhibiting the entire course of the ' 

 alimentary canal, from mouth to anus. Page 56. 



Figs. 62-^0 compose a series illustrating the progressive disten- 

 sion of the crop from the normal condition to that of the honey- 

 bearer. Page 56. 



The series begins Avith Figs. 63 and 66, where the crop is normal ; 

 in fig. 66 the crop has shrunken after distension. 



Fig. 64. Worker crop, half filling abdomen. 



Figs. 62, 65. Workers-major, or semi-rotunds, with distension 

 of crop still further adA'anced. 



Fig. 67. Abdomen of a worker-minor, showing same process ot 

 distension. 



Fig. 68. Abdomen of a honej'-bearer, opened at. the slit, s, to 

 puncture the crop and exhibit by its shrinking away the fact that 

 the crop fills the cavity of the abdomen. Page 57, 



Fig. 69. Full crop of honey-bearer, with the lower part of the 

 alimentary canal shown through the abdominal wall against which 

 it is pressed, and evidently in healthy condition. Page 57. 



Fig. 70, Abdomen of honey-bearer, the full crop pressing the 

 gizzard, stomach, etc., into the cloacal cavity-. Page 57-8. 



Fig, 71, Abdomen of the Australian carpenter-ant, Camponotus 

 inflatus, exhibiting the characteristic distension of M. hortus- 

 deorum. Drawn from an alcoholic spe(!imen. The figure is 

 somewhat flattened by pressure ; other abdomens in my possession 

 are quite spherical. The gizzard, stomach (ruptured and stretched) 

 and intestine are shown in the same relative position as in the 

 honey ant. Page 58. 



Plate X. 



Fig. 72. Side view of honej^-bearer, M. hortus-deorum. X 3. 

 Fig; 73. Dorsal view of same. X 3, Page 69. 

 Fig. 74. Honey-bearer of Camponotus injiatus, dorsal view 

 X 3, Page 59. 



Figs. 75, 76. Male of M. hortus-deorum. X 5. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 17 



Figs. 71, 78. Winged female, or virgin qneen of tlie same. X 3. 



Fig. 79. Worker-minor of If. /lor^MS-tZeorwrn. X 5. The workers- 

 major and minor or dwarf are exactly similar in form, only longer 

 in the proportions given in the description. Page 69. 



Figs. 80, 81. Node or scale of the petiole queen of hone}^ ant, 

 side and front views. X 10. 



Fig. 82. In part, after Swinton ; to show the stria?, s^?', supposed 

 stidulating organs, upon the junction of the abdomen and second 

 node, 2. nd, and also on junction of second node with the first 

 (1. ml,) of Myrmica ruginodis. 




IS PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



MA'kCH 1. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 



March 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Fifty-eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " On the Structure, Affinities and Species of 

 Scolopendrella," by J. A. Ryder, was presented for publication. 



Prof. Angelo Heilprin delivered the introductory to his course 

 of lectures on Invertebrate Paleontology. 



March 15. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Prof. Henry Carvill Lewis delivered the introductor3- to his 

 course of lectures on Mineralogy. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 79 



THE STRTJCTURE, AFFINITIES AND SPECIES OF SCOLOPENDRELLA. 

 BY JOHN A. RYDER, 



Inasmuch as a notice,^ published by nie in the American Natu- 

 ralist for May, 1880, has awakened renewed interest in relation to 

 these singular types, and because the ordinal division proposed 

 by me for their reception has apparently'' been accepted by Dr. 

 LatzeP in his revision of the Austro-Hungarian species of Myria- 

 2)oda, I venture to offer the results of m}' studies for the use of 

 those interested. Since the publication of m}^ notice above referred 

 to, I have met with a paper unknown to me at the time mine was 

 written, which in many respects anticipates the observations made 

 by the writer, and relied upon as characters of ordinal value. The 

 publication here alluded to is entitled " Myriapodender Umgegend 

 von Danzig "^ by Menge, in which the author discusses at length 

 the anatomy of the Scolopendrella immaculata Newp. From his 

 plates and text I find that, while he confirms m}- observations 

 in man}' respects, in others his interpretations conflict with 

 mine. Not only is this the fact with regard to my observations, 

 but also with those of others who have studied the genus. Taken 

 as a whole, the monograph of Menge is, however, by far the most 

 valuable which has yet appeared. 



The following synopsis of Menge's observations will, I think, 

 be found useful. I will preserve as nearly as possible the phrase- 

 olog3' of the German text, which has reference to S. immaculata. 



" Head compressed, ovoid, little longer than wide ; 



antenua3 40-42, articulate, inserted immediately behind the la- 

 brum, the joints compressed fusiform, urn-shaped, the basal ones 

 thicker than long, becoming gradually longer towards the tip, so 

 that the apical joints are more than twice as long as thick ; ter- 

 minal joint acorn-shaped. Each joint is encircled at its middle 



by a circlet of outwardly divergent hairs Behind* the 



insertion of the antennae, at the sides, are two little prominences 

 on the epicranium and alongside and above them on each side 

 is placed a round black ej^e, visible onlj'- under the microscope. 



^ " Scolopendrella as the type of a new order of Articulates (Symphyla)." 

 ^ R. Latzel, " Die Myriapoden der oesterreichisch-ungariscli Mouarchie. 



Erste Halfte. Die Chilopoden," pp. 228, Pis. 10, 8vo. Vienna, 1880. 

 * Neuste Schriften der naturforscheuden Gesellschaft in Danzig, IV, 4tes 



Heft, 4to. 1851. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY Of [1881. 



" Mo nth parts arranged for biting, Lalirum forming the ante- 

 rior portion of the epioranium, and divided into two rounded 

 extremities anteriorly by a mesial emargination, both liah^es ter- 

 minated by three pairs of teeth directed towards each other. 

 Mandibles beneath labrum, somewhat exserted, one jointed, elon- 

 gate, curved inwards, the outer side finely pubescent, the apex 

 armed with four large and five small, hard, brown teeth. Maxillse 

 two-jointed, basal joint C3-lindrical, curving slightly inwards, sur- 

 mounted by two apical pieces, the outer, longest and most slender 

 piece may be regarded as repi-esenting a palpus, w^hile the inner 

 one, which is shorter, terminating in a series of bristles, may be 

 regarded as the second joint of the maxilla;. The labium is an 

 oblong plate divided in the middle b}- a suture. The anterior 

 margin of each half bears three conical teeth. 



" The bod}" consists of twent^'-three somites; twelve principal 

 ones, to which the legs are attached, and ten smaller intermediate 

 and a caudal somite. Each principal or leg-bearing somite has a 

 quadrate sternum which is divided in the middle into two halves 

 by a median furrow ; the narrower intermediate somites have an 

 elongate, undivided sternum, while the sides are covered by a 

 triangular chitinous piece Attached to everj^ leg- 

 bearing somite except the first, behind and alongside of the inser- 

 tion of the legs are a pair of simple, hairj^ appendages. The anal 

 opening is on the ventral side of the bod}- covered hy a rhomboidal 

 almost semicircular plate, the lateral extremities of which extend 

 somewhat beyond the edges of the last dorsal scute. The dorsal 

 surface is covered b}'^ fifteen scutes which are slightly imbricated. 

 The hind margins of the scutes are but slightly emarginated. . . 



" Legs in twelve pairs, or three less than the number of dorsal 

 scutes : no pairs of legs corresponding to the fifth and eighth 

 dorsal and the caudal scutes. The first pair of legs are the 

 smallest, and including the tarsal joint, are four-jointed. The 

 fourth joint is the longest, the tarsal the shortest. The latter is 

 simply a little conical prominence on the outer face of which there 

 are attached two hooked claws 



" The conical caudal appendages are simply an eflerent appa- 

 ratus connected with two long caecal pouches which are filled 

 with a viscous spinning material. The eflerent duct ends between 

 two terminal bristles. 



" Besides the dorsal and sternal scutes there are pairs of liga- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 81 



mentous bauds which join the terga and sterna ; in the hinder 

 somites these bands are joined together dorsally and form an 

 arch. The anterior ones are joined medially below l)}- hiteral 

 processes. They also exist in the head. 



" Tlie digestive apparatus consists of a straight canal which 

 extends from the mouth to the anus. The phaiynx passes between 

 the ligamentous bands of the upper cephalic plates. The aisopha- 

 gus is provided with annular folds and longitudinal and annular 

 muscles The stomach is decidedl}- widened and consists of an 

 elongated cylindrical sac and is covered with brownish hepatic 

 cells ; these cells have finely granular contents. There are no cilia 

 on the inner surface of the stomach or alimentar}^ canal. The 

 stomach is usually of a 3'ellowish brown color because of the 

 contained food, which consists of particles of brown mould or 

 humus, which could not be taken in by a sucking apparatus. 

 The cavit}' of the small intestine is ver}- much more contracted 

 than tliat of the stomach, and at its commencement four vermi- 

 cularly coiled malpighian tubules open into it. 



" Immediately above the anus lies the opening of the oviduct 

 and ovary, the latter consisting of a simple c^dindrical canal with 

 thin transparent walls. Eggs in different stages of development 

 may usually be found therein. 



" I did not see the male sexual organs, as all of the specimens 

 dissected were females. 



" I was not able to study the nervous sj'stem satisfactorily. 

 From the head a simple cord passes backwards, which has scarcely 

 noticeable ganglionic swellings at every somite, from which simple 

 pairs of nerves pass to the legs. 



"The vascular sj^stem consists of a simple straight canal just 

 below the dorsal scutes beginning just behind the head and passing 

 backwards to the caudal appendages where it divides, each branch 

 ending blindl}^ in the latter. The presence of valves in the dorsal 

 vessel, trachea or tracheal openings was not revealed by an amplifi- 

 cation of 4.50 diameters with a Nobert microscope of fine qualitv. 



'' The function of the ventral and caudal appendages is not cer- 

 tainly known. I have on several occasions found specimens of 

 Machilis which had eggs attached to the caudal styles, and I have 

 supposed that these appendages in Scolopendrella have the same 

 use. If a needle is brought into contact with the tips of either 

 of these appendages at the opening of the spinning organ a long 




82 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



thrond nia}^ bo drawn out. It is believed that this spinning appa- 

 ratus is used in fixing or attaching the eggs of the animal. 



" The pairs of legs and the number of joints in the antenute are 

 variable. I found but eleven pairs of legs and seventeen joints 

 in a young animal. Tlie first pair of legs was wanting. In other 

 specimens with twelve pairs of feet I found twenty-five, in others 

 tliirt3'-two, and in others still, forty-two joints in the antennae, 

 the last seems to be the number in full-grown specimens." . . . 



In conclusion our author observes that, " It Avill have been con- 

 cluded from what has been said, that Scolopendrella is distin- 

 guished from Lithobius as well as from Geophilus b}' the very 

 different manducatory apparatus, the double tarsal claws, the 

 ventral and the caudal appendages with the spinning apparatus, 

 and that it does not naturally fall into the same family with either 

 of those genera. On the contrary the animal agrees in its princi- 

 pal characters (excepting the spinning organs) and especially in 

 its habits with Gampodea ; is distinguished from it, however, by 

 the greater niimber of pairs of legs and the dorsal scutes. I 

 believe, accordingly, that Scolopendrella may be regarded as the 

 type of a genus or family intermediate between the six-footed 

 Lepmnidse and the Scolopendriddey 



The foregoing paragraph shows how very nearly Menge had 

 concluded thirty years ago that these singular animals should be 

 separated from the Myriapods proper. The parallel between his 

 conclusions and my own are very striking, as will be seen from 

 the following w^ords from my notice already alluded to. " This 

 form, as interpreted above, becomes of the highest interest to the 

 zoologist, and if the writer is not mistaken, the biunguiculate legs 

 and their nearly complete correspondence in number with rudi- 

 mentary abdominal and functional thoracic limbs of the Thysa- 

 nura, especially 3Iachilis and Lepisma, which also have basal 

 appendages to the legs, indicate as much affinity with insects as 

 with myriapods, and may indeed be looked upon, perhaps, as 

 representing the last survival of the form from which insects may 

 be supposed to have descended. I name the new group Symphyla, 

 in reference to the singular combination of myriapodous, insectean 

 and thj'sanurous characters wliicli it presents." 



Our conclusions as to its zoological position being nearly the 

 same, upon the details of the anatomy w^e disagree. I stated in 

 my note my interpretation of the ventral openings on the third or 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 83 



fourth Ijody segment. (The first condition occurs in immature 

 specimens with less than twelve pairs of legs, the last in adults). 

 '• Genital orifice orf the ventral side of the body opening on the 

 third or fourth body-segment in both sexes. In one sex the open- 

 ing is a simple pore, in the other a longitudinal cleft, closed b}^ 

 means of an oblong chitinous piece on either side, the two together 

 occupying a sub-quadrate space. Heart dorsal ; traclieal sj'stem 

 lepresented by a series of simple tubular arches, without a spiral 

 filament, wliich arise from openings on tlie ventral surface of the 

 animal, inside the bases of the legs, widening and passing upwards 

 to and apparently in close relation with the dorsal vessel. Intes- 

 tine straight, with two ver}^ long, tortuous Malpighian tubules 

 opening into it at the posterior third (S. notacantha).^^ 



The main points of disagreement are in regard to the position 

 of the genital organs and the supposed tracheal arches. Menge 

 states that the oviduct opens posteriorly and above- the anus, and 

 claims to have seen the eggs in the latter and the ovary. As to 

 this point, I did not confirm his observations, although I do not 

 deny that he may have seen real ova. Nor do I now affirm posi- 

 tively that the ventral opening seen b}' me is genital ; the only 

 evidence being the circumstance that I found two kinds in different 

 individuals. Its function maj' be that of the ventral sucker of 

 CoUemhola. Menge also sa3"s he saw no males, which is a curious 

 fact. His statement that the caudal stylets will adhere to a sharp 

 point brought into contact with their tips, I can confirm, and I 

 have also seen a thread drawn from them in *S'. notacantlia. He is 

 confident that what I took for tracheal arches are simph" chitinous 

 rods or ligaments which serve to join the sterna and the scutes. 

 He is mistaken, however, when he affirms that the posterior ones 

 form a continuous arch, since in all the specimens examined by 

 me the arch was broken at the dorsal vessel, the widened ends of 

 the opposite halves of the arches seeming to lie against its sides. 

 The walls of these arched tubes showed double contours under the 

 microscope, which proves them to be hollow. 



He also finds four Malpighian tubules in S. immaculata, whereas 



I find but two in S. notacantlia. He finds as few as seventeen 



joints in the antennas to as manj' as fortj^-two. I find from four- 



. teen to twentj'-eight in two species. Newport,^ speaking of the 



species studied by Menge, finds the joints of the antenme to vary 



1 ^[onograijli of the Class Myriapoda, Order Chilopoda. Trans. Liuu. 

 Soc. XIX, pp. 349-439, 1 PI. 1845. 




84 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



from twelve to twent3'-eiglit, and finds specimens of different ages 

 ■with nine, ten, eleven and twelve pairs of legs. This variability 

 in the number of pairs of legs I have noticed m both the American 

 forms studied by m^'self. Newport also at first thought the 

 creature was nearly related to Geophilus, but afterwards placed it 

 between Lithobius and Scolopendra^ but he at last considered it 

 the type of a family, a conclusion which Gervais^ did not accept. 

 Wood^ says he never saAV any specimens of the famih^, and gives 

 the characters assigned by Newport. 



The first species described was by Gervais in 1839, from speci- 

 mens found in the environs of Paris. This species was made the 

 type of the genus. In his description he disagrees with Menge in 

 the distribution of the legs. This ma}' however be on account of 

 the difference of the species. 



Order SYMPHYLA. 

 Amer. Nat. XIV, p. 375-6. 

 Head, antennre and mouth parts thysanuriform. Trachea as 

 tubular arches without spiral filament. Spiracles within the bases 

 of the legs. An orifice on the ventral side of the bod}' opening on 

 the third (young) or fourth (adult) body -segment ; present in some 

 individuals as a pore, in others as a longitudinal cleft, closed by 

 means of an oblong chitinous piece on either side, the two together 

 occupying a subquadrate space. Two Malpighian tubules (four 

 Menge). Legs five-jointed, terminated by a pair of claws. Ven- 

 tral appendages at the bases of each pair of legs except the first. 

 Caudal stylets containing spinning glands which open at their 

 tips. Ovary lying dorsad of the rectum (Menge). 



Family SCOLOPENDRELLIDJE. 



Newp. Transac Linn. Society, XIX, p. 374. 

 SCOLOPENDRELLA Gerv. 

 Comptes Eendns, 1839. 



S. notacantha Gerv. Apteres, IV, 301, PI. 39, fig.- 7 ; Ann. Sei. Nat., Zool. II, 1844, 



p. 70, PI. 5, figs. 15-17; Ryder, Am. Nat., p. 375, 1880. Hab. France and ? Pa. 



and Md. 

 S. immaculata Newport. Trans. Linn. Soe. XIX, pp. 373-374, PI. XL, figs'. 4, 4a, 



b, c; Menge, Neuste Schr. d. naturf. Gesell. Danzig, IV, 1861, Pis. 2, Hab. 



England and Germany. 



^ Apteres. Suite a Buflfon, Walckenaer et Gervais, t. IV, p. 301-308. 

 Paris, 1847. 



- Monogr. North American Myriap., Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, XIII. New 

 Series, 1869. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



85 



S. americana Packard. 

 Hab. Salem, Mass. 

 S. gratiae Ryder. Am. Nat.. XIV, p. 



Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., XVI, p. Ill, 1873. Name only. 



Fia 



-S. gratia. 



75, 1880. Name only. 



This species (Figure 1.), may be distin- 

 guished from S. immnculata by the presence 

 of a pair of stout hairs which diverge outwards 

 from the sides of the body at each segment. 

 Head wider than bod}^, not cordate but sub- 

 pentagonal from above. A single pair of eyes 

 on the sides of the head behind the antennae, 

 not visible from above. AntenniB twent^^-one- 

 articulate. Length 2 to 2-5 mm. Habitats: 

 Fairmonnt Park, Philada ; Havre de Grace, 

 Md. ; Washington, D. C; Franklin Co., Pa. 

 Under stones, sticks and in damp mould. 



I dedicate this handsome species to my 



sister. 



S. microcolpa Muhr. Zoolog. An- 

 zeiger, IV, 1881, pp. 59-61, 

 figs. 1, 2 and 4. 



Enlarged 25 times. 



Is near S. notacantha, 

 but is said to have no ventral appendages at 

 the bases of the legs. I would remark, how- 

 ever, that in the specimens thought to be nota- 

 cantha, I find these appendages present, but 

 they are extremely small and maj' easily be 

 overlooked. Muhr's paper is a valuable con- 

 tribution however to the anatomy of the mouth 

 parts of a form near the species first described. 

 Habitat, Prague, Bohemia. 



Figure 2, representing an American, speci- 

 men of the same, or nearly the same, as S. 

 notacamha, has a veiy suggestive resemblance 

 to Japijx in the shape of the body; whether 

 this is more than a resemblance I forbear 

 to suggest. Xo doubt now remains in my 

 mind that dissimilar as LejAsma, Machilis, 

 Lepismina, Nicoletia, Gampodea and Japyx 

 at first appear upon comparison with each 

 other, their principal characters suggest in 



Fig. 2. — S. notacantlia. 

 Enlarged 25 times. 




80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the most forcible manner, an affiliation with Scolopendrella. 

 This is most strongly indicated in the mouth parts, legs, varia- 

 bility in the nuHiber of antcnnal joints and habits of life in all of 

 which Scolopendrella exhibits the strongest resemblances to the 

 Thysanura^ with very marked affinities to the Myriapods as well. 

 The position of the ovary is that in Geophilus, hut spinning organs 

 are also characteristic of the male Geophilus and Polydesmus ; a 

 female specimen of the latter, while being kept in confinement, 

 spun a web about its eggs in a jar in which I had confined it. I 

 never noticed that any American female Geojjhilas spun webs 

 about their nests, though I have frequently encountered masses 

 of their beautiful amethystine-colored eggs, over which they kept 

 faithful watch. 



Whether the proposed order Symphyla is sufficiently well 

 characterized may be a matter of doubt ; this can only be decided 

 by a more elaborate investigation of its anatomy, which the writer 

 hopes to be able to carry out at no distant day. 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia, 8y 



March 22. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 

 The death of Jos. A. Cla}-, a member, was announced. 



March 29. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



April 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirteen persons present. 



The deaths of John Gould, of London, a correspondent, and of 

 Thos. W. Starr, a member, were announced. 



April 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twent^'-four persons present. 



The death of Col. T. M. Br3'an, of Yincenttown, X. J., a cor- 

 respondent, was announced. 



April 19. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



A paper entitled " Observations on Planorbis," by R. E. C. 

 Stearns, was presented for publication. 



On the Variations of Acmsea j^elfd^ Escholtz. — Mr. Tryon read 

 a portion of a letter from Mr. Henry Hemphill, of Oakland, Cali- 

 fornia, referring to certain specimens of Acmaea, collected b}' him. 

 and presented to the Academy this evening. 



" I will now call your attention to Xos. 457, 458, 459 and 460. I 

 have made two trips to Monterey, Cal., this winter. During mv 




88 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



first visit I collected a few specimens of Acmvea pelta and its vars., 

 and when I returned home and began to clean the specimens I was 

 ver^' much puzzled over some specimens of No. 458. SeA'eral 

 years ago I had collected shells of No. 459 at Monterey-, which at 

 that time I called Nacelki im^tabilis^ but these half and half varie- 

 ties did not appear at that time. After a little reflection on the 

 matter, I began to suspect the true condition of the subject and 

 became so much interested in it, that I concluded to go to Mon- 

 terey again and try to work it up, and I think I have done so. It 

 is simply a question of station. 



" When the 3'Oung of A. pel I a stations itself on the kelp {Fhyl- 

 lospora 3Ienziesii^ ^g-\ it assumes the aspect of Nacella, and as 

 long as it remains on the kelp it does not change its color in the 

 least, and only varies its form to suit the shape of the stems of 

 the kelp to which it attaches itself. But when from an}^ cause it 

 leaves the kelp and takes to the rocks, it seems to begin imme- 

 diately to -paint np and ornament itself after tlie fashion of the 

 specimens I have sent yon. 



" When it remains on the kelp a long time and completes its 

 growth, we then have Nacella instabilis, and if living in an exposed 

 position its apex becomes worn, the sculpture faint, etc. When 

 the 3'oung station themselves on the rocks they do not assume the 

 Nacella aspect at all, but commence immediately to adorn them- 

 selves in gay and beautiful eoloi'S as you will see by the fine series 

 of No. 457. Now for the facts and reasons why 1 came to this 

 conclusion. I collected about 200 living specimens on the kelp 

 in all stages of growth, and out of the 200 I found but two speci- 

 mens that varied their color at all ; one was a very young and 

 small s[)ecimen, with a few light dots on or near the apex, and the 

 other was a large specimen with a tesselateil border on the inside, 

 I also collected about 200 on the rocks, and ever}^ one was more 

 or less variegated with eitlier the square dots or alternate rays of 

 white and black, while those that had evidently been on the kelp 

 had their tesselated borders well advanced. We must also take 

 into consideration the fact that Monterey is the most southern 

 point at wliich Nacella instabilis has been found, and it is quoted 

 by Dnll as rare there. The water of the bay where these half and 

 half No. 458 are found, and also others, is comparatively smooth 

 to Avhat it is on the outside where the typical Nacella is found, 

 which will account for the preservation of the apex and sculpture 

 and may have something to do with the form, and undoubtedly is 

 the cause why it is rare at Monterey. 



"To show the effe.ct of station, with probably other causes, I 

 send you a full series of a very pretty var. of A. pelta from Olym- 

 pia, Puget Sound, W. T., 461 to 46'(i inclusive, that I collected 

 last summer. Station, on Mytilus edulis. 



" This very pretty var has almost the exact form and looks like 

 a hnge Nacella p)eltoideii^ Dall, and is a very interesting addition 

 to our lim[>ets." 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 89 



April 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in tlie chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



A paper entitled " List of Fishes collected by Mr. W. J. 

 Fisher, npon the coasts of Lower California, 1816-77, with 

 descriptions of new species," hy W. X. Lockington, was presented 

 for publication. 



The death of Dr. J. Dickinson Logan, a member, was announced. 



Motility in Plants. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that com- 

 paratively little knowledge of motion had been gained since the 

 time of Linnteus. The recent work of Mr. Darwin on the motions 

 of plants, was a A'aluable contribution to the subject, though con- 

 fined to motion in roots and leaves. He thought it would serve 

 the cause of science to note that the presence or absence of light 

 in itself could not, as so often assumed, account for all the phe- 

 nomena of motion. He had made numerous and careful observa- 

 tions, this season, on motility in Draha verna^ which plant, so far 

 as he knew, had not been observed to have an}' peculiarities. The 

 petals are usually closed during the early season, though the pedi- 

 cels are erect in the daytime, di'ooping so as to form almost a 

 perfect circle at night. These pedicels become erect about three 

 hours after sunrise when there is about twelve hours of sun in the 

 day, commencing to droop at about two o'clock in the afternoon.' 

 This diurnal motion in the pedicels continues some da^'s after the 

 petals have fallen, and apparentl}^ as long as the silicic continues 

 to grow. Later in the season, on clear days, the petals com- 

 mence to open early in the morning, contemporaneoush' with the 

 rising of the pedicel ; by the time this was erect, the petals Avould 

 be nearlj' expanded. The expansion, when the sun rose at half- 

 past five or six, would be complete by nine A. M. Strange to say, 

 no matter how clearlj^ the sun might continue to shine, the petals 

 commence to close about noon, and b}' about two P. M,, are com- 

 pleteh' closed. 



During the course of his observations, there was a period of 

 four da3's cloudy, and no attempt at expansion was made. The 

 fourth day, however, was so slightly cloud^^, that the eye could 

 scarcely look at the sun through the thin cloudj^ veil, The amount 

 of absolute light could be little less than on some days earlier in 

 the season, when the sun was wholly unclouded, but still there 

 was no attempt at expansion of the petals. Continued observa- 

 tions seemed to show that not mere light, but clear sunlight, was 

 necessarj' to the opening of the flower. 



One evening there was a heavy thunder shower ; the next da}- 

 7 



i 




90 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



was densely cloudy, warm and moist, but the flowers of the Draha 

 expanded just as well as under the bright sun of previous days ! 

 These facts show that we cannot refer the opening of the flowers 

 either to light or sunlight alone. Mr. Meehan believed that plants 

 not onl^^ behaved differently at different times, but in different 

 countries; and as no one, not even Mr. Darwin, seems to have 

 noted the expansion of the petals of the Draba in England, it is 

 possible that under those cloudy skies, they do not expand at all. 

 So far as he had noted here, the self-fertilized flowers of the 

 closed Drabas produced seed just as well as the expanded ones, 

 which might possibly be occasionally cross-fertilized by the small 

 sand wasps, which visited the open flowers freely for pollen. 



How habits change at times, Mr. Meehan illustrated \)\ speci- 

 mens of Lamium aviplexicanle^ a common introduced weed in 

 gardens. Dr. Bromfleld, in his Flora of the Isle of Wight, 

 notices that the flowers vary in size during the season, but that 

 the earliest ones are the largest. Here it is reversed. The speci- 

 mens exhibited had already flowered from six verticels, and had 

 mature seeds in many, but the flowers had never expanded in any 

 case. Indeed, very rarely had the closed corollas been produced 

 beyond the calyx. They were essentially cleistogene. As showing 

 how unceriain were the laws influencing this condition, when usu- 

 ally about the end of April, the perfect flowers appeared, some 

 plants would have them a week or more before others alongside 

 produced any. To all appearances, external influences were the 

 same. 



As somewhat bearing on the laws of motion, the angle of diver- 

 gence, in branches was referred to. Mr. M. exhibited branches of 

 tSaJix capi^ea. Normally the branches separated from each other 

 at a very acute angle, but the fertile anient on these branches was 

 pendulous. Under no external influence, so far as we could tell, 

 an individual appears with pendulous branches. This has been 

 increased by grafting, and is known in nurseries as the Kilmarnock 

 weeping willow. But the aments have retained their normal con- 

 dition as regards the bi'anch. The catkins are erect on the pen- 

 dulous branches, while pendulous on the erect ones. Morpho- 

 logically a catkin is but a modifled — an arrested — branch, but we 

 see by this that whatever cause induced the change from the 

 normal condition of divergence, it v/as purely local, and ceased to 

 exist before it reached the arrested branch or ament. 



These facts were offered to show that in studj^ing motility in 

 the vai-ious parts of plants, it would be well to remember that ex- 

 ternal causes had but a limited influence, and that in these cases 

 a combination of circumstances often controlled the influences at- 

 tributed to one. As, therefore, the f;icts would vary with various 

 observations, —those of one observer sometimes seeming rather to 

 conflict with than to confirm another, — it was too soon to form 

 any just conclusion as to the motive cause. What was desired 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 91 



was not so much these speculations, but an increase in the number 

 of observers, and a correct record of well authenticated facts. 



The resignation of Dr. Henry C. Chapman, as a member of the 

 Council was read and accepted. 



Jesse S. Walton and Harrj^ Skinner were elected members. 

 The following Avas ordered to be published : 




92 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



OBSERVATIONS ON PLANORBIS. 

 BY ROBERT E. C. STEARNS. 



I. Are the Shells of Planorbis Dextral or Sinistral ? 



Incidental to an investigation into the relations of certain fresh- 

 water snails, upon looking through the books, I find that authori- 

 ties differ on the point, whether the shells of Planorbis are dextral 

 or sinistral. 



While Say,^ Swainsou,^ G. B. Sowerby, Jr.^ and Reeve ^ regard 

 them as sinistral, or reversed, and properly figure the shells, in 

 their works, in a sinistral position, and not " upside down," as in 

 many of the books, Macgillivray^ says ''the shell is dextral, as 

 several observers have proved; not sinistral, as many have 

 alleged;" and Woodward," H. and A. Adams,'' W. G. Binney'^ and 

 others also describe it or refer to it as being dextral. 



Dall remarks in a foot-note to his paper " On the Genus Pom- 

 pholyx and its Allies,"^ " if we consider the shells of this group 

 as dextral, they oflfer the peculiarity of having the genitalia as in 

 most sinistral shells ; Pompholyx presents the same conditions 

 and is certainly dextral." Dr. Philip P. Carpenter, referring to 

 Planorbis^ says, " it lives in a reversed position."^'' 



It will be observed from the above that eminent writers are 

 divided, and that we have substantial authority on both sides of 

 the question. 



My own observations thus far prove the shells to be generally 

 sinistral,^^ but as I have examined but comparativel}' few of the 

 whole number of species, it may be that the shells in some species 

 are dextral, and in other species sinistral. 



1 Say ex Binney, L. and F. W. Shells of N. A,, Part II, p. 103. 



- Treatise on Malacology, p. 337. 



^ Conchological Manual, p. 245. 



* Conchologia Systematica, PI. CXC. 



^ Molluscous Animals of Scotland, p. 114. 



" Manual of MoUusca, second ed., p. 302. 



^ Genera of Recent Mollusca, Vol. II, p. 260. 



'^ Smithsonian Miss. Pub. No. 143, p. 103. 



a Annals of Lyceum of Nat. History of N. Y., Vol. IX, March, 1870. 

 '0 Lectures on Mollusca, S. I. Report, 1860. 



" The figures of Say's larger species in Gould's luvertebrata of Mass., 

 first ed., are most excellent. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. D3 



G. B. Sowerbj' , Jr., in comparing Planorbis with certain Am- 

 pullariffi {Marisa)^ says: " It is further to be remarked that the 

 discoidal Ampulhirife are dextral shells, and the Planorbes are 

 sinistral or reversed ; and although the latter are sometimes so flat 

 and orbicular that it is difficult to know which is the spiral side, 

 it may nevertheless always be ascertained b}' a careful examina- 

 tion. "i 



"While the anatomy of Planorhiii in its principal characters, is 

 presumed to be sinistral, and indicates, with the sum of other 

 characters (including habitat), a most intimate relationship to 

 P/njsa, which has, as is well known, a sinistral shell, yet some of 

 the authors who affirm the sinistral character of the soft parts or 

 body, say also, that the species of this genus {Planorbis)^ have a 

 dextral sliell, an inclusive and broad statement which applies to 

 all of the species, and apparently repeat this tradition, or else 

 assume that it is so, because the great majorit}' of gasteropodous 

 moUusks which have shells at all, have dextral shells, the excep- 

 tions being comparativeh' few. 



If we consider what are regarded as apical characters in forms 

 about which there is no question, and it is permitted to reason, 

 from analogy in this connection, it will be seen that some species 

 of Planorbis have sinistral shells, and I submit as examples 

 sustaining this position, the larger West American forms known as 

 P. amnion, (fig. 1) Gould (+ P. Traskii, Lea,), P. trivolvis, (fig. 2) 

 Say 2 ( 4- P. var. occidentalism Cp. MSS.), P. lumens^ Cpr., P. 

 subcrenafus, (figs. 3-3a) Cpr.^, P.corpulentus^ (figs. 4-4a) Say, and 

 P. tumidus, Pfr., from Nicaragua, also P. corneas. L., Britain, as 

 shown in authentic specimens received from an experienced and 



^ Concliological Manual, p. 345. 



- Pacific Coast specimens. 



^ This species more nearly resembles P. corneus, than does any other 

 American form. Many of the smaller so-called species (A.mevican) are 

 exceedingly close to the smaller forms of Europe, and it is not unlikely a 

 careful investigation would place some of them under the names previously 

 made by the earlier authors. Mr. W. G. Binney writes of Physa hypnorum, 

 "it is one of the species common to the three continents ;" and of Limmca, 

 he says, " It seems certain that the boreal regions are inhabited by several 

 species common to similar latitudes in A.sia and Europe, such as L. stag- 

 nalis and L. palmtris.^^ This remark will ultimately be found to apply 

 with equal truth to species of Planorbis. 



I 




94 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



trustworthy correspondent near London. This latter is the only 

 large European species, I am familiar with. 



While it is neither proven nor asserted herein, that all species 

 of Planorbis liave sinistral shells, neither is it known that the 

 anatomy of all the species is sinistral. 



The relations of Planorbis to Limnsea are not so remote as to 

 make it altogether unwarrantable to look for a divergence in that 

 direction. 



The extreme variableness of Planorbis has undoubtedly led to 

 the making of too many species ; specimens which are conceded 



Fig. 1 



Fig. 3(7. 



P. trivolvis. Say. 



P. suhcrenatus, Cpr. 



Fig. 4. 



Fig. 4a. 



P. ammon, Gld. 



P. subcrenatus, Cpr. 



P. corpulentus, Say. 



to be of the same species, from difierent though adjacent ponds, 

 etc., vary more or less, and this is particularly the case with "West 

 American forms which are in various degrees affected by the 

 character of the water, temperature, etc. While it is quite certain 

 that the specific names herein given would be reduced b}' a careful 

 and philosophical comparison, at this time I can onl^^ refer to 

 them as they now stand in the books ; I may mention P. tumens 

 from near Petaluma as a dwarfed variety of P. corpulentus ; varie- 

 ties of the latter are frequently confused with P. ammon. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



95 



It may here be remarked that Macgillivra}^, an enthusiastic 

 observer, Avho has described some of the. British species with 

 great fidelity, lays much stress on the shape of the mouth, com- 

 paring it with those of Helix and Zonites, as conclusive of the 

 dexti-al character of the shells in Planorhis} 



If analogies in form of mouth are worthy of consideration, 

 though this point may not have much weight without otlier and 

 corroborative evidence, we have in this character a stronger argu- 

 ment the other way, b}-, more propeiiy a comparison between 

 nearer related forms like Physa (that is the more globose species), 

 and most of the forms of Planorhia I have given, holding the latter 

 in a normal sinistral position, when the tendency to the ph^^soid 

 moutli, tlie ovate shape and sag of the aperture will be readily 

 noticed. 



Frequently, immature, half-grown, and less than half-grown 

 shells of Planorhis have been brought to me by collectors who 

 were quite confident they had made new discoveries, and it is not 

 improbable that j'oung shells as above have been described and 

 published as new species of Physa. 

 Fig. 6. 



Fig. 5. 



Fig. 7. 



Ameria scalaris, Jay. Physa globosa, Physa hiimerosa, Gld. 

 Hald. 



Fig. 8, 



Fig. 9. 



Physa ancillaria, Say. 



Physa ampullacca, Gld. 



I would further 

 suggest a compari- 

 son of the apertures 

 of our larger Cali- 

 fornian (adult) 

 shells of Planorhis^ 

 held in a sinistral 

 position with Ame- 

 ria scalaris (fig. 5)^ 

 (= Paludina sca- 

 laris, Jay), a curious 

 Florida form ; Phy- 

 sella globosa (fig. 6), 

 Hald., a Tennessee 



^ It is presumable that the shells of Planorhis, by which Macgillivray 

 was impressed and which were the most familiar to him, were the small 

 species of his own country, which are flat, symmetrically coiled, regular in 

 form, and gradual in growth, being in striking contrast with the sturdier, 

 ventricose West American forms I have cited— which also more conspic- 

 uously exhibit sinistral characters. 



- Dall says : "A careful examination of a number of specimens of this 

 singular form, shows that it is distinct, and not a young Planorhis, as has 




96 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



species; also with other species of PJiysa, like P. hvmerom 

 (fig. 7), P. ancillaria (fig. 8), P. ampullacea (fig. 9', etc., ct sic de 

 similihus. 



We shall, however, find more satisfactory testimony on the 

 sinistral point by analyzing the apical characters. 



If, as in other shells, we consider that to be the upper end or 

 spire in which we can follow tlie volutions through the entire shell 

 from tip or nucleus to the ultimate or basal whorl and mouth — 

 then it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that some species of 

 Planorbis have sinistral shells. In some of the smaller forms, 

 like P. vortex^ P. conforfus^ P. glaber, P. carinatus^ and P. spir- 

 orbis, all of which are British species, and in which the whorls 

 are (in comparison with larger American forms) quite evenly 

 coiled and in which also, the increase in size of whorl is quite 

 gradual, the difference between the two sides of the shell, apical 

 and umbilical, is not as readily perceived. The largest British 

 species, P. corneus, confirms my view, being sinistral. The rapid 

 enlargement of the whorls in some of the West American species 

 is in marked contrast with even the shells of P. corneus of the 

 same diameter ; the height of the latter as compared to P. corjni- 

 lentus being as -31 to "54, while the length of the aperture is in 

 still greater contrast, being as -42 to -YG. These measurements 

 were made from average-sized perfect specimens of both species 

 placed apex up, with the mouth to the left, 



It is easy to perceive that in those forms where the ratio of 

 increase is great as between the last whorl and the preceding Arolu- 

 tion and so on, whorl compared with whorl, through the whole, as 

 for instance in P. ammon^ that the depression of both spire and 

 umbilicus is most marked ; but nevertheless the umbilicus is the 

 more profound as may easily be proved by counting the volutions 

 first on one side, and then on the other. 



Again, if additional proof is wanted, take any one of the larger 

 forms^ of the species herein named, and carefully, by degrees, burn 

 off the under side (which can easily be done, by pouring a little 



been suspected.— ^rt«-rt7s N. T. Lyceum Nat. Hist., Vol. IX, p. 35G ; foot- 

 note. 



1 As distorted individuals, with the volutions exceedingly irregular, are 

 of frequent occurrence, in making the test suggested, such monstrosities 

 should be rejected, as they would as often unduly favor one side of the 

 question as the other. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 97 



acid in a saucer or watch-glass), until the shell is eaten off to a 

 line which obliterates the umbilicus, when the nucleus of the spire, 

 the tip, and half a whorl to a whorl and a-half will be found re- 

 maining. 



Those who insist on the dextral character of the shells in 

 Planorhis, unless the}' except the species I have named, are thus 

 compelled to demonstrate how in the sequence of growth the 

 umbilicus can precede the nucleus. 



Though specimens of the forms under discussion, in various 

 embryonic stages, have frequently excited my attention, j-et the 

 material, so far as adolescence is connected with the present line 

 of inquiiy, was at the moment, unfortvinatel}^, inaccessible. I 

 have therefore been compelled, in order to present such structural 

 features of the shells as are related to the direction (right or left) 

 of the volutions, the form of the aperture, etc., to use adult speci- 

 mens, and by breaking back, piece by piece, and whorl after 

 whorl, towards the nucleus, until the larger whorls are sufflcientl}^ 

 removed, so that the apex or spire ceases to be either concave or 

 depressed, and is simply flat. It would be almost, if not quite 

 impossible to do this with the smaller species, owing to their 

 diminutive size and exceeding fragility, and difficult to obtain the 

 necessar}^ sections for illustration herein, by the use of acid. 



The figures (10) are drawn from specimens of Planorhis coiyu- 

 lentus collected in Oregon, also in Clear Lake, 

 Fig. 10. California, by that indefatigable collector, Mr. 



C. D. Yoy. Before manipulation they measured 

 as follows : 

 Plan, corpuientus- Largest diameter, . . -94 inch. 



nuclear whorls. Height. . . . • . "38 inch. 



Number of whorls, four and a-half, 



which were broken back to one and a-half whorls, with a diameter 

 of "10 inch. ; height -15 inch. The umbilicus in one instance was 

 still discernible — in the others, destroj^ed. This species is widely 

 distributed and occupies an extensive geographical area, on the 

 western side of the continent, from the Columbia River in the 

 north ; easterly to Lake Winnipeg ; and southerly to Cape St. 

 Lucas. ^ Binney says, " F. corpulentus is catalogued from Guate- 

 mala b}^ Mr. Tristram," 



^ Prof. Geo. Davidson collected specimens at this place. 




98 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



Fig. 11. 



Plan, tumidus—nnoleixr whorls. 



P. Traskii, Lea, whicli Mr. Binney makes a synonym of P. 

 ammon, belongs to the western corpulentus form. 



While the forcooing figures (10) show the shells of one species 

 reduced to one and a-half whorls, the following figures exhibit the 

 form of Planorhis tumidus, Pfr., which measured in 



Largest diameter, . . . . '68 inch, 

 with five whorls, reduced by breaking down to two and a-half 

 whorls and a diameter of '16 inch. 



This last is a more southern 

 species ;. numerous specimens were 

 collected by the late Thos. Bridges, 

 who found them abundant in ele- 

 vated pools, small lakes, etc., amid 

 the forest slopes of Mombacho, in 

 Nicaragua. It closely resembles 

 more northern forms and should 

 hardly be called a species. 



It will be observed in the figures 

 (10) that we have in the embryonic shells of Planorhis corpulentus 

 a near approach to Physa, a, close resemblance to a Physa with a 

 flattened spire ; suggesting such physoid forms as P. humerosa, 

 while the adolescent stage of Planorhis tumidus (at half its adult 

 size) also suggests an umbilicated Physa with a flattened spire, 

 somewhat like (N. W. American) Physa Lordi (fig. 12), with the 



spire cut off, and an umbilicus 

 punched in, back of the mouth. 



The first figures (10) explain 

 De Kay's " Physa jAanorbula " 

 (fig. 13), and also suggestively 

 point towards Ameria scalaris. 

 These figures also exhibit the phj'soid mouth, and 

 show that there is neither necessity nor propriety 

 ysa or i. .^ leaving closely related forms for more distant, 

 analogies. In this connection it should also be kept in mind that 

 certain species of Physa, included in Ehrenberg's subgenus 

 Isido7'a, are more or less umbilicated. Of the smaller species of 

 Planorhis which have passed under ray examination, I have seldom 

 found it difficult to determine the sinistral characters b}^ a com- 

 parison of the two sides of the shell. 



If we could unroll a specimen of, say, Planorhis sjnrorhis, and 



Fig. 13. 



Physa 2)lanorbula. 




1881.J 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



99 



then straighten it out, it woukl resemble, in minatiire, an acutely 

 elongated conical tube, in a general way like the following 

 figure : 



Fig. 14. 



X 



-^^ &s^ ' — - — N 



Fig. 



of which N represents the nucleus, A the aperture or mouth, and 

 ML a median line. Xow it will readil}^ be seen that such a tube, 

 if simply wound up, or made into a flat coil, and during the pro- 

 cess of winding, kept horizontalh^ and laterally in 

 plane with the central or median line which divides 

 the tube into equal parts, would, in an exceedingly 

 small shell, make it somewhat difficult to determine 

 which was the apical or the umbilical (that is the 

 upper or under) side of the shell, as the nucleus 

 and nuclear whorls in such a case would be equall}' 

 as perceptible on one side of the shell as on the 

 other, and the concavit}^ or depression of both 

 sides would be the same, bejng equal to one-half 

 of the diameter of the tube as seen at X. 



The Californiau species to which I have re- 

 ferred, instead o,f being represented b}^ an attenu- 

 ated tube like the preceding figure, which very 

 slowly increases in circumference from nucleus to 

 aperture, would if unwound, give us a more robust 

 form, a more rapidly enlarging, conical tube, like 

 this (fig. 15) : 



X being the nucleus, A the aperture, and ML 

 the median line. 



It will be seen that if this tube, commencing at 

 X the nucleus, was evenly coiled upon the median 

 line, the nucleus as in the first instance, though 

 very much more depressed, owing to the greater 

 diameter of the tube as seen at X, could be equally- 

 well seen on the two sides, the umbilical and apical 

 depressions being the same. 



When the line of coil is other than median, and 

 the greater portion of the tube or shell is below the 

 line of coil, as is the case with the species I find to 

 be sinistral, then of course the umbilicus is the more and the 




100 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



apex the less depressed, and therefore the latter is more easily 

 discerned. Another point too important to be overlooked, is the 

 form of the tube as exliibited in a transverse or cross section ; 

 whether circular, semilunar, or horizontally or perpendicularly 

 ovate. 



Some of the larger species have tubes, which, in cross section, 

 are of the latter shape, hence the physoid aspect of the aper- 

 ture both in adult and embryonic specimens. 



Since the foregoing was written, the shells which appear in the 

 list appended hereto as from Lake Simcoe, came to hand. The 

 lot embraced three species of Planorhis. Several specimens (of 

 rather small size) of P. trivolvis, are of the western P. corpu- 

 lentus character, and sinistral. Twenty-five specimens of P. 

 campanulatus, Say, are also sinistral as described by that author, 

 and three specimens of P. bicarinatus are dextral, though des- 

 cribed as sinistral b}' Say. Of the smaller American species 

 glanced at by me in the course of investigation, I find P. vermic- 

 ularis^ from Utah Lake, U. T., is sometimes dextral. 



From what is presented above it will, I think, be admitted that 

 some species of Planorbes have shells whose structure is in har- 

 mony with the sinistral characters of the anatomy, as might 

 reasonably be presumed, and it is not unlikely that such will 

 prove to be the rule and not the exception, when an extended and 

 critical examination of the whole group has been made. 



I do not propose, at this time, to inquire into the origin of the 

 related forms referred to in this paper ; but the suggestions, which 

 have incidentally occurred in, or grown out of the consideration of 

 the simpler points discussed, impress me as inviting investigation. 



The following species of Planorhis from the localities stated, 

 have been especially examined in connection herewith. 



* P. trivolois, Erie Canal, N. Y. 



* " Tinker's Creek, Lake Co., Willoughby, O 



* _ " Foot's Pond, Woodburn, near Cincinnati 



Ohio, 



* " Lake Winnebago, Wisconsin. 



* " Wabash River, Posey Co., Indiana. 



* '' Covington, Kentucky, 

 f " Washoe Lake, Nevada. 



Note. — I am indebted to the courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution 

 for all of the figures herein, except 10, 11, 14 and 15, which are original. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



101 



Near Salt Lake, Utah T. 

 Utah Lake, U. T. 



Carthage, Ohio. 

 Cumbeiland Co., Tennessee. 



Cumberland Co., Tennessee. 



Tuolumne Meadows, Tuolumne Co., Cal. 



Indian River, Texas. 



Bexar County, Texas. 



Miami, Florida. 



Lake Simcoe, Canada. 



Near Portland, Oregon. 



Lake Simcoe, Canada. 

 Traskii, Clear Lake, Lake Co. Cal. 



" Oregon, Mus. Stearns. 

 Cp. Russian River, near Ukiah, Cal. 



King's River, Cal. 



Mountain Lake, near San Francisco, Cal. 



Santa Cruz, Cal. 



Los Angeles, Cal, 



Nicaragua. 



East Tennessee. 



Erie Canal, N. Y. 



McHenry County, Ills, 



Portland, Oregon. 



Lake Simcoe, Canada. 



Clear Lakes of Indian River, Florida. 



Orono, Maine. 



Henry County, Ills. 



Salinas River, Cal. 



Great Britain, many localities. 



The note marks above refer to the following parties from whom 

 the material examined was received : * Prof. A. G. Wetherbj' ; 

 t C. D. Voj ; t Henry Hemphill ; ft -^- ^'- Crawford ; § Dr. 

 Edward Palmer; %% the late Thomas Bridges; || 0. Button ; ^ the 

 late W. W. Walpole, Esq., from all of whom I have received most 

 generous assistance. 



As to the validity of the species, or determinations as above, it 

 is not necessarj' to discuss the matter in this paper, as it is not 

 pertinent to the objective point, but as may naturally be supposed 

 b}' any one who has had occasion to examine into the literature 

 relating to the group, and to make a critical comparison of mate- 




102 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



rial, I have found much that is unsatisfactory, and it is not 

 asserting too much to say, that too many species have been made, 

 and that a careful revision is required ; and in this connection, 

 which shows the well-known variability of the group, I may men- 

 tion the examination of a parcel of specimens from a single " pond 

 back of Covington, Kentucky," kindly furnished by Professor 

 Wetherby, which admits of a separation resulting in three species 

 and a remainder which readily connects all three ; for this reason 

 I do not claim that the determinations as given are always con- 

 sistent, though carefully considered ; as before remarked, how- 

 ever, the point I have endeavored to present is not affected 

 thereby. 



II. On certain Aspects of Variation in American Planorbes. 



In the course of the preceding inquiry various aspects of varia- 

 tion, as exhibited in the material under examination were con- 

 stantly recurring. 



Without presuming to explain such phenomena, which would 

 quite likely be a difficult matter, even if all the peculiarities of 

 environment in each case, or of each lot of shells examined, were 

 known, and without such data, quite hypothetical, yet a few notes 

 and comments suggested by the forms referred to, may be worth 

 a passing notice. 



The larger so-called species of Planorbis may for convenience 

 in discussion be grouped as follows : 



First. Those in which the whorls are rounded ; that is to say 

 Figs. 16 and 17. if the tube or cone, as represented in the pre- 



ceding paper, was cut trans versel}^, the section 

 would show a rounded (not round) outline. 

 Examples— The typical P. corneus, L.,^ of 

 Europe; P. Guadaloupensis, Shj.f P. suh- 

 crenatus (figs. 16, It), Cpr.,^ and P. tumidus, 

 Pfr.,'* of Nicaragua, a quite persistent form, 

 not, however, quite as rounded as the others. 

 Second. Those in which the whorls are 

 either planulate, angulated, carinated or sub- 

 ^pTsubaenatus Cpr! carinatcd, which includes most of the larger 



1 Woodward's Manual, PI. XII, fig. 34 ; Sby.'s Manual, PI. XIV, fig. 

 311 ; Keeve, Conch. System., PI. CXC, fig. 1. 

 ■' Ibid, fig. 2. 

 ■' Binney, L. and F. W. Shells, N. A., Part II, figs. 176, 178. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



103 



Xorth American species 



riGS. 18 and V.>. 



Examples — P. corpidentus (figs. 18, 19), 

 Saj^,' P.Traskii^ Lea., P, occiden- 

 talism Cp., and P. hicarinatus 

 (fig. 20), Sa3\ In these the tube, 

 if cut transversely, would present 

 an outline more or less angulated. 

 Forms like P. trivolvis (fig. 21), 

 Say, connect the two groups ; for 

 while in some inst'^nees this 

 species exhibits the rounded 

 whorls of the first, it imperceptibh" differenti- 

 ates from the above to obtuse angulation, and 

 p. corpuientus, Say. ^^^^^^q to the subcarinate forms of the second 



bicarinatiLS, 

 Say. 



jronp, 

 P. amnion (fig 



Fig. 21. 



Fig. 22. 



P. irivolvis. Say. 



22), Gould, must be mentioned here, as it illus- 

 trates another aspect of 



variation, that of a more 



rapid enlargement of the 



whorls, the result of a more 



obtuse cone than in tri- 



volvis; this, when flattened 



above or angulated, gives 



us the form P, Traskii, the 



most striking of all the 



American Planorbes ; it is 



the extreme or culmination 



of the flattened or planu- 

 lated aspect in the second group of species, 

 of which P. corpidentus is a well known form 

 and more widelj- distributed than the other ; 

 Dr. Cooper's P. occidentalis being an inter- 

 mediate link between t^'pical P. tricoluis and 

 ordinary average specimens of P. corpidentus. 

 Southern specimens of/*, trivolvis seem to 

 be nearer the southern form of P. lentus than 

 do average specimens of these alleged species from northern 

 stations ; and both of the above from soutlierl}- stations approach 

 more closel}- to the European corneus than do northern specimens 

 of the same ; the same mav be said of the Xicarasfuan P. tumidus. 



p. ammon, G-IJ. 



^ Biiiney"s figures, ibid. 




104 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



P. hicarinatus, the cone of which is less robust than that of P. 

 amnion oi' P. Traskii, being in that respect nearer to the typical 

 trivolvis, exhibits the culmination of the carinated or keeled 

 character of the second group, and appears to mark tlie limit in 

 this direction, having reached what may be termed a permanent 

 point. This species is usually quite persistent as to plane of 

 coil ; though in Binney it is reported from a single station as far 

 south as "Northern Georgia" — it seems to prefer northerly 

 regions. 



It is apparently of rare occurrence west of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains. Mr. Hemphill informed me that he detected two or three 

 individuals at Antioch, California, a station peculiar in its enviro- 

 mental characters, being at a point where the Sacramento and 

 San Joaquin Rivers meet and unite the drainage waters of the 

 two great valleys of the same names; mingling in combined 

 volume their fresh water with the salt tidal-water from San Fran- 

 cisco Bay. Other forms are sometimes found at this point ; they 

 seem unable to obtain a foothold or to establish a permanent 

 colony or settlement. The region is one of marshes, which sus- 

 tain a rank growth of coarse vegetation, especially what is known 

 as tales, whicli sift, as it were, the waters, and hold for a time 

 forms which, during the great floods of excessively wet winters, 

 are swept from their native haunts through the submersion or 

 overflow of the ponds, lakes and streams of a vast interior 

 region. 



Thus Mr. Carlton^ found a few juvenile specimens of Carinifex 

 here in May, 1869, which, like Mr. Hemphill's specimens of 

 P. bicarinatus, had never before nor, so far as I can learn, have 

 never since been reported from this place nor any point in the ad- 

 joining region. In fact, the only habitat west of the Rocky Moun- 

 tains, I believe, from which this Planorbis is reported on good 

 authority, is Oregon ; I have specimens from Portland, collected 

 by Mr. Hemphill. 



A frequent aspect of variation in the forms falling within the 

 first gi'oup, is that of occasional bulgings or swellings, as seen in 

 P. glabratus, Say, and P. tuinens, Cpr., suggesting periodicity in 

 growth, or rather periods of hibernation or rest, and periods of 

 activit}', at the termination of which a mouth or expansion of the 



1 Proc. Cal. Acad., Vol. IV, p. 50, 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 105 



aperture, analagous to a varix, is formed — and this repeated as 

 the animal advances towards maturity, imparts to the shell its 

 special feature. It will be readily seen by this, that any of these 

 forms, scattered or distributed over a wide region in northerly or 

 extremely elevated stations, where the season of cold reaches a 

 maximum, against which protection must be sought by hiberna- 

 tion, might in some of their colonies be subjected to such condi- 

 tions, and hibernation be the only protection, as in the land snails 

 of arid regions, against seasons of excessive drought, and in other 

 regions against the cold of winter ; and bulged or varicose varia- 

 tion be produced in a perfectly simple way, that is, in harmony 

 with or through the operation of a general law ; and this variation 

 be perpetuated for some time in colonies migrating from such 

 stations to a more genial habitat ; until after awhile, some of the 

 descendants of these varicose ancestors reach places where hiber- 

 nation is unnecessary by reason of a permanency or mean of con- 

 ditions — temperature, suppl}' and quality of water being in 

 equilibrium with the usual requirements of these animals — and the 

 ordinary smooth, evenly-grown shells again prevail through re- 

 version to the original form. 



To return to the groups, as above, the Covington Pond speci- 

 mens referred to in part first, connect said groups, being what 

 may be called " trivolvis^ with variations " — that species or 

 general form being, through its plasticit}', the connecting link. 



Still another aspect of variation is shown in Ingersoll's ^ P. 

 plexata, from St. Maiy's Lake, Antelope Park, Colorado. Here 

 we have a variation not unusual in the various Planorbes, and 

 not confined to any of the larger species, that of irregularity in 

 winding, as if through extreme torsion the coil cockled ; the 

 whorls twisting off the line or plane of volution. P. plexata is 

 an eccentrically coiled trivolvis, the deviation from plane of volu- 

 tion having somewhat of regularity of occurrence, and not im- 

 probably owing to the same cause as that to which I attribute the 

 bulging in the glabratus form, namel}^ — to recurring seasons of 

 hibernation and activity, when the new growth hardly makes a 

 " good joint " as a mechanic might say, with the edges of the 

 previous mouth ; the heavy water plants at the bottom of the 

 lake described by Mr. Ingersoll, quite likely perform a part, in 

 causing or contributing to the irregular winding of the shell at 



* See Hayden's Reports Teri-itorial Surveys, 1874, p. 402. 




loo PROOKKDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the time when a new growth comniences — when tlie shell which 

 is to be is liardly more tiian plastic membrane, not backed up 

 with a still'ening ol' lime, as it is after the fabric is perfected. 



In Mountain Lake, near San Francisco, a few miles west of 

 said city, curionsly distorted pond snails of the genus Physa 

 occur, which at one time, some years ago, excited attention. The 

 season of their growth is the summer, and its generative warmth 

 is accompanied with the trade winds, which blow across the lake 

 with considerable violence ; the plastic shells of the Ph3'^sa; are 

 forced against plants, chips and various fragments, odds and ends 

 atloat in or around the lake ; and the outer lip thus gets dented 

 and bent, giving a curious twist to many of the individuals. A 

 figure (128) illustrating a distorted specimen from the foregoing 

 locality is given by Mr. Binney in his L. and F. W. Shells of 

 North America. However, I have no reason to believe that this 

 deformit}^ is transmitted, as only a small proportion of the multi- 

 tude are affected. 



The specimens on which Mr. Ingersoll's species is based, were 

 found by him, as stated, in a snow-fed pond of small size, between 

 or among high cliffs. As before implied, the vacillations in plane 

 of coil may be owing to interruption of growth by recurring- 

 periods of hibernation, the characters in the environment, men- 

 tioned by Mr. Ingersoll, affording a reasonable solution of the phe- 

 nomena. Such ponds are subject to marked climatic contingen- 

 cies ; and sometimes, or rather in some years, their basins are 

 nearly pr quite dry — and again, fluctuations of temperature, 

 according to the volume of water, which is an important factor, 

 are far more critical in small ponds than in lakes or large bodies 

 of water, where the extremes of temperature, as well as other 

 conditions, as quality of water, are less variable or extreme. 



These two aspects of variation, bulging and irregularity in 

 coiling are exhibited with more or less frequency in all of the 

 larger American species, and in a greater or less degree, through- 

 out the entire area inhabited by Planorbis ; occurring oftener, 

 perhaps, among colonies which inhabit elevated stations, than 

 with those living at altitudes nearer the level of the sea. I am 

 of the belief, too, that these aspects of variation are less frequent 

 among colonies inhabiting southerly and semi-tropical regions. 



All of the variations referred to are, when present, more con- 

 spicuous in the larger forms west of the Rocky Mountains, for 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. lOY 



the reason that some of them reach a size very much in excess of 

 the largest individuals of the same species, from points east of 

 said range. 



The carinated and planulate forms seem to be freer from the 

 bulging or variceal peculiarity than the others. 



As to the relations of the various species to each other, or their 

 interrelations,, it is quite evident that many of them have an 

 immediate common ancestry. P. trivolvis (+ P- trivolvis var. 

 fallax + P. lentus) of the American species appears to be the 

 dominant stock-form, and maj' be regarded as Americanized 

 Cornells, if a serai-political term may be used in a physico- 

 geographical sense ; its presence in the company of such forms as 

 Limneea stagnalis, L. palustris and others, of circumpolar dis- 

 tribution, indicates a geographical identity with the European 

 species. 



While the Planor.bes attain their maximum of size in that part 

 of North America west of the Rocky Mountains and north of 

 latitude 30° N., the number of supposed species, or of forms 

 which present characters more or less distinct, are more numerous 

 east of said range. 



There is apparently no relation between altitude of habitat and 

 size of shell. The quantity of West-coast material accessible at 

 this moment is too small to enable me to give a satisfactory 

 exhibit of measurements. The following will, however, convey a 

 fair idea of the robust proportions of the more conspicuous West- 

 American forms, the first and second being P. trivolvis and the 

 third P. amnion. 



1. Utah Lake, U. T., elevation 4498'.5 feet. Greater diameter 

 1*41 ; lesser, 1"04 inches. Long, of aperture "71 ; longitudinal 

 diameter of whorl at juncture of parietal callus -45 inch. 



2. Washoe Lake, Nevada, elevation 5006 feet. Greater diameter 

 1-30 ; lesser, 1"01 inches. Long, of aperture '60; long, of whorl at 

 junction of parietal callus •47 inch. 



3. Salinas Yalley, Cal., elevation 100 — feet. Greater diameter 

 1*24; lesser, '98 inch. Long, of aperture "90; long, diameter of 

 whorl at junction of parietal callus '55 inch. 



4. Clear Lake, Cal., elevation 1323 feet. Greater diameter 1-05 ; 

 lesser, -74 inch. Long, of aperture "77 ; long, diameter at junction 

 of parietal callus "76 inch. 



This last (4) is a typical Traskii. A comparison of the meas- 




108 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



FlQ. 23. 



P. trivolvis. Original. 

 Fig 24. 



urements of the aperture and of the whorl at the junction of the 

 parietal callus in this and 3 (P. amnion), with similar measure- 

 ments in 1 and 2 (P. trivolvis), wiW give a good idea of the relative 

 obtuseness of their cones or tubes, as well as of the inflation or 

 patulous aspect of the aperture, and of its effect on the physiog- 

 nomy of the shell. A typical P. corneus (Britisli specimens) of 

 1"10 inches greater diameter measures -87 inch lesser diameter, 

 while the longitude of aperture is '42, and longitudinal diameter 

 at junction of parietal callus is -30 inch. 



The following original figures from nature, show the Washoe Lake 

 form as above (fig. 23); while fig. 24, from 

 the same locality, also illustrates the 

 distortion resulting by deviation from or 

 eccentricity in plane of coil. 



The sinistral or dextral inquiry led to 

 the discovery that P. bicarinatus is some- 

 times right and sometimes left ; this is an 

 interesting fact, because said species ex- 

 hibits certain analogies with other peculiar 

 and characteristic forms. 



The i-elations of the dextral Carinifex, 

 whose planorboid character led Dr. Lea^ 

 p.MuotoM. Original (distorted), ^o describe it as a Planorhis^ are appar- 

 ently closer to P. bicarinatus than to any other species. The 

 exceeding variability of Carinifex is seen by the figures here given, 



which, however, do not fully represent 

 the range of variation. (Figs. 25, 26, 27). 

 In the light of our present knowledge 

 it should perhaps be regarded only as a 

 coincidence that the very territory from 

 which P. bicarinatus is with the two 

 exceptions of Hemphill's Antioch, and 

 Portland (Oregon) localities, entirely 

 absent, is the territory inhabited by 

 Carinifex, and in which it has been 

 found, either recent or fossil. When the 

 immense area of this territory is con- 

 sidered, the number of localities in 

 which it has been detected, are few ; still 



Fig. -26. 



From 



Lea's types. 



Klamath and 



Canoe Ureek 



specimens. 



Fig. 27. 



From 



Lea's types. 



Klamath and 



Canoe Creek 



Specimens. 



Carin^/'eaii^ewfierryt, and varieties, these fcW are SO related the One tO the 



Variety from 

 Pitt River, Cal. 



1 Binney's L. and F. W. Shells of N. A., Part II, p..74. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 109 



other as to indicate a wide and general disti'ibution within its 

 boundaries. These localities are as follows, commencing at the 

 easternmost station : 



1. Utah Territor}" ; near Utah Lake, in Wahsatch Mountains, 

 collected hy Dr. Edward Palmer. Museum Stearns. (Semi- 

 fossil. ) 



2. Nevada (Tertiaries) ; as Vorticifex Tryoni, Meek, in King's 

 Survey. 



3. California ; Owen's Yalley, collected living by Hemphill ; 

 " The most southern locality. The animal undistinguishable 

 externally from that of PJanorhia ammoiV Cooper. 



4. California ; Klamath Lake and Canoe Creek, living ; Dr. J. 

 S. Newberry. S. I. Collection. 



5. California; Pitt River, Dr. Cooper ; living. S. I. Collection. 



6. California; Clear Lake, living; Dr. Yeatch. S. I. Collec- 

 tion. Cooper makes a var. ? ''minor'' of specimens from this 

 place. 



7. California; Antioch ; living. Carlton. '* A few A^ery young 

 ones, perhaps a dwarfed southern variety like those from Clear 

 Lake." 



8. California; Livermore Valley, Alameda County; "in the 

 hills north of Martin's, near Tassajara," Cooper, fossil ; label 

 marked " Planorbis, etc., Tertiary? " in State Geol. Survey Coll., 

 Univ. of Cal. 



The Utah specimens, though small, are mature, and include the 

 form rounded above like Meek's Nevada species, as well as the 

 more flattened and grooved features of the Tassajara ^ specimens, 

 which approach in size and general characters more closely to 

 Lea's type, fig. 25. Some of Palmer's Utah specimens are elevated, 

 and vary in the direction of fig. 27, though not terraced or keeled 

 as much ; the lot of only a dozen specimens, exhibits a remarka- 

 ble range of variation. 



There are striking analogies between the shells of Garinifex 

 in its varieties, and the Australasian brackish water Amphibolse. 



A new species has been made on one of the varieties by Mr. 

 Smith, of the British Museum, which he named C. Ponsonbii;'^ 



^ Tassajara is the name of a stream which is frequently dry in the latter 

 part of summer. 

 '^ Proc. Zool. Soc., 1875, p. 536. Also Quar. .Tour. Conch., Vol. I, p. 150. 




no PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the specimens T\^ere collected by Lord Walsingham, in Cnlifornia. 

 There are several varieties still nndescribed, which challenge the 

 attention of those who are ambitious in this direction. 



Garinifex exhibits manj^ of the variations in form of tube or 

 cone, in cross-section, which are seen in Planorbis, without the 

 bulgings of the varicose forms, and plus the elevation of spire 

 which is seen especiall}^ in extreme individuals like the figure ; 

 the outline of the mouth is very much like that of P. hicarinatus^ 

 and in some of its varieties suggests a P. hicarinatui<, with the 

 umbilicus deepened by pushing up the spire from below. With 

 the discovery of new localities, and ample material both recent 

 and fossil, without doubt the sequence of variation wall be traced, 

 and its relation to meteorological, geological and chemical changes, 

 within the area of its distribution partially indicated. 



In this connection I would direct attention to Prof. Hyatt's 

 interesting letter to Mr. Ingersoll, referring to Steinheim fossils, 

 and to the Valvatse of Lawlor's Lake, Nova Scotia, in Prof. 

 F. V. Hayden's Report, 1874. 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia. ill 



May 3. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



Dr. Geo. A. Koenig was elected a member of the Council to 

 fill the vacanity caused by the resignation of Dr. Chapman. 



May 10. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-eight persons present. 



The deaths of Jos. S. Lovering, a member, and of Dr. James 

 Lewis, of Mohawk, N. Y., a correspondent, were annovmced. 



May n. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yice-President, in the chair. 

 Twentj'-nine persons present. 



The following papers were presented for publication : 

 " Quercus rubra L. var, Texana," by S. B. Buckley. 

 " Quercus Durandii," by S. B. Buckley. 

 " Rhus cotinoides," by S. B. Buckley. 



May 24. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled *' Revision of the Palaeocrinoidea, Part II, 

 Family Spha?roidocrinidifi, including the subfamilies Platycrin- 

 idae, Rhodocrinidae and Actinocrinidge," by Charles Wachsmuth 

 and Frank Springer, was presented for publication. 



The death of Thos. A. Scott, a member, was announced. 



Sexual Characters in FrUillaria atropur^j^urea, Nuttall. — Mr. 

 Thomas Meehan noticed the occurrence of separate male and 

 hermaphrodite flowers in Fritillaria atropurpurea, cases of bi- 




112 I'KOCEEDINGS OK THE ACADEMY OK NATURAL SCIENCES. [1881. 



sexuality being rare in truly liliaceous plants. His specimens were 

 from western Nevada, and the characters now noted were exhibited 

 in 1880 ; but as the plant had only been received a short time 

 before, the absence of female organs might be attributed to weak- 

 ness, but observation this season shows it to be a normal condition. 



The jjlant produced four spikes, flowering on the 15th of May. 

 The spikes were 15, 14, 13, and 11 inches high, respectively, and 

 had from twelve to fourteen narrow glaucous leaves each, and all 

 of apparently equal strength. The tallest spike had but one per- 

 fect floAver; another had the lowermost perfect, but with four 

 others aboA^e, all purelj' staminate. The other two had three 

 flowers each, all staminate. These staminate flowers had antlers 

 as large and as polleniferous as the hermaphrodite ones, and the 

 perianth seemed in every respect as perfect, the only difference 

 being in the total absence of all traces of a gynoecium. It was 

 evidently the normal condition of the species, which, by the way, 

 seems to run closely into Fritillaria pariiifiora. 



Mr. Meehan said the facts were intei-esting, as drawing still 

 closer the well-known relationship of Melanthiace'se and Liliacese. 

 A tendency to diclinism had hitherto been supposed to be the 

 special characteristic of the former order, although occasionally, 

 as in Asparagus, there were indications of the same characteristics 

 in Liliaceae also. 



May 31. 

 Ther President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five members present. 



A paper entitled " Observations on the Hippopotamus," by 

 Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



Alexander Biddle, M. D., W. Norton Whitney, M. D., and John 

 G. Lea, M. D., were elected members. 



Thomas T. Bouve, of Boston, was elected a correspondent. 



The following were ordered to be published : 




PROC. A. N. S, PHILA,, 1881 



PL, 



- ^^>^ 



^ '^^'^^m^^^ 



^^Ayvr4/<^^j, if, '?:^f 





PROC. A, N. S. PHILA., 



PL II. 







T-rr^ 







PROC, A, N. S, PHILA., I88i. 



PL 111, 





PROC, A, N. S. PHILA,, I88i . 



PL IV. 





PROG. A. N. S. PHILA., 1881. 



PL V. 



24 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA,, 1881. 



PLVI. 





PROC. A, N. S, PHILA., 1881 



PL VII, 





]. A. N. S, PHILA,, 



PL Vlli 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA,, 1881. 



PL. IX 



CE ^ ^ 



px pr.th ; ^' *■ 



ab.pl. v 



g^ an 



70 



ab.pl.v' 



71 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA.. 1881. 



PL X 





1881. j NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 113 



LIST OF THE FISHES COLLECTED BY MB. W. J. FISHER, UPON THE 



COASTS OF LOWER CALIFORNIA, 1876-77, WITH 



DESCRIPTIONS OF NEW SPECIES. 



BY W. N. LOCKINGTON. 



In x\.pril, 1876, the schooner Harvest Queen, W. J. Fisher in 

 command, left San Francisco on a collecting expedition to Lower 

 California. The intention was to work down the western coast, 

 and then along the eastern to the head of the Gulf of California ; 

 and the object was to collect seals, birds, fishes, mollusks, Crus- 

 tacea, radiates, etc., for sale or exchange. 



Financially the expedition proA^ed a signal failure ; few skins or 

 shells of value were procured, and most of the former were spoiled 

 before reaching San Francisco ; but the scientific results were far 

 from insignificant. Chieflj' in consequence of the free use of the 

 dredge in depths under fifteen fathoms, large numbers of small 

 Crustacea, many of them new or little known, were procured, also 

 a few rare and three* or four new mollusks, and some interesting 

 fishes from the Gulf, the latter mingled with the Crustacea and 

 other objects di'edged at moderate depths. 



Besides these fishes, which will be described in the following 

 pages, several better known species were taken in considerable 

 quantity at Magdalena Bay, upon the Pacific coast of the peninsula. 



As these fishes have already formed the subject of two short 

 papers in the Proceedings of the California Academj^ of Sciences, 

 and one or two were by error described as new, they will be in- 

 cluded in the^list herein given, with references to my previous papers. 



The reptiles obtained were catalogued in the American Natu?'- 

 alist, April, 1880, p. 295. Nothing new was found among birds, 

 and the only mammals taken were a fine female Elephant seal 

 {Morunga proboscidea) , killed at Ascencion Island, on the western 

 coast of the peninsula ; several sea-lions (Eunietopias stelleri) ; 

 and the skull of a species of Orca. 



Diodon maculatus Lac. Gulf of Cal. 



Tetrodon politus Gill. Magdalena Bay. 



Tetrodon punctatissimus ? Gunther. Gulf of Cal. 



Antennarius leopardinns Gnthr. Gulf of Cal. 

 Hypleurochilus gentilis (Grd.) Gill. La Paz, Las Animas Bay, Gulf of Cal. 



PhoUdichthys anguilliformis Locktn. Gulf of Cal. 



Cremnobates altivelis Locktn. Gulf of Cal. 




114 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



CUnus pJiillippi Steind. Gulf of Cal. 



Apodichthys vnivittatus Locktn. Gulf of Cal. 



Microdesmiis dipus Gnthr. La Paz. 



Gobiesox r/iessodon Rosa Smith. Gulf of Cal. 



OilUchthys mirahilis Cpr. Magdalena Bay. 



Pimelomdopon pulclier (Ayres) Gill. Magdalena Bay. 



Semicosxyphu^ pulcherljoc^tn. Proc. Cal, Ac. Sci., 1876. p. 87. 

 Cynoscion parvipinnis (Ayres) .T. & G. Magdalena Bay. 



Menticirrus undulahis (Grd.) Gil). Magdalena Bay. 



Oirella nigricans (Ayres) Gill. Magdalena Bay. 



Spams brachysomus Locktn. Proc. U. S. National Museum, 1880, 283. 



Magdalena Bay. 

 Pristipoma melanopterum Cuv. . Gulf of Cal. 



Serranus nebtilifer (Grd.) Steind. Magdalena Bay. 



Paralabrax nebuUfer Locktn. Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1876, 86. 

 Serranus clathratus (Grd.) Steind. Magdalena Bay. 



Serramis maculofaseiatus Steind. Angeles Bay, Gulf of Cal. 



Serranus gigas (Ayres) J. «& G. Magdalena Bay. 



Centropomus undecimalis Bloch. Ascencion Island, I. C. 



Centropomus viridis Locktn. Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1876, 109. 

 Selene vomer (L.) Liitken. Magdalena Bay. 



Argyreiosus pacificus Locktn. Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci.', 1876, 84. 

 Trachynotus carolinus (L.) Gtlir., Cuv. and Val. Magdalena Bay. 



Trachynotus ovatus L. Lae. Magdalena Bay. 



Trachynotus ovatus Locktn. Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1876, 86. 

 TracJiurus saurtis Raf. Magdalena Bay. 



Sphyrcena argentea Grd. Magdalena Bay. 



Sphyrosna argentea Locktn. Proc. Cal. Ac. Sci., 1876, 88. 

 Atherinopsis californiensis (Grd.) Gill. Magdalena Bay. 



Myxus harengus Giinther. Las Animas Bay, Gulf of Cal. 



Albula vulpes (L.) Goode. 

 Albula conorhyncJius Locktn., loc. cit. 83. 



Heterodontus francisi (Grd.) J. & G. Magdalena Bay. 



Cestracio7ifrancisi hocktn., loc. cit. 85. 



Mustelus Jdnnulus (Blainville) J. & G. Magdalena Bay. 



Mustelus californicus Locktn., 1 c. 87. 



Triads semifaseiatus Grd. Magdalena Bay. 



Triads semifasciata Locktn., 1. c. 87. 



SpTiyrna zygmia (L.) Raf. South of Cape St. Lucas. 



BrancMostoma lanceolatum (Pallas) Gray. Angeles Bay, Gulf of Cal. 



Tetrodon punctatissimus T Giinther. 



Cat. Fish. Brit. Mus., VIII, p. 302, 1870. 

 D. 9, A. 8, P. 11, G. 2-7, 2. 

 Bod}^ compressed, short ; the dorsal profile from tip of snout to 

 eye slightly concave, thence to origin of dorsal gently convex, 




1881]. NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



thence descending nioderatel}', somewhat concave from posterior 

 margin of dorsal to caudal. Abdominal outline slightly concave 

 in front of eye, thence boldly convex to origin of anal, thence cor- 

 responding to dorsal outline. 



Head 3^ times, greatest depth 2yV in total length, the greatest 

 depth above the centre of the pectoral base ; greatest breadth (at 

 gill-openings) less than the length of the head, and 3j% in total 

 length. Snout H, eye 4 times in length of head, width of inter- 

 orbital area about 1^ times the diameter of the eye. Depth of 

 caudal peduncle nearly 2| times in greatest depth. 



The back behind the head forms a keel. 



Snout truncate at the tip, concave above and below, higher than 

 wide ; nostrils inconspicuous, a single opening on each side on a 

 minute papilla; mouth small; eyes round, lateral, entirely in the 

 posterior half of the head, the upper orbital margins slightly 

 raised, so that the interorbital area is somewhat concave. 



Teeth smooth, sharp-edged, line of junction distinct. 



Gill-opening small, almost perpendicular, distant from the e3-e 

 about an ej'e-diameter. 



Dorsal fin arising at a distance from the gill-opening equal to 

 the length of the head, with nine articulated rays, the first simple, 

 the others once or twice divided. Base of dorsal less than one- 

 third of the length of the snout, height rather more than one- 

 third of length of head. 



Anal slightlj' posterior to dorsal, with eight rays, the first ver- 

 tical with the posterior margin of the dorsal ; height and length of 

 base equal to dorsal. 



Caudal very slightly convex on posterior margin when opened 

 out, all the principal rays divided, some of the central ones four 

 times ; length of fin about 5^ times in total length. 



' Pectoral base oblique, its upper axil near the upjDcr end of the 

 gill-slit, thence backwards and downwards at an angle of about 

 4.5°. Pectoral fin fan-shaped, rather short (the tips of the rays in 

 the specimen are slightly injured), the uppermost ra^^ short, 

 simple ; the next (longest) simple ; the others once or twice 

 divided, slightlj^ diminishing in length downwards. 



Top and sides of head, breast, and abdomen to anal fin with 

 prickly papillte, most numerous upon the breast and under side of 

 the snout. Rest of body naked. 



Color purple, thickly sown with subcircular or subelliptic 




116 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



lighter spots ; these become larger upon the flanks, until the 

 ground color fades out, leaving the abdomen, breast, and under 

 side of snout dirty yellow. Spots of sides and upper portion 

 light purplish. Behind the anal fin the spots can be traced all 

 round the body. No color bands or spots are now evident upon 

 the fins. Specimen in alcohol since 1816. 



Angeles Ba}' ; Gulf of California. 



From T. furthii, Steind. (Sitz. Akad. Wiss. Wien, 1876. Icthyol. 

 Beitrage, V, p. 22) this species may readily be distinguished by • 

 the great length of the snout, two-thirds of that of the head, while 

 in the T. furthii it is only f-x\ of the head. Other difterences are 

 the absence of a skin-fold on the tail, the inconspicuous nasal 

 papilla, and the smaller development of the spinules upon the 

 back. The coloration is also different. T. furthii has indistinct 

 transverse bands, and a dark band on the pectoral base 



The short description given by Dr. Giinther of T . punctatissi- 

 mus agrees, so far as it goes, with the present species. His 

 specimens were from Panama. Should the present species prove 

 distinct, I propose for it the name of oxyrhynchus. Length of 

 specimen, 3*06 inches. 



Antennarius leopardinus, Gnthr.? 



Trans. Zool. Soc, 1864, 15 *. 



Fishes Cent. Amer. in Trans. Zool. Soc, Vol. VI, 434, PI. VII. 



This species was originally described from Panama. 



Two examples were obtained by Mr. Fisher by dredging at a 

 depth of 22 fathoms, among beds of pearl oyster (Mar gar itophor a) 

 off San Jos^ Island, Amortiguado Bay, Gulf of California. The 

 spots have in most cases faded into light yellow, leaving the 

 bright vermilion of all the rest of the body and fins unchanged. 

 A black spot persists upon the ninth ray of the dorsal, and there 

 are traces of black upon the sides and head. The under side of 

 the abdomen, in advance of the anal, is light yellowish with dark 

 spots. Total length 1*95 inches ; width from tip to tip of pec- 

 torals riO in. 



Cremnobates altivelis, nov. sp. 



D. 4-25, A. 21, P. 13, C. 13, V. 2, L. lat. 37. 



Body compressed, greatest depth a little behind pectoral axil, 

 greatest thickness at gill-covers, dorsal and abdominal profiles of 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. Tit 



similar curvature, decreasing regularly to the caudal fin. Profile 

 of occiput and superorbital regions convex ; snout somewhat 

 produced, its upper outline slightly concave. 



Head one-fourth of total length, greatest depth a little less than 

 length of head, caudal peduncle about one-fourth of the greatest 

 depth. 



Eye round, lateral, with a slight direction upwards, its diameter 

 less than the length of the snout. Interorbital area nearly equal 

 in width to the diameter of the eye, concave transversel}', upper 

 orbital borders slightl}^ raised. 



A short nasal tentacle slightly anterior to the front margin of 

 the eye. A large fimbriated tentacle on each side of the first 

 dorsal ray. 



Cleft of mouth oblique, the lower jaw the longer ; the posterior 

 convex extremity of the club-shaped maxillary about vertical 

 with the centre of the pupil. 



Teeth of the outer row regular, sharp, incurved, the largest in 

 front, graduallv decreasing along the lateral portions of the jaws, 

 and not extending much past the middle of their length. A 

 narrow band of small teeth in the rear of the outer row. Vomer- 

 ine teeth. 



Branchiostegals six. Gill-openings continuous, membranes not 

 attached to the isthmus. 



Distance from the first ray of the dorsal to the posterior margin 

 of the eye equal to the length of the snout. First two rays of the 

 dorsal much developed, the first slightly the longer, and nearly 

 equal in height to the distance of its base from the tip of the 

 upper jaw ; third ray about half the length of the first ; fourth 

 very shoi't ; succeeding rays to the twentj^-sixth longer than the 

 third, the three last somewhat decreasing. 



Anal commencing under the eleventh dorsal raj^ ; coterminous 

 with, and equal in height to the dorsal. 



Caudal with thirteen simple jointed rays, the longest in the 

 centre, posterior margin convex. 



Pectorals narrow, lanceolate, the fifth and sixth rays longest, 

 and four-fifths the length of the head. 



Ventrals inserted in advance of the pectorals. 



Lateral line with thirty-seven simple pores, parallel with dorsal 

 outline to opposite the origin of the anal, where it is deflected 




118 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



almost perpeiuliculjvrly downward to the middle of the side of the 

 bod3-, along which it continues to its termination. 



Scales rather lai'ge, about ten in a transverse row in the central 

 part of the body, their posterior margin membranous. No scales 

 on fins. 



A line of pores around the margin of the orbit, another along 

 the posterior margin of the pre-operculum, connected to each 

 other and to the lateral line by a line from tlie centre of the hinder 

 border of the eye. 



Color (in alcohol) bright pink above, becoming dusky below, 

 under side of head light olivaceous, lower lip blackish. Dorsal 

 pink, dusky on its margin, a black spot on the fourth ray, and 

 another on its hinder part upon the 24-25th rays, the latter spot 

 extending on to the body. Membrane of anal black. Occipital 

 tentacles black. 



Total length 1-9 inch. A single specimen from La Paz, dredged 

 at a depth of 22 fathoms. 



This species maj^ be distinguished from G. monophthalmus, 

 Gnthr., by the much greater development of the first two dorsal 

 rays ; by the longer and concave snout, and by the coloration ; and 

 from C. marmoraius^ Steind. (Sitz. Akad. Wiss., Wien, 18T6, 174), 

 by its more elongate form, shorter cleft of month, and longer first 

 dorsal ra^'. In C. marmoratus the second dorsal ray is longest. 



Pholidichthys anguilliformis nov. sp. 



Body exceedingly elongate, much compressed, naked, upper 

 profile of head forming a continuous convex curve to the tip of 

 the snout, which is about equal in length to the eye, 



Head six and two-fifths, greatest depth sixteen times in total 

 length. 



Eye lateral, round ; interorbital space about two-thirds of the 

 diameter of the eye, convex transversely. 



Posterior extremit}' of maxillary vertical with the hinder margin 

 of the eye. Tip of snout a little below the level from the centre 

 of the eye ; mouth moderately oblique, lower jaw slightly the 

 longer. Teeth of lower jaw in a close-set row, the largest in front, 

 diminishing along the sides. Teeth of upper jaw similar but 

 smaller. Palate smooth. 



Vertical fins continuous but distinct, dorsal entirely spinous, 

 anal commencing a little behind the middle of the entire length of 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 119 



the fish. Ventrals two-rayed, very slightly in advance of the 

 jsectorals, which are about equal in length to the distance of their 

 base from the eye. 



Color (in spirits) dark bla.-kish brown, mingled with white 

 upon top, sides and lower parts of head. Interorbital area and 

 top of snout white. 



A single specimen dredged off San Jose Island, Amortiguado 

 Bay, Gulf of California. Total length 1-60 in. Head 0-25 in. 



The example is broken across, the branchiostegals are defec- 

 tive, the caudal fin broken, and some fin- rays missing, so that the 

 fin formula cannot be accurately given. The dorsal fin has above 

 sixty raj^s. The bod}' is much moi-e slender than that of P. 

 leucotsenia Bleeker, and there is no trace of the longitudinal bluish 

 white band of that species. 



Apodichthys univittatus, nov. sp. 

 D. circa 95. A. ca. 1-40. 



Body elongate, much compressed, band-like, presei-ving almost 

 the same depth to about the posterior fifth of the body, thence 

 tapering more rapidly to the caudal fin. 



Head seven, depth nearh^ ten times in the total length ; depth 

 of caudal peduncle about one-half of that of body. 



Snout obtuse, about two-thirds as long as the diameter of the eye, 

 the upper profile of the head a continuous curve from snout to occi- 

 put. Interorbital area highly convex transversely, about equal in 

 width to half the diameter of the eye. Ej^e entirely lateral, round, 

 contained entirely in the anterior half of the head ; iris golden. 



Mouth small, the posterior extremity of the maxillary reaching 

 to the anterior margin of the eye. Teeth small. 



Branchiostegals five. 



Dorsal fin continuous with but distinct from the anal, arising 

 A' ertically above the tip of the operculum, and composed of spines 

 only. Anal preceded by a long, sharp, slender spine of V-shaped 

 transverse section, the hollow side anterior, the length of the 

 spine equal to about half the depth of the fish. Distance from 

 anal spine to tip of operculum a little more than to tip of caudal. 

 Caudal with numerous accessory rays, so that its sides are almost 

 straight, posterior margin broken in specimen, all the rays simple. 



General color (in spirits) light reddish, the vertical fins rather 

 bright, and the top of the head reddish brown. Tip of snout 

 brown, A silvery band (possibly bluish in life) from the tip of 




120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the snoTit, across the lower pai't of the eye, cheeks and opercles, 

 terminating at about the middle of the length of the operculum ; 

 this band bordered above by a narrower brown band. 



A single specimen. Lower California, probably from the Gulf. 



Length 1-88 in. Length of head 0-27 in. Greatest depth 

 0'19 in. Snout to anal spine TIO in. 



The peculiar vitta upon each side of the head at once dis- 

 tinguishes this species from tiie two other described forms. 



Microdesmus dipus, Giinther. 



Trans. Zool. Soc, 1864, p. 26. 

 A single specimen of this rare species was obtained at La Paz, 

 near low-tide level. 



Hemiramphus uaifasciatus, Ranzani. 

 D. 14. A. 16. 



With some hesitation I refer two specimens taken in Las 

 Animas Bay, Gulf of California, to this species rather than to 

 H. rosse J. & G. The proportion of the jaw to the length of 

 the body, as well as the number of dorsal rays, agree with 

 unifasciatus. 



On each side of the median line of the back a row of elongated 

 spots of dark greenish tint, one on each scale, forms a narrow 

 band, and between these bands is a median series of dark spots 

 formed by thickly aggregated black dots. Between the narrow 

 dark-green band and the lateral band similar close aggregations of 

 dark spots form a series of spots, elongated transversely. The 

 silvery lateral band is bordered above by a narrower greenish 

 stripe. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 121 



QUEKCUS DURANDII, Buckley. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY, PH. D. 



I bad spent several years in studying the trees of the United 

 States in their native places, when, in the month of September, 

 1859, as I was walking from Camden to Allenton, in Wilcox 

 County, Alabama, I saw an oak, different from any I had ever 

 seen. It was in a dark, rich, limestone soil, on the right hand 

 side of the road, about three miles from Allenton. The bark of 

 its trunk and limbs was scaly ; leaves lanceolate, entire or slightly 

 lobed or repand ; acorns small, ovate, obtuse ; cup ver^^ shallow, 

 about one-eighth as long as the acorn. The tree Avas 1 foot in 

 diameter and about 25 feet high, and the only one there. I showed 

 specimens of it to the gentleman with whom I staid all night. 

 He told me it was a rare oak in that country, growing near the 

 banks of streams and swamps, that its wood was close grained 

 and xery tough, making excellent screws for cotton-gins, firm and 

 durable wagon-hubs, etc., also splints for making baskets for the 

 cotton-fi^ld, when the cotton is being gathered; that it was seldom 

 more than 3 feet in diameter and 60 feet high. 



This oak was the Quercus Durandii, a new species which I de- 

 scribed in the Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences in 

 1861. It is named after the late Elias Durand, who was for many 

 years chairman of the Committee on Botany of the Academy. 



In October, 1859, I saw it again at Shreveport, in Louisiana, on 

 the bluffs of the Red River, in the upper part of the town. There 

 its acorns were larger and longer than in Alabama. Here there 

 were several trees of it, one of which was 4 feet 2 inches in dia- 

 meter at 3 feet from the ground. These were low, spreading trees, 

 growing in an open space. 



In Southern Texas, on the Colorado River, in Fort Bend and 

 other counties, it is a large tree, often 2 to 3 feet in diameter and 

 60 to YO feet high. 



In 1814, in Milam County, Texas, I saw many large, tall trees 

 of this oak in the bottom lands of Little River, a tributary of 

 the Brazos. There it is sometimes called the " bastard white oak " 

 because the bark of its trunk resembles that of the scaly forms 

 of white oak. 



Durand's oak grows on the bauks of Shoal Creek, one-half to 




122 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



two miles above Austin, also near Mount Bond, about three miles 

 from the eit^-. 



In 1872, Mr. Elihu Hall, of Athens, Illinois, was at Austin col- 

 lecting plants. I showed him Durand's oalc, which is referred to 

 as a good species in his " Plants TexanjE," published in 1873. 



Mr. Charles Mohr, Botanist for the Tenth Census Department of 

 Forestry in tlie Gulf States, was here, last November, and obtained 

 sections of the wood, and specimens of the leaves and acorns of 

 Q. Durandii for the Department of Forestry under the direction 

 of Prof. Chas. S. Sargent, for the United States Government. 



Lastly, Prof. Sargent came here tliree weeks ago, and together 

 we visited the banks of Shoal Creek, where there were several small 

 trees of this oak, the largest being nearly two feet in diameter. 

 He was satisfied it was a good species. 



I have been thus particular in giving the history of this oak to 

 the present time, because all who have seen the living trees regard 

 it as a good species, which is not the case with some who have not. 

 In Dr. Engelmann's " Oaks of the United States," published at 

 p. 392, " Transactions of St. Louis Academy," speaking of the 

 forms of Quercus undulata, he says: •' The var. Gamhelii runs 

 into variety Gunnisonii on one side, and on the other into variety 

 breviloba {Q, ohtusiloha var. hrevifolia^ Torrey, Bot. Bound, and 

 probably Q. Durandii and San sabea, Buckley)." Dr. E. thus 

 regards it as probably identical with a marked variety of Quercus 

 undulata^ an opinion which a better acquaintance with living trees 

 would surely lead him to revise. Without extensive field expe- 

 rience it is almost impossible to decide on the limits of species in 

 oaks, as well as in grapes and other difficult genera. 




1881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 123 



QTJERCUS RUBRA, L., var. TEXANA. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY, PH. D. 



Quercus rubra is distributed over a larger area than any other 

 oak in North America. According to Dr. Richardson, it is the 

 most northern of oaks ; he found it on the Saskatchewan and the 

 rocks of Lake Xamakeen, in British America. It is in Nova 

 Scotia, and southward through the United States to El Paso 

 County, in the northwest part of Texas. The writer saw it in 

 the coves of the mountains near Fort Davis, in the summer of 

 1875, at elevations of fi-om 5000 to 6000 feet above the sea. The 

 differences of soil and climate in which it grows cause it to vary 

 so much in size, wood, leaves and acorns that the two extremes of 

 difference considered apart from intermediate forms, would make 

 two ver}^ good species. The Texas form, growing on limestone 

 hills and coves and little valley's in the vicinitj' of Austin and 

 westward, has been called Q. ijalustris hy Torrey and Gra}', 

 in the Report of the Botany of the Pacific Railroad. Report of 

 Capt. John Pope, p. 173; also in other reports of theirs on the 

 Botany of Texas. It has also been called Q. palustris by Dr. 

 Engelmann, when he named the plants collected by Elihu Hall in 

 Texas in 1872. (See Hall's Plantee Texana?, p. 21, Nos. 604 and 

 605.) Hall obtained specimens of it here in June, and I sent 

 him acorns of it in the fall, and he informed me that Dr. Engel- 

 mann regarded it as Q. palustris. I have never seen the true Q. 

 palustris farther south than the vicinity of Washington. Prof Sar- 

 gent and Mr. Mohr both inform me that they do not know of its 

 being in the Southern States, and so says Michaux, in his " North 

 American Sjdva." It is not in Chapman's " Flora of the Southern 

 States." These things in part, joined with the characteristics of 

 the oak as growing here, caused me to describe it as a new species. 

 (See Q. Texana, in Young's " Flora of Texas," p. 507.) If not a 

 good species, it is a well-marked variety of Q. rubra. Let it then 

 be called Q. rubra var. Texana. 



Last December, Mr. Charles Mohr and myself got sections of its 

 wood, etc., which he sent North for the Department of Forestry 

 of the Government Census Bureau. We then thought it to be a 

 good species. A few daA^s after, on the bottom lands of Walnut 

 Creek, about six miles below Austin, we found the acorns and 




124 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



leaves of Q. rubra and also those of Q. 2'exana on and beneath 

 the same tree ; and also many intermediate forms. It was not 

 onl_y one tree, hut man}', which showed these differences. 



Quercus rubra attains a large size in Eastern Texas ; but west 

 of the Trinity River it is seldom more than two feet in diameter. 

 Its wood here is harder, firmer and better than that of the 

 Northern red oak. 



About two miles from Raleigh, North Carolina, on the F'ayette- 

 ville road, in 1858, I measured a Quercus rubra which was 20 feet 

 8 inches in circumference at three feet from the ground. It was a 

 low tree, with a remarkable spread of very large limbs, whose 

 length on the south side was 72 feet and 71 feet. The longest on 

 the north side was 66 feet. Near the base of its limbs at ten feet 

 from the ground it was 27 feet in circumference. The circum- 

 ference of the largest limb, at two feet from the trunk, was 9 feet 

 7 inches. Another limb was 7 feet 7 inches in circumference. 



In September, 1859, I measured a Q. rubra in Wilcox County, 

 Alabama, which was 24 feet 7 inches in circurnference at three 

 feet from the ground. It was a tall, well-developed, healthy tree. 

 Another one not far distant was 18 feet 2 inches in circumference 

 at three feet. In the town of Romulus, Seneca County, N. Y., 

 I measured another, in 1865, which was 17 feet 2 inches in in cir- 

 cumfererence at three feet high. Most of the large red oaks of 

 the Northern States have been cut down to make staves for flour 

 barrels, etc. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 125 



KHUS COTINOIDES, Nutt. 

 BY S. B. BUCKLEY, PH. D. 



This sumac was discovered by Nuttall, in the autumn of 1819, 

 on the Grand, a large tributary of the Arkansas River, and within 

 the limits of the present Indian Territory. It was on high broken 

 rocky banks at a place tlien known as tlie "Eagle's Nest.'' It 

 grew there only as a shrub, and was not again found by Nuttall. 

 He gives a description of it, with a plate, at p. 71, vol. ii, of his 

 addition to Michaux's " North American Sylva." He there calls 

 it Cohnus Americana. Nuttall's specimens were in fruit only. 



I found this same Ehus on the 6th of April, 1842, in descending 

 from the table lands of North Alabama to the Tennessee River, 

 on the Huntsville road. Here were large shrubs of it growing 

 in clumps from 8 to 10 feet high. They were in fruit and 

 strikingly beautiful. I collected many specimens of them 



Soon after, I came to the river and staid all night at a Mr. 

 Chun's. Next morning, I crossed at " Ditto's Landing," and 

 went on the Madison turnpike to Huntsville, nine miles distant. 

 After dinner, I went twelve miles from Huntsville to a Mr. 

 Bailee's, in Madison County, Alabama, on the road to Winchester, 

 Tennessee, via Salem. From Mr. Bailee's house I walked up to 

 the top of a low mountain to get specimens. Near its base and 

 on its sides, in wooded ravines, I saw several trees of R. cotinoides 

 in flower, and with larger leaves than those seen before south of 

 the Tennessee River. These trees were about 38 feet high and 

 from 8 to 12 inches in diameter, with trunks and larger limbs 

 coated with light gray and deeply-furrowed bark resembling the 

 bark of the larger trees of the common sassafras {S. officinale). 



I climbed a tree to obtain specimens. The branches were 

 brittle, and when broken emitted a yellowish sap, the odor of 

 which was highly aromatic ; to me very unpleasant. 

 . This sumac, when in fruit, resembles the common Venetian sumac 

 {Rhus cotinus), as is indicated by its specific name. It must be 

 very local in its habitats, and also very rare. I think it has not 

 been found elsewhere than in the Indian Territory and North 

 Alabama. 



In Chapman's " Flora of the Southern States," p. 10, it is stated 

 that I found it in the interior of Alabama. Dr. Chapman was led 

 into this error from our correspondence and exchange of plants 

 when I was living in Wilcox County, Alabama. 




126 proceedings of the academy of [1881. 



June 7. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons pi-esent. 



The following was ordered to be printed : 



OBSERVATIONS UPON THE HIPPOPOTAMUS. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M. D. 



On several different occasions, before and daring the reign of 

 Augustus and of his successors, Antoninus, Commodus, Heleoga- 

 balus, etc., the Hippopotamus was exhibited at Rome. Xaturally 

 one would suppose, therefore, that among the writers of those 

 times a truthful description of this interesting animal would be 

 found. Pliny's ^ account, however, is only a restatement of tlie 

 imperfect and erroneous descriptions of Herodotus and Aristotle, 

 with some mistalies of his own added, while tliose of later Latin 

 writers like Tatius, though better than Pliny's, are still obscure 

 and contain errors. Indeed, the Hippopotamus, as described by 

 Herodotus ^ and Aristotle,^ is so unlike the animal known at the 

 present day, that either these usually most accurate and trust- 

 worthy observers could never have seen the Hippopotamus or 

 else they must have desciibed s6me other animal under that name. 

 About the middle of the sixteenth century it is said that Belon 

 saw the living Hippopotamus at Constantinople, but even so late 

 as the time of Cuvier^ the living animal had not been seen in 

 Western Europe. The London Zoological Garden, I believe, has 

 the credit of iiaving been the first in modern times (during 1850) 

 to exhibit the living Hippopotamus. 



So far as I know, the first dissection of this animal was mad.e 

 in 1764, by Daubenton.-^ The specimen, however, being a female 



1 De animalibus, Lib. viii, cap. xxxix ; Lib. ix, cap. xiv. 

 - Historia, Lib. ii, cap. Ixxi. 



* Historia Animalium, Lib. ii, cap. iv. 



* Ossemens Fossiles, Tome deuxieme, p. 383. 



5 Histoire naturelle, &c., avec la description du Cabinet du Roi. Tome 

 douzieme, 1764, p. 50. Supplement to Buffon. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 127 



foetus, it was questionable liow far the description wonld apply to 

 the adult animal. Nothing further was added to the above account 

 until, in 1844, Vrolik^ described the stomach of a half-grown indi- 

 vidual from drawings sent from the Cape of Good Hope. A few 

 years afterwards Peters,^ in his Travels, gives a short but valuable 

 account of the appearance that the viscera presented in the adult 

 animal. It will be seen, therefore, that the knowledge of the soft 

 parts of the Hippopotamus was very limited up to quite a recent 

 period. During 1867 there appeared the elaborate monograph of 

 Gratiolet^ on the anatom}^ of this animal, and the important 

 observations of Crisp. ^ Gratiolet's description was derived from 

 his dissection of the two A'oung animals, male and female, that 

 were born and had died in the Jardin des Plantes. Science 

 is indebted to Dr. Alix for the publication of this important 

 work, Gratiolet dying before its completion. This distinguished 

 anatomist had, however, before his death, communicated to the 

 Academic des Sciences,^ an abstract of his researches. A third 

 young Hippopotamus having died in Paris during the preparation 

 of the work just referred to, Dr. Alix had a further opportunity 

 of supplementing and confirming Gratiolet's A'iews. Dr. Crisp's 

 specimen was a male and about fourteen months old ; it was burnt 

 to death in the fire that destroyed the Crystal Palace in London, 

 and was the first Hippopotamus dissected in England. Dr. Crisp ^ 

 refers to Gratiolet's abstract in Annales des Sciences Naturelles 

 for 1860, but does not mention that in Comptes Rendus for 1860. 

 His observations were, therefore, uninfluenced by those of Gratiolet. 

 In 1872, Mr. J. W. Clark ^ published the " Notes on the Visceral 

 Anatom}" of the Hippopotamus " that died in the London Garden. 

 This animal was a female, and only a few days old. 



It is well known that in addition to the ordinary Hippopotamus, 

 there is a rarer species from the Western Coast of Africa, first 



' Amsterdam Verhandelingen, x, 1844, p. 240 ; Recherches sur la Baby- 

 russa. 



■^ Reise nach Mosambique, 1852, i, p. 180, 



^ Recherches sur I'anatomie de I'Hlppopotame. Paris, 1867. 



* On some points connected with the anatomy of the Hippopotamus. 

 Proc. of Lond. Zool. Soc, 1867, p. 601 and 689. 



5 Comptes Rendus, 1860, pp. 524, 593. 



« Op. cit., p. 601. 



' Proc. Zool. Soc, London, 1872, p. 185. 




128 PEOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



made known by Morton,' and called by him Hippopotamus 

 Liberiensis. Its osteology was afterwards fully described by 

 Prof. Leidy,^ who showed that this species differed so much from 

 the ordinary one that a distinct name, Chceropsis, was given to 

 it, as indicating that the supposed new species was really a new 

 genus. Prof. Leidy's views have since been thoroughly' corrobo- 

 rated by other anatomists, particularly by Milne Edwards,^ in his 

 recent beautiful monograph on this animal. The only living 

 example of the Choeropsis Liberiensis ever seen outside of Africa 

 was the female specimen only three or four months old that died 

 a few minutes after arriving at the Zoological Gardens in Dublin 

 in 18*74, and that formed the subject of a paper by Mr. Alex, 

 Macalester.^ Since then, within a year, the late lamented Dr. A. 

 H. Garrod ^ communicated to the Zoological Society of London 

 the results of his dissection of the adult male Hippopotamus that 

 had lived twentj^-eight years in their admirably conducted Garden. 

 It will be observed from this resume of the literature of the 

 subject that, with one or two exceptions, the Hippopotami tlmt 

 have been dissected were young animals ; some not more than a 

 few days or weeks, others about a year old, and that with the 

 exception of the Choeropsis examined at Dublin, they were of the 

 ordinary kind, or the Hippopotamus amphibius. 



While the general results of these various observations are con- 

 firmator}' of each other, nevertheless, on account of the ditference 

 in the age and sex of the individuals dissected, it is still important 

 that whenever the opportunity presents itself of examining a full 

 or half-grown Hippopotamus the results of such dissection should 

 be compared with those already made for the sake of confirming, 

 supplementing, or farther illustrating them. It is with this object 

 that I bring before the Academy the results of my examinations 

 of the female Hippopotamus which recently died in the menagerie 

 of Mr. Adam Forepaugh, to whom I am indebted for the oppor- 

 tunity of dissecting it ; and of the male specimen that died in New 



^ Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, vol. ii, p. 14 ; Journal, vol. i, 1849, p. 231. 



2 Journal Acad. Nat. Sci, vol. ii, 1852. 



^ Recherches sur les mammiferes. 



* Proc. of Royal Irish Academy, 1874. The anatomy of Choeropsis Libe- 

 riensis. 



"•> Trans, of Zoo. Soc. of London, 1880. On the Brain and other parts of 

 the Hippopotamus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 129 



York on its way to the Zoological Garden of Philadelphia. I take 

 the occasion also of thanking Mr. Arthur E, Brown, Superintend- 

 ent of the Zoological Garden where the dissections were made, for 

 materially assisting me in the investigation. 



Both the animals were examples of the ordinary species, the 

 Hippopotamus amphibius, and measured about 5 feet 6 inches in 

 length. The female was both the taller and heavier of the two. 

 Her height at the shoulder being 28 inches and weight 550 pounds. 

 She was probably older than the male. The condition of the skin 

 in the female suggested the idea that it had not been sufficiently 

 bathed during the past winter. It is well known that the health 

 of the skin, and of the animal generally, depends upon the free use 

 of water, either in the form of a bath, or where that is not practi- 

 cable, by constant sponging, etc. With the exception of some 

 slight inflammation of the fourth stomach and an apparent hyper- 

 trophy of the left ventricle of the heart, the organs were healthy. 

 The male animal died from an inflammation of the stomach and 

 intestines, the epithelium and submucous tissue in parts of the 

 stomach being stripped off, while portions of the intestine were 

 gangi'enous. The immediate cause of death was a large well- 

 organized clot in the heart. As the myology of Hippopotamus 

 and of Choeropsis have been described and figured by Gratiolet ^ 

 and Macalester ^ respectively, I will not dwell upon this part of 

 the subject, but pass to the consideration of the internal organs. 



Alimentary System, etc. — The tongue of the Hippopotamus 

 (PI. XI, fig. 1) is a long, flattened organ expanded and rounded off 

 at the top rather than tapered. It measured 1 4 inches in length, in 

 breadth 3^ inches at the middle and 5 inches at the top. A t the 

 back of the tongue where one finds the circumvallate papillae in 

 man, in place of these are seen what might be called elongated, 

 thorn}'^ papillae. They do not correspond to either the human 

 filiform or fungiform papillae. The latter were well developed. I 

 did not notice anything peculiar about the submaxillary gland, 

 the sublingual however was absent;^ the parotids were present, 

 but not very well developed, as Gratiolet states was the case in 

 the animals examined by him. The small size of the parotids in 

 the Hippopotamus may be due to the habit of passing so much 

 time in the water ; the necessity of the secretion not being felt, 



1 Op. cit., Planches IV to VIIL ^ Op. cit., pages 496, 500. 



3 Op. cit., p. 384. 

 10 




130 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



as is the case in fishes. According to Gratiolet,^ it is doubtful 

 if they were present in the very young animal. 



What at once struck me, on exposing the larynx, etc., was the 

 space (PI. XI, fig. 1) intervening between it and the tongue, and 

 the large size of the back of the tongue as compared with the 

 epiglottis. Through the flexibility of this space the larynx when 

 elevated can be thrust up into the posterior nares ; this space, 

 together with the tongue, effectually cutting off the cavity of the 

 mouth. This can be well seen in the living animal. It is possible 

 that tliis disposition of the parts may be of advantage to tlie Hippo- 

 potamus when sunk in the water. Under such circumstances, the 

 nose only appearing, the air can pass into the external nares and 

 so back directly into the larynx. Further, as the external nares 

 are extremely flexible and close very tightly, it may be that the 

 animal before sinking under the water can take in a considerable 

 quantity of air into the nose and retain it there until needed, 

 when it is then drawn into the lar3nix. On looking over the 

 literature of the anatomy of the Hippopotamus, I find that 

 Gratiolet^ and Clark » are the only ones who dwell particularly 

 upon this part of its economy. Clark gives figures of tlie spaces 



1 have referred to, and points out what appears to be the probable 

 function of the parts. The lar3nix and its muscles have been 

 well described hy Gratiolet,* Crisp ^ and Clark." It would be 

 superfluous therefore for me to dwell upon them. I will, however, 

 call attention in this connection to the fact of the epiglottis 

 (Plate XI, figs. 1 and 2 e) being small as compared with the larynx 

 (Plate XI, fig. 2), the former measuring 2|- inches in length, and 



2 inches wide, the latter being 6i inches long and 6^ in circum- 

 ference, and that the nares, epiglottis, etc., of the Hippopotamus 

 I'eminded me rather of those of the Manatee than of those of the 

 Cetacea. The vocal cords were situated obliquely, the anterior 

 ends being lowermost; they measure 2 inches in length and ^ inch 

 in depth. There was nothing peculiar about the lungs ; they were 

 not divided into lobes or subdivided into lobviles recognizable by 

 the naked eye, as described by Gratiolet.^ 



The stomach in the Hippopotamus is subdivided into four distinct 



1 Op. cit., p. 384. 2 Op. cit., p. 375. 



3 Op. cit., p. 188. * Op. cit., p. 305. 



Op. cit., p. 608. •* Compare Gratiolet, op. cit., p. 368. 



On oM. n S74. 



' Op, cit., p. 374 




1881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 131 



compartments, &, c, d and e (Plate XII) ; the first, h, however, 

 not being so apparent externall}' as the other three (shown in 

 Plate XI, fig. 3). The oesophagus, a (Plate XII), opens freely 

 into the compartment 6, which is situated posteriorly, and which 

 might be easily overlooked unless opened. I propose calling this 

 compartment the first stomach, as the food can pass from the 

 oesophagus into it without necessarily passing into either of the 

 other two stomachs, c and d, whereas the food must pass through 

 a small part at least of b in order to get into c or d. This is 

 due to a peculiar disposition at the entrance of the stomachs c 

 and d (Plate XIII). At this point the lining membrane is 

 raised up into two valvular folds, g and h (PI. XIII), of which the 

 former is the best developed. The fold g almost divides the 

 second stomach into two parts. These folds are 10 and 4 inches 

 in length respectively, and abovit the ^ of an inch in breadth, and 

 contain muscular fibres. When these folds are approximated the 

 oesophagus, a, and first stomach, &, are completely shut off from c 

 and d. When, however, the valvular folds are separated, then 

 the food can pass from the oesophagus, a, or from stomach, 6, 

 over the edges of the folds, g and h, into either the stomachs, c 

 or d. As the compartment d passes into e, which is continuous 

 with the intestine, /", it appears to me that the two compartments 

 may be appropriately called the third and fourth stomachs, in 

 which case c would be the second one. 



From a simple inspection of the stomachs of the Hippopotamus, 

 one would be disposed to conclude that the animal was a rumi- 

 nant. As the act of rumination, however, has never been observed 

 in the Hippopotamus, either in captivity or in the wild state, so 

 far as is known, the inference must be that the food passes either 

 directl}^ from the oesophagus into the second or third stomachs, as 

 is probably the case with liquids, or into the first stomach, and 

 then indirectly into the second or third, when more solid articles 

 are introduced. 



The four stomachs differ considerably in size, the third, d^ being 

 by far the largest ; it measured from right to left 27 inches, as seen 

 in situ in PI. XII ; it overlaps, when viewed from the anterior sur- 

 face, the second and fourth stomachs, c and e, and, to a great 

 extent conceals the first stomach, &, especially when the latter is 

 empty. The first stomach, b, measured 15 inches from right to 

 left, and is so closel}^ united to the third one, d, that externall}^ 




132 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the two look like one when empty, and their distinctness does not 

 become evident until they are forcibly separated and opened. 

 The first stomacli is also connected laterally with the third and 

 fourth ones. These are about the same length, 7 inches, measured 

 from right to left. The third stomach communicated with the 

 fourth by a narrow aperture, which measured 3 inches in diameter. 

 In situ the second stomach was situated in the left hypochondriac 

 region ; the fourth stomach on the right ; the third stomach lying 

 between the third and fourth and in the same plane, and in front 

 and partially concealing the first stomach. 



The difierence in the four stomachs of the Hippopotamus viewed 

 internally are even more marked than those observed externally. 

 The smooth mucous membrane of the oesophagus contrasts strongly 

 with that of the first stomach, in which the mucous membrane 

 exhibits parallel folds or ridges. In the second stomach the ridges 

 are seen, but here they consist of rows of villi, averaging the ^ of 

 an inch in height ; the villi are not so closely set on the rows but 

 that they can be readil}' distinguished. The villi in the third stom- 

 ach, however, are densely packed and smaller than those of the 

 second stomach. In addition the mucous membrane is thrown into 

 eight large (the seventh divided into two) folds that run at right 

 angles to the long axis of the stomach. The mucous membrane of 

 the fourth stomach differed from that of the others in being the 

 only one containing the gastric glands ; according to Dr. Hunt, 

 these measure in length -^^^ of an inch, in breadth yi^ of an inch. 

 The food did not seem to be digested to any extent in the first three 

 stomachs, but lay as a sodden mass. In the fourth stomach, how- 

 ever, the food was softened, and its general appearance differed 

 from that of the other stomachs. As the animal died shortly after 

 eating, digestion had not been going on any length of time, so 

 that any great change in the food could not have taken place. In 

 the case of the male, the fourth stomach had been affected by dis- 

 ease and the food appeared almost unchanged. The small intestine 

 in the female measured TO feet, the large intestine 11 feet. There 

 were no valvulse conniventes in the small intestine but the mucous 

 membrane was villous and exhibited the Lieberkiihnian follicle and 

 the Peyer's patches in the lower two-thirds. There was no very 

 sharp line of demarkation between the small and large intestines, 

 the beginning of the latter being indicated by a slight enlarge- 

 ment. A small transverse fold was the only indication of an ileo- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 133 



csecal valve. As might have been expected on account of the large 

 and complex stomach, there was no well defined cfecum. It is an 

 interesting fact, however, that the peculiar glandular-like structure 

 in the cfBcal end of the colon of the Giraffe first described by Cob- 

 bold, should be present in the Hippopotamus. There was nothing 

 very peculiar about the pancreas or the spleen. The duct of the 

 former pierced the duodenum separately from the ductus choledo- 

 chus. The latter was closely bound to the greater curvature of 

 the stomach by a fold of peritoneum. The liver was a quadri- 

 lateral mass not subdivided to any extent into lobes. The gall 

 bladder was absent in the female ; in the male, however, it was 

 present and measured 6 inches long. 



On comparing m}^ observations with those of the anatomists 

 already referred to, I find, that while some of the descriptions 

 accord very well with mine, others diflTer considerably. Thus 

 Daubenton's description is very good, especially when it is remem- 

 bered that it is based upon the examination of a fcetus. His^ 

 figures give a very good idea of the relations of the four stomachs 

 when they are separated from each other by division of their con- 

 necting bands. Peters' ^ and Vrolik's^ accounts are very fair. 

 Unfortunatel}^, however, no figures are given. On the other hand, 

 I cannot say that the figure given hy Crisp ^ of the stomachs 

 illustrate the specimens examined by me. His descriptions, how- 

 ever, of the colic gland, spleen, liver and pancreas accord very 

 well with my observations. Clark ^ gives four figures, illustrating 

 the stomach described by him, that by Gratiolet, and of one pi'e- 

 served in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. The 

 figure of the latter gives a much better idea of the stomach 

 examined by me than either that of Clark's or Gratiolet's. Garrod ® 

 states that " he could find no confirmation of the peculiar position 

 of the diflferent parts described by Mr. J. W. Clark in his speci- 

 men." Possibly these differences observed in the stomach may 

 be due to age, sex, to the extent to which the different stomachs 

 had been separated, or to the amount of food that thej^ contained, 

 etc. As all of these conditions will influence greatly the form of 

 the organ, it need not occasion surprise that I find the accounts 



1 Op. cit., figs. 1 and 2, PI. IV. ^ Op. cit., p. 180. 



3 Op. cit., p. 240. * Op. cit., fig. 3, *p. 604. 



^ Op. cit., figs. 4, 5, 6, 7, p. 190. « Op. cit., p. 16. 




134 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [l^^l. 



somewhat discordant, without, however, intending to throw dis- 

 credit upon any of them. 



A Peccary having died at the Zoological Garden the same day 

 that the Hippopotamus arrived there, a favorable opportunity 

 presented itself of comparing the stomachs of the two animals. 

 While externally the stomach of the Peccary is not subdivided to 

 any great extent, internally through the elevation of the mucous 

 membrane into two ridges, three compartments, cardiac, middle 

 and p3'loric, may be distinguished. The cardiac portion further 

 subdivided at its termination into two blind pouches, opens into the 

 middle division of the stomach ; the latter receives the oesophagus 

 and communicates with the pyloric part. Conceive the ridges 

 and the cardiac pouches in the stomach of the Peccary greatly 

 enlarged and we would have the stomach of a small Hippopotamus. 

 On the other hand, diminish the first two stomachs of the Hippo- 

 potamus to mere blind pouches, at the same time increasing the 

 constriction between the third and fourth ones and we have, with- 

 out any stretching of the imagination, the stomach of the Manatee. 

 Beginning with the Pig the transition from that form of the 

 stomach through the Babyrussa ' to that of the Peccary is an easy 

 one. The latter again, leads to the Hippopotamus, which in turn 

 anticipates on the one hand the Manatee and on the other the 

 Ruminant type. 



Vascular System. — The circulation of the blood in the Hippo- 

 potamus was first studied by Gratiolet. The result of his careful 

 investigation was the subject of a special communication to the 

 Academy of Sciences, which appeared in the Comptes Rendus^^ 

 several years before the publication of his more general work by 

 Dr. Alix, A good account of the heart is also given by Crisp.^ 

 With the exception of the above accounts, little or no attention 

 seems to have been given to the study of the circulation by those 

 anatomists who have dissected the common variety of Hippopota- 

 mus, DaiibentoH ^ devoting merely a few lines to the heart, while 

 the later writers do not mention the circulation at all. Macalester ^ 

 mentions one or two peculiarities about the blood-vessels in the 

 Ch(]eropsis. Although I have nothing particularly to add to 

 •Gratiolet's excellent description, inasmuch as the subject of his 



1 Vrolik, op. cit., p. 240. ^ Tome 11, p. 524, 1860, 1867. 



3 Op. cit., p. 609. * Op. cit., p. 57. ^ Op. cit., p. 495. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OE PHILADELPHIA. 135 



dissection was onh^ a day old, it was important that the heart and 

 blood-vessels in a more fully developed animal should be examined 

 with reference to determining whether the circulation was in any 

 way modified by age. 



On opening the thorax of the animal it appeared to me that in 

 both sexes the heart was large in proportion to the size of the 

 animals. This is in a great measure due to the thickness of the 

 walls of the left ventricle. In the female Hippopotamus, which 

 was the first examined, I suspected this might be due to hj'per- 

 trophy, but finding it to be the case in the male also, perhaps 

 this is normal. The heart, in an empty condition, measured, 

 from base to apex, 9 Inches, and in circumference 14 inches. The 

 wall of the left ventricle measured 1 inch in thickness, that of the 

 right ^ of an inch. According to Gratiolet,^ the heart in the 

 young Hippopotamus terminates in two points, the ventricles 

 being separated by a little groove, reminding one of the form of 

 the heart in the Manatee and the Dugong. There was no indica- 

 tion of this groove in either of the Hippopotami examined by me. 

 With the exception of the absence of the corpora arantii on the 

 semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery and their very slight 

 development in those of the aorta I did not notice anj^thing 

 peculiar about the interior of the heart. The aorta gave off the 

 coronary arteries first, which were very large and then an innomi- 

 nate and the left subclavian. The innominate divided into the 

 right subclavian and a trunk which bifurcated into the two com- 

 mon carotids. The external carotid as well as the ascending 

 cervical and occipital arteries were all rather slender vessels in 

 proportion to the size of the head and neck. The external 

 carotid artery was very much larger than the internal. A pecu- 

 liarity about the external carotid artery of the Hippopotamus first 

 described by Gratiolet,^ I noticed m both the male and the female 

 animals, the fact of the vessel in its course towards the head 

 passing between the hyoid bone and the digastric and stylo-hyoid 

 muscles in such a manner that when the hyoid is elevated the 

 vessel is compressed against the bone by these muscles. The 

 effect of this disposition is that the blood is cut off" to a 

 great extent from the brain and head when the animal sinks 

 under water, the hyoid being elevated at such times. Gratiolet 



^ Recherches, p. 358, and Planche III. 

 2 Op. cit., p. 354. 




136 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



having shown that the external carotid through the sphenoidal 

 branch of its internal maxillary communicates with the carotid 

 rete mirabile, this sphenoidal branch in the Hippopotamus is as 

 large as the internal carotid and plays the part of an " anterior 

 internal carotid." In this connection I may say that it appeared 

 to me that the elevation of the hyoid bone would compress the 

 internal carotid arterj' as well as the external, the common carotid 

 bifurcating between the digastric muscle and the hyoid bone in my 

 specimens. The return of the venous blood to the heart from 

 the head, however, was not impeded in any way, the jugular veins 

 lying to the outside of the muscles which compressed the carotid 

 arteries. The superior mesenteric artery came off the aorta in 

 common with the coeliac, the inferior mesenteric separately. The 

 common trunk of the external and internal iliacs was short. I did 

 not notice any rete mirabile in the arteries of the body or extremi- 

 ties. In this respect the venous system, however, differed very 

 considerably from the arterial. I was struck with the large size 

 of the cutaneous and subcutaneous veins and of the many anasto- 

 moses between them, especially in the extremities, where numei'ous 

 rete exist. Another peculiarity about the venous system in the 

 Hippopotamus is the difference between the superior and inferior 

 vena cavae. The superior being very lai'ge and readily transmit- 

 ting the blood to the heart, whereas the inferior cava, at least that 

 part of it above the diaphragm, is rather small. According to 

 Macalester,^ in Choeropsis a left superior vena cava is partly 

 represented by a small vein. As Gratiolet first showed, there 

 is found in the walls of the vena cava above the diaphragm a cir- 

 cular band of muscular fibres which in contracting will entirely 

 or partially constrict the vessel. The effect of such action is that 

 the blood in the inferior cava is prevented returning to the heart. 

 The circular muscular band in the Hippopotami examined by me 

 was ^ an inch broad. Such a disposition of the vena cava is also 

 seen in the SeaP and in some other mammals which habitually 

 remain under water for a certain length of time.^ Below the 

 diaphragm the vena cava was very much dilated, while the open- 

 ings into it of the hepatic veins were enormous. It will be seen 

 from the above that while the venous blood readily returns from 



1 Op. cit., p. 495. 



2 Burrow, MuUer's Archiv, 1838. 



^ Mihie Edwards' Physiologie, Tome lit, p. 594. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 137 



the biain and cord and upper extremities to the heart, that from 

 the viscera and lower extremities can be entii'ely cut off from it, 

 welling back into the dilated cava and cutaneous veins, while 

 congestion of the brain can be prevented when the animal sinks 

 under water by the obliteration of the carotid arteries. In this 

 way paralysis of the respiratory centres of the brain and cord 

 through congestion is prevented, while the demand for fresh air 

 is diminished, so much blood being retained in the viscera and 

 lower extremities and so diverted from the lungs. Tliese pecu- 

 liarities in the vascular system of the Hippopotamus — taken 

 together with the disposition of the nares, larynx, etc., already 

 referred to, through which the air can be retained — accounts, 

 according to Gratiolet,' for the Hippopotamus being able to 

 remain under water for so long a time, from fifteen to even forty 

 minutes. 



Bert,- while admitting the force of Gratiolet's reasoning, attrib- 

 utes the power that many animals have of resisting for a long time 

 asphyxia, however produced, rather to the relative richness of blood 

 that is contained in their bodies ; the blood serving as a storehouse 

 or magazine for oxygen which cS,n be drawn upon when needed. 

 For example, Bert has shown that the blood of the duck is richer 

 than that of the chicken, and explains in this way that the duck 

 will live longer than the chicken, when both are asphj^xiated either 

 by submersion in water or by ligation of the trachea. It seems to 

 me, however, that the great quantity of blood present in those 

 mammals that are in the habit of remaining under the water any 

 length of time is an important element in the question. In open- 

 ing several sea-lions, Zalophus Gillespii, that have died at the 

 Zoological Garden, and different Cetacea, I have been alwa3^s im- 

 pressed with the enormous quantity of blood that literally ran out 

 of their bodies. In presenting a specimen of a Dolphin, Ddphi- 

 nus^ to the Academy, I called attention^ to the vast rete mirabile 

 formed by the intercostal arteries constituting the intercostal 

 gland of the older anatomists, and which is usually regarded as a 

 reservoir of arterialized oxygenated blood, to be drawn upon ac- 

 cording to the needs of the animal. If the blood of the seals and 

 cetaceans proves to be relatively richer than that of othei" mammals, 



1 Recherches, p. 363. 



- Physiologie comparie de la Respiration, p. 543. 



' Proceediugs of Academy, 1873, p. 279. 




138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



it would show that both the quality of the blood, as well as the 

 quantity, is important in enabling the animal to resist asphyxia. 

 Not only was the quantity of blood in the Hippopotamus very 

 great but the color in the arteries was very bright, more so than 

 is usual in mammalian blood. Further I found the blood cor- 

 puscles measured only the yg^oo of ^'^ ^^^ch in diameter, or more 

 strictl}^ the ^^^ of a millimetre — a Nachet eye-piece micrometer 

 being used. The blood of the Iliiipopotamus should be therefore 

 very rich in oxygen, as a corpuscle subdivided into a number of 

 small ones would expose a larger absorbing surface to the oxygen 

 respired than if undivided. This view is confirmatory of that of 

 Bert, just referred to. It must be admitted, however, that accord- 

 ing to the high authority of Gulliver, the blood corpuscle measures 

 the 34^2^ of an inch in the Hippopotamus. The fact of the Hip- 

 popotamus being able to remain under water would seem, therefore, 

 to depend upon the peculiarities of its vascular and respiratory 

 systems, and the great quantity and rich quality of its blood, the 

 structural relations being as important as the chemical. 



Genito-Urinari/ Apparatus. — In the different accounts of the 

 Hippopotamus that I have referred to, with the exception of that 

 of Gratiolet and of Clark, little or nothing is said of the genito- 

 urinary organs. Daubenton^ devotes a few lines to the descrip- 

 tion of the uterus and vagina, but his specimen, it will be remem- 

 bered, was only a foetus. Peters ^ merely alludes to the mammae, 

 the penis, etc. In Crisp's^ specimen, which was a male, the parts 

 were destroyed to such an extent as rendered detailed dissection 

 impossible. The account in Gratiolet's ^ work is really, I presume, 

 due to Dr. Alix, as that anatomist tells us in the preface,'' the 

 death of a young Hippopotamus born at the Jardin des Plantes a 

 few days previously, gave him the opportunity of adding some 

 details to the dissections left by Gratiolet. Alix's description 

 of the parts, which is an account of both sexes, is excellent, but 

 unfortunately is unaccompanied by any illustrations. Clark's^ 

 figure of the uterus and vagina is imperfect, but his description is 

 very clear. It is to be regretted that Garrod ^ says nothing of the 

 genito-urinary organs of the male animal examined by him. It 



1 Op. cit , p. 58. 2 Op. cit., p. 181. ^ Op. cit., 608. 



* Op. cit., p. 396. 5 Op. cit., p. vi. « Op. cit., p. 195. 



' Op. cit. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 139 



will be seen from the aboA^e that the genito-urinaiy apparatus in 

 the male Hippopotamus have not been figured, and that of the 

 female onl}^ imperfectl}' so, while the description of Alix is based 

 on very young animals, and that of Clark is limited to the female 

 sex. I trust that the following brief description of the parts as 

 I found them in the male and female, with the accompanying 

 figures will sufficiently illustrate what is wanting in the accounts 

 hitherto given of the animal. 



Genito- TJjnnary Organs in Male. — The kidneys, k (Plate XIV), 

 measured five inches in length and were distinctly lobulated. 

 About ten of these lobules could be counted on each face. The 

 ureters were 7 inches in length, and opened into the bladder at 

 the angles of the trigonum vesicfe. The bladder, 6, from the 

 highest point to the verumontanum in the middle line measured 

 9 inches. There was no sign of a prostate gland or utriculus. 

 On each side, however, of the middle line below the verumontanum 

 a number of little follicles could be observed. The Cowperian 

 glands, c, on the other hand, are xevy large, being almost an inch 

 in diameter ; the main duct was well developed and opened into 

 the urethra an inch below the gland. A considerable amount of a 

 viscous humor could be squeezed out of the gland and duct. The 

 muscular fibres covering the gland no doubt produce this effect in 

 contracting. The distance from the verumontanum to the orifices 

 of the Cowper's ducts measured four inches. The orifices of the 

 ducts were concealed by a little fold of mucous membrane. Under 

 this fold the membrane was thrown into delicate transverse ridges. 

 The mucous membrane of the membranous portion of the urethra 

 was thrown into longitudinal folds. The urethra from the open- 

 ings of Cowper's ducts to its termination in the glans measured 

 12 inches. There was nothing exceptional in reference to the 

 corpus spongiosum or the corpora cavernosa. The penis meas- 

 ured in circumference 2 inches. The ischio cavernous and bulbo 

 urethral muscles were well developed. The sj-mmetricall}' disposed 

 retractor muscles, etc., of the penis arising from the posterior 

 surface of the rectum pass to the bulbous portion of the urethra, 

 where, becoming tendinous, they are continued side b}' side to the 

 base of the glans into which they are inserted. The glans itself 

 measured in circumference b\ inches, and when eA'erted presents 

 a veiy peculiar appearance, it being then thrown into a rosette 

 which consists of folds arranged somewhat like the leaves of a 




140 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



book. The testicles, t, were found in the inguinal canal, midway 



between the internal and external abdominal rings. There was a 



free communication between the cavity of the peritoneum and 



that of the tunica vaginalis testis. The cremaster muscle was 



well developed, and arose, as usual, from the internal oblique and 



transversalis muscles. The testicle itself measured 2^ inches. 



The vas deferens, v, measured 18 inches from the epididymis to 



the point where it is joined by the duct of the seminal vesicle. 



The latter was about an inch in length, but not much developed. 



The ejaculatory ducts open into the urethra at the verumontanum. 



Genito- Urinary Organs in Female. — The ovai-y, o (Plate XV), 



in the Hippopotamus is elongated and flattened, measuring an 



inch in length and f of an inch in breadth. The Fallopian tube,/, 



8 inches long and ^ of an inch wide, pursues quite a flexuous 



course towards the cornua of the uterus, cu, into which it opens 



by a very small aperture. The pavilion, p, while not fringed, 



consists of a series of folds radiating from the central opening. 



The latter readily admitted a bristle. The cornua of the uterus, cu, 



measured 6^ inches in length and | of an inch in breadth. For the 



last two inches of their course the cornua run alongside of each 



other, and are apparently fused together, though internall}^ they 



are seen to be still quite distinct. Finally, each cornu opens by a 



wide mouth into a common cavity, which probably represents the 



body of the uterus. While the mucous membrane of the cornua 



is thrown into longitudinal folds, that of the body of the uterus is 



smooth. What is usually regarded as uterus is very small, 



measuring only ^ an inch in length and 1;^ inches in width. It 



appears to me, however, that this space represents only a part of 



the uterus ; the bod}'^ and that which has been heretofore described 



as vagina, is really an elongated cervix uteri ; this measures 6 



inches in length and 1 inch in width. Its mucous membrane was 



elevated into seventeen folds, c, which are situated transversely 



to the long axis of the vagina, and which resemble valvulfe conni- 



ventes. These folds, on an average, were | of an inch in breadth 



and I inch in height, and are subdivided by indentations. Every 



other fold, however, alternates in reference to the part where it 



was most developed. Thus, the first, third, fifth folds, etc., were 



thickest in the middle, fading away at the sides into the walls of 



the vagina, whereas the second, fourth and sixth folds, etc., were 



thickest at the sides of the vagina, fading away towards the middle. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 141 



These folds are disposed in rather a spiral manner, and are so 

 Olosely set together and developed that the cavit};' of the tube is 

 almost obliterated. It is difficult, indeed, to conceive how the 

 penis can introduce itself if this is the vagina, the rugosities being 

 capable of otfering great resistance. The folds, however, gradu- 

 all}^ fade away, and in the lower four inches of the genital tube 

 the mucous membrane is smooth or slightly folded longitudinally. 

 It is this part of the tube which appears to me is the vagina. It 

 opens into the genito-urinary vestibule by a distinct aperture, 

 through which a probe was passed without difficulty. According 

 to Gratiolet,^ thie vagina was imperforate. The female urethra, 6, 

 is about an inch long, and is closely connected with the lower 

 part of the vagina, the openings of the two tubes into the genito- 

 urinary vestibule being situated almost next to each other. Just 

 in front of the opening of the vagina a ridge is seen, and on either 

 side of this ridge there ai'e two small sinuses in which the orifices 

 of the vulvar vaginal glands open. Externally, the vulva appears as 

 a circular fleshj^mass, 14 inches in circumference, surrounding and 

 leading into the genito-urinary vestibule. There is no appearance 

 of external or internal labia, and a perinseum can hardly be said to 

 exist, the rectum lying directly against the vulva. Within the 

 vestibule there is quite a large sinus, s (next to the rectum). 

 There was nothing particularly noticeable about the clitoris, cl, 

 except that the prepuce was very well developed. 



The female generative apparatus of the Hippopotamus is in 

 every respect essentially like that of the Peccary, the only differ- 

 ence being in the relative size of what I have described as the 

 body and neck of the uterus. The bod}'- of the uterus in the 

 Peccary being relatively larger than the cervix. The peculiar 

 disposition of the mucous membrane in folds is seen in the cervix 

 of both animals. It is with some diffidence that I have ventured 

 to consider as cervix the part of the genital tube usually described 

 as vagina, for anatomists, even in the Peccary, consider the rugose 

 portion of the tube to be the vagina. Clark ^ seems, however, to have 

 the same opinion as expressed by me, as to the homology of the 

 parts. The two teats were situated in the inguinal region, and 

 although the mammary gland was but little developed externally, 

 on section the milk-ducts could be easilj^ recognized. 



' Op. cit., p. 401. 



^ Compare op. cit., p. 195. 




142 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



Brain. — When the study of the structure of an animal is limited 

 to the investigation of its adult condition, without any reference 

 to its mode of development or regard to its natural affinities with 

 closely allied or even remote species, much will be found obscure, 

 or even entirely unintelligible in its organization. The study 

 of the brain is no exception to this general rule. Comparative 

 anatomy and embryology are, indeed, the lamps which throw light 

 upon the darkness of cerebral structure. Taking advantage of 

 the methods cultivated with such success bv Owen,^ Leuret- and 

 Gratiolet, Kreug,^ etc., let us begin our study of the brain of the 

 Hippopotamus by first considering, as suggested by Garrod,* so 

 far as is known, the general type of the artiodactyle brain, and 

 then ascertaining the amount of deviation from the type exhibited 

 in the brain of the different genera. Studied in this wa}', the brain 

 of the Hippopotamus will prove far more interesting and instruc- 

 tive than if merely described topographically. 



According to Kreug the simplest kind of ungulate brain is to 



be seen in the embryo of the Sheep, Ovis aries. Figs. 1, 2, 3, give 

 diagrammatically surface, side and mesial views of the hemisphere 

 of the same. On looking at the surface view (fig. 1), there will 

 be observed to the right of the great longitudinal fissure the 

 coronal fissure, co, anteriorly, and the lateral, I, posteriori}^, and 

 towards the side the supra-sylvian, ss, fissure with its anterior, 

 ascending, descending, and posterior branches. In addition to 

 these fissures may be seen upon the side view (fig. 2), the sylvian 

 fissure, sac, running transversely into the rhinal fissures, rh, 

 the diagonal, d, and the postica, p. The calloso marginal, sp, 



1 Com. Anati of Vertebrates, vol. iii, p. 115. 

 ^ Anatomie Comparee du Systeme Nerveux. 

 ^ Zeit. fiir wiss. Zoologie, Leipzig, 1878. Band 31. 

 * Op. cit., p. 12. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 143 



genial, g, and liippocampal, h, are seen on the mesial surface 

 (fig. .3). Let us suppose, now, that that the calloso marginal from 

 the mesial surface and the ascending branch of the supra-sylvian 

 blend with the coronal and that at the same time, while the des- 

 cending branch of the supra-sylvian lengthens, the posterior limit 

 shortens, we shall transform the typical ungulate brain into that 

 of the Pig, Sus scrofa. On the other hand, should the posterior 

 branch of the supra-sylvian lengthen while the descending branch 

 shortens, the result will be the brain of the Cotylophora. The 

 Peccary, Dicotyles, dilfers from the Pig in that the calloso mar- 

 ginal only joins the coronal, and that often at least, the des- 

 cending branch of the supra-sylvian is wanting. In most of the 

 Cervidffi the ascending limit of the supra-s^dvian runs into coronal. 

 From this brief resume it will be seen that fundamentall}^ the 

 brain is constructed on the same pattern in the Pig, Peccary, Sheep, 

 Camel, Giraffe, Deer, etc. 



Let us now try to show that the brain of the Hippopotamus 

 does not essentially differ from the tj^picai ungulate brain to a 

 greater extent than that of the animals just referred to. The 

 most striking feature of the brain of the Hippopotamus, viewed 

 from its upper surface, is the deep fissure, I co (PL XVI), that 

 runs from the posterior to the anterior part of the brain, and 

 rather in an oblique direction, being situated nearer the great 

 longitudinal fissure anteriorly than posteriorly. This fissure 

 serves to divide the upper surface of the hemisphere into two 

 parts, very much as the interparietal fissure does in man ; compared 

 with the type of the ungulate brain, this fissure is evidently due, 

 as suggested by Garrod,^ to the lateral and coronal fissures running 

 into eacli other, wliich I find they almost do in the Camel, Giraffe, 

 Deer and Ox. On the right side of the Hippopotamus' brain 

 examined by me, this fissure runs farther forward than on the 

 left. In the ungulate brain there are usually found between the 

 lateral fissure, that is, the posterior part of the fissure just de- 

 scribed, and the great longitudinal fissure, one or two secondary 

 longitudinal fissures. On the left side of the brain in the Hippo- 

 potamus a secondary longitudinal fissure may be seen, extending 

 forward to about the usual extent, but on the right side this, m I 

 (PL XY I), runs forward anteriorly until it passes between the coro- 

 nal and the great longitudinal fissures. In this respect my specimen 



^ Op. cit., p. 15. 




144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



differs from that figured by Garrod.' In the brains of the Llama 

 and Giraffe these secondary longitudinal fissures are often found 

 both anteriorly' and posteriorly, and are almost continuous with 

 each other ; on the other hand, in the brain of the Peccary used 

 by me for comparison, the secondar}- longitudinal fissure, usually 

 found posteriorly, is absent. The sylvian fissure in my Hippo- 

 potamus is quite evident, and within it I noticed a rudimentary 

 island of Reil. This fissure on the right side differs from that de- 

 scribed by Garrod, in that it is quite distinct from the Rhinal 

 fissure, there is, however, posteriorly a little connecting branch 

 between the two. I identified, as Garrod,^ on the left side of the 

 brain the supra-sylvian fissure with its branches, but these were 

 not well matched on the right side. On the mesial surface the 

 calloso marginal sent up a fissure which nearly reached the latiro 

 coronal and terminated in the genial. 



As is usuall}' the case in the artiodactyle, there was a secondary 

 fissure between the corpus callosum and the calloso marginal. 

 The minor convolutions of the brain of the Hippopotamus are not 

 very numerous. Indeed, the brain is much less convulated than 

 those of the Giraffe, Llama, or even the Peccary, used by me for 

 comparison ; in the general form of its hemispheres the brain of 

 the Hippopotamus resembled that of the Giraffe ; the cerebellum, 

 however, differed from that of the Giraffe, Peccary, and other 

 artiodactyles in that its largest diameter was transverse, whereas, 

 in the animals just mentioned, the largest diameter of the cere- 

 bellum was antero posterior ; the latter, however, seems to be the 

 case in the young Hippopotamus, at least judging from Gratio- 

 let's 3 figure. In the adult the cerebellum resembled more that of 

 the Manatee than that of the Artiodactyle. As the desoiption 

 and figures of the brain of the Hippopotamus given by Gratiolet ^ 

 and Garrod * are limited to the surface, it appeared to me ver}' 

 desirable that the interior of the ventricle should be exposed and 

 figured. On making the section, I found a septum lucidum. The 

 lateral ventricle was very large, recalling to my mind that of the 

 Manatee, dissected by me some years since. According to Macal- 

 ester's figure the ventricle is also large in Choeropsis. The general 



1 Op. cit., Plate III, fig. 1. ^ Qp. cit., Plate IV, fig. 3. 



3 Op. cit., fig. 2, PI. XII. * Op. cit.,. p, 317, PI. XII. 



5 Op. cit., p. U, figs. 1, 2, PI. 3; figs. 1, 2, 3, PI. 4. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 145 



appearance and size of the corpus striatum, .s, taenia, thalamus 

 opticus, 0, and hippocampus major, when compared side b}^ side 

 with the corresponding parts of the Manatee, resembled these 

 more than the}' did those of the Giraffe, Llama, Peccar3\ etc. Of 

 the corpora quadrigemina in the Hippopotamus, the testes, ^, 

 were broader than the nates, n, and less rounded in shape. ^ 



If the above description of the brain of the Hippopotamus be 

 correct, it follows that the general form of its hemispheres, the 

 arrangement of its fissures, etc., deviate but little from the t3'pical 

 ungulate brain, while the capaciousness of its ventricles, the form 

 of its basal ganglia, and the cerebellum, resemble rather those of 

 the brain of the Manatee. 



Sweat Glands. — As is well known, when the Hippopotamus 

 comes out of the water there exudes from tlie slcin a pinkish, 

 reddish secretion, which quicldy dries up and does not reappear 

 until the animal comes out of the water again. This secretion 

 has probably given rise to the name blood-sweating Behemoth, 

 bj'^ wliich the Hippopotamus is often known among showmen. 

 This secretion was first examined by Tomes, ^ who stated that it 

 consisted of a transparent fluid containing colorless and red- 

 colored corpuscles, the color of the secretion being due to the 

 solution of the latter. Crisp ^ examined and figured the glands 

 supposed to produce this secretion. It will be remembered that 

 his specimen was burnt to death, and it was to be expected, there- 

 fore, that the skin was affected. For this reason I requested that 

 admirable microscopist, Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt, to examine the skin 

 of my Hippopotamus, and I give his result in his own words : 



" I put in a camera lucida slietch of the blood-gland (fig. 4) 

 of the Hippopotamus magnified 25 diameters. It has no limiting 

 membrane, but bioplasts or nuclei of the usual apparent form 

 make up the entire gland. In the centre these gland-cells are loosely 

 arranged, thus allowing the contents to escape, perhaps, like com- 

 mon sweat glands do, in which, similarly, there is no external or 

 internal membrane." 



The contents of the gland-cells loosel}' arranged in tiie centre 

 are probabl}" the corpuscle, the solution of which, according to 



^ Peters gives in Moiiatsberichte of Berlin Acad., 1854, a brief description 

 of the brain of the Hippopotamus, but unfortunately not ilhistrated. 

 2 Proc. Zool. Soc. of London, 1850. 

 ■^ Op. cit., p. 603. 

 11 




14G 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



Tomes, gives rise to the color. The length of the blood gland 

 measured -^^ of an inch, in width the :^^ of an inch, the length'of 



the duct -^Q of an inch. 

 In many parts of the skin 

 these glands are absent, 

 and when present are situ- 

 ated about the ^^ of an 

 inch below the surface, 



A most striking feature 

 in the skin of the Hippo- 

 potamus is the great de- 

 velopment of the fibrous 

 tissue of the corium. This 

 is disposed in great bands, 

 which are so interwoven 

 with each other as to give 

 the appearance of a fabric. 

 Rejections. — In conclu- 

 ding these observations, 

 it may not appear super- 

 fluous to briefly consider 

 what appears to me to be 

 the natural affinities of the Hippopotamus with the Ungulata or 

 other mammalia. In observing the Manatee that lived for several 

 months in the Philadelphia Zoological Garden, the manner in 

 which it rose to the surface of the water to breathe reminded me 

 often of the Hippopotami that I watched in the Zoological 

 Garden of London and the Jardin des Plantes in Paris. The 

 slow way in which the animals rise to the surface, the motionless 

 pose of the almost sunken body, the nostrils often just appearing 

 at the surface, etc., are very much alike in both animals. In 

 speaking of the alimentary canal, I called attention to the stomach 

 of the Manatee representing the stomach of the Hippopotamus in 

 an atrophied condition, while, on the other hand, the stomach of 

 the Hippopotamus is intermediate between the Peccary and the 

 Ruminants. As regards the heart, it will be remembered, that in 

 the 3"oung Hippopotamus, at least, it is bifid, resembling in tliis 

 respect that of the Manatee. The female generative apparatus of 

 the Peccary and Hippopotamus are almost identical. Again, the 

 sexual vesicles are found iai both Hippopotamus and Manatee. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 141 



While the placenta does not appear to me to have the importance 

 attached to it by some authors as a guide in determining the 

 affinities of animals, it is proper to mention in this connection that 

 according to Milne Edwards^ and Garrod^ the placenta of the 

 Hippopotamus is diffuse and appears to be non-deciduous, and such 

 is the case, according to Harting,^ in the Dugong,* and therefore 

 in the Manatee, probably, for as a matter of fact the placentation 

 of the Manatee is unknown. 



While the brain of the Hippopotamus appears to be a modifi- 

 cation of a type common to the Pig, Peccary, Sheep, Ox, Giraffe, 

 etc., it has also, it seems to me, affinities with that of the Manatee. 

 In a word, then, beginning with the Pig, we pass by an easy transi- 

 tion to the Peccar}^, which leads to the Hippopotamus, and thence, 

 in diverging lines, to the Ruminautia on the one hand, and the 

 Manatee on the other. Paleontologists have not discovered a 

 form which bridges over the gap between the Hippopotamus and 

 the Manatee, but it will be remembered that certain fossil bones, 

 considei'ed by Cuvier^ to have belonged to an extinct species of 

 Hippopotamus, H. medius, are regarded by Gei'V'ais" as the remains 

 of the Halitherium fossile, a.n extinct Sirenean, of which order the 

 Manatee is a living representative. According to Prof. Owen,^ 

 the molar teeth also, both in the Halitherium, and the Felsino- 

 therium,^ another Sirenean, are constructed on the same pattern 



1 Physiologie, Tome 9, p. 56. 



2 Proceed. Zool. Soc, 1873, p. 821. 



■■' Tijdschrift der Nederlandsche Dlerkundige Vereenigung, Deel iv, 1879, 

 p. 1. 



* Dr. Hartung, in his very valuable paper on the placenta of the Dugong, 

 just refeiTed to, describes and figures bodies attached to the blood-vessels 

 resernbling. apparently, very much those of the placenta of the Elephant. 

 His figure (7) shows that the cavity of the vessel communicates with that 

 of the body attached to it. Dr. Harting inquires whether such is the case 

 in the Elephant. I will state in reply, that neither Dr. J. Gibbons Hunt 

 nor myself found any such continuity between the vessel and body in the 

 placenta of the Elephant, These oval bodies in the Elephant are not sacs 

 or cavities, the little branches from the main vessel only ramify through 

 their substance. There seem?, then, to be an essential difference between 

 the oval bodies in the placenta of the Elephant and in that of the Dugong. 



^ Ossemens Fossiles, II, p. 492. 

 ^ Paleontologie Francaise, p. 143. 

 " Geological Magazine, 1875, p. 423. 



* De Zigno, Sopra un nuovo suienio fossile. Reale Acad, dei Lincei, 

 1877-78. 




148 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



as those of the Hippopotamus. It is proper to mention, however, 

 that the same distinguished observer considers the teeth of the 

 Manatee and the Prorastomus^ another extinct Sirenean, to be 

 rather allied to those of the Tapir and Lophiodon, but this quali- 

 fication does not really invalidate the supposed affinities between 

 the Sirenea and the Hippopotamus. For the Artiodactyla and 

 Perisodactyla are probably offshoots of a common stock, and 

 hence we may expect to find in these two groups certain characters 

 common to both, inherited from their Lophiodon and Ooryphiodon- 

 like ancestors. The affinities of the teeth of the Manatee with 

 those of the Tapir — the first an embryonic Artiodactyle, the 

 second a generalized Perisodactyle — would be examples of the 

 above view. I do not mean to imply that the Manatee has neces- 

 sarily descended directly from the Hippopotamus, though extinct 

 intermediate forms may in the future show this to be so, for 

 possibly they may be the descendants of a common ancestor. To 

 many such speculations may appear mere waste of time, we being 

 unable, from the nature of the case, to experimentally prove or 

 disprove the truth of the hypothesis advanced. It seems to me, 

 however, that the only explanation of the structure of the living 

 forms and of the petrified remains of the animals referred to in 

 these observations is the hypothesis of there being some generic 

 connection between them. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 149 



June 14. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-one persons present. 



A paper entited " Notes on the Tertiary Geology of the South- 

 ern United States," by Angelo Heilprin, was presented for pub- 

 lication. 



The death of Baron Maximilien de Chaudoir, a correspondent, 

 was announced. 



Some new Genera of Fresh Water Sponges — Mr. E. Potts re- 

 ferred to a recent paper by H. J. Carter, F. R. S., (Ann. Mag. 

 Nat. Hist., Feb. 1881,) entitled, " The History and Classification 

 of the Known Species of SjMngilla,^^ in which the writer has dis- 

 tributed the species, heretofore grouped under one generic title, 

 among five genera, founded upon the differences in form and ar- 

 rangement of the spiculse surrounding the statospheres. He 

 spoke of the arrangement as a timely step well taken in ad- 

 vance, in the history of this branch of the animal kingdom. 



He believed that the characteristics of the statospheres and 

 their spiculaB were those which furnished the only reliable dis- 

 tinctions among fresli water sponges ; but the recent discovery of 

 novel forms in American waters had already required an increase 

 in the number of genera and seemed to make it desirable to 

 modif}^ the terms of some of those already established. 



In illustration he referred to several forms observed in this 

 neighborhood, resembling in many points the English Spongilla 

 lacustris, (taken as a type of the genus Spongilla in the new ar- 

 rangement), in which, however, the spiculae were not acerate, but 

 irregular in shape ; were not placed " tangentially " upon the 

 surface ; or were altogether wanting. Specific names were suggested 

 for these, but were held under ad\'isenient, awaiting a decision as 

 to whether it would be better to create new genera for them or to 

 enlarge the scope of those alread}^ defined b^^ Dr. Carter. 



The two new genera already decided upon were then described. 

 Under the generic head Ileyenia, Dr. Carter has grouped those 

 species, in which the statosphere is surrounded b}^ birotulate 

 spiculae, radiateh' arranged ; one disk resting upon the surface. 

 Throughout the genus as alread^y constituted, the shafts of these 

 spicules are of a nearly uniform length ; and the outer disks nearly 

 or quite touching at their edges give the appearance of a second 

 coat to the statosphere. In two species, however, observed 

 by Mr. Potts last summer, this uniform series was broken by 

 another, of about double their length, much fewer in number, 

 somewhat regularly arranged, interspersed among them. He 




150 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



proposed to group these under the genus Heteromeyeina, as H. 

 argyroypertna and H. 7-tpens: suggesting that the latter may pos- 

 sibly be the same as Bowerbank's Sf^wgiUa. now Jfeyejiia Bailei/i. 



Another nevr genus had been formed and dedicated to Dr. 

 Carter under the" name Carterella. to include the singular form 

 described by the sjvaker last \-ear in the Proceedings of the Acad- 

 emy, and then called Spongilla tentoifperma : changed later to 

 S. tenosperma. The distinguishing peculiarity of this genus is 

 that the tube surrovmding the foramen of the statosphere is 

 elonirated and diyides into :2-5 long, curling or t\nsted tendrils by 

 means of which during the winter the statosphere remains attached 

 to the stems or rootS upon which the sponge had grown. This 

 will now be Carterella tenosperma. 



A. second species has been added to this genus, the discoyery 

 of Professor Kellicott and Mr. Henry MUls. of Buffalo, under the 

 n.ame of Carterella tubisp>erma. In this, the tube is much longer 

 than in any sponge heretofore described, terminating in seyeral 

 strag:gling^ rather weak tentacles much shorter than in the former 

 species. The birotulate spicul* in the two forms are quite differ- 

 ent, and the species are unquestionably distinct. 



JuN-B -21. 

 The President. Dr. Ruschexbergee. in the chair. 

 Nineteen persons present. 



JrxE 28. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberges, in the chair. 



Fifteen persons present. 



Jerome Gray was elected a member. 



M. S. Bebb, of Rockport, 111., and Chas. S. Sargent, of Brook- 

 line. Mass.. were elected correspondents. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



151 



N0TE3 ON THE TERTIARY GEOLOGY OF THE SOUTHERN UNITED STATES. 

 BY ANOELO HEILPRIN. 



In the following notes the author makes no pretense at unravel- 

 ling the many knotty points connected with the Tertiary geology 

 of the southern United States; he has merely brought together 

 such facts, old and new, and certain conclusions drawn from these 

 facts, as may possibly serve to facilitate the inquiry into this as 

 yet imperfectly known branch of American geological history. It 

 is with this view of rendering the material treating of the subject 

 more accessible to the working geologist that some of the pub- 

 lished sections are here reproduced. 



A convenient starting-point in Eocene stratigraphy is afforded 

 by the famous bluff exposed on the Alabama River near Claiborne, 

 Ala., and which has yielded the fossils known to geologists and 

 paleontologists as those characteristic of the " Claiborne Group." 



Section of Claiborne Bluff. — Probably the most trustworthy 

 section of this bluff is that afforded by Tuomey (" First Biennial 

 Report of the Geology of Alabama," 1850, p. 152), as follows : 



Note. —Tuomey does not give the thickness of bed "(Z," but it appears 

 from the concurrent statements of different observers to be about 17 feet. 

 The total height of the bluff above the Alabama River would therefore 

 appear to be in the neighborhood of 190 feet. 




152 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



The measurements and descriptions of Conrad (" Fossil Shells 

 of the Tertiary- Formations," 1833, p 32 ; Proceedings of the 

 National Institution, 1841. p. It4), Hale ("Geology of South 

 Alabama," American Journal of Science, new ser., YI, p. 354), 

 and Lyell (Journal of the Geological Society, lY, p. 10, et seq.) 

 do not differ very essentially from the data given by Tuomey. 

 The arenaceous bed " rf," about 80 feet above water level, has 

 ^aelded the vast majority of the fossils for which the locality is 

 famous, and is that which has been identified as the equivalent of 

 the " Calcaire Grossier " (Upper Eocene) of France (et conseq., 

 Bruxellian of Belgium, and Bartonian of England). To what 

 extent the deposits either below or above this bed can be cor- 

 related with the remaining deposits of the Paris or London series 

 has not yet been determined ; nor has it yet been conclusively 

 shown what exact portion of the American Eocene formation is 

 represented in this Claiborne exposure. Although formerly con- 

 sidered to be near the base of the system, there are now verj^ 

 strong grounds for concluding that these beds are underlaid bj' 

 older Eocene strata having a thickness of at least 200 feet, and 

 possibly even much more. The age of the limestone bed " e," 

 although perhaps the character of its contained fossils does not 

 permit absolute determination, is in all probabilit^y Jacksonian — 

 at least in part — and will doubtless be found to correspond with a 

 portion of tlie bluff exposed at St. Stephen's on the Tombigbee 

 River, about thirty miles almost due west of Claiborne. At any 

 rate, a portion of the white, or so-called "rotten" limestone im- 

 mediately west of Claiborne has been found to contain several of 

 the characteristic fossils of the Jackson group, and these asso- 

 ciated with the remains of Zeuglodon ; there is, therefore, no 

 doubt as to the age of at least this portion of the white limestone, 

 nor can there be any reasonable doubt as to the continuity existing 

 between these deposits and the similar ones exposed on Claiborne 

 bluff. 



Section on Bashia Creek, Clarke Co., Ala. — Probably the section 

 representing the oldest Eocene deposits of the State of Alabama 

 is that exposed on Bashia Creek, Clarke Co., and detailed by 

 Toumey in his report on the geology of the State (First Biennial 

 report, p. 145) : 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



153 



Note. — Beds 5 and 6 do not properly belong to the section, but "repre- 

 sent beds seen on another part of the stream below the preceding ' ' (Tuo- 

 mey, loc. cit,, p. 146). 



Beds corresponding to J^o. " 2 " of the above section are like- 

 wise exposed on Cave and Knight's branches, tributaries of 

 Bashia Creek, and have been shown b^' Dr. Eugene A. Smith to 

 underly the base of the " Buhrstone " proper by nearly (if not 

 more than) 200 feet (Heilprin, " Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences of 

 Philadelphia," 1881, p. 369). The relations of these various beds 

 will be best understood by a reference to the sections exposed on 

 the Tombigbee River. 



Sections on the Tombigbee Biver. — At Wood's Bluflf, near the 

 mouth of Bashia Creek, we have the following exposure : ^ 



^ I am indebted to the kindness of Dr. Eugene A. Smith, State Geologist 

 of Alabama, for the use of this heretofore unpublished section. 




lo4 VHOOKKlMNiiS OF TllK AOAPKMY OP [ISSl. 



IhhI No. i of the invcoiiing- sootiou is oonsidercil by Pr. Smith 

 to bo most closely rehited in the ohnriieter of its fossil remains to 

 the fossiliferons strata exi^osed on Cave and Knight's branches, 

 and it is therotiMv not unlikely that the series l-o corresponds in 

 the main \Yith No. - of Tuomey 's Bashia section. The basal lignite 

 would then probably be found to underly the lowest stratum 

 exhibited at the Bluti* (Heilpriii, loc. cit., p. 3ti7-S\ Bed No. 6 

 (Wood's Blutf section "i can be traced down the river for a distance 

 of two to three miles, when it dips beneath the water's level. 

 Somewhat below this point, and beyond the mouth of Witch 

 Creek, the stratigraphieal relation of the dili'erent beds is beauti- 

 fully exhibited in a prominent clitl i^" White Blutf "^, rising from 

 250 to 275 feet above the river. The upper portion of this blutl" 

 is constituted by the characteristic siliceous clay-stones and silici- 

 fied shell deposits of the southern '' Buhrstone " formation, which 

 make up fully 100 feet of the vertical height. Laminated lignitic 

 clays (bearing numerous leaf impressions), with occasional inter- 

 calated beds of pure lignite, enter mairly into the composition of 

 the intermediate portion, /. e., from the water's level to the base 

 of the buhrstone above mentioned. Allowing a uniform southerly 

 dip of 10 feet to the mile, which appears to be consistent with 

 obtained data, it is manifest that at this point the lower fossiliferons 

 strata exposed at Wood's Blutf (and consequently, the equivalent 

 deposits on Bashia Creek and its tributaries. Cave and Knight's 

 branches) must lie from 175 to 200 feet below the base of the 

 siliceous mass constituting the true buhrstone ; or, in other words. 

 we have here a series of deposits aggregating about 300 feet in 

 thickness, which can be shown to be of an age anterior to the deposi- 

 tions of the Claiborne fossiliferons sands. At Baker's Blutf, a fcAv 

 miles above St. Stephen's (which is situated about twenty-eight 

 miles south of Wood's Bluif ). the buhrstone, according to Tuomej', 

 appears in a vertical escarpment rising only 50 feet above the 

 water, a low height perfectly in accordance with the loss occa- 

 sioned by the general dip extending over nearly twenty miles. 

 At this point, moreover, and occupying a position above the 

 buhrstone. Tuomey yloc. ej7.,p. 14S) identities a bed of green sand 

 (8 feet in thickness) as the equivalent of the Claiborne fossilifer- 

 ons sands " d " of his section), and containing numerous fossils 

 identical with those foimd at Claiborne. Still further south, and 

 occupying a considerably lower level, the same bed is described 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 1.55 



as having an extent of 12 feet, and immediately above St. Ste- 

 phen's, was seen to dip beneath the water's edge. At this last 

 locality we have a beautiful exhibit of what has generally been 

 designated by the name of" White Limestone."' 



There can be not the least doubt, however, that this " White 

 Limestone," which has most frequently been taken to represent 

 strata of Yicksburg age, is in reality, as has been insisted upon by 

 Winchell (Proceedings of the American Association, 1850, Part 11, 

 p. 85), a combination of strata belonging to two distinct (at least, 

 as now recognized) groups of deposits. The lower moiety, 

 dipping into the river, and resting upon the subjacent Claiborne 

 sands ' Tuorne}', loc. cit., p. 157 ; Lyell, Journal Cieol. Soc, Lon- 

 don, IV, p. 15 ; Hale, A. J. Science, new ser., VI, p. 359; is the 

 true " White Limestone," an exponent of the Jacksonian group 

 of deposits, as may be inferred from its position, and the charac- 

 ter of its contained fossils,^ Moreover, were it otherwise the 

 case, it would have been very dilficult to explain the total disap- 

 pearance over a distance of only thirty miles (and with but ex- 

 ceedingly moderate dip) of the equivalent beds exposed on the 

 Alabama River at Claiborne. The upper moiety, on the other 

 hand, is a portion of the well known Orbitoide (Vicksburg or 

 Oligocene) rock, and is that which alone contains specimens of 

 Orhitoides Mantelli (Winchell, loc. cit., p. 85). 



From the data herewith presented, a section of tiie Tertiary 

 strata traced along the Tombighee River from Wood's Bluff to 

 St. Stephen's, may probably, with considerable approach to truth, 

 be constructed as follows : 



' I have been unable to discover the exact height of this bluff. Neither 

 Lyell nor Toumey mentions it ; Conrad, in the appendix to Morton's " .'Sy- 

 nopsis" (p. 23), states it is about 100 feet, 



■•' Spondylus dumosus and Oitrea panda, originally described aB charac- 

 teristic fossils of the Newer Cretaceous (upper Eocene) deposits of the 

 southern United States, have been found abundantly near the base of the 

 bluff. 




156 



PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



1^ 



I 





^ 



ca 



8 , 





^ 

 ^ 



^ 

 ^ 



^ 



*--• 



w 



M 



A 

 ^ 



K«*9><9«(N 



m if* 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 157 



An examination of the foregoing section shows almost conclu- 

 siveh' that the Eocene deposits of Alabama have a thickness of 

 very nearly 400 feet; and, indeed, I am informed by Dr. Smith 

 that there are good grounds for supposing that Tertiar}^ beds 

 exist in the northern part of the State, wliose position would be 

 still 150-180 feet below the Wood's Bluff marl bed. It will fur- 

 ther be seen that the Claibomian (or Claiborne proper, as chai'ac- 

 terized by the fossiliferous greensands) holds a position decidedly 

 near the top of the series, a position almost preciscl}' similar to 

 that occupied by the " Calcaire Grossier " (Parisian) of France, 

 and more properly Upper than Middle Eocene, which last it has 

 verj'' generallj^ been considered. What relation beds •• b " and» 

 " c " of the Claiborne Bluff holds to the sub-Claibornian (•' Buhr- 

 stone " in part) deposits of the Tombigbee River has not yet been 

 absolutely determined ; but there can probably be no legitimate 

 doubts that they represent, in a modified form, the upper 

 moiety of those deposits. Although the marked difference in 

 the lithological character of the strata of the two localities as 

 compared with each other (and indeed it must be confessed, this 

 is much greater than could have been reasonably inferred from 

 the genera] constancy of the deposits in this region) would seem 

 to militate against such a view, there is, nevertheless, sufficient 

 evidence, both stratigraphical and paleontological, to support this 

 conclusion. In the first place, by determining the position of the 

 buhrstone rock near St. Stephen's as immediatel}'' underl3'ing 

 the highly fossiliferous greensand laj-er, Tuomej^ has proved that 

 the two series of deposits (the Buhrstone on the Tombigbee, and 

 bed " c " on the Alabama) hold relatively the same position to 

 the true Claibomian, lying immediately below it. In the second 

 place, the argillaceous sti'ata at the base of Claiborne Bluff (bed 

 " 4 " of Hale's series) have been identified by Hale, both on litho- 

 logical and paleontological evidence (A. J. Science, new ser., YI, 

 p. 356), as occurring at Coffeeville Landing on the Tombigbee 

 River, about 14 miles north of St. Stephen's, what miglit very 

 readil}' have been expected from an inspection of the general la}' 

 of the different formations.^ Xo data are given relative to 



^ A line uniting Claiborne and Coffeeville Landing would mn almost 

 precisely parallel with the line marking the junction of the Cretaceous 

 and Tertiary deposits lying hence due north. The contour lines traced by 

 Tuomey would indicate a true dip west of the southerly line, and that this 




158 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



the position of the Buhrstone at this last locality, but hypotheti- 

 cally considered (as deduced from its position at White Bluff, 

 and its general dip), its summit must still occupy a position fully 

 100 feet above the level of the river ; and this thickness (100 feet) 

 coincides very closely with the thickness (80 to 90 feet) of the 

 deposits below the true Claibornian (bed " d ") as exposed at the 

 bluff on Alabama River. And finally, that at least a very con- 

 siderable portion of the inferior beds at this last named locality 

 represent strata of a different lithological character in other por- 

 tions of the state— and consequently, that they are local deposits — 

 is proved by the concurrent statements of Hale (loc. cit., p. 356) 

 and Wincliell {loc. cit.^ p. 86), both of whom assert that the cal- 

 careous deposit below the arenaceous bed (not the " White Lime- 

 stone ") is not known to occur at any other locality.^ 



Admitting the conclusions reached in this paper, it will be seen 

 that the Alabama Eocene deposits comprise : — 



4. " White Limestone " (Jacksonian), best exhibited at Claiborne 

 (upper portion of bluff) and St. Stephen's (lower moiety of 

 bluff), not ver}- abundant in fossils — Pecten membranosus, P. 



Poulsoni^ Ostrea panda.^ Spondylus dumosus, " Scutella " 

 Lyelli, etc 50 — ? feet. 



3. The fossiliferous arenaceous deposit (Claibornian), best shown 

 at Claiborne — subaqueous at St. Stephen's — very rich in 

 fossils, and of the age of the " Calcaire Grossier " of France 

 — n feet. 



2. " Buhrstone " (Siliceous Claiborne of Hilgard), comprising 

 siliceous clay-stones (buhrstone proper) densely charged 

 with fossils or their impressions, laminated clays, sands and 

 calcareous deposits — beds " h " and " c " of the Claiborne 

 section, the cliff at White Bluff, and the so-called " Chalk 



is actually the case is proved by the difference (80-90 feet) betweeu the 

 actual heights at which the equivalent beds at St. Stephen's and Claiborne 

 are placed. This also accords with Hilgard' s observations in Mississippi, 

 where the dip of the Jackson and Vicksburg strata was found to be about 

 10 to 12 feet per mile S. by W. (A, J. Science, new ser., XLIII, p. 36). 



^ It is greatly to be hoped that under the present able management of 

 Dr. Smith, the survey will be able to yield much more satisfactory data 

 connected with the geology of the State than have heretofore been 

 rendered. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 159 



Hills " of the southern part of the State. At Claiborne the 

 representative beds consist of aluminous and calcareous 

 deposits, poor in fossils, but containing occasional layers of 

 Ostrea sellseformis — about 250 feet? 



1. The Wood's Bluff and Bashia (with Cave and Knight's 

 Branches) deposits (Eo-lignitic), consisting of alternating 

 dark claj'S, greenish and buff sands, and numerous seams of 

 lignite, partlj^ very rich in fossils, and as far as is yet poni- 

 tively known, the oldest Tertiary- deposits of the State — 50 

 — ? feet.i 



It is the intention of the writer to discuss in a future paper the 

 relations of these various Alabama deposits to those of other 

 sections of the United States, and to correlate them, as far as 

 possible, with the Eocene deposits of the typical European basins. 



^ It appears to the author that it would be convenient to designate these 

 lower deposits, which hold a rather constant position at the base of the 

 Eocene series in different parts of the eastern and southern United States, 

 by a tenn which could be readily applied in adjective form, and which 

 would at the same time in some manner express the relation of the beds 

 referred to. He therefore proposes the term "Eo-lignitic,'' which, while 

 it to some extent indicates the general character of the beds so designated, 

 is not restricted in its definition to the character of the deposits of any one 

 single locality. The " Buff Sand" of Wincbell {loc. cit., p. 89), probably 

 falls into this group, but its exact position, or its correspondent, does not 

 appear to be as yet definitely determined. It is seen to underly the 

 "Buhrstone," and is considered by Winchell to represent the absolute 

 base of the Tertiary system of the State. At Black's Bluff, Wilcox Co., 

 it is stated to repose directly on the subjacent Cretaceous limestone, but in 

 a foot-note (p. 90), we are informed that, according to Tuomey, the 

 characteristic fossil of this limestone, an Ostreeiy is probably Tertiary. 




160 proceedings of the academy of [1881. 



July 5. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberoer, in the chair. 



Seventeen persons present. 



A paper entitled, " The Snare of the Ray Spider, Epeira radi- 

 osa, a new form of Orb-weh," by Rev. H. C McCook, D. D., was 

 presented for publication. 



Sarcodes sanguinea. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to discus- 

 sion among members at former meetings, as to the true character 

 of parasitic plants. They were believed to be in the main of two 

 classes,— one which might be represented by the common mistle- 

 toe, with woody stems continuing from year to j^ear, — the other 

 like the Arceuthobium, or pine parasite, which died to the surface 

 of the wood, but continued to grow up from the same spot every 

 year — a sort of parasitic herbaceous plant. It was a question 

 how far root parasites partook of these several characters. There 

 were some plants, as Caslilleia and Gomandra^ which might be 

 said to be in a transition state between an ordinar}' terrestrial 

 plant and a parasite. Usually they were as other plants, but some 

 of the roots would attach themselves to other roots, and form as 

 perfect a union as genuine parasites, and, by the decline in vigor 

 of the victim root beyond the point of union, evidently showed 

 they were really parasitic, deriving nourishment from the attach- 

 ment. Aphyllon unijiorum, germinated on the annual fibrous 

 roots of Asters and Solidagoes, as had been clearly traced, and 

 perhaps on other plants ; and after germination formed a mass of 

 innumerable coral-like spougelets, drawing moisture and perhaps 

 some other elements of nutrition from the surrounding medium. 

 Epiphegus Virgi7iiana behaved precisely in the same way. Mono- 

 tropaa\\d others had also this mass of pseudo-roots, or spongelets, 

 and had been supposed to germinate and live wholly on half de- 

 cayed vegetation, but he believed from analogy they would be 

 found, as in Epiphegus and others, to germinate at first on living 

 roots. Conopholis was the only root parasite he had found any 

 reason for believing to be a perennial. This had been found at- 

 tached to quite large roots, evidently coming up from the same 

 spot from year to year as Arceuthobium does. 



Having correspondents in regions where grows the beautiful 

 Snow-plant of the Sierras — Sarcodes sanguinea. — about which 

 nothing but its aerial character has been so far known, he had set 

 them to watching for him, their appearance and final end. The 

 places wliere they grew were carefully marked, and with the fol- 

 lowing results : — Mr. John M. Hutchings, of Yosemite, found the 

 bottom of the old plants 10 to 14 inches below the surface, with 

 not the slightest signs of attachment an} where. To him it ap- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 161 



peared no more than an "ordinary annual plant of great beauty." 

 Of course an ordinary annual growing from seed, could not push 

 through the ground at so great a depth. The vital power spent 

 in overcoming so heavy an obstruction, would lie exhausted long 

 before the growing point pushed through a foot of soil to the sur- 

 face, as observing seed growers of experience would testify. Only 

 a parasite, or bud, having an unlimited supply of food to di'aw on 

 could accomplish this feat. But the matter was settled by an- 

 other observer, Mrs. Ross Lewers, of Washoe Valley, Nevada, 

 who, together with her observations, had sent the dead spongy 

 mass from the last 3'ear's plants, which Mr. M. exhibited, and these 

 were found to have a slender pine root through the mass around 

 which the spongy mass had grown, and as it was dead, there was 

 little doubt that it had been the matrix from which the seed had 

 made its original start, and which the plant killed in the end. The 

 dead, spongy mass of pseudo-roots was larger than he had seen in 

 any other species of root parasite. Altogether it might be said 

 that Sarcodes sanguinea was an annual, germinating on small pine 

 roots, and subsequently obtaining subsistence from the earth as 

 Aphyllon. Epiphegus, &c. 



Talinum teretifolium. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 the point he made recentl}' in regard to Draba ve7'na, that mere 

 light alone evidentl}' failed to account for the special opening-time 

 of flowers, was confirmed by recent observations on Talinum 

 teretifolium. When preparing the chapter on tliis plant for his 

 "Native Flowers and Ferns of the United States," a few years 

 ago, he had watched plants almost daily through the whole season 

 and found that without any exception they opened at 1 P. M. and 

 closed at 2. This season he had watched them again and found 

 that though the time of opening was the same, 1 p. m., they never 

 on any occasion noted, closed at 2, but continued open sometimes 

 to half-past three or half-past four, and on one occasion were found 

 closing at half-past five. Mr. Meehan said he had endeavored to 

 associate these variations with some atmospheric changes, such as 

 heat, light, or moisture, but in no case did these endeavors prove 

 satisfactory. In the " Proceedings of the Kansas Academy of 

 Science," Professor Smyth had contributed materials for a "floral 

 clock" for Kansas, and Talinum teretifolium was set down in 

 the list as opening at 11 a. m. in that State. 



Mr. Meehan believed that the laws influencing this peculiar 

 class of motion in flowers, were completely hidden from us, and 

 that the subject ofl^ered an inviting field to the biologist. 



Mr. Redfield suggested that perhaps the age of the plants made 

 some difference in their habits. 



Mr. Meehan replied that the patch in his garden was much 

 larger now than at first, from addition through self sown seeds ; 

 but all the plants behaved precisely alike. He did not suppose 



12 




162 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



that external circumstances had no influence ; but that the con- 

 dition of the living material on which they acted, decided the final 

 character, and that Mr. Redfield's question was in the right line. 



July 12. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Ten persons present. 



The death of John P. Brock and of Alfred D. Jessup, members, 

 was announced. 



The following was ordered to be printed : — 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



163 



THE SNARE OF THE RAY SPIDER (EPEIRA RADIOSA), A NEW FORM OF 



ORB- WEB. 



By Henry C. McCook, D. D. 



In the vicinity of Philadelphia, June 14, 1881, 1 found a number 

 ■of spiders grouped not far from each other on Epeiroid webs, which 

 proved to be of a type hitherto unknown, and which I designate 

 as the Actinic or Raj'-formed Orb-web. The spider appears also 

 to be new to science, and is named Ej^eira radiosa.^ 



I. Character of the Web. 



The first example or two of the spiders collected seemed to be 

 upon nests that had been broken by ordinarj^ wear and tear in 



FiQ. 1.— The Ray Spider seated in her snare, just before drawing the trap-line. 



capturing insects ; bat the repetition of the form in a third snare, 

 particularly of the peculiar open central, caused more careful 

 examination. The result was the discovery of the remarkable 



^ Radiosa, full of rays. A closer study of the spider may compel the 

 change of its generic position. 




164 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



form of web hci-e described. On account of the continually 

 changing form of the snare, it will be necessary to present it from 

 various points of view, and as seen in different stages of its diurnal 

 changes. 



Fig. 1 presents a view of the snare in a partially relaxed con- 

 dition. The spider is seen seated in the centre of a series of rays, 

 i, ii, iii, iv, v, which are grasped by the third and fourth pairs of 

 legs. There is no hub, properly speaking, but the axes of the 

 rays may be seen at times united upon a central point, as at H, 

 fig. 2. The general tendency is to four or five main divisions or 



Fro. 2. 



rays, as ma}' be seen by studying the figures presented. But 

 there is more or less variation, and in the course of the day's 

 usage in capturing prey two sections will become interblended 

 upon one axis, as appears to be the case in fig. 2, and also in fig. 4. 

 The central space is a lai'ge irregular opening, constituting 

 about one-third of the entire snare, whose diameter is usually from 

 three to five inches (see fig. 3). The central circle, meshes, and 

 notched spirals which so generally characterize the Orb-webs are 

 thus wholly wanting here. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



165 



The orb ma}' be said to be composed of a series of independent 

 rays or sectors, each ray composed of several spirall}' crossed 

 radii, and the whole series united into an orl) by cross-lines or 

 spirals like those which unite the radii. In the shifting of the 

 section-lines above referred to, this separation of the orb into in- 

 dependent rays, is always quite evident. The spirals are covered 

 with viscid beads, as in most orb-webs The radii do not all 

 pass to the Hub or Centre, as do those of orb-webs generally, but 

 converge for the most part upon the axes of the rays as repre- 

 sented at figs. 1, 2, 3. These axes themselves converge upon a 



Fig. 5.— View from front. "Web taut. Perspective not t^liown . Central opening exact. 



single strong thread, a trap-line, T ( figs. 1 and 2, and succeeding 

 cuts), which is attached to some part of the surrounding surface, 

 of rock, earth or plant. When the snare is flat or relaxed, as was 

 the case with the one drawn at fig. 2, and as appears in fig. 1, the 

 trap-line is often about perpendicular to the plane of the orb, as is 

 the handle to the Ta.ys of an open Japanese umbrella. This, how- 

 ever, depends somewhat upon the environment ; a convenient 

 point for the attachment of the trap-line will cause the animal to 

 divert the thread more or less from the perpendicular. 




166 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



We may now suppose the spider placed as in figs. 1 and 3, at 

 the point where the rays converge, grasping the axes with the four 

 hind feet. The two front feet seize the trap-line and draw it taut. 

 Then, precisely as a sailor pulls upon a rope, " hand over hand," 

 the little arachnid's feet move along the trap-line, one over another. 

 The axes of the ra^- s, held firmly in the hind feet, follow her ; the 

 centre of the snare bears inward, the other parts are stretched taut, 

 and the web at last has taken the form of a cone or funnel (figs. 4, 5). 

 In this position the snares continually suggested to me the figure 

 of an umbrella with ribs reversed by the wind and the covering 



Fig. 4.— Side view of Kay Spider's snare, when drawn taut or bowed. Seen within 



a cavity. 



stripped loose from the top of the handle. Fig. 4 gives a side 

 view of the web when thus bowed or drawn taut ; another snare 

 is shown at fig. 5, as seen from behind. 



In this example (fig. 5), the spider has moved quite down the 

 trap-line to the surface of the little twig (projecting into the 

 cavity) to which it is attached. It will thus be seen that the 

 snare is more or less a plane surface, or more or less conical, 

 according to the position of the animal upon the trap-line and the 

 degree of tension thereof. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



16T 



II. Mode of Operating the Snare. 



When an insect strikes the snare, the spider has two modes of 

 operating. The first somewhat resembles that of the ordinary 

 orb-weaver in that the insect is simply permitted to entangle itself 

 and is then taken, swathed, returned to the centre and eaten. 

 There is, however, this difference : before going to the insect, the 

 axes of the snare are twisted or knotted, by a rotary action of the 

 body and movement of the legs, so that the untouched parts of 

 the orb remains taut. Fig. 2 represents a snare thus " locked,"' 



Fig. 5. 

 or, perhaps I might more properly say, " keyed." The trap-line 

 is now relaxed, although its elasticity is such that the change can 

 scarcely be noticed. The spider then moves upon her victim, 

 quite habitually cutting out the spirals with her mandibles as she 

 goes. When the insect is ensnared well towards the circumference 

 of the web, and indeed, for the most part, in other cases also, it 

 results that the ray or sector upon which the entanglement had 

 occurred, is quite cut awaJ^ The spider thereupon proceeds to 

 operate the remaining parts of her snare, which, in time, is thus 

 destroyed by sections, as will be fully illustrated hereafter. 




168 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



The second mode of operation resembles that of the Triangle 

 spider, Ilyptiotes cavata^ Ilentz, which has been so admirably 

 described by Wilder, and which I have very frequently and fully 

 observed in the suburbs of Philadelphia and throughout Pennsyl- 

 vania. It is at this point that the habit of our Ra}^ spider becomes 

 particularly interesting. The Triangle spider makes a triangular 

 web, which is in fact an orb sector, composed with unvarying 

 regularit}' of four spirally crossed radii converging upon a single 

 line T (fig. 6, a). Upon this line the spider hangs back downward, 

 grasping it with all her feet, and having a portion of the line, SI 

 (fig. 6, b), rolled up slack, between her two hind, or sometimes, 



Fig. 6.— Triangle spider hanging upon taut snare, a, Spider in position. SI, Ball ol 

 slack-line, b, Enlarged figure of spider, showing the mode of grasping the line. 



apparently, her fore and hind feet. Thus the forward and back 

 parts of the trap-line are taut, while the intermediate part is slack. 

 The spiral parts of the snare are also taut. When the web is 

 struck by an insect, the spider suddenly releases her hind feet, 

 the slack line sharply uncoils, the spider shoots forward, the whole 

 web relaxes, as at fig. T, and the spiral lines are thrown around 

 the insect. This is repeated several times before the prey is 

 seized. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



169 



Precisely the same action characterizes the Ra}^ spider. Her 

 ordinary position, or at least the one in which I most frequently 

 observed her, is a sitting posture, back upward, as shown at fig. 1. 

 The axes of the rays are held in the third and fourth pairs of legs, 

 the fourth commanding the upper, the third the lower series, 

 quite habituall^^, as it appeared to me. A sort of " basket," or 

 sj'stem of connecting lines, shown at figs. 1, 9, unites all the feet, 

 seeming to converge toward the fore-feet (perhaps, upon the second 

 pair), where they grasp the trap-line. It is upon this foot- 

 basket that the spider sits when her net is bowed. 



This, however, is not the invariable posture ; in the reconstruc- 

 tion of the raj^s and shifting of the axes, as the day's work tells 



Fig. 7,— Triangle spider, Hyptiotes cavaia, with slacli-line uncoiled and snare relaxed. 



upon the snare, the spider will A^ary her posture to that of fig. 5. 

 The trap-line generall}- has a direction downward rather than 

 upward, so that the head and fore-feet tend to be depressed below 

 the abdomen, and this depression may gradually result in the 

 complete inversion of the animal, fig, 5, so that she assumes the 

 natural position of orb-weavers. I have even seen individuals 

 with the back turned downward, fig. 8, as is the habit with the 

 Triangle spider and with all those species who make a dome or 

 horizontal orb-web, as the Basilica spider, E. basilica McCook, 

 and the Orchard spider, E. hortorum Hentz. 



If now the feet of the spider be careful I3' examined with a good 

 glass, a coil of slack-line will be seen, precisely as in the case of 

 the Triangle-si^ider. This is illustrated at fig. 8, where a, b, c, are 

 the axes of several rays, grasped in the third (3) and fourth (4) 




i 



170 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [188L 



pairs of legs, and SI is the coil or slack-line between these and the 

 fore pairs (1 and 2), or simply between the pair of fore-legs, 1 and 

 2. As the spider does not exceed one-eighth of an inch in body 

 length, and the position of the snare is within cavities and inter- 

 stices of rocks, where the light does not bring out the delicate 

 tracery of the fine webs, the observation of these and other points 

 of like character, is a matter of some difficulty. But, although 

 the exact relations of the coil to the feet were sometimes in doubt, 



and indeed seemed to vary somewhat, 

 the existence of the coil and its general 

 relations were determined beyond doubt. 

 It is also certain that the slack-line 

 sharply uncoils and straightens when 

 the spider releases her grasp upon the 

 trap-line, and that the web unbends and 

 shoots quickly forward. It is instantly 

 changed from the bowed or conical form 



of figs. 4 and 5 to the circular plane of 

 FIG 8 -Ray spider (greatly ea- ^ ^ ^^^ ^ 

 larged) in position on taut snare. ° 

 To show the slack-line coil, SI. The following points, howcvcr, long 



evaded my observation, before webs 

 were found which presented the conditions for successful study. 

 But at last I was well satisfied, although I hope for further and 

 fuller verification during, the present summer. The " springing " 

 of the snare is caused by the sudden releasing of the trap-line 

 from the fore-feet^ instead of the hind-feet, as with the Triangle 

 spider. The polarity of the two arachnids relative to their webs 

 is reversed, Hyptiotes having her fore-feet, but Radiosa her hind- 

 feet towards the web. The slack-line is therefore coiled between 

 the two fore-feet or between the fore and hind-feet of Radiosa, 

 but between the two hind pairs (as a rule) of Hyptiotes. 



A glance at fig. 6, b, will suggest the manner in which Hj'ptiotes 

 is affected when her two hind feet are released from the trap-line. 

 The coil, SI, straightens, and the whole body of the spider shoots 

 forward. If now we turn to Radiosa, as represented at fig. 8, or 

 again, as shown somewhat better at fig. 9, we observe that if the 

 fore-feet ,1,2, fig. 9, are released suddenly from the trap-line, T, 

 the whole body shoots backward, although still toward the snare, 

 as with Hyptiotes. This was the action which I observed. 



The determination was finally accomplished by first carefully 




1881.] 



xVATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 



171 



sketching the arrangement of the basket stretched between the 

 feet (2, 3, 3, 4, 4, fig. 9). With this chart in one hand, and in the 

 other hand a magnifying glass focused upon the feet, I watched 

 until favored with several successive and unsuccessful springings 

 of the net. As the spider only leaves her seat when she thinks 

 that an insect is well entangled, and again bows her net by pulling 

 on the trap-line if no prey be ensnared, the above conditions en- 

 abled me to compare my chart of the basket, with the basket itself 

 as seen under the glass. I found that the outlines on the paper 

 and the lines under the animal's feet exactly corresponded. There 

 had therefore been no change in the relative positions of the hind- 

 feet, mandibles and palps, perhaps also of the second pair (2) of 



feet. There had been an ac- 

 tual (not seeming) motion of 

 the body with and in the di- 

 rection of the web, and this 

 had been caused by releasing 

 the first pair of legs (1) from 

 the trap-line. 



The importance of this 

 determination seems greater 

 from the fact that I had at first 

 concluded that the Radiosa 

 actually operated her snare 

 by sections. That is, instead 

 of springing the whole orb at 

 once, as above described, she 

 simply sprung the ray struck by an insect, by unclasping the foot 

 holding the axis of that ra3^ Thus, ray ii, fig. 9, would be sprung 

 by releasing the axis of ii, from No. 3, the third foot. This 

 is probabl}'' not done when the snare is in complete form (as 

 at figs. 1, 3, 4), but I now believe that it is done when the web 

 has been partially destroyed, and is reduced to two rays or sectors 

 as at fig. 11. This I hope to determine accurately during the 

 current summer. If it should be verified we shall have another 

 resemblance between the habits of Hyptiotes and Radiosa. 



Fig. 9. — Kay spider in position showing slack 

 coll SI, and fout-basket, 2, 3, 4. 



III. Gradual Obliteration of the Web. 



The fragmentary condition of Radiosa's web after contact with 

 insects has already been referred to. The snare is gradually 




172 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



obliterated, a conclusion to which the spider herself very curiously 

 contributes. When an insect strikes the snare, as at fig. 10, ray 

 I (broken ray), Radiosa first " keys " the snare by twisting 

 together the foot-basket and the parts adjoining (C), including 

 the end of the trap-line. This maintains the compact condition 

 of the snare after the spider has left the central point at which 

 she has held all parts together in the manner heretofore described. 

 Then the insect is sought. Creeping along the axis of the ray 

 upon which is the entanglement, she cuts away the cross-lines as 

 she goes, leaving the bare skeleton of radii, as shown, fig. 10, I, 

 broken ray. The insect is then brought back to a point (D) near 

 the centre, but (in this case at least,) above it, where it is eaten. 



While the feast goes on, not 

 unmindful of future supplies, 

 the spider (S) clasps the ad- 

 joining axis and (C D) the 

 connecting lines, which appear 

 to be in condition for operating 

 somewhat in the usual way. 

 When the insect is eaten, the 

 former position is resumed, 

 the trap-line clasped, and the 

 net bowed and tightened. 



After a morning's trapping, 

 if the game has been plenty, 

 and generally towards the 



Fig, 10.— Kay spider. Action when an insect middle of the aftemOOn, Ra- 

 is taken. S, Spider; In, insect. t- i ■^^ -i x> ^ 



diosa's snare will be found 

 reduced to one or two rays or fragments of rays. I have seen it 

 reduced to a bare skeleton. In fig. 11, there are one ray (I), and 

 two fragments of two others united into a new ray, and these are 

 placed in opposite parts of the orb. Again, one-half of the orb 

 maybe eliminated (fig. 12), leaving two radii (i, ii) to operate with. 

 Radiosa was also observed to construct or adopt a new trap- 

 line, thus changing, so to speak, her base of operations. This 

 action is illustrated at fig. 12, where Ta is the original, and T6 

 the new trap-line. This is not a frequent occurrence, as the 

 necessity' for changing the original line does not appear to arise 

 frequently. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



175 



lY. The Affinities of the Actinic Orb with other Orb Webs. 



Not the least interesting and valuable feature of the Ray- 

 spider's industry, is that it discovers a connecting link between 

 two forms of snare which stand at the very opposite poles of the 

 spinning-work of the (Orbitelarise) orb-weavers. At the one ex- 

 treme is the familiar circular snare or full orb of the ordinary 

 garden spider, as, for example, that of Epeira domiciliorum, 

 Hentz, fig. 13. At the other is the orb-sector of the Triangle 

 spider, figs. 6, 1. A glance at these will show how far they are 

 apart in structure. The same separation appears in the habits of 

 the two araneads.^ As opposed to the Hyptiotes, the spiders of 

 which E. domiciliorum is a type hang head downward in the 



Fig. 11. — Ray spider's snare 

 after usage in taking prey. 



Fig. 12.— Ray spider. Half of 

 orb eliminated and a new trap- 

 line, Tb, formed. 



centre of the orb, with their feet grasping small groups of the 

 radii ; or sit in a silken den, or crevice, holding to a taut trap-line 

 which is connected with the centre. There is no slack coil, and 

 no springing of the net as with the Triangle spider. 



The industry of Radiosa, it is now seen, is united to that of the 

 Full Orb makers (E . domiciliorum, et al.), on the one extreme, by 

 the completeness of the circle; but with that of Hyptiotes, on the 

 other extreme, by the independent character of the rays, the 

 nature of the trap-line, and the entire mode of operating the snare. 

 The facts necessary to trace their affinities I have already given. 



^ I hope that I shall be tolerated in the invention of this general word 

 for members of the Order Aranese ; "Arachnid," the class term, is too 

 general ; "aranead" is needed for the true spiders. 




n4 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF 



[1881. 



Some of the striking differences I have also recorded, and they may 

 thus be summarized. The web of Hyptiotes is a single sector ; that 

 of Radiosa has four or more, united. Hyptiotes commands one 

 line with her feet, the trap-line and its continuation ; Radiosa 

 commands several axes, which are connected with, but not con- 

 tinuous of, the trap-line. Hyptiotes has her head, Radiosa her 

 abdomen towards her snare. Hyptiotes habitually hangs to the 

 trap-line, back downward ; Radiosa generally sits upon a foot- 

 basket of lines, back upward. Hyptiotes shoots forward when 

 her net is sprung ; Radiosa shoots backward — but both spiders 

 move toward their webs. Hyptiotes holds her slack coil between 

 the two hind-feet (apparently) ; Radiosa between the fore-feet. 

 In these differences, the points wherein Radiosa varies from 



Fig. 1j.— Full-Orb snare of Epeira domiciilorum. 



Hyptiotes show a quite apparent approach to the behavior of E. 

 domiciilorum and the Full-Orb makers. Thus the distance which 

 heretofore had separated between the far-away extremes of the 

 spinning-work of the Orbitelarise, has been completely bridged 

 over by the industry of our little indigenous aranead — the Ra}' 

 spider. It is to be remarked that while structurally^ the Triangle 




1881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 115 



spider is as widely removed from the Domicile spider, as economi- 

 cally, the Ray spider is more closely allied structurally to the 

 latter than the former. 



V. Natural Habitat and Environment. 



The first specimens of Radiosa taken were hung in large open- 

 ings left between the breastwork stones of a very old mill-dam. 

 The wall had crumbled and quite fallen away in places, leaving 

 large cavities, within whose moist, cool shelter, among ferns and 

 mosses, this, with several species of spiders, had domiciled. The 

 brook poured over the middle part of the wall, making a pretty 

 waterfall ; briers, bushes, ferns and various wood plants grew out 

 of the wall and stretched over a deep pool 12 or 15 feet in diame- 

 ter, into which the fall dropped. On the lower bushes and 

 branches above the stream, and continually agitated bj^ the 

 splashing of the water, was a colony of Stilt spiders, Tefragnatha 

 grallator^ stretching their long legs along their round webs, and 

 dancing with the motion of the waves ; the beautiful nests of 

 Phillyra riparia^ Hentz, nests of Tegenaria persica^ Lyniphia 

 communis, L. neophyta, Epeira hortorum, and one or two species 

 of Theridiords, were in close neighborhood. The whole pretty 

 scene was embowered in a grove of young trees. A more charm- 

 ing habitat could not well have been found. 



Another colony, not far awaj', was established within the cavi- 

 ties formed underneath the roots of a large fallen tree, and 

 beneath the ledges of some rocks over which the roots turned. 

 In several similar positions were found the same nests, and also 

 among the rocks in a wild ravine through which ran the stream 

 Lownes' Run.^ 



Further explorations of the surrounding country showed that 

 the spider was largel^^ distributed, and in similar conditions. I 

 found numbers in ravines, on the broad leaves of the skunk cab- 

 bage, Symplocarpus (or Ichtodes) fcetidus, the snares stretched 

 over the brooklet, and beneath the shelving banks. They were 

 also found among the rocks of Crum Creek over the beautiful 

 drive to Howard Lewis' mill. The habitat of the Ray spider may 

 therefore be described as moist, cool, shaded cavities and recesses 

 among rocks, roots, beneath banks and foliage, over or near run- 

 ning water. 



^ Since writing the above I have found Radiosa in similar environment 

 at Mineral-spring Glen, New Lisbon, Ohio. 




176 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



July 19. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twelve persons present. 



A paper entitled " A Revision of the Cis-Mississippi Tertiary 

 Pectens of the United States," by Angelo Heilprin, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 



July 26. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twelve persons present. 



A New Form of Fresh-ivater Sponge. — A note was read from 

 Mr. Edw. Potts, reporting the discovery in Chester Creek of 

 another curious form of fresh-water sponge, a third species of 

 Carterella, resembling C. titbisperma in the character of its 

 birotulates and the length of its foraminal tubes, but much more 

 robust than that species. The tendrils are nearly as long as those 

 of C. tenosperyna, but broad, flat and ribband-like. 



Thus far it is the most conspicuous and peculiar of our Ameri- 

 can forms. He proposed for it the name Carte7'ella latitenta. 



John Gr. Graham was elected a member. 

 The following was ordered to be printed : 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. H*? 



REVISION OF THE PALJSOCRINOIDEA. 

 BY CHARLES WACHSMUTH AND FRANK SPRINGER. 



Part II. 

 Family SPH^ROIDOCRINID^, 



INCLUDING THE SUB-FAMILIES 



PLATYCRINID^, RHODOCRINID^, and ACTINO- 

 CRINID^. 



The first part of this work was published contemporaneously 

 with the " 3d Lieferimg " of Professor Zittel's " Handbuch der 

 Palaeontologie," which embraces the Crinoidea. 



In his classification, this distinguished author follows Johannes 

 Miiller, and divides the Crinoidea into three orders : Eucrinoidea 

 {Brachiata^W\\\\Q\-)^ Gyst'oidea, and Blastoidea ; subdiA'iding the 

 first into the Tesselata, Articulata, and Costata. The " Tesselata " 

 agree in general features with our PalseocrinoideajeLnd the Articu- 

 lata with the mesozoic and recent Crinoids, for which we have 

 proposed the name Stomatocrinoidea ; but while we treat these 

 groups as of the same rank with the Blastoidea and Cystoidea, 

 they are, according to Miiller and Zittel, mere subdivisions of the 

 '' Brachiata:'^ 



Zittel divides the Tesselata into twentj'-six families, among 



1 While this was in press, we received from Dr. Etheridge, Jr., and 

 P. Herb. Carpenter, an intei-esting paper upon the genus AUagccrmus, a 

 new form from the Carboniferous of Scotland, which they consider to be 

 "tesselate" in the younger, "articulate" in the adult state. In a dis- 

 cussion upon Miiller's terms, Tesselata and Artieulata, they arrive at the 

 conclusion, that at the present state of our knowledge of these Crinoids 

 those names are inappropriate and should be abandoned. They adopt our 

 name Palceocrinoidea, but object to Stomatocrinoidea, as they think it 

 possible, that also Crinoids of the other group might have possessed an 

 external mouth. They consider the irregular an-angement of the plates in 

 the calyx, against the almost perfect symmetry which is found throughout 

 the other group, and the vault structure, to be better and more persistent 

 characters for distinction than the condition of the mouth. We can only 

 notice here this important paper, but shall take pleasure to refer to it at 

 some future time. 

 13 




178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



which his Ichthyocrinidae and Taxocrinidse substantially agree 

 with our Ichthyocrinidae, except that he included among the Taxo- 

 crinidii^ the genera Lecythocrinus and Gissocrinus^ wliicli we 

 refer to the Cyathocrinidai. Our Cyathocrinidae include his 

 Poteriocrinidae, Heterocrinida?, Cyathocrinidae and Hybocrinidae, 

 except that he places among the first of these families, Agassizo- 

 crinus and Belemnocrinus^vf\\\c\i we think belong to other families. 



Zittel's classification, in its general results and conclusions, 

 does not differ materially from our own ; but instead of subdividing 

 the Palaeocrinoidea at once into a number of small groups which 

 he calls families, we separate them at first into comparatively few 

 well-marked groups, which we subdivide when necessar3^ Our 

 families are not based upon mere differences in the arrangement 

 of the plates, but are expressions of important modifications in 

 the structure of the animal, which must have affected the whole 

 organism, and consequently form the basis of well defined natural 

 divisions. 



The groups which we recognize as Ichthyocrinidae, Cyatho- 

 crinidae and Sphaeroidocrinidae existed at the beginning of the 

 geological record, and flourished side by side until they became 

 extinct. They are so well defined by nature, that once under- 

 stood there is no difficulty in identifjang them. The smaller 

 groups into which we have divided the Sphaeroidocrinidae, are 

 likewise of early origin, but they follow more or less the same 

 general plan in the arrangement of their plates, as well as in their 

 mode of development, individually and paleontologically. 



There haA^e been several interesting publications on Crinoids 

 during the past 3'ear, containing, among others, descriptions of 

 new species of both Ichthyocrinidae and Cj^athoerinidae. These 

 species will be noticed and systematically arranged in an appendix 

 at the end of this work. 



We are under special obligations to Prof. Spencer F. Baird for 

 access to a number of rare and valuable books in the Smithsonian 

 Library; to Dr. C. A. White, of the National Museum, for 

 numerous favors received during the preparation of this work ; to 

 Prof. A. H. Worthen, of Springfield, 111., and to a number of other 

 gentlemen for the liberal loan of books and specimens, and for 

 other valuable information. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 179 



III.-SPHiEROIDOCRINID^. 



The above name is proposed as a family designation, to include 

 such forms of the Palaeocrinoidea, in which both calyx and vault 

 are constructed of a large number of immovable plates and these 

 forming inflexible walls ; with several orders of radials, and one or 

 more of interradials on both the oral and aboral sides. The 

 SphferoidocrinidiB differ thus conspicuously from the Ichthyo- 

 crinidte with their flexible walls and squamous vault, and from the 

 Cyathocrinidffi with their uniform elements of three rings of 

 plates in the calj^x, without interradials, and with simple oral 

 plates in the vault. 



The family, as thus defined, will include genera with underbasals, 

 and genera without them. In this we differ from most authors, 

 who make the presence or absence of these plates a marked family 

 distinction, and who place together within the same family Cj'a- 

 thocrinidte, Ichthyocrinidse and Rhodocrinida?. 



Pictet, Traite de Paleontologie, vol. iv, included in his " Cya 

 thocriniens " our Cyathocrinidee, RhodocrinidiB and parti}' our 

 Ichthyocrinidae ; from the former, however, he excluded Graphio- 

 crinus, which had been described by De Koninck and Lehon with 

 a single circle of plates beneath the radials, and from the latter 

 Fo7'beswcrinus and Taxocri7ius, in which underbasals had not been 

 discovered ; while he admitted the allied genera Ichthyocrinus, 

 Lecanocrinus and Mespilocrinus in which they had been observed. 

 Similar opinions were held by d'Orbigny, Hall, Miller, Austin 

 and others, not including, however, Roemer and Schultze, who 

 made the Rhodocrinidte a distinct family. 



In the first part of this work we have discussed somewhat fully 

 the relations of the underbasals, which we took to be the product 

 of growth in geological times, introduced gradually by interpola- 

 tion between the basals. It is very remarkable that, although the 

 introduction of underbasals dates back to the Lower Silurian, as 

 a rule, the genera in which those plates are found differ at no time 

 materially from those in which they are wanting. Even as late 

 as the Subcarboniferous, we find such species as Adinocrinus 

 Whitei, and Bhodocrinus Wachsmuthi, both from the Burling- 

 ton limestone, so strikingly similar in every respect, both in the 

 structure of the bodj^ and arms, that the species cannot be 




180 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



separated except by means of the basal portions. There are sim- 

 ilar examples in the Silurian and Devonian, which will be noticed 

 later. 



If^ therefore, it be true that the underbasals had no important 

 bearing or influence upon the general structure of the Crinoids, 

 there is no good reason for making their presence or absence a 

 family character, and basing thereon a division to rank with the 

 Cyathocrinidic and Ichthyocrinidae, whose fundamental structural 

 plans offer broad and unmistakable distinctions. Nevertheless, 

 they are not without importance in classification, and certainly 

 characterize a group of more than generic value. We have accord- 

 ingly brought together the genera of this family in which these 

 plates exist under the name '■'' Rhodocriniclse.'''' 



The great family SphajroidocrinidiB includes a vast variety of 

 forms, and a mere separation of these into genera does not meet 

 the requirements of a systematic classification. We find that the 

 genera fall naturally into groups which are well defined. These 

 subordinate groups, which are three in number, we consider to be 

 sub-families, and have arranged them in the following manner : 



1. Platycrinid^. — Underbasals wanting ; basals and first radials 



forming the greater part of the calyx ; succeeding primary 

 radials very small or rudimentary ; all higher orders of 

 radials embraced within free rays ; interradial system but 

 little developed. 



2. AcTiNOCRiNiD^. — Underbasal wanting ; calyx composed of 



basals ; two or more ordei'^ of radials : well developed 

 interradial, and often interaxillary series. 



3. RnoDOCRiNiDiE. — Underbasals present ; calyx composed of 



basals and several orders of radials ; interradial system 

 well developed. 



Before proceeding to the more detailed consideration of these 

 groups, we will consider the difl!erent parts of which the body in 

 the Sphreroidocrinida3 is constructed, and this will throw 

 additional light upon the relations of the subdivisions. 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 181 



1. Underbasals and Basals. 



The genus Glyptocrinus Hall, from the Lower Silurian is one 

 of the earliest, most beautiful, and most instructive types of the 

 Pala?ocrinoidea, and fortunately^ is often found in excellent preser- 

 vation. Looking at the great number of plates which compose 

 its body, at its elaborate ornamentation, one is naturally inclined 

 to consider this as one of the most maturely developed forms in 

 the whole family, but in other respects, it possesses in a marked 

 degree the characters of the young crinoid of later geologic 

 times. 



Glyptocririus was originally described with five basals and no 

 underbasals. Hall afterwards discovered in Gl. decadactylus 

 small pieces concealed within the basal cavity, so rudimentar}-, 

 however, that both he and Meek hesitated to call them basals, 

 although both authors apply that term to the proximal plates in 

 all other cases. Meek distinguished them as " subbasals." We 

 have examined the plates in question very carefnll}" in the species 

 named, and find them, although very rudimentary, placed within 

 the basal ring, hence they are, according to our terminology, true 

 underbasals, and not as Hall describes them a " quinquepartite " 

 upper joint of the column.^ 



In some other species of this genus the underbasals seem to be 

 altogether wanting, at least are not developed externalh'. In 

 Glyptocrinus Dyeri no trace of them can be discovered, thovigh 

 we have examined with reference to this point, some most perfect 

 specimens. If the underbasals were elements of famil}^ import- 

 ance, Gl. decadactylus and Gl. Dyeri would be representatives 

 of distinct families. 



Glyptocrinus is exclusively a Lower Silurian genus. The two 

 species from the Upper Silurian, referred to it by Hall, have been 

 transferred by us to other genera. One of these, 3Iariacrinus 

 Carleyi, is another interesting case illustrating our view that the 

 underbasals have no important effect upon the general structure 

 of the body. M. Carleyi would be an excellent Glyptocrinus 

 were it not that the cal^'x below the radials is composed of a single 



^ The underbasals cannot be developed from a columnar joint, or their 

 sutures would correspond with the sutures of the column ; whenever this 

 is divided, the division occurs alternately with that of the underbasals, and 

 as a rule alternately with the proximal ring of plates. 




182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



ring, and this of only four pieces. Periechocrinus, like Mari- 

 acrinus an Upper Silurian genus and like it without underbasals, 

 has instead of four or five basals, only three. In all other 

 respects tliese genera agree so perfectly with Glyptocrinus that 

 they cannot be distinguished, proving again liow closely llhodo- 

 crinidne and Actinocrinidse are linked together, and that they 

 are in fact variations of one great group. 



Where underbasals are unrepresented, families have frequently 

 been created upon the number of the basals, and Angelin based 

 his entire classification upon the number of proximal plates, 

 whether basals or underbasals. Convenient as this scheme of 

 classification may seem, it is altogether artificial, and combines 

 forms which are widely different, while it separates others which 

 are clearly allied. 



We have in the introduction to this work, page 11, dwelt at some 

 length upon the basals or first ring of plates below the radials ; 

 and believe we have shown that the basal disk, whether composed 

 of one, two, three, four or five pieces, can almost invariably be 

 reduced to five elementary pieces, and that all deviations from 

 this number have been produced by anchylosis of two or more of 

 the original segments. This, of itself, is a strong argument 

 against a classification based upon the number of these plates. 



Among the Actinocrinidas, only a few genera with the original 

 five basal plates are known, and these are confined to the Silurian ; 

 indeed we have good reason to believe that only the very earliest 

 representatives of this group possess a base divided into five 

 pieces. Genera with four basals commence in the Silurian and 

 terminate in the Devonian ; while genera with three basals are 

 found from the Upper Silurian to the close of the Warsaw lime- 

 stone where the family becomes extinct. The genera, with four 

 basals have been referred by us partly to the Actinocrinidte, and 

 partly to the Calyptocrinidffi. The latter family has four basals 

 throughout, but even here this number cannot be considered a 

 family character, since Melocrinus and Mariacrinus^ which have 

 four basals, belong nndoubtedly to the Actinocrinida?. Species 

 with three basals are found among both Actinocrinid* and 

 Platycrinidae, and the latter are by no means restricted to this 

 number, as Dichocrinus, which has been by most systematists 

 placed in the same group with Plati/crinus and Rexacrinus, has 

 but two basals. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 183 



It is apparent from these facts that neither the existence of 

 underbasals, nor the modifications which took place in the basal 

 disk, had any such corresponding effect upon tlie general structure 

 of the crinoids as to entitle them to be considered characters of 

 family importance, though in distinguishing subordinate groups 

 they may possess some value. The radial and interradial plates 

 are elements of far greater value. 



2. Radial Plates. 



In our nomenclature we have proposed different terms for 

 special parts of the ra}^, discriminating between radials, brachials 

 and arm plates. We designate as " radials " the whole succes- 

 sion of plates above the basals radially situated and enclosed 

 within the body walls. The "arm plates" form the movable 

 portion of the ra^- ; the "brachials," while radials in position, 

 are ai'm plates in construction, being free and distinctly articu- 

 lated. The term " brachials " is therefore purely a conventional 

 one, employed for greater convenience in description. We desig- 

 nate as "primary radials" those below the first bifurcation, 

 while the " secondary radials " compose the first branches of each 

 ra3% the so-called " Distichalia" of Miiller and other writers ; and 

 those of succeeding bifurcations are distinguished by referring 

 them to the order in which they stand in succession. Miiller, in 

 applying the term " distichalia," was evidently not aware, that 

 there are many fossil Crinoids in which these plates give oflT 

 branches which likewise form a part of the test, otherwise he 

 would not have regarded the arms as commencing at the "axil- 

 lary distichals," 4 



Schultze, in his Monograph Echinod. Eifl. Kalk, p. 5, improved 

 upon Miiller's views, and asserted that "the commencement of the 

 arms begins invariably with the first distinct articulation of the 

 ra3^" Like Miiller, he uses the term " distichalia " for the 

 secondary radials, and proposes no name to designate the plates 

 of the higher branches within the body. Schultze difllers from 

 Miiller in designating the free radials as arm plates, and in this 

 he agrees with us ; except that we distinguish those arm plates 

 which are in direct vertical line with the radials as " brachials." 



De Koninck and Lehon regarded the arms as beginning from 

 the first bifurcation in the ray, no matter whether they became 




184 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



free at this point, oi' remained included within the body walls for 

 some distance. Thej', however, characterized those plates which 

 arc immovably united with the calyx — the " distichalia " of 

 Mliller — as " pieces brachiales," and the movable joints as 

 " articles brachiaux." 



P. Herbert Carpenter, in his late work on the Actinometra, p. 

 22, states that the views of De Koninck upon the relation of these 

 plates were unquestionably correct in the case of the "Articulate 

 Crinoids," but that their application to the " fossil Tesselata " 

 was beset with some difficulties. 



We do not exactly coincide with any of these views. It seems 

 to us that either the entire radial series of plates within the calyx, 

 eventually up to the sixth division, or even higher, must be called 

 radials, or this term must be restricted to the first radial plate. 

 The first primary radials are the only plates, besides the basals, 

 which form a part of the calyx iri all Crinoids^ and which can be 

 homologized with the apical plates of other Echinoderms. All 

 succeeding plates in the series are, in our own opinion, originally 

 arm plates, wdiich by growth during the life of the individual — 

 chiefly, no doubt, in the embrj^o — and by development in geologi- 

 cal time, were enclosed within the walls, and became thus modified 

 into radials, the change being produced by growth and the devel- 

 opment of additional interradials and interaxillary pieces. That 

 this was the case in the higher orders of radials can be clearly 

 demonstrated, and we feel confident, from analogy, that the same 

 rule extends to the plates throughout the ray, which in turn 

 suggests the idea that the arms fundamentally commence with 

 the second radials, and not with the axillary plate" as intimated by 

 Carpenter, nor with the distichalia of Mliller. In practice, how- 

 ever, and in this we agree with Carpenter, it is more convenient 

 to regard the arms as commencing with the first free plate beyond 

 the calyx. 



The radials, as we designate them, consist throughout the Sphai- 

 roidocrinidffi, of five rows of plates, of two to three each, longi- 

 tudinally arranged. The upper one bifurcates and supports upon 

 its upper sloping sides two rows of one or more smaller plates — 

 the secondary radials — which in turn, either support the arms 

 directl}^, or divide again, and are followed by radials of the third 

 order. In species of the latter kind, the upper plate in one or both 

 divisions is axillary and supports on each sloping side another 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 185 



row of raclials. The formation of higher orders of radials takes 

 place in a similar manner, only one branch generally bifurcating, 

 and one remaining single. In species with but two orders of 

 I'adials the number of primary arms is limited to two in each 

 ray, which, however, sometimes branch after they become free. 

 Species with tertiary radials may have either three or four arms to 

 the ray, depending upon whether one or both divisions bifurcate. 

 Upon the same principle species with four orders of radials may 

 have five to eight arms, and those with a fifth order may have 

 from eight to twelve and even sixteen. The first number can onl}- 

 occur when all the branches remain simx^le ; the latter when thej- 

 all divide. Hence the number of primar}- arms is dependent upon 

 the number of orders of radials represented in the species, and 

 whether part of them bifurcate again or remain simple. It is 

 important to note that simple arms are always given off from 

 opposite sides alternately. 



The number of arms is most frequently only of specific import- 

 ance, but in cases where certain rays throughout a number of 

 species are distinguished bj^ a smaller or greater number, the arm 

 formula may become almost a generic character, as for instance 

 in Batocrinus^ where the posterior rays are generally more 

 developed. In Eretmocrinus the anterior and two posterior rays 

 are less developed than the antero-lateral rays. In some genera 

 the arms appear to be limited to a certain number, in others 

 the}^ vary. In the typical Actinocrinus there are species with 

 four, five, six, seven and eight arms to the ray, but the normal 

 number is uniform in the different rays. In all these cases, how- 

 ever, as well as not unfrequently within the limits of species, 

 there are exceptions. 



3. Interradials and Anals. 



The interradial and anal plates occupy the intermediate spaces 

 between the five radial divisions or raj'S in the bod}', and their 

 number and shape depends altogether upon the number, position 

 and. proportions of the radial plates. They vary from a single 

 plate to twent}' or more, but are represented even in the young 

 crinoid by at least one plate. In species in which the secondary 

 radials of adjacent rays abut laterally, the number of interradials 

 is naturally small, but when higher orders of radials are present, 

 and especially when the raj'S are widel}- separated, the number is 




186 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



comparatively much larger. When the second and third radials 

 are short, the number of interradials decreases, and it increases 

 when they are long and narrow. This increase in number takes 

 place by interpolation, contrary to the radials in which the increase 

 is from the distal ends of the rays. The interradials are designed 

 to fill up vacant spaces in the test, and this accounts to some 

 extent for the great diversity which is found in their number 

 within the limits of a genus, and within species at different stages 

 of maturity. The first interradial is always larger than any of the 

 rest, and is situated between the upper sloping margins of the 

 adjoining first radials, except in some species of the Rhodocrinidse 

 in which it rests directly upon the basals, separating the ring 

 completely. There are generally two plates in the second series, 

 and two or three in each succeeding one, but in forms where the 

 secondary or tertiary radials form an arch over tlie interradial 

 spaces, as in Batocrinus, there is often only a single plate in the 

 second or third series. The plates decrease in size upwards, 

 those of the uppermost row being sometimes barely visible to the 

 eye. 



The posterior or anal area is readily recognized in most of the 

 Sph.Troidocrinidse by its greater width, and by having a larger 

 number, and a somewhat diflerent arrangement of plates. In 

 most of the genera the first anal plate is in line with the first 

 radials, resting upon the basals. In our remarks upon the 

 Cyathocrinidfe we noted the fact that in that family the anal plates, 

 with a few exceptions, are directed toward the right side. In the 

 Sphffiroidocrinidse, on the contrary, the symmetry is always bi- 

 lateral, in some cases almost perfectly pentahedral, and a vertical 

 section through the median line of the anal area, the anal aper- 

 ture, the central dome plate, and along the anterior ray, divides 

 the body invariably into two equal parts, and this symmetry, which 

 extends to the arrangement of the arms, is one of the most char- 

 acteristic features of the fiunily. 



The term "anal plates," as now used, designates the entire 

 series of plates which compose the posterior interradius. Properly 

 speaking, however, this is not quite correct. Careful examina- 

 tion shows clearly that the majority of these plates are in the 

 true sense of the word " interradials," while only a few of them 

 are actuall}' " anals," by which we understand plates supporting 

 the anus, or that can be accounted for as being in any way, directly 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 18t 



or indirectly, connected with that organ. In the earlier genera, 

 Glyptocriniis, Beteocrinus, Glyptaster, Archaeocrinus, Eucrinus, 

 and in all genera up to the Subcarboniferous in which the anal 

 opening is lateral, the posterior area is distinctly' divided into two 

 equal parts by a single median row of plates. This row, which 

 often extends to the anal opening, is composed of the true anal 

 plates, but the plates on either side of it are interradials. By 

 considering the latter, without regard to the median row, it will 

 be found, that the two sections taken together correspond exactly 

 in number and general arrangement with the interradials of the 

 other areas, or at least differ not more than the other four differ 

 among themselves. But it must be observed that in genera in 

 which the first anal plate rests directly upon the basals {Glyptaster, 

 Eucrinus, Dorycrmus, etc.), the first true interradial in the pos- 

 terior area is divided, and is represented by two smaller plates, 

 separated by a special anal plate (PI. XIX, fig. 2). In these genera 

 the anals proper extend from the basals to the anal aperture. 

 Glyptocrinus and its congeners, in which there is no anal piece 

 represented between the first radials and in which the first interra- 

 dial range, consists of a single plate in all five spaces, the special 

 anal plates begin with the second range in which there are three 

 plates. In later geological times, when the anal opening became 

 more central, the special anal plates decreased to two or three, 

 and in the t3'pical Actinocrinidie in which we include the genera 

 Actinocrinus, Amphoracrinus, Strotocrinus, Physetocrinus and 

 Steganocrinus, they are reduced to a single plate. 



Some of the Platj^crinidas have no special anal piece, and the 

 posterior side differs merely b}^ having a somewhat larger inter- 

 radial, others however, as Dichocrinus and Hexacrinus, have a 

 very large special plate. In some of the Rhodocrinidfe, like the 

 Calyptocrinidfe, the symmetry of the cal3'x is almost regularly 

 pentahedral, and none of the plates of the posterior side are 

 actually anals. 



4. Interaxillary Plates. 



The space within the axil of the secondar}^ radials is frequently 

 filled by plates, for which we proposed in the first part of this 

 work the name " axillarj^ plates." This designation is undoutedly 

 appropriate, but finding that it had been previousl}- used b}' several 

 authors for the bifurcating plates, we have thought best, in order 




188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



to avoid confusion, to nse the term " interaxillary " for these 

 plates. 



In the Platyeriniclffi, which have rare]}' more than a single order 

 of radials within the calyx, interaxillary plates are not represented. 

 In the ActinocrinidjB and Rhodocrinidfe the}^ may be present or 

 absent in the same species, and sometimes in different rays of the 

 same specimen, their number, like that of the interradials, increas- 

 ing with age. 



Roemer and Joh. Miiller considered the presence of interaxll- 

 lai'ies as of generic value, and the latter proposed a division of 

 the genus Actinoci'iniis, placing all species having those plates 

 under Pyxidocrinus; but it is evident that such a division is alto- 

 gether artificial and not warranted by the facts, and if carried out 

 would produce confusion. 



5. Yault. 



One of the writers, in a paper upon " the internal and external 

 structure of Paleozoic Crinoids " (Am. Jour. Sci., Sept. 187*7), 

 discussed the importance of the vault with reference to classifica- 

 tion. It was noted that in a large number of genera, among them 

 Actinocrimis, Rhodocrinus and Platycrinus, and their allies, the 

 ventral coA'cring is composed of strong plates closely cemented 

 together, and that these form a free arch which braces the entire 

 oral side of the body without the aid of oral plates. This is the 

 general character of the vault in the family under consideration. 



The vault in the Sphseroidocrinidae is usually well preserved, 

 owing to its solid structure, and is capable of accurate definition. 

 Its plates var}' from a few to many hundred ; but, notwith- 

 standing this diversity- in number, their arrangement is governed 

 by definite rules. Certain of these plates, which we have termed 

 the " apical dome plates," are represented in every species of this 

 group. They consist of a central piece, occupying a position 

 directl}'' above the oral centre, which in this family is quite 

 uniformly the centre of the disk. It is surrounded by six prox- 

 imal plates, interradial in position, of which four are large, and 

 equal, and two smaller. The four large plates are placed above 

 the four regular interradial spaces respectivel}^ ; the two smaller 

 plates which are equivalent to and take the place of one large plate, 

 are directed posteriori}-, being separated from each other by anal 

 plates or the proboscis. These seven plates are easily recognized 

 in species with comparatively few summit pieces and a lateral 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 189 



anal aperture (PL XYIIT, figs. 1 and 9), but their identification is 

 often difficult in forms in which a large subcentral anal tube is 

 interposed between the two small plates, pushing them toward 

 the anterior side, while the central piece rests against the side of 

 the anal tube. (PI. XYIII, fig. 8). 



There are other vault pieces occupying a radial position which are 

 sither in contact with those just described, or, as is more frequently 

 the case, separated from them by a belt of small pieces. Their 

 number varies considerably among species, and depends upon the 

 number of primary arms, without reference to the number of bifur- 

 cations after they become free. They increase in proportion to 

 the number of pi'imarj' arms, in the same manner and on the same 

 principle as the plates of the calj^x, each order of radials has its 

 corresponding plates in the vault. Therefore, in adult specimens, 

 with some practice the number of arms can be ascertained as well 

 from the dome as from the calyx. In species with two arms to 

 the ray, there are two ranges of corresponding radial plates in the 

 dome ; the first or upper being a large bifurcating plate, equiva- 

 lent to the primary radials of the caljx. This is followed by two 

 other plates, which take the place of the secondary radials, one 

 over each arm base, with a third plate — an interbrachial — between 

 them. 



When there are three arms to the ray, there are three ranges 

 of radial dome plates, two plates in direct succession from the 

 large bifurcating plate toward the single arm, and a second bifur- 

 cation, with one plate in each branch, toward the division with two 

 arms. In species with four arms to the ray, there are two secoudarj^ 

 bifurcations, producing radial dome plates of a tMrd order, leading 

 to each arm base, and so on. There are also interradial plates 

 represented in the summit, occupying intermediate spaces between 

 the radials, but their arrangement is very irregular and their 

 number variable. In some genera the number of vault pieces is 

 enormous, notably in Strotocrinus, which has a large number of 

 arms. Looking at such a specimen with its vast number of 

 apparentl}" irregular vault pieces, one would scarcely expect to 

 find this multitude of plates arranged upon a definite plan ; and 

 this the same that prevails in the calj'x. 



We have called the principal plates in the vault apical dome 

 plates, because thej^ correspond to the apical plates of the aboral 

 side. The six proximal plates surrounding the central piece repre- 




190 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



sent the basals or genitals, and the radial dome plates, the radials 

 or oculars. The centre piece may perhaps be compared with the 

 underbasals, or the subanal plate of the Echini. 



The apical dome plates, as the apical plates of the cal^-x, are 

 fundamental elements, and are represented in the vault of all 

 Sphffiroidocrinidse both in the 3^oung and the adult, from the 

 Lower Silurian to the Subcarboniferous. They are generallj' 

 larger than the other dome plates, and more prominent, frequently 

 nodose or spiniferous, though in some species they cannot, at 

 least in mature specimens, be readily distinguished from the other 

 dome-plates which have attained equal size. In some genera, 

 for instance, CuUcocrinus, Miiller, they occupy almost the entire 

 ventral disk ; in Glyptocrinus and Bhodocrinus^ on the contrary, 

 they fill only the median part. In some species of Dorycrinus 

 the central piece is spiniferous and the radials nodose ; in others, 

 all these plates are spiniferous. In Amphoracrinus only the four 

 larger proximal dome plates are nodose or spiniferous ; in Agari- 

 cocrinus allapical plates are tuberculose ; in Batocrinus the entire 

 dome is composed of nodose plates. The proximal plates in some 

 species are attached to the centre plate, in others separated from 

 it by a ring of small accessory pieces, and in still others the centre 

 piece is entirely isolated by the wide belt of minute pieces. The 

 latter is frequently the case in large specimens, and in genera with 

 but few primary arms, like 3Iegistocrinus. In this genus it is inter- 

 esting to find in very young specimens and in the smaller species 

 the central and proximal plates in contact, while in the larger and 

 adult specimens all are isolated, even the proximal plates being 

 separated from each other. The radial dome plates are sometimes 

 attached to the other apical plates, frequently so in young speci- 

 mens, and generally in the Platycrinidaj. 



In Platycrinus the radial series of the dome is composed of 

 two rows of pieces alternately arranged, which decrease in size 

 toward the arm bases, and of which the fii-st and larger plate fits 

 in the angle of two adjacent proximal plates. 



The vault of the Platycrinidtie differs in several particulars 

 from that of the other Sphseroidocrinidoe, and in these same char- 

 acters it approaches the Cyathocrinidte. We elsewhere suggest 

 that the Platycrinoid is the simplest form of the Sphiieroido- 

 crinidse, and that it represents the j-ounger stage of the famil}'. 

 This is indicated by the construction of the calyx, but not less b}^ 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 191 



the structure of the vault. In the genus Coccocrinus Miiller, 

 one of its earliest forms, the vault is composed of five large oral 

 plates, resting upon the upper truncate side of a single interradial, 

 and, as found in the fossil, it has a central oral opening and 

 lateral grooves for the ambulacral furrows. Zittel has already- 

 noted the close resemblance of the above structure with the recent 

 genus Hyocrinns Wj'ville Thomson, and the larval state of 

 Coma;!M?a, calling it very appropriately " ein embryonales Stadium 

 von Comatula in persistenter Form." The similiarity to Hyo- 

 crinus is probably merel}" superficial, as the lateral grooves in 

 Coccocrinus were evidentlj^ closed by additional plates as in other 

 Platycrinidae, while they are open in Hyocrinus. The oi'al plates 

 of Coccocrinus have been,b3' several authors, confounded with an 

 apparently similar superstructure in Symbathocrinus, Tnacrinus 

 and other forms, but there is really no analogy between the two 

 structures. The parts which enclose the opening at the oral 

 centre in the latter forms are radial in position, and therefore 

 not oral plates, but merely extended articulating facets of the 

 radials. In those genera, the central space, like the opening at 

 the centre of the oral plates, is also closed in perfect specimens 

 by apical dome plates, which rest directly upon the extended pro- 

 cesses. This group will be introduced hereafter as a separate 

 family under the name SymbathocrinidtB. 



The ventral disk in Coccocrinus bears a close resemblance to 

 that of Cyathocrinus, but while the former has an additional inter- 

 radial interposed between its radial and oral plates, in Cyatho- 

 crinus the intermediate plate is absent, and the oral plate rests 

 against the incurved upper margins of the radials. In Platycrinus 

 and similar genera, the two series of alternate plates which, as 

 mentioned before, cover the radial regions of the dome, are inter- 

 posed between three and sometimes five interradial plates, which 

 in Coccocrinus as oral and interradial plates occupy the same 

 position. This suggests the question whether these plates in the 

 Platycrinidae, and the interradial dome plates in the Sphteroido- 

 crinidoe generally, are not the homologues of the oral plates, which 

 are here broken up, and represented by several plates instead of 

 one. This interpretation seems to us the more probable because 

 Coccocrinus is one of the earliest known forms of the Platycrinidae, 

 and may be considered an embryonic type of the family. 

 The homology: in Platycrinus^ however, extends only to the 




192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



second or upper row of interradials, the first interradial, -which 

 exceptionally in this group is placed almost within the dome 

 regions, is identical with the outer interradial plate of Coccocrinus, 

 and as such forms part of the apical and not of the oral system. 



This Adew differs somewhat from that expressed by us in Part 

 I, p. 13, where we stated that the oral plate of the Cyathocrinidse 

 had " no representative in the vault of the Actinocrinidse.atleast not 

 externally ; " we were not at tliat time acquainted, with the genus 

 Coccocrinus^ which has given us new light upon the subject. We 

 have thought heretofore that perhaps the triangular porous 

 structures arranged around the inner test of many Actinocri- 

 nidae, might be the homologues of the oral plates. 



The vault throughout the Sphjeroidocrinidfe is perforated with 

 a single opening, which in all of them is more or less exeentric ; 

 in some lateral and placed toward the periphery of the disk ; in 

 others sub-central leaning toward the posterior side of the body. 

 The construction of the parts at the inner surface of the dome 

 proves that the opening communicated with the posterior side of 

 the visceral cavity, not with the digestive organs. It is sejDarated 

 from the ambulacral and oral systems by a strong partition 

 attached to the inner surface of the vault, and hence the opening 

 represents the anus, and is not the oral aperture, as has been 

 supi^osed by the earlier writers. 



The anus is either in the form of a simple opening through the 

 vault, or is prolonged into a tube, which in Batocrinus sometimes 

 attains a length of three times the height of the body including 

 the arms. The tube is in all cases composed of heavy, generally 

 nodose, wedge-form pieces, which are firmly put together, giving 

 but little flexibility to the structure. It has no openings or pores 

 through its plates or at the sutures, but has in the centre a 

 comparatively small passage, with a minute outlet at the extremit3^ 

 In cases where the anus is not extended into a tube, the aperture 

 is generally situated within the centre of a wart-like inflation com- 

 posed of very small pieces. It is possible that in such cases the 

 small inner plates formed a little pliable tube, which could be 

 drawn in by the animal like the anus in recents Ci'inoids,^ but a 



^ In the genus Codonites of the Blastoidea, we find in connection with 

 the anal opening a similar little tube, which we found in one specimen 

 extended outward, while in another, traces of its little plates are left 

 within the opening. 




1881.] ■ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 193 



contraction of the long solid tube of Acfinoo'inus, as has been 

 suggested by Austin, is wholl3' impossible. 



There has been considerable difference of opinion as to whether 

 species with a solid anal tube should be separated from those with 

 a simple opening. Cousidering the slight distinctious upon which 

 many of the genera have been founded, it would seem that the 

 tubular structure ought to be of sufficient importance to justify a 

 generic separation ; but when we consider that various generic 

 groups, after being carefully restricted with reference to all other 

 characters, include both forms, its value as a full generic character 

 must be somewhat doubtful. We once supposed that it might be 

 a sexual difference, but the specific relations of the forms thus 

 distinguished do not sustain that supposition. Both forms are 

 not found in all the groups, though they exist in many, and 

 throughout all divisions of this famil}'. In some cases generic 

 separations have been made upon this character, as for instance 

 Physetocrinus has been divided from Actinocrinus, Alloprosallo- 

 crinus from Agaricocrinus^ etc., while in other cases as Platy- 

 criniis^ GJy2:)tocrinus and Strotocinnus both forms have been 

 retained in the same genus. It must also be observed, in this 

 connection, that in some cases, especially species with a very 

 slender proboscis like Batocrinus rotundus^ we find occasionally 

 specimens in which the tube seems to have been accidentally 

 broken awaj^ during the life of the animal, and in which the 

 fractured edges of its base had become absorbed and rounded, 

 giving it the appearance of a naturalh^ simple oj>ening. That the 

 simple opening could have been produced in a like manner in 

 Strotocrinus and other genera, no one would for a moment suppose 

 after examining good specimens. 



The fact that the crinoid lived on without the tube, at least 

 proves that this structure had no important influence upon the 

 general organization of these animals. 



A tube is more freqiiently found in genera in which the arms 

 are arranged in a continuous series around the body, while in 

 species with a simple lateral opening the arms are arranged more 

 or less in clusters, leaving wide spaces between the ra3's. In the 

 former case, the long tube could discharge the excrements free 

 from the arms, and in the latter it was not needed as the refuse 

 matter could be easily discharged between the bases of the arm 

 clusters. In view of these facts, we think a subgeneric division 



14 




194 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF * [1881. 



sufficient to mark the two structures, but this should be done 

 uniformly and we shall accordingly propose subgenera where 

 necessary for this purpose. 



The vault does not completely cover the calyx, but leaves along 

 the line of junction a row of oval or circular passages which have 

 been called arms or " ambulacral openings." The belt in which 

 they occur is known as the " arm regions," and their distribution 

 in the different rays is expressed by the " arm formula." Thi'ough 

 the arm openings which are veiy conspicuous in the Sphaeroido- 

 cnnidii:', food entered the body, and the}^ served as passages for 

 the ambulacral vessels. In a mature specimen the number of 

 primar}^ arms can be ascertained by counting the arm openings ; 

 but not always in young specimens, or in species in which the 

 radial portions are extended into free ra^'s. 



By " free rays " we mean lateral extensions of the body, com- 

 posed of a succession of radials, unconnected by interradials, and 

 covered with similar plates, as solidly and in the same manner as 

 the radial portions of the dome proper. These free rays, whether 

 composed of only a few plates as in Plafycrinus, or extended 

 almost to the full length of the arms as in Eucladocrinus and 

 Steganocrinus, are actually portions of the body, and the arms are 

 given off from them in the same manner as from the body in other 

 cases. 



In the PlatyCrinid^ generally , there are within the calyx primary 

 radials onlj^, all the higher orders of radials being included within 

 the free ra3^s. In the body of a Platycrinus in its ordinary preser- 

 vation, we find but five arm openings, but whenever the bifurcating 

 plate is well preserved at its distal end, ten openings are Ausible,^ 

 and these form passages for the free rays which here divide, each 

 branch giving off arms laterally and from opposite sides. The 

 free rays are rarely preserved in the fossil unless the arms are 

 attached, when they really appear like arms and have been 

 described as such. That they are not arms is proved by the fact 

 that their ventral side is not provided with a furrow, but is 

 covered in the same way as the vault proper. In these forms, as 

 might be expected, the number of arms cannot be determined from 



^ This proves that P. Herbert Carpenter is correct in saying that the 

 division of the arms actually begins at the middle of the bifurcating plates, 

 (pn Actinometra, p. 22). 




1881.] ■ NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 195 



the arm openings, unless the full length of the ra}' is preserved ; 

 any fracture of the ray, whether cutting off one arm or a dozen, 

 shows in the specimen onl}' a single opening. 



The Platycrinoid with its simple form, is similar in structure 

 to the young Actinocrinoid,in which some portions of the ray are 

 yet in the condition of free appendages. The young Actinocrinoid, 

 at this stage, has the same number of arms as the adult ; but in 

 species with numerous arms, the upper divisions of the ray, which 

 in the mature animal are incorporated in the body walls by means 

 of interradial and interaxillary plates, form free appendages in 

 the younger stage, and consequently the number of arms is 

 comparatively less than in full grown individuals. In Slroto- 

 crini's, which has the greatest number of arms, we find in very 

 3'oung specimens only four arm openings to the raj' ; approaching 

 maturity there are eight, afterwards twelve, and in fully matured 

 individuals there are perhaps sixteen or more. Specimens in 

 different stages of growth, have frequently been described as 

 distinct species on account of variation in the number of arm 

 openings ; and this has even been extended to genera. As growth 

 progressed, the upper branches gradually lost their free character 

 by being absorbed into the body walls through the interpolation 

 of interradials and interaxillaries, both in the calj^x and in the 

 vault. The plates which covered the ventral side of the free 

 appendages were thus drawn into the vault, and became at length 

 a part of the main bodj^ ; but the Platj'crinidfe, which have no 

 interaxillaries nor increase of interradials, retain the free append- 

 ages during life. 



As a general rule it may be asserted, that in the Sphreroido- 

 crinidffi the plates of the vault increase in number outward in a 

 similar manner to the plates of the calyx. The various plates of 

 which the body is composed might be separated into two classes : 



1. Plates which either do not increase in number, or do so only 

 at the distal ends, and not by interpolation, including the basals, 

 radials and arm plates. 



2. Plates which increase by interpolation only, including the 

 underbasals, interradials, anals and interaxillaries, to which we 

 might add the joints of the column. 




19g proceedings of the academy of [1881. 



6, Arms and 1'innules. 

 The arms in the Sphseroidocrinidae are either simple or branch- 

 ing, and are constructed either of a single or double series of 

 joints. Single arm joints are restricted to the Silurian, all 

 Devonian and Subcarboniferous genera have two rows of alter- 

 nately arranged joints in the arms. In the Cyathocrinidfe, almost 

 to the close of the Subcarboniferous, the arms are composed of 

 single joints, but in the Kaskaskia Limestone and Coal Measures 

 a few species occur with double-jointed arms, intermingled, how- 

 ever, Avith species apparentl}' of the same genus, in which the arms 

 are constructed of single wedge-form joints alternately arranged. 

 These two structures run so closely into each other through 

 transition forms, that we have been compelled to arrange them 

 in some cases under the same genus, although we have in. 

 other cases considered the arm structure to be of generic import- 

 ance. For tliis we have been criticised by Prof. Wetherby, of 

 Cincinnati, who thinks it " a singular statement, that a character 

 in forms of the same geological age may be generic in one case, 

 and only specific in another." He evidently overlooks the fact 

 that all Crinoids in their young stage have single-jointed arms, 

 and that the double-jointed feature is a product of growth which 

 primarilj- was only an individual variation, but which, by becom- 

 ing fixed and constant in certain forms, attained generic value, 

 especially when taken in connection with other characters. The 

 best specific and generic and even famil}' characters, originated in 

 individual A^ariation, and at some period in the paleontological 

 history of the organism were without value as a means of classi- 

 fication. Near the close of the existence of the family Cyatho- 

 crinida?, the double-jointed arm structure began to be developed, 

 in some forms irregularly, in others to such a degree as to be 

 constant, and to form a distinguishing characteristic of many 

 species, which thus fell naturally into a generic group. This 

 process is illustrated in Eupachycrinus, Hydreionocrinus and 

 Erisocrinus^ and there are similar examples among the Sphseroido- 

 crinidae. The young Platycrinus and Actinocrinus have a single 

 series of cuneiform arm joints, which are constructed exactly like 

 those of the adult Poteriocrinus^ and the pinnules are given off in 

 a like manner. At a more advanced stage the joints begin to 

 enlarge laterally in such a manner that the sharp inner angles 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 197 



interlock. This process commences at the extremities of the 

 arras, and gradually involves the lower portions down to the bases. 

 During this stage we often find the lower arm joints quadrangular, 

 with parallel sutures, followed by wedge-form and cuneiform pieces, 

 and finall\- the tips constructed of a double series of plates. 



The same development, which thus took place during the life of 

 the individual, is observed to go on in geological times, but not 

 contemporaneously in different families. In the Actinocrinidffi 

 and Platycrinida? it became complete in the Silurian, and is found 

 invariably in all succeedyig forms. In the Cyathocrinidie, that 

 structure appeared only at the close of the Subcarboniferous 

 shortly before the famih' became extinct. In this group, the arm 

 pieces attained that marked wedge-form which everywhere ])re- 

 ceded the double joints in the Burlington limestone, and here in 

 some species of Poteriocrinus and Cceliocrinus the plates beo-an 

 to interlock already at the tips of the arms. This became more 

 frequent and more conspicuous in the Kaskaskia group, where in 

 some few cases, it extended to the entire arm. 



The ditierent stages of individual growth, as the3' became gradu- 

 ally introduced paleontologically and fixed, undoubtedly form 

 excellent generic characters, but we must not forget that there 

 was a time in the life of the crinoid at which the arms were 

 neither single- nor double-jointed, but at which the joints began 

 to interlock, and when probably a very few daj^s brought about 

 important changes in the arms of the growing animal. This 

 stage is represented paleontologicallj^ among the C3^athocrinid£e 

 b}' Eupachycrinus, Erisocrinus and Hydreionocrinus, and jn this 

 view of the ease it is not difficult to understand how this arm 

 structure may be of generic importance as a rule, but scarcely of 

 specific value in exceptional cases. 



It has been stated that the double-joint structure was introduced 

 in the Spha^roidocrinidaj in the Silurian, and this occurred under 

 exactly the same conditions as it did later on in the Cvathocri- 

 nidse. By far the greater number of species in the Lower Silurian 

 have single arm joints, and these, with a few exceptions, consist of 

 quadrangular pieces with parallel sutures. In the Upper Silurian 

 we find a few forms with single joints, and along with them arms 

 with cuneiform joints — either interlocking or not — associated in 

 the same strata with species having double series of arm plates 

 and we find all intermediate gradations between the two extremes. 




198 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



In some of these species the two structures are found combined, 

 in others so closely associated that it is next to impossible to 

 separate them ; and in still others the extremes are separately 

 represented. Generic divisions based upon these variations, unless 

 accompanied by other distinctive characters, seem to be unneces- 

 sary and inexpedient. It would require the creation of a large 

 number of new genera, which would probably have to be sub- 

 divided to accommodate other transitional forms, and so on with- 

 out end. 



The double series of joints resulted from the increasing width 

 and outward growth of the arm ; hence arm joints which originally 

 Avere simple and cuneate did not in the mature animal extend 

 througli the full width of the arm, but gradually interlocked by 

 their shai'p angles, so that joints on each side, which at first were 

 separated b}^ another joint, came by degrees to be partly in con- 

 tact and to rest upon each other. Therefore, in double-jointed 

 arms every joint at each side bears a pinnule, while in those with 

 single joints the pinnules are found only on alternate sides. 



The arms in the Actinocrinidaj and Plat^crinidte divide rarely 

 af:er they become free, the branching as a rule taking place in the 

 body or in the free rays, MegUtocrinus^ Amphorac7-inus, and 

 Periechocrinus form the only exceptions. In the Rhodocrinidte, 

 on the contrary', the arms branch as a rule beyond the calyx. 



The ventral grooves in the arms of this family are less deep, 

 but comparatively wider than those of the Cyathocrinidae. They 

 are bordered on each side by a row of long pinnules, which cover 

 them perfectly. Whether the grooves were closed b}" marginal 

 plates seems to us doubtful, although Prof. Wetherby states that 

 he has observed such plates in Glyptocrinus. they probabl}^ occur 

 below the bifurcation where the arms should be regarded as free 

 ra^^s, or perhaps they are restricted to oral arms, such as P. Herbert 

 Carpenter describes in Actinometra 



The pinnules throughout this family are long, closely crowded 

 together laterally, and the two rows with which each arm is pro- 

 vided fit together so neatl}'^, and cover the arm furrow so perfectly, 

 that additional plates were scarcel}^ needed. Each pinnule is com- 

 posed of a number of joints, which differ in form in different genera. 

 In some they are of equal width .and height, outwardly convex ; 

 in others higher than wide, with the outer surface flat ; in some 

 they are entirely smooth, and in others provided with a peculiar 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 199 



hook ; but in all cases they lie so close together side by side, that 

 it appears as if the pinnules were laterally- attached. In Activo- 

 crinus and Strotocrinus each pinnule is furnislied near the middle 

 of its outer surface with a tooth-like spine Avhich curves abruptly 

 upwards ; these spines are short and obtuse near the arms, but 

 gradually increase in length toward the tips of the pinnules. As 

 a rule the pinnules are deeply grooved on their inner surface, and 

 in perfect specimens the grooves are covered by a double series of 

 very minute pieces, though owing to defective preservation this 

 covering is rarely observed. In young specimens, while the arms 

 are composed of a single series of joints, the pinnules are not in 

 contact, and are onl}^ given off from the alternate joints, but when 

 the alternate arm joints meet b}^ lateral growth, and the pinnules 

 attain their full size they become gradually connected. D'Orbigny's 

 genus EdwardaociHnus was founded upon a young Flatycrinus, 

 whose arms and pinnules were in their transition state. 



T. Internal Cavity. 



The construction of the interior of the bod}' of all Paleozoic 

 Crinoids is best known in the Sphctroidocrinidte, among which, 

 specimens preserving some parts of the delicate organs have occa- 

 sionally been found. 



The inner surface of the vault is ofcen deeply grooved toward 

 the brachial zone, producing corresponding elevations outwardly 

 on the test. There are generally five large grooves, each branching 

 into two smaller ones, the former corresponding to the five rays, 

 the latter to their main divisions. This kind of vault is found 

 most frequently among the Rhodocrinida?. Among the Actino- 

 crinidae external ridges are rarely observed, but in their place 

 the vault within is strengthened with bars or braces radiating 

 from near, but not joining at the centre. The braces widen 

 toward the arm bases, where they fold over to form regular tubes, 

 corresponding with the natural grooves in the vault just 

 described, and they branch as those do. In genera in which the 

 rays are extended into free appendages, and in which but five 

 ambulacral canals pass out from the vault proper (Flatycrinus, 

 Steganocrinus, etc.), the grooves are deep and in some cases were 

 evidently closed and formed into tunnels, leaving, however, in 

 either case beneath the median portion of the dome and in front 

 of the anus, a space which is occupied by narrow grooves, meeting 




200 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



in the centre, and following the median line of the radial depres- 

 sions and galleries below the vault to the arm openings. 



In some specimens of ActinoorinidjB, almost the entire test is 

 lined with a delicate calcareous i)lexus or network. This lining 

 is not in contact with the test directly, but connected with it by 

 small partitions, producing innumerable little chambers, which 

 eommunicate with each other and with the visceral cavity. 

 Thi're is, at least, one such partition or support from each plate 

 of the test, generally arising from the median portion of the plate. 

 (PI. XIX, fig. 16). The plexus is very delicate in some specimens, 

 in others — mostly in large specimens — rather dense and rigid, 

 but in all of them perforated with conspicuous pores or passages, 

 whose arrangement corresponds with the direction of the 

 sutures between the plates of the test. There is one pore at 

 least to each angle of the plate, but sometimes additional ones 

 in large individuals. The structure extends but little below 

 the regions of the second radials, leaves passages at the arm 

 openings, and tow^ard the vault reaches to a place near the 

 median portion of the ray, leaving at the centre an open space in 

 the test which is occupied by the central vault piece. From this 

 space five wide avenues, corresponding with the grooves on 

 the inner surface of the vault, pass out toward the arm bases. 

 The avenues produce five subtriangular interradial or interpalmar 

 fields, which are raised conspicuously above the floor of the vault. 

 They are of rather dense texture at the borders, the inner side 

 somewhat thickened, while the surface of the median portions is 

 rough and uneven, perforated with large and small passages which 

 communicate with the avenues. 



Four of the interpalmar fields are equal, the posterior one fre- 

 quently larger and penetrated by the anal aperture. In species 

 with a lateral opening all five fields have about the same form, 

 and the central space between them is of pentangular outline. The 

 case is different in species with a subcentral anus, when frequently 

 the posterior field is larger and encroaches deepl}^ upon the middle 

 space, giving to it a lunate instead of a subcircular or pentangular 

 outline. In species of this kind, the anus is placed near the edge 

 of the interpnlmar field, but separated from the central space 

 by a partition which forms the border of the field. In species 

 with secondary radials, the avenues divide, sending a branch to 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 201 



each arm, and forming thereby, between the interpalmar fields, a 

 smaller intrapalmar' one similarly constructed. 



A calcareous lining, such as described, has been observed by us 

 with slight variations in Batocrinus, Dorycrinus, Teleiocrinus, 

 (Meek and Worthen's Strotocrinus B), Agaricocrinus and Eretmo- 

 crinus^ and probably existed in many other genera. In the 

 Actinocriniles, or tj'pical Actinocrinidre, the inner framework 

 was either less developed, or was of a more perishable nature. In 

 the genus Actinoci'inus it is indicated on the inner floor of the 

 test by little roughened places, which we take to be traces of the 

 pillars which supported it. In Physelocriniis even these have not 

 been observed, but it is a characteristic feature of that genus, 

 that the plates of the calj^x have along the sutures at each angle 

 verv distinct indentations resembling pores, which give to the 

 outer surface of the test almost the appearance of the inner plexus 

 in species of Batocrinus or Dorycrinus. Whether there was any 

 communication with the visceral cavity' through these indenta- 

 tions cannot be ascertained from the fossil. The test at these 

 points is exceedingly' thin and transparent, but we have never 

 detected an actual passage. It must also be noted that the vault 

 in that genus has similar indentations, but these, contrary to the 

 others, open out from the inner floor of the test, being arranged 

 along the radial grooves, not interradiall^'' as those along the 

 calyx (PI. XIX, figs. 5 and 16). In Strotocrinus^ an internal 

 framework has been observed in connection with the cal^-x, but 

 none with the vault, and its typical form had apparently, like 

 Physetocrinus, slight indentations along the inner floor of the 

 vault. 



The general internal structure indicates a concentration of 

 organs toward a point beneath the centre of the vault, in front of 

 the anus, but not to the anus itself. The latter is situated distinctly 

 outside the radiation, i. e., interradially. The grooves which we 

 have noticed in the vault were figured by De Koninck and Lelion in 

 their Recherches Crin. Carb. Belg., but they seem to have regarded 

 them as muscular impressions. Billings, in the third and fourth 

 Decades of the Canada Geological Report, was the first to treat 



' The term " i/ii<;rpalmar Felder " was used by Joh. Mtiller for the " in- 

 terradialen Felder zwischen den Tentakelvinnen im Perisom des Penta- 

 crir.us, ' /«^?'rtpalmar Felder ' for the interdistichal Felder" (jMonatsber. 

 Berl. Acad. 1841, p. 218;. 




202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



of them in connection witli the ambulacral system. He showed 

 how impossible it was that the ambulacral canals in some Paleo- 

 zoic Crinoids coukl be continued along the outer surface of the 

 vault, and he reached the conclusion that they passed into the 

 body at the arm bases. It is remarkable that Billings, after mak- 

 ing this important discovery, in connection with which analogy 

 suggested that the food entered the bod}' in the same manner, 

 clung as late as 1810 to the old theory that the subcentral passage 

 in these crinoids — interradiately situated as we have shown — 

 served both as mouth and vent. This view was advocated b3'him 

 in a series of interesting articles, published 1869-tO in tlie Am. 

 Jour. Science and Arts, Nos. 142, 145, 149, as '' Notes on the 

 Structure of Crinoidea, Cystidea and Blastoidea." Since that 

 time, it has been most generally conceded that the interradial 

 opening was the anus onl}', and that the oral centre or mouth in 

 the earlier crinoids was hidden from view by external structures.^ 

 Billings' views with regard to the ambulacral passages were con- 

 firmed by Wachsmuth's discovery of radiating tubes beneath the 

 vault,^ which, as he ascertained, connect with the ambulacral 

 furrows in the arms. We have since examined these tubes in 

 several other specimens, both of Actinocrinus and Strotocrinus, 

 and are enabled to give additional information regarding them. 



The radiating tubes are attached to the vault, running parallel 

 to its inner surface. They consist of five main trunks, which 

 follow the direction of the five main avenues which separate the 

 interpalmar fields. They bifurcate in the same waj^ and until a 

 branch connects with every arm. They are composed of four 

 rows of plates, two below and two above. The two latter touch 

 with their edges the inner surface of the vault, are alternately 

 arranged, and grooved along their median line, leaving a tun- 

 neled passage between the walls of the tube and the vault. The 

 trunks of the two lateral sets of tubes on the same side not un- 



1 The following writers have expressed this opinion : Schultze, 1866, 

 Monog-. Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 7 ; Meek and Wortlien, 1869, Proc. Acad. 

 Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 323 ; Loven, on Hypomene Sarsi, reprinted Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., Sept., 1869 ; Wachsmuth, "On the Internal and External 

 Stnicture of Paleozoic Crinoids," Am. Jour. Sci. and Arts, Aug. 1877, p. 

 115; Zittel, 1879, Handb. d. Palseontologie. 



^ Described by Meek and Wortben, Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v, p. 329, and 

 Wachsmuth, Am. Jour. Sci., Aug., 1877, p. 119. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 203 



frequently meet before reaching the peristome, but the anterior 

 ray is always distinctl}^ separated. 



Whenever tubular canals have been observed, they are pre- 

 served only to the border of the central space, but none of 

 them have been found to join in the centre. In a specimen of 

 Actinocr. glans, however, the tubes before terminating bend down- 

 ward toward the visceral cavity, give forth lateral processes, as if 

 disposed to branch, and expose two openings at the extremities 

 directed to opposite sides. The openings indicate that the tubes 

 ma}^ have been connected with each other by lateral passages, and 

 formed a ring around the centre. This is evidentl}^ the structure 

 of Actinocr. Verneuilianus^ in which a circular vessel is observed 

 beneath the centre at a short distance from the vault ; no ambu- 

 lacral tubes are attached to it, but there are small radial openings 

 with which they might have been connected. The lower portion 

 of the ring is composed of minute interlocking pieces, with five 

 additional openings interradially situated. This ring is com- 

 paratively large, enclosing within its circumference the contracted 

 upper part of the convoluted digestive organ, which is well 

 preserved in the specimen from which these facts were obtained. 



A tubular skeleton, as above described, has thus far been 

 observed only in the Actinocrinidae, but a tubular passage beneath 

 the vault, in connection with the arm grooves and oral centre, has 

 been traced in most groups of the Palffiocrinoids, and no doubt 

 existed also in the Blastoids. In Cyathocri7ius, and probabl}' in 

 the Cyathocrinidse generall}^ the tube is constructed of two series 

 of pieces overlying the oral plates, and these again are covered by 

 two similar series of plates, which form a part of the vault. In 

 Granatocrinus the tubes follow the pseudambulacra, being 

 covered by three series of small plates which must be considered 

 extensions of the vault (PI. XIX, fig. 3). 



It is now generally conceded that the tubular canals beneath 

 the vault contain the same organs which in modern crinoids are 

 exposed on the ventral disk, and like them embrace the food 

 passages, and certain other vessels in connection with the ambu- 

 lacral system. In this view of the case, it is reasonable to further 

 consider tliat the annular vessel, above described, served as a 

 water-vascular ring. 



The relations between the vault and the ventral covering of 

 recent Crinoids are not so close as has been sometimes supposed, 




204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the3^ are indeed diflerent things, although there are certain analo- 

 gies between some of their parts. Among these are the oral plates, 

 which are represented in some of the later Crinoids, but absent 

 again in the fully grown PentacrinuH and in the Comatitlidse. 

 They are also absent in the Spluvroidocrinidte, unless we consider 

 the interradial vault pieces to be their representatives. We have 

 alread}' suggested that all intenadial plates in the dome — exclu- 

 siA'C of the proximal pieces — may perhaps have been modified 

 oral plates which, either by division or interpolation, gradually 

 increased in number. The dome of Coccocrinus has a single 

 oral plate to each interradial field, while the corresponding spaces 

 in most species of Plafyannuti are occupied by three and occa- 

 sionally five pieces each. It is as easy to consider the single 

 plate of the former to be represented by three in Platycrinus, as 

 that the three are sometimes replaced by five within the limits 

 of the same genus, the plates occup}^ the same jwsition in both 

 cases, but in some groups the true orals meet laterally which is not 

 the case with the interradial dome pieces of Platycrinus or Acti- 

 nocrinus, nor with the undivided plates of Coccocrinus. In 

 Cyathocrinus where the orals are very conspicuous, they join 

 beneath the radial groove, and form the floor upon which the am- 

 bulacral tube i-ests. The bottom of the tube is composed of two 

 series of pieces, which are covered directl}^ b}^ vault pieces in two 

 alternate rows, whose lateral margins rest upon the upper edges 

 of the two orals ; while in Platycrinus the corresponding vault 

 pieces abut laterally against the sides of the interradial — oral — 

 plates in an unbroken succession. In Platycrinus the interradial 

 plates thus take exactly the same position as the exposed part of 

 the oral plates in Cyathocrinus, while the covered parts are 

 unrepresented. In Coccocrinus^ a covering of the ambulacral 

 groove has not yet been observed, but judging from the fissure 

 between the oral plates, it probably rested just upon their edges, 

 and formed an intermediate link between the vault structure of 

 the Cyathocrinidse and Platycrinidfe. 



In the Actinocrinidfe and Rhodocrinidoe, the alternate dome 

 plates are not so readily distinguished, as in the Platycrinidfe 

 and forms with free rays, in which they are well marked in the 

 extended parts. In the recent Crinoids the alternate plates are 

 represented by the " Saumpliittchen," which, however, instead of 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 205 



forming a part of a solid vault, are movable, and line the lateral 

 margins of the tentacle furrows. 



The proximal and central dome plates are altogether unrepre- 

 sented in recent Crinoids. This is best perceived by comparing 

 CoccocrnnuH as usually preserved, with Hyocrinus or other recent 

 genera in which the oral plates are developed. In both cases, 

 there is at the oral centre an opening at which the grooves con- 

 vei-ge, surrounded by the oral plates ; but, while in Hyocrinus and. 

 all recent genei-a this opening is unobstructed b}" solid parts, in 

 Coccocrinus, Gyathocrinus^ and the Palaeocrinoids geuerall}', it is 

 covered by the apical dome plates. The central piece generally 

 occupies the median portion of the vault, and always indicates 

 the centre of the oral system. 



We have already noted narrow grooves upon the inner surface 

 of the vault, which meet on the central piece, and follow the 

 median line of the radial depressions and galleries to the arm 

 openings. Only three main grooves meet at the centre, those of the 

 two lateral rays are uniting before reaching that point (PI. XVIII, 

 fig. 1). The grooves are best observed in natural casts of the 

 interior, in which they appear on the surface in the form of narrow 

 bands or ridges (PI. XIX, figs. 5 and 9). The position of the 

 grooves indicates that they may have contained axial cords in 

 connection with a nervous system located beneath the central 

 plate. The location of the nervous system within the regions of 

 the ambulacral centre is in analogy to the structure of other Echi- 

 noderms, except the Comatulidffi, in which, according to P. 

 Herbert Carpenter, the principal nervous systems are located at 

 the apical side, and in connection with the quinquelocular organ 

 which occupies the cavit}- of the centrodorsal plate. ^ 



The interpalmar fields are composed of a soft skin, but although 

 this is more or less incrusted with limestone particles, which 

 sometimes almost look like vault pieces, they have no affinities 

 with the plates of the vault. The plates of all recent Crinoids 

 are perforated with numerous pores for the introduction of water 

 into the body, a function which could not well be pei'formed by 

 the interradial pieces, but much less by the solid undivided oral 

 plates of Gyathocrinus and Goccocrinus. In the Cyathocrinidse, 

 these functions may have been performed by the ventral sac 



1 On some points in the anatomy of Pentacrinus and lihizocrinus. Jour. 

 Anat. and Phys., vol. xii p. 35. 




20r> PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



■which is profusely punctured, but evidentl}^ not by the simpler 

 ventral tube of the Sphyeroidocrinidse which is destitute of such 

 openings. Nor can we imagine that there was any such communi- 

 cation through the dome proper, its plates are perfectly con- 

 nected at their sutures, and the interradial series especially are 

 strengthened by strong braces within. 



There are evidently closer relations between Cyathocrinus and 

 Hyocrinus or genera with oral plates, than between the Penta- 

 crinidffi and Sphaeroidocrinida?, in which those plates are either 

 unrepresented or greatly modified. The latter two types form 

 the extremes, and are probably more distant in their relations 

 with each other, than most Blastoids and Cystideans from the 

 Palaeocrinoids. 



The affinities of the Palaeocrinoids with the Blastoids, become 

 more apparent by our recent discover}^ of hydrospires in a speci- 

 men of TeJeiocrinus. Their exact construction has not j^et been 

 fully ascertained, but that such organs existed in some of the 

 Actinocrinidoe is now demonstrated beyond a donbt. The speci- 

 men is fragmentary, it was obtained from a narrow cherty band of 

 the Upper Burlington Limestone, and is itself silicious. The 

 interior is solid, with the exception of a natural concavit}' beneath 

 the vault, at which point it was broken in quarrying, exposing a 

 part -of the upper face of the tubular skeleton. Portions of two 

 tubes only are visible, and these are broken transversely after 

 their second branching, the fracture giving a cross-section of the 

 tubes and surrounding parts. In Teleiocrinus as in Strotocrinus 

 proper, the lateral rim contains radiating tunnels formed by par- 

 titions between the divisions of the raj^s. The tunnels, as observed 

 by us in several specimens, are divided transversely into two com- 

 partments, of which the upper one is occupied by the ambulacral 

 tubes (PI. XIX, figs. 16 and 8). In the specimen under considera- 

 tion the lower or dorsal compartment has a semicircular outline, 

 and witliin this, below one of the branches of the ambulacral tubes, 

 there are visible two distinct folds, closely resembling the folds 

 in the hydrospires of Granatocrinus (PI. XIX, fig. 3). Beneath 

 the adjoining branch, the folds cannot be so well distinguished, 

 but the outlines of the h3'drospifes are also there faintly indicated. 

 Considering that the arms in the Blastoids are inverted and 

 recumbent, and that their calcareous portions represent not onl}' 

 he solid parts of the arms, but also a part of the test, it M'ill be 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 207 



seen that the hydrospires above noted, and those of the Blastoids, 

 have not only a similar form, but also a very similar position.^ 



The hydrospires of the Crinoids, like those of the Blastoids, are 

 placed in close proximity to the arms with which they were 

 probably in communication, close to the test and within the general 

 cavity of the body. 



The above is, to our knowledge, the only case in which hydro- 

 spires have been observed among the Sphaeroidocrinidae, but thej^ 

 were probably present in other genera, and perhaps in the Palseo- 

 crinoids generally- ; while these organs are unknown in all later 

 and recent Crinoids, and in other groups of Echinoderms. 



It is a fact worthy of note that all Cystideans and Blastoids, 

 and so far as known, all Palaeocrinoids which possess hydro- 



' The vault in the Blastoids, as we understand it, consists not merely of 

 the plates which cover the oral opening, but extends all along the median 

 portions of the pseudambulacra (PI. XIX, fig. 3), "forming underneath a 

 good-sized tunnel, which we take to be the bomologue of the ambulacra! 

 tube of the Crinoids. If this interpretation is correct the structure bears 

 the closest similarity to that found in those Crinoids in which the vault is 

 extended into free rays, and in which these extensions combine to some 

 degree the characters of. the arms and body. The recumbent arms of the 

 Blastoids are, according to this, lateral extensions of the body which 

 take the place of true arms ; but while in the Crinoids the radial exten- 

 sions give off regular arms, in which the ambulacral tubes are converted 

 into grooves, the corresponding parts in Blastoids remain attached to the 

 body, and the pinnules form the only free appendages. It is possible, how- 

 ever, that in the Blastoids the lateral furrowswhich traverse the ambulacral 

 fields were not covered by plates, and that these correspond to the open 

 arm grooves — respectively arms— in Crinoids. 



Dr. Hambach (Contributions on the Anatomy of the genus Pentremites, 

 p. 7) is probably correct in supposing that the pinnules of the Blastoids 

 were not connected with the pores, as hitherto believed. We think it 

 probable that they rested in the funnel-shaped pits which alternate with 

 the pores, and which communicate with the lateral grooves of the pseud- 

 ambulacra, while the pores probably communicated with the hydrospires. 

 This view coincides with what we have heretofore suggested, that the upper 

 face of the pseudambulacra corresponds to the grooves within the arms of 

 the Crinoids. and indicates that there are close affinities between the 

 ambulacral field itself and the solid portion of the arms. The passage 

 directly beneath the field is probably the dorsal or axial canal, which by 

 the inverted position of the arms became the inner instead of the outer 

 passage. The hydrospires in the Blastoids are placed beneath the canal, 

 and extend along the perivisceral cavity of the body, like in the case ot 

 Teleiocrinus. 




208 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



spires had a subtegminal mouth, and a solid test built up 

 of plates so closel}^ fitted togetlier that expansion or contraction 

 was impossible. Expansion in some parts, however, was neces- 

 sary to produce circulatory currents for the introduction of food. 

 In most Echinoderms, including all recent Crinoids, this is accom- 

 plislied by means of the pliant test and soft appendages which 

 surrounded it. The Echini alone, like the Paleozoic Crinoids, have 

 a rigid test, but the}'^ possess an external mouth, and in addition 

 to their numerous soft appendages a movable actinal membrane, 

 capable of considerable expansion, even in some cases beyond the 

 line of the actinostome. It seems to us not unlikely that the 

 h3'drospires served the purpose of gills, producing by their con- 

 tractions and dilatations the requisite circulation to introduce 

 food and expel the refuse matter. This would account for their 

 absence in the recent Crinoids and other Echinoderms, and would 

 suggest that they were probably connected with numerous soft 

 appendages along the arms, arranged perhaps in like manner as 

 the pores along the ambulacra of the Blastoids, but not as in the 

 Cystideans, in which the pores which connect with the hydrospires 

 are distributed over different parts of the body. A better knowl- 

 edge of these organs, as they exist among the three great divisions 

 of the Paleozoic Crinoids, would doubtless afford far more satis- 

 factory characters for separation than we now possess. 



In the abdominal cavity of the Paheocrinoidea, the only structure 

 which has been observed consists of a peculiar skeleton located 

 beneath the tubular canals, which from its position, in analogy to 

 other Ecliinoderms, has been referred to the digestive apparatus.^ 

 In its usual preservation, it is a large convoluted body resem- 

 bling the shell of a Bulla, open at both ends. The upper end is 

 placed beneath the centre of the vault, and the lower directed 

 toward the base. It is dilated above ; contracted below ; its 

 surface about parallel with the walls of the visceral cavity. In 

 some species it is subcylindrical, with the vertical axis the longer ; 

 in others globular or even depressed globose ; but it is always 

 truncate below, and never extends to the inner floor of the basal 

 plates. The walls are coiled without touching at any point, and 



> Meek and Wortlien, Geol. Rep. 111., v., p. 328, call it a convoluted sup- 

 port of the digestive sac. Wachsmuth, Am. Jour. Sci. Aug., 1878, p. 135, 

 terms it the " alimentary canal. ' 




1881,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. i^09 



the convolutions are directed outward from left to right, varying 

 in number from two to four in different species. 



In the usual state of preservation the walls are perfectly solid, 

 almost like a " convoluted plate " as which it was described by 

 Hall. In transverse sections, they are seen to be strong, and 

 appear to be constructed of two partitions closely fitted together 

 and united at the edges. The unusual thickness and apparent 

 double natui'e of the walls in these specimens misled Wachsmuth 

 in 1877, who considered the walls to be the body of the alimentary 

 canal. This is evidentl}- a mistake. We now know, from a num- 

 ber of other specimens, that the wall was simple in all cases, very 

 delicate, and constructed of an extremely fine filigree work, which 

 generally in the fossil became thickly incrusted with silicious 

 matter on both sides, thus producing the apparent duplication of 

 the wall. In good specimens, a magnifier fWiows the wall to be 

 composed of an extremely fine network of minute pieces or bars, 

 with intervening meshes. These bars, according to Meek and 

 Worthen, " do not intersect each other at anj- uniform angle', but 

 anastomose so as to impart a kind of irregular regularity to the 

 form and size of the meshes." 



That this network was in some wa}' connected with the diges- 

 tive organs, is no doubt true, but whether it formed a mere sup- 

 port for the digestiA^e sac, as Meek and Worthen suggested, or 

 was an extensive plexus of blood vessels surrounding the ambu- 

 lacral canal, is a question we are as yet unable to solve. It should, 

 however, receive a more appropriate name than any yet given, and 

 we propose to call it the " oesophageal network," which may be 

 changed when its special functions and aflftnities are discovered. 



One of the writers found a specimen of Actinocrinus, in which 

 the convolutions were nearly intact, and b}'^ removing the outer 

 fold, the inner or upper end, as distinguished from the outer or 

 terminal part, could be examined (PI. XIX, fig. 12). The organ 

 has the usual dense structure, and where it comes into view, is an 

 elongate tube, which passing downward widens at first gradually 

 to near the middle of the visceral cavity, then rapidlj^ until it 

 attains a width equal to two-thirds the entire length of the cavity. 

 The upper part descending spirally turns from right to left, but 

 on becoming wider the whorls are abruptly reversed , and there- 

 after the convolutions are from left to right. The outer end also 

 tapers rapidly, assuming the form of a flattened tube, and ascends 



15 




210 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



spirally on tlio outside, while the other end is directed toward the 

 oral centre, but a connection with the food grooves has not yet 

 been observed. 



In all cases where the oesophageal network has been examined, 

 among the Actinocrinidai and Platycrinidse, it varies only in out- 

 line and in the number of whorls ; while in Ollacrinus the entire 

 skeleton resembles a large spiral. In the only specimen observed, 

 it apparently consisted of a large round canal, which turned 

 spirally on its axis, and which near the basal plates turned 

 upward, but the organ is in a fragmentary condition, and it is 

 ((uite possible that this part was surrounded by other convolu- 

 tions. Until recently this organ had been observed only in 

 crinoids from the Burlington group. Angelin, however, in the 

 Icononographia Crinoideorum Suecise, figures several examples 

 from the Upper Silurian of Sweden ^Pl. 26, figs. 12, 12 a, 6, ). It 

 is well preserved in these specimens, and resembles that of later 

 Actinocrinida\ It differs, however, in being closed at the outer 

 side, while the inner parts, as in Burlington specimens, are 

 distinctly coiled. The outer wall is pentangular in outline, open 

 toward the basal disk, and consists of a very delicate porous 

 texture, appearing like an envelope for the inner or coiled parts, 

 and as such possibly represents the perivisceral plexus, which in 

 some cases almost equals the oesophageal network in delicacy of 

 structure. 



8. Column. 



The column in the SphseroidocrinidiB is generally circular 

 transversely, though sometimes elliptical or pentagonal and even 

 quadrangular. It is elliptical only in Platycrinua^ and the 

 pentagonal form occurs only in Befeocrinus and some few 

 species of the Glyptocrinites. The central canal varies from large 

 to extremely small, and is round or pentagonal. In Platycrimis 

 it is so minute that in columns of an inch or more in thickness 

 on their long diameters, the opening will scarcely admit the point 

 of a needle. In the Rhodocrinidse it is irregularly^ pentagonal, 

 and as a rule small. Among the Actinocrinidte also, the passage 

 is generally not aboA'e medium size, but in Megistocrinus it is 

 remarkably large throughout the column and all its branches. 



B}' the earlier writers, new species were often based upon frag- 

 mentary columns, a practice which ha^ fortunately been aban- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 211 



doner! , since it became known that the different parts of tlie column 

 in the same specimens are often widely dissimilar. 



In the growing animal, new columnar joints were continuallj- 

 introduced b}^ interpolation between the older segments, and these 

 younger joints, which are found throughout the column in all stages 

 of development, produce striking changes in the general aspect. 

 The column matured from the root upward, and the upper part 

 remained throughout the life of the crinoid in a kind of immature 

 state, wherein the intercalated joints did not attain the width of 

 the others. The uppermost joints, however, although they were 

 probabl}' among some of the earliest developed parts of the col- - 

 umn, are not separated b}" smaller joints. Gradually, sometimes 

 between the third and fourth joints, new plates make their appear- 

 ance ; the first one so thin as to be scarcely visible, the next which 

 lies between the succeeding joints much larger, the third probaltl}'. 

 reaching full size. Secondary intercalations follow between the 

 new pieces, the intervening spaces between the larger joints 

 increasing gradually to a maximum, from which point down tliQ 

 column seems to be mature, for all succeeding spaces have a like 

 number of intercalated joints. As a general rule, the column 

 decreases somewhat in thickness from the calyx for a certain dis- 

 tance down, after which it increases again towai'ds the root. In 

 some species the primary joints are only longer, but not of greater 

 diameter than the others. This is the case inPlatycrinus where 

 the new joints seem to have been formed directl}- beneath the 

 calyx, their number increasing in length gradually along the 

 stem, and not in sections as in the Actinocrinid* and the 

 Rhodocrinidte. 



Lateral cirrhi along the column have been rarely observed, and 

 in this famil}^ probablj' existed only toward the root. The form . 

 of the root is exceedingly variable, and depended evidently upon 

 the conditions of its place of attachment. When living in a soft 

 or sandy soil, it seems to have been provided with a great number 

 of small rootlets which are given off both vertically and horizon- 

 tally ; but when it was attached to a rock or other hard substance, 

 the lower surface grew entirel}- flat and was often deeplj- grooved. 

 The grooves pass out from the root, and apparently took the 

 place of the vertical rootlets. The central passage extends to the 

 smallest rootlets and is often of considerable size. "We have 

 already noted this fact in Part I, and suggested that probably the 




:il2 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



rootlets may have had respiratory functions by introducing water 

 into the bod}'. 



In adult specimens of ActinocrinidiB and Rhodocrinidaj the 

 column was long. We have never seen its full length, but have 

 in several instances traced it three to four feet without seeing 

 either root or body, and we suppose that it was in some genera 

 very much longer. 



Of Plati/cri7ius, however, we have examined five complete speci- 

 mens measuring from the tips of the arms to the extreme ends of 

 the fine rootlets from t to 27 inches — the latter in a large species. 

 In all these specimens, the column gives off for some distance 

 large lateral branches, which decrease in size toward the end of 

 the root, each one with irregular branches which divide again and 

 terminate in hair-lilie tubes. We never saw a Platycrinus in 

 which the root was flattened, as in some of the Actinocrinidae, 

 and it seems possible that the crinoids of this genus only grew 

 on a soft bottom, or possibly floated about with their column like 

 an anchor. The same was evidently the case in the genus Glyp- 

 tocrinus, in which the column was short, tapering to almost a 

 needle's point, without lateral branches. 



9. Mode of Growth and Pal^ontological Development. 



In the Pentacrinoid larva of Antedonj the calyx is composed 

 chiefly of very distinct, rather large basals, alternating with which 

 are five dots, which represent minute radials. The crinoid at this 

 stage consists only of five, columnar joints, the large basals, the 

 rudimentary radials, and of five large oral plates which cover the 

 entire peristome. The succeeding radials, at first unrepresented, 

 develop afterwards, and the arms make their appearance at a 

 much later period. 



Of the Palaeocrinoids, the first stages are, of course, unknown, 

 all the specimens we have discovered— even the very youngest — 

 being already provided with arms, and hence were considerably 

 advanced in the scale of growth. It can be ascertained, however, 

 by a comparison of larger and smaller specimens, that their mode 

 of growth must have been similar to that of Antedon. In the 

 smaller, and as we consider them, younger specimens, the basals, 

 compared with the other ])lates, are much larger, being almost the 

 same size as in mature individuals. Next in size are the first 

 radials, which are larger than the second and third. In the inter- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 213 



radial series the first plate is iiiueh the largest, and the number of 

 interradial and anal plates is considerably less in }■ onng specimens 

 than in the adult, thus indicating that the calyx in these crinoids 

 was developed from the basals up, as in their living representa- 

 tives. 



With the development of the first interradial, apparentl}^ simul- 

 taneous with the second and third radials, the Platj'crinoid form, 

 the simplest of the Sphaeroidocrinidoe was complete. The earliest 

 tj'pes of the Platycrinidje known to us, but evidently not the 

 earliest representatives of that group, are from the Upper Silurian. 

 In Coccocrinus the body is composed of three basals, two by five 

 radials — the first very much the larger — a single interradial, and 

 five large oral plates, exactly as we must expect from analogy to 

 find the Actinocrinoid in its earlier phases. The ra3's in the 

 Platycrinoid are free from the primary radials up, but the first 

 joints of the two main divisions are simple and constructed similar 

 to the radials in the hodj of the Actinocrinidae. To transform 

 the Platycrinoid into an Actinocrinoid, it only requires the inter- 

 polation of one or more interradial pieces between the proximal 

 plates of the first division of the ray. By this simple process, the 

 plates which were before free in the Platycrinoid, were incorpo- 

 rated into the body, and raised to the dignity of secondarj^ radials. 



Many of the earlier Rhodocrinidse and Actinocrinidse are char- 

 acterized by highly elevated ridges, which extend all along the 

 radial series of the body. They run verticall}^ along the middle 

 of the primary radials, divide upon the third plate, and branch to 

 the secondary and tertiar}^ radials, whence they pass very gradu- 

 ally into the arms. The ridges are very prominent, rounded 

 exteriorly, and as they approach the arm bases, assume nearl}^ the 

 shape and size of the arms. The plates upon which they are 

 extended, in their upper series, scarcely difier in length from the 

 first free arm plates, and all graduall}^ diminish upward. The 

 longitudinal ridges are evidently not accidental, nor a mere orna- 

 mentation, but represent the arm joints as they were when first 

 developed in the young animal. In this early stage they were 

 round joints, the lateral wing-like extensions being developed 

 afterward, when by reason of the upward growth of interradial 

 and interaxillar}^ pieces, the plates became parts of the body. We 

 find on the surface of many internal casts of forms belonging to this 

 group similar but narrow ridges, which follow the same direction 




214 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



as those upon the test. The ridges in these cases are evidently 

 the impressions of rudimentar}* grooves, indicating that the plates 

 at that stage were provided with ambulacral furrows like regular 

 arm plates. The}' also had pinnules attached, which like the arm 

 plates were by the growth of the animal absorbed into the calj'x. 

 The fixed pinnules, which Wetherb}- describes in Glyptocrinus 

 Piichardsoni, Cincinnati Soc. Xat. Hist., 1880, and which we found 

 also in Gl. decadactylus and Reteocrinus O^Xealli, confirms our 

 views as to the mode of growth of the Palffiocrinoid, and throws 

 light upon the palasoutological development of Crinoids generally. 

 The number of secondary radials varies considerabl}' with age. 

 In Reteocrinus O'Nealli we have observed as many as seven, but 

 the number may be even more in some cases ; and on the other 

 hand we found in some younger specimens onl}' three or four. 

 The first and second of these plates, and the third and fourth 

 seem to have been united b}' syzygies, at least the first and third 

 bear no piijuules, while beyond the fourth pinnules are given off 

 regularl}' from alternate sides as in the free arms. The proximal 

 pinnule is given off toward the outer side of the ra^y, or, which is 

 the same thing, toward the iuterradial area, the next one toward 

 the interaxillary space. The plate which gives rise to the first 

 pinnule has almost the form of a bifurcating plate, but instead of 

 supporting radials of a higher order, it bears on its inner sloping 

 side a tliird secondary radial, and on the outer a stout pinnule. 

 The first fixed pinnule is highl}' elevated above all other plates of 

 the interradial space, is rounded like the radials, and almost as 

 conspicuous. In one of our specimens it consists of five plates, 

 three of which are soldered into the bod}^, and the fourth appar- 

 ently free. The fixed plates are nearly as strong as the radials 

 and may be easily taken for them, having lik6 them winged exten- 

 sions by which the}' are laterally connected with the interradial 

 plates. The upper joint is much smaller and constructed like the 

 joints of the free pinnules. The second pinnule has only two 

 joints in the body, the third but one, which in either case are 

 larger than any of the free joints, but which already attain some- 

 what more the aspect of regular pinnules, and are gi^-en off in a 

 similar manner. In a specimen of Glyptocrinus Richardsoni, 

 kindl}' loaned to us b}' Prof. Wetherby, the first fixed pinnule is 

 given off from the second plate above the first bifurcation, and 

 consists of seven plates within the body, the third and fourth 




J881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 215 



plates were joined by sj^zj'gies. The second pinnule, with but 

 four joints within the body, springs from the opposite side of the 

 fourth plate. The fifth plate, instead of a pinnule, supports a 

 regular arm, and the sixth again a pinnule, but from the same 

 side as the preceding pinnule. This is important as it suggests 

 the idea that the pinnule may have here developed into an arm. 

 That a transformation of this kind took place in some groups, is 

 more than probable, as will be shown presently. In Glyptocrinus 

 decadactylus only the second and third secondary radials are 

 joined b}^ s^'zygies, all succeeding pinnules being given off regularly. 



The number of arms has been considered of specific importance 

 among the Pal£eocrinid?e, and even genera have been based upon 

 this character. The greatest variation in the arm formula is found 

 among species of the tjpical Actinocrinidae, in which we include, 

 besides the genus Actijiocrinus, also Strotocrinus^ Teleiocrinus, 

 Physetocrinus and Steganocrinus. These genera agree in the 

 style of their ornamentation, and in the construction of the anal 

 area, which differs somewhat from that of all other Actinociinida?. 

 It is to be noted that in this group the specimens have, as a rule, 

 the same number of arms in the different rays, the few exceptions 

 being due to deficient or abnormal development of these parts. 



The genus Actinocrinus has been ver}- appropriately separated 

 by Meek and Worthen into two sections. The one, with Actino- 

 C7-inus prohoscidialis Hall, as a type, has the arm-bases arranged 

 in a continuous series all round ; the other, with Actinocr. midti- 

 radiaius as tj^pe, has the ra3S formed into more or less protuberant 

 lobes. 



A. proboscidialis of the first section, which represents the 

 simplest form of this interesting group, has only four arms to the 

 ray. The first departure is A. reticulatuii with four arms in all 

 but the two posterior rays, which have five ; the fifth arm where 

 it exists, being placed below the line of the others and appearing 

 somewhat crowded. Next in order are A. limahrachiatus and A. 

 clarus with five arms, in which one of the divisions in each ray 

 divides again. A. sexoTinatus and A. ojjusc^dus have six arms or 

 three to each division of the ray. A. muUihrachiatus and A. 

 penicillus have probably six, seven or eight arms, without regu- 

 larit}^ as to arrangement or distribution. A. ccelatus and A. spino- 

 (entaculus have a greater number than anj' other species of this 

 section, having normally eight arms to each ray. 




216 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



On examining a large collection of the different species, it will 

 be found that a separation according to the number of arms is 

 not so satisfactory as might be expected, for only a few specimens 

 will be found — except the four-armed ones — which agree with the 

 given arm formula of the species. The majority will be found to 

 have in one or more rays very irregularly, either a surplus or a 

 deficiency of arms, and the greater the number of arms a species 

 possesses, the oftener such irregularities occur. The difficulty of 

 identifjdng these species is further increased by the similarity — 

 we might almost call it identity — of general form and ornamenta- 

 tion, which prevails throughout the group. 



The gradual increase of arms would naturally lead us to inquire 

 whether it might be connected with the growth of these crinoids — 

 an idea which seemed at first plausible, inasmuch as the above 

 species are found exclusively in the Lower Burlington beds ; but 

 an examination of specimens, with the arms in place, shows that 

 such is not the case. Specimens with four arm openings in the 

 body to each ray, have also four simple arms, while they 

 should have, if representing a younger stage of the six- or eight- 

 armed species, the same number of arms as the adult, with the 

 bifurcations taking place beyond the body as in Platijcrinua. 

 The fact is, however, that the arms of A. proboscidialis are not 

 only simple, but from the base up, are composed of a double 

 series of pieces, while the plates which should form the higher 

 orders of radials in the adult are entirely absent. 



In Strotocrinus^ which is closely related to Actinocrinus, the 

 variations in the number of arms are still greater, being among the 

 different species from eight to twentj^-four to the ray. Strofocri- 

 nus has also been divided b}^ Meek and Worthen into two sections ; 

 the first including species with a simple anal opening directly 

 through the vault, which they call the typical form, and the second, 

 those with a large sub-central anal tube, for which we have pro- 

 posed the sub-genus Teleiocrinus. The ornamentation among the 

 different species of the two sections is remarkably similar, only 

 that in some species the striations are more prominent, in others 

 the nodes. The most important feature of the genus is the pecu- 

 liar rim, which extends out horizontally from the body, formed of 

 the higher orders of radials, which are connected by interradial, 

 interaxillar}^, and some other apparently accessory pieces. In the 

 allied Actinocrinus spinotentactdiis with eight arms to the ray, 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 217 



the Slrotocrinus rim is alreadj' indicated, and in specimens in 

 which the arms are preserved, their lower portions stand out hori- 

 zontall}^ as in that genus; but the plates of these parts are not 

 connected laterall}^ which feature, aside from the difference in the 

 number of arms, constitutes the principal distinction between 

 Actinoci'inus and Teleiocrinus. 



Throughout tliis group, all bifurcations of the ray — after the 

 first — take place on the first plate in each order, only one of the 

 branches dividing again, and this alternately from opposite sides, 

 the other branch remaining simple. The arrangement is such 

 that the bifurcating plates of each primary division of the ray 

 follow each other in direct succession, forming two main trunks, 

 while the plates which remain simple, and are succeeded by others 

 to the edge of the rim, are given off alternately like pinnules. 

 These lateral branches are separated from the main rays by small 

 pieces, and each branch supports a free arm at the edge of the 

 rim. Within the rim, the radial series are conspicuousl}^ marked 

 by sharp carinae or ridges, which pass from plate to plate, and 

 follow both main and lateral divisions, while the small accessor^^ 

 pieces, which connect them, are formed into deep depressions. 

 Comparing the ridges with the elevations we have described in 

 Glyptocrinus^ and which are found in other Silurian genera, the 

 resemblance is indeed very striking. The ridges in the latter 

 extend over the primary-, secondar}', and sometimes over the ter- 

 tiary radials, and pass gradually into arms ; but while we find in 

 Glyptocrinus very strong arm-like pinnules, there are in Slroto- 

 crinus and Teleiocrinus pinnule-like arms, both included within 

 the body walls, and both springing off laterally like ordinarj'^ pin- 

 nules. The lateral branches in the rim of Slrotocrinus were 

 evidently pinnules in the young animal, and free as in the younger 

 stage of Glyptocrinus^ but with growth gradually developed into 

 regular arms; while those of the latter remained as pinnules 

 during lifetime. This explanation accords with the construction 

 of pinnules, which is so similar to that of arms, that it is in 

 many cases exceedingly^ dilficult to draw a line between them. In 

 Melocrinus the alternate pinnule-bearing appendages were called 

 by some authors arms, by others pinnules. The branches in 

 Cyathocrinus were called pinnules by Wyville Thomson, and arms 

 by most other authors. 



Following out the observations, it seems probable that all arms 




218 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



above the first bifurcation are metamorphosed pinnules, given oft' 

 from the primary radials. Applying this rule to the case of 

 Actinocrinus and Teleiocrinus, the idea is suggested that A. pro- 

 boscidialis, which is the most common species of the group, and 

 has only four arms to the ray, is in all probability the progenitor 

 of all similar Burlington species, evidently of both genera. In 

 A. recticulalus only the proximal pinnule toward the posterior 

 side was transformed ; in A. clarus one pinnule in each ray ; in 

 species with six arms the first pinnule on the opposite side was 

 added ; in species with seven arms the first and second pinnules 

 of one side, and the first of the other, and so on alternately on 

 opposite sides. Although the increase of arms is frequently 

 attended with some irregularity, the number of arms should here 

 be considered of specific importance, and deviations from the 

 normal number as intermediate steps between the species. 



During the Lower Burlington Limestone epoch, the number of 

 arms never exceeded eight to the ray, but in species even of that 

 number the arms are so crowded together, that they could not 

 have been arranged side by side, were not their lower portions 

 bent outward, in the same direction as we find the rim in Stroto- 

 crinus. In s[)ecies of Actinocrinus with only a few arms, the 

 arms are movable from the base up ; movement is less free in 

 species with six arms to the ra}^, and the facilit}^ of motion is 

 lessened with every increase of arms. This lack of mobility, of 

 course, onl}^ extended to the lower arm joints, which for some dis- 

 tance were so closely crowded together that they could not have 

 moved in any direction, and it was probably in consequence of this 

 inactivity that the proximal arm pieces, which in the simpler forms 

 were free, became gradually connected by growth. This was 

 evidently the first step in the direction of Teleiocrinus. After- 

 wards, by still further increase of arms, additional plates became 

 laterally attached, and in this way the rim was gradually developed. 

 In Actinocrinus the rim was mereh^ indicated by the adhesions of 

 a few plates to the calyx, the primary rays, and their main divisions 

 being still distinctly separate. In Actinocrinus (Strofocrimis) 

 serratus^ Meek and Worthen, which forms a kind of connecting 

 link between Actinocrinus and Teleiocrinus^ only the two main 



' This is the only species from the Lower Burlington beds which might 

 be referred to Teleiocrinus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 219 



divisions of the ra3'S were laterally connected, but the rim is not 

 continuous above the five primar}^ divisions of the ray. 



We have already noticed the presence of small plates inter- 

 polated between the radial portions of the rim, forming sunken 

 areas, and having altogether the appearance of accessory pieces 

 (PL XVIII, fig. I,/)).). A closer examination, however, shows a 

 marked regularity in their arrangement, and there can be little 

 doubt that they represent pinnules, given off alternatelj^ from 

 opposite sides, and soldered into the body walls together with 

 arm joints. This interpretation is confirmed b}' the allied genus 

 Steganocrinus, in which tlie corresponding parts, under more 

 favorable conditions, instead of forming a rim, remained free 

 (PI. XYIII, fig. 3). 



Steganocrinus Meek and Worthen is connected with the other 

 section of Actinocrinus — tj'pe of A. multiradiatus — in the same 

 manner as the A proboscidialis group with Teleiocrinus. In 

 A. multiradiatus and allied species, the third primary radial is bent 

 abrupt!}^ outward, its upper articulating faces which support the 

 higher radials being directed almost horizontally, thereby forming 

 the raj^sinto protuberant lobes, separated by wide and deep inter- 

 radial depressions ; contrary to A. proboscidialis, in which the 

 arms are more or less continuous, and the sides of the calyx 

 nearly straight up to the tertiary radials. We should have sepa- 

 rated the two sections upon these characters, at least subgeneri- 

 cally, if Miller, in establishing the genus Actinocrinus, had not 

 unfortunately chosen for the t3^pe a species which is intermediate 

 between the two, thus rendering it difficult to determine the 

 typical form. It is veiy evident that the structure of the rays of 

 A. multiradiatus did not admit the development of a rim like that 

 of Strotocrinus and Teleiocrinus, as even the most profuse growth 

 could not well have filled the break between the rays, and the 

 spaces between the arms within the ra}^ were amply sufficient to 

 afford them free motion. This we think furnishes a reason wh}^, 

 under similar conditi(ms, the arms and pinnules of this genus, 

 contvar}" to those of Teleiocrinus, remained free during life. 

 Steganocrinus and Teleiocrinus have very close affinities in their 

 structure. In both of them there are five main raj^s — a succession 

 of radials longitudinally arranged — which give ofl" arms alternately 

 and from opposite sides; but, while in Steganocrinus the plates of 

 the difi'erent order of radials are extended into free appendages, 




220 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



with free arms and free pinnules, the radials in Teleiocrinus and 

 their branches and i)innnles, to a certain height, are laterally con- 

 nected and included within the body walls. 



Strotocrinus bears the same relation to Physetocrinus as Actino- 

 crinus to Teleioc7-inus, Physetocriniis differs from the A. prohos- 

 cidialis form, mainly in having a simple anal opening through 

 the vault, instead of a tube, and the same character separates 

 Strotocrinus from Teleiocrinus. 



In E ucladocriniis of the Platycrinidje, the case is the same as 

 in Steganocrinus. In that genus an indefinite number of radials, 

 apparently intersected by syzygies, are formed into long radial 

 appendages, which give off pinnule-bearing arms from opposite 

 sides. It agrees exactly with Platycrinus in the construction of 

 the body, and both have free lateral appendages, in which the arms 

 originate alternately on opposite sides. The arms of Platycrinus., 

 however, are only given off" close to the body, while those of 

 Eucladocrinus, as in Steganocrinus, are given off continuously 

 and the free rays extend almost to the height of the arms 

 (PI. XYIII, fig. 7). 



Not less interesting is the case of Melocrinus, which we take to 

 be a successor of Mariaci'inus (as amended by us). Both genera 

 make their appearance in the Upper Silurian, but, while the former 

 does not survive later than the Silurian, the latter flourishes in 

 greatest profusion in the Devonian. Mariacrinus, in its simplest 

 form, has but four arms to the ra}^, two of which are given off like 

 pinnules from the body toward the interradial spaces, while the 

 two inner ones stand erect, are parallel and lie close together. In 

 other species of the genus, the inner arms give off from one to 

 three additional arms, always directed to the outer side of the ray. 

 The arms are composed of single joints, which bear pinnules in 

 the usual way. The two median arms of the ray, which in Maria- 

 crinus are placed side b}^ side, are connected in Melocrinus by a 

 suture, and appear as a single arm composed of two series of 

 plates, but the suture between them is straight, and the opposite . 

 plates are scarcely ever alternately arranged. That a coalescence 

 of two arms actually took place here, is best demonstrated by the 

 fact, that in the calyx the two parts are not only separate, but 

 often have interaxillary pieces between them, and that each one 

 has a distinct passage. The compound arms of Melocrinus give 

 off at regular intervals, instead of pinnules, lateral arms, which 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 221 



are composed of a double instead of single series of joints, and 

 bear pinnules. The difference from Mariacrinus thus actually 

 consists only in the much greater number of lateral arms, and 

 their being composed of a double series of plates. The increase 

 of arms evidently took place under the same conditions as in 

 Steganocrinus and Uiicladocrinus, the modifications in the arm 

 structure, due originally to individual growth, becoming fixed as 

 generic characters, and following a general rule, by which it seems 

 that the arms in all genera of the Sphieroidocrinida?, on passing 

 into the Devonian, change from single to double joints. 



Let us now consider some cases of Balocrinus in which an 

 increase of arms took place in the species under somewhat different 

 conditions. It has been shown b}- us (Proc. Acad. Xat. Sci. Phila., 

 18*78, p. 230) that Batocrinus Chnjsti, as a rule, has two arms 

 from each arm opening, differing thus from other species of that 

 genus. In the Acfinocrinites, and many other of the Spha.'roido- 

 crinidse, the arm openings are mere breaks in the bod}', and the 

 proximal arm joints consist of single plates, while in Batocrinus 

 they appear more like passages penetrating the test, and the arms 

 from their very base up are constructed of two series of pieces. 

 We have in our collections several specimens, which in ever}'- other 

 respect resemble B. Chrysti except that the}' have single arms. 

 They were obtained exclusively from the lower strata of the Upper 

 Burlington Limestone, the typical form of the species occurring 

 in greatest abundance in the upper la^'ers. The specimens with 

 double arms are generall}^ larger than the others, but we find them 

 also very small, thereby indicating that the modified arm structure 

 had passed beyond the stage of mere individual variation due to 

 growth, and became a permanent character of specific value 

 perhaps. B. Chrysti and its variety with single arms — for which 

 we propose the name B. Lovei — have twent}' arm openings, but 

 at the same time only twenty so called respiratory pores, which 

 are located, as usually in species with twent}' arms, above the 

 interradial and interaxillary areas. In both species the pores are 

 placed at like distances from the arm openings, wliich seems to 

 prove that the additional arm was given off from the opposite 

 side alternately from the pores. The arm starts from the first 

 free arm piece, which is changed into a bifurcating plate, but 

 without materially increasing its size. Toward the close of the 

 Burlington Limestone B. Chrysti underwent some changes, and 




'222 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the variety thus produced has ])een described by Meek and 

 Worthen as B. trochiscus. It has a more spreading disk, a more 

 concave dome, a comparatively lower body, is of larger size, and 

 consequently has more interradials, but otherwise is not different 

 from B. Chrysti. B. planodiscus Hall, which occurs still higher 

 in the Burlington and Keokuk transition beds, and in the lower 

 part of the Keokuk Limestone, is evidently a more mature form 

 of B. Chrysti and B. trochiscus, which by enormous development 

 in the radial regions, and a great increase of interradial and inter- 

 axillary plates, attained a still greater expansion of the disk. In 

 B. Chrysti and B. iyouez, interaxillary plates are wanting; they 

 are occasionally represented b}' one or two plates in B. trochiscus, 

 while B. planodiscus has from nine to eleven, with a similar 

 increase of interradials. In the latter species, the small bifur- 

 cating arm pieces, from which in B. Chrysti the second arms are 

 given off, and also the two succeeding rows of pieces, in both 

 arms, are enclosed within the body walls, the inner row as radials, 

 the other as interradial or interaxillary pieces, which all attain 

 the form and size of the associated plates in the lower orders. 

 B. planodiscus has forty arms like B. Chrysti and B. trochiscus, 

 but they are simple, branching in the body; while the other two 

 species have twenty arms which branch in their free state. The 

 increase of arms no doubt takes place in this group in a similar 

 manner as in Actinocrinus and Strotocrinus, but while in the two 

 latter, the alternate pinnules of onl^- the two main divisions of 

 the ray became arms, in B. planodiscus the proximal pinnule of 

 each arm was thus transformed. 



In B. Chrysti and its allied forms, we find an illustration of the 

 difficulty we often encounter in discriminating between species 

 and varieties. There are apparently four forms represented in 

 that t_ype, of which the two extremes, viewed separately, are well 

 defined specifically as well as geologically, but placed in connection 

 with the two others, they form a series which might well be taken 

 for variations of one species. 



A similar case is presented by a series of specimens obtained 

 from the Keokuk Limestone of Indiana. The collection com- 

 prises nearly two hundred specimens of Batocrinus. but contains 

 comparatively few species. By far the greater number came from 

 Bono, Lawrence Count}^, others from Edwardsville, Floyd Count}', 

 a few from Canton, and the rest from Crawfordsville. The Bono 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 223 



and Edwardsville crinoids, in their general habitus, resemble 

 Burlington fossils, but we have so far not been able to identify a 

 single Burlington species among them, while we found several 

 identical with species from Crawfordsville, though generally 

 smaller. The crinoidal fauna of Canton includes both Bono and 

 Crawfordsville forms, but embraces also some of the huge forms 

 so characteristic of the Upper Keokuk beds of Keokuk, Iowa, and 

 Nashville, Tenn., and which are entirely wanting at Crawfords- 

 ville and Bono. We have not been able to ascertain the exact 

 reUitive age of each stratum, but are inclined to believe that the 

 Crawfordsville bed occupies an intermediate position between 

 those of Bono and Canton on one side, and Keokuk on the other. 



The crinoids to which we allude are easily separated into two 

 groups. Those of the first have flat, somewhat spatulate arms, a 

 subeonical or subturbinate calyx, and a variable arm formula, and 

 are appropriately referred to the genus E retmocrinus, vrhile those 

 of the second, which we refer to Batocrinus, have a globose body, 

 round arms, with arm formula: II, rarely I4. 



Among thirty-two specimens of the first group, all from Bono 

 tliere are twelve which have sixteen simple arms : 44, two others 

 have at one side of the right posterior ray a pair of arms instead 

 of a single arm — the formula may be graphically represented thus : 



1 1 1 111 11-^, and in one specimen we find one of the anterior arms 



1 1 

 represented by a pair, while all the others are simple. The last 



three specimens no doubt are abnormal cases, but they are inter- 

 esting as showing a tendency of the species to an increase of arms 

 in the postero-lateral and anterior ra3's. All the above specimens 

 can be safely referred to a new species which we call Eretmocrinus 

 originarius. 



There are thirteen other specimens, for which we propose the 

 name Eretraocrinus iTj.termedius, which agree with the former 

 in all essential points, having the same peculiar ornamentation, 

 the same form and size, and being derived from the same layers ; 

 but they differ in having, as a rule, in the anterior ray two, and in 

 both postero-lateral rays three additional arms, while the antero- 

 lateral rays are unchanged. The additional arms are given oflT 

 alternately from the two main divisions of the rays as in Actino- 

 crinus. They are simple and in most cases included within the 

 body walls, except in the two posterior raj's, in which the arras 

 arising from the last bifurcation are arranged in pairs. 




224 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



In this lot of crinoids there are two more specimens, one having 



112 111 



twenty -one arms distribnted thus : 1111 1122 , and the other twenty- 



221,222 22 



seven, thus: 22121112. Both agree with the two preceding 



species except in the arm formula, but even this is fundamentallj^ 

 identical with E. originarius, the simple arms of the latter being 

 in part replaced by pairs. None of our Bono specimens have the 

 doubh; arm structure throughout all the rays, but we obtained 

 from Edwardsville and Canton several specimens in which that 

 feature prevails, and for which we propose the name Eretmocrinun 

 adultus. The two irregular Bono specimens may not be the 

 intermediate forms between that species and JiJ. originarius^ but 

 this is probable, and they show how the double arm structure 

 became introduced. 



Scarcely less interesting are some specimens of Batocrinus. 

 Among sixteen examples of a form which we call B. Whitei — eleven 

 from Bono, two from Canton, and three from Edwardsville — there 

 are fourteen with the arm formula: II, while two of them have 

 four arms to the posterior ray. No double arm structure has been 

 observed in this species at Bono, but its apparent representative 

 at Crawford sville has always two arms from each opening. B. 

 Indianensis has the same form and ornamentation as B. Wliilei, 

 and the same arm formula — with substitution of double for single 

 arms — and it evidently bears the same relation to that species as 

 B. ChrysH to B. Lovei, and E. adultus to E. originariui-. 



It would be interesting to pursue this line of examination further, 

 and trace the relations subsisting among other groups similarly 

 connected. But we have perhaps gone far enough to serve our 

 present purpose. It is to be observed, however, that the import- 

 ance of this kind of investigation, in its bearing upon sj- stematic 

 classification, can scarcely be overestimated. It has to do with 

 the principles which lie at the very bottom, and it is only by the 

 study of these relations, of the exact anatomical changes which 

 produced individual variation, and in time permanent modification 

 of forms, that we can hope to arrive at a correct understanding of 

 the groups in nature, or be able to make scientific discrimination 

 of families, genera, species and varieties. 



Many species have been made, upon mere differences of growth; 

 some upon unimportant variations in the arm formula; some upon 

 abnormal development in certain parts of the bod}' ; others upon 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 225 



slight modifications in ornamentation; while still others were 

 founded upon material so imperfect that neither figure nor de- 

 scription suflflciently defines the form. Our literature is so over- 

 burdened with S3'non3'ms that we fear a veiy large percentage of 

 so-called species ought to be eliminated. We have undertaken to 

 point out such cases among the Burlington and Keokuk Crinoids, 

 and although we have been obliged to throw out a considerable 

 number of species, we have only done so where necessity seemed 

 to require it, and we suspect we should not have gone amiss by 

 reducing the list still more. Schultze undertook the same task 

 for the Crinoids of the Eifel, and, although we cannot agree with 

 him in retiring certain genera, we concur in his determination of 

 synonymic species. There are no doubt, also many synonyms 

 among the Subcarboniferous Crinoids of Belgium and England. 

 One of us had an opportunity, several years ago, of studying the 

 original collection of De Koninck in the Museum of Cambridge, 

 and became convinced that the eleven Belgian species of Actino- 

 crinus. described in the Recherches Crin. Carb. Belg., might be 

 safely reduced to four or five. 



10. The SO-CALLED "Respiratory Pores." 



In the first part of this work, on page 11, we called attention 

 to certain pores, located in the body at the arm regions, on either 

 side of the ambulacral openings, and we endeavored to show that 

 they correspond in position with the so-called ovarian openings 

 of the Blastoids. At that time we asserted that the pores were 

 in some genera fixed at a definite number, independent of the 

 number of arms in the species; that Batocrinus, for instance, had 

 alwaj'S twenty pores, whether the species had twenty arms or 

 more, and that one-half the pores were located radially and the 

 rest interradially. In this we were evidently in error ; the pores 

 probably alwaj's agree in number with the arms, and are really 

 neither radial nor interradial, but are placed at the base of the 

 arras. A specimen of Batocrinus subaequalis, now before us, with 

 twenty -two arm openings, has twenty-two pores, and a specimen 

 with twenty -four arms has twentj-four pores. In the former the 

 vault became accidentally detached from the calyx, in such a 

 manner, that we were enabled to follow up in both parts the direc- 

 tion of the pores as they pass into the body (PI. XIX, fig. 4). 

 Neither the pores nor the arm openings penetrate the plates, but 



16 




226 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



both are placed between the sutures and appear as grooves situated 

 witliiu the upper series of radials. The grooves in the calyx are 

 opposed by similar grooves in the corresponding parts of the dome, 

 and pores as well as arm openings enter the body horizontally. 

 The grooves which constitute the arm openings follow the median 

 course, while the smaller grooves, forming the pores, enter ob- 

 liquely from the sides, and join the others at — or just before — the 

 point where they enter the general cavity of the body. The 

 pores which are given off toward the outer arms of the ray are 

 deeper than the rest, and connect with the arm openings at the 

 moment these enter the general cavit3\ Those of the inner arms 

 meet midway in the test, and in case there is another arm between 

 the two divisions of the ray, its pores join the arm passages close 

 to the outer surface of the test. This explains the fact that the 

 partition between the two last-mentioned openings is so rarely 

 preserved, and that these openings are generally found united in 

 the fossil. The arrangement of the pores is similar in other genera 

 of the Actinocrinidae, the pores between the main divisions of the 

 ray being universally more conspicuous than the inner ones. In 

 the Plat3'crinid£e and other genera in which the upper radials are 

 extended into free rays, the pores are located at the base of the 

 arms, not at the base of the free ray, and hence are rarely 

 observed. OUacrinus, so fer, is the only genus in, which, in con- 

 nection with the pores, appendages have been observed. They 

 there form heavy, arm-like extensions, often surpassing the arms 

 in length, with a channel through their centre. The channels 

 unite with the arm passages within the test in a similar manner as 

 the pores in Batocrinus. 



The affinities which are apparent between the pores of the 

 Actinocriuidaj and the ovarian openings of the Blastoids with 

 regard to their position, suggests a probable analogy in their 

 functions, and if the latter served as a madreporic apparatus it 

 would seem reasonable to suppose that tlie pores in the Actino- 

 crinidae did the same. But there are objections to this, and 

 another interpretation is at least possible. From what is now 

 known of the ontogeny of the Palteozoic crinoids, we are inclined 

 to think that the pores maj^ have been originallj^ pinnules, wliich 

 with progressing growth were soldered into the body. This would 

 explain the fj^ct that all pores located beside tlie inner arms are 

 located closer to the arm openings than those of the outer arms, 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 227 



for tliey are pinnules of higher branches in the body, and hence 

 were less deeply enclosed in the test. 



It would be interesting to trace the pores in genera like Glypto- 

 crinus, in which the fixed pinnules retain their forms after they 

 became fixed ; but in those genera the arms are unfortunately 

 located at the edge of the ventral disk, and an examination is diflR- 

 cult. In all carboniferous Crinoids in which the pores are clearly 

 seen, no fixed pinnules can be traced externally in the test, and 

 apparently no free pinnules were attached to the pores, or they 

 should have been found preserved in some of our specimens. 



The proximal pinnules in the recent Crinoids contain the genital 

 glands, and it is at least not impossible that the pores as rudi- 

 mentary pinnules, served as genital organs. Tliis supposition is 

 strengthened by a comparison with the ovarian openings of the 

 Ophiiiridffi and Astrophytidse, which apparently occupy' a very 

 similar position to the pores of the Actinocrinidae. Those, we 

 believe, are said to be in part respiratory and so it is possible that 

 the pores of these Crinoids had both functions. 



As a convenient summing up of our discussion of the Sphaeroido- 

 crinidaj, we give the following 



Condensed Family Diagnosis. 



Body comparatively lar'ge, globular, conical or hiturhinate; plates 

 solidly cemented together, immovable, separated only by sutures ; 

 symmetry bilateral, sometimes almost pe?'fectly pentahedral. 



Calyx composed of basals, radials, inferradials and sometimes 

 interaxillary plates. Underbasals present or absent. Radials in 

 at least two orders, the upper one frequently extended into free 

 rays. Posterior or anal area loider than the four interradial 

 areas, and the arrangement of its plates generally distinct. 

 Ventral disk more or less elevated, constructed of numerous plates 

 forming a free arch, unsupported by oral plates. The plates of 

 the vault are arranged substantially upon the same plan as those 

 of the calyx, and consist of the same elements. Apical dome plates 

 %i'ell defined. Anus inform of a simple opening directly through 

 the vault, or prolonged into a solid tube, perforated at the distal 

 end, but loithout respiratory pores. 



Arms composed of one or two series of 2'>i€ces. Pinnules long, 

 slender, generally in contact laterally. Food grooves and ambu- 




228 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



lacral vessels entering the body through openings in the test, whence 

 they are continued beneath the vault by means of tubes. 



Digestive apparatus composed of a convoluted sac, surrounded 

 by a delicate calcareous network. 



Column long; its cross-section circular, elliptical, sometimes 

 ptentagonal or quadrangular; central perforation small to medium, 

 rarely large. 



A. Sub-family PLATYCRINIDJE Roemer. 

 (Amend. Wachs. & Spr.) 



The name Platycrinidiae has been used by most writers in a full 

 family sense, and in this they seemed to be justified, as most of 

 the genera are by their general aspect readily distinguished from 

 those of the Actinocrinidie and Rhodocrinidae. The differences, 

 however, which produce that particular habitus, are evidently not 

 tlie result of marked anatomical modifications. 



The body of the Platycrinidaj, according to the views of other 

 writers, is composed only of basals, primary radials, and vault 

 pieces, all succeeding plates in a radial direction are considered 

 by them to be arm plates. The rays in this group generally 

 become free from the first axillary, but the extended parts are 

 true extensions of the body, covered like this by regular vault 

 pieces, and these arranged in the same manner, they are not arms 

 in our sense, as they possessed no true articulation. If the 

 respective parts in the Actinocrinidse are to be regarded as 

 radials, then also are those of the Platycrinidse, they compose in 

 the former the sides of the body walls only in adult specimens, 

 in the younger state they form free appendages as in the mature 

 Platycrinidffi. The plates of the extended parts are joined by 

 suture, there is no hinge line, and the articulation was by ligament 

 only, probably similar to that of the anal tube, which certainly 

 was flexible to some extent. 



The distinctions between Platycrinidse and Actinocrinidffi are 

 more readily perceived than described, and seem to be fairly ex- 

 '^ressed by saying that the former represent a younger stage of 

 = the latter, and remained as a persistent type of that stage of 

 growth. The interradial regions are represented by a single 

 plate, leaving the upper radials unconnected laterally as in the 

 j'oung Actinocrinoid. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 229 



A close comparison of the three sub-divisions of the Palaeocri- 

 noidea shows that the modifications which each undergoes, some- 

 times in the same geological epoch, are moi-e or less repeated in 

 all of them. This is particularlj^ the case as to the construction 

 of the arms. The same development from single to double arm 

 joints occurs in all of them, and simultaneously in the Upper 

 Silurian. A similar analog}' is found in the arrangement of the 

 arms. In each group there are simple and branching arms, arms 

 which are given off directly from the bod}', or laterally from free 

 rays, and even the pinnules are arranged in a like manner. The 

 plates of the bod}^ are composed essentially of the same elements, 

 but in the Platj^crinidse comparatiA'ely few plates are enclosed 

 within the cal3'x, many of them, which in the Actinocrinidse form 

 a conspicuous part of the body, being here found in the lateral 

 appendages. In the Platj'crinidse, the calyx proper is constructed 

 almost exclusively of basals and first radials, all higher orders of 

 radials either forming a part of the brachial appendages, or, when 

 partiall}'^ incorporated with the calyx, being insignificant com- 

 pared with the other parts. In this respect thej' exhibit a marked 

 difference from the Actinocrinidse and Rhodocrinidte, in which the 

 higher radials are prominent elements in the calyx. In the Plat}'- 

 crinidse, the interradial plate is pushed into a line between calyx 

 and dome, and appears like a dome plate, though being in fact a 

 part of the aboral side, and analogous with the first interradial 

 in the Actinocrinidi:e, like this it rests upon the upper edges of 

 the two adjoining first radials, which are generally notched for its 

 reception, a position very different from that of the interradial 

 dome plates. In Dichocrinus the radials are not notched, and 

 the plate in question is actually pushed into the dome, but here 

 also, as in all similar cases, a more profuse development of second 

 and third radials within the calyx, would place this plate in posi- 

 tion with the interradials in the Actinocrinidee. 



We have stated in our family diagnosis that the Sphseroidocrinidae 

 have at least one ijiterradial plate; Pterotocrinus seems to be an 

 exception to this rule, but in that genus the family relations are 

 otherwise so clearly expressed, that it seems to us unnecessary to 

 separate it on account of the absence of that plate. Pteroto- 

 crinus is the last survivor, and probabl}^ the most mature and ex- 

 travagant form of the family In its typical species there are 

 not onl}^ secondary, but also tertiary radials enclosed in the 




230 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



calyx, and the plates of the different rays meet laterally in the 

 body. The case is simihir to that of Slrotocrinus ; the arms, as 

 in that genus, are crowded together, naturally producing at first 

 a lack of mobility in the proximal parts of the rays, until eventu- 

 ally the sides became attached. In P. crassus and P. Chester- 

 ensis Meek and Worthen, in whicli the lower arm portions are 

 comparativel}"^ narrower, the connection between the ra^^s is not 

 perfect, especially at tlie posterior side ; while in P. depreasus 

 Lyon, and in all of Wetherby's species, the connection between 

 the upper radial is uninterrupted, and the arms are given off 

 directly from the body, and not from brachial appendages or free 

 rays. In Meek and Worthen's species, in which the first radial 

 plate extends to the top of the calyx, it is apparent that the first 

 plate above, thougli pushed into the dome, is the analogue of the 

 regular interradial plate of the group, but in P. depressus^ in 

 which that plate rests above the tertiary radials, it is probable that 

 the interradial plate proper was pushed inwards, and either 

 became obsolete, or is perhaps visible only at the inner side of 

 the test. 



The construction of the dome has been already so fully dis- 

 cussed that a few general remarks here will suffice. The vault 

 resembles fundamentally that of the Actinocrinidse and Rhodo- 

 crinidoe. The plates are comparatively large, and the apical dome 

 plates very conspicuous. The radial regions are each composed 

 of two rows of plates alternately arranged, which commence 

 either close to the centre plate, or near the edge of the disk, and 

 branch toward the free rays, following their direction, and paving 

 their ventral surface. The interradial regions of the dome are 

 comparativel}'^ large, composed of one, two or more plates. 

 Anus in form of a small tube, <w simple vault opening. Column 

 round or elliptic, never pentagonal ; perforation very small. 



For greater convenience we have divided the Platycrinida^ into 

 two sections : 



A. Platycrinites, including genera with a marked pentahedral sym- 



metry, and without special anal plates in the calyx. 



B. Hexackinites, with a decided bilateral symmetry, and a large anal 



plate enclosed within the calyx. 



The presence of a special anal plate, upon which this division 

 has been based, is somewhat remarkable, on account of the great 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 231 



size of the plate, and the comparatively large space which it occu- 

 pies in the body; but too much importance should not be attached 

 to it, as we find in the Actinocrinidaa and Rhodocrinidse the same 

 variation, and apparently without anj^ disturbance of the relations 

 between the genera. The presence of this plate in the Platy- 

 crinidjB is entirely in harmony with our idea that this group 

 represents a younger stage of the Actinocrinidoe, for this anal 

 plate was early developed in the animal, and is found in the 

 youngest individuals in both groups of equal size with the first 

 radial. 



In 1843, the two Austins proposed (Monogr. Rec. and Foss. 

 Crinoids) the name Platj'crinidae as a family designation, embra- 

 cing the genera Platycrinus, Gyathocrinus and Caryocrinus, 

 without special diagnosis, merely mentioning that those genera 

 " had but few plates below the ray, and thus might conveniently 

 be arranged into a natural group." They placed Marsupiocrinus 

 along with Crotalocrinus under the " Marsupiocrinoidea." 



Not any better is the arrangement of D'Orbigny, who placed 

 Platycrinus under " Melocrinidffi," and Edwardsocrinus and 

 Dichocrinus under the Cyathocrinidse. 



F, Roemer's " Platycrinidffi " (1855. Leth. Geognostica, Ausg, 

 III, p. 228), agree substantially with ours. He brought into the 

 family: Platycrinus, Dichocrinui^, Hexacrinus, CuUcocrinus and 

 llarsupiocrinus, but unfortunately added Atoc7^inus^ and Sym- 

 bathocrinus, the first of which we place under the Cyathocrinidae, 

 and the latter we consider the type of a new famil}-. Pictet 

 (Traite de Paleont., 1857) made his Platycriniens a sub-division 

 of the Cyathocrinidae and enumerates under it the genera Platy- 

 crinus, Edwardsocrinus^^ Amblacrinus,^ Ilarsupiocrinus, Ato- 

 crinus, Symbathocrinus and Adelocrinus* but placed Coccocrinus 

 and Haplocrinus under the Haplocrinidse, following Roemer. 



The arrangement of Zittel (Handb. der Palaeontologie) agrees 



^ Atocrinus McCoy, is evidently a Gyathocrinus in which the sutures 

 between the plates are invisible, owing to the condition of the fossil, and 

 not a Platycrinus as supposed by some authors. The plates of the body 

 and the arras agree exactly with Gyathocrinus, while no Platycrinus of the 

 Subcarbouiferous has single arm joints. 



^ Syn. of Platycrinus. 



^ D'Orbigny, insufficiently defined, probably syn. of Goccocrinus. 



* Phill., insufficiently defined. 




232 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



with that of Rocmer, except that he separates Symbathocrinus and 

 adds Corthjlocrinus and Pterotocrinus which had been established 

 later. He also placed here Storthingocrinus which we propose to 

 transfer to the Sj-nibathocrinidaj. 



The Platycrinidse are first met with in the Upper Silurian, 

 whence they range to the close of the Subcarboniferous. 



We arrange the two sections as follows : — 



a. Platycrinites. 



1. Coccocrinus. 5. Platycrinua. 



2. Cordylocrinus. Subgenus Eucladocrinus. 



3. Culicocrinus. 6. Gotyledonocrinus. 



4. 3Iai'supiocrinus. 



b. Hexacrinites. 



7. Hixacrinus. 9. Talarocrinus. 



8. Dkliocrinus. 10. Pterotocrinus. 



a. Platycrinites. 



1. COCCOCRINUS Job. Muller. 



1855. Muller. Verh. Natuih. Verein Rheinl., xii, p. 20. 

 1860. F. Roemer. Foss. Fauna. Westlich. Tenn., p. 51. 

 1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Palaeont., i, p. 347. 



Syn. Platycrinus Roemer, 1844 (not Miller), Rhein. Uebergangsgeb., 

 p. 63. 



Muller proposed the genus Coccocrinus for a species which had 

 previousl}^ been referred by Roemer to Platycrinus. The two 

 genera are identical in the construction of the calyx, and the 

 summit really forms the onl}^ distinction between them. In well- 

 preserved specimens of Coccocrinus^ the vault is constructed of 

 five large oral plates, which rest upon five interradial pieces. The 

 oral plates are not in contact laterally, but leave five slits, which 

 in the fossil have no floor nor covering, and leave an open space 

 in the centre. It is evident that the central space and open farrows 

 were covered in the animal as in similar genera, and this suggests 

 a closer analogy with Platycrinus than had been suspected by 

 Muller, Schultze, Zittel or Carpenter, who suggested an unob- 

 structed mouth. The interradial plate which rests upon the edge 

 of the first radials is characteristic of both genera, and the two 

 or more succeeding interradial dome pieces of Platycrinus are 

 possibly analogous with the single so-called oral plates of Cocco- 

 crinus. This, if correct, would reduce the generic diflference to 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 233 



that of a compound oral plate in Platycrinus, as against a simple 

 one in Coccocrinus. 



Zittel has arranged this genus with Haplocrinus under a separate 

 family. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body small, globose; calyx constructed 

 like that of Platycrinus ; vault composed of five oral plates, resting 

 upon five smaller interradial pieces. 



Basals three ; two of them equal, the third smaller by half, the 

 suture between the two equal plates directed toward the right 

 posterior ray ; the two sutures in connection with the smaller one 

 directed to the anterior and left lateral rays, thereby disturbing 

 the general sj-mmetr^'^ of the calyx, which otherwise would be perfect. 



Radials 2X5; the first large, quadrangular, its upper corners 

 slightly truncate for the reception of the interradial, and its 

 upper side slightly convex. Second radials narrower by half 

 than the first, and very short ; they are almost quadrangular — 

 although bifurcating plates — on account of the very obtuse angle 

 upon which they support the arms. 



Arms unknown, only a single joint having been discovered, 

 which is small and round. 



Interradials, one to each area resting upon the corners of the 

 first, and between the second radials ; its upper part truncate, 

 deflected towards the summit, and supporting another somewhat 

 larger plate, giving five in the vault, which form a low pyramid. 

 The latter, which are oral plates, do not join laterally, nor in the 

 centre, but leave a median space and lateral slits, which, in perfect 

 specimens, were doubtless closed, the one b}^ the apical dome 

 plates and the slits by small marginal pieces. Posterior side only 

 distinguished by the anal opening, which is placed within the 

 suture of the interradial and oral plate. 



Column small, cylindrical ; central canal round and narrow. 



Coccocrinus differs from HajDlocrinus in having the first radials 

 simple instead of compound, and in the oral plates, which in the 

 latter are formed into compartments for the reception of the arms. 

 It differs from Platycrinus and Gordylocrinus in the summit 

 structure, and from the former also in having the column round 

 instead of elliptical and twisted. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Of the two species referred to this 

 genus, one is from the Lower Silurian of Tennessee, the other 

 from the Devonian of the Eifel, Germany. 




234 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1S44. Coccocr. rosaceus F. Rocmer. fPlatycr. rosaceus) Rhein. Uebergangsgeb., 



p. 03, PI. 3, fig. 3 ; Miiller, 1855. Cocooor. rosaceus, type of the genus. Verb. 



Naturh. Verein Rhcinl., xii, p. 21, PI. 7, figs. 5 a, b, c Bronn, 1860. 



Klasscn des Thierreiohs, ii, PI. 28, figs. 8 a, b, c ; Schultze, 1867. Echinod. 



Eifi. Kalk., p. 89, PI. 12, fig. 13. Devonian, Eifel., Germany. 

 1860. Coccocrinus bacca F. Roomer. Silur. Faun. West. Tenn., p. 51, PI. 4, figs. 5 a, 



b, c. Niagara Gr., Tennessee. 



2. CORDYLOCRINUS Angelin. 



1878. Angelin. Icon. Crin, Suec, p. 3. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeoutologie, i, p. 365. 



Syn. Plntycrinus Hall (not Miller), Pal. N. Y., iii, p. 113. 



Hall (Pal. New York, iii) describes three species under Platy- 

 vrinus which evidently belong to Cordylocrinus. TUey have the 

 same number of radials, and the arms are similarly composed of 

 a single row of joints. The genus should, however, be amended 

 so as to admit species with branching arms. We propose the fol- 

 lowing : 



Genei'ic Diagnosis. — Body small, closely resembling a young 

 Platycrinus. 



Basals three ; unequal, closely anchylosed. Radials 3X5: 

 the first very large ; the second quadrangular, much wider than 

 high, resting within the concave upper margin of the first; 

 the third, which has the proportions of the second, but bifurcating, 

 supports the two primary arms of which each ray is composed. 



Arms simple or branching, composed of single joints. Pinnules 

 long. 



Interradials, one between the upper edges of the first radials, 

 and followed by three or more similar plates in the dome, the 

 number of the latter being greater on the posterior side. 



Form of dome and anus, and condition of the apical dome 

 plates unknown. 



Column cylindrical, joints alternating in size, the larger giving 

 off sometimes at intervals long lateral cirrhi. 



Geological Position, etc. — Restricted to the Upper Silurian, both 

 in Europe and America. 



We place here the following species : — 



1878. Cordylocrinus comtus, Angelin. Type of the genus. Iconog. Crin. Suec, 

 p. 3, PI. 23, fig. 3. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



*1S61. Cordylocrinus parvus, Hall. (Platycr. parvus). Pal. New York, iii, p. 114, 

 PI. 4, figs. 6, 7, 8, 9. Lower Helderberg. Herkimer Co., New York. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 235 



■ 1861. Cordylocr. plumosus, Hall. (Platycr. plumosus.) Pal. New York, iii, p. 



113, PI. 4, figs 1-5. Lower Helflerberg. Herkimer Co., New York. 

 *1861. Cordylocr. ramulosus, Hall. (Platycr. ramulosus. Pal. New York, iii, p. 



115, PI. 4, figs. 10-13. Lower Helderberg. Herkimer Co., New York. 



3. CULICOCRINUS Job. Miiller. 



1855. Joh. Miiller. Verb. Naturh. Verein Rheinl. xii, p. 23. 

 1855. F. Roemer. Lethsea Geogn. Ausgabe iii, p. 243. 

 1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palseont., i, p. 367. 



Syn. Platycrinus Wirtgeu and Zeiler, 1855. Verb. Naturb. Verein, 

 p. 15. 



Miiller proposed Culicocrinus merely as a subgenus of Platy- 

 crinus^ a distinction which seems to us scarcel}^ in proportion to 

 the differences apparent between the two forms, and we therefore 

 propose it as a genus. Zittel even places it with Briarocr'inus 

 under a separate family. Protoeryale confluentina, Roemer (Yerh. 

 Naturh. Yereins, xii, p. 29, PI. 9, figs. 2, 3), is according to Miiller 

 probably identical with Gulicocr. nodosus. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body elongate ; calyx higher than wide ; 

 basals and first radials heavy and nodose ; symmetry almost per- 

 fectly pentahedral. 



Basals three, large ; two of them equal, pentagonal, the third 

 smaller by half and quadrangular ; sutui-es very distinct. They 

 form a pentagon, the central part excavated for the reception 

 of the column; separated from the radials by a deep groove. 

 Primary radials 3X5; the first large, tuberculous, quadrangular 

 in outline but in fact hexagonal, owing to the slight truncation 

 of the upper corners adjoining the interradials ; the second about 

 quadrangular, narrower than the first, veiy short, and three or four 

 times wider than high ; the third vaiying in form and size, but 

 generally triangular. The latter plates mostly occupy only the 

 median portion of the margin of the second radials, in which case 

 the outer ends of those plates aid in supporting the secondary 

 radials ; sometimes, however, they fill the entire width of the 

 second primaries, and the secondary plates rest wholly upon the 

 sloping sides of the triangular pieces. Secondary radials 1 X 10, 

 generally wider than high, supporting two arms to the ray. 



Arms stout, attached laterall}' up to the second or third joints, 

 above which at some distance they branch. They are from the 

 base up composed of two rows of joints, alternately arranged, and 

 meeting by zigzag sutures. 




236 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Interradials : one, placed between the upper corners of the first 

 raclials, higher than wide, narrowing toward the summit, extend- 

 ing to the top of the secondary radials, and abutting against the 

 proximal dome plates. The phite at the posterior area is some- 

 what wider, and supports the anal aperture which is almost lateral. 



The dome, according to MUller, is composed of only five plates, 

 but we suggest that probabl}^ his largest plate includes four plates, 

 the spiniferous central vault piece, the two proximal vault pieces, 

 and a small anal plate between them. The four large pi'oximal 

 vault pieces, each crowned with a spine, are no doubt, correctly 

 represented. Those few plates occupy the greater part of the 

 summit, leaving but little space for the radial dome plates, which 

 as yet are unknown. 



Column round, 



Culicoc?-inus, in its form and general habitus, has the closest 

 resemblance to our genus Talarocrinus, which bears the same 

 relation to Dichocrinus as Culicocrinus to Flatycrinus. In 

 Platycrinus and Dichocrinus, all radials above the first plate form 

 a part of the free rays, while in the two other genera all the 

 primary and even the secondary radials are included in the calyx. 

 This genus further differs from Flatycrinus in having three 

 primary radials, a character which distinguishes it also from 

 Marsupiocrinus, the construction of the vault being likewise very 

 distinct. It differs from Gordylocrinus in the arm structure. 



Geological Position, etc. — The only known species is from the 

 Lower Devonian of Germany. 



1855, Culicocrinus nodosus Wirtgen and Zeiler. (Platycr. nodosus.) Verb. Naturh. 

 Verein, xii, p. 15, PI. 6, figs. 2, 3. Miiller, 1855. Culicoor. nodoEUS. Ibid., 

 p. 24, PI.. 8, figs. 1-4. Grauwacke. Near Coblentz, Germany. ► 



This species is known onl}^ by impressions left in the rock, and 

 casts taken therefrom. 



4. MARSUPIOCRINUS Pbillips. 



(Not Marsupicrinites Blainville = Marsupites Mant., 

 nor Marsupiocrinites Hall. = Lyriocrinus). 



1839. Phillips apud Murchison, Silur. System., p. 672. 



1842. Austin. Ann, Mag, Nat. Hist,, x, p, 109, 



1843, Austin, Ibid., xi, p. 198. 



1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 332. 

 1878. Augelin. Icon, Crin, Suec, p, 2. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 237 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Paljeont., p. 365. 



Syn. Platycrinus F. Roemer, 1860. Silur. Faun. W. Tenn., p. 35. 

 " Cupellmcrinus Troost, 1850. List. Crin. Tenn.. p. 61 ; also 

 Shumard, 1866. Catal. Pal. Foss. North Amer., p. 361. 



Marsupiocrinus has undoubtedly close affinities with Platy- 

 crinus^ with which it has been identified by Joh. Miiller and Hall, 

 but it diftei's in the higlier orders of radials, which, instead of 

 being extended into free rays, form a part of the calyx ; and also 

 in having the column round instead of elliptic, and the canal 

 larger. 



Troost 's genus CupeUsecrinus, which was defined as late as 1866 

 by Shumard, must be considered a synonym of this genus, unless 

 it should hereafter be found that the anus in the former consists 

 of a simple opening through the vault, and not a tube as in the 

 latter, in which case a subgeneric division might be justified. 

 Troost, in his List. Crin. Tenn., mentions several species imder 

 Cupelldecrinus, one of which is probably identical with Roemer's 

 PL Tennesseensis, but none of them have ever been described or 

 figured. 



Angelin's Marsiqnocrinus dubiiis is quite a difierent thing, 

 probably an Actinocrinoid, as is indicated by the basal disk, 

 which, instead of being pentagonal, is hexagonal and divided into 

 three equal pieces. 



Joh. Miiller considered M. coelatus a Platycrinus (Monatsb. 

 Berl. Acad., 1841, p. 201), differing from the Austins, who made it 

 the type of a separate family in which they included the genus 

 Grotalocrinus. Pictet, Angelin, and Zittel view the matter as we 

 do, and place it as a distinct genus. under the Platj'crinidse. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Bod}' globular; calyx low, basin-shaped, 

 the lower portions flat or slightly convex ; sides more or less 

 straight, surface corrugated or ornamented by fine striations ; 

 symmetry perfectly pentahedral ; secondary and tertiary radials 

 forming part of the calyx ; connected laterally by a single inter- 

 radial plate. 



Basals three, large, unequal, arranged as in Platycrinus. 

 Radials 2X5; those of the first row large, meeting laterally, bent 

 abruptly from their connection with the basals, and forming with 

 them a shallow cup, the middle of their upper margins excavated 

 for the reception of a small triangular second radial, which is at 

 least as high as wide, but often higher, and which has convex 




238 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881, 



sides. This plate occupies not more than one-fourth to one-third 

 the width of the first radials, and supports on its upper ^sloping 

 margins the secondary radials. Secondary radials 2 X 5, enveloj)- 

 ing the little bifurcating plate entirely except below. The^'^ are 

 comi)aratively large, pentagonal to heptagonal, meeting by their 

 short inner sides above the apex of the small bifurcating plate, 

 and resting with their lower sides upon the upper margin of the 

 first radial, filling the gi'eater part of it. In some cases they 

 touch with their outer edges the interradials, and support upon 

 their long upper sides several small plates which pass gradually 

 into the arms. In other cases there is on either side of these 

 plates, and between them and the interradial, another plate of 

 about the same size, which sometimes rests also partly on the first 

 radial, and forms the first of a series of three tertiary radials. 

 which support the outer arm on each side of the ray. One, and 

 sometimes two similar tertiary radials support each of the inner 

 arms of the ray. In forms like the last, the secondary radials 

 seem to be bifurcating plates, supporting on each upper sloping 

 face a series of tertiary radials leading to an arm. 



Arms twenty, sometimes perhaps only ten ; composed of a double 

 series of interlocking joints, either throughout their entire length, 

 or all except near the base, where there are sometimes single 

 cuneiform joints passing gradually into a double series. Arm 

 furrow deep and wide ; pinnules long, composed of round joints, 

 somewhat contracted in the middle and widening toward the 

 articulations. 



Interradial plate large, higher than wide, sxipported upon the 

 upper sloping corner of the first radials, and connecting the 

 secondary and frequently the tertiary radials with the body. 

 Posterior side of calyx in no way distinct from the other sides. 



Vault low, hemispherical, composed of a larger number of 

 plates than usually found in this family ; plates small, particu- 

 larly the radial dome plates. These are generally formed into 

 narrow ridges, which bifurcate twice within the bod}-. Inter- 

 radial dome plates larger than the radial ; apical plates not 

 prominent and identified with difficulty ; interpalmar spaces 

 paved with small pieces. Anus subcentral, tubular, or perhaps 

 in form of a simple opening (?), 



Column round, composed of rather large joints alternating 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 23i) 



with small ones ; central perforation obtusely pentagonal, con- 

 siderably- larger than in Platycrinus. 



Geological Position, etc. — Marsupiocrinus is strictly an Upper 

 Silurian genus, and is found both in Europe and America. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1839. Marsupiocrinus coelatus Phillips. Type of the genus. Murehison's Silur. 



Syst., p. 672, PI. 18, fig. 1; Austin, 1842. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., s, 



p. 109. Upper Silurian. Dudley, Eng. 

 1878. Marsupiocr. depressus Angelin. Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 3, PI. 10, figs. 15-17. 



Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Marsupiocr. pulcher Angelin. Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 3, PI. 22, figs. 27, 28 : 



and PI. 27, figs. 4, 4 a. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. M. radiatus Ang. Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 10, figs. 18-21. Upper Silurian. 



Gothland, Sweden. This species was erroneously referred by Hisipger to 



Eucalyptocrinus rosaceus Goldf. 

 1878. M. rugulosus Ang. Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 22, fig. 1. Upper Silurian. 



Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1860, M. Tennesseensis F. Roemer. (Platycr. Tennesseensis) Sil. Fauna. West 



Tenn., p. 35, PI. 3, figs. 4, a-e; Shumard, 1866. Cupellaecrinus Tennes- 

 seensis, Cat. Pal. Foss., pt. i, p. 362. Niagara Gr., Upper Silurian. 



Decatur Co., Tenn. 

 *1861. M. tentaculatus Hall. (Platycr. tentaculatus) Pal. New York, iii, p 116, 



PI. 5, figs. 1-4. Lower Ilelderberg Gr., Upper Sil. Schoharie, New York. 



5. PLATYCRINUS Miller. 



1821. Miller. Hist, of the Crinoidea, p. 73. 



1833. Goldfuss, in part. Petrefact. Germ., i. 



1835. Agassiz, in part. Mem. Soc. Neucliat., i, p. 197, 



1836. Phillips. Geol.of Yorkshire, ii, p. 204. 



1839. Goldfuss, in part. Nov. Acta. Ac. Leop., xix, p. 343. 



1841. Joh. Miiller. Monatsb. Berl. Akad., i, p. 207. 



1842. T. Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109. 



1843. T. Austin, Ibid., xi, p. 199. 



1843. T. Austin. Men. Pec. Foss. Crin., p. 6. 



1849. McCoy. Ann. and Mag, Nat. Hist. (ser. 2), iii, p. 146. 



1850. D'Orbigny. Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 156. 



1852. D'Orbigny. Cours. Elem, de Paleont,, ii, p, 242. 



1852. Quenstedt, in part, Handb. d. Petrefakt., p. 619. 



1853. De Koninck and Lehon. Recherch. Crin. Belg. , p. 155, 

 1855, F. Roemei-. Lethsea Geogn. (Ausg. iii), p. 242, 



1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv. p. 330. 



1858. Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 525. 



1866. Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 170. 



1878. Wachsm. and Spr, Proc, Acad, Nat, Sci, Phila., p. 243. 




240 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1870. Zittel. Handb. d, Palseontologie, p. 364. 



Not Phill., 1841. Pal. Foss. Cornwall, p. 28. = Hexacrinus. 



Not F. Roemer, 1844. Rliein. Ueberg. Geb., p. 63. = Coccocrinus. 



Not D'Orbigny, 1850. Prodr. d. Pal., i, p. 103. = Hexacrinus. 



Not F. Roemer, 1851. Foss. West Tenn., p. 35. = Marsupio- 

 crinus. 



Not Hall, 1861. Pal. N. York, iii, p. 113. = Cordylocrinus and 

 Marsiqnocrin us. 



Not Schultze, 1866. Ecliin, Eifl., p. 68. = Storthingocrinus. 



Not Lyon, 1869. Am. Phil. Soc, xiii, p. 459. = Hexacrinus. 

 Syn. Astropodia Ure., 1797. Hist, of Rutherglen. 

 Syn. Nave Encrinite Parkinson, 1811. Org. Rem., vol. ii. 

 Syn. Encrinites Schlottheim, 1823. Nachtr. Petrefaktenk. 

 Syn. Gentrocrinns Austin, 1843. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 6 

 Syn. Pleurocrinus Austin, 1843. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 6. 

 Syn. Edzoardsocrimts D'Orbigny, 1850. Prodr. d. Paleont, i, p. 156. 

 Syn. Edwardsocrinvs D'Orbigny, 1852. Cours. Elem., ii, p. 145. 

 Syn. Edwardsocrinus Pictet, 1857. Traite de Pal., iv, p. 331. 



Platycrinus was correctly defined b}' Miller, and his original 

 species with the single exception of PI. pentangularis, have been 

 retained in the genus ever since. This species, described from an 

 imperfect specimen, was made b}' D'Orbigny the type of his 

 genus Dimorphocrinus (Prodr., i, p. 155), but is evidently a 

 Pentremites. 



Austin supposed the basal disk to be undivided in Platycrinus^ 

 and admitted into it species whicli have a large anal plate in line 

 with the first radials, but such only in which he thouglit the base 

 to be composed of a single piece ; he refers all species, in which 

 he had " observed a tripartite base," to his genus Hexacrinus, 

 whether they have an anal plate or not. 



The several species which Gold fuss placed under Platycrinus 

 embrace very diflferent forms, only comparatively few of which 

 can be retained, and some of them must be arranged under dis- 

 tinct families. 



Phillips' two species, from the Devonian of Cornwall, have been 

 placed with Devonian species from other localities under Hexa- 

 crinus. 



Roemer's Platycrinus rosaceus is a Coccocrinus, his P. Tennes- 

 seensis, and Hall's P. tentaculatus, both from the Upper Silurian, 

 have been referred by us to Marsupiocrinus ; Hall's P. parvus, 

 P. plumosus and P. ramulosus to Cordylocrinus. 



Schultze, in 1866, described under Platycrimis several species 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PinLADELPHIA. 241 



from the Eifel, which he found to differ from that genus in having 

 no interradials, and, as he supposed, no solid ventral covering- 

 He proposed, in case a separation should be found advisable, to 

 call this form Storthingocrinus. We have no specimens for com- 

 parison, but if the figures are correct, we cannot doubt that these 

 species are not only generically distinct, but belong to a different 

 famil}'. In the entire absence of interradial plates thej' resemble 

 Symbathocrinus, and they seem to have been, like otlier genera of 

 that group, covered exclusively by apical dome plates resting 

 directly upon the external articulating facets of the first radials. 

 We accordingly recognize the genus, but remove it to the Sym- 

 bathocrinidae. 



Edicardsocrinus D'Orbigny, as previously stated, is nothing 

 but a young Platycrinus. Eucladocrinus Meek, is a more mature 

 form in a phylogenetic sense, and is therefore properly separated 

 as a subgenus. 



Platycrinus^ as now restricted, includes species with an anal 

 tube, and those in which the opening is directly through the vault. 

 The tube has been represented by the two Austins and by De 

 Koninck and Lehon as extending almost to the height of the 

 arms, heavy and rounded at the distal end. We fear that some of 

 their figures are more ideal than real ; at least we never saw an , 

 American species with so long a tube. Where we have observed 

 it, the tube is heav}', but short, and we doubt whether in any 

 species it extended to more than two-thirds the height of the 

 arms, if indeed as high. Nor is the upper end closed, as the 

 Austins supposed, nor valvate ; it has a small opening, and this, 

 without being lateral, is somewhat excentric. The opening through 

 the vault, where thei'e is no tube, is located more or less laterally, 

 never centrallj', and usuallj^ at the top of a wart-like process, 

 which may perhaps be considered a rudimentary tube. 



The two Austins attempted a division of the genus, based upon 

 the form of the anus. They proposed to place under Platycrinus 

 only species with a "central 'oral tube ; " those with a " valvate, 

 unobtrusive mouth, or mouth capable of being withdrawn into the 

 visceral cup," they called Gentrocrinus ; and those with a " mouth 

 placed laterally, or not central," Pleurocrinus. Some of these 

 characters are not in accordance with the facts. The so-called 

 mouth, by which they meant the anus, is always excentric, and a 

 withdrawal of the tube into the body, as suggested, is an entire 



17 




242 PROCEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Impossibility. The species of this genus are so numerous that a 

 sub-division would be ver}' desirable, but even a subgeneric sepa- 

 ration, based upon the presence or absence of an anal tube, upon 

 which other genera of this family have been successfully divided, 

 cannot be practically carried out at present, for the reason that 

 these parts are known only in comparatively few species, and we 

 have been unable to discover an}' additional characters by which 

 to separate the two forms. We have, however, added Pleurocrinus 

 in brackets, wherever the species is known to possess a simple 

 opening, and it may be said that, as a pretty general rule, species 

 of their kind have a more discoid form, while those with a tube 

 have a more elongate body ; but there are exceptions in both cases, 

 and often the facts are exactly the reverse. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body spheroidal; low discoid to elongate. 

 Calyx composed of basals and first radials, without anal plates 

 intervening ; all succeeding radials embraced in the free rays ; 

 surface of plates variously ornamented ; symmetry almost equi- 

 lateral. 



Basals three, unequal ; one quadrangular, the other two pentan- 

 gular and twice as large. The}"^ are cemented together b}^ their 

 sides and form a flat disk, or a more or less shallow cup, the 

 smaller basal being located below the suture between the anterior 

 and left lateral radials. Primary radials 2X5; the first very 

 large, about quadrangular in outline, the second small, triangular 

 or pentagonal, resembling an arm plate in form. Second radial 

 inserted upon the excavated upper margin of the first, or upon 

 this and a projecting callosity or thickening of the margin. The 

 plate is sometimes so small that even both radials of the second 

 order rest within the excavation of the first plate. The orders of 

 radials vary in number, corresponding to the number of arms in 

 the species ; each order consisting of two plates, both wider than 

 high, the second bifurcating. All the radials from the second 

 - primar}' up, are placed into free rays, from which the arms are 

 given off alternately from opposite sides, with two arms to the last 

 bifurcation. 



Arms long, rather heavy, composed of a double series of plates, 

 which have the same style of ornamentation as the plates of 

 the calyx. In the younger stage, the arms are composed of 

 single wedge-form joints, giving off pinnules in a zigzag form. 

 Pinnules long, slender, composed of rounded joints, closely packed 




1 881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 243 



together ; their ventral furrows covered by two rows of alternate 

 pieces. 



Interradials, one to each space, placed between the free rays ; 

 supported by the first radials, but not touching the second 

 primary or any other radial plate. 



Dome elevated, composed of comparatively few and large 

 plates; apical dome plates prominent; the central and the four 

 large proximal pieces nodose or even spiniferous. Radial regions 

 somewhat elevated, constructed of a double row of larger or 

 smaller pieces, alternatelj' arranged, which, decreasing in size, ex- 

 tend to the extremities of the free rays. Interradial spaces 

 occupied by three — rarely five — plates, smaller than the central 

 dome plates and less nodose, but j^et comparatively large, and 

 resting upon the interradial of the calj^x. On the postero-lateral 

 sides, there are several additional plates, supporting the arms. In 

 rare cases, the interradial dome plates of different zones are later- 

 ally connected, and the radial pieces are thereby pushed to near 

 the edge of the disk. 



Anus in form of a short, heavy tube, composed of smooth 

 plates ; abruptly rounded at its upper end ; with opening nearly 

 central (Platycrinus)^ or in form of a simple lateral opening 

 through the vault {Pleurocrinus) , 



Column large and twisted ; composed of rather large joints, 

 which increase in length as they recede from the body : central 

 perforation minute. The column is comparatively short, and 

 toward the base provided with numerous lateral branches, which 

 like the main stem, terminate in thin, almost hair-like tubes. 

 The joints are transversely elliptic, each one being twisted so that 

 the long diameters of opposite faces make an angle with each 

 other; and, the articulation being in the long diameters, a rapid 

 twist is imparted to the whole stem, permitting motion in all 

 directions. The stem seems to be regularly articulated, which is 

 not the case in crinoids with a round or pentagonal stem ; the 

 articulating lines run lengthwise of the faces of the joints and 

 consist of a long ridge along the middle, with deep depressions 

 on either side, which latter were evidently filled by ligament. 

 The column forms one of the most characteristic features of the 

 genus. 



Geological Position, etc. — Plat y annus, as here defined, is almost 

 exclusively a Subcarboniferous genus, only two small species (one 




24* PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



of them doubtful) being known from the upper part of the Devo- 

 nian. It is found most abundantly in rocks of the Burlington 

 epoch, which embraces the lower portions of the Subcarboniferous, 

 it ceases to exist at the close of the St. Louis limestone. No 

 other genus of the Palaeocrinoidea has so great a number of 

 species, is so abundantly represented, and has so wide a geogra- 

 phical distribution. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1861. Platyorinus aeqaalis Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 117; also Geol. Rep. III., 

 V, p. 456, PI. 3, fig. 8. Upper Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 



1850. PI. americanus Owen and Shumard. Journ. Nat. Sci. Phila. (ser. ii), ii; also 

 1852. U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., p. 594, PI. 5 b, figa. 1 a, b. 

 Lower Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n. PL trunoatus Hall. 1858, Geol. Rep., Iowa, i, pt.ii, p. 537. Hall in this 

 ease described a young specimen of PL amerioanas. The lower part of the 

 arms are composed of s-ingle, wedge-form joints, giving off the pinnules in a 

 zigzag arrangement. 



1861. PL asper Meek and Worthen. (Pleurocrinus) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 129; also 1868, Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 468, PI, 18, fig. 9. Upper Burling- 

 ton limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 



1853. PL arenosus DeKoninck and Lehon. Recherch. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 182, PI. 

 5, fig. 7. Upper part of Mountain limestone. Tournay, Belgium, 



(?) 1838. PL armatus Miinster. Beitr. zur Petref,, vol. i. Mountain limestone (?). 

 Tournay, Belgium (?). 



1853. PL Austinianus De Koninck and Lehon.fi Recherch. Crin. Carb. Belg,, p. 

 169, PL 5, figs. 3 a, b. Mountain limestone. Tournay, Belgium. 

 Syn. PL trigintidactylus Aust. (in part). Mon. Rec, and Foss, Crin., PI. 3, 

 fig. 1 a (not fig. 1 b-g). 



1875. PL bedfordensis Hall. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal. ii, p. 161, PI. 13, fig, 4, Erie 

 Shale, Waverly Gr. Bedford, Ohio. 



1879. PL bonoensis White. Proc. Acad. Nat, Sci. Phila., p. 30; also 1880, Hay- 

 den's U. S. Geol. Surv. Invert. Pal., No. 8, p. 160, PI. 40, fig. 5 a. Lower 

 part of Keokuk limestone. Lawrence and Floyd Co,, Ind. 



1861. PL brevinodus Hall, Desc, New Sp, Crin,, p, 4; also Bost. Jour, Nat. Hist 

 p, 286 ; separate photog, plate 2, fig, 5, Keokuk limestone. Keokuk, Iowa. 



1860. PL burlingtonensis Ow, and Sh,f Jour, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (new ser.), 



ii, pt. 1; also 1852, U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wis, and Minn,, p, 589, PI, 5 a, 



fig. 5. Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 452, PI. 3, figs. 6 a. 



b,c. Lower Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 

 St/n. PL ezsertas Hall. 1858, Geol, Rep, Iowa, i, pt. ii, p, 539. Described 



from a young specimen, 

 .S^yn. PL inornatUS McChesney. 1860, Desc, New Pal. Foss., p. 6; also PL 



barlingtonensis, Chicago Acad. Sci,, i, p. 9, PI, 4, fig. 3. 



1861, PL calycnlus Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 16. Burlington limestone. Bur- 



lington, Iowa. Hall's description is too imperfect for identification. 



In species marked f , an anal tube has been observed. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 245 



1861. PI. canaliculatus Ilall.f Geo). Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 539. Upper Burling- 



ton limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. PI cavttS Hall. (Pleurocrinus) Geol. Rep., Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 527, PI. 8, figp. 1 



a, b. Upper Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1836. PI. contractus Phillips (Gilbertson). Geol. Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 3, fig. 25. 



McCoy, 1844, Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 175; D'Orbigny, 1849, Prodr., i, p. 



156. Mountain limestone. Ireland and England. 

 1863. PL contritus Hall. 17th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 54; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, 



Pal. ii, p. 166, PI. 11, fig. 4. Waverly Gr. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1850. PI. corragatas Ow. and Sh. (Pleurocrinus). Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 



(new ser.), ii, pt. i ; also 1852, U. S. Geol. Surv. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., p. 589, 



PI. 5 a, figs. 2 a-e. Lower Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. PI. striobraohiatus Hall. 1861, Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 4; also Bost. 



Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 287, separate photogr. plate 2, figs. 2, 3. 



1849. PI. diadema McCoy. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (ser. 2), iii, p. 246. Mount 



limest. North Ireland. 



1850. PI. discoidens Ow. and Sh. (Pleurocrinus) Jour. Acad. Nat Sci. Phila. 



(new ser.), vol. ii, pt. i; also 1852, U. S. Geol. Surv. Iowa, Wise, and Minn., 

 p. 688, PI. 5 a, figs. 1 a, b (not PI. disroideus Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. 

 ii, PI. 8, figs. 8 a, b = Eucladocr. pleurovimenus White). Lower Burling- 

 ton limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



Syn. PI. multibrachiatus Meek and Worthen. 1861, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 134. 



Syn. PI. excavatns Hall. 1861, Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 7; also Bost. Jour. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 286. 



1862. PI. eboraceus Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 119, separate photog. PI. 1, 



figs. 16, 17 ; Bigsby, 1878, Hezaor. eboraceus. Thesaurus Devon., p. 18. 



Hamilton Gr. Livingstone Co., N. York. 

 1861. PI. elegans Hall.f Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 4; also Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 



285. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1836. PI. ellipticus Phillips. Geol. Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 3, fig. 19 (not fig. 21). 



D'Orbigny, 1849, Prodr. i, p. 156. Mount, limest. Bolland, England. 

 Probably synonym of PI. granulatus Miller. 



1861. PI. eminulus Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 17. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 



1862. PI. eriensis Hall. 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 119. Hamilton Gr. Erie Co., 



New York. 

 This is the only species in which three radials have been observed, the upper 

 evidently forming a syzygi'im. It may possibly belong to Cordylocrinus. 

 1844. PI. expansus McCoy. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 175, PI. 25, figs. 18, 19; 

 D'Orbigny, 1849, Prodr, i, p. 156; Roemer, 1855, Lethata Geogn. (Ausg. 3), 

 1st Periode, p. 245, PI. 4^, figs. 14 a, b. Mount, limest. Ireland. 



1860. PL Georgii Hall. Sup. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 82, PI. 1, fig. 7. Warsaw limest. 



Warsaw, 111. 

 1836. PL gigas Gilbertson (Phillips). Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 3, figs. 22, 23; 

 Austin, 1842, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 108; also 1843, Mon. Rce. 

 and Foss. Crin., p. 39, PI. 4, figs. 1 a-c. Mount, limej-t. Bollard, England. 



1861. PL glyptus Hall (Pleurocrinus). Desc. New Sps. Crin., p. 16. Upper Bur- 



lington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 A mere variety of PL sculptus Hall. 




246 PROCEEDINGS OF THK ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1853. PI. granosus De Koninck and Lehon (Pleurocrinus). Rccher. Crin. Carb. 



Bulg., p. 183, PI. t), figs. 6 a-i. Mount, liinest. Tournay, Belgium. 

 1821. PI. granulatas Miller. Hist. Crinoidea, p. 81, PI. 4, fig.«. 1-3; .Scblotheim, 



1822, Nacbtr. zur Petref., i, p. 86; Ibid, ii, p. 97, PI. 26, figs. 3 a, b, c; 

 Blainville, 1830, Diet, des Sci. Nat., Ix, p 243; Agassiz, 1835, Mem. de la 

 Soc. des Sci. de Neuchatel, i, p. 197; De Koninck, 1842, Desc. Anim. Foss. 

 Carb. de Belg., p. 43, PI. F, figs. 2 a, b; Portlock, 1843, Geol. of London- 

 derry, p. 350, PI. 16, fig. 4; Austin, 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 33, 

 PI. 3, figs. 2 i-o; McCoy, 1844, Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 176; De Koninck and 

 Lehon, 1853, Rccherch. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 179, PI. 6, figs. 5 a-b. Mount, 

 limest. England, Ireland and Belgium. 



1863. PI. graphicus Hall. 17ch Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 55; also 1875, Geol. Surv. 

 Ohio, Pal. ii, p. 166, PI. 11, fig. 2. Waverly Gr. Richfield, Ohio. 



1865. PI. Halli Shumard (PleurocrinusJ. Catal. Pal. Foss. North America, p. 388 

 (Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, vol. ii). Upper Burlington limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 

 This species was at first described and figured by Hall as PL planus Ow. and 

 Sh., Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 533, PI. 8, figs. 6 a, b. It resembles PL in- 

 COmptUS White, in form and lack of ornamentation, but the latter has six, 

 or exceptionally seven to eight arms to each ray, while PL Halli has twelve 

 or even sixteen arms to the ray. 

 Syn. PL olla Hall (not De Kon. and Lehon). Desc New Sp. Crin., p. 16. 



1873. PL Haydeni Meek. Hayden's U. S. Geol. Surv. for 1872, p. 469; also White, 

 Ann. Rep. U. S. Geol. Surv. Terr, for 1878, p. 122, PI. 33, fig. 7 a. Sub- 

 carboniferous. 



1865. PL hemisphericus Meek and Worthen (Pleurocrinus). Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p. 162; also Geol. Rep. III., iii, p. 466, PI. 16, fig. 9, and vol. v, 

 p. 16, figs. 6 a, b, c. Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. ; also Burlington 

 and Keokuk Transition beds at Burlington and Nauvoo. 



1863. PL incomptus White. Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., vii, p. 503; also Meek and 

 AVorth., 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 459, PI. .3, fig. 7. Upper Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1836. PL laciniatus Gilbertsou (Phillips). Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 3, fig. 18; 

 Austin, 1843, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109, and Mon. Rec. and Foss. 

 Crin., p. 42, PI. 5, figs. 1 a-c; D'Orbigny, 1849, Prodr i, p. 156. Mount, 

 limest. BoUand, England. 



1821. PL leevis Miller.f Hist. Crinoidea, p. 74, PI. 1, fig. 1-9, and 13-18, and PI. 2, 

 figs. 1-4, and 52-56 (the other figures have been referred by De Koninik to 

 several other species). Scblotheim, 1822, Nachtr. zur Petref., i, p. 84; Ibid., 



1823, vol. ii, p. 94, PI. 25, figs. 4 a and 4 e; Goldfuss, 1833, Petref. Germ., i, 

 p. 188, PI. 58, fig?. 2 a-e; Blainville, 1834, Manuel de Actinocr., p. 262; 

 Agassiz, 1835, Mem. Soc. de Neuchatel, p. 197 ; Bronn, 1835, Leihsea Geogn., 

 i, p. 60; Milne-Edwards, 1836, Anim. s. vert, de Lamarck, ii, p. 665; De 

 Koninck, 1842, Desc. Anim. Carb. de Belgique, p. 41, PI. F, fig. 1 c and e 

 (the others excluded); Austin, 1843, Monog. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 8, PI. 1, 

 figs, la-n; McCoy, 1844, Syn. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 176; Pictet, 1846, 

 Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 200, PI. 9, fig. 18. Mountain limest. England, 

 Ireland and Belgium. 



1875. PLlodensis Hall. Geol. Surv. Ohio, Pal. ii, p. 168, PI. II, fig. 3. Waverly 

 Gr. Medina Co., Ohio. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 247 



1S49. PI. megastylus McCoj'. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (ser. li), p. 248. Mount. 



limest. Bolland, Eng. 

 18.36. PI. mycrostylus Phillips. Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 204 ; Austin, 1842, Ann. and 



Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109. Mount, limest. Bolland, England. 

 1842. PI, mucronatus Austin. (Figured by Phillips as PI, laevis, Geol. Yorkshire, 



PI. 3, figs. 14, 15.) Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109, and xi, p. 199; 



also 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 22, PI. 2, fig. 1, and PI. 5, fig. 2. 



Subcarboniferous. England. 

 1853. PI. MuUerianus De Kon. and Leh.f Recher. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 171, PI. 5, 



figs. 4 a, b, c, d. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belgium. 

 1865. PI. niotensis Meek and AVorthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila , p. 162; also 



Geol. Rep. 111., p. 513, PI. 20, fig. 3. Keokuk limest. Niota and Nauvoo, 111. 

 1858. PI. nodulosus Hall (not Goldfuss, 1833 = Si/mbathocrinus). Geol. Rep. Iowa, 



pt. ii, p. 541, Lower Burlington limest, Burlington, Iowa, 

 1858. PI. nodobrachiatus Hall (not Hall, 1861). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 542. 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa, 

 Described from a j'oung specimen, probably of PI. americantis. 

 1858, PI. nucleiformis Hall. (Pleurocrinus.) Geol, Rep, Iowa, 1, pt. ii, p. 540, 



Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1853. PL oUa De Kon. and Leh. (not PL olla Hall, 1861 = PL Halli Shum.), 



Recher. Crin. Cab, Belg., p. 172, PI. 5, fig, 5, Mount, limest, Tournay, 



Belgium. 

 1844. PL ornatus McCoy (not PL ornatus Goldfuss, 1833 = Hexaenniis). Carb. 



Fos=. Ireland, p. 176, PI. 25, fig. 1, D'Orbigny, Edwardsocrinas ornatus, 



1849, Prodr, i, p. 157 ; also Course Elem, ii, p, 145 ; PL ornatus De Kon, 



and Leh., 1853, Recher, Crin. Carb, Belg., p. 177, PI. 6, figs. 4 a, b, c ; 



Pictet, Edwardsocr. ornatus, 1857, Traite de Pal, iv, p. 330, PL 101, fig. 



15. Mount, limest. Ireland, and Tournay, Belg, 

 This is evidently a young Platycrinus, with the arms as yet in an immature 



or embryonic state, 



1860, PL ornigranules McChesney. Desc. New Pal. Foss., p. 5 ; also Chicago Acad. 



Sci., i, p. 3, PI, 5, fig. 8, Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa, 



1861, PL parvinodus Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 17. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa, 

 1865, PL parvulus Meek and Worthen, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, p. 163 ; Geol, 



Rep, 111., V, p 555, PI. 20, fig. 7. Chester limest. Pope Co., 111. 

 1860. PL penicillus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 380 ; also 



Geol, Rep, 111., ii, p. 266, PI. 19, figs. 6 a, b, Warsaw limest. Hardin 



Co., 111. 

 1865. PL perasper Shumard. Catal. PaL Foss, N. A., p. 389, Lower Burlington 



limest, Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. PL nodobraohiatus Hall, 1861 (not Hall, 1858). Desc, New Sp, Crin., 



p. 17. 

 1839, PL pileatus Goldf. (Pleurocrinus.) Acta Nov. ac. Leop., xir, p. 343, PI. 31, 



fig. 7, a, b, c; Geinitz, Grundr. der Versteiner., PI. 23, fig. 7; McCoy, 1851, 



Brit. Pal, Foss,, Pt. ii, p, 119; De Kon, and Leh,, 1853, Rech. Crin, Carb, 



Belg., p, 175, PI, 6, figs, 3 a-e. Mount limest. England and Belg. 

 Syn. PL anthleontes Austin, 1842, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 69, and 



?i, p. 199; Mon. Rec. and Foss, Crin,, p. 27, PL 2, figs, 3 k-r. 




248 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1858. PI. pileiformis Hall. (Pleuroorinus.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 629, PI. 8, 

 figs. ;? a, b, c. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. This species 

 is easily distinguished from the other species with smooth plates, by having 

 only four arms to the ray. 



1850. PI. planus Ow. and Sh. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (Ser. ii), vol. ii, p. 57 ; 

 also, 1852, U. S. Geol. Surv. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., p. 687, PI. 5 A, fig.s. 4 a, 

 c (not b, nor Geol. Rep. 111., iii, PI. 16, fig. 6, which are both PI. Pratteni 

 Worthen; nor Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, PI. 8, figs. 6 a, b, which are PI. 

 Halli Shum.); Geol. Rep. 111., v, PI. 3, fig. 5. Lower Burlington limest. 

 Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. PI. plenus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 380 ; also 

 Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 267, PI. 20, fig. 3. Warsaw limest. Hardin Co., 111. 



1858. PI. pocilliformis Hall. (Pleuroorinus.) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 528, 

 PI. 8, figs. 2 a, b. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. PL verruoosus White, 1863. Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 602. 



1878. PI praenuntius Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 249, PI. 

 2, figs. 1, 2. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. PI. Prattenanus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 379 ; 

 also Geol. Rep. Ill, ii, p. 264, PI. 20, fig. 2. St. Louis limest. Randolph 

 Co., 111. 



1860. PI. Pratteni Worthen. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, p. 569 ; Meek and 

 Worthen, PL planus. Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 469, PI. 16, fig. 6. Lower Bur- 

 lington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Meek did not consider PL Pratteni distinct from PL planus, and Owen and 

 Shumard seem to have been of the same opinion, for they figure in the U. S. 

 Rt-p. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., PI. 5 A, fig. 46 (not 4 a, e) a specimen, evidently 

 of the former type, under the latter name. 



1860. PL pumilus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 82, PI. 1, fig. 6. Warsaw 



limest. Warsaw, 111. 

 1844. PL punctatus McCoy. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 177, PL 25, figs. 15, 17. 



Mount, limest. Ireland. 

 1862. PI, quinquenodus White. (Pleuroorinus.) Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 



18. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. PL regalis Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 16, Separate Photog. Plate 2, fig. 



6. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. PL Oweni Meek and Worthen, 1861. Proc. Philad. Acad., p. 129. 

 1875. PL richfieldensis Hall. Geol. Rep. Ohio, Pal. ii, p. 167, PI. 11, fig. 4. 



Waverly gr. Ptichfield, 0. 

 1821. PL rugOSUS Miller (not Qoldf. = StorthingocrinvB Schultze). Hist. Cri- 



noidea, p. 79, with plate. Figured by Cumberland in Trans. Geol. Soc, vol. 



V, PL 5, fig. 10; Phillips, 1836, Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 2, fig. 20; 



Austin, 1842, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109; Blainville, 1843, Man. 



d'Actin., PL 29, fig. 4; Austin, 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 40, PI. 



4, figs. 2d-k; McCoy, 1844, Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 177. Mount, limest. 



Caldy Island, Wales, also Mendip Hills, England. 

 1858. PL SaflEbrdi Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 634, PI. 18, figs. 5, 6. Lower 



part Keokuk limest. Nauvoo and Hamilton, 111., and Keokuk, Iowa. Prob- 

 ably Syn. of PL sonlptus. 

 1858. PL Sarae Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 673, PL 17, fig. 4. St. Louis 



limest. St. Louis, Mo. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 249 



1861. PI, scobina Meek and Worthen. Proc Acad Xat. Sci. Phila., p. 129 ; also 

 Geo). Rep. 111., iii, p. 466, PI. 16, fig. 9. Lower Burlington limegt. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 Stfn. PI. clytis Hall, 1861. Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 285, Separate photogr. 

 plates, i, fig. 4. 

 1858. PI. BCulptus Hall. aeol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 536, PI. 8, fig. 11. LoWer 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. PI. Shutnardianus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 532, PI. 8, fig. 5. 



Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1844. PI. similis McCoy. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 177, PI. 26, fig. 6; D'Orbigny, 



Prodr. i, p. 156. Mount, limest. Ireland. 

 1842. PI. spinosus Aust. f Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109, and xi, p. 199; 

 also Mon. Rec. and Foss. Grin., p. 19, PI. i, figs. 2 k, o, p, q, r, s ; De Kon. 

 and Leh., 1853, Rech. Grin. Garb. Belg., p. I6f>, PI. 6, fig. 2 a, b. Mount 

 limest. Mendip Hills, Eng., and Tournay, Belg. 

 Syn. Engeniaorinites (?) hezagonus Miinster, 1839. Beitr. z. Petref. i, p. 4, 

 PI. 1, figs. 6 a, b: De Kon. 1842, Desc. Anim. Foss. Carb. Belg., p. 39, PI. 

 E, figs. 5 a, b, c. 

 Syn. PI. laevis (in part) Miller. 1821, Hist. Grin., p. 74, PI. 1, fig. 4 (not the 

 other figures). 

 1821. PI. striatus Miller. Hist. Grin., p. 82; Agassiz, 1835. Mem. Soc. des Sci, 

 Nat., Neuchat. i, p. 196 ; Austin, 1842, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 

 109; Blainville, 1834, Man. d'Act., p. 262; De Kon., 1842, Desc. Anim. 

 Foss. Carb. Belg., p. 44; Milne-Edwards apud Lamarck, ii, p. 666; Austi^, 

 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Grin., p. 37, PI. 3, figs. 3 p-u. Mount, limest. 

 Bristol, Engl. 

 1858. PI. subspinosus Hall. Geol. Rep. luwa, i, Pt. ii, p. 536, PI. 8, figs. 9. 10; 

 Meek and Worthen, 1866. PI, (Pleurocrinus) subspinosus, Geol. Rep. 

 111., ii, p. 173, PI. 15, fig. 6, and vol. v, PI. 11, fig. 2. Lower Burlington 

 limest, Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860. PI, subspinulosus Hall. Supp. Geol, Rep. Iowa, p. 81. Upper Burlino'ton 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Dichocrinus lachrymosus Hall, 1860. Supl. Iowa Rep., p. 84. 

 1865. PI, tenuibracMatUS Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 168; 

 also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 450, PI. 3, fig. 4. Upper Burlington limest. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 1842. PI, trigintidactylus Austin (Pleurocrinus). Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, 

 p. 69; also 1844, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Grin., p. 30, PI. 3, figs. 1 b-h (not a 

 = PL auslinianua). Mount, limest. Bristol, Eng. and Tournay, Belo-. 

 Syn. PI. triacontadactylus McCoy, 1844, Garb. Foss. Ireland, p. 177, PI. 25, 

 figs. 2-7. 

 1858. PI. truncatulus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 538. Lower Burlington 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1821, PI, tuberculatus Miller.— Pleurocrinus— (not P. tuberculatus Phillips = 

 Hexaoiniis). Hist. Crin., p. 81, figs. 1, 2; Schlotheim, 1822, Nachtr. z. 

 Petref. i, p. 85, and 182.3, lb. ii, p. 97, PI. 26, figs. 2 a-b ; Agassiz, 1835, 

 Mem. de la Soc. Nat. Sci. Neuchat., i, p. 197. Mount, limest. Mendip 

 Hills, Eng., and Tournay, Belg. 

 Syn. PI, ellipticus (in part) Phillips. Geol. Yorkshire, ii, PI. 3, fig. 19 (not 

 21); also Austin, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Grin, PI. 4, figs. 3, p to u ; McCoy, 

 Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 177. 




250 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1858. PI. tuberosus Hall. (^col. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 534, PI. 8, figs. 7 a, b ; Meek 

 and Worth., 1806, Pleuroor. tuberosus, Ueol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 172. Upper 

 liiirlini;toii limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1849. PI. vesiculus McCoy. Ann, and Mag. Nat. Hist., p. 246. Mount, limest. 



Derbyshire, Eng. 

 1875 (?). PI. vexabilis White. Wheeler's U. S. Survey, West of LOOth merid., iv, 



Pal. p. 81, PL V, fig. 2. We doubt if this is a Platycrinus. 

 1858. PI. Wortbeni Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 530, PL 8, fig. 4. Burlington 



limest. ]>urlington, Iowa. 



1850. PI. Yandelli Ow. and Sh. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (new ser.), ii, pt. i; 



also U. S. Geo*. Surv. Iowa, Wise, and Minn., p. 537, PL 5 A, figs. 6 a, b. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



Subgenus EUCLADOCRINUS Meek. 



1871. Meek. Hayden's Rep. U. S. Surv. of Terr., p. 373. 

 1878. Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 243. 



Syn. Platycrinus White, in part. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 17. 



The name Eucladocrinus was proposed by Meek in 1871 

 (Hayden's Rep. U. S. Survey of the Territories, p. 373) to desig- 

 nate a subgeneric group under Platycrinus^ of which PL pleuro- 

 viviinus White is the t3^pe. 



In the structure of the calyx, this form presents no apparent 

 difference from Platycrinus^ and it embraces species with a low, 

 broad cup shaped, and with an elongate body. It is characterized, 

 however, by having the radial series of the body, both dorsal and 

 ventral, greatly extended in the form of tubular free rays, which 

 bear the arms alternately on either side throughout their entire 

 length. These rays, in all the known species, divide on the second 

 radial into two branches, which remain joined by their inner sides 

 for the length of three or four plates, after which they beoorne 

 free, giving two free branches to each ray, or ten in all. A tubular 

 passage, arched over by the extensions of the vault, runs the whole 

 length of the rays, and these tubes, after uniting on the inside of 

 the second radial, connect with the visceral cavity. 



The arms are composed of a double series of interlocking 

 joints, and bear slender, single-jointed pinnules. 



This type bears the same relation to Platycrinus that Stegano- 

 crinus does to Actinocrinus^ and Melocrinus to Mariacrinus ; 

 and the two are ver^" closely connected by transition forms such 

 as PL prsenuntius, in which the free ray structure is clearly begun, 

 the radial areas being produced to the extent of ten or twelve 

 plates. 




]881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 251 



The subgenus evidenth^ represents the mature and extreme 

 form of the Platycrinoid tj'pe. 



Geogi-aphical Position, etc. — Found as yet only in the Subcar- 

 boniferous of America, where the following species are known : — 



1878. Eucladoorinus millebracliiatus Wachsni. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 245. Upper Burlington and Keokuk Transition bed, ani lower 



part of the Keokuk limest. Burlington, Iowa, Nauvoo and Niota, 111. 

 1871. Eucladoor. inontanaeii<'is Meek. Ilayden's Geol. Rep. U. S. Surv. Terr., p. 



373. Subciirb. Montana. 

 1862. Eucladocr. pleuroviminus AVhite (Platycr. pleuroviminus). Type of the 



subgenus. Proc. Bost. See. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 17; Meek, 1870, Am. Jour. 



Sci. and Arts; AYachsm. and Spr., 1878, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 249. 



Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



6. (?) COTYLEDONOCRINTIS Casseday and Lyou. 



1860. Casseday and Lyon. Proc. Acad. Arts and Sci., v, p. 26. 



1865. Shumard. Catal. Pal. Foss. N. A. Trans. St. Louis Acad., ii, p. 360, 



1877. S. A. Miller. Catal. Am. Pal. Foss., p. 74. 



1879. Zittel. (DicJiocrinus.) Handb. d. Pal., i, p 365. 



Casseday and Lyon proposed the above name for a crinoid 

 which agrees in every respect with Dichocrinus, except that it 

 has no anal plate in line with the first radials. According to 

 the description, however, there is a deeper notch between the 

 radials on the posterior side, and the question arises whether the 

 type specimen was not an abnormal Dichocrinus in which the anal 

 plate was wanting or imperfectl}^ developed. The notch lies 

 directly in line with one end of the suture which divides the basal 

 disk, and hence the position corresponds to that of the anal in 

 Dichocrinus. The bipartite base itself seems to indicate that 

 there was normally a sixth plate above, for otherwise, according 

 to the rule we have found to prevail among these Crinoids, one 

 plate of the basal disk should be larger — while they are said to be 

 equal in this form. 



As described, Gotyledonocrinus agrees essentially in the form 

 of the body with typical species of Dichocrinus, and like them 

 has three primary' radials, the first large and long, the two others 

 small and supporting 2 X 10 secondary radials, succeeding radials 

 forming parts of the free rays. There is a single interradial in 

 connection with the first radials, two interradial plates above con- 

 stitute a part of the vault. 



The specimen has long delicate arms, which do not bifurcate, 




252 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



and wliieh give off long pinnules, composed of a large number of 

 short joints. 



Column cylindrical. 



Until other specimens are discovered, we must consider Cotyle- 

 donocrinus an abnormal form of Dichocrinus. 



Casseday and Lyons' only species is : — 



1860. Cotyledonocrinus pentalobus. Proc. Amer. Acad. Arts, and Sci., vol. v, p. 26. 

 Warsaw limest. Grayson Co., Kentucky. 



h. Hexackinites. 



7. HEXACRINUS Austin. 



1843, Austin. Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 48. 



1853. De Kon. and Leh. Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 160. 



1855. F. Roemer. Letbaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3, Per. 1), p. 244. 



1857. Job. Miiller. Neue Ecbin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 85. 



1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 831. 



1867. Scbultze. Mon. Ecbinod. Eifl. Kalk, p. 71. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palajontologie, p. 365. 



Syn. Platycr. Phil., 1841 (not 1836). Pal. Foss. Cornw., p. 28. 



Syn. Platycr. Goldf. (in part), 1838. Nova Acta. Ac. Leop., xix, 

 p. 343. 



Syn. Platycr. Agas. (in part), 1835. Mem. Soc. Neucb., i, p. 197. 



Syn. Platycr. Aust. (in part), 1842. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, 

 p. 109. 



Syn. Platycr. F. A. Roemer, 1843. Verstein. d. Harzes. 



Syn. Platycr. F. Roemer, 1851. Vei-h. naturb. Verein Rbeinl., p. 

 362. 



Syn. Platycr. D'Orbigny (in part), 1850. Prodr. Pal., i, p. 103. 



Syn. Platycr. Lyon, 1860. Trans. Am Pbilos. Soc, p. 459. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body obconical, pear-shaped orsubglobose ; 

 surface generally elaborately sculptured or nodose; symmetry 

 decided 1^^ bilateral. 



Basal disk large, in form of a shallow cup ; hexagonal ; composed 

 of three equal plates. Five of its sides support a first radial 

 each, the sixth a large anal plate, which extends to the full height 

 of the first radials. Primary radials 2 X 5, the first very large, 

 apparentlj' quadrangular but actuall}'^ hexagonal; increasing in 

 width from the base up; upper margin excavated. Second radials 

 minute, triangular, rarely filling the whole excavation, which 

 generally encloses a part of the first secondary radials, the latter 

 forming the base of two free appendages to each ray. The free 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 253 



rays and the arms proper have been rarely observed, but were 

 apparent!}^ constructed like those of Eucladocrinus. In Hexacr. 

 limbatus, the free rays attain three or four times the length of 

 the bod}^, and each one consists of a row of short cylindrical 

 joints, which give off laterally pinnule bearing arms. These 

 arms originate on every fourth, fifth or sixth joint, according to 

 position, and alternately from opposite sides. The free parts of 

 the ray in Hexacr. brevis,^ are apparently more like those of 

 Plati/crinus. 



Anal plates generally narrower, but often higher than the first 

 radials; wider towards the top than at its junction with the 

 basals, the upper side supporting two or thi:ee plates. Inter- 

 radial series composed of a single large plate,, which rests within 

 a notch between two radials. 



Yault low, hemispherical, more or less flattened, composed of 

 comparatively few and large pieces, which are nodose, or covered 

 with a number of small tubercles. Apical dome plates large. 

 Anus subcentral or lateral ; in form of a simple opening through 

 the vault, or supported bj"- a small tubercular process composed 

 of small polygonal pieces. 



Column cj^lindrical, the larger joints nodose or sculptured after 

 the style of the plates of the calyx; articulating face radicularly 

 striated ; central canal small, round. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Hexacrinus is strictly a Devonian 

 genus, and almost exclusively European, only fragments of a 

 single species having been discovered in America. 



The following species have been described : — 



1838. Hezaorinas anaglypticos Goldf. (Platycr. anaglypticus.) Nova Acta ac. 

 Leop., xix, p. 348, PI. 32, fig. 4; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. anaglypticus, 

 Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 72, PI. 8, fig. 1. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. Platycr. frondosus Goldf. Bonn Museum, undefined. 

 Syn. Platycr. annulatus Goldf. Bonn Museum, undefined. 

 Syn. Platycr. muricatus Goldf. Bonn Museum, undefined. 

 1867. Hexacr. bacca SchuUze. Men. Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 83, PI. 10, fig. 5. Devo- 

 nian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1838. Hexacr. brevis Goldf. (Platycr. brevis.) Nova Acta ac. Leop., xix, i, p. 

 346, PI. 32, fig. 2; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. brevis, Men. Echin. Eifl. Kalk, 

 p. 79, PI. 10, fig. 7. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



1 We believe that Hexacr. brevis Goldf. (Mon. Echin. Eifl. Kalk, PI. 10, 

 fi^. 7) is a young specimen of some other species. This is indicated not 

 only by its small size, but also the immature character of the anns and 

 column ; it may even represent an entirely different genus. 




254 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1843. Hexacr. Buchii F. A. Roomer. (Platycr. Buohii.) Hartzgcbirsc, p. 9, P). 



12, fii;:. LS. Devonian. Ilartz, Germany. 

 1867. Hexacr. callosus Schultze. Men. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 8.^, PI. 9, fig. 3. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. Platycr. rosaceus Goldf. (not Roemer = Coccocrimis). Bonn Museum, 



undefined. 

 1858. Hexacr. costatus Miiller. Monatsb. Berl. Akad. Wissensch., p. 354; Schultze, 



1867, Mon. Echin. Eifel, Kalk, p. 74. Devonian. Eifel, Grrmany. Probably a 



variety of Hexacr. anaglypticus. 

 1838. Hexacr. elongatus Goldf. (Platycr. elongatus Goldf. not Phillips.) Nova 



Acta ac. Loop., xix, i, p. 345, PI. 32, fig. 1; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. elon- 

 gatus, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 74, PI. 9, fig. 4. Devonian. Eifel, 



Germany. 

 Sijn. Platycr. Goldfussi MUnster. Beitr. z. Petrefactenk, i, p. 32, PI. 1, 



figs. 2 a, b. 

 1838. Hexacr, exsculptus Goldf. (Platycr. exsculptus.) Nova Acta ac. Leop., 



xi.\, i, p. 347, PI. 32, fig. 3 ; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. exsculptus, Mon. Echin. 



Eifel Kalk, p. 77, PI. 9, fig. 2. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1843. Hexacr. granuliferus F. A. Roemer. (Platycr. granuliferus.) Versteiner 



Nas.sau's, p. 397. Devonian. Lahnstein, Germany. 

 ■'■■•I860 (?). PI. insularis Eichwald. Lethaea Rossica, i, p. 612, PI. 31, fig. 58. Devonian. 



Isle of Oesel. 

 There is some doubt, whether this is a Hexacrimis. Eichwald describes it with 



five radials, one of them much larger and apparently composed of two pieces, 



which are said to be soldered together. One of the other plates is represented 



as being much smaller. 

 1841. Hexacr. interscapularis Phillips. (Platycr. interscapularis not Miller.) 



Pal. Foss. Cornwall, p. 28, PI. 14, fig. 39; D'Orbigny, 1849, Prodr. d. Pale- 



ont, p. 103; Austin, 1843, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109; Schultze, 



1867, Hexacr. interscapularis, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 79, PI. 8, fig. 5. 



Devonian. Near Plymouth, Eng., and Eifel, Germany. 

 Syn. Platycr. granifer Roemer. 1852, Verb. Naturh. Verein Rheinl., ix, p. 



281, PI. 2, fig. 1 ; Schultze, Hexacr. interscapularis, Mon. Echin. Eifel 



Kalk, p. 79. 

 Syn. Platycr. melo Austin. 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin.. p. 48, PI. 6, fig. 



1; Schultze, Hexacr. interscapularis, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 79. 

 Syn. Hexacr. depressus Austin. 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 49, PI. 



6, figs, 2 a-e; Schultze, Hexacr. interscapularis, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, 



p. 79. 

 *1860. Hexacr, Leai Lyon. (Platycr, Leai.) Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, p. 259, PI, 



26, figs, g g'. Upper Helderberg, Dev. Louisville, Ky. 

 1857. Hexacr. limbatus Miiller. Neue Echin. Eifel, p. 248, PI. 2, fig. 1; Schultze, 



1867, Mon. Ecbin. Eifel Kalk, p. 78, PI. 9, fig. 1. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1857. Hexacr. lobatus Miiller. Neue Echin. Eifel, p. 248, PI. 1, figs. 10-12; Schultze, 



1867, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 84, PI. 10, fig. 6. Devonian. Eifel, 



Germany. 

 1843. Hexacr. macrotatus Austin. Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 50, PI. 6, figs. 3 



a-d. Devonian. South Devon, England. 

 Syn. Platycr. Phillipsii D'Orbigny. 1850. Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 103. 

 Syn. Platycr. tuberculatus Phillips, 1839 (not Miller, 1821). Pal. Foss. 



Cornwall, PI. 60, fig. 39. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 255 



1867. Hexacr. nodifer Schultze. Mon. Ecbin. Eifel Kalk, p. 84, PI. 10, fig. 3. 



I)evonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1838. Hexacr. ornatus Goldf. (Platycr. ornatus not McCoy.) Nova Acta Ac. 



Leop., xix, i, p. 347; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. ornatus, Mon. Echin. Eifel 



Kalk, p. 82, PL 8, fig. 4, and PI. 10, fig. 9. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 Si/n. Hexacr. echinatus Sandberger, 1856. Verstein. Nassau's, p. 398, PI. 35, 



fig. 10. 

 1867. Hexacr. paterseformis Schultze. Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 87, PL 10, fig. 



4. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1867. Hexacr. pyriformis Schultze. Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 76, PL 10, fig. 1. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1857. Hexacr. spinosus MuUer. Neue Echin. Eifel, p. 248, PI. i, figs. 13, 14; 



Schultze, 1867, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 75, PL 8, fig. 2. Devonian. 



Eifel, Germany. 

 1851. Hexacr. stellaris F. Roemer. (Platycr. stellaris.) Yerh. Naturh. Verein f. 



FiheinL, viii, p. 362, PL 7, figs. 2 a, b, c ; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. Stellaris, 



Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 81, PL 8, fig. 3. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1867. Hexacr. triradiatus Schultze. Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 86, PL 9, fig. 5. 



Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 

 1826. Hexacr. ventricosus Goldf. (Platycr. ventricosus.) Petref. Germ., i, p. 189, 



PL 58, fig. 4; Miiller, 1856, Monatsb. Berl. Akad., p. 354, and 1857, Xeue 



Echin. Eifl., p. 247, PL 1, figs. 3, 4; Schultze, 1867, Hexacr. ventricosus, 



Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 85, PL 10, fig. 2. Devonian. Eifel, Germany. 



8. DICHOCRINUS Munster. 



1838. Munster. Beitr. zur Petrefactenk, , i, p. 2. 



1843. Austin. Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 45. 



1850. D Orbigny. Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 156. 



1853. Owen and Shuniard. U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., p. 589. 



1853. De Koninck and Lebon. Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 146. 



1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 333. 



1858. Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 654 (not 689). 



1860. Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 381. 

 1860. Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 83. 



1860. Casseday and Lyon (in part). Proc. Acad. Arts and Sci., v, p. 16. 

 1866. Meek and Wortben. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, pp. 167 and 263. 

 1879. Zittel. Haudb. der Palaeont., p. 365 (not Sbumard, 1857, Trans. 

 St. Louis Acad., i, p. 5). 

 Syn. (?) Cofyledonocrinus Cass, and Lyon. 1860, Proc. Am. Acad. 



Arts and Sci., v, p. 16. 

 Syn. Platycrinus Phillips (in part). Geol. of Yorkshire, ii. 



There has been some difference of opinion as to the number of 

 primar}^ raclials in Dichocrinus. Austin represents his Dichocr. 

 fusiformis, Rec. and Foss. Crin., PI. 5, fig. 6", with three small 

 plates above the first radials ; De Koninck and Lehon, in their 

 generic formula, fix the number of primary radials at 4 X 5, on 




256 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the strength of Austin's figure. On the other hand, Shumard 

 described his two species, D. cornigerus and D. sexlohalus, with a 

 single large radial, and none above it. Casseda}' and Lyon state 

 the number of radials as 1 to 3 X 5, in which opinion Meek and 

 Worthen coincide. 



We have no doubt that the latter statement is correct, and that 

 Austin's species is incorrectly figured, and had actually but three 

 radials ; but we have ascertained from several excellent specimens 

 loaned to us by Prof. Worthen, that the so-called D. cornigerus 

 and D. sexlohatus of Shumard both have a very minute second 

 radial, which is sometimes not visible externally. These two 

 species, however, like some others described by Casseday and 

 Lyon, differ from the typical Dichocrinus in several other import- 

 ant points, and this has led us to arrange them in a new generic 

 group under Talarocrinus^ which includes every species of this 

 form with only two primary radials. We have examined all 

 known American species of Dichocrinus proper, and find they all 

 have three primary radials. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Cal^'X deeply cup-shaped ; plates 

 delicate, rarely ornamented ; S3mmetry distinctly bilateral. 



Basals two, hexagonal, forming together an obconical or rounded 

 cup. Radials 3X5. The five plates of the first series very 

 large, their sides straight and nearly parallel ; two rest on each 

 basal piece, the anterior plate in a notch at one end of the basal 

 suture ; against the opposite end there rests a large anal plate, 

 which is placed in line with the first radials. Succeeding radials 

 very small, occupying scarcelj^ more than one-fourth the width of 

 the first. The third radials are bifui'cating plates which support 

 either the arms, or in species with more than ten arms, the higher 

 orders of radials. Secondary, tertiary, or even quarternar}' 

 radials occur according to the number of arms. These higher 

 orders are generally in series of two plates each, exceptionally 

 three ; they are similar in appearance to ordinary arm plates, but 

 are easily distinguished by being single-jointed ; while the arm 

 plates, from the base up, are composed of a double series of 

 pieces. 



Arms rather delicate, but they give off" very long and stout pin- 

 nules composed of large joints. The pinnules form a very char- 

 acteristic feature of the genus. 



Anal plate almost as large as the first radials, often narrower 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 257 



above than below; quadrangular. Interradial plate pushed up- 

 ward to the ventral side of the body, resting upon two upper 

 margins of the first radials, which are not indented ; several inter- 

 radial dome plates follow in succession. 



Dome depressed, and so far as known, constructed, as in some 

 species of Platycrinus, with a short excentric anal tube. 



Column cylindrical, with a small round canal. 



The genus is most closely related to Talarocrinus. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Dichocrinus is a Subcarboniferous 

 genus, and is found in America from the Lower Burlington lime- 

 stone up to the Warsaw, where it is succeeded by Talarocrinus. 

 It is also rejjresented by a number of species in the Mountain 

 limestone of Belgium and Great Britain. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1862. Dichocrinus angustus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 19. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860. Dichocr. constrictus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 



381; also Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 263, PI. 19, figs. 2 a, b, c. Warsaw limest. 



Bloomington, Ind. 

 1860. Oichocr. conus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 381 ; 



also Geol Rep. 111., ii, p. 169, PI. 16, figs. 5 a, b. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1862. Dichoor. crassitestus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 19. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860. Dichocr. dichotomus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 85, PI. 1, fig. 5. War- 

 saw limest. AVarsaw, 111. 

 1853. Dichocr. elegans De Kon. and Leh. (not Casseday and Lyon = Talaro'-rinus 



elegans Wachsm. and Spr.). Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 153, PI. 4, figs. 13 



a, b. Mountain limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 1836. Dichocr. elongatus (Platycr. elongatus) Phill. (not Goldf., 1838 = Heoca- 



crinns). Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 204, PI. 3, figs. 24, 26; Austin, 1843, Mon. 



Ree. and Foss. Crin. Mount. limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 1853. Dichocr. expansus De Kon. and Leh. (not Meek and Worthen = Dichocr. 



polydactylus Cass, and Lyon). Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 161, PI. 4, fig. 10. 



Mount, limest. Belgium and England. 

 This species had been figured by Miller, 1821, among his PI. laevis (figs. 4, 5), 



and by Austin as D. radiatus. 

 1860. Dichocr. ficus Casseday and Lyon. Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and So-., v, p. 24 ; 



Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 500, PI. 14, fig. 1. Keokuk 



limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 

 In their description, the above authors state that all of the six perisomic plates 



are arm bearing. This is a mistake, as the anal plate supports a narrow 



cylindrical tube somewhat resembling an arm. 

 1843. Dichocr. fusiformis Austin. Mon. Rec. and Fofs. Crin., p. 47, IM. 5, figs. 6 



a-d; De Kon. and Leh., 1853, Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 148, PI. 4, fig. 7. 



Mount, limest. Mendip Hills, Eng., and Tournay, Belg. 



18 




258 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



1863. Dichocr. granalosas Dc Kon. and Leh. Rech. Grin. Carb. Belg., p. 152, PI. 4, 



fig. 12. Mount, liinest. Tournay, Belg. 

 1853. Dichocr. intermediuB Be Kon. and Leh. Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 150, PI. 



4, fig. 9. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 1853. Dichocr. irregularis De Kon. and Leh. Rech. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 152, PI. 



4, figs. 11 a, b. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 



1860. Dichocr. Isevis Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. S3. Lower Burlington 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1869. Dichocr. lineatns Meek, and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 69; also 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 440, PI. 3, fig. 1. Lower Burlington limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 



1861. Dichocr. liratus Hall. Desc. New Sp. Pal. Crin., p. 5; also Boat. Jour. Nat. 



Hist., p. 290, Photog. PI. 2, figs. 7, 8. Upper Burlington limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 



*1881. Dichocr. ornatus Wachsm. and Spr. (Dichocr. sculptus Lyon and Cass., not 

 De Kon. and Leh., 1853). Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci., v, p. 25. Keokuk 

 limest. Hardin Co., Ky. We propose the above name, D. sculptus being 

 preoccupied. 



1850. Dichocr. ovatus Ow. and Sh. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (new sr.) ii, Pt. i; 

 also U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., p. 590, PI. 5 A, figs. 9 a-b. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1869. Dichocr. pisum Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 69; also 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 440, PI. 3, fig. 2. Lower Burlington limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 



1861. Dichocr. plicatus Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 4 ; also Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist, 

 p. 288, Phot. PI. 2, figs. 9,10. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. Dichocr. pocillum Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 5; also Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., 

 p. 291, Phot. PI. 2, figs. 15, 16 (Fig. 14 is evidently Meek and Worthen's 

 D. laevis, which occurs in the Upper Burlington beds). Lower Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Dichocr. polydactylus Casseday and Lyon. Proc. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci., v, 



p. 20. Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



Syn. D. expansus Meek and Worth (not De Kon. and Leh., 1853). Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 344; also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 500, PI. 14, fig. 1. 



The original description by Cass, and Lyon is somewhat erroneous as to the 

 arrangement of the arms, and this probably led Meek and Worthen to pro- 

 pose a new species. There is no doubt of the identity of the two. 

 1838. Dichocr. radiatus Miinster. Type of the genus. Beitr. z. Petref., i, p. 2, PI. 

 1, figs. 3 a-d ; De Koninck, 1842, Desc. Anim. Foss., p. 40, PI. i, figs. 6 a-d ; 

 Austin, 1843, Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin., p. 45, PI. 5, figs. 5 a-d; D'Orbigny, 

 1850, Prodr. de Paleont. i, p. 166; De Kon. and Leh., 1853, Rech. Crin. 

 Carb. Belg. p. 149, PI. 4, figs. 8 a-d ; Pictet, 1857, Traite de Paleont. iv, p. 

 333, PI. 101, fig. 18; Bronn, 1860, Klassen d. Thierreichs, ii, PI. 28, figs. 9 

 a-b. Mount, limest. Mendip Hills, Eng., and Tournay, Belg. 



1861. Dichocr. scitulus Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin. p. 4; also Bost. Jour. Nat. 



Hist., p. 289. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1853. Dichocr. sculptus De Kon. and Leh. (not Cass, and Lyon, 1860). Rech. Crin. 



Carb. Belg., p. 154, PI. 4, figs. 14 a, b, c. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 1857. Dichocr. simplex Shmmard. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, p. 74, PI. 1, fig. 2; 



Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 654, PI. 23, figs. 12 a, b. Warsaw 



limest. Spurgeon Hill, Ind.; also St. Mary's Landing, Mo., and Sparta, Tenn. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 259 



1850. Dichocr. Striatus Ow. and Sh. Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. vol. ii, Pt. i, j 

 also U. S. Geol. Kep. Iowa, Wis. and Minn. p. 590, PI. 5 A, figs. 10 a, b. 

 Upper Burlington limest, Burlington, Iowa. 



9. TALAROCRINTJS, nov. gen. , 



{ralapog a small basket, Kplvov a lily.) 



Syn. DicTiocrinus Shumard (in part) 1860 (not Miinster). Trans. 



Acad. Sci. St. Louis. 

 Syn. Dichocrinus Cass, and Lyon (in part) 1860. Proc. Am. Acad, 



Arts and Sci., v, p. 16. 



Among the species described by Shumard imder Dichocrinus 

 there are two, which differ materially from that genus and from 

 Pterotocrinus, with which they are nearest related. Meek and 

 Worthen, in their generic description of Pterotocrinus (Geol. Rep. 

 111., ii, p. 290), recognized more than specific differences between 

 the form represented by Shumard's Dichocrinus cornigerus and 

 D. sexlobatus, and the genus Pterotocrinus with which these two 

 species had been identified, and thej' proposed either to divide the 

 genus into two sections, or to separate the above species from it 

 sub-generically. Shumard afterwards and also S. A. Miller, in 

 their catalogues placed both species under Pterotocrinus. 



Wetherby (Cin. Journ. Nat. Hist., 18t9, Apr. number) on the 

 other hand, refers the above species to Dichocrinus and considers 

 them altogether di!i*"nct from Pterotocrinus. In the latter con- 

 clusion he is undoubtedly correct, but we cannot see that their 

 relations to Dichocrinus are any closer. They evidently form a 

 little group by themselves, which in nature occiapies a place 

 between the two genera, forming a connecting link between them. 

 We propose for this group the generic name Talarocrinus with 

 D. cornigerus Shum. as the type. 



Generic Diagnosis. — General form of body ovoid ; composed 

 of heavy plates. Calyx subconical ; plates convex, deeply im- 

 pressed at the suture lines, and hence more or less protuberant ; 

 surface smooth. 



Basals two, pentagonal, precisely alike, the suture running from 

 the posterior to the anterior side. First radials large, quadran- 

 gular, nearly as wide as high, aranged in line with the first anal 

 plate, which is as large or larger than the radials, and of similar 

 form. The upper edge is excavated, but not semicircular, there 




260 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



being an angular process in the middle. Second radials^ very 

 minute, often not visible externall}^ and resting from within 

 against the median angular process within the articulating depres- 

 sion of the large radial. Their inner face is much larger, trian- 

 gular in form, with concave sides. The arrangement is such that 

 these sides, together with the outer portions of the articulating 

 scar of the first plates, form two semicircular sockets, supporting 

 each a small pentagonal bifurcating secondary radial, which here, 

 as in Pterotocrinus and Ilan^upiocrinus, constitutes a part of the 

 bod}-, and in turn supports two arms, or twenty arms in all. 

 Form of the arms unknown. 



Vault generally of equal height with the calyx, decidedly lobed 

 when viewed from above ; composed of numerous small pieces, 

 some of them spiniferous ; toward the posterior side obliquely 

 flattened, with a lateral anal aperture towards the upper end. 

 Radial area elevated, and extending outward ; interradial portions 

 depressed, posterior side much wider. Central vault piece large, 

 nodose or spiniferous. The four large proximal plates occupy in 

 four of the interradial spaces the upper portion of the depression, 

 while the two smaller ones rest partly against the radial portions 

 of the dome, with several small anal plates and the anal aperture 

 between them. Interradial vault pieces three, rather large, and 

 much higher than wide. The first radial vault piece is spiniferous 

 in most species, the succeeding plates small and nodose, arranged 

 longitudinally in rows, forming together regular arches over the 

 ambulacral passages within the body. There is a large elongate 

 brachial piece between the two divisions of each ray, which at its 

 lower end connects with the upper point of the second radial, 

 thus giving origin to two arm openings in each ray. The anal 

 area has three large pieces in the first series, which rest upon the 

 anal plate of the calyx, the median one has form and size of the 

 interradial plates, the two others are smaller. In the second 

 series there are two plates, followed by a number of minute pieces 

 surrounding the anal aperture, which is protuberant. 



Column probably cylindrical and small, with a minute central 

 canal. 



Talarocrinus differs from Dichocrinus in the greater promi- 

 nence of the plates in the calyx ; its higher vault ; in having the 



' Shumard described Dichoer. cornigerus with a single radial, but the 

 second is present in the species though hidden from view exteriorly. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 261 



secondary radials forming part of the calj^x, and in having the 

 anal opening through the vault, and not at the end of a tube. It 

 differs from Pterotocrinus in the very different form of the calyx ; 

 in having no teiliary radials in the calyx ; in the form of the 

 dome, and the absence of lobed processes. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The genus is known onlj^ from the 

 St. Louis and Kaskaskia groups of the United States. 



We recognize the following species : — 



*t857. Talarocrinus cornigerus .^humard. (Dichocr. cornigerus.1 Type of the 

 genus. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, i, p. 72, PI. 1, figs. 1 a, b ; Pterotocr. 

 cornigerus Shumard, 1866, Cat. Pal. Foss. N. Amer., i, p. 393 ; S. A. Miller, 

 Pterotocr. cornigerus, Catal. Pal. Foss., p. 89. Kaskaskia limest. Frank- 

 lin Co., Ala. 



*1860. Talarocr. elegans Cass, and Ljon. (Dichocr. elegans.) Proc. Am. Acad. 

 Arts and Sci., v, p. 22. St. Louis limest. Edmonson Co., Ky. 



*1857. Talarocr. sexlobatus Shumard. (Dichocr. sexlobatus). Trans. Acad. Sci. 

 St. Louis, vol. i, p. 6, PI. i, figs. 3 a, b, c ; S. A. Miller (Pterotocr sexloba- 

 tus), Catal. Pal. Foss., p. 89. Kaskaskia limest. Russelville, Ky. 



*1860. Talarocr. symmetricus Cass, and Lyon. (Dichocr. symmetricus.) Proc. 

 Am. Acad. Arts and Sci., vol. v, p. 22. Ka.^kaskia limest. Edmonson 

 Co., Ky. 



10. PTEEOTOCEINTJS Lyon and Casseday. 



1859. Lyon and Casseday. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, xxix, p. 68. 

 1866. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 288. 

 1879. Wetherby. Journ. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (April). 

 1879. Wetherby. Ibid. ( October No, ) . 

 1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Palaeont., i, p. 365. 



Syn. Asterocrinus Lyon, 1857 (not Miinster). Geol. Rep. Ky., iii, 

 p. 472. 



Pterotocrinus was first described in 185T by Lyon under the 

 name of Asterocrinus., which, being previously occupied by Miin- 

 ster, was changed to the former in 1859 by Lyon and Casseday. 



Meek and Worthen, in revising the genus in 1866, indicated in 

 their generic formula four series of interradial plates, which is 

 evidently a mistake, as that order of plates is entirel}^ absent in 

 the calyx. They further changed the term " wings or lobed 

 pieces " of Lyon into " interbrachial appendages," 



In 1879, Prof. Wetherb}^, who had obtained very perfect speci- 

 mens from Kentucky, published some new and interesting obser- 

 vations on the genus, and described in the April and October 

 numbers of the Journ. of the Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., three new 

 species. He considered the small plates which had been recog- 




262 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



nized by Meek and Worthen as second radials, to be mere acces- 

 sory pieces. These plates are exceedingly small and rudimentary 

 in this genus, sometimes almost obsolete ; but in their minuteness 

 they are clearly the analogues of the second primary radials in 

 other genera, and should be so described. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx depressed, saucer-shaped, much 

 wider than high ; symmetry bilateral. Vault high, pyramidal, 

 pentagonal in outline, crowned by five wing-like lateral extensions 

 or processes, which form one of the most characteristic features 

 of this remarkable genus. Plates without surface ornamentation, 



Basals two, large, of similar form, pentagonal, the suture run- 

 ning from the anterior to the posterior side ; they form a shallow 

 cup, with a central depression for the attachment of the column. 

 Posterior side of the cup angularly excavated for the reception of 

 a rather large, lance-shaped, subtriangular anal plate, the opposite 

 side of which is similarly excavated, supporting the anterior 

 radial. First radials almost twice as wide as high, increasing 

 rppidly in width from their lower suture upward. The anterior 

 radial is heptagonal, the two adjoining radials hexagonal. The 

 two posterior first radials are of somewhat difierent form on 

 account of the triangular or quadrangular anal piece which is inter- 

 calated between them, and they are either heptagonal or hexagonal 

 according as this plate is of equal height with them or shorter. 

 The upper side of the first radials is excavated and more or less 

 concave, it supports not only the second primar}^ radials, but also 

 the two secondary ones, and, what is most remarkable, one of the 

 first series of tertiary radials; all of which plates, with 1 X 2 X 20 

 additional tertiary radials, form part of the calyx. The second 

 primary radial is placed within the concavity of the first plate ; 

 it is very minute, sometimes invisible externally, of triangular 

 form, and supporting on each sloping face a single series of bifur- 

 cating plates, which rank as secondary radials. These latter meet 

 above the apex of the small second radial, and rest by one side 

 upon the large first radials, while their two upper faces support 

 from 2 to 3 X 20 tertiary radials, or 2 X 4 to each ray. Of these 

 plates, the two outer ones of each ray rest with one side upon the 

 outer extremity of the margin of the first radials, with the outer 

 side against one of the upper sloping faces of the secondary 

 radials, the inner sides meet each other, while their upper faces 

 support a second tertiary radial. The two plates toward the 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 263 



inner ray are narrower, truncate below, resting upon the longer 

 upper face of the secondary radials, and support like the outer 

 plates one or two plates in succession, which in turn support the 

 arms. The radials of the higher orders are almost of equal size, 

 and at least twice as wide as high. There is no interradial within 

 the calyx, and no other anal plate but the one described.^ 



Dome highly elevated, pyramidal, pentagonal in outline. The 

 angles which are radial, are excavated for the attachment of the 

 large radial processes. The sides of the pentagon are the inter- 

 radial spaces, which seem to have faint grooves, running longi- 

 tudinally, wherein the arms rest. Four of the interradial spaces 

 are of equal size, the fifth somewhat larger. All five are similarl}^ 

 constructed, and contain three plates in the lower series. The 

 middle or first interradial plate is the larger, its two upper sides 

 forming an angle. The two adjacent plates, as will be explained 

 presently, are representations of radials of a second order. 

 Above these and alternating with them, rests a second series of 

 interradials, composed of two plates, larger than the first, and 

 these meet laterally with corresponding plates of adjacent rays. 

 The upper series, representing the proximal vault pieces, consists 

 of a single plate in four of the spaces, and two slightly smaller 

 ones in that of the posterior side, which all join laterally and 

 form a continuous ring. In a few instances only, there appears 

 to be a small anal plate located between the two smaller proximal 

 plates. 



The first radial dome plates are enormously developed in the 

 form of wing-like processes which form the most characteristic 

 feature of the genus. Succeeding these outward, toward the rim, 

 are two small secondary radial dome-plates, one on each side of 

 the lower interradial, and two still smaller plates bifurcating from 

 the last, which are tertiary radial dome plates, but which are rarely 

 observed. Besides these there is a rather large, very peculiar 

 interbrachial plate, beneath the winged first radial. The winged 

 extensions of the first radial dome plate are very variable in form. 

 They are, according to Wetherby, either spatulate, claviform, or 

 cuneiform ; in some species thin and knife-like throughout their 



* In one of Wetherby" s specimens which he kindly loaned us, we found 

 a little triangular piece resting upon the anal plate. Whether this is ab- 

 normal, or a deviation from the general rule and of specific importance, 

 we are as yet unable to say. 




264 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



length ; in others thickened and rounded above, and slightly 

 thinner below ; in some terminating in thin round edges, in others 

 tapering almost to a point ; while still others are bifurcate at the 

 extremities. The monstrous plates, which rise to the full height 

 of the summit, and laterally extending far beyond it, rest chiefly 

 upon the surface of the vault, within grooves, bordered by elevated 

 ridges along the interradial and proximal dome plates, and only a 

 small portion at the lower end is wedged in between other plates. 

 The ridges continue along the interbrachial plate, which for a 

 plate of that order is unusually large. The interbrachial plates, 

 together with the secondary radials and lower interradials, form 

 the base of the dome. 



The summit leans somewhat to the posterior side, more espe- 

 cially the upper portion, which in the best specimens consists of a 

 small cone, composed of a number of small plates, which decrease 

 in size ui)ward, leaving a minute anal opening at the upper end 

 of the. cone.' 



In front of the anal opening, and in the radial centre, there is a 

 pentagonal plate which is at once recognized as the central dome 

 plate. To this plate converge not only the radial grooves in 

 which the winged processes rest, but also the smaller grooves 

 within the interradial spaces which receive the arms. These 

 latter pass into the ambulacral or arm openings, which are rather 

 large, and have an upward direction. 



The arms are short, simple, gradually diminishing in size up- 

 ward, extending to the top of the vault, but not beyond it. They 

 are twenty in number, divided by the winged processes into groups 

 of four, each containing two arms of two different rays. They 

 are constructed of two rows of short interlocking joints, moder- 

 ately convex on the dorsal side. Ambulacral furrows, wide and 

 deep. Pinnules short, stout, composed of five or six joints. 



The visceral cavity, as seen from one of Wetherby's specimens, 

 (vertical section) is deeper than would be expected from the form 

 of the body. The basal plates are very thin, while the radials, to 

 the top of the third order, increase rapidl3^ in thickness. 



Column slender, round ; central perforation small. 



' It is very possible that in some of the species the anus is not thus ex- 

 tended into a tube-like cone, but this is the case in Pterotocrinus depressus 

 Lyon and Cass. The anal aperture is but rarely observed, being generally 

 covered by the shell of a Gasteropod. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 265 



Geological Position^ etc. — Pterotocrinus is the last survivor of 

 the PIat3^erinidse, and occurs only in the Kaskaskia limestone of 

 America. 



The following species are known : — 



1879. Pterotocrinus acatas Wetherby. Joum. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (Oct. No.), p. 1, 



PI. 11, figs. 2 a, b, c. Kaskaskia limest. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 1879. Pterotocr. Mfurcatus Wetherby. Journ. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (Oct. No.), p. 3, 



PI. 11, figs. 1 a, b, c. Kaskaskia limest. Pulaski Co., Ky. 

 1857. Pterotocr. oapitalis Lyon. (Asterocr, capitalis). Type of the genus. Ky. Geol. 



Surv., iii, p. 472, PI. 3, figs. 1 a-k ; Lyon and Cass., 1859, Pterotocr. capitalis, 



Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. x.xix, p. 68. Kaskaskia limest. Crittenden 



Co., Ky. 

 1860. Pterotocr. Chestereiisis Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 383; 



and 1866, Geol. Rep. 111. ii, p. 292, PI. 23, figs. 1 a, b, c. Kaskaskia limest. 



Hardin Co., 111. 

 1857. Pterotocr. coronatus Lyon (Asterocr. coronatus). Ky. Geol. Surv , iii, p. 



476, PI. 1, figs. 1, 1 a. Kaskaskia limest. Crittenden Co., Ky. 

 1860. Pterotocr. crassus Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. p. 382, and 



1866, Geol. Rep. Ill , ii, p. 240, PI. 23, figs. 2 a, b. Kaskaskia limest. Har- 

 din Co., 111. 

 1859. Pterotocr. depressus Lyon and Cass. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. xxix. 



p. 68. Kaskaskia limest. Grayson Springs, Ky. 

 *1858. Pterotocr. protaberans Hall. (Dichoor. protuberans). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, 



Pt. 2, p 689, PI. 25, fig. 7. Kaskaskia limest. Chester, 111. 

 1859. Pterotocr. pyramidalis Lyon and Cass. Am. Joum. Sci. and Arts, xxix, p. 



69. Kaskaskia limest. Grayson and Edmonson Cos., Ky. 

 This species is evidently identical with P. depressus, and was described from 



a specimen showing the vault in place of the arms. 

 1879. Pterotocr. spatulatus Wetherby. Journ. Cin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (Oct. No.), p. 4, 



PI. 11, figs. 3 a, b, c. Kaskaskia limest. Pulaski Co., Ky. 



B. ACTINOCEINIDJE Roemer and Zittel. 



(Amend. Wachsm. and Spr.) 



The name Actinocrinidsfi was first employed b}- Roemer in 1855, 

 who arranged under it Actinocrinus, Amphoracrinus, Dorycrinus 

 and Batocrinus, genera without underbasals, with three basal 

 plates, and in which the first anal piece extends to the line of the 

 first radials. He placed Melocrinus and all genera with four 

 basals and no anal plate within the first radial ring under his 

 Melocrinidjfi, not including, however, Eucalyjjtocrinus nor Cteno- 

 crinus, which latter, as he supposed, had only three basals. 

 Periechocrinus ( Pradocrinus and Saccocrinus), which he thought 

 differed in the anal area, and Ctenocrinus, he placed with Glypto- 

 crinus — of which the underbasals had not been discovered — under 




266 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the CtenocrinidiTe ; while Carpocrinus and Macrostylocrinus were 

 referred to the Cyathocrinidae. 



Zittel amended Actinocrinidse by admitting Periechocrinus^ 

 Erelmocrinus^ AUoprosallocrinus, StrotocriniiSj Sleganocrinus. 

 Agaricocrinus and Megistocrinus, partly, however, as subgenera 

 of Actinocrinus. He, like Roemer and Angelin, separated the 

 genera with four basals, and ranged Stelidiocrinus and Harmo- 

 crinus, which have five basal pieces, under a distinct family. 

 Zittel further excluded Carpocrinus, Hahrocrinus and Desmido- 

 crinus, species with single arm joints, for which he proposed the 

 name Carpocrinidse, and he placed under the Dimerocrinidaa 

 Marcostylocrinus and Dolatocrinus^ genera with three basals and no 

 anal plate in line with the first radials, and among these he admitted 

 Gytocrinus, which we have ascertained has four and not three 

 basals, and Dirtier ocrinus, which has underbasals. 



The fact that in those classifications the least mistake or mis- 

 conception as to the number of the basals, a diversity in the 

 position or distribution of the anal plates, or a slight variation in 

 the form of the arm joints, throws the genus from one family into 

 another, is in itself sufficient proof, that the divisions are arbitrary 

 and artificial. A classification based upon fossils should be as 

 simple as possible, resting upon a broad basis, and the family di- 

 visions should express important and evident structural features, 

 and be not dependent upon such trifling variations as the number 

 of basal plates, etc. 



We place among the Actinocrinidte all genera of the Sphan-oido- 

 crinidfB, which are constructed of basals (without underbasals) ; 

 3 X 5 — rarely 2 X 5 — primary radials, all forming a part of the 

 calyx; one or more higher orders of radials, with at least one, 

 but generally several additional interradial pieces beneath the arm 

 regions ; a vault composed of a large number of heavy plates in 

 contact with each other ; and we include species both with single 

 and double jointed arms. 



For greater convenience of study we arrange the genera under 

 six sections. 



a. Stelidiocrinites: The simplest form of the sub-family. General 

 symmetry more or less perfectly pentahedral ; calyx low ; basals 

 five or three ; second radials short ; anal and interradial area 

 scarcely distinct ; arms single or double jointed. 



h. Agaricocrinites : Symmetry decidedly bilateral ; calyx low ; 




1881.] NATtJRAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 267 



basals three ; second primary radials quadrangular and short ; 

 the first anal plate in line with the first radials ; arms heavy, 

 simple, composed of single or double joints. 



c. llelocrimtes : S3mmetry more or less uniformly pentahedral ; 

 calyx large ; basals four or three ; second radials comparatively 

 high and generally hexagonal ; interradials numerous ; anal side 

 but little distinct and its plates not extending to the line of the 

 first radials ; interaxillaries sometimes present ; arms given off 

 laterally ; columnar canal pentalobate and rather large. 



d. Periechocrinites : General symmetry bilateral; calyx very 

 large ; basals four or three ; second radials large, frequently higher 

 than wide ; interradials and interaxillaries numerous ; first anal 

 plate in line with the first radials, succeeded by three plates in the 

 second series; arms branching; column large, and with a wide 

 pentalobate canal. 



e. Actinocrinites : Symmetry slightly bilateral ; calyx large ; 

 basals three ; second primary radials nearly as high as wide, hex- 

 agonal ; higher orders of radials numerous, composed of one series 

 of plates each, which give off the arms alternately from opposite 

 sides ; interradials in two rows ; the first anal plate enclosed be- 

 tween the first radials, supporting only two plates in the second 

 series; interaxillaries generall}' present; arms long, double jointed. 



/. Batocrinites ; symmetry more or less bilateral ; calyx large ; 

 basals three ; second radials short, linear ; higher orders of radials 

 rarely exceeding three, the plates of the last order touching later- 

 ally all around the body, except sometimes over the anal area. 

 Interradials few ; interaxillaries absent ; first anal plate in line 

 with the first radials, second series composed of three plates ; 

 arms short, double jointed. 



These groups are founded upon the construction of the anal 

 area, in connection with the form and arrangement of the radial 

 plates and the arms. A division merely based upon the construc- 

 tion of the anal area, as we have adopted among Platycrinidae, 

 would bring together the Stelidiocrinites and Melocrinites as op- 

 posed to the Agaricocrinites, Periechocrinites and Batocrinites, 

 while the Actinocrinites would occupy a place somewhat between 

 the two. A separation by means of the second primary radials 

 brings into closer proximity Stelidiocrinites and Agaricocrinites, 

 in which those plates are short, linear and quadrangular, against 

 the three other sections in which the}^ are comparatively high and 




268 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



hexagonal. An exception is here found in Dolatocrinus and 

 Stereocrinus^ in which the second radials are quadrangular or even 

 absent, and which should perhaps be placed more properly in a 

 group by themselves. 



The form of the second radials is no doubt of some importance 

 in the structure of these crinoids. In species in which they are 

 quadrangular and linear, the second and third radials together 

 very often fail to attain the size of the first radial plate. In 

 various cases of Dolatocrinus^ Alloprosallocrinus and Batocrinus, 

 the second radials are so small that they are discovered with diffi- 

 cult^' , and are not un frequently in single rays entirely absent. In 

 species in which the plates of the calyx are tuberculous, they are 

 often the only plates which bear no tubercle. All this hints at 

 the conclusion that the second and third radials, which combined 

 take the form of a single bifurcating plate, here take the place of 

 a single plate joined by syzygy, with the epizygial part bearing an 

 arm instead of a pinnule, and that in species which as a rule have 

 only two primary radials, but otherwise agree with some other 

 genus, the joints became perfectly anchylosed. Such was evi- 

 dently the case with Dolatoci'inus and Stereocrinus, Eucrinus 

 and Anthevwcrinus, Lecanocrivus and Pycnosaccus. In Platy- 

 crinus, which also has only two primary radials, the division 

 appears yet frequently in form of a shallow groove at the surface 

 of the plate, where the earlier Platycrinidse have a regular 

 suture. 



In species with more than ten arms, the rays are generally com- 

 posed of two main divisions, of which each side gives off arms in 

 opposite directions. The onl}' exception is Steganocrinus sculjytus 

 Hall, in which the ray is undivided (PI. 18, fig. 3). In this 

 species, the third primary radials, like all succeeding plates 

 (radials of superior orders), take the form of pinnule-bearing 

 plates, which, instead of bifurcating, give off" laterally arms in 

 the same manner as the others do pinnules. 



This is of interest, as it leads to the conclusion that probably 

 the secondary radials — the distichalia of Miiller — made their 

 appearance in the young crinoid in form of a pinnule given off 

 from the radials which at first formed the only arms of the ray. 



We have already shown in our general remarks on the family 

 that the higher orders of radials were in the young animal free 

 arm plates, and we have proved by many examples that the arms 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 269 



spring off in exactly the same manner as the pinnules, and they 

 evidently were pinnule-like in their earlier form. 



The earliest Actinocrinidae known to us are found in the Upper 

 Silurian, but the species and even genera which already occur 

 there are so numerous, and show such variety of form, and some 

 of them appear to be so highly developed, that evidently the family 

 had been represented at a much earlier epoch. It is possible that 

 Schizocrinus Hall of the Lower Silurian, which is imperfectly 

 known, should be referred to the Actinocrinida, but it may have 

 underbasals. In the earlier representatives of this family, the 

 underbasals form the criterion by which alone the Actinocrinidfe 

 and Rhodocrinidfe can be distinguished, and as these plates in the 

 earlier types are very minute, it is often exceedingly difficult to 

 make the separation. In Glyptocrinus the underbasals may per- 

 haps be absent in some species, but when visible they are exceed- 

 ingly rudimentary. Species without them might be referred, 

 almost with the same proprietj' to the ActinocrinidjB, and indeed, 

 they have a remarkably close resemblance to species of IMocrinus 

 and Mariacrinus yvith. four basal plates. A similar relation exists 

 between Dimerocrinus and Stelidiocriniis, Glyptaster' and Perie- 

 chocrinus, which can be distinguished only by the underbasals. 



In Stelidwcrinus and Melocrinus, we recognize representatives 

 of two of the four divisions of the Actinocrinidse which occur in 

 the Upper Silurian. The two differ essentially in the relative 

 size of their body, and in the number and distribution of the 

 plates in the calj'x, but agree in the arrangement of their anal 

 area. Carpocrinus and Periechocrinus, which belong to the same 

 geological age, are separated by the very same characters, the 

 former agreeing closely with Stelidiocriniis, the latter with 

 Melocrinus^ but both are readily distinguished by having a special 

 anal plate in line with the first radials. 



The Stelidiocriniles disappear in the Upper Silurian, where 

 they are first known. The Periechocrimtes and Agaricocrinites 

 survived to the Subcarboniferous, the former to the Burlington, 

 the latter to the Keokuk epoch. The Melocrinites became extinct 

 in the Devonian. The Actinocrinites and Batocrinites are 

 restricted almost exclusively to the Subcarboniferous ; a few 

 aberrant forms are known from the Hamilton group. The 

 Actinocrinidse became altogether extinct after the age of the 

 Warsaw limestone. 




270 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



We arrange the six sections as follows : — 



a, Stelidiocrinites. 



1. Briarocriiius Angelin. 4. Macrostylocrinus Hall. 



2. Stelidiocrinus Angelin. Subgenus Centrocrinus 



3. Patelliocrinus Angelin. Wachsmuth & Springer. 



b. Agaricocrinites. 



5. Carpocrim/s Miiller. 6. Agnricocrinus Troost. 



Subgenus Desmidocrinus Subgenus Alloprosallocrinus 



Angelin. Lyon & Casseday. 



c. Melocrikites. 



7. Mariacrinus Wachsm. & Spr. 10. Scypliocrimis Zenker. 



8. Teehnocrinus Hall. 11. Dolatocrinus Lyon. 



9. Melocrinus Goldfuss. Subgenus Stereocrinus Barris. 



d. Perxechocrinites. 

 13. Periechocrinus Austin. 14. Megistocrinus Owen & Shumard. 



13. Abacoc7'inus Angelin. 



e. ACTINOCRINITES. 



15. Actinocrinus Miller. 19. PJiysetocrinus Meek & Worthen. 



16. Teleiocrimis Wachsm, & Spr. 20. Strotocrinus Meek & Worthen. 



17. Steganocrinus Meek & Worthen. 21. GenncBocrinus Wachsm. & Spr. 



18. Amphoracrinus Austin, 



/. BatocRinites. 



22. Batocrinus Casseday. 24. Dorycrinus F. Roemer. 



23. Eretmocrinus Lyon & Casseday. 



a. STEMDlOCRliJITES. 

 i. BRIAKOCRINTJS Angelin. 



1878. Angelin. Iconog. Crin. Suec, p. 1. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palseont., i, p. 367. 



Briarocrinus represents the simplest conceivable form that can 

 be admitted among the Actinoerinidoe. It has two interradial 

 plates, and these, in the typical species, are situated above the 

 line of the third primary radials. Its perfectly straight arm 

 joints suggest an immature crinoidal structure. 



B. angustus Angl. is too plainly distinct from B. injiatus Angl., 

 in the construction of the plates of the calyx, and particularly in 

 the interradial portions, to be admitted into the same genus, and 

 as it agrees with no other, we should propose it as the type of a 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2^1 



new genus, if we had before us specimens instead of a single 

 figure. For want of material, we leave it here for the present. 



Angelin and Zittel arranged Briarocrinus under a separate 

 famil}', in which the latter includes Gulicocrinus. It is true that 

 B. injiatus deviates from all other Actinocrinidse in its interradial 

 parts, but it differs fully as much from Gulicocrinus in the same 

 characters, the latter being decidedly a Platycrinoid Briarocrinus, 

 in our opinion, leans rather toward the Ichthyocrinidse, with 

 which it agrees in the alternate arrangement of the radial plates, 

 but it has evidently not their pliant body. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx cup-shaped ; symmetry pentahedral, 

 with some inequality in the sides due to irregularities in the radial 

 series. 



Basals three, usually large, two of them equal and larger than 

 the third. Primary radials 3X5, wider than high, joining 

 laterally. The third is a bifurcating plate with very obtuse 

 upper angles, supporting in almost vertical succession 3 X 10 

 secondary radials, which are half the width of the primary radials, 

 and interlock up to the second plate ; the third pair being 

 separated by a small axillary piece. The radials are generally 

 irregular in form, even those of a like order or series are differing 

 markedly among each other in height and width. In some of the 

 ra3'S, the first radials are larger by half than in others, and in 

 these the second radials are much higher and generall}' wider ; in 

 others only one side of the plate is lower, a construction pro- 

 ducing a sort of alternate arrangement of the plates, which 

 extends up to the secondary radials. The plates of this second 

 order are separated from each other, laterally, by a line of two 

 small interradial pieces, which in alternate rays, respectively, rest 

 upon the upper corners of two of the third primaries, or upon the 

 upper sloping side of the first secondary radial. 



Arms ten, supported directly upon the secondary radials ; 

 heav}^ simple, composed of single transverse round joints, with 

 parallel sutures and long pinnules. 



Posterior or anal side, so far as known, not distinct. 



Column round. 



In the absence of interradial plates between the primary radials, 

 and in the alternate arrangement of the latter, this genus differs 

 from all others of the family. 




212 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Found thus far only in the Upper 

 Silurian of Sweden. 



1878. Briarocrinas inflatus Angelin. Iconogr. Grin. Suec, p. 1, PI. 10, fig. 23. 



Upper Silur. (rothland, Sweden. 

 (?] 1878. Briarocr. angustus Angelin. Iconogr. Grin. Suec., p. 1, PI. 10, fig. 22. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Swei'en. 



2. STELIDIOCRINTJS Angelin. 

 (Amend. Wachsmuth and Springer.) 



1878. Angelin, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 21. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palajont. , i, p. 345. 



Syn. Harmocrinus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 23. 



We are obliged to include Angelin's genus Harmocrinus in 

 Stelidiocrinus. A few additional interradial or interaxillary 

 plates do not alone warrant a generic or even subgeneric separa- 

 tion. According to Angelin and Zittel, StelidiocrinuH and 

 Harmocrinus, with Hall's Schizocrinus, form a distinct famil}'. 



The genus now under consideration is in more than one respect 

 an interesting form with reference to the Palaeontologic history of 

 the Crinoids. It is the only genus of the Actinocrinidae which 

 has five basal plates, none of them being anchylosed, and as this 

 is one of their earliest representatives, there can be little doubt 

 that the basals in this family, whether composed of a single piece 

 or of three or four, were derived originally from five. The rela- 

 tions also between this genus and Divierocrinus of the Rhodo- 

 crinidse are so close, that it may be asked whether the presence of 

 underbasals, which form the only distinction, should be considered 

 of more than generic importance. It shows, at all events, the 

 very close relations that exist between the two sub-families. There 

 is also to be seen within the limits of this genus, a modification 

 of the arms from interlocking single joints to a double series of 

 plates. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body small. Calyx subturbinate or sub- 

 ovate, without surface ornamentation ; radial plates prominently 

 elevated above the interradial areas, but not producing sharp 

 carinae. 



Basals five, equal, quadrangular, upper angles acute. Primary 

 radials 3X5; the first large, wider than high, lunate, hexagonal ; 

 the second quadrangular, shorter and much narrower ; the third 

 pentagonal, almost as wide but not as high as the first. Second- 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2t3 



ary radials 2 to 4 x 1^? wider than high, supporting in direct 

 line a single rather stout arm or ten in all. It is possible that the 

 number of secondary radials varies with age, and that there are 

 four in the adult. 



Arms composed either of a single row of cuneiform plates 

 slightly interlocking, or of two rows of short plates alternately 

 arranged. 



Interradials four to eight ; the first large, resting upon the 

 sloping sides of the first radials and between the second and third 

 of adjacent ra3's, the succeeding plates much smaller and connect- 

 ing with the vault pieces. Posterior area wider ; the first anal 

 piece in line with the first interradials, the second and third 

 ranges consisting of two instead of three pieces. Anus in form 

 of a simple lateral opening similar to Dorycrinus. 



Vault compressed, conij)osed almost exclusively of the apical 

 dome plates, which are unusually large. In Stelidiocr. capitulum, 

 the vault is constructed of only twenty-three pieces, the smallest 

 possible number of which a species with ten arms can be composed 

 in accordance with the rule prevailing among these crinoids. It 

 consists of the central piece, the six proximal plates, a single anal, , 

 and three radials to each ray. The two secondary radials of the 

 dome are exceedingly small, while the proximal vault pieces 

 occupy almost three-fourths of the entire summit. 



Column round, articulating faces crenulated. 



The genus resembles PatelUocriyius , but differs from it and all 

 similar genera in the number of basal plates. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Restricted to the Upper Silurian of 

 Europe. 



We recognize the following species . — 



1878, Stelidiocrinus capitulum Angelin. Type of the genus. Iconogr. Crin. Suec., 

 p. 21, PI. 17, figs. 5a-g. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



*1878. Stelidiocr. longimanus Angel. (Harmocr. longimanus). Iconogr. Crin, 

 Suec, PI. 21, figs. 6, 7. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



1878. Stelidiocr. Isevis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 21, PI. 15, figs. 20, 20a; 

 also PI. 27, figs, 3, 3a, (not PI. 28, figs, 7, a, b). Upper Silur. Gothland, 

 Sweden. 

 Angelin's figures are not so reliable as could be wished. Those of S. Isemg on 

 PI. 15 have single jointed arms, while those on PI. 27 have a double series of 

 plates. It may be possible that the former are taken from a young specimen. 

 The figures 7 a b, on PI. 28 are evidently referred to this genus by oversight, , 

 as they are clearly of Desmidocrimis maerodactyhia, 



19 




274 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1878. (?) Stelidiocr. ovalis AnKclin. Iconogr. Grin. Suec, p. 21, I'l. ID, fig. 6. 

 Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 This species differs from Stelidiocrinm in several important points and ought 

 to be separated from it. To judge from the construction of the anal plates 

 it should be removed to the Agaricocrinites, but it is possible, if the figure 

 is correct, and the interradial plates, as there represented, extend to the 

 basals in all five areae, that it possesses underbasals, and properly belongs 

 to the RhodocriMidae. We refrain from proposing new generic names 

 for these straggling forms, as we cannot altogether depend upon the figures, 

 and we hope they will be taken up by investigators more familiar with 

 these types, and who have access to the specimens. 



3. PATELLIOGIIINUS Angelin. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Criu. Suec, p. 1. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont, p. 368. 



Several of these species referred by Angelin to this genus 

 belong, in our opinion, to very distinct genera. His Pat. duplica- 

 tus has not only four arms to the ray, but as we judge from the 

 shape and size of the basals, evidentlj' had underbasals ; also the 

 first anal plate is in line with the first radials, while in all other 

 species of PatelliocyHnus those plates are ranged with the second 

 radials. In Pat. fulminatus the calyx is but imperfectly pre- 

 served, but we judge from what is exposed, that this species was 

 closely allied to another figured in Iconogr., PI. 18, fig. 16, as Melocr. 

 Volhorth.i.^ Both species have branching arms, unlike Patel- 

 lioci'inus, and are probably generically identical. We should 

 propose for them a new genus, if we had more perfect figures for 

 description. 



Zittel made Patelliocrinus a synon3'm of Dimerocrinus Phill., 

 wliich, however, has five basals instead of three, and underbasals. 

 In his classification he arranges Dimerocrinus with Dolatocrinus, 

 Cytocriniis with 3Iacrostylocrinus, and all under the Patellio- 

 crinidae. 



Patelliocrinus is one of those genera in which the arms as a 

 rule are neither single- nor double-jointed, and sometimes scarcely 

 interlocking at all, resembling herein Eupachycrinus and Eriso- 

 crinus of the Cyathocrinidse. 



Generic Diagnosis — General form oblong. Calyx patellifonn ; 

 symmetrj^ almost perfectly equilateral. 



' We take it that Melocr. Yolhortld is represented by PI. 7, figs. 7 to 11, 

 which is an entirely different thing from PI. 18, fig. 16. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 2^5 



Basals three, unequal ; two of them pentagonal, the third 

 smaller bj' one-half, and quadrangular. Primary radials 3X5; 

 the first ones forming laterally a continuous ring, larger than 

 those succeeding, heptagon'al, the lateral margins very long ; the 

 second quadrangular, wider than high ; the third axillary of 

 medium size, ui)per angle obtuse. Secondary radials 2 X 10, 

 which directly support the arms, or sometimes the second plate 

 is the bifurcating piece, and supports upon the inner and wider 

 sloping side an arm ; upon the smaller side an extraordinary large 

 pinnule, which takes the direction of the arm, being more erect 

 than the succeeding pinnules, and twice as heavy. The arms are 

 large, heav}' at the base, and towards the tips gradually tapering 

 hito a sharp point. The proximal arm plates are large, resembling 

 secondary radials, and like them are decreasing in height up- 

 ward ; succeeding joints cuneate, gradually passing into two 

 rows of interlocking pieces. In P. pinnulatus they pass scarcely 

 beyond the earliest stage of interlocking arms ; in P. chiastodac- 

 tylus the arms remain single-jointed throughout, but the joints 

 are strongly cuneiform. Pinnules long, rather strong, and com- 

 posed of single joints. 



Interradials three, the first very large, with a small one in the 

 second, and a still smaller triangular one in the third series, the 

 latter abutting against the large proximal arm-like pinnules. 

 There ai'e some species with five interradials, having two plates in 

 the second, and two in the third range. Anal side not structurally 

 distinct. 



Yault unknown, anal aperture apparently lateral. 



Column cylindrical. 



This genus, in its general habitus, resembles Agaricocrinus, 

 particularly its earlier and smaller species ; but the two genera are 

 very distinct in the construction of the anal area. 



Geological Position, etc. — Patelliocrinus, so far as now known, 

 is confined to the Upper Silurian of Europe. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1S7S. Patelliocrinus chiastodactylus Angelin. Icongr. Grin. Suec, p. 1, PI. 19, 



fig. 12. Upper Silur. Gvjthland, Swede n. 

 1878. Patelliocr. interradius Angelin. Iconogr. Grin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 22, fig. 10. 



Upper Sihir. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Patelliocr. leptodactylus Angelin. Iconogr. Grin. Suec., p. 2, PI. 16, figs. 26, 



31. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 




2t6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1878. Patelliocr. pachydaotylus Angelin (type of the genus). Iconogr. Grin. Suec, 



]<. 1, PI. 16, figs. 24, 25. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Patelliocr. pinnulatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 24, fig. 5 and 



PI. 26, fig. 18. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Patelliocr. plumulosus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 22, figs. 8, 9. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Patelliocr. punctuosus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 23, fig. 26. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 The two following species, which were described by Angelin under this genus, 



cannot be brought with satisfaction under this or any other established 



generic form. 

 (?) 1878. Patelliocr. duplicatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 1, PI. 19, fig. 5. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 (?i Patelliocr. fulminatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 2, PI. 26, figs. 14, 14 



a b. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



4. MACROSTYLOCRINUS Hall. 



1852. Hall. Paleout., New York, vol. ii, p. 203. 



1863. Hall. Trans, Albany Inst., p. 207. 



1879. Hall. 28tli Rep. New York St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (2d ed.), p. 129. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Paleout., p. 368. 



This genus has been frequently identified with Gtenocrinus 

 Bronn,^ and with Gytocrinus Roemer.^ 



It has been shown, however, by Schultze (Mon. Echin, Eifel 

 Kalk, p. 62), that Gtenocrinus has four, and not three or five 

 basal plates as supposed by previous authors,^ and we can state 

 positively, that we have also found four instead of three in Cyto- 

 crinus lasvis Roemer. This discovery leaves no doubt tliat the 

 two genera are identical with each other, as well as with Melo- 

 c/'irtHs Goldfuss, but distinct from Macroatylocrinus. 



In the construction of the calyx, Macrostylocrinus resembles 

 the preceding genus, the two varying only in the proportionate 

 size of the different plates ; but this gives them a totally' diff'erent 

 appearance. 



In its general habitus 3Iac7'ostylocrinus approaches the PeriecJio- 

 crinites, while Patelliocrinus is a step in the direction of the 

 Agaricocrinites. *We are sure that the vault of Macrostylocrinus 

 when found, will prove to be constructed of a great number of 

 minute pieces, while we shall expect in Patelliocrinus a summit 



^ Broun' s Jahrbucb, 1840, p. 253. 

 2 Silur. Fauna, West Teun., p. 46. 

 ^ Compare our notes on Melocrinus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 271 



more like that of Stelhliocrinus, which is composed of but few 

 and large plates. 



Zittel places Ilacrostijlocrinus with Dimerocrinus, Dolatocrinas 

 and Cijtocrinus under the Dimerocrinidfe. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Cal_yx subglobose to urn-shaped, as high or 

 liigher than wide ; surface granulose-striate, or only granulose ; 

 the five sides almost perfectl}^ equilateral. 



Basals three, comparatively lai'ge, forming a more or less shallow 

 cup, two of them equal and pentagonal, the third smaller by half 

 and quadrangular. Primary radials 3X5; the first series large ; 

 the second hexagonal, less than half, sometimes scarcel}^ one-third 

 the size of the first, wider than high ; the thii'd pentagonal, smaller 

 than the second, supporting one or more secondary- radials in a 

 direct line, which support the arms. Arms only known in M. 

 ornatus, where thej^ are long, simple, composed at the base of a 

 single row of alternately arranged wedge-form pieces, which, from 

 the sixtli or seventh plate up, interlock with each other, and gradu- 

 all}' pass into a double series. 



Interradial area more or less depressed, deeper between the 

 arm-bases, in consequence of which the radial portions of the calyx, 

 and especiallj^ the secondary radials, are somewhat lobed, which 

 is characteristic of this genus, and which distinguishes it readily 

 from the related form PateUiocrinus. First interradial large, 

 hexagonal, supporting two small plates in thft second series. 

 Anal area slightly wider, and with three plates in place of two in 

 the second range. 



Geological Position, etc. — 3Iacrostylocrinus is confined to the 

 Niagara group of America. 



The following species are known : 



*IS64. Macrostylocrinus Meeki Lyon. (Actinocr. Meeki). Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 411, PI. 4, figs. 4 a b. Niagara gr. Jefferson Co., Ky. 

 Syn. Cyathocr. fasciatus Hall. 28th Rep. New York St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (1st 



ed.), PI. 13, figs. 5 and 6 ; Wachsm. and Spr. Revision i, p. 85. AValdron, 



Ind. 

 Syn. Macrostylocrinus fasciatus Hall. lb. (2d edit.), p. 130. 

 1852. Macrostylocr. ornatus Hall (Type of the genus). Paleont., New York, ii, p. 



204, PI. 46, figs. 4 a-g. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1863. Macrostylocr. Striatus Hall. Trans. Albany Inst., iv, p. 207; also 20th Rep. 



New York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 1867, p. 327, PI. 10, fig. 7. Niagara gr. 



Waldron, Ind., and Racine, Wis. 




2'78 PllOCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



iiuh<r mis CENTROCRINUS Waclism. and Spr. 



This genus sliould not be confounded with Centrocrinus Austin,' 

 wliich in 1843, was proposed to distinguish a certain form of 

 Platijcrinus, but based altogether upon conjecture and incorrect 

 observation. 



The generic form now suggested embraces at present only two 

 species, Lyon's Actinocrinus pentaspinus and his A. muUicoryius, 

 of which we propose the former as the type. The two differ from 

 Actinocrinus essentially in the construction of the anal area, 

 having no plate in line with the first radials. The nearest allied 

 genus, and under wliich we place it subgenerically, is Macrostylo- 

 crinus, but this has three anal plates in the second series, in place 

 of two, while in Centrocrinus the posterior side is not in any way 

 distinct from the other four. The spiniferous form of some of 

 the body plates has suggested the name. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx subcylindrical ; s^anmetry perfect!}' 

 pentahedral; the principal plates produced into spines ; the calyx 

 in its lower portions almost resembling Platycrinus, owing to the 

 form and size of basals and first radials. 



Basal disk large, pentagonal, composed of three unequal pieces, 

 two of them pentangular, and twice the size of the third, whicli 

 is quadrangular. 



Primary radials 3X5; the first very large and spiniferous ; 

 second radials much smaller than the first, short and quadrangular 

 or nearly so ; third radials pentangular, sometimes triangular, as 

 short as — and occasionally narrower — than the second. Secondary 

 radials 1X10, bent abruptly outwai'd and supporting the arms. 

 There are, so far as known, two arms to each ray. 



Interradials four to five ; the first large and frequentl}' spinifer- 

 ous, deeply inserted between the first radials, in which the upper 

 lateral margins are exceptionally long ; second series composed 

 of two plates, much smaller than the first ; third series consisting 

 of one or two plates, located between the arm bases. Anal area 

 not distinct. Construction of vault and arms unknown. 



Column round, central canal round. 



Geological Position, etc. — Only known from the Devonian of 

 America. 



' Mon. Rec. and Foss. Crin. ,p. 6, proposed for species of Platycrinus 

 "with central valvate unobtrusive mouths, or mouths capable of being 

 withdrawn into the visceral cup." 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 279 



*1S60. Centrocr. multicornus Lyon (Actinocr. multicoraus). Trans. Amer. Philos. 

 Soc, vol. 13, p. 455, PI. 27, fig. e ; also Hall, Paleont. N. Y., vol. v, Pt. ii, 

 p. 6, (advance sheets 1878). Nucleocrinus bed. Falls of the Ohio. 



*1860. Centrocr. pentaspiaus Lyon (Actinocr. pentaspinus). Type of the sub- 

 genus. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc., vol. 13, p. 453, PI. 27, figs, d, d 1 ; also 

 Hall, Paleont. N. Y,, vol. v, Pt. ii, p. 6, (advance sheet). Nucleocrinus bed. 

 Falls of the Ohio. 



&. Agaricocrinites. 



5. CARPOCRINUS Miiller. 



(Amend. Wachsm. and Spr.) 



1841. Miiller. Monatsb. Berl. Akad. Wissenscli., i, p. 208. 

 1855. Miiller. Verhandl. naturh. Verein, xii, p. 19. 

 1855. F. Roemer. Lethsea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 237. 

 1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 328. 

 1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Palajont, i, p. 19. 



Syn. Plwenicocrimis Aust. 1843, Ann. and Mag. ISTat. Hist., xi, p. 205. 



Syn. Abracrinus D'Orb. 1850, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 47. (Not Ibid, 

 p. 156) ; also Course elem. de Paleont., ii, p. 144. 



Syn. Habrocrinus Angelin, 1878, Iconog. Crin. Suec, p. 3. 



Syn. Piojiocrinus Angelin. Ibid., p. 4. 



Angelin and the two Austins, in proposing their genera Piono- 

 crinus and Phoenicocrinus, were evidently not acquainted with 

 the genus Carpocrinus^ which had previously been described by 

 Miiller. Under Carjwcrinus, Miiller placed Actinocr inus simplex 

 and A. exjyansus Phill., but as the two species represent different 

 generic forms, as a rule, the first becomes the type of the 

 genus, and G. simj)lex has been recognized as such in 1855 b}' 

 Roemer. Neither can we accept, not even subgenericall}^ Habro- 

 crinus, {Abracrinus) D'Orbigny, which differs from Pionocrinus 

 solel}' in having a few more interradial plates. Closely allied is 

 also Desmidocrinus Angelin, which, however, has an additional 

 arm to each ray, with slight deviations in the arm-structure. 

 Whether this is sufficient for a separation from Garj^ocrinus, we 

 do not wish to decide, but it should clearl}^ be no more than 

 subgeneric. 



Pictet places Carpocrinus with Forbesiocrinus^ Taxocrinus^ 

 Graphiocriims, Lyriocrinus and ScypJwcrinus under the Garpo- 

 criniens; while D'Orbigny and Roemer connect it with the C^^atho- 

 crinidie. Austin combines Phoenicocrinus with Divierocrinus 

 and Tetramerocrinus under his Merocrinidje. 




280 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Zittel unites Hahrocrinus, Carpocrinus, Besmidocrinus aiul 

 Leptocrinus under Carpocrinidoe. 



The pinnules in this genus are exceedingly interesting. In 

 some of the species (compare Angelin's figures), we find toward 

 the interradial side the proximal pinnule much larger. It is given 

 off from a second secondary radial, which is converted into a regular 

 bifurcating plate ; it stands more erect than the other pinnules, 

 its lower portions embraced within the bod}' walls, its upper and 

 free parts following the direction of the arms. The construction 

 is such that we cannot doubt these large pinnules form a link 

 between arms and pinnules, which finally in Desmidocrinua became 

 transformed into regular arms. 



Generic Diagnoais. — General form oblong ; calyx short, cj'athi- 

 form ; symmetry'- bilateral 



Basals three, short ; two of them equal, the third smaller by 

 one-balf. Primary radials 3X5; the first larger than the other 

 two ; the second short, qiiadrangular or hexagonal ; the third 

 axillary giving off two, rarely 3 X 10 secondary radials. The 

 latter are rounded at the dorsal side, in form almost resembling 

 arm-joints, but larger, especially higher. The secondary radials 

 support directly the arms, of which there are ten to the entire 

 individual, and these remain simple throughout. 



The arms are long, heav}', cylindrical, tapering at their tips, 

 and are composed of short single joints, with parallel sutures. 

 Pinnules long, thread-like, composed of a great number of joints. 



Interradials from two to three in two series ; the first plate 

 •large, the upper series generally very small and indistinct. Some 

 of the larger species have a third series with their plates decreas- 

 ing in size upward. 



Anal area considerably wider, and composed of many more 

 plates. The first anal plate in line with the first radials, and fully 

 as large and even larger. There are three plates in the second 

 series, somewhat smaller than those of the first, and generally 

 three in each succeeding series, all arranged in longitudinal rows. 



Interaxillary plates from none in the very small species, to one 

 or three in larger ones. 



Vault only partly known. In Carpoci'inus ornatus (Iconogr. 

 Crin., PI. 27, fig 5) it seems to have been composed of a large 

 number of plates, among which the apical dome plates are easily 

 distinguished by their larger size : radial portions covered by 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 281 



two rows of low transversed pieces ; interpalmar fields paved by 

 somewhat larger and elongate plates. 



Column cylindrical, strong. 



Caj'pocrinus differs from all preceding genera in having a 

 spherical anal plate in line with the first radials, and from Agari- 

 cocrinus in having single arm joints. 



Geological Position^ etc. — From the Upper Silurian of England 

 and Sweden. 



We place here the following species : 



*1S78. Carpocrinus afi&nis Angelin (Pionocr. affinis.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 5, 



PI. 22, fig. 7. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. annulatus Angel. (Habrocr. annulatus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, 



PI. 22, fig. 15. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. cariosolus Angel. (Habrocr. cariosolus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec., p. 



3, PI. 3, figs. 7, 7 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. comptus Angel. (Habrocr. comptus.) leonogr. Crin. Sixec., p. 4, 



PI. 22, fig. 13. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr, decadactylus Angel. (Habrocr. decadactylus.) leonogr. Crin. 



Suec., p. 4, PI. 15, figs. 18, 19. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. elongatulus Angel. (Pionocr. elongatulus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, 



p. 5, PI. 22, figs. 16, 17. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 «1878. Carpocr. farctus Angel. (Pionocr. farctus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 5, PI. 



16, fig. 23, and PI. 22, figs. 5, 6. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr, grandis Angel. (Habrocr. grandis.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, PI. 



26, fig. 10. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. granulatus Angel. (Habrocr. granulatus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, 



p. 4, PI. 19, figs. 13, 13 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. laevis Angel. (Habrocr. Isevis ) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, PI. l9, 



figs. 21, a, b. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. longimanus Angel. (Harbrocr. longimanus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, 



p. 4, PI. 22, figs. 11, 12. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. ornatissimus Angelin. (Habrocr. ornatissimus.) leonogr. Crin. 



Suec, p. 4, PI. 6, fig. 9. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *187S. Carpocr. ornatus Angel. (Habrocr. ornatus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, PI. 



21, figs. 19, 20 and PI. 26, figs. 11, 12 and PI. 27, fig. 5. Upper Silur. Goth- 

 land, Sweden. 

 Figs. 12 a, b, on PI. 26, represent the convoluted digestive organ of this species. 



Its lateral sides are enclosed by a delicate intervisceral network of pentan- 

 gular outline. A similar plexus has been observed in Subcarboniferous 



genera, but always parallel with the walls of the body. 

 *1879. Carpocr. pinnulatus Angel. (Habrocr. pinnulatus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, 



p. 4, PI. 22, fig. 14. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 This species difi"ers from the typical form by having in two rays an additional 



arm. 

 *1878. Carpocr. pulcbellus Angel. (Pionocr. pulcbellus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, 



p. 5, pi. 3, figs. 9, 9 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Carpocr. robustus Angel. (Habrocr. robustus.) leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, 



pi. 22, fig. 19. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 




282 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1839. Carpocr. simplex Phill. (Actinocr, simplex.) Apud Murchison, Silur. Syst., 

 p. 673, I'l. 18, fig. 8 ; Austin, 1843, Phoenicocrinites simplex, Ann. and 

 Mag. Nat. Hist., xi, p. 2C5; D'Oriiigny, IS.")!), Abracrinus simplex, Troclr. 

 Paleont., i, p. 47; Roemer, 1855. Carpocrinus simplex, Letluca (iuogn , 

 (Ausg. 3), p. 237; Salter, 1870, Taxocr. simplex, Cat. Geol. Mus. Canibr., 

 p. 125; Angolin, 1878, Pionocr. simplex, Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 5, pi. 15, 

 15 a. Dudley, England and Gothland, Sweden. 

 Syii. (?) Actinocr. tesseracontadactylus, Hisinger, 1837, (not Goklf.), Lethaea 

 Suecia, p. 90, PI. 35, figs. 4, a-b; D'Orbigny, 1850. Ichthyocr. tesseracon- 

 tadactylus, Prodr. Paleont. i, p. 46; Salter, 1847, Cyathocr. tesseraconta- 

 dactylus, Murchison's Siluria, (ed. iv), PI. 14, fig. 4. (We follow Angelin in 

 placing this species a synonym under Carpocrinus simplex.) 



*1878. Carpocr. tenuis Angel. (Habrocr. tenuis,) Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 4, PI. 

 26, figs, 9, 9 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



*1878. Carpocr. umbonatus Angel. (Habrocr. umbonatus.) Iconogr. Crin. Suec, 

 p. 4, PI. 26, figs 13, 13 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



Subgenus DESMIDOCRINUS Angelin. 

 1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Ci-in. Suec, p. 5. 



General form oblong to subovoid. Calyx short, saucer- or cup- 

 shaped ; sj^mmetry bilateral. 



Basals three, small, scarcely projecting laterall}'. Radials 

 3x5; the first large, polygonal ; the second short, linear ; the 

 third transverse, pentagonal. Secondary radials 2x10, one side 

 of each ray bifurcating again giving off two arms, the other a 

 single one. 



In D. jyenfadactylus both halves branch again, thus making 

 three arms to one half, and two arms to the other half division, or 

 five arms to the ray, and twent^'-five to the individual. 



Arms long, heavy, cylindrical, composed of verj^ short joints, 

 which sometimes become wedge-form and almost interlocking. 

 Pinnules very long, largely articulated. 



Interradial and anal plates not differing from Carpocrinus. 



Column strong, round, composed of alternate large and smaller 

 joints ; central perforation pentagonal. 



The subgenus Desrtiidocrinus differs from the tj'pical form in 

 the greater number of arms, and that these are given off unequally 

 from the ray, also in having somewhat longer arms with shorter 

 joints. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Only found in the Upper Silurian of 

 Europe. Angelin refers to it the following species : 



1878. Desmidocrinus heterodactylus Angel. Iconogr. Crin Suec, p. 5. PI. 16, 16 a. 

 Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 283 



187S. Desmidocr. macrodactylus Angel. leonogr. Grin. Suec, p. 5, PI. 16, figs. 20, 



21. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1S7S. Desmidocr. pentadactylus Angel. leonogr. Crin. Suec., p. 5, PI. 16, figs. 



15, 22. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1S7S. Desmidocr. tridactylus Angel. leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 5, PI. 16, figs. 4, 4 a. 



Gothland, Sweden. (Probably identical with D. macrodaetylns.) 



6. AGAEICOCRINUS Troost. 



1850. Troost. List. Crin. Tenn. (Proc. Amer. Association), 



1858. Hall (Subgenus of Actinocr.). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii, p. 560. 



1866. Shumard (Subg. of Actinocr.). Cat. Pal. Foss., Pt. i, p. 350. 



1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p 397. 



1878. Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., p. 350. 



Syn. Amphoracrinus Roemer (not Austin), 1855. Letb. Geogn. 

 (Ausg. 3), p. 250. 



Syn. Amphoraci'inus Hall (not Austin), 1861. Bost. Jour. Nat. 

 Hist., p., 280. 



Syn. Actinocrinua Hall (in part), 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, Pt. ii. 



Some authors haA'e confounded Agaricocrinus with Amphora- 

 crinus Austin, with which it agrees in the depressed form of the 

 cal3-x and in the elevated dome, but while in Agaricocrinus the 

 calj'x or its equivalent extends to the secondary radials, that of 

 Amphoracrinus is properl}' composed of few plates, all the upper 

 radials, from the third primary up, being parts of free rays. 

 Amphoracrinus differs also in the form of the dome, in the spini- 

 ferous proximal vault pieces, in having an anal tube, in the surface 

 ornamentation, and in the arms. 



Hall, who first defined Troost's genus Agaricocrinus.^ placed it 

 subgenerically under ActinoaHnus, and referred to it exclusively 

 species with a broadl}' truncate or concave dorsal side, leaving all 

 similar t3'pes with a convex calyx under Actinocrinus. This can- 

 not be sustained, as we find among the species of this group all 

 intermediate gradations in this feature, while at the same time they 

 agree most remarkably in all other important characters. The 

 structure of Agaricocrinus is so marked that we do not hesitate 

 to rank it as a distinct genus. The differences in the form of the 

 calyx are modifications in geological succession. Species with 

 convex sides are confined to the Waverl}' group and to the Bur- 

 lington limestone ; species from the Upper Burlington are truncate 

 below, or slightly convex, rarely concave ; while the Keokuk 

 species, without exception, are deeply concave in the basal regions. 



We place under Agaricocrinus^ subgenericall}", AlloprosaUo- 




284 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



cinnus Lyon and Casseclay, which agrees with the latter in all 

 essential points, but differs in having an anal tube in place of an 

 opening directly through the vault. 



Generic Diagnosis. — General form of the body pyramidal, wider 

 than high; symmetry decidedly bilateral; plates without surface 

 ornamentation. The form of the apical side varies from a shallow 

 basin to an inverted cup, and hence from convex to deeply con- 

 cave ; the concavity sometimes involving the third primar}' and 

 even partly the secondar}^ radials. Dome surpassing the calyx in 

 height, composed of large nodose or tuberculous plates, which are 

 surrounded by smaller scarcely convex pieces. 



Basal disk in form of a hexagon with nearly straight sides, 

 composed of three equal plates, ver^^ small, frequently hidden 

 from view by the column, spread out horizontally, and forming a 

 small concavit3^ Primary radials 3X5; the first comparatively 

 small, hexagonal, the upper lateral sides shorter than the other 

 sides ; second radials quadrangular or nearly so, smaller than the 

 first, transversely arranged ; third pentagonal, wider than high, 

 larger than either of the others. The latter support upon each of 

 their upper sloping faces a wide but short secondary radial, which 

 is succeeded by still shorter plates which gradually interlock and 

 become regular arm plates. All plates above th3 third radials 

 project at nearh'' right angles to the vertical axis, their faces 

 directed laterally. This gives to the a'pical side, when viewed 

 from the column, a pentalobate outline, and the latter plates appear 

 as parts of the free rays. The plates, however, are wedge-shaped, 

 knife-like toward the inner side, and the ambulacral passages 

 within the body communicate directly with the arm furrows. In 

 species with tertiary radials, and consequently a larger number of 

 arms, the last bifurcation takes place upon the first secondary 

 radials, but generally only upon one side and in the posterior 

 rays. There seems to be one or two undescribed species in which 

 the postero-lateral rays have normally four arms. We have in our 

 possession a specimen from Canton, Ind., in which also the antero- 

 lateral rays have an additional arm. 



Arms robust, long, simple, gradually tapering and terminating 

 in a sharp point. They are constructed of two rows of pieces, which 

 are alternatel}^ arranged, very wide, exceedingly short and linear. 

 Arm furrows wide but shallow ; pinnules slender, thread-like, com- 

 posed of cylindrical joints covering the arm furrows like a roof. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 285 



Interradials three, elongate ; the first generallj^ the largest 

 phite of the calyx, much narrower than wide, frequently extend- 

 ing in length to the secondary radials, Tlie two plates in the 

 second series are often as long as the first, but rarely' of more than 

 half the width, and hence exceedingly narrow; they rest mainly 

 on the outer edges of the secondary'- radials, and curving upward 

 rise to the level of the top of the arm bases. 



First anal plate higher than the first radials, sustaining upon its 

 upper truncate edge a large plate, and on its lateral oblique sides 

 l^artially supporting two plates which extend upwards, adjoining 

 the secondary radials ; these in turn are followed by a large number 

 of small plates, which are more properly ranked as vault pieces. 



Dome high, more or less p3^ramidal, somewhat inflated toward 

 the posterior side. Apical dome plates very large and prominent, 

 and with rare exceptions tuberculiform. The central piece is 

 the largest plate of the entire body; the six proximal plates 

 somewhat smaller, frequently separated from the central piece 

 by a circlet of small irregular plates, and in old specimens and 

 ver}' large species, occasionallj^ isolated laterally. First radial 

 dome plates very large, the two of the second order small. In 

 raj's with three arms, one platp of the latter is large and suc- 

 ceeded by two small ones in a third range. Posterior side of the 

 dome composed of small plates, protruding in a rounded ridge with 

 a depression on either side ; anal aperture at the upper part of 

 the vault, directed laterall}^ 



Column round, consisting of joints with rounded margins and 

 intermediate thinner joints. 



Geological Position, etc — Agaricocrinus is a strictly Subcar- 

 boniferous genus, and is only found in America. It first appears 

 in the Waverlj^ group, attains its maximum in the Upper Bur- 

 lington, and becomes extinct at the end of the Keokuk period, 

 where it attains enormous dimensions. 



We arrange under it the following species : — 



1855. Agaricocrinus americanus Roemer (Amphoracr. americanus). Lethaea. 

 Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 250, PL 4^, figs. 15, a, b; Shumard, 1866, Agaricocr. 

 americanus, Cat. Pal. Foss. N. Amer., pt. i, p. 351; Wachsm. and Spr., 

 1878, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 239. 

 This species is very variable, and has a great vertical range, as well as a wide 

 geographical distribution, being found from the upper portion of the Upper 

 Burlington to the middle part of the Keokuk limestone, and it occurs in 

 rocks of that age in Iowa, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Kentucky and 

 Tennessee. 




286 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



%». Agaricocr. tuberosus Troost, 1850 (catalogue name); Hall, 1858, (Jcol. 



Rep. Iowa, i, j)t. ii, j). 617. 

 S>/ii. Agaricocr. bullatus Hall. 1858, fieol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 502, PL 9, 



figs. 11, a, b, e. 

 Si/ii. Agaricocr. (Amphoracr.) excavatus Ilall. Desc. New Spec. Crin., p. 3 ; 



also Bost. Joiirn. Nat. Hist., p. 282. 

 S^n. Agaricocr. nodosus Meek and Worthcn. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 167 ; also Geol. Rep. Illinois, vol. v, p. 387, PI. 10, fig. 7. 

 *1S58. Agaricocr. brevis Hall (Actinocr. brevis). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 667, 



PI. 10, figs. 3, a, b. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Sijn. Actinocr. corniculus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, 1, pt. ii, p. 566, PI. 10, figs. 



1, a, b, c. 

 *1860. Agaricocr. convexus Hall (Agaricocr. pentagonus (var.) convexus). Supp. 



Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 58. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 This form differs from A. pentagonus considerably, and proves to be a good 



species. 

 *1864. Agaricocr. oris Hall (Actinocr. eris). 17th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. 



Hist., p. 53; also Geol. Rep. Ohio Paleont., ii, p. 164, PI. 11, figs. 9, 10. 



Waverly gr. Richfield, Ohio. A variety of Agaricocr. helice. 

 *1861. Agaricocr. fiscellus Hall. (Actinocr. fiscellus). Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 



2 ; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 272. Lower Burlington limest. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 Possibly a mere variety of A. brevis, having an additional arm in the postero- 

 lateral rays. 



1860. Agaricocr. geometricus Hall. Suppl. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 56. Upper Bur- 



lington limest. Quincy, 111. 



1861. Agaricocr. gracilis Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 135. 



Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1S64. Agaricocr. helice Hall (Actinocr. helice). 17th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. 



Hist., p. 53; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, Paleont., ii, p. 163, PI. 11, figs. 5-8. 



Waverly gr. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1861. Agaricocr. inflatus Hall (Agaricocr. — Amphoracr. — inflatus, not Amphoracr. 



inflatus Hall). Descr. New Pal. Crin., p. 4; also Bost. Journ. Nat Hist., 



p. 284. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Agaricocr. ornotrema Hall (Agaricocr. — Amphoracr. — ornotrema). Desc. 



New Spec. Crin., p. 3. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n. Agaricocr. — Amphoracr. — bellatrema Hall. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., 



1861, p. 281. 



1860. Agaricocr. pentagonus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 57. Upper Burling- 



ton limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. Agaricocr. planoconvexus Hall (Agaricocr. — Amphoracr. — planoconvexus). 



Desc. New Spec. Pal. Crin., p. 3; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 280. Lower 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 ■•■■1858. Agaricocr. pyramidatus Hall (Actinocr. pyramidatus). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, 



pt. ii, p. 665. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Agaricocr, (Amphoracr.) corrugatus Hall. 1861, Desc. New Spec. Pal. 



Crin., p. 4; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 283. (Hall described here a more 



mature specimen). 

 1881. Agaricocr. Springeri White. Indiana Rep. for 1881 (now in press). Keokuk 



limestone. Crawfordsville, Ind. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 287 



185S. Agaricocr. stellatus Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. oB-t. Upper Burling- 

 ton limest. — Burlington, Iowa. 



1850. Agaricocr. Whitfieldi Troost. List. Crin. Tenn. ; Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, 

 pt. ii, p. 621; Supp. Iowa, Rep. I860, PL .3, fig. 5 ; Meek and AVorthen, Geol. 

 Rep. 111., vol. V, p. 499, PI. 12, fig. 1, and PI. 15, fig. 8. Keokuk limest. 

 Green Co., 111. 



1858. Agaricocr. Wortheni Hall. Gtol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 619, PJ. 14, fig. 1; 

 Wachsm. and Spr., 1878, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 240. Upper por- 

 tions of Keokuk limest. Iowa, Illinois and Missouri. 



Subgenus ALLOPROSALLOCRINUS Lyon and Cass. 



1860. Lyon and Casseday. Am. Acad. Arts and Sci., vol. v, p. 29. 

 1866. Shumard. Cat. Pal. Foss, N. Amer., pt. i. p. 353. 

 1873, Meek and Worth, (in part). Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v, p. 368, 

 1879. Zittel. Handbuch der Palaiontologie, i, p. 370. (Not Meek and 

 Worth., 1865, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 164). 

 Syn. Conocrinus Troost, 1850. List of Crin. Tenn. (not defined), 



L^^on and Casseda}" in defining the genus Alloprosallocrinus 

 placed under it two species : their type A. conicus and A. dejjressus^ 

 the latter probably an Agaricocrinus. With this genus Allopro- 

 sallocrinus has close affinities ; it differs, however, in having an 

 almost central anal tube and not a lateral opening through the 

 vault. The tube which extends from an elevated tuberculous dome, 

 gives to A. conicus a superficial resemblance to some of the later 

 forms of Batocrinus, and this induced Meek and Worthen to place 

 Lj^on's genus a mere subgenus under the other. 



Meek and Worthen added a new species, but we doubt from 

 their description of A. euconus, if they correctl}' identified Lj'on's 

 typical form, or the}- would have found the two species to be, super- 

 ficiall}' at least, veiy distinct. The foi'm of the plates in the calyx, 

 and particularly- of those near the arm regions, is in Meek and 

 Worthen's species like in Batocrinus, hut in A. conicus almost 

 identical with Agaricocrinus. We refer the former to Batocrinus, 

 and place Alloprosallocrinus subgenericallj' under Agaricocrinus. 

 Lyon and Cassedaj' describe the primarj' radials as being com- 

 posed of only 2X5 pieces. This is sometimes abnormall}- the 

 case, but there are always as a rule three plates in each ray, of 

 which the second are exceedingly short, linear and easil}- over- 

 looked. 



Amended Diagnosis. — General form turbinate ; calj'^x truncate, 

 slightl}' convex. Basals and primarj^ radials like those of 

 Agaricocrinus .^^ with 2 X 10 narrow secondary radials succeeding 




288 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



them ; the iiitermdial and anal plates also similar in their form 

 and arrangement ; bnt the first interradial and the second series 

 of anal plates extend to the top of the tertiary radials, and support 

 directly the vault pieces. 



Dome elevated, conical, extended into a large, almost central 

 anal tube ; vault pieces more or less nodose, the apical plates 

 somewhat larger, hut not so distinct as in Agaricocrinus^ and 

 pushed more towards the anterior side. Length of anal tube 

 unknown. 



Arms large, simple so far as known ; two arms from each ray, 

 with sometimes three on one or both posterior raj^s. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The only known species occurs in the 

 Warsaw limestone. 



I860. Alloprosallocrinus conicus Lyon and Cass. (type). Proc. Am. Acad. Arts 

 and Sci., vol. v, p. 29. Shumard, 1866, AUoprosallocr. (subg. of Actinocr.) 

 conicus, Cat. Pal. Foss., pt. 1, p. 352. Warsaw limest. Hardin and Allen 

 Cos., Ky. 



c. Melocrinites. 

 7. MARIACRINUS Hall. 

 (Revised Iby Wachsm. and Spr.) 

 1859. Hall. Paleont. New York, vol. iii, p. 104. 



Mariac7nnus in its original form, with M. nobilissimus, M. pauci- 

 dactylus and M. p/achidactylus Hall as types, were shown by 

 Schultze, Mon. Echin. Eifel. Kalk., p. 61, to be identical with 

 Melocrinus Goldfuss. This is undoubtedly correct with regard 

 to those species, but Hall described two other species, M. plumosus 

 and M. ramosus, which in their arm-structure differ so essentially 

 from the former, that we think it proper to separate them and 

 reconstruct the genus Mariacrinus with M. plumosus as the type. 

 To these two species we add Melocrinus angustatus Angl., and 

 Glyptocrinus Carleyi Hall, which latter we find to have four 

 basal plates instead of five, and no underbasals. 



The genus Mariacrinus^ as we propose to define it, includes 

 only species in which the two main divisions of the ray are longi- 

 tudinally separated, forming two free and equal parts, contrary to 

 Melocrinus^ in which the main branches are laterally connected. 

 Hall already noticed this peculiarity in the arm-structure or 

 Melocrinus plumosus, and he very correctly homologized the two 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PinLADELPHIA. 289 



inner divisions of the ray, which give off exclusively the branches, 

 with the double-jointed brachial extensions in the ray of M. pachi- 

 dactyhis, and the outer arms of the former with the branchlets of 

 the latter. 



Zittel takes Mariacrinus Hall to be a synonym of Ctenocrinus 

 Bronn, which we refer to Melocrinus, following Schultze. Hall's 

 M. mac7^opetaIus will be arranged under Gorymbocrinus Augelin, 

 and among the Calyptocrinidte. Its arms are yet unknown, but 

 the arrangement of its plates agrees perfectl}' with that genus. 

 Mariacrinus stoloniferus Hall is described only from fragmentary 

 columns. 



Amended Diagnosis.— Yorm of calyx obconical ; general aspect 

 and surface ornamentation similar to Glyptocrinus ; radiating 

 strife passing from plate to plate ; radials all along their median 

 line elevated into high rounded ridges, somewhat resembling 

 recumbent arms ; interradial and interaxillar3" arese large and 

 depressed. 



Basals four, small, almost of equal size, the one facing the anal 

 area largest. Primary" radials 3 X 5, nearl}- as wide as high, 

 decreasing in size upwards ; the first set joining laterally ; the 

 second enclosing the first anal and first interradial plates ; the 

 third supporting 3X10 seeondar}' radials, which are generally of 

 uniform size and vertically separated by six or more interaxillary 

 plates. The secondarj^ radials are followed hy several tertiary 

 radials, which vary in number with the age of the individual — 

 mature specimens having five and even more— all placed in a 

 direct line with the arras and somewhat resembling arm plates. 



Arras four to each ray, the inner ones branching, but rarely 

 more than once or twice, the outer arms remaining simple through- 

 out, and taking a somewhat lateral course. The inner arms are 

 placed close together, almost parallel with each other, their 

 branches given off to the outer sides of the ra\'. Both inner and 

 outer arms are composed of quadrangular single joints, with 

 straight, sometimes slightl}^ oblique sutures ; the arm-bearing 

 joints subpentagonal ; main arms and branches fringed with 

 pinnules. 



Interradial areae large, composed of a great number of plates ; 

 the first wedged in between the upper sloping sides of two first 

 radials and two second radials ; second interradial series con- 

 sisting of two plates ; each succeeding series of two or three. 



20 




290 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Anal area wider ; the first plate in line with the first interra- 

 dials, perhaps a little larger, succeeded by three plates in the 

 second, and a like number in all superior series. 



Yault only known in M. Garleyi, where it is low, scarcel}' 

 rising beyond tlie horizon of the calyx, 



Interradial regions depressed and excavated between the raj'S, 

 thereb}' giving to the form a pentalobate outline. 



Radial portions prominent, toward the margin of each arm dis- 

 tinctly elcA'ated and formed into a rounded ridge. 



Arm openings arranged along the margin of the vault, directed 

 upwards. The vault is composed of very minute, irregular pieces 

 without definite arrangement, even the apical dome plates are 

 obscure. 



Anal aperture excentric, opening directly through the vault. 



Form of column unknown ; central canal subpentagonal and 

 of more than medium size. 



Geological Position, etc. — Mariacrinus is confined to the Upper 

 Silurian, and occurs in Europe and America. 



We recognize the following species . — 



*1S7S. Mariacrinus angustatus Angclln. (Melocr, angustatus.) Iconogr. Crin. 



Suec, p. 20, P). 2fi, fig. 22. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *18G3. Mariacr. Carleyi Hall. (Glyptocr. Carleyi.) Trans. Albany Inst., iv, p. 



203,- also 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 1875, PI. 14, figs. 7-10. 



Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 

 *1863. Hariacr. ob.COnicus Hall. (Melocr. obconicus.) Trans. Albany Inst., p. 



206.; also 28th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 1875, PI. 14, figs. 11-14. 



Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind. 

 1859. Mariacr. plumosus Hall. (Type of the genu!=.) Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 110 



PI. 3, figs. 6-11. Lower Helderberg gr. Herkimer Co., N. Y. 

 1859. Mariacr, ramosus Hall. Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 147, PI. 2, figs. 2, 3. Lower 



Helderberg gr. Herkimer Co., N. Y. 



8. TECHNOCRINUS Hall. 



1859. Hall. Paleont. New York, iii, p. 139. 

 1879. Zittel. Uandb. der. Palaeontologie, i,. p. 372. 



According to Hall, Technocrinus differs from 3Iariacrinus 

 only in the arm structure, he therefore at first arranged it sub- 

 generically under that genus. A careful comparison of Techno- 

 crinus, not only with that section of Hall's J/armcWnMs which we 

 have referred to Melocrimis, but also with Mai^iaciHuus plumosus 

 the present type, has convinced us that Technocrinus difters in 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHrLADELPHIA. 291 



several additional points, and suftlciently, so to make it an inde- 

 pendent genus. 



Technocrinus differs from Mariacrinus, as now amended, in 

 having 1 X 10 secondary radials, instead of 3-4 X 10, and these 

 connected laterally without the, interposition of interaxillaries ; 

 in having the arms given off in an almost continuous ring around 

 the body, and not in clusters ; in the straight upward direction of 

 all the arms, contrary to 3Iariacrinus in which the outer arms are 

 given off obliquely, and only the inner ones run parallel with each 

 other ; in that its arms are strong, simple, composed of single 

 joints, instead of being slender, branching and double jointed. It 

 further differs from Melocrinus in giving off the arms straight 

 and directly from the body, instead of obliquely from the free rays ; 

 in the absence of interaxillaries, and in other minor characters. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Form of calyx similar to Melocrinus. 

 Symmetry, except in the basal portions, perfectly pentahedral. 



Basals four, one of them larger and placed longitudinally in 

 line with the primary radials of one of the lateral rays. Primary 

 radials 3X5; the first two hexagonal ; the third pentagonal and 

 supporting 1X10 large secondary radials, which are all axillarj^, 

 each supporting 2X2 tertiary radials, of which the upper part 

 of the second row is laterally disconnected and free. They are 

 succeeded by several wedge-form plates, which gradually interlock, 

 and which are followed, rather abruptly, by two series of narrow, . 

 alternately arranged arm plates. The arms are long, simple, 

 straight, placed around the body in a continuous ring, and at 

 almost equal distances from each other. Pinnules apparently 

 thin, thread-like, their sides abutting. 



Interradials three to four ; the first resting against the oblique 

 upper sides of the first radials, and between the second. Anal 

 area, so far as known, not distinct from the other interradial 

 ones. Construction of the vault unknown. Column round. 



Geological Position^ etc — Technocrinus has been found only in, 

 the Oriskany Sandstone of Maryland. 



*1859. Technocrinus Andrews! Hall. (Type of the genus.) (Mariacr. — Technocr 



—Andrews!.) Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 141, PI. 86, figs. 1-4. Oriskany 



Sandstone. Cumberland, Md. 

 *1859. Technocr. spinulosus Hall. (Mar!aor. — Technocr. — spinulosus.) Paleont.. 



N. York, iii, p. 140, PI. 85, figs. 1-18. Oriskany Sandstone. Cumberland, Md. . 



(Mariacr. — Technocr. sculptus and T. striatus Hall, are known from the 



basals only). 




292 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881, 



9. MELOCRINUS Goldfuss. 



182G. Goldfuss. Petrefacta GermanijB, i, p. 197. 



1835, Agassiz. Mem. d. 1. Soc. des Sci. Natur, de Neuchatel, 1, p. 196. 



1841. Miiller, Monatsb, Berl. Akademie, 1, p. 209. 



1850, D'Orbigny. Prodr, de Paleont., i, p. 103, 



1852. D'Orbigny. Course Element., ii, p, 140. 



1855. Roeraer. Lethsea Geogn. (Aiisg, 8), p. 250. 



1857, Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 325, 



1867. Schultze. Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk,, p. 61. 



1875, Hall, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Paleont., ii, p. 158. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Crin, Suae, p. 19. 



1879, Zittel. Handbuch d. Palaeontologie, i, p. 371, 

 Syn. Otenocrintis Bronn, 1840, Jabrbuch, p. 54. 



Syn. Ctenocrinus Miiller, 1855. Verhandl, Naturli, Verein, xii, 

 p. 16, 



Syn. Castanocrimcs Roemer, 1855, Lethsea Geogn., ii, p. 252, 



Syn, Mariacrinus Hall (in part), 1857, Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 104, 



Syn. Cytocrinus Roeraer, 1860. Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 46. 



Syn. Clonocrinus Oehlert, 1879 (not Quenstedt), Bull, Soc. Geol. 

 de France (ser. 3), vol. vii. 



Syn. Tuvbinocrinites Troost. List. Crin. Tenn,, 1850 (not defined). 



Syn. Astrocrinites Conrad. Cat. Geol. Rep, of 1840 41 (not Cum- 

 berland, 1S26 ; nor Austin, 1843 ; nor Asterocrimis Lyon, 18o'7 ; 

 nor Mlinster, 1839). 



The genus Melocrinus holds the same relation to Ilariacrinus 

 as Steganocrinus to Actinocrinus^ and as Eucladocrinus to Platy- 

 crinus. In all of them the construction of the body remains 

 almost unchanged, while a remarkable modification takes place in 

 the brachial appendages, which are extended into free rays with 

 an indefinite number of radials, which give off the arms laterall3% 



This character separates the genera of the three groups A'ery 

 distinctly and uniforml3^ 



Several attempts have been made to establish sub-divisions for 

 Melocrinus. Roemer, in 1865, proposed the name Castanocrinus 

 for species with a central or subcentral anal opening, retaining 

 Melocrinus with M. hieroglyphicus Goldf. for species with a 

 lateral opening. A critical comparison of all the species leads us 

 to doubt whether that division can be cari'ied out practicall}'. 

 We agree with Shultze, Mon,, p. 63, that the proboscis — anal tube 

 — is never central, and in this genus in no case actuall}'^ lateral ; 

 but that its direction is more or less excentric in all species. 

 Neitl)er can the presence or absence of interaxillary plates, unless 

 accompanied by other distinctive characters, be considered for a 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 293 



moment as sufficient for generic separation, as liad been proposed 

 in the case of Ctenocrinus Bronn,' those plates are mere acces- 

 sory pieces, and may be present or absent in the same species. 



Turhinocrinites Troost was proposed in MS. (according to 

 Hall) for a species which was said to have the first anal plate in 

 line with the first radials, but Troost's typical species Melocr. 

 Verneuili, which was subsequently defined by Hall, seems not to 

 have possessed such a plate, as Hall himself mentions expressly 

 that the anal area is but slightl}' distinct from the regular inter- 

 radial ones. 



Cytocrinus Roemer was described b^ its author with probably 

 three (?) basal plates — the exact number had not been ascertained. 

 A good specimen in our collection from Louisville, Kj'., which in 

 every respect agrees with G. Isevis Roemer, shows that it has four 

 basals, and that the genus is identical with Melocrirma. Roemer 

 himself gave for locality both Western Tennessee and Louisville. 



Phillipsocrinus McCoy, which was described with four basals, 

 has been frequently connected with Melocrinus. The generic 

 description was made from a single specimen, and this was evi- 

 dently abnormal, as indicated by having two additional plates in 

 line with the first radials (seven in all), and we think it probable 

 that the abnormal seventh plate in this case rendered the presence 

 of the fourth basal plate necessary. We take it to be an abnormal 

 specimen of Actinocrinus, and this is far more consistent with the 

 given geological position. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body obconical, subglobose or pear- 

 shaped, with five free rays extended upward and giving oflT arms 

 laterally. Cah'^x highly ornamented with radiating ridges, some- 



^ The genus Ctenocrinus was at first incorrectly defined. It was des- 

 cribed by Bronn iJalirbuch, 1840, p. 542) witli three basal plates, which 

 was confirmed by Roemer ( Leth. Geogn., 1855, p. 251 ), and subsequently 

 de Koninck considered the genus identical with Pradocrinus de Verneuil 

 (Criu. du terr. Carb. Belg., p. 147). Job. Midler (Verhandl. naturh. 

 Verein, 1855), admits more than three basals, i^robably five, and in 1857 

 (Neue Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 255), he mentions positively five basals, and 

 compares Ctenocrinus with Glyptocrinus Hall, asserting that it had also 

 parabasalia. Schultze afterwards in his Monograph, p. 63, proved fi-om 

 more perfect specimens that Ctenocrinus typus has only four basals and no 

 underbasals, which is evidently correct. One of us had an opportunity 

 several years ago to study the Schultze collection in the Museum of Com- 

 parative Zoology of Cambridge, which contains specimens showing only 

 four basals like Melocrinus. 




'20i PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADE>rY OF [1881. 



times with little nodules, in some species with all the plates 

 strongly nodose or almost spiniferous ; symmetry slightly bi- 

 lateral. 



Basals four, three of them equal and pentagonal, the fourth 

 larger and hexagonal, the latter directed to the left antero-lateral 

 ray, not posteriorly. 



Radials 3X5; the five first hexagonal and joining laterally; 

 the plates of the second seiies hexagonal, the first interradial and 

 anal plate interposed between them ; the third pentagonal and 

 bifurcating. They support on their upper sloping sides two to 

 three secondary radials (2-3 X 10), with one or more — though 

 sometimes none — in the axil. The secondary radials are suc- 

 ceeded in a direct line bj' two rows of plates, which sometimes 

 interlock, but which more frequently are placed side by side. 

 The plates which represent higher orders of radials, are separated 

 by a deep vertical suture, and formed into a long brachial appen- 

 dage or free ray, which terminates in an arm. 



The free rays give off laterally, throughout their length at 

 certain intervals, from each third or fourth joint, or less often, 

 and from opposite plates (not alternately), small armlets, com- 

 posed of two rows of interlocking plates, with short pinnules on 

 alternate sides. The plates which compose the appendages are 

 wider than high, their upper and lower sides parallel, except the 

 arm-bearing pieces which are depressed pentagonal. The length 

 of the armlets difiers according to their position ; aU extend to 

 the same general height, and hence those nearer the body are 

 longer, the length decreasing proportionately upward. 



In young specimens, all arms are given oflf from the free raj^s ; 

 while in the adult, the lower portion of the proximal arm is 

 often enclosed within the calyx, and sometimes even separated from 

 the main trunk by small plates. 



There is onl}- one brachial appendage to each ray, and this, as 

 stated before, is composed of two rows of plates which rest upon 

 a bifurcating plate. This construction leaves no doubt that the 

 two rows, which are separated hya deep longitudinal suture, often 

 by interaxillary pjlates and small intermediate pieces scattered 

 between them, represent two distinct brachial appendages, wliich 

 became anchylosed throughout their length, contrary to Maria- 

 crinus, in which under similar conditions, the equivalent parts 

 remained detached. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHLLADELPHIA. 295 



Aual plates numerous. The first intei'radial placed upon the 

 upper sloping sides of the first radials and between the second ; 

 the second series composed of two plates, and there are three in 

 each succeeding series. 



The posterior or anal side is but slightl}' distinct from the other 

 four, but it has generally' three plates in the second, and three or 

 four in each succeeding series. 



Vault very variable, highly elevated to low hemispherical ; the 

 plates comparativelv large and more or less nodose, but sometimes 

 small and scarcely convex ; the interradial regions depressed. 

 Anal aperture subcentral or almost lateral, and extended generally 

 — if not always — into a tube, whose length is unknown. 



Apical dome-plates conspicuous, particularly in species with an 

 excentric amis. 



Column round, composed alternately of longer and shorter 

 joints ; central canal small, round, or obtusely pentagonal. 



Geological Position, etc. — Melocrinus ranges from the Upper 

 Silurian to near the close of the Devonian, and is represented 

 both in America and Europe. 



We place here the following species : — 



^1875. Melocrinus Bainbridgensis Hall (Melocr. — Centrocr. — Bainbridgensis.) 



Gt'i)l. Reji. Ohio Puleon. ii, p. 15S, PI. 13, tigs. 2, 3, above Hurou Shales, 



Devonian. Ross Co., Ohio. 

 *1879. Melocr. Bigsbyi Oehlert. (Clonocr. Bigsbyi.) Bull. Soe. de France (Ser. 



3) vol. vii, p. 4, PI. 2, figs. 2-4. Devonian. St. Germain, France. 

 I?) 1372. Helocr. breviradiatus Hall and Whitfield. Hamilton gr. (We have not 



seen the description.) 

 1S38. Melocr. decadactylus Goldfuss. (Actinocr. decadactylus. Xova Act. Ac. 



Leop. xis, p. 343, PI. 31, fig. 5 ; F. Roemer, Ctenocr. decadactylus, 



Rhein. Uebergangsgeb. p. 61. Grauwacke, near Coblentz, Germ. 

 (Ctenocr. decadactylus Ad. Roemer 1850, Hartzgebirge, p. 2, PI. 1, fig. 1. 



From the Devonian of the Hartz. This is probably different from the 



Coblentz specimens. 

 1S33. Melocr. gibbosus Goldf. Petref. German, i. p. 211, PI. 64, figs. 2: Austin, 1842, 



Ann. and Mag. Xat. Hist, s, p. 109; Schultze, 1867, Mon. Eehin. Kifel 



Kalk, p. 64, Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 

 .%'!. Melocr. Isevis Goldf. (not F. Roemerj. Petref. German.,!, p. 197, PI. 60, fig. 2. 

 (?) 1878. Melocr. grannula*^us Angelin. Icon. Grin. Suec, p. 20, PI. 26, figs. 21 and 



21 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. (This is certainly not Melocrinvt 



and we doubt that it is has four basals ; it differs materially in the arrange- 

 ment of the anal plates.) 

 1826. Melocr. hieroglyphicus Goldf. Type of the genus. Petref. German, i, p. 



197, PI. 60, figs. 1 A-E : also Xova Act. Ac Leop., xix, p.339 ; also Lethaea. 



Geogn., i and ii, p. 63 : Roemer, 1855, Lettaea Geogn., PI. 4, figs. 10 a, b, c. 



Rhein, Uebergangsgebirge. Devon. Belgium and Germany. 




296 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



*1860, Melocr. laevis Roemer (not (}<)ldf.) — Cytocrinua laevis. Silur. Fauna, West 

 Teun., i>. 5fi, PI. iv, figs. 2 a, b. Ni;ii^ari\ gr. We.<t. Tennessee. 



*1859. Melocr. nobilissimus Uall. (Mariacr. nobilissimus) Paloont. N. York, iii, 

 p. 105, PI 2, ligs. 1-4, and PI. 2 A, fig. 1. Pentamerus limcst. Litchfield, 

 Herkimer Co., N. Y. 



1861. Melocr. nodosus Hall. Geol. Surv. Wis. (Rep. of Progress), p. 19. Tevonian. 



Iowa City. 

 1865. Melocr. obpyramidalis Winchell and Marcy. (Actinocr. obpyramidalis) 



Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., vol. i, p. 87, PI. 2, fig. 4. Niagara gr. Near 



Chicago, 111. Miller, 1881, Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. (July No.). 

 This species was described from an imperfect cast. Hall takes it to be a 



synonym of Meloor. Verneuili Troost. 

 *1841. Melocr. pachydactylus Conrad. (Astrocrinites pachydactylus) Ann. Rep. 



Paleont. N. York, p. 34 ; Mather, 1843, Geol. Rep. N.York, p. 246; Hall, 



1859, Mariacr. pachydactylus, Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 107, PI. 3, figs. 



1-4 A. Lower Ilelderberg gr. Schoharie, N. Y. 

 Si/)i. Actinocr. polydactylus (1837) Bonny (not Miller). (Schenectady 



Reflector.) 

 *1859. Melocr. paucidactylus Hall. Paleont. N. York, iii, p. 109, PI. 3, fig. 5. 



Lower Ilelderberg gr. Herkimer Co., N. York. 

 1860. (?) Melocr. Pratteni McChesney. (Forbesiocr. Pratteni) Desc. New. Pal. 



Foss., p. 29 ; 1867, Melocr. Pratteni Chicago, Acad. Sci., p. 22, PI. 5, fig. 4. 



(Geological position and locality unknown, and described from imperfect 



specimen?.) 

 1838. Melocr. pyramidalis Goldfuss. Nova Acta Ac Leop., xix, i, p. 339, PI. 31, fig. 



1 ; D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr., i, p. 103 ; Schultze, 1867, Mon. Echin. Eifel 



Kalk, p. 66, PI. 4, fig. 5. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 

 S)jn. Melocr. fornicatus Goldfuss. Ibid., p. 340, PI. 31, fig. 2. 

 (?) 1878. Melocr. rigidus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20, PI. 21, fig. 3. Upper 



Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 (This is an entirely diflferent form, and probably belongs to a dift'erent family.) 

 1878. Melocr. spectabilis Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20, PI. 21, figs. 1-2. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



1862. Melocr. stellaris Roemer. (Ctenocr. stellaris) Yerhandl. Naturh. Verein. f. 



Rheinl., ix, p. 283, PI. 2, figs. 2 a, b, c ; also Schultze, 1867, Mon. Echin. 



Eifel Kalk, p. 65, PI. 4, fig. 3. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 

 1840. Melocr. typus Bronn. (Ctenocr. typus) Jahrb. f. Mineralogie, p. 542, PI. 8 B ; 



also D'Orbigny, 1860, Prodr., i, p. 103, and F. Roemer, 1844, Rhein. Ueber- 



gangsgeb., p. 60, PI. 1, fig. 1. Grauwacke, near Coblentz, Germ. Probably 



identical with Melocr. decadactylus Goldf. 

 1864. (?) Melocr. Verneuili Troost. (Actinocr. Verneuili) List of Crin. Tenn., 



I860; 1868, Hall, 20th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 327, PI. 10, fig. 



5 (Advance Sheets, 1864). Niagara gr. Decatur Co., Tenn., and Racine, 



Wis. 

 This species is only known from natural casts, hence an accurate comparison is 



impossible, but from all appearances it is identical with Melocr. (Cytocr.) 



laevis Roemer. 

 1838. Melocr. verrucosus Goldf. Nova Acta Ac Leop. xix, i, PI. 31, fig. 3 ; also 



Schultze, 1867, Mon. Echin. Eifel Kalk, p. 65, PI. 4, fig. 4. Devonian. Eifel, 



Geim. 




]881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 297 



1878. Melocr. Volborthi Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 20, PI. 7, figs. 8-11, and 

 PI. 23, figs. 30-32. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 (Angelin figures under this name at least two difierent species, his PI. 18, fig. 

 16, represents even another genus ; the latter possibly goes together with the 

 specimen on PI. 26, fig. 26, referred to Patelliocr. fulminatns.) 



10. SCYPHOCKINUS Zenker. 



1833. Zenker. Beitr. Naturgesch . d. Urwald., p. 36. 



1839. Miinster. Beitr. z. Petrefactenk ., iii, p. 112. 



1850. Quenstedt. Handbuch der Petrefactenk,, p. 621. 



1855. F. Roemer. Letbaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 255. 



1878. Zittel. Haudbucb der Palaeontologie, i, p. 372. 



(Not ScypTiocrinus Hall, 1847. Paleont. N. York, i, p. 85.) 

 (Not Scyphocrinus Pictet, 1857. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 320.) 



The genus under consideration is not to be confounded with 

 Scyphocrinus Hall, 1847, which is an entirely different thing, and 

 as we believe, a synon^-ni of Schizocrinus Hall. Scyp/iocrinus 

 Zenker, is imperfectly known, but Zittel is probably correct in 

 grouping it with Melocrinus, although it has in the form of its 

 radials, and in the large number of interiadial plates, close 

 affinities with Feriechocrinus , from which it differs in the 

 construction of the anal area. Pictet's identification of Scypho- 

 crinus is evidently not correct ; he describes it with four under 

 basals and five basals, arranged like in Cyathocrinus^ and 

 otherwise resembling Actinocrinus. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx very large, composed of numerous 

 thin plates, which are beautifullj^ sculptured ; posterior side some- 

 what wider, and hence the general symmetry slightly bilateral. 



Basals, according to Roemer and others-, five. Zittel gives their 

 number at four. Primary radials 3X5, nearly of equal size and 

 varying but little in form, all higher than wide ; the two lower 

 hexagonal ; the third heptagonal and supporting two rows of 

 secondary radials, each consisting of from four to five plates, 

 longitudinall}' arranged and separated by interaxillary pieces. 

 The radials support ten arm-trunks, which give off' numerous' 

 branches, the latter closely placed together, the lower ones crossing 

 each other and forming in the interradial and interaxillary spaces 

 an unbroken pavement ; higher up, however, the arms become free 

 and diverge, giving off long slender branches, which ixi turn 

 throw off pinnule-like armlets (Zittel), but probably true pin- 

 nules. The main trunks and branches consist of short single 

 joints with deep ventral furrows, their articulating faces provided 

 with radiating strife. 




298 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Interradial series constructed of numerous plates, the first 

 resting upon the posterior lateral sides of the first radials, and 

 between the second radials. There are two interradials in the 

 second series, three in the third, and others above. The posterior 

 side differs in having three plates in the second, and four to five 

 in the succeeding series. Construction of vault, and form and 

 position of the anus, unknown. 



Column long, round, slender, composed of short joints; central 

 perforation round and unusually large. 



Geological Position, etc. — The only known species occurs in the 

 Upper Silurian of Bohemia. 



1833. Scyphocrinus elegans Zenker. Beitr. Naturgoscb. Urw., p. 26, PI. 4, figs. 

 A-F; Munster, 1839, Beitr. zur Petrefactenk., p. 112, PI. 9, fig. 8; Quen- 

 stedt, 1850, Handli. d. Petref. p. 621, PI. f5, figs. 1-3; F. Roemer, 1S55, 

 Lethaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3). p. 255, PI. 4, figs. 6 a. b: Zitfel, 1879, Ilandb. >\. 

 Palaeon*'. i, p. 372. Upper Silur. Karlstein, Bohemia. 



11. DOLATOCRINUS Lyon. 



1857. Lyon. Geol. Rep. Kentucky, iii, p. 482. 



Syn. Cacahocrinus Troost. List of Grin. Tenn., 1850. 

 Syn. Cacahocrinus HaU. 15th. Rep. N. York, St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 

 p. 137. 



The name Cacahocrinus was proposed by Troost in his cata- 

 logue, but the genus was not defined until 1862 by HalL Lyon's 

 Dolatocrinus, which is identical with Cacahocrinus, was described 

 in 1857 and hence has priority. Lj^on described the genus with 

 three basals, Hall with five, but we doubt if either of them ever 

 found the sutures. The basal pieces are so closely anchylosed, 

 that we give them simply as constituting a solidly anchylosed 

 disk. Dolatocrinus differs from most allied genera in the anal 

 area, which in its construction is not distinct from the regular 

 interradial fields, but in this respect it resembles Stereocrinus, 

 which we place subgenerically under it. 



Generic Diagonis — Body spheroidal, depressed at both poles ; 

 wider than high. Calyx forming a low spreading basin, of which 

 the basals, the first, and partly the second radials form the bottom 

 part ; symmetry regularly pentahedral, the anal area not distinct 

 from the other interradial series. 



Vault hemispherical, depressed in the interradial portions, the 

 radial zones elevated, giving to the summit, viewed from that side, 

 a pentalobate aspect. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 299 



Basals united by anchylosis, without A'isible suture lines, and 

 forming a pentagon ; small, often barely extending beyond the 

 circumference of the column ; the median part strongly concave 

 or the entire base funnel-shaped ; central perforation or passage 

 for the columnar canal ver}^ large, pentalobate. 



Radials 3X5; the first large, hexagonal ; the second quad- 

 rangular, generall}^ with convex sides, narrower than either second 

 or third, but much wider than high. The third pentagonal, and 

 supporting at each side two secondar}' radials, which give off two 

 arms to each ra^'. In the majority of species, however, there are 

 two pairs of tertiary radials above the second order, or four arms 

 to the ray. The secondarj^ radials, and the tertiar}^ ones if these 

 are present, are almost as large as the second and third primaries. 

 The arms, on becoming free, bifurcate two or three times, and it 

 appears that they were constructed sometimes of a single series of 

 cuneiform pieces alternately arranged, but more gene rail}' of two 

 series of interlocking plates. Pinnules long, slender jointed. 



Interradials three or more — their number greater in species 

 with four arms than in those with two arms to the ray — generally 

 arranged in three series. The first interradial plate very large, the 

 largest plate in the calj^x ; subcircular to subovoid ; resting 

 between the upper sides of the first radials, against the sides of the 

 second and third, and between the lower sloping sides of the first 

 secondary radials. The second interradial series is composed of 

 one or two plates, smaller than the first. The third series consists 

 of two or three much smaller plates, sometimes with a fourth series 

 above. There are generally a few interaxillar}" plates between the 

 secondary radials. 



Vault composed of rather large plates, ornamented with coarse 

 granules or small irregular nodes. The apical dome plates well 

 defined, the radial pieces slightly tuberculous, and the entire 

 radial portions elevated ; the interradial regions depressed. Anal 

 aperture subcentral, evidentl}^ extended into a slender tube. 



Column unknown, its form however was circular, and it had an 

 unusuallj"^ large, pentalobate central canal. 



Geological Position^ etc — In the Upper Helderberg and lower 

 beds of the Hamilton group, Devon., and only found in America. 



1862. Dolatocrinus glyptus Hall. (Cacabocr. glyptus). 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 140 ; Dolatocr. glyptus S. A. Miller, Cat. Pal. Foss., p. 72. 

 Hamilton gr. Genessee Co., N. Y. 




300 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



1862. Dolatocr. glyptus var. intermedins Hall. (Cacaboorinus). 15th Rep. N.York 



8t. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 141. Hamilton gr. Livingston Co., N. Y. 

 1857. Dolatocr. lacus Lyon. (Type of the genus). GeoL Rep. Ky., iii, p. 482, PI. 4, 



fi,i;s. 2 a, b, c. Encrinal limost. Beargrass quarries, Louisville, Ky. 

 1862. Dolatocr. lamellosus Hall. (Cacabocr. lamellosus). 15th Rep. N. York St. Cat. 



Nat. Hist., p. 141 ; DolUocr. lameUosus S. A. Miller, Cat. Pal. Foss, p. 72. 



Western N. Y. Upper HeMerbcrg gr. 

 1862. Dolatocr. liratus Hall. (Cacabocr. liratus). 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. 



llist., p. 1.39; Dolatocr. liratus S. A. Miller, Cat. Pal. Foss., p. 72. Western 



N. Y. Hamilton gr. 

 1862. Dolatocr. liratus var. multilira Hall. (Cacaboorinus). 15th Rep. N. York St. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. i;'>9. Hamilton gr. Western N. Y. 

 1869. Dolatocr. Marshi Lyon. Trans. Am. Philos. Sec, vol. 13, p. 461, PI. 27, 



figs, n, 1,2. Upper HelJerberg gr. Falls of the Ohio. 

 1862. Dolatocr. speoiosus Hall. (Cacabocr. speciosus). 15th Rep. N. Yoik St. Cab. 



Nat. Hist., p. 137; Dolatocr. speciosus S. A. Miller, Cat. Pal. Foss., p. 72. 



Upper Helderberg. Schoharie, N. Y. 

 1862. Dolatocr. Troosti Hall. (Cacabocr. Troosti). 15th Rop. N. York St. Cab. 



Nat. Hist., p. 138; Dolatocr. Troosti S. A. Miller. Cat. Pal. Foss., p. 72. 



Hamilton gr. Western N. Y. 



Subgenus STEREOCRINITS Barris. 

 1878. Proceed. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., vol. 11, p. 282. 



Stei'eocrinus in general form, mode of ornamentation, and in the 

 construction of tlie plates, resembles the simpler form of Dolato- 

 crinus. It differs from it in having two, instead of 3 X 5, primary 

 radials, and the basal plates, although closely anchylosed, dis- 

 tinctly divided into three pieces. 



Through the kindness of Rev. Dr. Barris, we examined a large 

 number of specimens from Davenport, and became satisfied that 

 the reduction in the number of radials is not accidental, but a 

 constant character, which extends to more than one species. 

 Other specimens have since been found by Dr. Barris in the Lake 

 Superior region, which confirm this opinion. The upper radials 

 in Stereocrinus are of the same size, and nearly of the same form, 

 as the second and third radials combined in Dolatocrinus, and 

 this suggests a modification from the two pieces in the one, to a 

 single plate in the other. It is very possible that in Dolatocrinus 

 the two pieces were united by syzygie,^ while in Stereocrinus 

 they became perfectly anchylosed. 



' In our general remarks upon the Actinocrlnldaj, we have suggested 

 that probably in genera, in which the second radial is qviadrangular and 

 transversely arranged like in Batocriims and Dolatocrimis, this plate i-epre- 

 sents a mere hypozygial joint, which with the axillary plate forms a syzygie. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 301 



This seems to us suflicient to separate the two forms, but in 

 other respects the relations with Dolatocrinus are so close, that 

 they justify only a subgeneric division, for which we propose the 

 following : — • 



Diagnosis. — Bod}' depressed ; calyx truncate up to the second 

 radials, the latter bending abruptl}^ and forming a low basin with 

 straight sides. Dome but sliglitly elevated, its interradial por- 

 tions depressed and deeply grooved toward the arm bases, giving 

 to the radial regions a certain prominence, and to the body, 

 viewed from the summit, a somewliat lobed appearance ; sym- 

 metry' strictl}' pentahedral. 



Basal disk small, scarcel}' projecting beyond the column, funnel- 

 shaped, composed of three closely anchylosed pieces. Primary 

 radials 2X5; the first hexagonal ; the second pentagonal, sup- 

 porting two radials of the second order, the latter supporting the 

 arms. So far as the specimens are preserved, there are only two 

 arm openings to each ray, these, however, are so large that they 

 may form the inner cavit}^ of free brachial appendages with 

 numerous arms. Arras entirely unknown. 



Interradials two, large, with several small plates above ; the 

 two former in series of one each ; the first the largest plate of 

 the body, heptagonal ; the second hexagonal, smaller than the 

 radial plates ; succeeding pieces placed within the depressions 

 between the arm bases ; anal side not distinct. 



Yault composed of a moderate number of medium-sized pieces ; 

 apical dome-plates easily recognized by their larger size. Anal 

 opening subcentral, extended into a tube. 



Column round ; central canal large, pentalobate. 



Geological Position, etc Upper Helderberg group of America. 



1878. Stereocrinus triangulatus Barris. Davenport A-.ad. Nat. Sei., p. 283, PI. 11, 



figs. 1, 2. Encrinal limest. Near Diiveiii>ort, Towa. 

 1878. Stereocr. triangulatus var. liratus Ban-is. Ibid. p. 284, PI. 11, firr. 3. 



Encrinal liu.est. Near Davenport, Iowa. 



cl. Pekiechocrinites. 



12. PERIECHOCEINTJS. Austin. 



1843. Austin. Ami. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109 (no definition). 



1843. Austin. Ibid., xi, p. 203. 



1848. Morris. Cat. Brit. Foss. (ed. lst\ p. 56. 



1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 323. 



1878. Angel. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 6. 




302 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1879. Zittel. Ilandb. der Palteontologie, i, p. 368. 



Syn. Actinocrinus Miller, 1821 (in part). Hist. Crinoidea, p. 116. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus Phillips, 1839. Murchis. Silur. Syst., p. 57. 

 Syn. Trochocrinites Portlock, 1848. Geol. of Londonderry, p. 345. 

 Syn. Pradocrimis De Verneuil, 1850. Bull. Soc. Geol. France (ser. 



ii), vol. vii, p. 184. 

 Syn. Geocrinus d'Orbigny, 1850. Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 46. 

 Syn. Saccoci'imis Troost, 1850. List. Grin. Tenn. 

 Syn. Saccocrinus Hall, 1852. Paleont. New York, ii, p. 205. 

 Syn. Pyxidocrinus Miiller (in part), 1857. Neue Eclun, Eifel Kalk, 



p. 253. 

 Syn. (?) Trochocrinites Pander, 1858. Helmerson's Geol. Bermerk. 



auf einer Reisein Schweden, etc., p. 20. 

 Syn. Saccocrinus Roenier, 1860. Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 42. 

 Syn. Actinocr. (Megistocrinus) Hall, 1861. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., 



p. 271. 

 Syn. Actinocr. {Pradocrinus) Meek and Worth., 1861. Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 133. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus Hall, 1863. Trans. Albany Inst., v, p. 196. 

 Syn. Megistocrinus Winchell and Marcy, 1865 (not Ow. and Shum.). 



Mem. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1, p. 87. 

 Syn. Saccocrinus Meek and Worth., 1869. Geol. Rep. 111., iii, 



p. 347. 

 .Syn. Actinocr. {Saccocrinus) Meek and Worth., 1869. Geol. Rep. 

 ' 111., iii, p. 470. 

 Syn. Megistocr. {Saccocrinus) Meek and Worth., 1873. Geol. Rep. 



111., vol. V, p. 397. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus Angelin, 1878 (in part). Iconogr. Grin. Suec, 



p. 6. 

 Syn, Saccocrinus S. A. Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. 



(July No.). 



Austin's definition of Periechocrinus is not so clear as might 

 be wished, but sufficiently distinct to imply that he described a 

 group of Crinoids of which Miller's Actinocrinus moniliformis is 

 the type. None of Austin's species were figured ; the first, F. 

 articulosus^ is but little known, the second, P. costatus has been 

 regarded a synonym of Actinocr. moniliformis^ while the third, 

 P. glohulosus, has not been defined. The species are character- 

 ized by their elongate sack-like form, the thinness of their body 

 plates, the exceedingly high radials, the conspicuous elevated 

 ridges along the radials, the large interradial and interaxillary 

 spaces, the wide anal area with a plate in line with the first 

 radials, and the large, slender, more or less branching arms. This 

 includes the American species for which Troost and Hall proposed 

 the genus Saccocrinus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 303 



It makes but little difference whether the arms in Saccocrinus 

 speciosus (Hall's type) branch again after they become free, or 

 exclusively within the body as in the case of Periechocrinus 

 moniliformis, provided their mode of branching and their con- 

 struction otherwise is similar, and this is evidently here the case. 

 There are among the European species several in which the 

 arms branch in their free state, and we find among them all pos- 

 sible intermediate gradations, from two simple arms in the ray 

 to eight, and these either simple or branching. Angelin refers 

 species with only two and four arms, if remaining simple, to 

 Actinocrinus, but it seems to us, that a generic separation, based 

 upon the number of arms, cannot be upheld in a group in which 

 a branching of the arms is not onl}' admitted, but xevy charac- 

 teristic.^ 



Angelin 's Actinocr. medius and A. major have underbasals, and 

 are referred b}" us to the KhodocrinidjB. 



We place here with doubt Angelin's Periechocr. GoMandicus 

 and P. radiatus, which both differ in the secondary radials and in 

 the style of ornamentation from all other species, while they 

 agree on the same points and in their general aspect with Glypto- 

 crinus. ]S[one of the figured specimens show the anal side, and it 

 seems quite possible that the two species, like Glyptoerinus, had 

 no anal plates in line with the first radials. 



Periechocrinus grandiscutatus, P. multicostataSy P. undulatus, 

 P. annulatus and P. geometricus, Angelinas species,. were described 

 from fragmentary plates, and their identification is doubtful, the 

 latter even, if correctly figured, had underbasals. In that species 

 onl}^ the plates of the two proximal rings are known, those of the 

 second ring are angular above, instead of truncate, and hence the 

 succeeding ring must have been alternately arranged. 



According to our interpretation, Periechocrinus includes also 

 several species from the lower Subcarboniferous, which heretofore 

 have been variousl}^ referred to Actinocrinus, Megistocrinus, or 

 Pradocrinus, but only species with thin plates and elongate body, 

 leaving those with heavy plates, depressed body, and short radials 

 under Megistocrinus. 



We are aware that we include in this genus some species which 



^ In Actinocrinus the case is similar, some species having four, others 

 eight simple arms, and the last survivors of the genus have their arms 

 branching in the free state as in species of Periechocrinus. 




304 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



possess a simple anal opening, others with apparently a small 

 ventral tube, but we were obliged to do so, because the construc- 

 tion of the ventral disk is so little known, that a subgeneric 

 division in this case could not as yet be carried out practically. 



Pradocrinus de Yerneuil, 1850, is identical with Austin's genus, 

 also Geocrinus d'Orbigny, which was proposed the same year, 

 and based upon Miller's Actinocr. moniliformis. Job. Miiller 

 referred Pradocrinus to his Pyxidocrinus, a genus in which he 

 proposed to embrace those species of the Actinocrinus group 

 which possess interaxillary plates. Angelin identifies Trocho- 

 crinus Pander with Periechocrinus, while Bigsby takes it to be 

 a synonym of Glyptocrinus. Trochocrinites Gothlandicus, 

 certainly differs in several respects from typical species of 

 Periechocrinus. 



The name Trochocrinites was preoccupied by Portlock in 1848. 

 His only species P. Isevis was described from a very imperfect 

 specimen, and we cannot accurately determine its relations, though 

 it seems to be allied to the group of P. Gothlandicus. It is cer- 

 tainly quite distinct from Angelin 's P. Isevis. We should be 

 inclined to place this species with P. Gothlandicus, P. radialus, 

 and P. pulcher in a separate group under Portlock's name, but it 

 is possible they all belong to Glyptocrinvs, and we dislike to 

 encumber the subject with generic separations based upon such 

 imperfect data. 



Austin made Periechocrinus the type of a distinct family, and 

 included in it Sagenocrinus, while Pictet and Zittel refer it to the 

 Actinocrinidfe. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body large, elongate and somewhat urn- 

 shaped ; composed of thin, almost smooth or delicately sculptured 

 plates ; radials marked along their centres with a conspicuous 

 elevated ridge, passing from plate to plate, which divides upon 

 each axillary piece, and which toward the arm-bases increases in 

 prominence, until it gradually becomes identified with the free 

 arms. Symmetry bilateral. 



Basals three, of equal size, united into a spreading cup ; 

 articulating facets for the reception of the column wide. 



Primary radials 3X5, comparatively long and narrow, con- 

 necting line unusually short, sometimes joining only by the point 

 of an angle. The first radials large, alternately hexagonal or 

 heptagonal ; the second hexagonal and smaller ; the third smaller 




PROG. A. N. 8, PHILA,, 



PL XI 





4.r so.,. 







't 



\' 





PROC. A. N. S, PHILA., 1881 



PL XII. 





PROC. A. N, S, PHILA 



PL, Xlll. 





PROC. A. N. S. PHILA., 



PL. XV, 





PROC, A. N. S, PHILA,, 



PL XVI, 




a 



1 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 305 



than the second, hexagonal or heptagonal, with an obtuse upper 

 angle supporting the secondary radials. The latter usuall}'^ 

 consist of 2 X 10 plates, the upper row, in some species, curving 

 outward and supporting the free arms, in others straight, axillary, 

 and supporting the higher orders of radials, which give off the 

 arms from every second plate, and alternatel}'^ from opposite 

 sides. The arms in either case are simple or branching, long, 

 slender, rounded, decreasing in width upward. They are from the 

 body up composed of two series of small alternating pieces, and 

 the bifurcating takes place after the arms have passed into a 

 double series of interlocking pieces. 



Pinnules slender, closely abutting. 



Interradial plates numerous ; the first one large, generally 

 hexagonal, supporting two plates in the second, and two In the 

 third range, with several series aboA'e, each containing from two 

 to three plates, which gradually decrease in size toward the 

 summit. The posterior side much wider ; first anal plate hep- 

 tagonal, equal in form to the first radials and in line with them, 

 followed b}'- three plates in the second series, and by a large 

 number of small plates above. 



Interaxillaries numerous. Vault depressed, from moderatelj^ 

 convex to almost flat; composed of small, irregularly arranged, 

 smooth pieces, among which the apical plates are indistinctly 

 represented. Anus subcentral, either in form of an opening 

 through the vault, or in some species probably extended into a 

 small tube. 



Column large, round, central canal moderately wide and round. 



Geological Position., etc. — Periechocrinus occurs from the Upper 

 Silurian to the base of the Subcarboniferous (Burlington Limest.), 

 and is found both in America and Europe. 



We recognize the following species : — 



*186I. Periechocrinus amplus Meek and Worth. (Actinocr. Pradocr. amplusl. 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbila., p. 133; also 1868, Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 470, 



PI. 16, fig. 2. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1843. Periechocr. articulosus Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., xi, p. 204. Upper 



Silur. Dudley, Eng. 

 «1830. Periechocr. Baylii de Vemeuil. fPradocr. Baylii) Bull. Soc. Geol. de France 



(ser. ii), vol. vii, p. 184, PI. 4, figs. 11 a, b, c. Devonian. District Sabero, 



Spain. 

 *I878. Periechocr. brevimanus Angel. (Actinocr. brevimanus) Iconogr. Crin. 



8uec., p. 6, PI. 18, fig. 12. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



21 




306 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



*1863. Periechoor. Christyi Hall. (Actinoor. Christyi— not Shum., 1855) Trans. 



Albany Inst., iv, p. 196; (Abstr., p. 2); Meek and Worth, 1868, Saocoor. 



Chrystyi, Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 347, PI. 5, fig. 1 ; also Hall, 1879,28th Rep. N. 



Y. St. Cab. Vat, Hist. (pd. ii), p. 127, PI. 13, figs. 12-20. Niagara gr. 



Waldron, Ind., near Chicago, III.; and Racine, Wis. 

 ^S"^". Actinocr. Whitfieldi Hall, 1868. 20th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 



p. 326; Actinocr. (Saocoor.) Whitfieldi Hall. Ibid. (Revised Ed.), 1870, 



pp. 370 and 430, 

 Syn. Megistoor. Marcouanus (1860) Winchell and Marcy. Mem. Best. Soc. 



Nat. Hist., i, p. 87, PI. 2, fig. 5. S. A. Miller, Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. 



(.July number), considers it a good species. 

 Si/n. Megistocr. infeliz Winch, and Marcy, 1866, Ibid., p. 7. 

 »185S. Periechocr. Gothlandicas Pander. (Trochocrinites Gothlandicus) Helmer- 



son's Geol. Bemerk. auf einer Reise in Schweden und Norwegen, p. 20, PI. 3, 



figs, a, b, d, e (not c); Angelin, 1878, Periechocr. gothlandicus, Iconogr. 



Crin. Suec, p. 7, PI. x, figs. 3, 4. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 This species and P. radiatUS difier from the typical form of the genus. 

 1878. Periechocr. interradiatus Angl. Iconogr. Crin, Suec. Figured without 



description, PI. 19, fig. 15. Upper Silur. Dudley, Eng. 

 *184S. Periechoor. Isevis Portlock. (Trochocrinites laevis) Geol. of Londonderry, 



p. 346, PI. 15, fig. 1. Silurian. Tyrone, Ireland. 

 *18S0. Periechoor. Lindstromi Wachsm. and Spr. (Described by Angelin as 



Actinocr. interradiatus = Periechocr. interradiatus — not the previous 



species from Dudley). Iconogr, Crin, Suec, p. 6, PI, 26, fig. 15. Upper 



Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 This species was named in honor of Prof. Lindstrom of Stockholm. 

 *187S. Periechocr. longidigitatus Angel. (Actinocr. longidigitatus) Iconogr. Crin. 



Suec, p. 6, PI. 26,figs. 19, 19 a. Upper Silur. Gothland,Sweden. 

 *I878. Perieohoor. longimanus Angel. (Actinocr. longimanus). Iconogr. Crin. 



Suec, p. 6, PI. 15, fig. 17 and PI. 26, fig, 16; PI..28, figs. 5 and 6. Upper 



Silur, Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Perieohoor. minor Wachsm, and Spr, (Desc, by Angel, as P. Isevis, not 



P. laevis Portlock's sp.) Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 7, PI, 18, fig, 11, Upper 



vSilur, Gothland, Sweden, 

 1821. Periechoor, moniliformis Miller, (Actinoor. moniliformis). Type of the genus, 



Nat. Hist. Crinoidea, p. 116; Phillips, 1839, Murchison's Silur. Syst., p, 



673, PI, 18, fig, 4; d'Orhigny, 1850, Geocr. moniliformis Prodr., i, p. 46; 



Angel,, 1878, Iconogr, Crin, Suec, PI. 19, figs. 14, a, b, c Upper Silur, 



Dudley, Eng. 

 Syn. Periechocr. oostatus Austin, 1843. Ann. and Mag. Nat, Hist,, xi, 



p. 204. 

 *1878. Perieohoor. nubilus Angelin. (Actinocr. nubilus). Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 



6, PI. 18, fig. 14. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1875. Periechocr. ornatus Hall. (Saccocr. ornatus). Geol. Rep. Ohio Paleont., 



ii, p. 126, PI. 6, figs. 7, 9. Niagara gr. Yellow Springs, 0. 

 *1854. (?) Periechocr. pulcher (Salter MS.) McCoy. (Actinocr. pulcher). Synop. 



Brit. Pal. Foss., p, 55, PI. 1 d, fig, 3, Upper Silur, Wales, 

 (This species is not well known, and may possibly belong to a separate group 



with P. radiatus, P. gothlandicus, or may be a Glyptoorinus.) 

 *1878. Periechocr. quinquangularis Angel. (Actinocr. quinquangularis). Iconogr. 

 Crin. Suec, p. 6, Pi. 16, figs. 27, 27 a, 28. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 30T 



1878. (?)Perieohoor. radiatns Angel. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 7, PI. 10, figs. 1 and 



2, and PI. 23, fig. 3; and PI. 27, figs. 6, 7. Upper Silur. Gothland, 



Sweden. 



This form differs in the size, in the style of ornamentation, and the greater 



number of secondary radials, from the typical species. 



1878. Periechocr. soanicus Angel. loonogr. Grin. Suec, p. 7, PI. 19, figs. 16, 16 a. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1878. Periechocr. Schultzianas Angel. (Actinoor. Schultzianus). Iconogr. Crin. 



Suec, p. 6, PI. 18, fig. 13. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1867. (?) Periechocr. semiradiatus Hall. (Saooocr. semiradiatus). 20th Rep. N. 

 Y. St. Cat. Nat. Hist., p. 37, PL 10, fig. 1. Niagara gr. Racine, Wis. 

 Desc. from natural casts. 

 *1862. Periechocr. speciosus Hall. (Saccocr. speciosus). Paleont. N. Y., ii, p. 

 205, PI. 44, figs. 1 and 2; also Roemer, 1860, Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 

 42, PI. 3, fig. 4. Niagara gr. Western Tennessee. 

 *1861. Periechocr. tenuidiscus Hall, (Actinocr. (?) tennidiscus). Desc. New 



Spec. Pal. Crin., p. 14. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1861. Periechocr. Whitei Hall. (Actinocr. — Megistocr. — Whitei). Desc. New 

 Spec Pal. Crin., p. 2 ; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 271 ; Meek and 

 Worthen, 1873, MegistOCr. Saococr. Whitei, Geol. Rep. 111., v, PL 6, fig. 1. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 The name of this species was printed originally Actinocr. Uegistocr. ollicn- 

 lus, but Hall changed it before publication in writing a« given above. 

 Among the Photogr. Plates subsequently published by Hall of some of his 

 new species (drawn by Whitfield and photographed by Haines), we find that 

 , through mistake fig. 6 on PL 4 has been referred to Megistocr. Whitei. 

 This is beyond doubt Hall's Actinocr. glans, an entirely different form, 

 which has a long slender anal tube and simple arms, the reverse of MegistOCr. 

 Whitei, which has an anal opening through the test and branching arms. 

 The original, formerly in the collection of Rev. Wm. H. Barris, and now in 

 the Museum of Comp. Zoology at Cambridge, was returned by Hall labeled 

 Actinocr. eryx, which is identical with Actinoor. glans. The type speci- 

 men of Megistocr. Whitei is in the Museum at Ann Arbor. 



13. ABAC0CEI5TJS Angeliu. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 19. 



1879. Zittel. Handbuch der Palseontologie, i, p. 373. 



Syn. Actinocrinus Goldfuss (in part\ 1826, Petref. Genn., i, p. 

 194. 



Ahacocrinus has its closest affinities with Megistocrinus Owen 

 and Shum., from which it differs in the number of basals, and 

 perhaps (?) in the construction of the vault, which in the former 

 is not known. It differs from Periechocrinus in being composed 

 of heavier plates, and in the number of basals. 



Angelin places Ahacocrinus with Cor ymbocrinus into a. sepa,ra,te 

 famil3\ The two agree remarkably in the arm structure, and both 

 have four basals ; but the latter plates which in Ahacocrinus are 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



large and formed into a eup, in Corymhocrinus are very small, 

 hidden from view, and located within a deep funnel as in tlie case 

 of EucalyptQcrinus. With this genus and the allied Callicrinus, 

 Gorymbocrinus agrees in the general construction of the calyx 

 so closely, that it would be diflicult to distinguish them even gen- 

 erically, unless the vault and arms were preserved. We therefore 

 arrange Goi^ymbocrinus with the Calyptocrinidie, 



Zittel places Abacocrinus and Cromycrinus both under the 

 MelocrinidfE. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body large, oblong. Calyx ovoid to sub- 

 globose ; composed of numerous, rather heavy and convex plates ; 

 symmetry bilateral. 



Basal disk convex, largely extending beyond the column ; com- 

 posed of four unequal plates, with a shallow concavity for the 

 reception of the column. Primary radials 3X5, the two proxi- 

 mal ones much wider than high ; the first pentagonal or hex- 

 agonal, and owing to the irregular number of basals, differing 

 somewhat in form. The second radials are hexagonal, except the 

 posterior ones which are pentagonal, smaller than the first. The 

 third irregularly pentagonal or hexagonal, depending on the rela- 

 tive size of adjoining interradials, sometimes even heptagonal. . 



Secondary radials 2 X 10; comparatively large, supporting two 

 rows of from five to six plates each, transversely arranged, alterna- 

 ting with each other, and laterally' interlocking. The first series com- 

 paratively higher, the succeeding plates gradually decreasing in 

 length but increasing in width. The two rows resemble, and 

 evidentl}' were, intei'locking arm plates, which in geological times 

 and by age became fixed and enclosed within the body ; they form 

 the two main trunks of the ray, which divides on becoming free, 

 each branch dividing several times again, but irregularly at uneven 

 intervals. 



Arms branching, long, gradually tapering, from the base up 

 composed of two rows of plates, which increase to four when the 

 bifurcation takes place. Pinnules long. 



Interradials numerous, with one plate in the first, two in the 

 second, and generally a single one in the third series, all large 

 and nearly of equal size. The fourth series has generally but one 

 plate, which is followed by several other series of smaller j^lates, 

 each composed of from two to three pieces. The first anal plate 

 is octangular, exceedingly large, larger even than the first radials. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 309 



It lies directly above one of the basals, resting upon its truncate 

 upper side. Second series composed of three plates, the middle 

 one extending beyond the other two ; the two outer ones in line 

 with the second series of interradials (not the first as is usually 

 the case), and rests against the superior edges of the second (not 

 the first radials), these again are followed by five or six rows of 

 plates, generally of three each, which decrease in size upward. 

 The plates of the interaxillary areae are numerous. 



There is a single large plate in each of the two first series, which, 

 together with the upper interradial plates, connect the two main 

 arm-trunks with the body walls. Construction of the vault 

 unknown. 



Column large, composed of rather high, alternately thicker and 

 thinner joints. 



Geological Position, etc. — Abacocrinus, so far as known, is con- 

 fined to the Upper Silurian of Europe. 



Angelin places here the following species : 



1878. Abacocrinus Cappelleri Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 19, PI. 3, figs. S, 8 a. 



Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Abacocr. medius Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 19, PI. 24, fig. 1. Upper 



Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Abacocr. tessellatus Angl. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 19, PI. 18, fig. 6, and PI. 



23, figs. 24, 25. Upper Silur. Gothland, Swelen. 

 1826. Abacocr. tesseracontadactylus G'-ldf. (Aotinocrinus tesseracontadactylus), 



Petref. German, i, p. 194, PI. 59, fig. 5 ; Angelin, 1878, Ababocrinus, (type 



of the genus). Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p, 19, PI. 18, figs. 2, 5, and PI. 23, figs. 



23, 23 a. Upper Silur. Gothland, Sweden. 



14. MEGISTOCRINUS Owen and Shumard, 



1852. Ow. & Shum. U. S. Geol. Rep, Iowa. "Wis. & Minn,, p, 594. 



1857, Lyon, Proc. Acad, Nat. Set. Phila., p. 412, 



1858, Hall, Geol. Rep. Iowa, 1,, pt. 11, p. 479, 



1859, Lyon «fe Casseday. Amer, Jour of Scl,, vol, 28, p, 243. 

 1862, White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat, Hist., p. 16, 



1869. Meek & Worth. (In part), Proc. Acad, Nat. Scl. Phila., p, 163. 



1873. Meek & Worth, (In part). Geol. Rep, 111, v, p, 393, 



1876. White. Proc. Acad. Nat, Scl., Phila., p. 29. 



1878. Barris. Proc. Davenport. Acad. Nat. Scl., 11 , p. 285. 



1879. Zlttel. Handbuch der Palaeontologle, 1, p. 371 (not Hall, 1861, 



Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 271 ; nor Wlnchell and Marcy, 1866, 

 Mem. Bos. Soc. Nat. Hist., pp. 87 and 110 = Periechocrinus), 



Syn, Aetinocrinus Hall, 1858, Geol, Rep, Iowa, 1, pt, 11, pp, 571 and 

 573. 



Syn, Aetinocrinus Lyon, 1857. Geol. Rep. Ky., ill, p. 479. 



Syn. Sagenocrinus K.ngQ\\n, 1878 (in part). Iconogr. Crin. p, 8. 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



This genus is closely allied to Abacocrinus, but differs essen- 

 tially in the number of basals, and in the disposition of the anal 

 plates. It differs from Periechocrinus in the depressed form of 

 the body, in the I'obust nature of its plates, and in the construc- 

 tion of the vault. 



By former authors, and originally by Owen and Shnmard, Megisio- 

 crinus was referred subgenerically to Actinocrinus. It was 

 thereby sufficiently distinguished as long as the majority of all 

 Actinocrinidffi were referred to the genus Actinocrinus, but since 

 this has been subdivided and restricted to a limited group, it is 

 evident that Megistocrinus should form a distinct genus. Angelin 

 made it a synomym of Sagenocrinus but this has underbasals and 

 single-jointed branching arms. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Species generally large. Body depressed, 

 wider than high; calyx in form of a cup or basin, of which the 

 lower portions, up to the middle of the first radials, form the 

 bottom part ; plates heavy ; dome not much elevated ; symmetry 

 bilateral. 



Basals three, of equal size, spreading horizontally and producing 

 an equilateral, hexagonal disk, which is either on the same plane 

 with the surrounding radials and first anal plate, or, which forms 

 between those plates a sunken area without any further concavity. 

 Primary radials 3X5, almost of like form, slightly decreasing in 

 size upward ; all wider than high, and generally hexagonal. The 

 third radials have an obtuse angle, and support from their sloping 

 sides a single secondary radial, which is either axillary and suc- 

 ceeded by 1 X 2 X 10 tertiar}^ radials, or is followed by two rows 

 of plates which are arranged transversely, alternating with each 

 other and interlocking, and which, as in Abacocrinus, form the 

 main trunks of the arms. In species with tertiary radials these 

 support two rows of plates, similar to those of the preceding 

 order, and there are within the body three or four arm tranks 

 instead of two. 



Arms bifurcating throughout their length, and in a similar 

 manner as in the preceding genus. The arms, from the body up, 

 are composed of two rows of short joints, and are fringed with 

 long, round pinnules. 



Interradials numerous ; one in the first, two in the second, and 

 three in the third series, with several more ranges of minute 

 pieces above. First anal plate in line with the first radials, and 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 311 



of the same form and proportions ; succeeded by three plates in 

 the second, three or four in the third, and a number of irregular 

 small plates above. Axillary pieces three or more, which, with 

 the upper interradial pieces, connect the lower portions of the arms 

 with the body. 



Vault depressed, slightl}'^ convex, composed of a great number 

 of pieces, irregularly arranged, which surround the considerably 

 larger, and generally nodose or spiniferous apical plates. The 

 central plate is always very conspicuous, and is enclosed either 

 directly by the proximal dome plates (but only in very small 

 pieces and in young specimens), or it is, more frequently, sepa- 

 rated from the others by a broad ring of small pieces, which 

 also separate the proximal plates from each other. The first 

 radial dome plates are large, isolated and pushed near the margin 

 of the ventral disk. Anal opening on top of a short proboscidiform 

 protuberance, which in Devonian species is placed more or less 

 excentric, while in all species from the Subcarboniferous it is 

 strictly lateral and located within the horizon of the arm-bases. 



Column round, very strong, composed of alternately thicker 

 and thinner joints, with large lateral cirrhi toward the lower end, 

 and an enormous root ; articulating faces of all columnar joints 

 strongly marked with radiating lines ; central canal very large 

 and decidedl}" pentalobate. 



Geological Position, etc. — Jfeg'^s/ocr^n^/s ranges from almost the 

 base of the Devonian to the Burlington limestone, where it 

 becomes extinct. It is only known from America. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1857. Megistocrinus abnormis Lyon. (Actinocr. abnormis). Geol. Rep. Ky., Hi, 



p. 479, PI. 4, figs. 1 a, b. Encrinal limest. Devonian. Louisville, Ky. 

 *1858. Megistocr. brevicornis Hall. (Actinocr. brevicomis). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, 

 pt. ii, p. 571, PI. 10, figs. 4 a, b. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Sya. Actinocr. superlatus Hall, 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, ii, p. 572. 

 Syn. Actinocr. minor Hall, 1858. Ibid., p. 573. 

 1862. Megistocr. crassus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 17. Lower 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1862. Megistocr. depressus Hall. 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 134. 



Hamilton gr. Western N. York. 

 1850. Megistocr. Evansii Owen and Shum, (Type of the genus). Actinocr. Evansii. 

 Jour. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. (new ser.), vol. i, pt. ii, p. 68; Megistocr. 

 Evansii, 1852, U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wise and Minn., p. 591, PI. 5 A, figs. 

 3 a, b. Lower and Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Megistocr. plenus White. Proc. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 16. 

 Syn. Megistocr. parvirostris Meek and AVorth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 165; Geol. Rep. 111., vol. v, p. 396, PI. 6, fig. 7. 




312 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Megistocr. Evansii was desnribed from the Lower, and M. plenus, and M. par- 

 virostris from the Upper Burlington limestone. The latter is evidently only 

 a young specimen of M. plenus, which cannot be distinguished sufficiently 

 from the lower bed form. It is highly probable that M. brevicomis is like- 

 wise a young stage of M. Evansii. 

 1876. Megistocr. Farnsworthi White. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 29. Hamil- 

 ton gr., Devon. Solen and Iowa City, Iowa. 



1857. Megistocr. Knappi Lyon. Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 412, PI. 4, figs. 6 



a, b. Upper Helderberg, Louisville, Ky. 



1858. Megistocr. latus Hall. Ueol. Rep. Iowa, vol. i, pt. ii, p. 480, PI. 1, figs. 1 a, b. 



Hamiltiin gr. New Bufi'alo, Iowa. 

 1S78. Megistocr. nodosus Barris. Proc. Davenport Acad. Nat. Sci., voL ii, p. 285, 



PI. 2, fig. 4. Encrinal limest. Near Davenport, Iowa. 

 1862. Megistocr. Ontario Hall. 15th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 136. 



Hamilton gr. Western New York. 

 1869. Megistocr. rugosus Lyon and Cass. Amer. Journ. Sci., vol. 28, p. 243. 



Encrinal limest. Louisville, Ky. 

 1361. Megistocr. spinosulus Lyon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 413, PI. 4, 



fig?. 7 a, b. Upper Helderberg gr. Louisville, Ky. 

 Either this species is incorrectly figured, or it does not belong here. It slightly 



re-embles Hadrocrinus Lyon. 



e. ACTINOCRINITES. 



15. ACTINOCRINUS Miller.i 



1821. Miller. History of the Crinoidea, p. 90. 



1844. McCoy. Synop. Carb. Foss. Ireland. 



1853. De Koninck and Lehon. Rec. Crin. Belg., p. 125. 



1855. Roemer. Lethsea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 246. 



1866. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 149. 



1869. Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 153. 



1878. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 340. 



1878. Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 241. 



1878. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeontologie, i, p. 369, 



Not Angelin, 1878. Iconogr. Crin. Suae, p. 6. 



Under Aclinocrinus a very large number of forms have been 

 described from America and Europe, and from the Upper Silurian 

 to near the close of the Subcarboniferous, which were afterwards 

 referred to independent genera. There can be, however, no doubt 

 as to the group which should keep the name, as fortunately all of 



' In the list of references we quote only those publications which have a 

 direct or indirect bearing upon the present, greatly restricted form of the 

 genus. The following writers embraced with it, more or less, the entire 

 family : Agassiz, 1835 ; Goldfuss, 1826-1831 ; Phillips, 1886-1839; McCoy, 

 1844 ; Austin, 1842 ; D'Orbigny, 1850 ; Owen and Schumird, 1850-1852 ; 

 de Kon. and Lehon, 1853 ; Shumard, 1855 and 1866 ; Pictet, 1857 ; Joh. 

 Miiller, 1857 ; Hall, 1858, 1860 and 1861 ; McChesney, 1860 ; Schultze, 1867. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 313 



Miller's tj'pical species, with a single exception, belong to the 

 same division, and his A. triacontadacttjlus and A. j)oly dactyl us 

 must form the t3pes.' The genus Actinocrinus, as amended by 

 Meek and Worthen, and as it is now understood, embraces almost 

 the majority of all European Actinocrinidae, while it includes in 

 this country, although represented by even more species, only a 

 comparatively small portion of the general representation of the 

 famil}'. 



Meek and Worthen, after carefully restricting the genus, sepa- 

 rate it in vols, ii and v of the Illinois Report into two sections : 



A. The arms given otf directly from the body and forming a 

 continuous ring around it ; the divisions of the ray taking place 

 in the calyx proper, which has a more or less subconical form. 



B. The radials, from the third primary up, bend abruptly out- 

 ward, forming protruding lobes, which at the interradial spaces 

 produce deep sinuses. The divisions take place in the lobes, 

 which frequently are extended into free rays, and these giving off 

 the arms. 



Looking at the species of the two sections, and particularl}- at 

 A. proboscidialis with only twenty arms on the one hand, and A. 

 Loivei with fifty or sixty arms on the other ; these distinctions 

 seem to acquire almost generic value ; but comparing species with 

 a njore nearly equal number of arms, it will be found that the 

 division cannot be carried out practically, at least not among 

 the European species, which in the majority of eases form alink 

 between the two extremes of the American species. 



The genus Actinocrinus has frequently been confounded with 

 Batocrinus, and neither Casseday, the founder of the latter, nor 

 Meek and Worthen, who recognize it, have pointed out any dis- 

 tinctions which warrant their generic division. Such, however, do 

 exist, as we hope to prove. 



In Actinocrinus and other Actinocrinites, the anal area, as a 

 rule, has but a single special anal plate, and this located between 

 the two first primary radials. There are two plates in the second 

 series which are in line with — and take the place of — the larger first 



' Roemerinl855 restricted the genus Actinocrinus to the Subcarbon- 

 iferous, and included in it only such species which at the arm regions are 

 provided "mit rundlichen Falten," and in which the vault is elevated 

 and extended into a proboscis. He refers all Silurian and Devonian 

 species previously described under Actinocrinus, to distinct families. 




314 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



interradial in other series, contrary to Batocrinus and all other 

 groups of the Actinocrinidae, which in that series have three 

 plates, or, as we express it, also a special anal plate in the second 

 series. In Batocrinus the second primary radials are linear and 

 quadrangular, in Actinocrinus hexagonal and of a similar form as 

 the first radials. The secondary radials in the former contain 

 two or even three pieces, while in the latter the same order of 

 radials, and all others above the first, have but a single series of 

 plates. 



In Batocrinus the arms, from the first joint up, are composed 

 of a double series of small i^ieces, while these plates in Actino- 

 crinus are preceded by two, three or more large cuneate single 

 joints. In both genera the species show a great variability in the 

 number of their arms, but while in Actinocrinus the whole number 

 of arms is equally divided among the rays, in Batocrinus the raj's 

 adjoining the posterior side frequently have the greater number. 

 In the former, all divisions of the ray are given off alternately 

 from opposite sides, the branches remaining simple ; in Bato- 

 crinus^ the divisions are equal, and each branch bifurcates again ; 

 there are, however, rarelj' more than two divisions from each ray, 

 except toward the posterior side, where the inner division of the 

 rays have s^saetimes tw6 additional bifurcations. 



Closer than with Batocrinus are the relations with Gennseo- 

 crinus^ which, as has been stated, occupies an intermediate position 

 between Actinocrinus and Batocrinus, and which, preceding them 

 in geological times, represents a link between the two genera. 



We place McCoy's Fhillijysocrinus provisionally under Actino- 

 crinus, which it resembles very closel}^ in its general habitus. It 

 has the same peculiar ornamentation, is lobed, has a strong sub- 

 central anal tube, nodose vault-pieces, but it has, according to 

 description, four basals and only 2X5 radials. The latter was 

 evidently a mistake, most probably the third radials were strongly 

 bent outward and not preserved. McCoy had only a single 

 specimen for description, and that this was an abnormal one is 

 sulficiently proved by the presence of seven plates in the second 

 range. It is very possible that the malformation made the addi- 

 tional plate in the basal ring necessary, for there is no other 

 specimen with four basals known from the Subcarboniferous. 

 Pictet refers Phillipsocrinus to llelocrinus, which we cannot 

 indorse. / 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 315 



Generic Diagnosis Body turbinate, more or less lobed at the 



arm-regions ; calyx beautifully ornamented with radiating striae, 

 which concentrate at the middle of the plate, where they form 

 into a more or less prominent node ; vault extended into a large 

 subcentral anal tube. 



Basals three, equal, rather large, and forming a shallow cup, the 

 lower side slightly excavated for the column. Primarj'^ radials 

 3X5, the first larger than the rest, alternately hexagonal and 

 heptagonal, generally higBer than wide ; the second hexagonal, 

 smaller than the first, its height almost as great as its width ; the 

 third pentagonal and smaller, frequently bent outward, sometimes 

 abruptl}^ and forming the base of a lateral extension, which gives 

 to the radial portions a lobed, and to the general body a stellate 

 form. Secondary radials 1 X 10, axillary. Succeeding orders of 

 radials composed of a single series of plates to each division of 

 the ray, the one axillary, the other simple. The simple plate is 

 succeeded by a number of brachials connected with the body, 

 which jointly form a fixed branch in a lateral direction. 



The axillary plate supports always toward the opposite side of 

 the preceding order the next series of radials, and so on alter- 

 nately until the full number of arms of the species is produced. 

 Arms numerous, not bifurcating in their free state, or rarely so ; 

 their number very variable, ranging among the different species 

 from not less than twenty to fifty or more ; and these equally 

 divided among the rays. The arms are long, rather heavy, their 

 upper ends round or somewhat flattened, the tips infolded. The}'^ 

 are composed of a double series of narrow plates, separated by a 

 zigzag suture. The pinnules are long, given off, like in the case of 

 all double-jointed arms, from every joint and from both rows, they 

 are laterally compressed, with the abutting sides flat. The joints of 

 which the pinnules are composed are long, and they are provided 

 at their outer side, near the middle, with a tooth-like spine, some- 

 times of considerable length, which is curved upward in form of 

 a hook. The inner side of the joints is deeply grooved, and 

 covered with two rows of small alternate plates. The pinnules 

 are laterally attached, and resemble a fine network ; those of the 

 same arm rest tightly against those of the opposite row, thus 

 closing the ventral furrows both of arm and pinnules, in case the 

 arms are folded. 



The interradials generally consist of three large plates, almost 




316 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



of equal size. There is one in the first, and two in the suc- 

 ceeding series, the third series consisting either of one large or of 

 two comparatively small pieces, a fourth series is but rarely ob- 

 served. The posterior side has a special anal plate in line 

 with the first primary radials, and is of equal size with them.. 

 There are two plates in the second, smaller than the first inter- 

 radial at the other sides, and one, two or three plates in the 

 succeeding series, Interaxillary plates may be present or absent, 

 their number never exceeds three. 



The vault is composed of rather conspicuous plates, all proxi- 

 mal and radial dome plates nodose or tuberculous, the others 

 merely convex, with the exception of the centre plate, which is 

 prominent, larger than the rest, and which toward the anteiior 

 side forms the base of the anal tube. The tube is almost central, 

 strong, composed of heavy pieces, and sometimes extends bej^ond 

 the limits of the arms. 



Inner floor of the vault, along the interpalmar spaces, strength- 

 ened by braces, which increase in thickness outward, leaving open 

 galleries which diverge to the arm bases. There is a respiratory (?) 

 pore apparently at the side of each arm opening ; they however, 

 are but rarely observed, owing to imperfect preservation of the 

 arm bases. 



Column long, moderatel}^ heavy, its joints frequently sharply 

 edged ; central canal round or pentalobate, and of medium size. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The genus is strictly Subcarbon- 

 iferous, and has been found only in the lower and middle portions 

 of that formation. In America it does not extend vertically 

 beyond the Keokuk limestone ; geographical distribution wide. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1853. Actinocrinus armatus De Koninck and Lehon. Rech. Crin. Belg., p. 138, 

 PI. 4, figs. 4, a, b, c ; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 149. Mount, 

 limest. Toiirnay, Belgium. 



1869. Actinocr. asperrimus Meek and Worthen. (Strotocr. (1) asperrimus). Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 160; also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 349, PI. 8, fig. 3. 

 Lower Burlington limestone (not Upper, as stated by Meek and Worthen). 

 This is a regular transition form between Aotinocrinus and Teleioorinus, but 

 as the rim is interrupted not only at the interradial, but also over the inter- 

 axillary spaces, we arrange it with Actinocrinus. 



1860. Actinocr. brontes Hall (Sect. A). Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 47; Meek and 



Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 



1861. Actinocr. clarus Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 2; also Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 277, Photgr. PI. 2, figs. 24, 25 ; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 

 HI., V, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 317 



1858. Actinocr. coelatus Hall (Sect. B). Geo). Rep Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 585, PI. 10, 

 figs. 14, a, b; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. Illinois, v, p. 341. Lower 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1844. Actinocr. constrictus McCoy (Sect. A). Synop. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 181, 



PI. 27, fig. 3. Mount, limest. Ireland. 

 1844. Actinocr. costus McCoy. Synop. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 181, PI. 26, fig. 2 ; 

 de Kon. and Lehon, 1853, Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 129, PI. 3, figs. 2, a, b and 

 PI. 4, figs. a-d. Mount, limest. Ireland, and Tournay, Belg. 

 It seems very probable that A. costus, A. Iffivis and A. tennuis are synonyms, 

 1864. Actinocr. Baphne Hall (Sect. B). 17th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 

 52: also 1873, Geol. Rep. Ohio Paleont., ii, p. 162, PI. 11, fig. 11. Waverly 

 sandstone. Richfield, Ohio. 

 1843. Actinocr. decadactylus Portlock (not Goldf. = Melocr. decadactylus). Geol. 



Rep. Londonderry, p. 349. Mount, limest. Ireland. 

 1853. Actinocr. deornatus de Kon. and Lehon. Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 142, PI. 3, 

 figs. 5, a, b. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg., and Wexford, Engl. 

 Probably A, df ornatus, A. stellatus, A. dorsatus, and perhaps A. icosidac- 

 tylliB arc synonyms. 

 1853. Actinocr. dorsatus de Kon. and Lehfn. Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 139, PI. 4, 

 figs. 5 a, b; Meek and Worthen (Sect. A), Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 149. Mount, 

 limest. Tournay, Belgium. 

 «1869. Actinocr. ectypus Meek and Worthen. (Strotocr. ectypus). Proe. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p.' 159; also 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 253, PI. 7, fig. 5. Lo«er 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 This is a good Actinocrinas, the type specimen was depressed, and thereby 

 had obtained an unnatural expression somewhat like Strotoorinus 

 1861. Actinocr. exoerptus Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 3; also, Bost. 

 Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 276; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 A very doubtful species, probably S'l/n. of A. proboscidialis. 

 1860. Actinocr. Fosteri McCbesney (Sect. B). Desc. New Pal. Foss., p. 19 ; also, 

 1867, Chicago Acad. Sci., p. 14, PI. 5, fig. 2; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 

 111., V, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860. Actinocr. glans Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 16. Upper Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syit. Actinocr. tholus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 35. 

 Syit. Actinocr. eryx Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 12. 

 This is a very variable species. The plates of the body ic the lower layers at 

 Burlington are scarcely convex, higher up, almost tuberculous, specimens of 

 the former kind being described as A. glans, those of the latter as A. tholus. 

 As A. eryx Halt redescribed a species of A. glans in which arms and anal 

 tube were preserved, and in his photographic plates, which were distributed 

 several years later. Hall unfortunately confounded his A. eryx (we examined 

 the type specimen now in the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Cambridge), 

 with Megistoor. Whitei, which has branching in place of simple arms, and 

 no anal tube. 

 The species deviates somewhat in its general habitus from Actinocrinus, and 

 we therefore place it here with gome doubt. 

 1S60. Actinocr. Hurdianus McChesney (Sect. B). Desc. New Pal. Foss., p. 24; 

 also 1867, Chicago Acad. Sci., p. 17, PI. 5, figs. 24: Meek and Worthen, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa, 




318 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



.1843. Aotinoor. ioosidaotylus Portlock. R^p. on the County of Londonderry, p. 348, 

 Fl. 15, fig. 7; de Ron. and Lehon, 1853, Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 141, PI. 2, 

 fig. 4 and PI. 4, fig. 6. Mount, liuiest. Engl, and Belg. 



1861. Aotinoor. infrequens Hall (Sect. B). Deso. New Sp. Crin., p. 14; Meek and 

 Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



1860. Aotinoor. jagosna Hall (Sect. A). Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 49. Lower 



portion of the Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa, and Warsaw and Hamil- 

 ton, 111. 

 1821. Aotinoor. laevis Miller (not Goldfuss nor Kloeden). Hist, of Crinoidea, 

 p. 105, and plates; Agassiz, 1835, Mem. Soo. Neuchat., i, p. 196 ; Milne- 

 Edwards, Anira. s. vert, de Lamk. (2™"= ed.), vol. ii, p. 670; de Koninck, 

 1842, Anim. Foss. du Terr. Carb., p. 62, PI. G, figs. 4 a, b, c ; McCoy, 1844 

 (with doubt), Syn. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 182; de Kon. and Lebon, 1853, 

 Recher. Crin. Belg., p 152, PI. 3, fig. 6. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 Syn. Enorinus dubius Schlottheim. Nachtr. Petref., ii, p. 100, PI. 28, 

 figs. 2 a, b. 



1861. Aotinoor. Hmabracliiatus Hall (Sect, B). Do.=c. New Sp. Crin., p. 2; also, 



Bost. Jour. Nat. Hist., p. 268; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Aotinoor. lobatus Hall (Sect. A). Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 51 ; Meek and 



Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Keokuk limest. Warsaw, 111. 

 1869. Aotinoor. longus Meek and AVorthen (Sect. B). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 156; also, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 345, PI. 8, fig. 1. Lower Burlington 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. Aotinoor. Lowei Hall (Sect. A). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i. pt. ii, p. 611, PI. 15, figs. 



5 a, b; Meek and Worthen, G'eol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Keokuk limest. Iowa 



and Illinois. 



1861. Aotinoor. laoina Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 11. Lower Burling- 



ton limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. Aotinoor. multibraohiatus Hall (Sect. B). Geol. Rop. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 580, 



PI. 10, fig. 10; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Bur- 

 lington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. A. multibraohiatus var. eohinatus Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., 



p. 10. 

 J 857. Aotinoor. multiradiatus Shumard (Sect. A). Trans, Acad. Sci. St. Louis, i, 



p. 7, PI. 1, fig. 5 ; Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 579, PI. 10, fig. 9 ; 



Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Upper Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Aotinoor. opusoulus Hall (Sect. B). Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 261 ; Meek 



and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1849. Aotinoor. oUa McCoy (Sect. A). Ann. and Mag., p. 247. Mount, limest. 



Derbyshire, Eng. 

 1861. Aotinoor. ovatus Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 14; Meek and 



Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 



Iowa. 

 1869. Aotinoor. penioillus Meek and Worthen (Sect. A). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 155; also, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 342, PL 8, fig 2. Lower 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 319 



1858. Actinocr. pernodosus Hall (Sect. A). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 608, PI. 

 15, figs. 3, a, b; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., t, p. 341. Keokuk 

 limest. Iowa and Illinois. 

 1821. Actinocr. polydaotylus Miller (not Bonney = Mariarr. pachydactylua Hall, 

 = Melocr. pachydaciylui Wachsm. and Spr.). Hist. Crinoidea, p. 103 

 Agassiz, Mem. Soo. de Neuchat., i, p. 197; Milne-Edwards, 1836, Aniin. s. 

 vert, de Lamk. (ed. ii), vol. ii, p. 670; Bronn, 1836, Lethaea Geogn , i, p 

 61, PI. 4, fig. 4, and p. 670 ; Phillips, 1836, Geol. Yorkshire, ii, p. 206, PI. 4 

 figs. 17, 18 ; de Koninck, Anim. Foss. Terr. Carb. Belg., p. 51, PI. G, figs. 3 

 a, b; McCoy, 1844, Synop. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 183, and British Pal. Foss 

 Mus. Cambr., ii, p. 121; de Kon. and Lehon, 1853, Recher. Crin. Belg., p 

 154, PI. 4, fig. 2 ; Roemer, .1855, Letbaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 248. Mount 

 limest. Mendip Hills, Caldy, Ireland, and Tournay, Belg. 

 1858. Actinocr. proboscidialis Hall (Sect. B). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 584, PI. 

 10, fig. 13 ; Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Bnr- 

 lington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syu. A. lagina Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 13. 

 Syn. A. quaternarias Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 22. 

 Syn. A. qnaternaiius var. spiniferas Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 11. 

 Syn. A. themis Hall, 1861. Ibid., p. 11. 

 1844. (?) Actinocr. pusillus McCoy. Synop. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 182, PI. 26, fig. 

 4.- Mount, limest. Ireland. 

 There is SDme doubt whether this species belongs to Aotinocrinus ; the rays 

 are lobed but more like in species of Doryorinus. Figure and description 

 are too indistinct to ascertain therefrom the form of the anus. 

 1861. Actinocr. reticulatus Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Spec. Crin., p. 2; also Bost. 

 Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 269; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. A. locellus Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 15. 

 Syn. A. thoas Hall, 1861. Ibid., p. 11. 

 1860. Actinocr. scitulas Meek and Worthen (Sect. A). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 

 p. 386; abo Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 202, Ibid., v, p. 341. Upper Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. A. rusticus Hall, 1861. Desc. New Sp. Crin. p. 2; also Bost. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 267. 

 Syn. A. Sillimani Meek and Worthen, 1861. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 134. 

 Syn. A. Wachsmutlii White, 1861 (not 1879). Proc. Bost. Acad. Nat. Hist., 

 vol. ix, p. 17. 

 1S60. Actinocr, sexarmatus Hall (Sect. B). Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 21 ; Meek 

 and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341, Photogr. PI. 3, fig. 26. Lower Bur- 

 lington liraest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. A. securus Hall, 1861. Desc. New Pal. Crin , p. 14. 

 Syn A. thetis Hall, 1861. Ibid., p. 11. 

 18»3. Actinocr. stellaris de Kon. and Lehon. Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 456, PI. 3, 

 figs. 3, a, b, and figs. 4, a-g ; also PI. 4, fig. 3 ; Pictet, Traite de Paleont., 

 iv, p. 323, PI. 101, fig. 5. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 

 Syn. A. Gilbertsoni de Koninck (not Miller nor Phillips). Anim. Foss. du 

 Terr. Carb. de Belg., p. 50, PI. G, figs. 2, a, b, c. 

 1853. Actinocr. tennnis de Kon. and Lehon. Recher. Crin. Belg., p. 128, PI. 2 

 figs. 3, a, b. Mount, limest. Tournay, Belg. 




320 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



1860. Actinoor. tennuiscalptus McChesney (Sect. I?). Dese. New Pal. Foss., p. 15 : 



also Chicaj;!) Acad. Sci., 1867, vol. i, PI. 5, fig. 11. Lower Burlington liraest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n. A. ohloris Hall. Dcsc, New Sp. Pal. Crin., p. 3; also Best. Journ. Nat. 



Hist., p. 275. 

 This species and A. daphne Hall, were placed by Meek and Worthcn under 



Sect. A ; but they belong more properly to Sect. B. 

 1836. Actinocr. tessellatus Phill. (Sect. B). Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206, PI. 4, fig. 21. 



Mount, limest. Sommerset, Engl. 



1861. Actinoor. thalia Hall (Sect. B). Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 13; Meek and 



Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



1821. Actinoor. triacontadaotylus Miller. Type of the genus. HLst. of the Crin- 

 oidea, p. 95, with five plates ; Agas-^iz, 1835, Mem. Soc. de Neuchat., i, p. 

 196; Phillips, 1836, Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206, PI. 4, figs. 12, 13; 1843, Port- 

 lock, Geol. Rep. Londonderry, p. 348; McCoy, 1844, Garb. Foss. Ireland, p. 

 182 ; Brit. Pal. Foss. Mus. Cambr., p. 121 ; De Kon. and Lehon, 1853, Recher. 

 Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 131, PI. 3, fig. 1; Roemer, 1865, Lethaea Geogn. 

 (Ausg. 3), p. 248. Mount, limest. Yorkshire, Mendip Hills, near Bristol, 

 Engl., and Tournay, Belg. 



1853. Actinocr. tricuspidatus de Kon. and Lehon. Recber. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 

 143, PI. 2, figs. 5, a, b; Pictet, 1857, Traitg de Paleont., iv, p. 323, PI. 101, 

 fig. 4. Mount, limest. Vise, Belg. 



1860. Actinocr, unicarinatus Hall (Sect A). Snpp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 48. Bur- 

 lington and Keokuk. Transition bed (not Keokuk bed proper as given by Hall). 



1858. Actinoor. verrucosus Hall (Sect. A). Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 578, PI. 10, 

 figs. 7 a, b ; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 341. Upper Burling- 

 ton limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n. A. asterias McChesney, 1860. New Pal. Foss., p. 9; also, 1867, Chicago 

 Acad. !»ci., vol. i, p. 9, PI. 6, fig. 6. 



1875. Actinocr. viaticus White (Sect. B). U. S. Surv. West of the 100th Meridian, 

 under Wheeler, iv, Paleont., p. 82, PI. v, fig. 1. (Preliminary Rep., 1874) 

 Subcarbon. Nevada. 



16. TELEIOCRINirS nov. gen. 

 (rf/.ttoc, perfect; Kphm; a lily. ) 



Syn. Actinoerinus Hall (in part), 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 



590, and Ibid. Suppl , 1860, 

 Syn. Calathoc rimi s HaW, 1861 (not von Meyer, 1848). Subgenus of 



Actinoerinus. Desc. New Pal. Crin., p. 12. 

 Syn. Strotocrinus (Sect. B) Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, 



p. 188. 



The above name is proposed for a series of species, which were 

 arranged b}'^ Meek and Worthen in a section under Strotocrinus^ 

 but which differ from the typical form of that genus in being 

 provided with a long anal tube, instead of having a simple opening 

 through the vault, as in their Sect. A. The form of the anus alone 




1881.] NATUEAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 321 



would warrant only a subgeneric division of the two groups, but 

 there are other characters which have induced us to separate 

 them generically. 



In our general remarks upon the family, we have shown that 

 Meek and Worthen's Strotocrinus B, for which we propose the 

 genus Teleiocrinus, in all probability, sprung off from Actino- 

 crinus, Sect. B; while Meek and Worthen's StrotocrinuH A — 

 their t^-pical form — is similarly related to Phijsetocrinus, which 

 we separate generically from Actinocrinus. The lateral rim, 

 therefore, which produces the remarkable resemblance, according 

 to our interpretation, in the form of Strotocrinus and Teleiocrinus., 

 results from modifications in the one and the same direction, but 

 which take place in different groups. We propose the following : — 

 Generic Diagnosis. — Bod}'' large ; calyx urn-shaped, subconical 

 below ; the upper part, including the higher orders of radials, 

 spread out horizontally, and formed into an extended, continuous 

 rim around the body ; vault moderately convex, with a strong 

 subcentral anal tube ; surface ornamentation similar to Actino- 

 crinus, but, as a rule, very much coai-ser, the nodes more 

 prominent than the striations, and sometimes almost entirely 

 obscuring them. 



Basals three, large, massive, projecting beyond the point of 

 attachment for the column, and frequently extended into a 

 bipartite node ; sutures deep. 



Primary radials 3X5; the first large, as high as wide ; the 

 second generally hexagonal, of the same proportions as the first 

 but smaller ; the third like the second, but angular above instead 

 of truncate. 



Secondary radials 1 X 10, axillary, supporting the two main 

 divisions of the ray. The radials of all succeeding orders are 

 composed respectivel}^ of a single series of pieces, of which only 

 one plate, of each main division, in each order, bifurcates again, 

 and this alternately on opposite sides, the other — opposite — plate 

 which is never axillary, being succeeded in a direct line by a row 

 of a variable number of fixed arm plates, which form branches 

 within the body, alternatel}^ given off from the main trunks. All 

 plates of the lateral branches and main divisions are closely 

 joined with each other, and with those of the adjoining rays, and 

 these together form the peculiar rim which surrounds the body. 

 The plates of the rim are nearly of equal size, convex, and formed 



22 




322 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



longitudinally into ridges, which give to the alternate branches 

 the aspect of fixed arms, which they evidently are. Arm openings 

 large and lateral, with a separate respiratory (?) pore to each 

 opening. 



Interradial, anal and interaxillary plates arranged as in Actino- 

 cri7ius, and scarcely more numerous, they decrease in size upward, 

 the upper ones are very minute. 



Dome convex, in form of a ten-rayed star, indistinctly grooved 

 between the arm bases. Yault constructed of larger and smaller 

 pieces, wliich all decrease outward. The larger ones, wiiich 

 include the apical and all radial plates, are nodose or in part 

 spiniferous ; the smaller ones, including interradial and other 

 accessory pieces are scarcely convex. The inner floor of the 

 vault is strengthened by braces, which increase in thickness as 

 they recede from the centre, and which, on approaching the rim, 

 extend to the calyx, and from tunneled passages, one to each arm 

 opening. 



Column comparatively slender, composed of short, round joints, 

 a part of which, at regular intervals, project out bej^ond the 

 others, and send up and down, all around, at equal distances, five 

 thickened processes or ribs, apparently as a natural provision to 

 give it strength without destroying its flexibility. These pro- 

 cesses give to the column a highly sculptured and somewhat pen- 

 tagonal aspect, especially in its upper portions, where they are 

 prominent and almost continuous vertically. But as these pro- 

 cesses are only attached to the older and larger joints of the 

 column, they gradually grow farther apart as they recede from 

 the body, by the interpolation of the later developed joints, which 

 increase in number downward. Some species, in place of five, 

 have ten or more rows of processes along the column. 



Perforation of medium size ; pentalobate. 



Geological Position, etc. — Teleiocrinus is limited to the Upper 

 Burlington limestone, and is found only in America. 



We place here the following species : — 



*1859. Teleiocrinus aegilops Hall. (Actinocr. aegilops) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, 



p. 5; Meek and Worthen, Strotocr. (B) aegilops, Geol. Rep. 111., r, p. 349. 



Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 This is probably a younger stage of Teleiocr. umbrosus. 

 *I861. Teleiocr. althea Hall. (Actinocr. — Calathocr. — althea) Des\ New Sp. 



Grin., p. 1.% Photogr. PI. 4, fig. 13. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, 



Iowa. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 323 



*1861. Teleiocr. clivosus Hall. (Actinocr. clivostis) Bost. Journ Nat. Hist., p. 



274. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington. Iowa. 

 *1S61. Teleiocr. erodus Hall. (Actinocr.— Calathocr—erodus) Desc New Sp. 



Crin , p. 12; Meek and Worthen, Strotocr. (Dj, (ieol. Rrp. 111., ii, p. 190. 



Upper BurlinfTtnn limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 »1861. Teleiocr. insculptus Hill. (Actinocr.— Calathocr.—insculptus) Pes'-. 



New Sp. Crin., p. 12; Meek and Worthen, Strotocr. (B), Geol. Rep 111., v, 



p. 348. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1S61. Teleiocr. liratas Hall. (Actinocr. liratus) Supp. (ieol. Rep. Iowa, PI. 4, 



fig. 3; Meek and AVorthen. Strotocr. (B) liratus, fteol. Rrp. 111., ii, p. 190; 



Ibid., V, p. 355, fig. 2. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. subumbrosus Hall. Suppl. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 3. 

 *1860. Teleiocr. rudis Hall. (Actinocr. rudis) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 33. 



Upper Burlington limest. Burlington. Iowa. 

 *18fil. Teleiocr. tenuiradiatus Hall. (Actinocr. tenuiradiatus, not 1847= Pnlmn- 



cystites tenmradiatus.) Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 12: Meek and Worthen, 



Strotocr. (B) tenuiradiatus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 349. Upper Burlirgton 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1858. Teleiocr. umbrosus Hall. (Actinocr. umbrosus) Type of the genus. 



Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 590, PI. 11, figs. 3 a, b ; Meek and Worthen, 



Strotocr. (B) umbrosus, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 190; Ibid., v, p. 360, PI. 8, 



fig. 5. Upper Burlinston limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 .Syn. Actinocr. delicatus Meek and Worthen, 1869. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 156 : also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 343, PI. 8, fig. 2. 

 This is described from a very young specimen of this genus, and e.xbibits most 



remarkably all the characteristics of Actinocrinus. 



17. STEGANOCRINUS Meek and Worthen. 

 (PL 18, figs. 3, 4, 5.) 



1866. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 195. 



1868. Meek and Worthen. Ibid., ill, p. 475. 



1878. Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci, Phila., p. 243. 



1878. Zittel. (Subgenus of Actinocrinus.) Handb. der Palaeont., p. 370. 



Syn. Actinocrinus (in part) Sbumard, 1855, Geol. Rep. Missouri 



by Swallow, pt. ii, p. 189; Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, 



pp. 577, 582 ; Meek and Worthen, 18G0, Proc. Acad, Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 387. 



The relations of this genus with Actinocrinus and Teleiocrinus 

 have been fully discussed in our general remarks upon the family. 



Generic Diagnosis. — General form of the body like Actino- 

 crinus. The rays extended into long tubular appendages, which 

 bear the arms on both sides ; dome with subcentral anal tube ; 

 surface ornamented b}" radiating ridges passing from plate to 

 plate, and meeting in a small tubercle at the middle of each. 



Basals three, forming a low cup. Primary radials 3 X 5, large ; 

 the first much larger than the others, hexagonal and heptagonal ; 




324 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the second hexagonal, almost as high as wide ; the third axillary, 

 but smaller hy half or more than the second, sometimes forming 

 a part of the arm-like appendages, which in other species begin 

 with the secondary radials. The secondary radials consist of 

 1X2X5 plates in each ray ; sometimes both are axillary, and 

 as such divide the ray into two equal sections, of which each one 

 forms a separate tube, and gives off lateral arms from either side ; 

 in other cases only one is a bifurcating plate, which is the larger 

 of the two, resting upon the wider side of the primary radials, 

 while the other, which is smaller and obliquely given off, is 

 truncate above, and supports an arm. 



In the same manner other series of radials are given off from 

 all succeeding radial plates, on one side a bifurcating plate bear- 

 ing a higher order of radials, on the other a lateral arm, and this 

 alternately from opposite sides (PI. 18, fig. 3). The number of 

 radials is to some extent indefinite, they extend to almost the 

 height of the arras, which are long, and the ray itself terminates 

 finally in a short arm. All the radials are of the same form, and 

 nearl}'- the same size, decreasing very gradually in an upward 

 direction. They are wider than high, cuneate and alternately 

 arranged, with the shorter side abutting against the side of the 

 preceding arm, while the next arm is given off from the upper 

 oblique side. 



Arms long, of moderate thickness, constructed like those of 

 Actinocrinus, beginning with one or two cuneate pieces, which 

 soon turn into two series of alternate plates. Arm grooves deep ; 

 pinnules unknown. 



Interradials three or more, those of the calyx forming a con- 

 nection with the interradial plates in the dome. The posterior 

 side, like that of all other Actinocrinites, consisting of a single 

 special anal plate, which is in line with — and has the size of —the 

 first radials; it supports two plates in the second, and generally 

 three in the third series. 



Yault highly elevated to moderately convex, composed of a 

 variable number of pieces ; centre and proximal dome plates not 

 distinctly defined. The first radial dome plates, from which the 

 brachial appendages begin, are spiniferous, and so alternately is 

 one-half of the succeeding plates which cover the free rays. 

 The covering of these appendages consists of (two rows of plates, 

 side by side, a larger and a smaller one, which are so arranged 




I 



I 



1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 325 



that at each side of the ray the larger plates alternate with the 

 smaller ones, and the former abut laterally against an arm open- 

 ing. The appendages are very heavy, composed of strong nodose 

 plates ; their cross-section, as that of their inner passage, oval, 

 higher than wide (PI. 18, fig. 5). At each side of the base of each 

 arm, there is a respiratory (?) pore ; that of one side is located at 

 some distance from the arm openings, the other and smaller one 

 lies close to it. The pores are so arranged that the larger ones 

 stand a,t one side of the appendages in front, at the other behind 

 the arm with which the}' are connected. Similar pores are placed 

 beside the proximal arms, but these pass directly through the 

 main body. Anal tube long, subcentral, composed of nodose 

 pieces. Column round, of moderate size ; central canal of medium 

 width, pentalobate. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Steganocrinus, so far as known, is 

 restricted to the age of the Burlington limestone, and has been 

 found onlj^ in America. 



We recognize the following species : — 



I860. Steganocrinus araneolus Meek and Worth. (Actinocr. araneolns) Proc. 



Acad. Xat. Soi. Phila., p. 387 ; Steganocr. araneolus, 186t;, (jeol. Rep. HI., 



ii, p. 198, PI. 15, fig?. 1 a, b. Lovrer Burlington limest. Burlington. Iowa. 

 *185d. Steganocr. conoinnus Shumard. (Actinocr. concinnus) Swallow's Geol. 



Rep. Missouri, pt. ii, p. 189, PI. A, fig. 5 ; Meek and Worth., 1866, Actinocr. 



concinnus, Geol. Rep. 111., p. 200, PI. 15, figs. 9 a, b. Upper Burl ngton 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. validus Meek and Wortben, 1860, Proc. Acad. Xat Sci. Phila. 



p. 384. 

 1858. Steganocr. pentagonus Hall. Type of the genus. (Actinocr. pentagonusj 



Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 577, PI. 10, figs. 6 a, b ; Meek and Wortheo, 



1866, Steganocr. pentagonus, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 198; Ibid., 1868, iii, p. 



47-1, PI. 16, fig. 8. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. Steganocr. sculptus Hall. (Actinocr. sculptus— not Miller) Geol. Rep. Iowa, 



i, pt. ii, p. 582, PI. 10, figs. 11 a, b; Meek and Worthen, 1866, Steganocr. 



sculptus, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 198. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 



Iowa. 



18. AMPHOEACRINUS Austin. 



1848. Austin. Quart. Jouru. Geol. Soc. London, iv, p. 292. 

 1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 386. 



Not Roemer, 1855. Lethaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 250 = Agarico- 



erinus. 

 Not Hall, 1861. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 561 = Agaricocrinus. 

 Not Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 209 = Dorycrinus. 

 Syn. Amphora. Cumberland, 1826. Reliqu. Confeerv., p. 26. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus Phillips lin part), 1886. Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus Hall (in part), 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa. 




326 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Cumberland proposed in 1826 the name Amphora for two very 

 distinct species, wliicli were distinguished by him by numbers. 

 His species No. 1, represents a lobed species of Actinocrinus 

 Miller, while his No. 2 is Amphoracr. Gilbertsoni Austin. Cum- 

 berland's descriptions of the genus (?) Amphora, were evidently 

 taken from his first species, for he describes it as resembling in 

 outer form " a wine Amphora with five handles for suspension 

 and a central neck to pour from," which applies well only to PL 

 C, fi<'-. 5. This species must therefore be considered the type of 

 Amphora if taken in a generic sense, but being a species of 

 Actinocrinus, the name became a synonym, and Austin was 

 perfectl}' at liberty to remodel it into Amphoracrinus, or even 

 propose an entirely new name. Austin's Amphoracr. crassus and 

 A. granulosus, which were mentioned in connection with the 

 genus, have never been defined. Goldfuss, in 1848, used the 

 name in a specific sense, not being aware that Phillips had already, 

 in 1836, adopted for Cumberland's " ^mp/iora No. 2 " Miller's 

 MS. name " GilbertsonV^ 



Roemer and Hall have both confounded Amphoracrinus with 

 Agaricocrinus, with which the form of the body has a slight 

 resemblance, but from which it differs material!}^ in the arrange- 

 ment of plates ; in having the radials laterally extended ; in the 

 subcentral anal tube, and also in the arm structure. 



Meek and Worthen at first brought Amphoracrinus into con- 

 nection with Dorycrinus Roemer, from which it differs as much 

 as from Agaricocrinus. Dorycrinus has delicate arms, ai'ranged 

 in pairs, a comparatively deep calyx, and a lateral anal opening. 



Amphoracrinus is a somewhat aberrant form, but its closest 

 affinities are evidently with the ActinocrHnites, with which it 

 agrees in the lobed form of the body, in the general structure of 

 the vault, in the arrangement of the anal plates, and in the 

 position of the anal tube ; while in the depressed form of the 

 calyx it resembles the Agaricocrinites, and in the arms it is 

 somewhat like the Periechocrinites. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body higher than wide, decidedly lobed ; 

 symmetry bilateral. Calyx short, composed of comparatively few 

 plates, lower portions, up to arm bases, from saueer-shaped to 

 slightly convex, but never concave. Dome highly elevated, and 

 somewhat inflated, especially toward the posterior side, which is 

 extended into a subcentral or excentric anal tube. Surface of 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 327 



body plates, includiug dome, covered with peculiar granules or 

 indistinct wrinkles. 



Basals three, moderately large, forming together a shallow 

 hexagonal basin, the upper side without re-entering angles ; a low 

 rim borders the columnar facet. Primary radials 3X5; the first 

 wider than high, much narrower at their junction with the basals, 

 superior lateral sides short ; second radials generally shorter than 

 the first, but wider ; third radials wide, as high as the second ; the 

 second are arranged horizontall}^ to the vertical axis of the bodj^, 

 while the third sometimes take even a downward direction. In 

 the European species only the secondary radials assume that 

 position ; in American species the convexity of the calix does 

 not extend beyond the first radials. The upper radials bend so 

 abruptly outward, that only their lower corners come in contact 

 with the interradials, the plates themselves form the base of a 

 lobed lateral extension ; contrary to Agaricocrinus, in which they 

 are flattened out, and form a disk in connection with the adjoining 

 pieces. 



Secondarj' radials 1 X 10, either all bifurcating, or one side of 

 each ra}^ only. In the former case, each plate supports on each 

 of its sloping sides a tertiarj' radial, which in turn supports the 

 primary arms ; in the other, one arm is given off from a secondarj- 

 radial. The rays, to the base of the arms, are spread out hori- 

 zontally, and the arms curve upward very gradually ; this gives 

 to the specimen, with the arms attached, an unusually broad 

 appearance, its width and length being almost equal. Arms 

 cylindrical, strong, of nearly equal size to their full length, 

 divergent, simple or ramifying, composed of two series of very 

 narrow pieces, alternately arranged, rounded at the back, with 

 zigzag suture lines. In A. spinohrachialus Hall, in which the 

 arms on becoming free remain simple, some of the joints at each 

 side of the arm are extended into long lateral spines, which stand 

 out conspicuously from both sides of the arm bases. The lower 

 ones are short, but they increase in length upward until they 

 attain a length of one and one-half the width of the arm. The 

 spines are placed farther apart as they increase in size, the 

 distance being lengthened each time by one additional joint. In 

 species in which the arms divide, the joints are smooth, and the 

 bifurcation takes place from the double-jointed arms, as in the case 

 of Periechocrinus^ not from single plates as in Platycrinus, etc. 




328 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Interradials three, of moderate size, the two upper ones situated 

 within the sinus formed by the extended rays, Anals three to four 

 large ones, succeeded by additional smaller ones ; the first in line 

 with the first radials; the second series two, rarely three. In the 

 construction of the anal side, Amphoracrinus forms a link between 

 the Actinocrinites and Agaricocrinites. In this respect it is 

 interesting to observe that the second series of plates, within the 

 limits of the same species, has sometimes two, and sometimes 

 three plates, but wherever the third plate is present, it is narrower 

 and smaller, and touches the first anal but slightly; while when 

 absent, the plate above them falls in deeply between the two plates. 



Dome high, inflated, the interradial spaces depressed, the radial 

 portions formed into broad ridges, which increase in prominence 

 toward the arm bases. Central dome, and the four large proximal 

 pieces placed in contact with each other, large, and strongly 

 spiniferous (the spines in A. divergens Hall sometimes attain a 

 length of an inch and a-half, and are bi- or tri-digitate), the two 

 smaller proximal plates are separated by a wide, somewhat inflated 

 area, which supports an anal tube. The tube is located in the rear 

 of the central plate and is almost central, while the central plate 

 is pushed somewhat to the anterior side. The tube is constructed 

 of plates similar to those of the vault ; it is rather stout through- 

 out, but very short, its upper extremity rounded, with a small 

 subcentral anal opening, which is surrounded by plates and spines, 

 similar to those which surmount the vault at the base of the tube, 

 but on a smaller scale. The other plates of the dome are of nearly 

 equal size, their sui'face beautifully granulated. Inner floor of 

 the vault as in Actinocrinus^ deeply grooved along the radial 

 portions, and formed into closed galleries toward the arm bases. 



Column round, constructed alternately of larger and smaller 

 joints, whose lateral margins are sharply edged ; central canal 

 small. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Amphorocrinus occurs only in the 

 lower strata of the Subcarboniferous — not beyond the age of the 

 Lower Burlington limestone — both in America and Europe. 



We recognize the following species : — 



»1849 (?). Amphoracrinus atlas McCoy. (Aotinocr atlas) Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. 

 (ser. ii), vol. iii, p. 246; Roemer, 1865, Amphoracr. atlas, Lethsea Geogn. 

 (Ausg. 3), p. 250. Mount, limest. Holland, Engl. 

 Perhaps Syn. of Amphoraor. Gilbertsoni Austin. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 329 



1860. Amphoraor. divergens Hall. (Actinoor. divergens) Supp. Geol. Rep., Iowa, 

 p. 36.; Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 388, PI. 6, fig. 6. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



-%". Amphoraor . divergens var. multiramosus Meek and Worth., 1873. Geol. 

 Rep. 111., V, p. 389, PI. 6, fig. 6. 



Syn. Amphoraor. planobasilis Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 19, 

 PL 4, figs. 10, 11 ; Amphoraor. planobasilis Meek and Worth., 1873, Geol. 

 Rep. 111., V. p. 388. 



Si/n. Actinoor. quadrispinus White. Proe. Bost. Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 15; 

 Amphoraor. quadrispinus Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 388. 

 1821. Amphoraor. Gilbertsoni Miller (not de Koninck). Type of the genus.. Aoti- 

 nocr. Gilbertsoni (Philips, 1836, Geol. of Yorkshire, p. 206, PI. 4, fig. 19; 

 Austin, 1842, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., x, p. 109 ; Amphoraor. Gilbertsoni. 

 Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc. London, iv, p. 292 ; Bronn, 1860, Klassen d. Thier- 

 reichs, ii, PI. 28, fig. 2; Quenstedt, 1862, Handb. d. Petref., p. 619, PI. 54, 

 figs. 24 a, b. Subcarboniferous. Florence Court, Ireland. 



Syn. Amphora No. 2. Cumberland, 1826, Reliquiae Conservata, p. 36. 



Syn. Melocr. amphora Goldfuss, 1838. Nova Acta Ac. Leop., xix, p. 341. 



Syn. Aotinocr. amphora Portlock, 1843. Rep. Geol. Londonderry, PI. 20, 

 figs. 4 a, and 5 a, b; McCoy, 1844, Synops. Pal. Fo.ss. Ireland, p. 181. 

 1860. Amphoraor. spinohrachiatus Hall. (Aotinoor. spinobraohiatus) Supp. Geol. 

 Rep. Iowa, p. 6; Meek and Worthen, 1873. Amphoraor. spinobraohiatus, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 388, PI. 6, fig. 5. Lower Burlington limest. Burling- 

 ton, Iowa. 



St/n. Aotinocr. inflatus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 20, (not Aoti- 

 noor. (Amphoraor.) inflatus Hall, 1861 = Agaricoor. inflatus) ; Meek and 

 Worthen, 1873, Amphoraor. (?) inflatus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 388. Lower 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa 

 *1864. Amphoraor. viminalis Hall (Aotinocr. viminalis). 17th Rep. N. York St. 

 Cab. Nat. Higt., p. 64; Geol. Rep. Ohio, Paleont., ii, p. 165, PI. 11, figs. 12-14. 

 Waverly gr. Richfield, Ohio. 



19. PHYSETOCKINUS Meek and Worthen. 



(PI. 19, fig. 5). 



1869. Meek and Worthen (subgenus of Strotoeriuws) . Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Scl.Phila., p. 158. 

 1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., V, p. 349. 

 (Described by Hall under Actinocrinus.) 



Physetocrinus was proposed \)y Meek and "Worthen as a sub- 

 genus of Strotocrinus, on account of its close affinities with their 

 Strotocrinus Sect. A, both having a simple anal opening through 

 the vault. They thus separate Physetocrinus generically from 

 Actinocrinus, but they place Strotocrinus and our Teleiocrinus, 

 although these differ in the same characters, as mere sections under 

 the same generic form. Meek and Worthen evidently made the rim 

 the criterion for the generic division. This we acknowledge to be 




330 PROOEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



a good character, but it must not be used to unite two groups, 

 otherwise distinct, in which the rim has been independently 

 developed, by modifications under similar conditions. 



Physetocrinus diflEers from Actinocrinus in the form and con- 

 struction of the vault, in having no anal tube ; in having pores 

 along the radial portions of the dome, and in possessing no hook- 

 like projections along the pinnules. 



Generic Diagnosis, — Body large, wider than high ; calyx semi- 

 ovate, much higher than the dome, which is depressed, convex, or 

 almost straight ; plates ornamented with beautiful striiB and with 

 a deep indentation at each corner of the plates. 



Basals three, large, truncate below, projecting out from the 

 body, and forming together a low cup. Primary radials 3 X 5, of 

 nearly equal size, the upper supporting 1X2X5 comparatively 

 large secondary radials, which all bifurcate and support the two 

 main divisions of the Yay. These extend out from the body, and 

 throw off on both sides lateral branches from each plate as in 

 Actinocrinus, which on becoming free turn into arms. The five 

 main rays, their divisions, and every branch, are separated by 

 small pieces, which toward the arm bases form deep sinuses, 

 extending deeply into the vault, and giving to the surface that 

 corrugated aspect which is so characteristic of this genus. 



Interradial plates more numerous than in Actinocrinus; they 

 consist of one in the first, and two in each succeeding series, grad- 

 ually decreasing in size. The upper plates, which are minute, join 

 with the plates of the vault, to form the depi-essions between the 

 main rays. There are three, five, or more interaxillary pieces, 

 which, connecting with the vault, form the sinuses between the 

 main division of the ray, while one or more interbrachial plates, 

 in a similar manner, separate the lateral branches. 



Anal area somewhat wider, and the sinus between the adjoining 

 rays a little deeper than in the other four interradial fields ; it 

 is composed of one large special plate in line with the first radials, 

 two smaller plates in the second, and generally three plates in the 

 succeeding series. 



Yault composed of rather delicate, extremely small tuberculous 

 pieces, which are disposed apparently without order or regu- 

 larity ; only the proximal dome plates being distinguishable. 

 There are small braces on the inner side of the floor, and the 

 entire vault is bent so as to form, in connection with the braces, in 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 331 



the iuterradial and interbrachial spaces, natural ridges, which 

 at the inner side constitute grooves or open galleries for the 

 receiDtion of the ambulacral tubes. It is a remarkable feature of 

 this genus, that the inner floor within the grooves is lined with 

 indentations, which evidently formed passages through the vault, 

 perhaps in connection with the hydrospires, and either communi- 

 cated with the surrounding element or with soft appendages. 

 These indentations have been observed only in Physetocrinus and 

 Strotocrinus (not Teleiocrinus], but in several species, and hence 

 may be considered a good generic distinction. They are located 

 between the sutures along the middle series of plates, and are 

 best observed in natural casts (PI. 19, fig. 5), in which they form 

 little tubercles, which extend to the arm bases. 



Anus in form of a circular opening through the vault, surrounded 

 by very minute plates, which were somewhat flexible, for they bulge 

 out frequently into a small protuberance. 



Arms long, the sides somewhat angular ; constructed of two 

 series of pieces; pinnules composed of slender joints (without 

 hooks), closely arranged. 



Column like that of Actinocrinus. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Physetocrinus has been discovered 

 only in America, and in rocks of the age of the Burlington lime- 

 stone. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1S69. Physetocrinus asper Meek and Worthen. (Strotocr. — Physetoor. — asper) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 161 ; also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 351, PI. 7, fig. 

 1. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1869. Physetoor. dilatatus Meek. (Strotocr. — Physetocr. — dilatatus) Proc Acad. 

 Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 162; also Geal. Rep. 111., v, p. 36:!, PI. 10, fig. 6. Upper 

 Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1S5S. Physetocr. ornatus Hall. (Actinocr. ornatus) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 

 583, PI. 10, fig. 12; Meek and Worthen, 1873, Geol. Rep. III., v, p. 349, 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Io»a. 

 Syn. Actinocr. senarius Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 25. 

 1858. Physetocr. ventricosus Hall. Type of the genus. (Actinocr. ventricosus) 

 Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 595, PI. 11, figs. 6 a, b ; Meek and Worthen, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 349. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n. Actinocr. ventricosus var. internodius Hall, 1861. Desc. New Sp. 



Crin., p. 3; also Bost. Journ. Na'. Hist., p. 278. 

 Syn. Actinocr, var. reticulatus 1861. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 3. 

 Syn. Actinocr. var. cancellatus. Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 279. 

 S.n. Actinocr. subventricosus McChesney, 1860. New Pal. Foss., p. 21; 

 also 1S69, Chicago Acad. S;i., i, i)t. i, p. 16, PI. 4, fig. 6; Meek and Worthen, 

 Geol, Rep. 111., v, p. 349, 




332 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



20. STROTOCRINUS Meek and Worthcn. 



(PI. 18, figs. 1, 2.) 



1806. Meek and Worthen (in part, Sect. A). Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 188. 



1866. Meek and Woithen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 253. 



1869, Meek and Worthen. Ibid., p. 158. 



1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 347. 



1878. Zittel. (Subgenus of Actinocr.) Handb. d. Palaeont., p. 370. 



Syn, Actinocrinus (in part) Hall, 1860 and 61 ; Meek and Worthen, 



1861. 

 Syn. Calathocrinun 'Ksl\. (Subgenus of J.c<i»(?mwM8.) 1861, Desc. 

 New Sp. Crin., p. 13 (not von Meyer, 1848). 



The relations of this genus with Teleiocrinus — Meek and 

 Worthen's Strotocrinus B — have been sufficiently discussed, also 

 with Physetocrinns, and so we offer without remarks our 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Body extremely large, the lower 

 portions conical, the upper spread horizontally, forming a con- 

 tinuous rim surmounting the cone ; dome flat or slightly convex, 

 without anal tube ; surface of plates beautifully striated. 



Basals three, large, of equal size, forming a cup which is 

 truncate below. Primary radials 3X5; the first larger, higher 

 than wide ; second and third of nearly equal size. The third 

 radials give off 1X2X5 secondary radials, all bifurcating plates, 

 which form the bases of the two main divisions of the ray. 

 These and all succeeding plates are spread out horizontally, and 

 form a part of the rim. 



The succeeding orders of radials are composed of 1 X 2 plates 

 to each main division of the ray, one of them alwa^^s axillary, the 

 other truncate above. The former gives off the next number of 

 radials, while the latter is succeeded by a number of fixed arm 

 plates which form lateral branches and give off finally the free arms. 

 The radials are so arranged that in each succeeding order, and 

 these are numerous, the bifurcating plate is placed always to the 

 opposite side, so that the branches are given off alternately from 

 opposite sides like pinnules. The two main trunks of each ray 

 extend in length beyond the branches, and as both, the main trunks 

 and branches, are marked along the median line by a conspicuous 

 ridge or elevation, passing from plate to plate, the branching of 

 the rays in the rim is most beautifully indicated. In the forma- 

 tion of the rim, the interradial and interaxillary plates also con- 

 tribute, and these extend frequently to near the free arm bases. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 333 



The lateral branches either abut against each other or are partly 

 separated by small pieces, which, as we suggested, are rudiments 

 of earl}"^ pinnules. 



Interradials, anals, and interaxillary plates arranged as in the 

 preceding genus, but they are more numerous, and, contrary to 

 Teleiocrinus, extend far into the rim. 



Yault depressed, convex or more frequently flat, and only near 

 the arm bases somewhat rounded, the spaces along the ten main 

 divisions somewhat elevated above the general plane. The disk 

 is paved by many hundreds of small polygonal pieces, which de- 

 crease in size toward the arms, and which at the outer points of 

 the Ta,ys become almost microscopic. The apical plates are larger, 

 and are separated from each other, but not otherwise distinguished^ 

 from the other plates, and hence are not easily identified. 



Anus in form of a simple opening through the vault. The 

 inner floor of the vault is constructed similar to that of Physeto- 

 crinus, and has similar indentations (pores?) along the grooves; 

 but the divisions of the ray, within the rim, are separated as in 

 Teleiocrinus by partitions, and thus are formed into regular ducts, 

 which diverge until there is a separate passage to each ray. Arm 

 openings laterally arranged around the rim, each one with a 

 respiratory(?) pore aside of it. Arms long, comparatively thin, 

 not bifurcating in their free state ; pinnules long, composed of 

 slender joints. 



Column round, not large in proportion to the size of the speci- 

 men, without external rips or thickened processes ; central canal 

 of medium size, pentagonal. 



Geological Position, etc. — Strotocrinus seems to be limited to 

 the Subcarboniferous of the Mississippi valle}', and is here found 

 onlj^ in a small belt at the middle portion of the Upper Burlington 

 limestone, where it seems to have floiirished in great pi'ofusion, 

 but none reached up to the Keokuk Transition bed.^ The two or 

 three species of this genus belong to the largest and most beau- 

 tiful forms of the Palseocrinoidea, the body without arms attains 

 sometimes a height of five inches by six inches width along the 



^ The species which S. A. Miller describes from Bloomfleld, Mo., under 

 Strotocr. Bloomfieldensis is from cherty layers of the Upper Burlington, 

 and not from the Keokuk limestone ; we take it to be a synonym of Strotocr. 

 regalis until specimens showing the test prove the contrary, a diagnosis 

 based upon the internal cast only, has in our opinion very little value. 




334 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



rim, the latter spread out an inch and more all around, while the 

 main branches reach a length of two inches and a-half. 

 We place here the following species : — 



1859. Strotocrinus glyptus Hall. (Actinocr. glyptus) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 2 ; 



Meek and Worthen, Strotocr. glyptus (Sect. A), Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 190. 



Upper Burlington limestone. Burlington, Iowa. This is not a Syn. of Ac- 



tinoor. erodus Hall as supposed by Meek and Worthen. 

 1869. Strotocr. perumbrosus Hall. (Actinocr. perumbrosus). Supp. Geol. Rep. 



Iowa, p. 7; Meek and Worthen, Strotocr. perumbrosus (Sect. A), (4eol. Rep. 



111., ii, p. 190; also Ibid., v, p. .S67, PI. 8, fig. 4. Upper Burlington lime.«t. 



Burlington, Iowa. This is probably a Syn. of Strotocr. regalis. 

 1869. Strotocr. regalis Hall. (Actinocr. regalis) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. S ; 



Meek and Worthen, 1866, Strotocr. regalis, Geol Rep. 111. it, p. 192. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/ii. Actinocr. speciosus Meek and Worthen, 1860, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philn., 



p. .386. (Meek acknowledged it to be a Syn. of Strotocrinus regalis in 



1866). 

 Syn. Strotocr. Bloomfieldensis S. A. Miller, 1879, Jour. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 



Hist, vol. ii, PI. 16, fig. 6. 



21. GENN.a:OCRINUS. Nov. Gen. 

 {yevvaJoc, of noble origin, nplvov, a lily). 



We propose the above name for a little group of Crinoids from 

 the Upper Devonian, which cannot be satisfactorily referred to 

 an}'^ established genus. In their general construction they closely 

 resemble Actinocrinus and Physetocrinus, but differ from both, 

 and in fact from all Actinocrinites, in the arrangement of the anal 

 plates. The anal area has in the second series, like all other Ac- 

 tinocrinidfB, previous to the Subcarboniferous, three plates in 

 place of two, agreeing therein with the Batocrinites, from which 

 they differ, however, in the much greater number both of anal and 

 interradial plates, the different arrangement of these plates, 

 which form an unbroken line with the interradial vault pieces, the 

 presence of interaxillaries, the strongly lobed form of the body, 

 the mode of bifurcation, and in other characters. It is possible 

 when the construction of the vault and arms are better known, 

 that Gennseocrinus should be placed subgenerically either under 

 Actinocrinus or Physefocrimis. 



Generic Diagnosis — General form of body wider than high, 

 lobed at the arm regions ; calyx beautifully striated, the higher 

 radials formed into ridges and resembling fixed arms ; vault low 

 hemispherical, composed of small, spiniferous or nodose plates. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 335 



Basals three, short, with a tripartite rim formed by the projec- 

 tion of the lower margin of the plates. Primary raclials 3x5, 

 of nearl}^ similar form but decreasing in size upward. The third 

 radial gives off 1 X 10 secondary radials, and these form the two 

 main trunks, of which each one gives off, alternately throughout 

 all the bifurcations, and from every first joint, an axillary, and 

 to the opposite side a fixed arm plate, the one supporting the 

 next order of radials, the other being succeeded by additional 

 arm plates, which on becoming free, pass into a simple arm. 



Interradials numerous, from five to seven or more, the second 

 resting between the second and third primar}^ radials, the upper 

 ones being in contact with the interradial plates. The space between 

 the rays is wide, deeply depressed, especially at the posterior 

 side, and this depression extends to the vault. Anal area very 

 wide, the first plate in line with the first radials, and of their 

 size. There are two plates in the second range, three or four 

 in the third, with a large number of small pieces above, which 

 imperceptibl}' connect with the plates of the vault. 



Interaxillary plates one to three. Yault depressed its radial 

 portions formed into ridges or lobes, which rapidly increase in 

 prominence toward the arm regions. It is composed of moder- 

 ately small, apparently irregularly arranged pieces, which are 

 more or less spiniferous. 



Anus excentric, probably in form of a simple opening through 

 the vault. Arms unknown. 



Geological Position^ etc — Gennseocrinus is restricted to the 

 Hamilton group of America.. 



We place here the following species : — 



*1S62. Gennaeoorinris calypso Hall. (Actinocr. calypso) 15th Rep. N. York, St. 



Cah. Nat. Hist., p. 133. Hamilton gr. Western N. Y. 

 »1861. Gennaeoor Cassedayi Lyon, (Actinocr. Cassedayi) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 



Phila., p. 410, PI. 4, figs. 3, 3a. Encrinal limesit. Near Lousville, Ky. 

 *1862. Gennseocr. caulioulus Hall. (Actinocr. cauliculus) loth Rep. N. York. 



St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 132. Hamilton gr. Western N. York. 

 *1862. Gennseocr. eucharis Hall. (Actinocr. eucharis) 15th Rep. N. York, St. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 130. Hamilton gr. AVestern N. York. 

 *I860. Gennseocr. Kentuckiensis Shumard. Type of the genus. (Actinocr Ken- 



tuckiensis) Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts. (ser. 2), vol. 28, Septbr. ISoi), p. 238, 



Cat. Pal. Foss., p. 345. Lower part of Hamilton gr. Beargrass Quarries, 



near Louisville, Ky. 

 Syn. Actinocr. cornigerns Lyon & Cass., 1859. (not Hall, 1858). 

 *1862. Gennaeoor. nyssa Hall. (Actinocr. nyssa). 15th Rep. N. York. St. Cab. 



Nat. Hist., p. 129. Hamilton gr. Western N. York. 




336 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



*18C2(?) Gennseoer. pooillum Hall. (Aotinocr. pocillum). 15th Rep. N.York. 

 St, Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 134. Hamilton gr. Western N. York. (Thid 

 speoiea probably belongs to some other gironp.) 



/. Batocrinites.. 



22. BATOCRINUS Casseday. 



(PI. 18, fig. 8 and PI. 19, fig. 2). 



1854. Casseday. Deutsche Zeitschr. d. Greol. Geaellsch., vi, p. 237. 

 1857. Pictet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 324. 



1865. Meek and "Worthen (Swbgen. Actinocr). Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., 



Phila., p. 153. 



1866. Meek and Worthen (Subgenus of Actinocr.). Geol, Rep., 111., ii, p. 



150. 

 1869. Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 350. 

 1873. Meek and Worthen. Geol. Rep., 111., v, p. 364. 



1878. Wachsm and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 329. 



1879. Zittel (Subgenus of ^c^i/iocr). Handb. Palseont,,,p. 370. 



Syn. Actinocrinua (in part), Shumard, Hall, White, McChesney, 



Meek and Worthen (prior to 1865). 

 Syn. Uperoerinus. Meek and Worthen, 1865 (Subgenus of Bato- 



crinus. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 153. 



The generic distinctions between Batocrinus and Actinocrinus 

 have been fully discussed in our remarks upon Actinocrinus, but 

 it remains yet to note the somewhat different mode in which the 

 arms increase in the two groups. We describe below two new 

 species of Batocrinus and three of Eretmocrinus, from which it 

 appears that in these genera, and in the Batocrinites generally, 

 the increase of arms, from one species to another, is not gradually, 

 by the addition of a single arm to each ray, as in the case of 

 Actinocrinus, but by duplicating the entire number of arms 

 throughout the species. 



Meek and Worthen in 1866, in adopting Batocrinus as a genus, 

 separated it into subgenera, and again subdivided the typical 

 form into two sections : " A, species in which the arm openings 

 are directed outward ; B, in which they are directed upwards, 

 and arranged, more or less, into groups." The position of these 

 openings had evidently no important bearing upon the general 

 structure of the crinoid, only that in the former the ambulacral 

 passages entered horizontally, in the others obliquely, and this 

 difference is caused by the greater or less degree of prominence 

 developed in the uppermost ring of radials. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PniLADELPHIA. 337 



The name Uperocrinui^^ in a subgeneric sense, was proposed by 

 Meek and Worthen for species witli a narrow calyx, drawn out so 

 as to form a kind of handle for the upper portions, but was given 

 up afterwards. 



Generic Diagnosis. — General form of body biturbinate, wheel- 

 shaped, or globose ; calyx and vault of a similar form, the former 

 composed of smooth, slightl}^ convex to strongly nodose plates, 

 scarcely ever striated ; the dome consisting of convex or tuber- 

 culous pieces, with a strong, almost central anal tube. Symmetry 

 of calyx bilateral. 



Basals three, equal, not \ery high, forming an extended rim 

 with a concavity for the reception of the column. Primary radials 

 3X5; the first hexagonal or heptagonal, larger than the second 

 and third combined ; the second quadrangular, linear, always 

 narrower than the first, but 3'et twice or three times wider than 

 high, sometimes altogether anchylosed with the third ; the third 

 pentangular, short, the lower lateral sides abruptly spreading and 

 giving a greater width to the median portions, the upper sides 

 supporting the higher radials. Secondary radials 2 X 10, very 

 wide, as large as the primary ones ; those of the second series 

 bifurcating. The anterior ray has sometimes but two or three 

 arms, this is frequently accidental, but in some species the rule. 

 Tertiary radials 2 X 2 X 10, narrower than the secondary, 

 supporting the arms. 



In some species the posterior rays support additional plates in 

 the body, but only in the division next to the. anal area, this side 

 sometimes having one, two or three additional arms, while the 

 opposite division retains the usual number of four. The upper 

 row of plates is at the outer face truncated for the reception of 

 the arms, their upper sides being notched along the median 

 portions for the arm passages. This notch is joined by a similar 

 notch in the corresponding plates of the dome, which, combined 

 with the other, forms an arm opening (PI. 19 , fig. 2, and PI. 18, 

 fig. 8) ; the opening is oval in form, longer than wide, resting 

 within the centre of a small concavity. The part which extends 

 into the vault, follows the lateral edges of a tertiary radial dome 

 plate. The opposite side of the radial is likewise excavated to 

 receive a respiratory (?) pore, which is enclosed on the other side 

 by an adjoining interradial or interbrachial piece. Hence the 

 two openings are separated by the tertiarv radial dome plates, . 



23 




338 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



•whose width varies in ditferent si)eeies, and according to the 

 position which the arm occupies within the ray (PI. 18, fig. 8). 

 Whenever the respiratory (?) pore is in connection with the arms 

 of the inner part of the ray, it is placed closer to the arm opening 

 than pores whicli are placed toward the outer side. The respiratory 

 (?) pores in the Batocrinites are exceptionally large, sometimes 

 attaining a width equal to one-third that of the arm opening. 

 Their connection with the inner cavity has been explained 

 elsewhere. 



The interradials of the calyx are not numerous, varying from 

 one to four or five, but rarely exceeding three. The first very large, 

 polj'gonal, nearly as large as the primarj^ radials ; it rests between 

 the upper edges of the first radials, between the second, and 

 against the lower sloping edges of the third, and is followed by 

 two or three ver^' much smaller pieces. The anal area has one 

 plate in line with the first radials, of about their size ; there are 

 three plates in the second series, and a few more small pieces 

 above. None of the plates of the interradial or anal series connect 

 with the dome, from which the interradial area of the calyx is 

 separated by the tertiary radials, which meet all around laterally. 

 There are no interaxillary plates, except in the case of B. piano- 

 discus and occasionally in B. trochiscus, in which the arm regions 

 are spread out in width to three times the height of the body. 

 This species has also a greater number of interradials. 



Vault elevated, composed of comparatively- large and heavy 

 pieces, of nearly equal size, even the apical plates, with the excep- 

 tion of the central plate, being but little larger than the rest. The 

 centre piece and the proximal dome plates are much crowded 

 toward the anterior side, owing to the nearlj^ central anal tube, of 

 which, on that side, the large central plate forms the base. The 

 tube is constructed of similar plates as the vault, and very long, 

 sometimes extending more than twice the length of the arms 

 beyond their tips, it is very straight in all cases, and tapers 

 graduall}' almost to a point, with a narrow passage at the upper 

 end. 



Arms fi'om eighteen to twenty-six, or thirt3'-six to fort}', either 

 in pairs or single from each arm opening, round, very short, of 

 medium size and equal width throughout their length. From the 

 body up, they are composed of two series of alternate pieces, and 

 in species which have the double arm structui-e, the first of these 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3S9 



joints, without increasing in heiglit, gives off, in place of the first 

 pinnule in the other species, a second arm, whicli passes into the 

 same arm opening as its companion. Pinnules composed of 

 slender joints, closely attached laterall}^ their sides flattened, 

 their depth greater than tlieir width, with a deep ventral furrow 

 covered bj- small plates. 



Column round, composed of rather large joints with more or 

 less angular edges ; perforation of moderate size, pentangular. 



Geological Position, etc. — Batocrinus is strictly a Subcarbon- 

 iferous form. It is exclusively an American genus, and embraces 

 the last survivors of the Actinocrinidse. 



We place here the following species : — 



*1?60. Batocrinus aequibrachiatns McChesney. (Actinocr. aequibrachiatus) 



New Pal. Foss., p. 25: al?o Chicago Acad. Sci , 1867, p. 18; Meek and 



Wortbcn, 1873, Batoor. aequibrachiatus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. asteriscas Meek and Worthen, 1860. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 385 ; also 1866, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 207, PI. 15, figs. 8 a, b, c ; 



also 1873, Batocr. asteriscus. Ibid., v, p. 368. 

 .S'yn. .Actinocr. aequibraobiatus var. alatus Hall. Desc. New Spec. Crin.. 



1861; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 263, Pbotogr. PI. 3, figs. 21-23. 

 1858. Batocr. aequalis Hall. (Actinocr. aeqnalis) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 



592, PI. 11, figs. 4 a, b: Meek and Worthen, 1873, Batocr. aequalis, Geol. 



Rep. 111., V, p. 367. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. doris Hall, 1861. Desc. New Sp. Crin,, p. 15; Meek and 



Worthen, 1873, Batocr. doris, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. 

 *1860. Batocr. andrewsianns McChesney. (Actinocr. andrewsianus) New Pal. 



Foss., p. 27: also 1867, Chicago Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 20, PI. 6, fig. 5. Upper 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1S58. Batocr. biturbinatus Hall. (Actinocr. bitu^binatus) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i. 



pt. ii, p. 616, PI. 16, figs. 5, 6, a, b, c; Meek and Worthen, Geol. Rep. Ill , v, 



p. 367. Keokuk limest. Illinois and Iowa. 

 1860. Batocr. calycnlus Hall. (Actinocr. calyculus) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 



55, PI. 1, figs. 12 a, h, c; Meek and Wor'b., 1873, Batocr. calyculus, Geol. 



Rep. 111., V, p. 367. Warsaw limest. Spurgeon Hills, Ind. 

 Syn. Batocr. calyculus var. hardinensis Meek and Worth., 1866. Proe. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 253. 

 We doubt that the type specimen came from the St. Louis limes>t., it would be 



the only example of an Actinocrinoid being found beyond the Warsaw 



limest. 

 «1860. Batocr. Caroli Hall. (Actinocr. Caroli) Supp. Gol. Rep; Iowa, p. 54, PI. 1^ 



fig. 11. Warsaw limest. Warsaw, 111. 

 1869. Batocr. Cassedayanus Meek and AVorth. Proc. Acad.: Nat. Sci. Phila , p. 



353; Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 370, PL 5, fig. 1. Lower Burlington limt-st. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 




340 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1855. Batoor. Christyi Shum. (not Hall, 1863 = Periechocr. Ohrintyi.) Figurd in 

 Christy's letters on Geol., PI. 1, figs. 1, 2; Shumard, Aotinocr. Christyi, 

 Geol. Rep. Missouri by Swallow, pt. ii, p. 191, PI. A, fig. 3 ; Meek and Worth., 

 1873, Batoor. Christyi, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367, PI. v, figs. 4 a, b ; Wachsm. 

 and Spr., IS78, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 231. Upper Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Batoor. clypeatns Hall. (Aotinocr. clypeatus) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 



12, PI. .3, fig. 12; Meek and Worth., 1867, Batoor. olypeaius, Geol. Rep. 



111., ii, p. 150. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa 

 Syii. Aotinocr. inornatus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 24; Meek 



and Worth., Batoor. inornatus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. 

 Syn Aotinocr. papillatus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 29, PI. 3, 



figs. 10, 11 ; Meek and Worth., Batocr. papillatus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. 

 1858. Batocr. disooideus Hall. (Aotinocr. discoideus) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, 



p. 594; Meek and Worth., 1867, Aotinocr. (Batocr.) discoideus, Geol. Rep. 



111., ii, p. 150, and 1873, BatOCr. discoideus, Ibid., v, p. 367. Lower Bur- 

 lington liraest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Aotinocr. formosus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 30 ; Meek 



and Worth., 1873, Batocr. formosus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. 

 Syn. Actinoor. subaequalis McChesney, 1860. Desc. Pal. Foss , p. 17; also 



1867, Chicago Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 13, PI 5, fig. 7; Meek and Worth., BatOCr. 



subaequalis, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. 



1861. Batocr. dodecadactylus Meek and Worth, (Actinocr. dodecadaotylus) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 131, and 1866, Batoor. dodecadactylus, Geol. 

 Rep. 111., ii, p. 205, PI. 15, figs. 3 a, b, c, and Ibid., v, p. 368. Upper Bur- 

 lington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 This species forms an exception to the rule in having apparently only twelve 

 arms. It may possibly be a young B. rotundus, and that some of the arms 

 branch off in the free state. 



*1860. Batocr. euconus Meek and Worth. (Aotinocr. — AUoprosallocr. — euconus) 

 Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 164, changed in 1873 to Batocrinus (AUo- 

 prosaUoorinus euconus), Geol. Rep. HI., v, p. 368. Warsaw limest. Spur- 

 geon Hills, Ind. 



1860. Batocr. Hageri McChesney. (Aotinocr. Hageri) New Pal. Foss , p. 28; also 

 1867, Chicago Acad. Nat. Sci., p. 21, PI. 4, fig. 1 ; Meek and Worth, 1873, 

 Batocr. Hageri, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. Upper Burlington limest. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 



1804. Batocr. ioosidactylus Casseday. (Type of the genus.) Deutsche Gtol. 

 Gesellsehaft, vi, p. 238; Meek and Worth., 1867, Aotinocr. (Batocr.) ioosi- 

 dactylus, Geol. Rep, 111., v, 367. Warsaw limest. Spurgcon Hills, Ind. 



*1869. Batoor. Indiansenais Lyon and Cass. (Actinocr, Indianaensis) Am. Journ. 

 Sci. and Arts, vol. 29, p. 75; Meek and Worth , 1873, Actinocr, Ind^an- 

 aensis, Geol. Rfp. 111., v, p. 341. Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



1854. Batocr. irregularis Casseday. Deutsche Geol. Gesellsehaft, vi, p. 238; Meek 

 and Worthen, 1867, Geol. Rep. III., ii, p. 150; also 1873. Ibid., v, p. 367. 

 Warsaw limest. Spurgeon Hills, Ind. 



1860. Batocr. lagunculus Halt. (Aotinocr. lagunculu?) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, 

 J). 41 ; Meek and Worth., Batoor. lagunculus, Geol. Rep. Ill , v, 367. Keo- 

 kuk limest. Iowa and Illinois. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PEnLADELPHTA. 341 



*1S61. Batoor. laura Hall (Actinoor. laura). Dejcr. New Sp. Crin., p. 15. Upper 

 Burlington liinest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Batocr. lepidus Hall (Actinoor. lepidus). Supp. Geol. Eep. Iowa. p. 32; 

 Meek and Wor h. Batoor. lepidus, Geol. R«p. 111., v, p. 367. Lower Bur- 

 lington limcst. Burlington, Iowa. 



1858. (?). Batocr. longirostris Hall. (Actinoor. longirostris) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, 

 pt. ii, p. 589, PI, 11, figs. 2, 4 c, d; Meek and Worth., Batocr. longirostris, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., V, p. 367. Lower Burl, limest. Burlington, Iowa. This species 

 shows a marked departure from the characters of the genus and its reference 

 is not without doubt. 



1860. Batocr. mundulus Hall. (Actinoor mundulust Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 39; 

 Meek and Worth., BatOCr. mundulus, Ge»\. Rep. Ill,, v, p. 367. Keokuk 

 limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 



1850. Batocr. Nashvillae Troost. (Actinoor. Nashvillae) Cat. Crin. Tenn. (Proc. 

 Am. Assoc, for Advanc. of Sci., p. 60); Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, 

 p. 609, PI. 15, fig. 4, and PI. 16, figs. 4 a, b ; Wachsm. and Spr. 1878, Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 234; Meek ani Worth., Batocr. Nashvillae, Geol. 

 Rep. 111., V, p. 368. Keokuk limest. Iowa, Illinois, Missouri, Tennessee and 

 Kentucky. 

 Var. subtractus White. (Actinocr. Nashvillae var. subtractus), Proc. Bost. 

 Soc. Nat. Hist., ix, p. 16. Upper Burlington limest. and Keokuk Transition 

 beds. 



1865. Batocr. pistilliformis Meek and Worth. CBatocr, — Tlperocr. — pistilliformis), 

 Proc. Acal. Nat. Sc'. Phila., p. 153; also 1866, Actinocr. (Batocr. C. 

 Tlperocr ) pistilliformis, Geol. Kep. 111., ii, p. 161, PI. 11, fig. 8; Ibid., 1873, 

 V, p. 367. The original 1= said to be obtained from the Kinderhook gr. of 

 Marion Co., 111., but more probably from the Burlington limest., and that it is 

 a .S'y-i. of B. pyriformis. 

 Syn. Actinocr. pyriformis var. rudis Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad, Na*. Sci. 

 Phila. (not A. rudis Hall, 1860). 



1865. Batocr. pistillus Meek and Worth. (Actinocr — Uperoor. — pistillus) Proc. 

 Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 152; also 1868, Actinocr. — Batocr, — pistillus, 

 Geol. Rep. 111., iii, p. 472, PI. 16, figs. 4 a, b ; 1873, BatOCr, pistillus. 

 Ibid., V, p. 367. Upper Burl. lime<t. Burlington, Iowa. 



I860. Batocr. planodiscus Hall. (Actinocr. planodiscus) Supp. Geol. Rep. lown, 

 p. 45 ; Meek »nd Worth., 1873, BatOCr. planodiscus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367; 

 Wachsm. and Spr., 1878, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Pbili., p. 233. Keokuk 

 and Burlington Transition bed and Lower Keokuk liu.e-t. Nauvoo, 111., and 

 Keokuk rapids. 



18»5. Batocr. pyriformis Shumard (Actinocr. pyriformis. not Ad. Roemer, 1856). 

 Geol. Rep. Missouri by Swallow, p*. ii, p. 192, PI A, figs. 6 a, b ; Meek and 

 Worth., 1865, Actinocr. — Tlperocr.— pyriformis. Proc Acad. Nat. Sci. 

 Phila., p. 153; also 1873 (Batocr. pyriformis). Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 375, 

 PI. 5, fig. 5, and Ibid., ii, p. 150 ; Wachsm. and Spr., 1878, Proc. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci. Phila., p. 233. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa, and Illi- 

 nois and Missouri. 



1869. Batocr. quasillus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 352 ; 

 also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 369 PI. 5, fig. 2. Lower Burlingon limest. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 




342 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1855. Batoor. rotundas Yandell and Shutn. (Figured in Christy's letters on Geology, 



184.S, as Actinocriiiit'g). Yand. and Shum., Geol. Rep. Missuuri by Swallow, 



pt. ii, p. 191, PI. A, figs. 2 a, b; Meek and Worth., 1873, Batocr. rotundus. 



(iool. Rep. 111., V, p. .367. The leading fossil of the Upper Burlington liuiest. 



Boone an I Marion Cos., Mo., Quincy and Oquaka, III., Burlington, Iowa. 



This is a somewhat variable species ; it sometimes has a good sized anal 'ube, 



while in other cases this seems to be modified into a simple vault opening; 



the number of arms var es from eigbtefn to twenty-two. 

 Sijii. Actinocr. oblatus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 38. (This species 



((iffers only in having twenty-two arms). 

 1860. Batocr. similis Hall. (Actinocr. similis) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 40; Meek 



and Worth., 1873, Batocr. similis, Geol Rep. 111., v, p. 367. Keokuk limest. 



Iowa and Illinois. 

 .'^^li. Actinocr. clavigerus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 44 ; Mek 



and Worth., 1867, Batocr. clavigerus, Geol. Rep. III., v, p. 367. 

 1860. Batocr. sinuosus Hall. (Actinocr. sinuosus) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 27, 



Photogr. PI. 3, figs. 8, 9 ; Meek and Worth., 1873, Batocr. sinuosus. Geol. 



Rep. 111., V, p. 3C8. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, lowii. 

 *1860. Batocr. steropes Hall. (Actinocr. steropes) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 43. 



Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 1869. Batocr. trochiscus Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad., p. 354; 



Geol. Rep. III., v, p. 372, PI. 5, fig. 6. Burlington and Keokuk Transition 



Bed. Iowa and 111. (A more mature stage of B. Christyi). 

 1868. Batocr turbinatus Hall. (Actinocr. turbinatus) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, 



p. 587, PI. 11, fig. 1 ; Meek and Worth., 1873, Batocr. turbinatus, Geol. Rep. 



111., v, p. 367. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. Syn. Batocr. 



turbinatus, var. elegans Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 588, PI. 11, 



fig. 5. 

 *1857. Batocr. Yandelli Shumard. (Actinoc. Yandelli) Trans. St. Louis, Acad, i, 



p. 9, PI. 1, figs. 4 a, b; Meek and Worth. (Actinocr. Sect. A.), Geol. Rep. 



111., V, p. 341. Keokuk limest. Bottom mould Knob, Jeflerson Co., Ky. 

 *1880. Batocr. Wacbsmuthi White. (Actinocr. Wachsmuthi. not A. Wachsmuthi, 



1862 = Actinocr. scitulus). Author's Edit, from the 12th Annual Rep. of 



U. S. Geol. Surv. by Hayden, p. 162, PI. 40, figs. 1 a, b ; Geol. Rep. Ind. 



for 1879-80, p. 142, PI. 7, fig. 6. Keokuk limest. Crawfordsville, Ind. 



We add the following new species : — 



Batocrinus Lovei, Wa,chsm. and Spr. 



Form of body wheel-shaped, as wide as high, running nearly to 

 a point at each pole. Plates of the calyx smooth, without orna- 

 mentation, those of the dome convex. Basals forming a conical 

 cup, slightly truncate below. Radials 3X5; the first larger than 

 both the others combined ; second twice as wide as high ; the 

 third with obtuse upper angles. There are two rows of two plates 

 in the two succeeding orders, those of the third order larger than 

 those of the second, and the outer plates wider than the inner 

 ones. Each ray has four arm openings — except the anterior which 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 343 



has but two — the outer ones of the ray, and those between the 

 main divisions are placed a little farther apart, but are not 

 separated by any sinus. Each opening gives off a single arm, 

 which is short, and from the base up composed of two series of 

 plates. Near each arm opening, there is a conspicuous respira- 

 tory (?) pore, which like the arm opening is directed laterally. 



Interradials two to three, the first large ; anals one, three and 

 three. Vault lower by one-third to one-half than the calyx ; 

 apical dome plates somewhat prominent ; interradial spaces a little 

 depressed. Ventral tube perfectly central, extending far beyond 

 the tips of the arms. Column comparatively slender. 



This species agrees in every particular with B. Chrisfyi, except 

 it generall}' is smaller, and it has a single arm in place of two 

 from each arm opening. It also differs in the more depressed 

 form of the vault, and in being found only at the base of the 

 Upper Burlington limestone ; while B. Christyi struggles through 

 to the Burlington and Keokuk Transition beds. 



Locality and Position. — Base of Upper Burlington limest. Sub- 

 carb. Burlington, Iowa. 



This species is named in honor of Mr. James Love of Burling- 

 ton, an excellent collector, and an ardent lover of Crinoids. 



-Batocrinus WMlei Wachsm. and Spr., n. fp. 



Body small, globose, a little wider than high, height of calyx 

 and dome equal, both with convex sides ; the arm bases slightly 

 projecting. Surface of plates ornamented, the median line of all 

 radials up to the arm bases marked by a ridge ; other less dis- 

 tinct elevations diverge from the centre of the first interradial 

 plates, which continue to the radials, but without uniting with the 

 radial ridges. 



Base short, truncate, forming an elevated ring around the 

 column. First primary radial almost as large as second and third 

 together and considerably wider, the upper sloping sides com- 

 parativel}" long ; the second fully as high as the third and nearly 

 as wide. 



Secondary radials 2X10, the upper largest, with two shorter 

 pieces in the next order, making four arm openings in four of the 

 rays, the anterior ray has no tertiar}^ radials and only two open- 

 ings in all. Each arm opening supports a single arm, which, from 

 the second plate up, is constructed of two series of pieces alter- 

 nately arranged. Arms nearly round, of medium thickness and 




344 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



length, oradually tapering to their tips. Pinnules very long, 

 comi)osed of joints three times longer than wide, and perfectly 

 smooth. Interradials two to three, the first much larger than all 

 others combined, and fully as large as the first radials. Anal area 

 composed of one, three and two pieces, with a depression between 

 the arm bases. Vault constructed of tuberculous pieces of nearly 

 equal size. Anal tube long, extended beyond the arms, con- 

 structed of convex plates, which are interspersed all the way up 

 to the top, with strongly nodose or slightly spiniferous pieces. 

 Column slender, composed of alternately larger and smaller joints, 

 the larger ones with rounded edges. 



Tliis species is interesting for its close affinities with B. Indi- 

 anaensis from Crawfordsville, with which it agrees in all points 

 except that B. Whitei is smaller by one-half, and has a single arm 

 proceeding from each arm opening ; while B. Indiansensis has 

 always two as in the case of B. Lovei and B. Christyi. 



We take pleasure in naming this species in honor of Dr. C. A. 

 White of the National Museum, to whom we are indebted for 

 many favors. 



Geological Position, etc. — This species occurs in considerable 

 quantities at Bono, Ind., but is rare at Canton and Edwardsville, 

 Ind. ; it is found in shaly layers, probably equivalent to the lower 

 l)art of the Keokuk group. 



2.;. EEETMOCRINITS Lyon and Casseday. 



1859. Lyon and Cass. Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts (ser, 2), vol. 28, p. 241. 

 1866. Shumard. (Subgen. ^?) o{ Actinocr.) Cat. Pal. Foss., pt. 1, p. 369. 

 1869. Meek and Wortheu. (Subgen. of Batocr.) Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. 



Phila., p. 350. 

 1873. Meek and Worth. (Subgen. oi Batocr.) Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. 



1878. Wachsm. and Spr. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila,, p. 235. 



1879. Zittel. (Subgen. oi Actinocr.) Handb. d, Palseont,, p. 370. 

 Syn. Actinocrinus (in part), Hall, 1861. Bost, Jouin. Nat, Hist. 



Lyon and Casseday's description of this genus was not very 

 satisfactory and partly incorrect, and that is evidently the reason 

 why it has never been recognized as it should be. Hall ignored 

 it altogether, Shumard could not distinguish it from Actinocrinus, 

 and Meek and Worthen, who adopted tlie name, placed it sub- 

 genericall}' at first under Actinocrinus, and later under Batocrinus. 

 It differs from the former in almost the same characters as Bato- 

 crinus, but as distinctly from the latter, in the number and 




1S81.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 345 



arrangement of the arms, in their greater length, depressed 

 spatulate form ; also in the form of the cal^^x, the extended basal 

 ring, the preponderance of the dome portions over the calyx, the 

 excentric position of the anal tube, its inflated character, and its 

 /disposition to bend sideways. We consider these characters 

 sufficient for a full generic division, and propose the following : — 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Body small, biturbinate or sub- 

 globose ; calyx truncate at the base, composed of smooth, convex 

 or nodose plates with rarely striatious. Vault more or less inflated, 

 and exceeding the calyx in its dimensions. 



Basals three, equal, formed into a wide rim, which extends far 

 bej^ond the periphery of the column. Primary radials 3X5; the 

 first large, equal in size to the second and third together, and 

 wider than either of them ; the second quadrangular ; the third 

 regularly pentagonal, sometimes smaller than the second. Sec- 

 ondar}" radials composed of two series of plates each, and so are 

 the tertiary radials when present. The plates of the marginal 

 row, those supporting the arms, form a projecting circlet around 

 the body, and are laterally extended ; they are large, their outer 

 sides excavated for the reception of the arm plates, the upper side 

 notched for the ambulacral passages. At the side of the arm 

 openings, which are generally directed obliquely toward the vault 

 and close to the arm, there is located a respiratory (?) pore, which 

 is arranged like in Batocrinus, and generally as large. The arm 

 openings are arranged in groups of two, three, four, or five each, 

 with great variability' in the difierent raj^s. There are from twelve 

 to twenty-two arm openings in all, and each one supports either a 

 simple or a compound arm. The openings of adjacent raj'S are 

 placed farther apart than those of the same ra}^, and are separated 

 by a small depression, which at the posterior side of the body is 

 considerably deeper and wider. 



Arms fully twice as long as in Batocrinus, the upper portions 

 flattened, much wider, and folded inward. They are composed of 

 a double series of joints, which at the bottom rest upon one or 

 two small cuneate pieces. The succeeding arm plates are generally 

 short, but they become gradually longer as they increase in width. 

 The lower portions of the arms are round or nearly so, the 

 increase in width beginning at one-fourth to one-third their 

 height, vfhen they are gradually flattened, spread out laterally, 

 and become broad and spatulate, remaining thick and heavy along 




340 rROCEEDINQS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the middle line, growing thin toward the edges. In some species 

 the arms become full}- an inch wide, while in others the increase 

 in width is comparatively insignificant. In some species, every 

 arm joint from both sides is extended, in others only every 

 second, third or fourth joint, while the intermediate ones remain, 

 narrow. In these arms the wider joints appear in the form of 

 lateral spines, which begin short, but gradually increase to a 

 considerable length. Ambulacral furrows deep ; pinnules similar 

 to those of Batocrinus. 



Interradial plates one to three, the first large, extended to the 

 middle portions of the third primary radials, the upper ones very 

 small. Anals, one in the first, three in the second series, with a 

 few additional plates above. Interaxillarles none. 



Dome elevated, inflated, generally larger than the calyx, com- 

 posed of nodose or spiniferous plates ; the apical plates more 

 prominent and larger ; the large centre piece occupying the very 

 centre of the vault ; posterior side with a shallow depression filled 

 by small anal pieces. 



Anal tube strong, more or less excentric, extending beyond the 

 infolding arms, and frequently bent abruptly to one side ; the 

 middle portions more or less inflated, top and base of almost 

 equal width, the upper end provided with a small opening. 



Column round, composed of very wide pieces alternating with 

 much smaller ones, the former frequently with sharp edges ; 

 central canal small. 



Geological Position, etc. — Eretmocrinus occurs at the age of the 

 Burlington and Keokuk groups, in America only. 



We recognize the following species : — 



186 1. Eretmocrinus attenuatus Hall. (Actinocr. matuta var. attenuata) Desc. 

 New. S|). Crin. p, 14. Upper Burlington li > est Burlington, Iowa. 



1860. Eretmocr. calyculoides Hall. (Actinocr. calyouloides) Supp. Geol. lowrt, p. 



17, Photogr. PI. 3, figs. 2-5; Meek and Worth., 187H, Batocr. (Eretmocr.) 

 calyculoides Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. Upper Burl, limest. Burlington, 

 Towa. 

 1S61. Eretmocr. carioa Hall. (Actinocr. carica) Desc. New. Sp. Crin. p. 10; Meek 

 iind Worth, 1873, Batocr. (Eretmocr.) carica, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. 

 Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1861. Eretmocr. clio Hall. (Actinocr. clio) Desc. New. Sp. Crin. p. 1; also 



Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 262, Photogr. PI. 3, fig. 7; Meek and Worth., 1873, 

 Batocr. (Eretmocr.) clio, Geol. Rep. II'., v, p. 3fi8. Lower Burlington 

 limest. Burlii'gton, Iowa. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 347 



1861. Eretmocr. cloelia Hall. (Actinocr. cloelia) De«c. Xew. Sp. Crin., p. 1 : also 

 Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 266 ; Meek and Worth., 1873, Eretmocr. (Batocr.) 

 cloelia, <ti;o1. Rep. 111., v, p 368. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, 

 lea. 



1861. Eretmocr. corbulis. (Actinocr. cor^ulis) I5esc. Xew. Sp. Pal. Crin. p. 1 ; 

 also Best. .Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 265 ; Meek and Worth , Batocr. — Eretmocr. f?) 

 — corbulis, Geol. Rep. 111., v,p. 368. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 

 Iowa. 



*1860 Eretmocr. coronatus Hall. (Actinocr. coronatus) Supp. tJeol. Rep. Iowa, 

 p. 28, Photogr. PI. 3, figs. 1-2. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1560. Eretmocr. gemmiformis Hall. (Actinocr. gemmiform's) Supp. Geol Rep. 



Iowa, p. 23, Photogr. PI. 3, fig. 6; Meek and Worth., BatOcr.—Eretmocr.(?) 



— gemmiformis, Geol. Rep. III., V, p. 368. Lower Burlington limet. Bur- 

 lington, Iowa. 

 *1S55. Eretmocr. Eonincki Shumard. (Actinocr. Konincki) Geol. Rep. Mtfsouri; 



by Swallow, pt. ii, p. 194. PI. A, figs. 8 a, b, c : M-ek and Worth,, Batocr. 



Konincki, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 367. Upper Burlington limest. BurLngton, 



Iowa. 

 Si/n. Actinocr. urnaeformis McChesney, 1860. New. Pal. Foss. p. 23 ; Meek 



and Worth., Batocr. — Eretmocr.(T) — urnaeformis, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. 

 *1861. Eretmocr. leucosia Hall. (Actinocr. leucosia) Dese. New. Pal. Crin., p. 1 ; 



also Bost. Journ. Nat, Hist., p. 261. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 



Iowa. 

 1S59. Eretmocr. magnificus Lyon and Cass. Type of the genus. Am. Journ. Arts 



and Sci. (ser. 2), vol. 28, Septbr., p. 241; Meek and Worth., Batocr.— 



Eretmocr.— magnificus, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368. Keokuk limest. Hardin 



Co., Ky. 

 1361. Eretmocr. matuta Hall. (Actinocr. matata) Dese. New. Sp. Crin., p. 14; 



Meek and Worth., G ol. Rep. 111., v, p. 368, Upper Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1369. Eretmocr. neglectus Meek and Worth. (Batocr. — Eretmocr.— neglectus) 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei., Phila., p. 355 ; Geol. Rep. Ill,, v, p. 377, PI. 5, fig. 3. 



Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1S58. Eretmocr. ramulosus Hall. (Actinocr, ramulosus) Geol. Rep, Iowa, i, pt. ii, 



p. 615, PI 15, fig. 7 ; Wachsm. and Spr., 1878. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., 



p. 237. Burlington and Keokuk Transition bed, and Lower Keokuk limest. 



Burlington and Augusta, Iowa, and Nauvoo, 111. 

 It is more than probable that this species is a Syn. of E. magnificus. 



1561, Eretmocr. remibraohiatus Hall. (Actinocr. remibrachiatus) Dese. New. Sp. 



Crin., i>, 11, Photogr. PI. 3, fig \ 8-9; Meek and Worth., Geol. Rep. III., 

 V, p. 368, Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1355. Eretmocr. Verneuilianus Shumard. (Actinocr. Verneuilianus) Geol. Rep. 

 Missouri, by Swallow, Pt. ii, p. 193, PI. A, figs, la, b; Meek and Worth. 

 Batocr, — Eretmocr. — Verneuilianus GcjI. Rep. 111., v, p. 368, PI. 4, figs. 

 3 and 4. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa, Illinois and Missouri. 

 Next to Batocr. rotundus this is the most characteristic species of the Bur- 

 lington group. It does not repret-ent a typical form of this genus, the arms 

 like those of E. Konincki being but little flattened, but its structure other 

 wise leaves no doubt that it belongs to Eretnibcrinus. 




348 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



We further place here the following new species, which are 

 interesting as all three are of a similar type, and either descendants 

 from each other, or closely related to each other : — 



Eretmoorinus originarius n. sp. 



Body small, calyx and dome of equal height, the former sub- 

 turbinate with nearl}^ straight sides, the vault somewhat inflated, 

 with convex sides. Radial plates covered with an obscure ridge, 

 passing longitudinally from plate to plate, all other plates of the 

 calyx nearly or quite smooth. 



Basal cup low, truncate at the bottom, extending into a ring 

 which projects beyond the rather large column. First radial as 

 large as second and third combined ; the second much shorter, 

 quadrangular, twice as wide as high ; the third as large as the 

 second, and but little wider, the lateral sides almost straight. 

 Secondary radials consisting of two series of plates, which are of 

 a similar form as the two upper primary radials but smaller. They 

 are followed in the anterior ray by the arms, in the four other rays 

 by tertiary radials. In the lateral rays both upper and secondary 

 radials are axillary, and give off 2 X 2 tertiary radials with four 

 arm openings, the two postero-lateral rays have three, of which one 

 side only is bifurcating, while the other remains simple. Arms 

 simple throughout, of medium length, the tips slightly' spatulate 

 and folded inward ; composed of rather high, somewhat convex 

 joints, with comparatively strong pinnules. 



Interradials three, the first very large, with a faint node in the 

 centre ; anals one, three and two. Dome composed of convex 

 plates ; annal tube unknown, but evidently not very large. 



Geological Position, etc. — From the age of the earlier Keokuk 

 limest., near Bono, Lawrence Co., Ind., where the species occurs 

 iu great quantities. Collection of Chas. Wachsmuth. 



Eretmoorinus intermedius n. ^p. 



In form, size, and ornamentation resembling E. originarius, 

 perhaps a little more truncate at the basal portions, and the arm 

 bases more spreading, differing, however, in the arm structure. 

 It has normally six arms from each posterior, and four from the 

 rest of the rays, twenty-four arms to the individual. The radial 

 portions of the calyx, ijj the lateral ra3^s, are unchanged, while 

 the anterior ray has in addition 2X2 tertiary radials, and 

 consequently twice the number of arms. In the posterior rays, 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 349 



botli second tertian" radials are bifurcating, and give to the inner 

 side of the ra}' a simple arm, to the outer 2X2 quaternary radials, 

 of which each series supports an arm. The plates of the upper 

 order of radials, all around the bod}', and frequently the last 

 axillary plate of the posterior raj'S, are not enclosed within the 

 body or only parll}^ so, thus remaining in a somewhat imdeveloped 

 state, while they are in form and size regular radials. Compared 

 with B. originarius, the arms are more crowded, the upper 

 portions more spatulate. Arm joints transversely angular, the 

 outer sides straight or very little convex. Vault unknown. 



Geological Position, etc. — From the same layer as the preceding 

 species, and almost as common. Collection of Chas. Waclismuth. 



Eretmocrinus adultus n. sp. 



Plates apparently without ornamentation. Calyx low basin- 

 shaped, with a projecting rim along the basals. First radials a 

 little shorter than second and third together, but wider than either 

 of them ; the third wider than the second. The higher orders of 

 radials comparatively large, composed of two plates each, which 

 increase in size upward, those forming the arm bases very much 

 wider, as large or larger than the first primary raelials. Articul- 

 ating scar or facet for the attachment of the arms occupying but 

 little more than one-half to two-thirds the width of the plates, 

 somewhat projecting, thereby producing a shallow depression 

 between the arm bases, outer face truncate or concave. The con- 

 cavity is filled by three arm pieces, a central one which is angular 

 above, and a shorter piece on each side of it, the latter of the 

 height of the regular arm joints but narrower. They are followed 

 by a similar piece on each side, and two other pieces resting 

 against the sloping sides of the little axillary plate, alternating 

 with the former, and constituting the base of two arms, which 

 from the second or third joint become free. The species has 

 fourteen pairs of arms, two in the anterior ray, and three in each 

 of the others. Arms long gradually flattening at midway, upper 

 portions strongly spatulate and folded inward. 



Interradials consisting of one large plate, succeeded either by 

 one or two smaller ones, or by a single large, elongate piece, 

 wedged in between the plates of the higher order of radials. 

 Anals one, three, and three plates. Vault unknown ; anal tube 

 long, extending considerably beyond the arms, of rather large size, 

 composed of smooth plates. E. adultus agrees in its double arm 




350 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



structure with Batocr. Indiansensis and B. Christyi^ but has 

 spatulate arms and a very different arm formula. It is of the 

 type of Eretmocr. originarius with which it is more closely 

 allied than would appear at first sight. E. adnltus is larger and 

 especially broader, but this is evidently due to the double arm 

 structure which required those modifications, the differences are 

 similar to those between Batocr. Lovei and B. trocht^cus. 



Geological Position, etc. — Keoknk limest. Canton, and Ed- 

 wardsville, Ind. Collection of Chas. Wachsmuth. 



24. DORYCRINUS Roemer. 



1854. F. Roemer. Archiv f. Naturgesch., Jahrg., xix, Band i, p. 307. 



1855. F. Roemer. Lethaia Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 249. 



1869. Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p. 165. 

 1873. Meek and Worth. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 379. 



1879. Zittel. (Subgenus of AmpJwracrinus). Handb. d. Palaeont., 1, p. 370. 

 Syn. Amphoracrimis Meek and Worth, (not Austin;, 1866, Geol. 



Rep. 111., ii, p. 209. 

 Syn, Actinoerinus {Amphoracr.) Meek and Worth., 1861, Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci., Phila., p 132. 

 Syn. Sphmrocrinus Meek and Worth., 1865 (not Roemer, 1851). Ibid., 



p. 154. 

 Syn. Ccelocrinus Meek and Worth., 1865 (not Caliocrimis White, 

 1863). Ibid., p. 273 ; and 1868, Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 215. 



Roemer 's tj'pical species of Dorycrinus is provided with six 

 large spines at the vault, and upon this peculiarity, principally, 

 the genus was founded. In regard to this point the genus must 

 be amende'd, as there are other species, evidently belonging to the 

 same group, which have only a central spine, others have three, 

 and still others in place of the spines a large convex or nodose 

 plate. There are, however, other excellent distinctions which 

 make Dorycrinus a good genus. 



Neither Hall, Shumard, de Koninck and Lehon, Pictet, nor 

 Schultze, have recognized Dorycrinus.^ all referring the species to 

 Actinoerinus, with which it agrees onlj^ in the general family 

 characters, and in having the rays extended into lobes. Dory- 

 crinus inclines far more toward Batocrinus and Eretmocrinui<. 

 with which it agrees in the general form of its plates, and in the 

 peculiar double arm structure, which became here a constant 

 character. It differs, however, ver}^ essentially in the lobed form 

 of the body, its strongly expressed bilateral symmetry, in the 

 lateral position of the anus, and in its opening out directly through 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 351 



the bod}^, as also the shortness and delicacy of the arms. It 

 differs from Agaricocrinua and Amphoracrinus in the form and 

 proportions of the body, in the arrangement of the plates, and in 

 the altogether different arm strnctnre. 



We place Meek and Worthen's snbgenns Gcelocinnus, -which, had 

 been previousl^^ described, successively, under Actinocrinus, Am- 

 phoracrinus and Sjjh^rocrinus, as a synonym under Dorycrinus^ 

 the only known species being a somewhat aberrant form, but not 

 sufficiently distinct even to make it a subdivision. 



Generic Diagnosis Calyx broadh' turbinate or subglobose, 



truncate at the base, and deeply sinuate at the interradial spaces, 

 the sinus at the posterior side much deeper and wider, and 

 extending up to the vault, thereby giving to the body a decidedly 

 pentalobate aspect, with a strongly expressed bilateral symmetry. 

 Dome from one-fourth to one-half the height of the body, strongly 

 convex, composed of comparatively few and large plates, fre- 

 quently armed with one to six spines. Plates sometimes cor- 

 rugated, but not striated, and all more or less convex or nodose. 



Basals three, equal, short, in the t3q3ical forms of the genus 

 abruptly spreading, the lower exterior margins extending almost 

 at right angles to the axis of the fossil ; deeply sinuate at 

 the sutures, but sometimes forming a continuous ring. Primary 

 radials 3X5; the first as large or larger than the second and 

 third together; the second much narrower than the first, but 

 wider than high, quadrangular in outline, although sometimes (in 

 the same specimen) pentagonal or hexagonal, owing to the position 

 of the second series of interradials, upper and lower sides parallel; 

 the third more or less pentagonal, wider than high, wider in rays 

 with three or four arm bases than with two. The third radial, in 

 rays with only two arm openings, with 2X2 secondar}^ radials, 

 which support the arms, but in rays with three or four openings, 

 and consequently with tertiary radials, the secondary' radials 

 consist of a single series of plates, of which one or both are axillarj'. 

 In the latter case, the plate gives off 1 X 2 arm-bearing plates, in 

 the former another row of secondary radials, which support the 

 arms. The arm bearing plates, all around the body, are project- 

 ing, rounded toward their sides, and separated by a deep lateral 

 depression or sinus, which is deeper and wider between the main 

 divisions of the ray, and which at the space between the rays 

 forms a wide and deep gap. Dorycrinus has variously from 




352 PROCEEDTNGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



twelve to twenty arm openings to the species, and twice that 

 number of arms, two to each opening, given off in a similar 

 manner as in some species of Batocrinus and Eretmocrinus. The 

 arm openings are unequally divided among the rays, only species 

 with twenty openings having four to each ray. In species with a 

 less number, the posterior rays are stronger, and have always four 

 openings, except when there are only twelve openings in all. The 

 anterior ra}'- is generally stronger, or has at least as many arms as 

 the antero-lateral rays, which, as a rule, are the least developed, 

 and in most species have but two pairs of arms. Slight varia- 

 tions in the arm formula of the same species occur frequently in 

 this genus. Respiratory (?) pores close to the arm openings. 



Interradials two or three, rarely more, in two series ; the first 

 very large, frequently but not always extending to the third 

 primar}'^ radials ; the plates of the upper series small, placed within 

 the sinus between the rays, and hence are connecting with the 

 interradial dome plates. Anal area constructed very differently 

 from the interradial, composed of a large plate in line with the 

 first radials, but higher than those, with the upper sloping sides 

 longer. There are three plates in the second series, the middle 

 one larger with truncate upper side, succeeded by a row of two 

 to four similar plates, which form a longitudinal line, often 

 elevated into a ridge up to the anal aperture. The opening is 

 surrounded by one or two rows of plates, which at the upper side 

 lean against the central dome piece. It is a simple aperture 

 penetrating a somewhat thickened protuberance, and nearly 

 always situated and directed laterally. No interaxillary plates. 



Dome elevated, inflated, occasionally a little depressed toward 

 the middle. Plates large, centre plate and the first five radial 

 pieces larger than the proximal dome pieces, and frequently 

 extended into spines, which in some extreme cases attain a length 

 of three to four inches. There are other species with only a 

 central spine, and still others in which the respective plates 

 are only larger or more convex. The proximal plates connect 

 with the centre piece, they are verj' regularly arranged and 

 readily recognized, but otherwise not distinct from the rest of the 

 vault pieces. 



Column round, not strong, and composed alternately of much 

 larger and smaller segments ; central canal small. 



Geological Position, etc. — Dorycrinus is in America a strictly 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 353 



Lower Subcarboniferous genus ; the only species so far recognized 

 in Europe has been found in the Devonian of the Eifel. 

 The following is a list of the known species : — 



1S69. Dory.rinus canaliculatus Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sei. Phi!a , 



p. 16fi; Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 381, PI. 6, fig. 4. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1861. Dorycr. concavus Meek and Worth. (Actinocr. ooncavus) Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila., p. 131; Sphaerocr. Concavus Meek and Worth., 1865, Ibid., p. 



154; Coelocr. concavus Meek and Worth., 1865 (Dec), Ibid., p. 273; also 



Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 215, PI, 15, figs. 10 a, b, c. Lower Burling'on limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 1858. Dorycr. cornigerns Hall. (Actiaoor. comigerus, not A. cornigerus Lyon 



and Casseday) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 576, PI. 9, figs. 12 a, b, c ; 



also Ibid., Supp., PI. 3, fig. 4; Meek and Worth., Lorycr, cornigems, Geol. 



Rep. 111., p. 380. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. divaricatus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 11. 

 Syn. Actinocr. qninquelobus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 15 ; Meek 



and Worth. Dorycr. quinquelobus 1873. Geol. Rep. 111., v', p. 380. 

 *1860. Dorycr. deoornis Hall. (Actinocr. decornis) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa., p. 13. 



Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 (This is a very doubtful species.) 

 1858. Dorycr. Gouldi Hall. (Actinocr. Gouldi) Geol. Rep. Iowa., i, pt. ii, p. 613, 



PI. 15, figs. 6 a, b; Meek and AVorth. Dorycr. Gouldi, lieol. Rep. III., v, p. 



380. Lower part of the Keokuk limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 1875. Dorycr. Kelloggi AVorthen, Geol. Rep. 111., vi, p. 513, PL 29, fig. 8. Keokuk 



limest. Keokuk, Iowa. 

 1853. Dorycr. mississippiensis Roemer. Type of the genus. Archir f. Naturgesch., 



Jahrg. xix. Band i, PI. 10, figs. 1, 2, 3 : Meek and Worth., 1S73, Geol. Rep. 111., 



V, p. 380. Keokuk limest. Iowa, Illinois, Tennessee, Kentucky and Missouri. 

 Syn. Actinocr. (Dorycr). mississippiensis var. spiniger Hall, 1860. Supp. 



Geol. Rep. Iowa., p. 54. (This is mertlv a young form.) 

 1858. Dorycr. missouriensis Shumard. (Actinocr. missouriensis) Geol. Rep. 



Missouri, by Swallow, pt. ii. p. 190, PI. A, figs. 4 a, b, c ; Meek and Worth. 



Dorycr, missouriensis, 1873. Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 380. Upper Burl. 



limest. Palmyra, Mo. and Burlington, Iowa. (This species is very variable 



in the number of arms.) 

 Syn. Actinocr. desideratus Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin. p, 2; Host. Journ. 



Nat. Hist., p. 273; Meek and Worth. Dorycr. desideratus, Geol. Rep. 111., 



V, p. 380. 

 *1855. Dorycr. parvus Shumard. (Actinocr. parvus) Geol. Rep. Mo., by Swallow, 



ii, p. 193, PI. A, fig. 9; Upper Burling'on limest. (not St. Louis limest. as 



quoted by Shumard), Palmyra, Mo. and Burlington, Iowa. 

 Syn. Actinocr. trinodus Hall, 1858. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 575. 

 Syn. Actinocr. symmetricus Hall, 1858. Geol. Rep., Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 574, PI, 



9, figs. 8a, b; Meek and Worth., Dorycr. symmetricus 1873, (Jeol. Hep. 111., 



V, p. 380. 

 Syn. Actincor. (Amphoracr.) subturbinatus Meek and Worth., I860, Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Set. Phila., p. 388; Geol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 212, PI. 15, figs. 4 a, b. 



Dorycr. subturbinatus, 1873, Ibid., v, p. 380. 



24 




354 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



*18C2 (?) Doryor. prseoursor Hall. (Aotinocr. prseoursor) 15th Rep. N. Y., St. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 131. Hamilton gr. Western New York. 

 We refer this species with doubt to the genus; it is imperfectly known. 

 *1855. Doryor. prumiensis MUUer. (Aotinocr pramiensis) Verhand. Naturhist. 



Verein. f. Rheinlande, xii, p. 81, PI. 9, figs. 1, 5; also 1857. Pyxidocr. 

 ' prumiensis Neue Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p, 263, Schultze, 1867, Mon. Echin. 



Eifl. Kalk, p. 60, PI. 6, fig. 6. Devon. Eifel, Germ. 

 1868. Doryor. qainqaelobns (var.) intermedins Meek and Worth. Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 346; Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 385, PL 10, fig. 4. Transition 



bed between Burl, and Keck, limest. Pleasant Grove, Iowa. This is more 



properly a variety of D. mississippiensis, from which it difi"ers only in 



having fewer arms and in its smaller size. 

 1868. Doryor. Koemeri Meek and Worth. Proc, Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 346; 



also Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 383, PI. 10, fig. 3. Uppermost part of Upper Burl. 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1860. Doryor. spinosulus Hall. (Aotinocr. spinosnlos) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa., 



p. 52, Keokuk limest. Nauvoo, 111. (Probably a young D. mississippiensis. 

 *1858. Doryor. subaculeatus Hall. (Aotinocr. subftcnleatns) Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. 



ii, p. 570, PI. 10. figs. 2 a-b ; Meek and Worth., Doryor. snbaculeatns, Geol. 



Rep. 111., V, p. 380. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1850. Doryor. unicornis Owen and Shumard. (Aotinocr. unicornis) Joam. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., ii. (ser. ii), p. 67 ; also U. S. Geol. Rep. Iowa, Wis. and Minn., 



p. 573, PI. 5 a, figs. 12 a, b ; Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii,p. 668, PI. 



10, figs, 5 a, b, c; Meek and Worth., 1873, Doryor. unicornis, Geol. Rep 



111. V, p. 380, PI. 6, fig. 2. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 iSyn. Actinoor. tricornis Hall, 1858, Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 569. 

 Si/n. Actinocr. pendens Hall, 1860. Ibid., Supp., p. 31. 

 *1861. Doryor. unispinus Hall. (Actinoor. unispinus) Desc. New Sp. Grin. p. 2; 



also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 270. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, 



Iowa. 



C. EHODOCRINID.!: Roemer. 

 (Amend. Zittel, amend. Wachsm. and Spr.) 



The genera which we include among the Rhodocrinidse were 

 arranged by the earlier writers, either in connection with such 

 genera as Cyathocrinus, Poteriocrinus, or in various ways with 

 Actinocrinus, Melocrinus, Dimerocrinus , Periechocrinus, Carpo- 

 crinus and others. 



Austin ^ placed Rhodocrinus and Sagenocrinus under the 

 Actinocrinoidea, Dimerocrinus under the Merocrinoidea. 



D'Orbigny^ placed Gilhertsocrinus and Dimerocrinus under 

 the Melocrinidje, Glyptocrinus and Rhodocrinus under the 

 Cyathocrinidae. 



1 Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 1842-3. 

 * Course elem. de Paleont., 1852, vol. 2. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 355 



Pictet^ arranged Rhodocrinus^ AcanthociHnus^ Dimerocrinus, 

 and Thysanocrinus under the Cyathocriniens, Lijriocrinus and 

 Scyphocrinus Hall (not Zenker), under the Carpocriniens, and 

 all under the Cj'athocrinidje. 



Roemer,^ who was the first to propose the name Rhodocrinidae, 

 referred to it only the genus Bhodocrinus, placing Sagenocrinus 

 with the Sagenocrinidse, Thysanocrinus with the Poteriocrinidse, 

 and Dimerocrinus which we take to be identical with Thysano- 

 crinus he referred to the Cyathocrinidae. 



The great dissimilarity which manifests itself in these classifi- 

 cations, must be partly attributed to the imperfect knowledge 

 which prevailed with regard to some of those genera at that time. 

 It was evidently the intention of the writers to group the 

 Crinoids according to the presence or absence of underbasals, the 

 number of basals and the arm structure, but these parts had 

 been often incorrectly represented, or were as yet entirely unknown. 



A very marked improvement is visible in the classification of 

 ZitteP who placed among the Rhodocrinidae, Ollacr-inus, Bhodo- 

 crinus, Acanthocrinus, Bipidocrinus, and Thysanocrinus^ and 

 proposed the name Glyptocrinidae for Glyptocrinus , Glyptaster, 

 Thylacocrinus, Lampterocrinus, Eucrinus, and Sagenocrinus, 

 these genera, without exception, have underbasals, and Zittel 

 discriminated distinctly between genera in which the calyx is con- 

 structed exclusively of three rings of plates, and those in Avhich 

 the radials are separated by interradials — our Sphferoidocrinidae 

 — and he distinguished these from our Ichthyocrinidae. He, how- 

 ever, placed Dimerocrinus with some of our Actinocrinidae, as 

 that genus was thought to possess no underbasals, and he for a 

 similar reason admitted Lyriocrinus among the Calyptocrinidae. 



The Glyptocrinidte and Rhodocrinidae of Zittel, according to 

 his own diagnosis, differ only in the form of the body and the 

 position of the interradial (not anal) plates. He describes the 

 form of the Glj^ptocrinidse as high (turbinate), that of the other- 

 bowl-shaped (more or less depressed), the first interradials of the 

 former as being placed between the second and third radials, those of , 

 the latter as forming together with the first radials a ring of ten 

 alternating plates. We doubt very much whether these dif-- 



' Traite de Paleont., 1857, vol. iv. 

 -Lethsea Geogn., 1855 (Ausg. 3). 

 ^ Handbuch der Palseontologie, i. 




356 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



fereiiccs, even if they were persistent, can be deemed sufficient for 

 a family distinction. Thysanocrinus of the Rhodocrinidje has 

 generally at four sides the first interradial disposed between the first 

 and second radials ; while in Thijlacocrinus, according to Oehlert's 

 figure, all five first interradials rest directly upon the basals, or to 

 use Zittel's language, "form a ring of ten plates with the first 

 radials as in his Rhodocrinidse.^^ 



In our classification, we place under the Rhodocrinidje all genera 

 of the Spha^roidocrinidfe which have well-defined underbasals, and 

 we admit also Glyptoerinus in which these plates are exceedingly 

 rudimentary, or perhaps in some species altogether undeveloped. 

 The Rhodocrinidae have five — exceptionally three — basals ; from 

 2 to 3X5 primary radials, 2 to 6 X 10 secondary and some- 

 times several tertiary radials. The pjates of the higher orders, if 

 such are present, being formed into extended free ra3^s with 

 lateral arms. Arms rather delicate, branching or simple, the latter 

 being rather the exception. Interradials numerous, arranged with 

 two or three plates in each series, except in the first which has 

 but one plate. In most of the genera, the first interradial rests 

 directly upon the truncate upper side of the basals, thereby 

 separating the first radials all around. In others, however, only the 

 first plate of the posterior or anal side is supported by a basal, 

 that of the other four sides being placed against the upper corners 

 of the first and between the second radials, the former producing 

 an almost perfect pentrahedral, the latter a more or less bilateral 

 symmetry. 



In Glyptoerinus, the first interradial rests between the first and 

 second radials at every side ; interaxillaries generally present ; 

 vault fiat or low hemispherical, composed of small and more or 

 less irregular pieces ; apical dome-plates not well defined ; inter- 

 radial regions depressed ; anus in form of a simple opening 

 through the vault, rarely proboscis-like. Column round or pen- 

 tagonal. 



For greater convenience of study we subdivide the Rhodo- 

 crinidre into three groups. 



a. Glyptocrinites. — Calyx turbinate, symmetry almost perfectly 

 pentahedral, radial plates with rounded, strongly elevated ridges 

 which gently pass into the arms. Interradial areas depressed, the 

 first plate resting either directly upon the basals, or between the 

 second and third radials, without special anal plate beneath their 

 line. Restricted to the Lower Silurian. 




1881 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 35t 



b. Gh/ptasterites. — Calyx turbinate, symmetry bilateral, radials 

 legs carinated than in the preceding group. A special anal plate 

 supported upon the basals, with another within the second series, 

 resting between the two inten-adials, and in line with the first 

 interradial plate of the four lateral areae. Upper Silurian. 



c. Rhodocrinites — Cal3'^x subglobose, somewhat depressed ; sym- 

 metry nearly perfectly pentahedral. Radials without elevated 

 ridges. Interradial plates extending down to the basals, posterior 

 area but little distinct from the others, sometimes a little wider, 

 with one or two irregular additional plates. Pound from the 

 Upper Silurian to the Subcarboniferous. 



These groups, as those of the Actinocrinidae, are based upon 

 the general form of the body and the arrangement of anal plates. 

 In their form, the Glyjjtocrinites resemble the Glyj^tasterites^ but 

 in the arrangement and position of interradial and radial plates 

 the former agree with the Rhodocrinites. It might have been 

 not out of the way if we had placed the genus Glyptocrinus in a 

 group by itself, as it differs from Ai-chseocrinus and Reteoci-inus^ 

 with which it has been associated, and from all other Rhodocrinidse, 

 in having the first plate at each interradial side placed between 

 the second radials, a combination which is found not unfrequently 

 in the earlier Actinocrinidie. This becomes more important since 

 some species of that genus apparently have no underbasals, and 

 it is a question whether that genus, at least partly, should 

 not be arranged with the other group altogether. The unmis- 

 takable evidence of minute underbasals in some species, and the 

 close aflSnities which the genus has with Reteocrinus^ with which 

 it is connected by most remarkable transition forms, has induced 

 us to place it with the Rhodocrinidae. Glyptocrinus evidently 

 forms a link between those two great divisions, and leans as much 

 to the one as to the other, but whether it is the prototype of the 

 Actinocrinidai or of the Rhodocrinidoe we are unable to assert, 

 there being arguments in favor of both theories. It seems to us 

 more probable that the Rhodocrinidse were introduced first, but 

 this must remain a supposition so long as we know comparatively 

 nothing of the crinoidal forms which preceded Glyptocrinus. 



The arms of the Rhodocrinidse in the Lower Silurian, are single- 

 or double-jointed ; the Upper Silurian forms, almost without excep- 

 tion, have two rows of interlocking plates. Respiratory pores, such 

 as noticed in the Actinocrinidse, have never been observed in this 




358 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



fiimily ; Ollacrinus has lateral appendages, two to each interradial 

 area, with a central canal passing through each, communicating 

 with the inner body. The entrances of these canals into the body 

 occupy the same relative position to the ambulacral or arm open- 

 ings, as the respiratory pores to the arm openings in Batocrinus, 

 and these like those are connected with the radial grooves beneath 

 the vault. The appendages seem to be in some way connected with 

 the interradial depressions which are so frequently found upon the 

 vault of this genus and in Rhodocrinus (PI. 19, fig. 1). The depres- 

 sions are in some specimens deeper than in others, and as the 

 plates of which they are composed are smaller and thinner, it is 

 very probable that the test in these parts was flexible, liable to 

 contraction and expansion. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Nine of the thirteen genera which we 

 place among the Rhodocrinidae are restricted to the Silurian, two 

 are strictly Devonian, and the remainder which first appear in the 

 Devonian, become extinct in the lower part of the Subcarboniferous. 

 None of the genera seem to have had a great variety of species 

 or to have existed in great numbers, except some few species 

 of the Lower Silurian. 



We arrange the three sections as follows : — 



a. Gltptocrinites. 



1. Olyptocrinus Hall. 3. Beteocrintis Billings. 



2. Arch(Bocrmu8 Wachs. & Spr. 



b. Glyptasterites. 



4 Olyptaster Hall. 6. Lampterocrinus Roemer. 



Buhgen. Eucrinus Angelin. 7. Sagenocrinus Austin. 



5. Dimerocrinus Phillips. 



c. Rhodocrinites. 



8. Lyriocrinus Hall. 11. Anthemocrinus Wachs.& Spr. 



9. Ripidocrinus Beyrich. 12. Bhodocrinus Miller, 



10. Thylacocrinus Oehlert. 13. Ollacrinus Cumberland. 



P. S. — At the moment this goes to press, we received from S. A. 

 Miller a very interesting paper containing descriptions of several 

 new Crinoids from the Hudson River group, published in the 

 April number of the Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist. Miller pro- 

 poses the name Xenocrinus for a form, which in external appear- 

 ance resembles closely Reteocrinus Billings, but from which it 




1881,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 359 



differs, according to description, by having a quadrangular column, 

 four basals and no underbasals, thus bringing it in close proximity 

 to Mariacrinxis and Melocrinus, and among the Actinocrinidte. 

 There is something in the habitus of the genus that leads us to 

 think it should be associated with the Rhodocrinidee, and that it 

 had underbasals which were not disclosed. 



!No Actinocrinoid has ever been discovered in which the inter- 

 radial field, except at the " azj-gous " side, extends to the basal 

 disk', such, however, seems to be clearly the case in Xenocrinus 

 penicillus. We leave the discussion of this genus to our future 

 appendix, as we hope to have an opportunity to examine some of 

 the specimens. 



Another of Miller's new species is described with four basals 

 and a quadrangular stem ; but, contrary to the former, here only 

 the interradial area at the posterior or anal side descends to the 

 basals. Miller refers the species to Glyptocrinus with which it 

 has no doubt close affinities, but it appears to us, that if Xeno- 

 crimts is a good generic form, the other also should be made a 

 new genus. Gl. Harriai is distinguished from Glyptocrinus almost 

 by the same characters as Xenocrinus from Reteocrinus. We 

 further refer Glyptocrinus cognatus Miller, to Reteocrinus. 



a. Glyptockinites. 

 1. GLYPTOCEINUS Hall. 



1847. Hall. Paleont. New York, i, p. 281. 

 1857. Billings. Geol. Surv, Canada, of 1853 to 1856, p. 256. 

 1859. Billings. Ibid., Decade iv, p. 55. 

 1863. Hall. Trans. Albany Inst., iv, p. 202. 

 1873. Meek. Geol. Surv. Ohio Paleont., i, p. 30. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Paleont., i, p. 374 (not Olyptocrinus d'Orb., 1850, 

 Prodr. i, p. 45, nor p. 103). 



Syn. Apiocrinite Anthony, 1838 (not Miller, 1821). 



Syn. leosidactylocrinus Owen, 1843, Cat. Spec. Ohio Valley. 



We are compelled to exclude from the genus Glyptocrinus 

 several species which were referred to it by Hall and Billings, and 

 have arranged them with other genera. We place Glyptocr. 

 Garleyi Hall — which has four basals and not five — under Maria- 

 crinus as reconstructed and amended by us. The generic differ- 

 ences between Glyptocrinus and Glyptaster have never been satis- 

 factorily pointed out, and Hall's explanatory remarks (Trans. 




360 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Albany Inst., iv, p. 202) have by no means cleared up the difli- 

 cnlties attending their separation. 



According to Hall, the principal distinction should be found in 

 the rudimentary or imperfect condition of the underbasals in 

 Glyx)tocrinus^ as opposed to the moderately large size of the same 

 pieces in Glyptaster, and in that the rays of the former were twice 

 subdivided in the body, with simple undivided arms, while the 

 latter had but a single division in the bod3^ A comparison of all 

 the species that have been referred to Glyptocrinus, shows con- 

 clusively that these supposed distinctions are not borne out by 

 the facts. Hall's so-called Glyj)tocr. O^Nealli has well defined 

 underlmsals, and the second branching of the ray takes place in 

 the free arms, while the rays in Glyptocr. nobilis divide at least 

 three times in the body, and on the other hand in G. Dyeri Meek, 

 the second bifurcation takes place in the arms. We have placed 

 G. O^Nealli Hall, G. Richardsoni and G. gracilis Wetherby, 

 G. Baeri Meek, and G. cognatus Miller, under Reteocrinus 

 Billings, and should have proposed G. nobilis the type of a new 

 genus, if we had before us good specimens instead of figures of 

 casts in which neither basal nor anal plates are shown. The high 

 dome, the anal tube, the large number of arms, and its occurrence 

 in a different geological horizon suggests very strongly to our mind 

 its generic distinctness. 



Glyptocrinus is one of the oldest forms of the Rhodocrinidse, 

 and is the forerunner and type of a little group of Silurian Crinoids, 

 which are readily recognized by their obconical form ; the promi- 

 nent rounded ridges that follow the radial series of the calyx, 

 '.coking like recumbent arms ; the beautifully striated surface, and 

 the character of the arm structure. The arms in all of them 

 rise from the edge of the vault, forming uninterrupted prolonga- 

 tions of the elevated ridges of the calyx, and the radial plates pass 

 into arm plates so gradually, that it becomes almost impossible to 

 discern where the cal^^x terminates and the arms begin. Zittel 

 has arranged these genera into a distinct family and we should 

 follow his example if we had not discovered that the same charac- 

 ters exist among the Actinocrinidse, and indeed — what is more 

 significant — among genera with five, four and three basals, but 

 only in Silurian types, thus indicating that the characters above 

 noted represent probably a younger stage of familj^ development. 



Glyptocrinus differs from Glyptaster in having rudimentary 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 361 



instead of moderately developed underbasals, in not having the 

 first anal plate on a level with the first radials, and in the arms, 

 which in Glyptocrinus are composed of single joints, instead of 

 two rows of interlocking pieces as in Ghjptaater. Reteocrinus 

 differs in the size of its underbasals, the deeplj^ depressed inter 

 radial spaces, the irregular arrangement, and exceedingly large 

 number of interradial and interaxillar}- plates, and that the raj-s 

 are not connected laterally, but, all the waj' up from the basals, 

 separated by small interradial pieces. 



We propose for Glyptocrinus the following : 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx obconical to subglobose, 

 its symmetry almost perfectly pentahedral. Surface ornamented 

 with radiating striae in form of elevated ridges, which divide into 

 numerous triangular impressed areas. The ridges passing along 

 the radial portions are rounded, nearl}' as wide as the arm joints, 

 and appear like arms that are soldered into the bod}'. The arms 

 rise verticall}' from the edge of the vault, forming undisturbed 

 continuations of the ridges of the calyx, and the higher radial 

 plates pass imperceptibly into arm plates. 



Underbasals five, rudimentary — perhaps sometimes obsolete — 

 entirel}^ hidden from view by the column, and filling only a small 

 portion of the basal concavity. Basals five, of uniform size, small, 

 scarcely extending to the sides of the bod}', slightly concave for 

 the attachment of the column. Primary radials 3X5, the lower 

 series somewhat larger, nearly similar in form ; the second 

 hexagonal ; the third pentagonal in outline, and supporting on 

 its upper sloping sides the secondary radials. The number of 

 secondary radials varies with the species, but, as a general rule, it 

 might be asserted, that in species with a third order of radials or 

 a second division within the body, there are only two secondarj^ 

 radials, while in species in which the second bifurcation takes 

 place in the free arms, their number is much greater. Species of 

 the latter kind sometimes have six, eight or more, and these are 

 succeeded to the last bifurcation bj' three, four or more free 

 plates. The tertiary radials, where they exist, are as variable in 

 number as those of the secondar}- order. There ma}- be within the 

 same species one, three or more of these plates soldered into the 

 body, or they all may be free plates, depending on the age of the 

 individual. 



Arms twenty, rising upright, almost verticallj' from the last 




362 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



radial, long, slender, simple from the second division, rounded on 

 the outer side, and composed of a single series of short, some- 

 what wedge-shaped pieces, of which each one supports at its 

 larger end a pinnule. Pinnules very slender, alternately and very 

 closely arranged, the proximal ones fixed in the body walls, the 

 first generally given off from the second secondary radials. 



Interradial arese occupied by a large number of pieces, 

 arranged in four or more series, with one plate in the first, two in 

 the second, and generally three in each succeeding series. The 

 posterior or anal area differs from the others in being a trifle 

 wider, and having three plates instead of two in the second and 

 all succeeding series. The median row generally consists of 

 larger plates, and these elevated above the level of the others. 

 The first anal, like the first interradial plate, rests upon the upper 

 sloping side of the first and between the second radials. Inter- 

 axillary plates from one to ten, with a less number in species in 

 which the last bifurcation takes place in the body. 



Vault scarcely elevated above the horizon of the arm bases ; the 

 interradial regions somewhat depressed ; composed of numerous 

 very small, convex plates. The apical dome plates not well 

 defined ; anal aperture directlj- through the vault, excentrie. 



Column round, of medium size ; central canal small, distinctly 

 pentagonal. 



Geological Position, etc. — Glyptocrinus, as amended by us^ 

 occurs exclusively in the Lower Silurian at the age of the Trenton 

 and Hudson River groups, and apparently only in America. 



We recognize the following species : — 



1879. Glyptocrintis angularis Miller and Dyer. Jour. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., p. 5, 

 PI. 1, fig. 10. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 



1847. Glyptocr. decadactylus Hall. Type of the genus. Paleont. N. York, i, p. 

 281, PI. 77, figs. 1 a^f, and PI. 78, figs. 1 a-u; also Geol. Rep. Ohio, 

 Paleont., i, p. 30, PI. 2, figs. 5 a, b; Zittel, Handb. der Palaeont., i, p. 375, 

 figs. 262. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 



1872. Glyptocr. Dyeri Meek. Proe. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 314 ; also Geol. Rep. 

 Ohio, Paleont., i, p. 32, PI. 2, figs. 2 a, b (not 2 c). Hudson River gr. Cin- 

 cinnati, 0. 



1855 (?) Glyptocr. fimbriatus Shumard. Geol. Rep. Missouri, by Swallow, pt. ii, p. 

 194, PI. A, figs. 10 a, b. Trenton gr. Cape Girardeau, Mo. 

 This species evidently does not belong to Glyptocrinus, description and figure 

 are too imperfect to place it correctly. 



1874. Glyptocr. Fornshelli S. A. Miller. Cincin. Quart. Journ. Sci. Hudson River 

 gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 




1881,] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 363 



1861 (?) Glyptocr. nobilis Hall. Rep. of Progress, Geol. Rep. Wis., p. 21 ; also 20th 



Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 1867, p. 21, PI. 10, figs. 9, 10. Niagara 



gr. Racine, Wis. 

 (See our remarks under Glyptocrinas and Lampterocrinus.) 

 1857. Glyptocr. ornatus Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada (Rep. of Progress), p. 260 ; 



Ibid., 1859, Decade iv, p. 60, PI. 9, figs. 2 a, b. Trenton limest. Ottawa, 



Canada. 

 1872. Glyptocr. parvus Hall. Desc. New Crin., etc., pt. i, fig. 17, (without descrip- 

 tion): 24th Rep. N. York St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 207, PI. 6, fig. 17; Meek, 



1873, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Paleont., i, p. 36, PI. 2, figs. 4 a, b. Hudson River gr. 



Cincinnati, Ohio. (Perhaps a young G. decadactylus.) 

 1857. Glyptocr. priscus Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada (Rep. of Progress), p. 257; 



also, 1859, Ibid., Decade ir, p. 56, PI. 7, figs. 1 a-f. Trenton limest. 



Ottawa, Canada. 

 1857. Glyptocr. ramulosus Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada (Rep. of Progress), p. 258 ; 



1859, Ibid., Decade iv, p. 57, PI. 7, figs, a-f and PI. 8, figs. 1 a-e. Trenton 



limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 1875. Glyptocr. Shaffer! S. A. Miller. Cincin. Quart. Journ. Sci., vol. ii, p. 277 : 



Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. Hist., 1880, Oct., p. 3, PI. 7, fig. 3. Hudson River 



gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 If this is a Glyptocrinus, it evidently is a very young specimen. 

 Syn Glyptocr. Shafferi var. Germanus Miller. Journ. Cincin. Soc. Nat. 



Hist., 1880, Oct., p. 3, PI. 7, fig. 2. 

 *1872. Glyptocr, sabglobosas Meek. (Glyptocr. Dyeri var. subglobosus) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 314; also Geol. Surv. Ohio, Paleont., i, p. 34, PI. 2, 



fig. 2 c. Hudson River gr. Cincinnati, Ohio. 

 We take this to be an independent species, and not a variety of G. Dyeri, it 



may possibly prove to be a Eeteoorinus. 



2. ABCH.5:0CRINTJS Nov. gen. 

 (apxaiog ancient, xplvov a lily.) 



Among the species described in the Canada Report by Billings 

 as Rhodocrinus and Glyptocrinus, there are several which cannot 

 be brought under either of these, or any other known genus. 

 They differ from Glyptocrinus in their larger size, their surface 

 ornamentation, in having the first radial plates separated by 

 interradials, in their shorter and branching arms, and in having 

 them constructed of a double series of wedge-form pieces. They 

 differ from JReteocrinus in having smaller underbasals, in having 

 the interradial plates systematically arranged, of a less number,and 

 larger size, and also in the arm structure ; from Rhodocrinus in 

 the general form of the bod}', in the large number of secondary 

 radials, and the elevated ridges passing gradually and vertically 

 into arms, which do not spring off laterall}' from the body as in 

 the latter genus. 




364 PROOBEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



We propose for this little group, which is one of the oldest of 

 the known Crinoids, the name '■'■ Archseocrinus " and make Billings' 

 Gli/piocrtjius lacunosus the type of the genus. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calj^x large, pear-shaped, sometimes 

 obcjonical ; plates smooth or granulated ; the radial plates with 

 keel-like elevations along their median line, but less prominently 

 than in Glyptocrinus, and the earinse narrower. 



Fnderbasals five, pentagonal, rather small and rarely extending 

 beyond the column. Basals five, hexagonal, with a truncate upper 

 side, supporting the first radial plates. Primary radials 3 X 5, of 

 medium size, gradually decreasing upward, width and height 

 about equal. They support two rows of secondary radials of three 

 to four plates in each row, which are followed in the same line by 

 the arm plates, all further divisions of the rays taking place in 

 the arms. The ra3'S are widely separated by large interradial 

 areae. Arms short, slender, the branches divergent ; composed 

 of two rows of cuneiform pieces, alternately arranged and inter- 

 locking. Interradial areas large ; resting directly upon the upper 

 truncate side of the basals, and passing gradually into vault 

 pieces. The plates of the two proximal series are generally of 

 equal size, all succeeding ones are much smaller. There are two 

 plates in the second series in all five areas, those at the posterior 

 side are probably a little wider. Interaxillaries represented by 

 one or more plates. 



Vault and anus unknown. Column round. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Archseocrinus is onl}-^ known from 

 the Lower Silurian of America. 



We place here the following species : — 



*1857. ArohsBocrinus lacunosus Billings. Type of the genus. (Glyptoor. lacunosus) 



Geol. Rep. Canada (Rep of Progress), p. 261; Ibid., 1859, Decade iv, p. 61, 



PI. 8, figs. 3 a-e. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 *1857. Archaeocr. marginatus Billings. (Glyptocr. marginatus) Geol. Rep. Canada. 



(Rep. of Progress), p. 260; lb., 1858, Decade iv, p. 69, PI. 9, figs. 1, 1 a. 



Trenton liraest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 *1857. Archaeocr, miorobasilis Billings, (Thysanocr. — Bhodocr. — microbasilis) 



Geol. Rep. Canada (Rep. of Progress), p. 264; Ibid., 1859, Decade iv, p. 63, 



PI. 6, fig. 2. Trenton limest. Ottawa, Canada. 

 •••1857. Archaeocr, pyriformis Billings. (Thysanocr.— Rhodoor.— pyriformis) Geol. 



Rep, Canada (Rep. of Progress), p. 262 ; Ibid., 1869, Decade iv, p, 61, PI, 6, 



figs, 1 a-d. Trenton limest, Montreal, Canada. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 365 



3. RETEOCRINTJS Billings. 



1859. Billings. Geol. Rep, Canada, Decade iv, p. 63. 



Syn. Glyptocrinus (in part), Hall 1866 and 1872 ; Meek 1873. 



Among the species described by Hall under Glyptocrinus, there 

 is one — Gl. O^Nealli — which in several important characters differs 

 from his typical form. It has well-developed uuderbasals, ver}"^ 

 large basals, a pentagonal stem, and exceedingly depressed inter- 

 radial and anal regions, peculiar radial plates, etc., in all of which 

 characters it agrees with the genus Reteocrinus Billings, which was 

 described from imperfect material, and altogether misunderstood 

 by its founder. According to Billings, the calyx consists of a 

 reticulated skeleton, composed of incomplete or rudimentary plates, 

 each consisting of a central nucleus with three to five stout pro- 

 cesses radiating from it. Of such plates he describes three rings 

 of five each, corresponding in their position with the underbasals, 

 basals and first radials of other crinoids, and he compares the 

 genus with Cyalhocrinus, Dendrocrinus and similar forms. 



This description at first glance does not agree with Gl. 0''Nealli, 

 but a closer comparison with Reteocr. stellaris Billings shows at 

 once a remarkable similarity in the form and arrangement of these 

 rudimentary plates with the principal plates of the former species, 

 and leads to the conclusion that the interradial plates, which are 

 said to be wanting in Reteocrinus, really exist there, but are so 

 deeply imbedded within the depression as to be hidden from view 

 b}^ the matrix. Even in Glyptocr. (?) O^Nealli, the construction 

 of the interradial spaces is but rarely observed. Looking at the 

 specimens in the condition in which they are generally found, they 

 agree remarkably well with Billings' description. The second 

 and third primary radials appear to be free plates, and the calyx 

 seems to be composed of only three rings of plates like in the 

 Cyathocrinidse. 



The resemblance of Gl. O^Nealli with the genus Reteocrinus, 

 was pointed out already by Meek (Paleont. of Ohio, i, p. 34), but 

 he left the species under Glyptocrinus ; also Wetherby noticed 

 this similarity in the description of his Glyptocr. Richardsoni, 

 and he agrees with us, that both his species and Gl. 0''Nealli 

 should be arranged under Reteocrinus. 



A reconstruction of the genus with Gl. O^Nealli = Reteocr. 

 iVNeoMi, as t^pe, will, we believe, clear up a number of difficulties, 

 and we accordingly propose the following : — 




366 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Revised Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx obconical, its symmetry 

 somewhat bilateral ; interradial and interaxillary spaces pro- 

 foundly depressed ; radial plates highly elevated into sti'ong 

 rounded ridges, which in outer appearance resemble arms ; they 

 bifurcate and follow the secondary radials, whence they pass 

 gradually into free arm joints. 



Underbasals five, well developed, extending beyond the column. 

 Basals five, large, protuberant, hexagonal, the upper side slightly 

 truncate and supporting the first series of interradial plates ; the 

 upper portions inflected, and involved in the interradial depres- 

 sions. 



Radials 3X5, those of different rays separated by interradials ; 

 the first and third pentagonal, the second quadrangular, as long 

 as the two former ones but narrower. The radials are highl}'- 

 elevated, forming a broad rounded ridge, which from the third 

 radial branches upward, following the secondary radials, and 

 downward from the first primar3'^ radials toward the basals. This 

 branching gives to the first and third radials a similar form, only 

 the direction of the branches reversed, the truncation taking 

 place from reversed sides of the plates. Secondary radials four 

 to five in the adult, a less number in young specimens; decreasing 

 in height upwards, quadrangular, shaped like arm joints, and like 

 them giving off pinnules, which in the adult are incorporated ^ 

 within the body. 



Arms ten, long, slender, rounded, bifurcating, composed of a 

 single series of rectangular or slightly wedge-formed pieces, which 

 give off on alternate sides rather stout, closely arranged pinnules. 

 Interradial series resting directly upon the basals, consisting of 

 a very large number of minute pieces, of irregular form, and with- 

 out definite arrangement ; the posterior area wider, with a con- 

 spicuous row of decidedly larger and more prominent special anal 

 pieces along the median part. Interaxillary plates almost as 

 numerous as the interradials, and of a similar character. The 

 peculiar depressed state of the interradial and interaxillary areae, 

 the irregularity with which their plates are arranged, suggests the 

 possibility that they were adapted to expansion by the animal. 



Vault composed of numerous, \&vy small and convex pieces, 

 with an elevation running to each arm base ; the plates in the 



^ See our remarks upon fixed pinnules in our general notes upon the 

 Sphseroidocrini dae . 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADKLPHIA. 36t 



median part, which probabl}' include the apical plates, somewhat 

 larger. Anal aperture directly through the vault, small, sub- 

 central. 



Column subpentagonal, its lateral faces but little depressed ; 

 central canal rather large. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Eeteocririus belongs to the age of the 

 Trenton and Hudson River groups, and is only found in America. 



We place here the following species : — 



■■■1872. Beteoorinus Baeri Meek. (Glyptocr. Baeri) Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, iii 



(Ser. 3), p. 260 ; also 1873, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Palaeont., p. 37, PI. 2, fig. 1 a, b. 



Upper part of Hudson Riv. gr. Richmond, Ind. 

 *1881. Eeteocrinus cognatus S. A. Miller. (Glyptocr. cognatus) Journ. Cincin. 



See. Nat. Hist. (April No.), p. 7, PI. 1, fig. 5. Hudson River gr. Middle- 



toirn, Ohio. 

 *1859. Beteocr. fimbriatus Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada, Decade iv, p. 65, PI. 9, 



figs. 3 a, b, c. Hudson River gr. Island of Anticosti. 

 *1881. Beteocr. gracilis Wetherby. (Glyptocr. gracilis) Now in press. Cincin. 



Journ. Nat. Hist., PI. ii, figs. 2, 2 a. Hudson River gr. 

 «1866. Beteocr. O'Nealli Hall. Proposed type of the genus. (Glyptocr. O'Nealli) 



Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 2 ; also 24th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 206, 



PI. 5, figs. 18, 19; Meek, 1873, Geol. Rep. Ohio, Paleont., i, p. 34, PI. 2, figs. 



3 a, b, c. Upper part of the Hudson River gr. Lebanon, 0. 



*1880. Beteocr. Bichardsoni Wetherby. (Glptocr. Bichardsoni) Journ. Cincin. 



Soc. Nat. Hist; Desc. New Crin. Cincin. gr., PI. 16, figs. 1 a-e. Hudson 



River gr. Clinton Co., Ohio. 

 *1859. Beteocr. stellaris Billings. Geol. Rep. Canada Dec, iv, p. 64, PI. 9, figs. 



4 a-e. Trenton limestone. Ottawa, Can. 



h. Glyptasterites. 

 4. GLYPTASTEB Hall. 



1852. Hall. Paleont. N. York, ii, p. 187. 



1863. Hall. Trans. Albany Inst., iv, p. 203. 



1879. Hall. 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (ed. ii), p. 133. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont,, i, p. 375. 



The genus Glyptaster is involved in some confusion. It was 

 founded upon a specimen from the Niagara group of New York, 

 which Hall named Glyptaster hrachiatus. In the type specimen, 

 the plates of the calyx are altogether obscure except possibly the 

 basals, which were stated to be five in number. The specimen 

 further showed five highly elevated ridges along the radial por- 

 tions of the calyx, and ten long, slender arms, which are com- 

 posed of a double series of interlocking joints, and spread out 




368 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



horizontally at right angles to the -walls of the body, without 

 bifurcations, and, according to figure, without pinnules. 



Judging from this description, the double-jointed arms are the 

 only characters which distinguish the genus from Glyptocrinus. 

 The next two species referred to Glyptaster were O. occidentalis 

 and G. inornatus^ both described by Hall from the Niagara gr. of 

 Waldron, Ind. In these specimens, which are found rather 

 abundantlj'^, only the calyx was preserved, while the vault and 

 arms remained unknown, thus leaving it somewhat doubtful 

 whether the two Waldron species may not be generically distinct 

 from the New York form. 



Glyptaster is closely allied to Eucrinus Angelin, indeed so 

 closely, that we have some doubt whether the two should not be 

 altogether united instead of being separated subgenerically, as 

 now pursued by us. So far as known, the latter form differs onl^^ 

 in having tertiary radials and additional arms. It is possible that 

 Glyptaster penfangularis Hall and Glyptocr. armosus McChesney 

 belong to the subdivision, the two species are only known from 

 internal casts, which are unreliable for purposes of identification, 

 unless accompanied by a cast of the external mould. 



In a ver}' interesting specimen of Glyptaster inornatus, kindly 

 loaned us by Mr. Wm. F, Gurley, of Danville, 111., and the only 

 specimen known to us in which the vault and anal aperture have 

 been found preserved, we notice in two of the rays on the side 

 toward the interradial spaces, and enclosed by them, a highly 

 elevated fixed pinnule. The specimen is of comparatively large 

 size, and as the interradials in this species have no conspicuous 

 surface markings, these pinnules are readily recognized. Both 

 are given off from a first secondar}'^ radial, which thereby takes 

 the form and aspect of a bifurcating plate. The first joint of the 

 pinnule is rather large, and the ridge or elevation upon the plate 

 is about one-half the width of that upon the radials. Two more 

 joints follow, likewise enclosed within the body walls, and having 

 a ridge equally conspicuous, though narrower. From the first 

 joint of the pinnule is given off another or secondary pinnule, 

 fixed like the other but more slender, and composed of at least . 

 two joints. The first plate of the primary pinnule has altogether 

 the appearance of a tertiary radial, and is given off in a like man- 

 ner, but the succeeding plates, though somewhat larger than 

 common, resemble more those of ordinary pinnules, or may be 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3G9 



described as intermediate between fixed pinnule plates and radials. 

 This is but an abnormal case, but it gives some idea how in the 

 course of time, among species, bifurcating radials became devel- 

 oped from pinnule-bearing plates, and additional arms from the 

 proximal pinnules. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Form of calyx subturbinate or obconical ; 

 strongly depressed between the arm bases ; plates delicate, beauti- 

 fully ornamented with granules and stride, the radial portions 

 with strong ridges or costae ; anal area very wide, and hence sym- 

 metry distinctly bilateral. 



Underbasals five, small but not rudimentary, and generally 

 extending beyond the column. Basals five, four of them equal 

 with the upper side angular, the fifth larger with a truncate upper 

 side for the support of the first anal plate. Primary radials .3 X 5 % 

 width and height nearly equal, decreasing in size upward. The 

 third radials support two rows of secondary radials, which are 

 separated bj^ one to three interaxillary plates, the latter being 

 perhaps absent in young specimens. The number of secondary 

 radials, like in the Glyptocrinites^ is variable, differing amono- 

 species, and increasing with age in the individual ; their exact 

 number is rarely ascertained, as they pass gradually into brachials 

 and regular arm plates. 



Arms ten, simple ? and composed of two rows of interlocking 

 pieces with pinnules. 



Interradial areae large, and, compared with the preceding genera 

 composed of fewer and larger plates. There is one plate in the 

 first series, which rests between the two upper sides of two first 

 and between two second radials ; two in the second series, on a 

 level with the third radials, with much smaller plates above, which 

 connect with the interradial portions of the dome. 



Anal area distinctly wider. The first anal plate resting upon the 

 truncate posterior basal, and between two adjoining first radials ; 

 there are three plates in the second, and four or five in each suc- 

 ceeding series. Above the level of the third primary radials the 

 plates are bent somewhat inward, the anal area is in the middle 

 elevated into a low ridge, at the sides depressed. 



The vault which is only known in Glyptaster inornatus is 

 decidedly pentalobate, and resembles DoryciHnus in the anal 

 region. Anal opening excentric, protruding and reaching some- 

 what beyond the limits of the vault, not extended into a tube. 



25 




310 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Apical dome plates well defined but somewhat displaced, owing 

 to the great number of plates which surround the anus. Radial 

 regions of the dome prominent, in form of five high ridges which 

 bifurcate, sending a branch to each arm. They are composed of 

 two rows of rather large convex and elongate plates, transversely 

 arranged, which in branching sepai^ate, and pass on as two single 

 rows of plates. 



Interradial dome regions depressed, and composed of small 

 irregular pieces. 



Column round ; central canal of medium size. 



Geological Position, etc. — Glyptaster is known onl^- from the 

 Niagara group, Upper Silurian, of America. 



We recognize the following species : — 



*1861 (?). Glyptaster armosus McChcsney. (Eucalyptocr armosus) Desc. New Pal. 



Crin., p. 95 : also 1867, Glyptocr. (1) armosus, ChicHgo Acad. Sci., p. 23, PI. 



7, fig. 6; Hall, 20th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat, Hist., PI. 10, fig. 11. Niagara 



limest. Racine, Wis. 

 Sj/n. Glytocr. siphonatus Hall. (Not.) 1861, Geol. Rep. Wis., p. 22 ; 20th 



Rep. N. Y. Bt. Cab. Nat. Wst., p. 328, PI. 10. fig. 11. 

 Gl armosus was described from internal casts, and there is some doubt as to 



its specific and even generic character. 

 1852. Glyptaster brachiatus Hall. Type of the genus. Paleont. N. Y., ii, p. 187, 



PI. 41, fig. 4. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 

 1863. Glyptafter inornatus Hnll. Trans. Alb. Inst., iv, p. 205 : also 28t>i R.p. N. Y. 



St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 1879 (ed. ii), p. 134, PI. 14, figs. 1-6. Niagara gr. 



Waldron, Ind. 

 1863. Glyptaster occidentalis Hall. Trans. Alb. Inst., iv, p. 204; al.-'o 20th Rep. 



N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 305, and 28th Rep. 1879 (ed. ii), PI. 18, figs. 



7, 11. Niagara gr. Waldron, Ind., and Racine, Wis. 

 1804. (?) Glyptaster pentangularis Hall. 20th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Na^. Hist., p. 



326, PI. 10, fig. 3 (advance sheets 1864). Niagara gr. Rueine, Wis. 

 The species was described from casts, but probably belongs to this genus. 



Subgenus EUCRINTJS Angelin. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 24. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont., i, p. 375. 



Syn. BJiodocrinus Schultze 1866 (in part). Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 57. 

 Syn. Dimerocrinus (in part) Phillips, 1839 ; d'Orbigny, 1850 and 

 1853 ; Pictet, 1857. 



Eucrinus agrees with Glyptaster in the form of the calj^x, the 

 style of ornamentation, and size and form of underbasals. It 

 also has 3X5 primary radials, and an elevated ridge all along the 

 radial regions, but diff^^ers in having tertiary radials — from one to 

 two or more— and four arms to each ray. There is no departure 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 3Y1 



in the arrangement of the interradial plates, the first anal stands 

 in line with the first radials, and is succeeded bj'' three plates in 

 the second series, and other plates above. 



In all known species, the median row of anal plates is arranged 

 longitudinally, somewhat curved toward the margins, and slightly 

 elevated in form of a ridge above the general level of the other 

 plates, as in the case of Ghjptasler inornatus and several other 

 species. 



We place here Schultze's Rhodocr. quinquelobus, it being the 

 only species of this group in which the construction of the vault 

 is known. The dome is composed of small plates, central dome 

 plate crowned with a short spine, anus excentric, almost lateral, 

 and not prolonged into a proboscis. 



Arms are rather strong, composed of two series of interlocking 

 pieces. 



Column round ; central canal of medium size. 



Geological Position, etc. — Eucrinus has been found in Sweden in 

 rocks of the Upper Silurian, in Germany in the Stringocephalen- 

 kalk of the Eifel. Two of Angelin's species have been referred 

 to our new genus Anthemocrinus. We recognize only the follow- 

 ing species : — 



*I839. Eucrinus ioosidactylus Phillips. (Dimerocr. icosidactylus) Murchison's 



Silur. Syst., p. 673, PI. 17, fig. 5; D'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 



46; Pietet, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 142. Upper Silurian. Dudley, Eng. 

 1878. Eucr. interradialis Angelin. Icouogr, Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 6, fig. 6, and PI. 



19, fig?. 1, 7, 8. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Swe len. 

 1878. Eucr. laevis Angelin. Type of the genus. leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 6, 



figs. 8, 8 a. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Eucr. quinquangularis Angelin. leonogr. Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 10. figs. 5, 



14. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 

 *1867. Eucr. quinquelobus SehuUze. (Ehodocr. quinquelobus ) Eohin. Eifl. Kalk. 



p. 57, PI. 7, tig. 6. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 

 1878. Eucr. oruatus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 6, figs. 7 a, b. Upper 



Silurian, (iothland, Sweden. 

 1878. Eucr. speciosus Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Su°e.. p. 25, PI. 19, figs. 2, 2 a, and 



PI. 23: figs. 7 a, b, and PI. 26; figs, 26, 26 a, an i PI. 27: fig. 2. Upper 



Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



5. DIMEROCRINUS Phillip?. 



1839. Phillips. Murchi«on's Sihir. Syst., p. 674 (in part). 

 1841. Miiller. Monatsber. Berl. Akad., i, p. 208 liii part). 

 1850. D'Orbigny. Prodr. de Paleont., 1, p. 46 (in part). 

 1852. D'Orbigny. Cours. elem. de Paleont., ii, p. 142 (in part). 

 1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 318 (in part). 




372 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palseont., i, p. 368 (in part). 



(Not Pacht, 1853. Verb. Kaiserl. Russ. Gesellscb., p. 262.) 

 Syn. Thysanocrinus Hall, 1852. Paleont. N.York, ii, p. 188. 



(Not Thysanocrinus {Bhodocr.) Billings. Geol. Surv. Canada for 

 1853 to 1856, p. 2o2.) 



The name Dimerocrinus was given by Phillips to two.species 

 from Dudlej", England, which are known as D. decadactylus and 

 D. icosidactylus, and which were figured without specific or 

 generic definition. The genus has been generally accepted, but 

 is since described as having only one ring of plates beneath the 

 radials, and this variously by different writers as composed of 

 either three or five plates. 



We have carefully examined the two species, and find that they 

 both have underbasals. Those of D. decadactylus are placed 

 within a rather deep concavity, formed between the basals and 

 hidden by the column, exactly as some species described and 

 figured by Hall under his genus Thysanocrinus, which we take to 

 be a sj'nonym of Dimerocrinus. Phillips' D. icosidactylus is 

 geuericall}' distinct, and has been referred by us to Eucrinus. 

 Ver}' closely allied is Patelliocrinus Angelin, which Zittel unites 

 with Dimerocrinus; the two genera resemble each other most 

 remarkably, but the former can readily be separated by its three 

 basals and the absence of underbasals. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body small, calyx short, subglobose or 

 conical ; plates not numerous, surface less ornamented than in the 

 preceding genera, smooth or indistinctly granulose ; symmetry 

 bilateral. 



Underbasals five, small, arranged within a concavity, which is 

 nearly or entirely filled by the column. Basals five, four of them 

 equal, angular above ;i the fifth truncate and supporting the first 

 anal plate. Primar}^ radials 3X5; the first almost as large as 

 the second and third together and considerably wider, the two 

 lower sides making an angle, which rests deeply between the 

 basals ; lateral sides short, the first interradial is almost touching 

 the angle of the basal plates ; second radials more or less quad- 

 rangular, wider than high ; the third radials giving off two or 

 three secondary i-adials, of the form of arm plates, of which each 

 one supports an arm. . Pinnules strongs less closely arranged than 

 usuallj" in this family, their joints rounded, two or tlai*ee; times as 

 long; as wide. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 373 



Interradial arese composed of but few plates, the first one large, 

 placed between the second radial s, and leaning partl}^ against the 

 third, with two small plates above. Posterior or anal area wider, 

 the first plate in line with the first radials and of the same size ; 

 it is followed by three plates in the second series and several 

 smaller ones above, the upper ones connecting with the vault. 

 Vault, and form of the anus unknown. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The only three known species are 

 Upper Silurian, from the age of the Niagara group, 



1839. Dimerocrinus decadactylus Phillips. Type of the genu?. Murehison's 



Silur. S^-st., p. (574, PI. 17, fig. 4; d Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. de Paleunt.. i, p. 



46; Piete', Traits dd Paleont., i, p. 368. Upper Silurian. Dudley, Eng. 

 *1852. Dimerocr. liliiformis Hall. (Thysanoor. liliiformis) Palemt. N. Y., ii, p. 



188, PI. 42, figs. 1 a-f. Niagara gr. Lockport, New York. 

 *1852. Dimerocr. immaturus Hall. (Thysanoor. immaturus) Pa'eont. N. Y., ii, 



p. 191, I'l. 42, figs. 4 a-f. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. Y. 



6. LAMPTEKOCEINUS Roemer. 



1860. Roemer. Silur. Fauna West. Tenn., p. 37. 



1863. Hall. Trans. Albany lust., iv, p. 202. 



1868. Hall. 20th Rep., N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 328. 



Syn. Balanocrinus Troost, 1850 (not Agassiz, 1846), Cat. Foss. 

 Tenn. 



Hall, in comparing the genera Glyptocrinus^ Glyptader^ Balan- 

 ocrinus and Lampterocrinus (Trans. Albany Inst., iv, p. 202), 

 considered the last two identical, and that the}' differ from the 

 former in having larger underbasals. He then discriminated in 

 favor of Troost's Catalogue name, but afterwards in the 20th 

 Rep. N. Y. St. Cab., p. 820, he very properly, recognized the 

 priority- of Roemer's name Lampterocrin us. A difference as above 

 stated would scarcely be sufficient to warrant a generic separation, 

 but we think this genus is separable from the other two by other 

 and more important characters than those noted by Hall. Lamp- 

 terocrinus differs from Glyptocrinus in the arrangement of its 

 anal plates, and in having an anal tube ; from Glyptaster in the 

 anal and arm structure, and from both of them in the size of the 

 basals and underbasals, in the form and construction of the vault, 

 and in the pentagonal column. 



Roemer describes Lampterocrinus as having four primary 

 radials, the fourth bifurcating and excavated for the reception of 

 an arm. This is not quite in accordance with our views, we 




374 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



think the so-called fourth radial is an arm-bearing secondary 

 radial, which is given off in a similar manner as is the plate which 

 supports the first arm in Steganocrinus scitlptus (PI. 18, fig. 3); 

 this explains sufficiently the form of the third radials, which are 

 here truncate above instead of axillary as usually. The arms are 

 unknown, but we judge from the enormous size of the so-called 

 arm openings, which form large breaks, that the bodj' in this genus 

 was extended into lateral appendages, and gave off numerous arms. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body oblong, contracted between the arm 

 bases, except the posterior side, which toward the dome bulges 

 considerably, thereb}- producing some irregularity in the general 

 form. Calyx, cup- or urn-shaped, beautifully ornamented with 

 radiating strife. 



Underbasals five, forming a pentagon, the plates of equal size, 

 quadrangular, the sides of the outer angles shorter. Basals five, 

 large, sometimes fully as large as the first radials, four of them 

 equal and angular above, the posterior one considerably higher 

 and its upper side truncate. Primary radials 3(?) X 5, wider 

 than high, all three hexagonal and with truncate upper side, 

 decreasing in size upward ; the third not more than one-fourth 

 the size of the first. Higher orders of radials unknown, but 

 probabh' formed into free raj-s which give off arms laterally. 



The interradial plates extend uninterruptedly into the vault, 

 those of the calyx and vault being undistinguishable ; indeed, in 

 this genus it almost appears as if the interradial pieces of the 

 calyx extend up to the proximal vault pieces. The first inter- 

 radial rests slightly between the upper sloping sides of the first 

 and between the second radials, with a number of series above, 

 composed of two or three plates each. The first anal plate rests 

 directly upon the posterior basal, which is of such great height 

 that the upper side of the anal is horizontally in line with the top 

 of the first interradial. There are three plates in the second and 

 all succeeding series, arranged longitudinally, forming three 

 rows, of which the plates of the median one are wider and marked 

 by an elevated ridge. 



Form of the vault unsymmetrical, bulging at the posterior 

 side, with a subcentral anal tube ; plates rather large and nodose, 

 the radial ones decreasing in size toward the arms. 



The apical dome plates, although not distinguished by size, are 

 readily recognized by their position. Length of anal tube unknown. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 3*75 



Column pentagonal, central canal very small. 

 Geological Foaition, etc. — L ampler ocrinus is only known from 

 the Niagara group of America. 



1S61. lampterocrinus inflatus Hall. (Balancer, inflatus) Geol. Rep. Wis. (Rep. 

 of Progress), p. 22; Lampterocr. inflatus, ISfiS, 20th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. 

 Nat. Hist., p. 328, PI. 10, fig. 6. Niagara gr. Racine, Wisconsin. 

 This species is described from internal casts, but there can be no doubt as to its 

 generic identity ; the sptcific characters, however, are undeterminable. 

 1360. Lampterocr. Tennesseensis Roemer. T^vpe of the genus. Silur. Fauna 

 West. Tenn., p. 3", PI. 4, figs. 1 a, b. Niagara gr. Western Tennessee. 

 Si/n. Balancer, sculptus Troost, 1850. Catalogue name. 



7. SAGENOCEINTIS Angelin. 



1843. Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist. (ser. i), xi, p. 205. 

 1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 323. 



1878. Angelin. Iconogr. Crin. Suec, p. 8. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Palaeout., i, p. 375. 



Syn. Rhodocrinus (in part) Miller, 1821; Actinoerinus (in part) 

 Phillips, 1839 ; Salter, 1859, Olyptocrinus d'Orbigny (not Hall), 

 1850, Prodr., i, p. 46. 



Syn. Megistoerinus Angelin (not Owen and Sliumard), 1878, Iconogr. 

 Crin. Suec, p. 8. 



The genus Sagenocrinus was based upon a species from Dudley, 

 England, which had been referred by Miller to his Rhodocr. 

 verus. and which he believed to occur both in the Subcarboniferous 

 and the Upper Silurian. The Subcarboniferous specimens are 

 now conceded to be distinct, constituting the type of Rhodocrinus, 

 and the}" have in contrast to the Silurian forms the arms con- 

 structed of double joints. The Silurian species, with three 

 underbasals and single arm joints, was separated by Phillips as 

 Acfinocr. expansus, and in 1843 was made by Austin the type of 

 Sagenocrinus. Miller's figure -. p. 106, is evidently ideal, made 

 up from the arms of Sagenocr. expansus, and the body of 

 Rhodocr. verus. The body in the former has perfectly smooth 

 plates, and the latter has certainly not single-jointed arms, as 

 these do not occur in this family beyond the Silurian. Sageno- 

 C7'ini(s differs from Rhodocrinus in having onlj' three underbasals, 

 in the form of the body, and in the arm structure. It is possible 

 that Wirtgen and Zeiler's Rhodocr. gonatodes is a Sagenocrinus 

 if not a Thylacocrinus. The species is only known from casts. 



Austin places Sagenocrinus with the Periechocrinidae, Pictet 

 with the Actinocriniens, Angelin in a family by itself, which he 




3T6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



arranges systematically next to the Taxocrlnidse. It cannot be 

 denied that Sagenocr. expanaus, in its general structure, and par- 

 ticularly in the arms, resembles some species of Taxocrinus, but 

 the body lacks entirely the articulate structure. Zittel places it 

 in a subdivision of the Glyptocrinidae. 



Generic Diagnosis — General form including arms, oblong. 

 Calyx cyathiform ; without ridges along the radial regions, and 

 without marked surface ornamentation ; symmetry slightly bi- 

 lateral. 



Underbasals three, unequal, anchylosed, forming a pentjtgon. 

 Basals five,^ differing somewhat in form, generally four of them 

 acute above, the fifth truncate. Primary radials 3 X 5, of nearly 

 equal size, the first and third of a like form, but reversed. 

 Secondarj'^ radials 4X10, rather large, their upper and lower 

 sides parallel. The upper plate bifurcating, giving off from each 

 side a primary arm — making twenty in all — which at intervals 

 divide again. The branches are toward the inner side of the ray, 

 and remain simple throughout. The arms taper rapidly near the 

 ends, and — if the fragment figured by Angelin, Iconogr., PI. 28, 

 fig. 8, belongs to this genus, of which we entertain some doubt — 

 the upper parts coil spirally inward once or twice. _ They are 

 composed of single joints, which are wide and short, quadrangu- 

 lar, with sutures nearly parallel, except the bifurcating plates 

 which are depressed pentagonal. Pinnules short (Angelin\ 



Interradial spaces not depressed, plates numerous, composed 

 of four or more series of two plates each, very graduall}- decreas- 

 ing in size. The first plate rests deeply between the first radials, 

 almost touching the upper angle of the basals. The first anal 

 plate rests upon the truncate side of the posterior basal, support- 

 ing two plates in the second, and three in the third series. Inter- 

 axillaries one or more. 



General form and structure of the vault not known, but it 

 evidently was elevated near the arm regions, and composed of a 

 large number of small plates. Anus unknown. 



The column, according to Angelin (PI. 21, fig. 8), is tripartite (?) 

 and perforated with a large pentalobate canal. 



* Angelin gives the number of basals (parabasals) as six, which is evi- 

 dently a mistake, nor do we believe that the sixth plate represents an anal 

 plate, as no plate of that kind has ever been observed below the line of 

 radials. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 3T^ 



1839. Sagenocrinus expansus Phillips. (Aotinocr. expansus) Murchison's Silur. 

 Syst., p. 674, PI. 17. fig. 9 ; Austin, 1843, Sagenoor. expansus Ann. and Mag. 

 Nat. Hist., xi (ser. i), p. 205 ; Morris, 1843, Cat. Brit. Foss. (ed. i), p. 58 ; 

 d'Orbigny, 1850, Glyptocr. expansus, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 46; Pictit, 

 1857, Sagenocr. expansus, Traite le Paleont., iv, p. 323; Salter, 1859, 

 Glyptocr. expansus, Silur. Syst. (ed. ii), p. 512, PI. 15, figs. 1, 2; Angelin, 

 1878, Icon. Grin. Suec, p. 8, PI. 15, figs. 6, 8 and (?) PI. 27, figs. 8 a, b and (?) 

 PL 28, fig. 8. Upper Silur. Dudley, England. 

 Si/n. Bhodocr, verus Miller (in part). Nat. Hist, of Crin., p. 106, PI. 1, 

 fig. 1 a. Dudley, Engl. 



c. Rhodocrinites. 

 8. LYRIOCRINUS Hall. 



1852. Hall. Paleont. New York, ii, p. 197. 

 1857. Pictet. Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 329. 



1866. Shumard. Trans. Acad. Sci. St. Louis, ii, p. 379. 



1867. Hall. 20th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 325. 



1879. Hall. 28th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (ed. ii), p. 139. 



Syn. Marsupiocrinites inofPhiW.), Hall 1843. Geol. 4th Distr. New 



York, p. 114. 

 Syn. Rhodocrmus (not Miller), Hall 1863. Trans. Albany Inst., 



p. 198. 



The genus Lyriocrinus was proposed for a species which had 

 been previously described by Hall under 3Iarsupiocrinites. It 

 was supposed to possess only one ring of plates beneath the 

 radials, but when afterwards five small underbasals were dis- 

 covered, it was referred by Shumard (1866) subgenerically under 

 Bhodocrinus, and this arrangement was adopted by Hall. Lyrio- 

 crinus is at least as distinct from Rhodocrin us as either Glyptocrinus 

 or Glyptaster, which those authors acknowledge as genera without 

 question. 



In 1863 — Trans. Albany Inst., p. 198 — Hall described as 

 Bhodocr . melissa a new species from Waldron, Ind., which we 

 have always suspected to be closely allied to Lyriocrinus, and 

 which, as we have lately ascertained to our satisfaction, belongs to 

 that genus. We are indebted to Wm. F. Gurle}^, Esq., of Danville, 

 111., for the loan of some excellent specimens, which enabled us to 

 examine not only the construction of the arms, but also of the 

 vault which was heretofore imperfectly^ known.^ 



Pictet places this genus under the Carpocrinidae, Zittel under 



' In the second edition of the 28th Rep. New York St. Cab., which came 

 to hand after this was written ; also Hall refers that species but paren- 

 . thetically to Lyriocrinus. 




378 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881- 



Angelin's Calyptocrinidae, with which it has some superficial 

 resemblance in the form of the calyx, and in the arrangement of 

 the radial and interradial plates, but from which it is otherwise 

 very distinct. Its closest affinities are with Ripidocrinus Bey rich, 

 in which, however, the arms are very ditferentlj^ constructed. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Form of calyx depressed, subglobose, or 

 nearly hemispherical ; symmetry more or less perfectly equilateral. 

 Plates heavy, their surface flat or sometimes a little concave, 

 smooth, or finely granulose. Yault very low, scarcely rising above 

 the height of the calyx. 



Underbasals five, very small, abruptly and deeply depressed, 

 concealed by the column. Basals five, of uniform size, either 

 heptagonal and supporting upon the upper truncate side the first 

 interradial, or four of them hexagonal, angular above, and only 

 the posterior one truncate for the support of the first anal plate. 

 Primary radials 3X5, of nearly equal size ; the first pentagonal; 

 the second and third hexagonal. The latter is truncate above, 

 and supports within the axil of the secondary radials which are 

 given oflT from the upper sloping sides of the primary radials, 

 a comparatively large, elongate, hexagonal interaxillary plate, 

 which extends to the height of the first arm joints. Secondary 

 radials 2X10, the first large, pentagonal, the second shorter, and 

 supporting the arms. 



Interradial plates four to five, in three series ; the first large, 

 heptagonal ; the two plates of the second series a little smaller 

 than the first, but yet comparatively large ; the third series small, 

 composed of one or two plates, which are enclosed by the secon- 

 dary radials. The anal area is frequently not distinct from the 

 four others, but it has occasionally three plates in the second 

 series. The plates of the lower calyx are of about uniform size, 

 but the last secondary radials, the interaxillary, and the upper 

 series of interradial plates are considerably smaller. 



Vault almost flat, composed of a large number of convex plates, 

 which are depressed in the interradial regions. Anus subcentral 

 or excentric, in form of a strong tube, constructed of similar 

 plates as the vault ; length unknown. Apical dome plates well 

 defined, twice as large as the other vault pieces. Ambulacral or arm 

 passages directed upward, and passing at the edge through the 

 vault. Arms ten, which remain simple, placed wide apart, strong, 

 gradually tapering to the tips, and constructed, from the radials 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 379 



up, of two series of wide and short interlocliing pieces. Arm 

 furrows wide and deep ; pinnules present, but their exact form 

 not known. 



Column round ; central canal small. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Lyriocrinus occurs only in rocks at 

 the age of the Niagara limestone of America. 



We recognize only two species ; L. sculptilis Hall, a third 

 species is described from mere casts, and very doubtful. 



1343. Lyriocrinus dactylus Hall. (Marsupiocrinites dactylus) Type of the genus. 



Geol. Rep. 4th Distr. N. York, p. 114 : Hnll, 1 852, Lyriocr. dactylus, Paleont. 



N. Y., PI. 44, figs. 1 a-g : Pictet, 1857, Traite de Paleont., iv, p. 329, P). 101, 



fig. 12. Niagara gr. Lockport, N. York. 

 1S63. Lyriocr. melissa Hall. (Rhodocr. melissa) Trans. Albany Inst., p. 198; also 



2Sth Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist. (ed. ii), p. 139, PI. 15, figs. 18-22. 



Niigaragr. Waldron, Ind. 



9. RIPIDOCRINUS Beyrich. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont., i, p. 377. 



Syn. Bhodocrinus Goldfuss. Petrefact. Germ., 1, p. 211 ; Agassiz, 

 1835, Mem. Soc. Neuchat., 1, p. 196 ; Muller, 1841, Verhaudl. d. 

 Berl. Akad., i ; Roemer, Verb. Naturh. Verein f. Rheinl., viii, p. 

 358 ; and 1855, Lethaea Geogn., ii, p. 241 ; Pictet, 1857, Traite de 

 Paleont., iv, p. 314 ; Schultze, 1867, Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 53. 



Beyrich's name Ripidocrinus, so far as we now know, was first 

 published by Zittel to include Rhodocr. crenatus Goldf. This 

 species differs very materially in the arm structure from Rhodo- 

 crinus as established \>y Miller. In the general form of the body 

 and the arrangement of the plates, it resembles Lyriocrinus Hall, 

 but the arm structure separates them widely. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx cup- or urn-shaped, sometimes 

 subglobose, lower portions more or less truncate, the basals 

 spread out horizontally from the column ; plates heavj", highly 

 ornamented ; symmetry equilateral. Body extended into free 

 raj'^s with lateral arms. 



TJnderbasals five, closel3" anchylosed, small, forming a pentagon, 

 deepl}' depressed, and gene rail}' hidden from view b}' the large 

 column ; central perforation large, pentalobate. 



Basals five, equal, irregularly hexagonal, the lower side in line 

 with the sides of the inner pentagon ; the lower lateral sides, by 

 which the plates are united, extremely short ; upper lateral 

 margins, which enclose the first radials, unusually long ; upper 




380 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



side truncate supporting the first interradial, and parallel with 

 the lower one. Owing to this construction, the basals have a 

 subquadrangular outline, and the lower angle of the first radials 

 almost touches the upper angle of the underbasals. 



Primary radials 3 X 5, of nearly equal size, the first pentagonal, 

 the second hexagonal, the third again pentagonal, and support- 

 ing two secondary radials (2X10). Tlie first plate larger 

 than the second, the latter axillary, but the sloping sides not of 

 equal width. The longer side, next to the middle of the ray, 

 supports an indefinite number of radials, and these extend into 

 free appendages ; while the other, shorter side, gives off laterally 

 the first arm. There are two of these appendages to each ray, 

 which at the base are connected by one or more interaxillary 

 plates, they are thick, puffy, cylindrical, three or four times as 

 long as the body, decreasing in width upwards. The plates which 

 constitute the outer or dorsal side of the appendages are short, 

 very wide, with parallel sutures, and from them, at certain 

 intervals — from every fourth or fifth plate, and from alternate 

 sides — the true arras arise. The latter are not given off strictly 

 laterally, as the separation from the main trunk actually begins 

 in the median portion of the two or three preceding plates of each 

 order, which show more or less deep oblique incisions. All arms 

 have nearly the same length, and hence do not reach the same 

 general height, those nearer the body are comparatively heavier. 

 The four or five proximal plates of the first arm are laterally con- 

 nected with the main trunks of the ray, the succeeding arms 

 become detached sooner, and the upper ones are free from their 

 base up. Each arm tapers to a sharp point, is composed of two 

 series of interlocking plates, with closely arranged, sword-like 

 pinnules. 



Interradial series composed of six to eight plates ; the first 

 large, heptagonal, supported upon the truncate upper side of the 

 basals, between the first radials and the lower sloping side of the 

 second, thus separating the entire radial series ; the second range 

 is composed of two somewhat smaller plates, the third of two or 

 three pieces, with one or two plates above. The posterior side is 

 but rarely distinct, it has exceptionally three pieces in the second 

 series. 



Vault scarcely rising above the limits of the calyx, slightly ele- 

 vated in the radial regions. It is constructed of an immense 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 381 



number of small irregularl}^ arranged plates, which decrease in 

 size rapidly toward the peripher3\ At the edge of the vault there 

 are twenty ambulacral openings, ten of which are larger and con- 

 necting with the ten appendages, the ten smaller ones with their 

 first lateral arm. Apical dome plates well developed, much larger 

 than the rest of the plates, and more convex. Anus excentric, in 

 form of a simple opening. 



Column heavy, round, sometimes with lateral excrescences; 

 central canal large, pentalobate. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The only known species of this genus 

 occurs in the Stringocephalenkalk of the Eifel. 



1826. Bipidocrinus crenatus Goldfu^s. (Ehodocr. crenatus) Petref. Germ., i, p. 

 211, PI. 64, fig. 3; also Agassiz, 1835, Soc. Neuchat., i, p. 196; Roemer, 

 Verb. Naturh. Verein f. Rheinl., viii, p. 358, PI. 1, fig. 1, and Lethsea Geogn. 

 ii, p. 241, PI. 4, figs. \1, a-b; Pic'et, 185J, Traite de Paleont, iv, p. 314, PI. 

 100, fig. 10: Schultze, 1867, Echin. Eifl. Kalk, p. 53, PI. 7, figs. 1 a-n ; 

 Zittel, 1879, Handb. der Palseont, p. 377, fig. 263. Devonian. Eifel, Germ. 

 Syn. Bhodocr. tessellatus Steininger. Geogn. Beschreibung der Eifel, p. 36. 



10. THYLACOCEINTJS Oehlert. 



1878. Oehlert. Extract du Bull. Soc. Geol. de France (ser. 3), vii, 



(November No.). 



1879. Zittel. Handb. d. Palaeont., i, p. 375. 



This genus was placed by Zittel among his Glyptocrinidae, but 

 it agrees much closer with some species of Bhodocrinus, from 

 which it differs in having very much longer, heavier and undi- 

 vided arms. This difference would perhaps entitle it only to a 

 subgeneric rank, if not the arms in the Rhodocrinidse generally 

 were short, thin and bifurcating. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body large, globular. Calyx inflated at 

 the lower part, somewhat constricted toward the arm regions; 

 plates thin, convex, without special ornamentation ; symmetry 

 almost equilateral. 



Underbasals five, small, forming a pentagonal disk. Basals 

 five, hexagonal, upper and lower sides parallel, the lower resting 

 against the straight sides of the inner pentagon, the upper sup- 

 porting the first interradials. Primary radials 3X5; the first 

 hexagonal ; the second larger than the first ; the third supporting 

 2 X 10 secondar}^ radials, and these in turn the arms. 



Arms heavy, extremel}' long, five or six times the height of the 

 calyx, simple throughout. The proximal joints are single, quad- 




382 PROCEEDINGS OP TEIE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



rangulai", but they change directly into wedge-form, and grad- 

 ually into a double series of interlocking pieces. Pinnules 

 closely arranged. 



Interradials numerous, the lower one resting upon the basals. 

 There are from ten to twelve in the typical species, with a few 

 additional plates at the anal side. 



Dome elevated, composed of a large number of small pieces. 

 Anus and column unknown. 



The only known species is : — 



Thylacocrinus Oehlcrt. Extr. du Bull. Soc. Geol. de France (ser. 3), vii, PI. 1, fig. 1. 

 Devon. St. Germain, France. 



11. ANTHEMOCRINUS nov. gen. 

 (^av&eiiov, a blossom ; Kpivov, a lily). 

 Syn. Eucrinus Angelin. (in p&,rt). Iconogr. Crin. Suec. 



Among the species described by Angelin under Eucrimis, 

 there are two which differ materially from the rest in having only 

 two primar}^ radials, a single interradial, and this plate resting 

 directly upon the basals ; also in the arm structure. These 

 characters, in our opinion, are sufficient to justify the removal of 

 the species from Eucrinus^ and we propose to establish for them 

 the genus Antheviocrinus, with Angelin's Eucr. venustus = 

 Anthemocrinus venustus as type. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Calyx depressed, subglobose, composed of 

 comparatively few plates, which in both known specimens are 

 convex and striated. 



Underbasals five (Angelin), small. Basals five, large, subequal, 

 hexagonal, the upper side truncated for the support of an inter- 

 radial plate. Primary radials 2 X 5, both pentagonal, wider 

 than high, of nearly equal size and similar form ; the first and 

 second meeting by straight margins. The second plate supports 

 upon each sloping side a single secondary I'adial, which in turn 

 supports a heavy arm, this soon divides, sometimes a second 

 time, and the branches after each division are half as large as the 

 arm below. All the arms and branches, from the base up, are 

 composed of two rows of joints, alternately arranged, very slightly 

 interlocking. The first arm joints are enclosed within the body 

 walls by one or two interbrachial plates. The branching of the 

 arms and the whole arm structure is very similar to that of 

 Periech ocrin us. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 383 



There is properly only a single plate in each interradial area, 

 and this, as stated, rests upon the truncate upper side of the 

 basals between both primary radials, and extends to the arm 

 bases. It is the largest plate of the entire calyx, hexagonal, 

 higher than wide, and supports upon its upper side — between 

 the arms — the interbrachial plates above mentioned. The anal 

 area, if we interpret Angelin's figure correctly, differs in having 

 above its first plate a row of smaller plates, longitudinally 

 arranged as in Glyptaster and Eucrinus, and these support the 

 anus. 



Vault and anal aperture unknown. Column round. 

 Geological Position^ etc. — The two known species are from the 

 Upper Silurian of Sweden. 



* Anthemoorinus minor Angelin. (Eucr, minor) Icon. Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 15, 



fig. 5, Upper Silurian. iJothland, Sweden. 

 . * Anthemocr. venustus Angelin. Type of the genus fEucr. venustus\ Ic^n. 

 Crin. Suec, p. 25, PI. 15, figs. 7, 16. Upper Silurian. Gothland, Sweden. 



12. EHODOCRINtrS Miller. 



1821. Miller. Natur. Hist, of the Crinoidea, p. 106. 



1835. Agassiz. Mem. Soc. Sci., Neuchat,, i, p. 196. 



1841. Miiller. Monatsb. Berl. Akad., i, p. 209. 



1843. Austin. Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., i, p. 109. 



1850. D'Orbigny. Prodr. de Paleont, i, p. 1C4. 



1853. De Koninck and Lelion. Recher. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 103, 



1855. Roemer. Lethaea Geogn. (Avisg. 3), p. 240. 



1855. Wirtgen and Zeiler. Verb. Naturh. Verein f. RheinL, xii, p. 11. 



1858. Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 556. 



1861. Hall. Bost. .Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 322. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont, i, p. 376 



{'Sot Bhodoerinm Goldf. 1826, Petref. Germ, i, p. 312 ; nor Billings, 

 1859, Geol. Rep. Canada, Decade iv, p. 61 ; nor Schultze, 1867, 

 Echin, Eifl. Kalk, p. 53 ; nor Roemer, 1851, Verb. Naturh. 

 Verein f. Rheinl., viii, p. 358), 

 Syn. Acanthocrinus F. Roemer. 1850, Neues Jahrb. f. Mineralogie 

 p. 79 ; Miiller (Wirtgen and Zeiler) 1855, Verh. Naturh. Verein, 

 xii, p. 8 ; Pictet, 1857, Traite de Paleont, iv, p. 100, Hall, 1862, 

 (subgenus of Bhodocrinus) 15th Rep. N. T. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., 

 p. 125. 



Rliodocrinus verus, according to Miller, occurs in both the 

 Mountain limestone and in the Upper Silurian, and it was said to 

 have three basal plates. As we have before shown, Miller con- 




384 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



founded two very different species, which have since been 

 recognized as distinct genera. The Silurian form, with three 

 underbasals and single arm joints, is now known as Sagenocr- 

 expansus ; the Carboniferous form, which took Miller's specific 

 name, is universally regarded as the type of Ehodocrinns^ having 

 five underbasals instead of three, and the arms composed of two 

 rows of interlocking plates. 



Before the true number of underbasals in Rhodocrinus was 

 ascertained, Phillips, in 1836 proposed for some allied species, in 

 which he discovei'ed five proximal plates, the genus Gilhertso- 

 crinus, but these species for other reasons have since been 

 referred to Ollacrinus, which was proposed by Cumberland in 

 1826. Bhodocr. crenatus Goldfuss has been referred to Eipido- 

 crinus^ and Bhodocr. quinquelobus Schultze to Eucriniis. 



The genus Bhodocrinus, as now restricted, is decidedl}' Sub- 

 carboniferous. The few Devonian species which we are unable 

 to separate from it bear more or less resemblance to Acantho- 

 crinus Roemer, and have been partly referred to that genus by 

 other writers. We have examined with great care the figures of 

 Acanthocr. longispinus from Niederlahnstein as given by Wirtgen 

 and Zeiler, and some excellent specimens of our own, but 

 have failed to discover any characters ])y which this form 

 may be separated even subgenerically. The spinous projections 

 on the apical plates (basals and first radials) are also found in 

 some of the Subcarboniferous species in all degrees of variation, 

 and are more or less the rule in Ollacrinus. It is even not 

 improbable that Roemer's imperfect type specimen A. longispinus, 

 which was said to be from the Subcarboniferous, is really an 

 Ollacrinus, and generically distinct from the Devonian specimens 

 which Wirtgen and Zeiler identified with that species. 



The two Austins placed Rhodocrinus under the Actinocrinidae, 

 D'Orbigny and Pictet under the Cyathocrinidae, Roemer and 

 Zittel made it the type of a family. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body subglobose to semi-ovate, often 

 wider than high, with a concavity at the base, which frequentl}^ 

 includes not only basals but partly the first radial plates. Calyx 

 constricted toward the arm bases, its symmetry almost perfectly 

 equilateral ; surface of plates from entirely smooth to convex 

 and nodose, or striated with regular nodes or spines on basal, 

 first radial, and first interradial plates. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 385 



Underbasals five, small, spreading horizontally, and hidden 

 by the column, though sometimes slightly visible beyond its 

 periphery, Basals five, equal, comparatively large, heptagonal, 

 upper side truncate. Primary radials 3X4, generally as high 

 as wide, decreasing in size upward, the series separated laterally 

 by interradial plates ; the first heptagonal ; the second from 

 quadrangular to hexagonal, according to the size of the first 

 radials ; the third irregular in form. The latter, in the more 

 depressed Subcarboniferous forms, supports only from one to two 

 secondary radials ; in Devonian species, there are sometimes three. 

 None of the plates project outward, the upper one, which is also 

 the arm-bearing plate, is excavated at its upper edge, and this, 

 together with a similar excavation in the corresponding dome 

 plates, forms an oblong ambulacral passage, two to each ray, 

 which are separated b}- an interbrachial plate. The arms of the 

 difierent rays are widely separated ; they are long, delicate, 

 cylindrical, branching, and constructed of two rows of alternate 

 plates, which interlock from the base up. Pinnules small. 



Interradial and anal areae very wide and closely similar, the 

 latter having sometimes one or two additional plates without dis- 

 turbing the general symmetry of the body. The first plates, 

 which are large, rest upon the truncate upper side of the basals, 

 and laterally between the first radials ; the second and third series 

 consists of from two to three plates each, and the plates are of 

 comparatively large size, those of the succeeding series much 

 smaller, and passing gradually into vault pieces. 



Vault flat, compressed and narrow, owing to the constriction at 

 the upper part of the calyx ; composed of a large number of 

 irregular pieces, among which the apical dome plates are not 

 easily distinguished ; radial portions generally protuberant. Anus 

 excentric, protruding like a proboscis, and consisting of almost 

 microscopic plates, possibly capable of expansion or contraction 

 by the animal. 



Column round, and composed near the body of very uneven 

 plates ; perforation small, pentagonal. 



Geological Position^ etc. — The genus Rhodocrinus ranges from 

 the Devonian to the middle portion of the Subcarboniferous, both 

 in America and Europe. 



We recognize the following species : — 



26 




386 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



1844. Ehodocrinus abnormis McCoy. Carb. Foss. Ireland, p. 180, PI. 26, fig. 3. 

 Mount, limest. Ireland. 



1861. Bhodoor. Barrisi Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 9; also Boat. Journ. Nat. Hist., 



p. 322, PI. 6, figs. 16, 17. Upper Burlington liraest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 St/n. Bhodoor. Barrisi var. divergens Hall, 1861. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 



9; also Best. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 324, PI. 6, fig. 18. 

 A comparison witb the type specimen and with others in our cabinet, proves 



beyond doubt that the original B. Barrisi was described from a very young 



specimen, and this explains fully the additional bifurcation in the variety or 



older specimen. 

 1836. Bhodoor. globosus Phillips. (Actinoor. globosus) Geol. Yorkshire, p. 206, 



PI. 4, figs. 26, 29. Mount, limest. Yorkshire, Engl. 

 1855. (?) Bhodoor. gonatodes Wirtgen and Zeiler. Verb. Naturh. Verein Jahrg., 



xii, p. 12, PI. 3, fig. 3, and PI. 4, figs. 1, 2, and PI. 5, fig. 3 ; Muller, Ibid., pp. 



22, 23, 25, PI. X, fig. 1. Grauwacke. Niederlabnstein, Germ. 

 This species is only known from casts, and may possibly belong to some other 



allied genus. 



1862. Bhodoor. gracilis Hall. (Bhodoor. — Acanthoor. — gracilis) 15th Rep. N. Y. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 127. Hamilton gr. Ontario Co., N. Y. 



1861. (?) Bhodoor. Halli Lyon. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 412, PI. 4, figs. 6 



a, b. Niagara gr. Near Louisville, Ky. 

 This species is certainly not Bhodoorinus, but the type specimen is too imper- 

 fect for accurate diagnosis. 



1850. (?) Bhodocr. longispina A. Roemer. (Acanthoor. longispina) Neues Jahrb. 

 der Mineral'igie, p. 679, PI. 4''; Wirtgen and Zeiler, 1856, Jahrb. Naturh. 

 Verein., xii, p. 8, PI. 2, figs. 1, 2, and PI. 3, fig. 1; also Pictet, 1857, Trait6 

 de Pal6ont., iv, p. 314, PI. 100, fig. 11. Posidomyen Schiefer, Harz. (Roemer). 

 Grauwacke, near Coblenz (Wirtgen and Zeiler). 



1866. Bhodocr. nanus Meek and Worthen. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 254 ; 

 also, 1868, Geol. Rep. III., iii, p. 476. PI. 18, figs. 2, a, b. Lower Burlington 

 limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



1862, Bhodocr. nodulosus Hall. (Acanthoor. nodulosus) 15th Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. 



Nat. Hist., p. 126, PI. 1, fig 8. Hamilton gr. Ontario Co., N. York. 

 1862. Bhodocr. spinosus Hall. l.Hh Rep. N. Y. St. Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 127, Photog. 



Pis., 1876, PI. 1, fig. in. Hamilton gr. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 18S3. Bhodoor. stellaris de Kon. and Leh. Recher. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 109, PI. 



1, figs. 14 a, b, (figured by Cumberland, 1819, as Encrinus). Mount. 



limest. Bristol, Engl., and Tournay, Belg. 

 1853. Bhodocr. uniarticulatus de Kon. and Leh. Recher. Crin. Carb. Belg., p. 



107, PI 1, figs. 13 a, b, c. Mount, limestone. Vise, Belg. 

 1860. Bhodocr. Varsoviensis Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 80. Warsaw limest. 



Warsaw, III. 

 1821. Bhodoor. verus Miller. Type of the genus. Nat. Hist, of Crin.. p. 107, with 



figures; Agassiz, 1835, Mem. Soc. Sci. Neuchat., i, p. 196; Roemer, 1855, 



Lethaea Geogn. (Ausg. 3), p. 241, PI. 4, figs. 2 a-e; Bronn, Ibid. (Ausg. 



I, 2). Mount, limest. Near Bristol, Eng. 



1879. Bhodocr. vesperalis White. Proc. U. S. National Museum, p. 252, PI. 1, figs. 



II, 12. Upper Coal Measures? 30 mibs west of Humbolt, Kans. 



We doubt if this fossil came from the coal measures, neither Aciinocrinvs nor 

 RhodocrinuH have ever been found to occur la'er than the age of the Warsaw 

 limestone. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 387 



1861. Rhodoor. Wachsmuthi Hall. Desc. New Sp. Crin., p. 18. Lower Burlington 



limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1861. Bhodocr. Whitei Hall. Desc. New Sp. Grin., p. 9 ; Best. Journ. Nat. Hist., 



p. 324, Phot. Plates, 1875, PI. 6, figs. 19, 20, 21. 

 Var. barlingtonensis Hall. Desc. New Pal. Crin., 1861, p. 9; also Bost. 



Journ. Nat. Hist., p. .325. Lower Burlington limestone. Burlington, lowii. 

 1858. Bhodocr. Wortheni Hall. Geol. Rep. Iowa, i, pt. ii, p. 556, PI. 9, figs. 8 a, 



b, c. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 



13. OLLACKINUS Cumberland. 



(PI. 18, fig. 2, and PI. 19, fig. 1.) 



1836. Cumberland. Appendix to Reliquiae Conservata. 



1877. Wachsmuth. Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, xiv, p. 135. 



1879. Wachsmuth and Springer. Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila , p. 261. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont, i, p. 375. 



Syn. Gilbertsocrinus Phill. Greol. Yorkshire, pt. ii, p. 207 ; 

 d'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 155 ; Meek and Worth., 

 1866, Geol. Rep. 111. ii, p. 217. 

 Syn. Goniasteroidocrinus Lyon and Casseday. Amer. Joiirn. Sci. 

 and Arts, vol. 28 (ser. 2), p. 233 ; Meek and Worthen, 1869 (Sub- 

 genus of Gilbertsocrinus), Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 7o and 

 1873, Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 389. 

 Syn. Trematocrinus Hall. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 70 ; Meek 



and Worthen, 1860, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 383. 

 Syn. Rhodocrinus (in part) de Koninck and Lehon. Recher. Crin. 

 Carb. Belg., p. 104. 



The form under consideration was first made known by 

 Cumberland in the Appendix to his Reliquiae Conservata, 1826, 

 under the name Ollacrinus. He published no generic diagnosis 

 nor specific name, but gave excellent figures, by which the type 

 represented can be easily identified. It is characterized by a 

 pentamerous figure, concave base, flat vault, excentric anal opening, 

 spiniferous first radials, and by large oval-shaped interradial and 

 anal spaces, with numerous plates. There are two sets of openings 

 in the brachial regions, the largest supported b}' the secondary 

 radials, and the others located nearly above thenj, being smaller, 

 and perforated directly through the centre of pairs of plates in 

 the margin of the vault. 



In 1836, Phillips, in the Geology of Yorkshire, proposed the 

 genus Gilbertsocrinus, and included in it Cumberland's type, 

 which he described as G. calcaratui>, and two other species. 

 His figures are fairly good, but his descriptions are ver}- meagre, 

 and show no essential difference from Rhodocrinus. Thev contain 




388 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



110 allusion to the two sets of openings,' so prominent in his 

 figures, but he apparently considers the upper openings as 

 belonging to " rounded arms, perforated in the centre." 



De Koninck and Lehon,in 1854, declared that both OUacrinus 

 and Gilbertsocrinus were synonyms of Bhodocrinus and ought to 

 be suppressed. 



In 1859, Lyon and Casseday described a new species of this 

 type from the upper Subcarboniferous rocks of Kentucky, and 

 proposed for its reception the genus Goniasteroidocrimis, which 

 is in every essential respect similar to the forms figured by 

 Cumberland and Phillips, with the exception perhaps, that the 

 upper sets of supposed arm openings, instead of being located 

 directly above the ray, as seems to be the case in some of the 

 British specimens, as figured, are situated " midway between the 

 primary radials " or interradiall}-. Their species — the well-known 

 G. tuberosus — was found in excellent preservation, with all the 

 appendages attached, and a good figure of it may be seen in the 

 Greol. Rep. 111., ii, p. 220. Lyon and Casseday took the upper and 

 larger appendages to be arms, five in number, and below and 

 between these, in the " interradial fields," as the}^ say, they found 

 clusters of from five to seven " long, pendulous cilia," bearing 

 delicate pinnules. These " cilia " they afterwards refer with a 

 query to arms. 



A year later. Hall, without any reference to the above descrip- 

 tions, described under the new generic name Trematocrinus a 

 number of species from the Subcarboniferous of the West, of 

 undoubted generic identity with Lyon's species. He, too, con- 

 sidered the interradial appendages to be arms, though he doubted 

 if they could have performed the functions of ordinary arms, 

 and the foramina above the secondary radials he supposed to be 

 openings for fleshy arms or tentacles, not having seen in his 

 specimens any indications of solid arms or even articulating 

 plates. Soon afterwards, however. Hall described from the 

 Devonian of New York his Trematocr. spinigerus (15th Rep. 

 N. Y. St. Cab., p. 128), which has the interradial appendages from 

 the vault, and also long arms like Bhodocrinus from the radial 

 or arabulacral openings. He called the former " summit arms," 

 and the latter " true arms." 



In the second volume of the 111. Geol. Rep., Meek and Worthen 



' Attention was first called to these by Billings, Decade ill, Geol. Surv. Can. 




1881 ] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 389 



gave an excellent description of the genus, and showed that the 

 arms in this type proceed from the radial openings as in other 

 crinoids, and that the interradial appendages are not arms at all. 

 They state that the true arms are always pendant, apparently 

 overlooking Hall's T. spinigeruSj but this is not uniformly the 

 case even in the Carboniferous species, as we afterwards dis- 

 covered in Hall's T. tuberculosus, (see Proc. Phila. Acad. Nat. 

 Sci., 1878, p. 262), whose arms stand erect, and fold over the 

 dome. We also found the ventral furrow of the arms to be always 

 on the inner side of the arm, next to the body, and accordingly 

 on reverse sides in the erect and the pendant arms. It is pos- 

 sible that this feature may warrant a subdivision of the genus, 

 but until we are better acquainted with the arms in the majority 

 of the species we shall not attempt it. 



Meek and Worthen proposed to arrange the British and 

 American species under two sections, based upon the different 

 positions of the so-called false arms, whether placed above the 

 interradial regions as in the latter, or more radial as in the 

 former. We do not attach much importance to this variation, 

 especiall}- in view of our interpretations of the relations and 

 functions of these appendages, besides there is considerable 

 variation in this respect among the American species. The arm 

 openings are in some cases located well under the overhanging 

 margins of the bases of the false arms, in others on either side 

 of them. In no case, however, among American specimens have 

 the false arms been observed to be directly over the ray, as 

 represented in Phillips' diagram of G. bursa, and we are by no 

 means satisfied that such was actually the case in the British 

 species, for sometimes the basals alone are prominent and spinif- 

 erous, sometimes only the first radials, and it is possible that in 

 some cases they have been confounded. 



Some authors, notabl}' Meek and Worthen, object to Cum- 

 berland's name OUacrinus because it w^as not accompanied by 

 any diagnosis or specific name, and give precedence to Gilbertso- 

 crinus, the generic and specific descriptions of which disclose no 

 characters to distinguish the genus from Rhodocrinus, and which, 

 moreover, entirel}^ overlooked the real characteristic features of 

 this type. Cumberland's published figures give a distinct 

 exposition of essential characters, which leave no room for 

 doubt as to the type represented, and under the rules adopted by 




390 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the British Association relative to descriptions by the earlier 

 writers, this entitles the name 0Z^ac7'tnus to priority, which leaves 

 Gilbertsocrinus, Goniaateroidocrinus and Trematocrinus as 

 synonyms. 



The nearest affinities of this genus are with Hhodocrinus, with 

 which it substantially agrees in the structure of the body below 

 the arms, but from which it is conspicuously distinguished by 

 the pseudo-brachial appendages, as well as the size and disposi- 

 tion of the true arms. The two genera are, however, connected 

 through the transition form 0. sjnnigerus Hall, which has the 

 arms and body similar to many species of Rhodocrinus^ yet the 

 pseudo-brachial appendages of Ollacrinus. 



These appendages are an extraordinary and most characteristic 

 feature of the genus, and no trace of any similar structure has 

 been observed in anj^ other crinoid. The precise office of these 

 organs has puzzled all writers hitherto, and must yet remain to 

 some extent a matter of conjecture. Each of the five main 

 trunks contain two longitudinal perforations running a little 

 to either side of the centre, and one of these passes into each of 

 the rounded branches into which the trunk divides, and pierces 

 its centre to the extremity. They have no other opening, and no 

 external furrows of any kind, but are simply ten thickened 

 cylindrical tubes, which join in pairs by their outer walls near the 

 body, where the two together have a transversely flattened 

 elliptic outline. The passages penetrate the body independently, 

 near — and usually somewhat above — the arm openings, though 

 sometimes directly between the openings of the arms of two 

 different rays. Inside the walls they unite with the arm furrows, 

 in a similar manner as the lateral pore passages in Batocrinux, 

 and in view of all the facts, we entertain no doubt, that these 

 openings are of the same nature as tliose which we have called 

 respiratory pores in the Actinocrinida? and Platyci'inida?, and 

 which instead of being simple openings, Avith probably soft parts 

 tittached, are here extended into tubes forming a part of the 

 calcareous test. There are five pairs of these elongated pores, 

 and it makes no material difference whether the}' enter the body 

 a little more radially or interradially, they are placed near the 

 arm bases, and soon connect with the arm passages within the 

 body, as the respirator}- pores in Batocrinus. In many species 

 there are deep depressions in the vault, opposite the base of each 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 391 



appendage, which are paved with a great number of small 

 irregular polygonal plates. It is not at all improbable that these 

 areffi were susceptible of a certain amount of contraction and 

 expansion, and that the}' performed an important function in 

 connection with the tubular extensions, in the introduction and 

 expulsion of water. 



Generic Diagnosis. — Body generally large, subglobose, about 

 equilaterally pentamerous ; plates of the calyx convex to nodose 

 or spiniferous ; base concave, vault flat, its margins extended 

 into five free tubular appendages, situated between, or partly 

 above the rays. 



Underbasals five, small, pentagonal, forming a flat impressed 

 pentagon, entirely involved in the basal concavity, and some- 

 times hidden by the column. Basals five, hexagonal or obtusely 

 heptagonal, truncate above, and like the first radials often 

 produced into sharp spines, which extend obliquelj^ downward 

 Primary' radials 3X5, the first larger than the rest, heptagonal, 

 the second hexagonal, the third hexagonal or heptagonal and 

 supporting on its upper sloping sides the secondary radials, in 

 two series of two to three plates each, which' diverge rapidly, 

 arching over the interradial spaces, and completel}^ separating them 

 from the vault. The last secondaiy radial supports the small 

 delicate arms, its inner sloping side being indented by the arm 

 opening, while its outer side bears an additional plate, which 

 meets with a similar plate of the adjoining ray, and the two 

 together form the base of a false arm. 



Interradial and anal areae scarcely distinguishable from each 

 other; large, oval, sometimes slightly depressed. They are 

 occupied b}^ from ten to eighteen pieces, of which there is one 

 large hexagonal plate in the first range, resting on the truncate 

 upper side of the basals, and between two first radials. This is 

 succeeded by from three to five ranges, the second, third and 

 fourth consisting of three — rarely four — plates, and those above 

 of two and one plate. Interaxillary plates two to eight or ten, 

 the upper ones connecting with the vault and the false arms. 



Arms four to nine to the ray, according to the species, the 

 number of primary arms being perhaps restricted to four, 

 the additional ones being produced by branching very close to 

 the body. They are slender and delicate, composed of a double 

 series of interlocking plates, and they bear minute pinnules 




392 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



The arm openings are situated in rather large, deep depressions, 

 lying under the edges of the pseudo-brachial appendages, but only 

 when the latter are very large, on either side of them when they 

 are small. In the latter case, so far as observed, the arms are 

 erect and folded over the dome, in the former pendant, but in 

 either case the ambulacral furrow lies to the inner or under side 

 of the arms, close to the body, showing the pendant position to 

 be the normal one. 



Vault depressed, generally flat, composed of numerous, some- 

 what convex, polygonal plates, among which the apical and 

 radial dome plates may be readily distinguished by their greater 

 size. The interradial regions are occupied by a large number of 

 small pieces, which are generally found more or less depressed 

 just in front of the base of each false arm. The structure is 

 such that these parts may have been flexible and capable of con- 

 traction or expansion. Anal opening directly through the vault, 

 not protruding, situated about midway between the centre and 

 the margin. 



The margin of the dome above, and generally between the arm 

 bases of different rays, is extended into five pseudo-brachial 

 appendages, which near the body are comparatively heavy, 

 nearl}^ solid, transversely elliptic, composed of two rows of 

 semi-elliptical joints, rounded on the outside, and joining in the 

 middle by straight, vertical faces. At from four to eight joints 

 from the body, each trunk divides into two rounded branches 

 tapering to a point, which are perforated throughout their length 

 by a small central passage, these passages enter the body in 

 pairs through the main appendages, and thence diverge toward 

 the arm furrows, with which they unite. There are no other 

 openings, nor any external furrows, these organs being simply 

 heavy calcareous tubes, with a jointed structure like that of the 

 column. 



Column round, composed of joints alternately larger and 

 smaller ; central perforation of medium size, pentagonal. 



Geological Position^ etc. — Ollacrinus is essentially a Subcarbon- 

 iferous genus, all the known species being from rocks of that age, 

 except a single species which is from the Hamilton group of New 

 York, and this is a transition form. It occurs both in Europe 

 and America. 



We recognize the following species : — 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 393 



*I836. Ollacrinus bursa Phill. (Gilbertsocr. bursa) Geol. Yorkshire, p. 207, PI. 



4, figs. 24, 25; Austin, 1842, Rhodocr. bursa, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., 



p. 109: also d'Orbigny, Gilbertsocr. bursa, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 165. 



Mount, limest, England. 

 «1836. Ollacr. calcaratus Phill. (Gilbertsocr. calcaratus) Geol. Yorkshire p. 207, 



PI. 4, fig. 22 ; d'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 155 ; Austin, 1842, 



Shodocr. calcaratus, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., p. 109. Mount, limest. 



England. (Cumberland's original figure in the Reliquiae Conservata, 1826, 



represents this species.) 

 *1860. Ollacr. fiscellus Meek and Worth. (Trematocr. fiscellus) Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 383 ; also 1865, Gilbertsocr. (Goniasteroidocr.) fiscellus, 



Ibid., p. 167; also 1866, Gilbertsocr. fiscellus, Geol. Rep. III., ii, p. 222, PI. 



15, fig. 5. Lower Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1836. Ollacr. mammilaris Phill. (Gilbertsocr. mammilaris) Geol. Yorkshire, 



p. 207, PI. 4, fig. 23; also d'Orbigny, 1850, Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 155; 



Austin, 1842, Bhodocr. mammilaris, Ann. and Mag. Nat. Hist., p. 109. 



Mount, limest. England. 

 1869. Ollacr. obovatus Meek and Worth. (Goniasteroidocr. obovatus) Proc. 



Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 76 ; Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 391, PI. 4, fig. 6 ; 



Wachsm. and Spr., 1878, Ollacr. obovatus, Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., 



p. 263. Uppermost part of Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 »1860. Ollacr. reticulatus Hall. (Trematocr. reticulatus) Desc. New Sp. Grin., 



p. 9; also Bost. Journ. Nat. Hist., p. 325. Lower Burlington limest. 



Burlington, Iowa. 

 *1860. Ollacr. robustus Hall. (Trematocr, robustus) Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa., 



p. 77. Lower part of Keokuk limest. Nauvoo, 111., and Keokuk, Iowa. 

 1843. (?) 0. simplex Portloek. (Gilbertsocr. simplex) Geol. Londonderry, p. 350, 



PI. 16, figs. 3 and 13. Fermanaugh, Ireland. Mount, limestone. (This 



species may possibly belong to Bhodocrinus, variety Acantbocrinus ; the 



upper portions of the body are not known.) 

 «i862. Ollacr. spinigerus Hall. (Trematocr. spinigerus) 15th Rep. N. Y. St. 



Cab. Nat. Hist., p. 128. Hamilton gr, Devonian. Ontario Co., N. Y. 

 *1869. Ollacr. tenuiradiatus Meek and Worth. (Goniasteroidocr. tenuiradiatus ) 



Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 75; Geol. Rep. 111., v, p. 389, PI. 11, fig. 1. 



Lower Burl, limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 1860. Ollacr. tuberculosus Hall. (Trematocr. tuberculosus) Supp. Geol. Rep. 



Iowa, p. 75; Wachsm. and Spr., 1878. Ollacr. tuberculosus Proc. Acad. 



Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 263. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 

 Si/n Trematocr. papillatus Hall, 1860. Supp. Geol. Rep. Iowa, p. 78. 



Synon. (Wachsm. and Spr., 1878). 

 "1859. Ollacr. tuberosus Lyon and Cass. (Goniasteroidocr. tuberosus, and type 



of that genus). Amer. Journ. Sci. and Arts, vol. 28, (ser. 2) p. 233; 



Wachsm. and Spr., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila., p. 263. Keokuk limest. 



Crawfordville, Ind., and Hardin Co., Ky. 

 1860. Ollacr. typus Hall. (Trematocr. typus, type of that genus). Supp. Geol. 



Rep. Iowa., p. 73; Wachsm. and Spr. Ollacr. typus. Proc. Acad. Nat. 



Sci. Phila., p. 262. Upper Burlington limest. Burlington, Iowa. 




394 PROCEEDINOS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Doubtful Genera. 



The following genera, which evidently belong to the Sphreroicl- 

 oerinida?,aretoo imperfectly defined to be grouped systematically. 



1. (?) CONDYLOCKINTIS Eichwald. 

 1860. Eichwald. Letbfea Rossica, i, p. 612. 



From Eichwald 's description , it is impossible to get a correct 

 understanding of this genus. He describes it as having ten 

 basals, three radials, two rows of plates placed above the 

 radials, and numerous other little plates irregularly arranged ; 

 the plates tumid, and the calyx covered with a membranous 

 integument (?). 



From Eichwald's figure, we are inclined to place the genus with 

 tlie Rhodocrinida?, perhaps in the neighborhood of Thylacocrinus, 

 provided we are right in supposing that it has five small under- 

 basals within the ten so-called basals. We take the ten latter, which 

 are said to be tumid, as representing five basals alternating with 

 the five first radials. There are 3 x ^ primar}-, and evidently 

 two rows of secondary radials, separated by numerous interradial 

 and perhaps interaxillary plates. 



Eichwald has referred to it a single species : — 



1860. Condylocrinus verrucosus Eichwald. Lethaea Rossica, p. 612, PI. 31, fig. 51. 

 Silurian. Russia. 



2. (?) SCHIZOCEIiniS Hall. 



1847. Hall. Palseont. New York, i, p. 81. 



1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palseont., i, p. 371 (Stelidiocrinidae). 



The genus was founded upon very imperfect material, but 

 evidently occupies a position near Glyptocrinus, if not identical 

 with it. It probabl}'^ had, like that genus, small or rudimentary 

 underbasals hidden by the column. 



Hall describes it with five pelvis plates (our basals) ; 2 X 5 

 costals (the first and second radials) ; 1 X 5 scapulars (the third 

 primary radials J ; 1 X 5 brachials or arm plates (according to figure 

 a fourth series of primary radials, but probably longitudinally 

 divided, and represented by two plates forming the first series of 

 secondary radials ) ; and above these a double cuneiform arm plate 

 supporting the hand and fingers, we should say a second series of 

 secondary radials, which support the primary arras. 




I 



I 881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 395 



The interradial areas are composed of several series of two 

 plates each, except the first series which has but one piece, 

 lesting in the upper notch between two adjoining first radials. It 

 is not known whether the anal side is distinct, nor has the dome 

 I'cen observed. 



Arms short, branching, single jointed. Column round. 



These characters, even if correctly interpreted, are not sufficient 

 to distinguish Schizoc7v'nvs from Glyj)tocrinus. We are inclined 

 to think that the type specimen of Sch. nodosus is a young speci- 

 men of some G'/yj>/oer//H/.s', unless, perhaps, Sc/i/zocrm?/.s represents 

 paheontologically an earlier stage of the former. The interradial 

 and interaxillary plates seem to be less developed, the arms 

 are short, simple jointed, and the second division of the ray, which 

 in Glyptocrinus generally takes place in the bod}-, occurs in the 

 free arms. Hall's second species, still more fragmentarv, is 

 l>robabIy a very different thing. 



Geological Position, etc. — Both species are from the Trenton 

 limestone of New York. 



1S47. Schizocrinus nodosus Hall. Palaeont. New York, vol. i, p. 81, PI. 27, figs. 



1 a-p. Trrnton limest. Herkimer Co., New Yoik. 

 1847. (?) Sohizocr. striatus Hall. Palaeont. New York. vol. i, p. 316, PI. 28, figs. 



4 a, b, c. Tren'on limest. Middleville, New York. 



3. (?) SCTPHOCRIiniS Hall (not Zenker, 1833). 



(?) CTJPULOCRINUS D'Orbigny.) 



1847. Scyphocrinus Hall. Palaeont. New York, vol. 1, p. 85. 

 1850. Cupuloerinus d'Orbigny. Prodr. de Paleont., i, p. 23. 



{ScypJiocrinus Zenker, 1833. Beitr. Naturgesch d. Urwald, p 26, 

 PI. 4. and Miinster, Beitr. iii, p. 112.) 



The name l)eing preoccupied by Zenker, d'Orbigny proposed 

 lu its place Cupuloerinus with Scyphocrinus heterocostalis Hall, 

 raid a species of Taxocrinus as the tj'pes. 



The form has been generally considered as closely allied to 

 Schizocrinus. in which we cannot concur. We think d'Orbigny 

 is correct in placing it with — or near — Taxocrinus, but to verify 

 this, better specimens are required, and we will not attempt a 

 generic descrip'tion from the present material. 



(? 1847. Scyphoor. heterocostalis Hall. Palaeont. New York, vol. i, p. 85, fig?. 3 

 a-f. Herkimer Co., New York. 




396 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



4. (?) HADE0CRINTJ8 Lyon. 



1869. Lyon. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. xiii, p. 445. 

 1879. Zittel. Handb. der Palaeont., i, p. 377. 



Syn. (?) Coronocrinus Hall. Palaeont. New York, iii, p. 124. 



The name was proposed for certain crinoidal remains, which had 

 been obtained from the Devonian, near Louisville, Kentucky. 

 The specimens were all fragmentary, but enough is preserved to 

 show a great resemblance to Dolatocrinus, and it seems to us that 

 this form should be, like Stereocrinus, placed subgenerically under 

 it. Hadrocrinus differs from Dolatocrinus in the smaller size of 

 the basals, and in having only two primarj^ radials ; it differs from 

 this and Stereocrinus in the numerous bifurcations within the rays, 

 and in having the arms arranged continuously around the body, and 

 not in groups. The genus Coronocrinus proposed by Hall, which 

 was founded upon mere fragments, is in all probability identical 

 with Hadrocrinus. 



According to Lyon, the body is very large and broad, the calyx 

 low vasiform, the dome hemispherical. Basals three, small, hidden 

 by the column, and only seen when viewed from the inner side. 

 Primar}^ radials 2X5, the second axillary. Higher orders of 

 radials numerous, each one composed of two series, and the plates 

 all forming a part of the calyx. The uppermost plate excavated, 

 and forming with the dome plates a large ambulacral or arm 

 opening. The openings are numerous, arranged continuously 

 around the body, and are at no place separated by interradial pieces. 

 Interradial arese composed of few, three or four pieces, which, like 

 all the radial pieces, are comparatively narrow and long, and of 

 very uniform size throughout, thereby producing the great width 

 in the bod3\ It is not known whether the anal area is distinct or 

 not. Interaxillaries two to four or more. Arms unknown. 

 Column round, rapidly tapering downward ; perforation round 

 near the calyx, at a distance below pentalobate. 



Geological Position, etc. — From the Devonian of Kentucky. 

 We only recognize two of Lyon's species. Hadrocrinus penta- 

 gonus is very imperfectly known, and in all probability belongs 

 to a very different group. 



1869. Hadrocrinus discus Lyon. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. xiii, p. 448, PI. 26, 

 fig. a. Corniferous limest., Devonian. Falls of the Ohio. 



1869. Hadrocr. plenissimus Lyon. Trans. Amer. Philos. Soc, vol. xiii, p. 445, PI. 

 26, figs. B 1-3. Corniferous limest., Devonian. Falls of the Ohio, near Jef- 

 fersonville, Ind. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 39Y 



LIST OF SYNONYMS, CORRECTIONS AND IMPERFECTLY 

 DEFINED SPECIES. 



Abracrinus d'Orbigny. 



A. simplex d'Orb., see Carpocrinus simplex. 



Acasthocrinus Roemer, syn of Rhodocrinus. 



A. longispina Roemer, see Rhodocr. longispina. 

 A. nodulosus Hall, see Rhodoer. nodulosus. 

 A. gracilis Hall, see Rhodocr. gracilis. 



Actinocrinus Miller. 



A. abnormis Lyon, see Megistocr. ahnormis. 



A. aculeatus Austin, not sufficiently defined. • 



A. segilops Hall, see Teleiocr. xgilops. 



A. sequalis Hall, see Batocr. legualis. 



A. sequibrackiatus McChesney, see Batocr. sequibrachiatus, 



A. var. alatus Hall, syn. of Batocr. sequibrachiatu9. 



A. Agassizi Troost. Not defined. 



A. althea Hall, see Teleiocr. althea. 



A. amphora Portlock, syn. of Amphcvacr. Gilbertsoni. 



A. amplus Meek and Worth., see Perieehocr. amplus. 



A. Andrewsianus McChesney, see Batocr. Andrew sianus. 



A. araneolus Meek and Worth., see Steganocr. araneolu». 



A. asterias McChesney, syn. of Batocr. verrucosus. 



A. asteriscus Hall, syn. of Batocr. sequihrachiatus. 



A. arthriticus Phill., see Gissocr, arthriticus. 



A. atlas McCoy, see Amphoracr. (?) atlas Roemer. 



A. brevicalyx Rose. Not found the description. 



A. brevicornis Hall, see Megistocr. brevicornis. 



A. brevimanus Angelin, see Perieehocr. brevimanus. 



A. brevis Hall, see Agaricocr. brevis. 



A. biturbinatus Hall, see Batocr. biturbinatus. 



A. calyculoides Hall, see Ereimocr. calyculmdes. 



A. calyculus Hall, see Batocr. ealyculus. 



A. calypso Hall, see Gennseocr. calypso. 



A. canaliculatus Hall, see Dorycr. canaliculatus. 



A. carica Hall, see Eretmocr, carica. 



A. caroli Hall, syn. of Batocr. calyculus. 



A. Cassedayi Lyon, see Batocr. Cassedayi. 



A. catafractut Aust. Not sufficiently defined. 



A. cauliculus Hall, see Gennseocr. cauliculus. 



A. chloris Hall, syn. of Actinocr. tenuisculptus. 



A. Christyi Shumard, see Batocr. Christyi, 



A. Christyi Hall, see Perieochocr. Christyi. 




308 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



A. cingulatus Goldf. Described from detached columns. 

 A. clavifferus Hall, syn. of Batocr. similis. 

 A. clio Hall, see Eretmocr. clio. 

 A. clivosus Hall, see Teleiocr, clivosus. 

 A. cloelia Hall, see Eretmocr. cloelia. 

 A. clypeatus Hall, see Batocr. clypeatus. 

 A. concavus Meek and Worth., see Dorycr. concavus. 

 A. concinnus Shumard, see Steganocr. concinnus. 

 A. corhulis Hall, see Eretmocr. corhulis. 

 A. corniculiis Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. brevis. 

 A. cornigerus Hall, see Dorycr. cornigerus. 

 A. cornigerus Shumard, syn. of Gennxocr. Kentuckiensis, 

 A. cornutus Troost. Not defined. 

 • A. coronatus Hall, Ere'mocr. coronatus. 

 A. Correyi Lyon, probably (?) Agaricocrinus. 

 A. costatus Eichwald. 'Detached column. 

 A. costatus Bigsby, see Actinoer. costus McCoy. 

 A. crassus Austin. Not defined. 

 A. cyathiformis Sandberger. Badly defined. 

 A. decadactylus Portlock (not Goldf.). Insufficiently described. 

 A. decornis Hall, see Dorycr. decornis. 



A. delicatus Meek and Worth., the young Teleiocr. umhrosus. 

 A. desideratus Hall, syn. of Dorycr. Missouriensis. 

 A discoideus Hall, see Batocr. discoideus. 

 A. divaricatus Hall, syn. of Dorycr. cornigerus, 

 A. divergens Hall, see Amphoracr. divergens. 



A. var. multiramosus Meek and Worth., syn. of Amphoracr. divergens. 



A. dodecadactylus Meek and Worth., see Batocr. dodecadactylus. 



A. doris Hall, syn. of Batocr. xqualis. 



A. dubius Eichwald. Detached columns. 



A. elephanti?ius Austin. Not sufficiently defined. 



A. eris Hall, see Agaricocr. eris. 



A. erodus Hall, see Teleiocr. erodus. 



A. eryx Hall, syn. of Actinoer. glans. 



A. eucharis Hall, see Gennseocr. eucharis. 



A. Evansii Owen and Shum., see Megistocr. Evansii. 



A. expansus Phillips, see Sagenocr. expansus, 



A. fibula Troost. Catalogue name. 



A. fiscellus Hall, see Agaricocr. fiscellus. 



A. formosus Hall, syn. of Batocr. discoideus. 



A. gemmiformis Hall, Eretmocr. gemmiformis. 



A. gihbosus Troost. Catalogue name. 



A. Gilberisoni Miller, see Amphoracr. Gilbertsoni. 



A. Gilbertsoni de Konink, syn. of Actinoer. stellaris de Kon. 



A. globosus Phillips, see Rhodocr. globosus. 



A. glyptus Hall, see Strotocr. glyptus. 



A. Gouldi Hall, see Dorycr. Gouldi. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 399 



A. granulatus Qoldf. Detached columns. 



A. granulatus A.\xstin. Not defined. Bet Amphoracrinus. 



A. Hageri McChesney, see Batocr. Hageri. 



A. helice Hall, see Agaricocr. helice. 



A. Humboldti Troost. Catalogue name. 



A. icosidactylus Casseday, see Batoer. icosidaetylut. 



A. Indianensis Lyon and Cass., see Batocr. Indianensis. 



A. inflatus Hall, syn. of Amphoracr. spinobrachiatua. 



A. inornatus Hall, syn, of Batocr. clypeatus. 



A. insculptus Hall, see Tdeiocr. insculptus. 



A. interradiatus Angelin, syn. of Periechocr. Lindslromi. 



A. irregularis Lyon and Cass., see Batocr. irregularis. 



A. Kentuckiensis Shum., see Batocr. Kentwkiensis. 



A. Konincki Shum., see Eretmocr. Konincki, 



A. Isevis Miller. Detached columns. 



A. Isevissimus Austin. Not defined. 



A. lagina Hall, syn. of Actinocr. proboscidialia. 



A. lagunculus Hall, see Batocr. lagunculus. 



A. latus Hall, see Megisiocr. latus. 



A. laura Hall, see Batocr. laura. 



A. lepidus Hall, see Batocr. lepidus. 



A. leucosia Hall, see Eretmocr. leucosia. 



A, Uratus Hall, see Teleiocr. liratus. 



A. locellus Hall, syn. of Actinocr. reticulatus Hall. 



A. longidigitatus Angelin, see Periechocr. longidigitalus. 



A. longimanus Angelin, see Periechocrinus . 



A. longirostris Hall, see Batocr. longirostris. 



A. longispinus Austin. Not defined. 



A. major Angelin. Rhodocrinidse, genus (?). 



A. mammillatus de Koninck (Bigsby). Not seen description. 



A. matuta Hall, see Eretmocr. matuta. 



A. var. attenuata Hall, see Eretmocr. attenuata. 



A. medius Angelin. Rhodocrinidae, genus (?). 



A. Meckii Lyon^ see Macrostylocr. Meekii. 



A. minor Hall, syn. of Megistocr. brevicornis. 



A. Mississippiensis Roemer, see Dorycr. Mississippiensis. 



A. var. spiniger Meek and Worth., syn. of J). Mississippiensis. 



A. Missouriensis Shumard, see Dorycr. Missouriensis. 



A. moniliferus Qoldf. Detached columns. 



A. moniliformis Miller, see Periechocr. moniliformis. 



A Mortoni Troost. Catalogue name. 



A. multicornis Lyon, see Centrocr. mullicornis. 



A. mundulus Hall, see Batocr. mundulus. 



A. muricatus Goldf. Detached columns. 



A. multibrachiatus var. echinatus, see A. multibrachiatus. 



A. Nashvillse Troost, see Batocr. Nashvillse. 



A. var. subtractus White, see Batocr. Nashvillx. 




400 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881 



A nodulosus Goldf. Detached columns. 



A. nubilii Angelin, Periechocr. nubilis. 



A. nyssa Hall, see Gennxocr. nyssa. 



A. oblalus Hall, syn. of Batocr. rolundus, 



A. ohpyramidalis Winchell and Marcy. Internal cast. 



A. oUiculus Hall, syn. of Periechocr. Whitei. 



A. ornatus Hall, see Physetocr. ornatus. 



A. papillatus Hall, syn. of Batocr. clypeatus. 



A. Parkinsojii de Koninck (?). Not seen the description. 



A. parvus Shumard, see Dorycr. parvus. 



A. pendens Hall, syn. of Dorycr. unicornis. 



A. pentagomis Hall, see Steganocr. pentagonus. 



A. pentaspinus Lyon, see Centrocr. pentaspinus. 



A. perumbrosus Hall, syn. of Strotocr. regalis. 



A. pistilliformis Meek and Worth., see Batocr. pistilliformis. 



A. pistillus Meek and Worth., see Batocr. pistillus. 



A. planobasilis Hall, syn. of Amphoracr. divergent. 



A. planodiscus Hall, see Balocr. planodiscus. 



A. plumosus Hall. Detached arms. 



A. pocillum Hall, see Gennmocr. pocillum. 



A. polydactylus Bonny (not Miller), Melocr. pachydactylus. 



A. precursor Hall, see Dorycr. {?) precursor. 



A. prumiensis Wirtgen and Zeiler, see Dorycr. prumiensis. 



A. pulcher (Salter MS.) McCoy, see under Periechocrinus. 



A. pyramidatus Hall, see Agaricocr. pyramidatus. 



A. pyriformis Ad. Roemer. Not seen de<(cription. 



A. pyriformis Shumard, see Batocr. pyriformis. 



A. pyriformis var. rudis M. and W., syn. of Batocr. pistilliformis. 



A. quadrispinus White, syn. of Amphoracr. divergens. 



A. quaternarius Hall, syn. of Actinocr. jiroboscidialit. 



A. spiniferus Hall, syn. of Actinocr. proboscidialis. 



A. quinquangularis Angelin, see Periechocr. quinquangularis. 



A. qumquelobus Hall, syn. of Dorycr. cornigerus. 



A. radiatus Angelin, see Periechocr. radiatua. 



A. ramulosus Hall, see Eretmocr. ramulosus. 



A. regalis Hall, see Strotocr. regalis. , 



A. regularis Hisinger = TJypanthocr. regularis. 



A. remibrachiatus Hall, see Eretmocr. remibrachiatus. 



A. retiarius Phillips. Detached columns. 



A. rotundas Yandell and Shum., see Batocr. rotundus. 



A. rudis Hall, see Teleiocr. rudis. 



A. rusticus Hall, syn. of Actinocr. scitulus. 



A. Schultzianus Angelin, see Periechocr. Schultzianus. 



A. sculptus Miller. Detached columns. 



A. sculptus Hall, see Steganocr. sculptus. 



A. semiradialus Hall, see Periechocr. semiradiatus. 



A. senarius Hall, syn. of Physetocr. ornatus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 401 



A. securus Hall, syn. of Actinocr. sexarmatus. 



A. Sillimani Meek and Worth., syn. of Actinocr. seitulns. 



A. similis Hall, see Batocrinus similis. 



A. simplex Phillips, see Carpocrinus simjjlex. 



A. sinuosus Hall, see Batocr. sinuosus. 



A. speciosus Meek and Worth., syn. of Strolocr. regalis. 



A. ipinobrachiatus Hall, see Amphoracr. spinobrachiatus, 



A. spinulosus Hall, see Dorycr. spinulosus. 



A. steropes Hall, see Batocr. sterope-i. 



A. striatus MUnster. Not known to us. 



A. suhaculeatus Hall, see Dorycr. subaculeatus. 



A. subxqualis McChesney, syn. of Batocr. discoideus. 



A. subturbi7iatus Meek and Worth., syn. of Dorycr. parvus. 



A. subumbrosus Hall, syn. of Teleiocr. liratus, 



A. subventricosus McChesney, syn. of Physetocr. ventricosus. 



A. superlatus Hall, syn. of Megistocr. brevicornis. 



A. symmetricus Hall, syn. of Dorycr. parvus. 



A. tenuidiscus Hall, see Periechocr. tenuidiscus. 



A. tenuiradiatus Hall, 1861, see Teleiocr. ienuiradiatus. 



A. tenuiradiatus Hall, 1847, Palteocrystes. 



A. tenmstriatus Phillips. Detached columns. 



A. tesseraius Goldf. Detached plates and columns. 



A. tesseracontadactyJus Goldf., see Abacocr. tesseracontadactylus. 



A. tesseracontadactylus Hisinger, syn. of Carpocr. simplex. 



A. themis Hall, syn. of Actinocr. proboscidialis. 



A. thetis Hall, syn. of Actinocr. sexarmatus. 



A. thoas Hall, syn. of Actinocr. reiiculatus. 



A. tholus Hall, syn. of Actinocr. glans. 



A. tricornis Hall, syn. of Dorycr. miicornis. 



A. trinodus Hall syn. of Dorycr. parvus. 



A. turbinatus Hall, see Batocr. turbinatus. 



A. var. elegans Hall, syn. of Batocr. turbinatus. 



A. umbrosus Hall, see Teleiocr. umbrosus. 



A. unicornis Owen and Shum., see Dorycr. unicornis. 



A. unispinus Hall, see Dorycr. unispinus. 



A. urna Troost. Catalogue name. 



A. urnxformis McChesney, syn. of Eretmocr. KonincH. 



A. validus Meek and Worth., syn. of Steganocr. concinnus. 



A. ventricosus Hall, see Physetocr. ventricosus. 



A. cancellatus Hall, syn. of Physetocr. ventricosus. 



A. internodius Hall, syn. of Physetocr. ventricosus. 



A. Verneuili Troost, see 3Ielocr, Verneuili. 



A. Vernenilianus Shum., see Eretmocr. Verneuilianus. 



A. viminalis Hall, see Amphoracr. viminalis. 



A. Wachsmuthi White (1862), syn. of Actinocr. sciiulus. 



A. TFacA^mi^^Ai White (1880), see Batocr. Wachsmuthi. 



A. Whitei Hall, see Periechocr. Whitei. 



37 




402 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



A. Wkitfieldi Hall, syn. of Periechoer. Christyi. 

 A. Yandelli Shumard, see Batocr. Yandelli. 



Agariooorinus Troost. 



A. bellatrema Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. ornatrema. 



A. bullatus Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. americanus. 



A. corrugatus Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. pyramidatus. 



A. excavatus Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. americanus. 



A. nodosus Meek and Worth., syn. of Agaricocr. americanus, 



A. pentagonus var. convezus, see Agaricocr. convexus. 



A. iuberosus Troost., syn. of Agaricocr. americanus. 



Alloprosallocrinus Lyon and Casseday. 



A. depressus Lyon and Cass. Not sufficiently defined. 

 A. euconus Meek and Worth., see Batocr. euconus. 



Amblacrinus d'Orbigny. Not sufficiently defined. 



A. rosaceus (Roemer) d'Orbigny, see Coccocr. rosaceus. 



Amphoracrinus Austin. 



A. americanus Roemer, see Agaricocr. americanus. 



A. bellatrema Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. ornotrema. 



A. concavus (Actinocr.) Meek and Worth., see Dorycr. concavus. 



A. corrugatus Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. pyramidatus. 



A. crassus Austin. Insufficiently defined. 



A. excavatus Hall, syn. of Agaricocr. americanus. 



A. granulatus Austin. Not sufficiently defined. 



A. inflatus Meek and Worth. (Hall's Actinocr. inflatus, 1860), syn. of 



Amphoracr. spinobrachiatus. 

 A. inflatus (Hall's Agaricocr, — Amphoracr. — inflatus, 1861), see Agaricocr. 



inflatus. 

 A. ornotrema Hall, see Agaricocr. ornotrema. 



A. planobasilis Hall (Meek and Worth.), syn. oi Amphoracr. divergens. 

 A. planoconvexus Hall, Agaricocr, planoconvexus. 



A. quadrispinus'White (Meek and Worth.), syn. of Amphoracr. spinobrachiatus. 

 A. sublurbinatus Meek and Worth., syn. of Dorycr. parvus. 



Aspidocrinus Hall. The root (?) of a crinoid. 

 A. callosus Hall. Body unknown. 

 A. digitatus Hall. Body unknown. 

 A. scutelliformis Hall. Body unknown. 



Asteroorinus Lyon (not Miinster), syn. of Pterotocrinus. 

 A. capitalis Lyon, see Pterotocr. capitalis. 

 A. coronatus Lyon, see Pterotocr. coronatus. 



Astrocrinites Conrad (not Cumberland nor Austin), syn. of Melocrinus. 

 A. pachydactylus Hall, see Melocr. pachydactylus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 403 



Astropodia Ure, see Platycrinus. 



Balanocrinus Troost (not Agassiz), syn. of Lampterocrinus. 

 B. inflalus Hall, see Lampterocr. injlatut. 

 B. sculptus Troost, syn of Lampterocr. tennesseensis Roemer. 



Batoorinus Casseday. 



B. asteriscus Hall (Meek and Worth.), syn. of Batocr. lequibrachiatus. 



B. clavigerus Hall (M. and W.), syn. of Batocr. clavigerus. 



B. doris Hall (M. and W.), syn. of Batocr. xqualis. 



B. formosus Hall (M. and W.), syn. of Batocr. clypeatus. 



B. inornatus Hall (M. and W.), syn. of Batocr. clypeatus. 



B. Konincki Shum^ir A (M. and W.), see Eretmocr. Konincki. 



B. subsequalis McChesney (M. and W.), syn. of Batocr. clypeatus. 



B. urnse/ormis Hall (M. and W.), see Eretmoer. urnseformis. 



Brachiocrinas Hall. Based on detached arm fragments. 



B. nodosarius Hall. Arm fragments. 



Cacabocrinus Troost, syn. of Dolatocrinus. 



C. glyptus Hall, see Dolatocr. glyptus. 



C. var. intermedius Hall, see Dolatocr. glyptus. 



C. lamellosus Hall, see Dolatocr. lamellosut. 

 C. liratv^ Hall, see Dolatocr. liratus. 



C. var. multilira Hall, syn. of Dolatocr. liratus. 



C. speciosus Hall, see Dolatocr. speciosus. 

 C. Troosti Hall, see Dolatocr. Troosti. 



Calathocrinus Hall (not von Meyer), syn. of Teleiocrinus . 



Castanocrinus Roemer, syn. of Melocrinus Goldfuss. 



Centroorinus Austin (not Wachsm. and Spr.), syn. of Platycrinus. 



Coelocrinus Meek and Worth, (not Coelioer. White), syn. of Dorycrinus. 

 C. concavus M. and Worth., see Dorycr. concavus. 



Clonoorinus Oehlert. (not Quenst.), syn. of Melocrinus. 

 C. Bigshyi Oehlert., see Melocr. Bigsbyi. 



Condylocrinas Eichwald, see doubtful genera. 



Conocrinites Troost. Not defined. 



C. Lese, Troost. Catalogue name. 



C. tuberculosus Troost. Catalogue ©ame... 



Cophinus Koenig. Detached ccdumns. 



Coroaocrinus Hall, see Hadrocr. (Doubtful genera.) 

 C. polydactylus Hall. Small fragmentary pieces. 




404 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Crumenaecrinites Troost. Not defined. 

 C. ovaH.i Troost. Catalogue name. 



Ctenoorinus Bronn, syn. of Melocr. Goldfuss. 



C. bainbridgensis Hall, see Melocr. bainbridgensis. 



C. decadactylus Goldf., see Melocr. decadactylus. 



C. lamelloms Eichwald. Detached columns. 



C. notatus Eichwald. Detached columns. 



C. punctattts Eichwald. Columns. 



C. stellaris Roemer, see Melocr. stellaris. 



C. typus Bronn, see Melocr. typus. 



Cupellaecrinus Troost. Not defined. 



C. Buchii Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. corrugatus Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. inflatus Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. Isevis Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. magnificuB Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. pentagonalis Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. rosseformis Troost. Catalogue name. 

 C. stellatus Trosst. Catalogue name. 

 C. striatiis Troost. Catalogue name. 



Cyathocrinus Miller. 



C. fasciatus Hall, syn. of Macrostylocr. Meehii Lyon. 



C. tesseracontadactylus Hisinger (Salter), see Carpocr. simplex. 



Cystocrinus Roemer, Detached columns. 



C. Tennesseensis Roemer. Detached columns. 



Cytocrinus Roemer, syn. of Melocrinus Goldf. 



C. Isevis Roemer, see Melocr. Isevis. 



Daemonocrinites Troost. Not defined. , 



Decadactylocrinites Owen. Not defined. 



Bichocrinus Miinster. 



D. cornige'us Shum., syn. of Talarocr. eornigerus. 



D. elegans Cass, and Lyon (not de Kon. and Leh.), see Talarocr. elegans. 

 D. expansus Meek and Worth, (not de Kon. and Leh.), see Dichoer. poly- 



dactylus. 

 D. insularis Eichw., see Hexacr. insularis. 

 D. lachrymosus Hall, syn. of Platyr. subspinulosus Hall. 

 D. protuberans Hall, Pterotocr. protuberans. 



D. sculptus Cass, and Lyon (not de Kon. and Leh.), see Dichoer. ornatua. 

 D. septuosus de Kon., based upon detached plates. 

 D. sexlobatus Shum., see Talarocr. sezlobatus. 

 D. symmetricus Cass, and Lyon, see Talarocr. symmetricus. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 405 



Dimerocrinus Phillips. 



D. icosidactylus Phill., see Eucrinus icosidactylus . 

 D. oligoptilus Pacht. = Taxocrinus oligoptilus. 



Dimorpliocrinus d'Orbiguy, (Pentremites). 



D. pentangularis d'Orb., in part Platycr. [?) pentangular is Miller. 



Doliolocrinus Troost. Not defined. 



Donacicrinites Troost. Not defined. 



D. simplex Troost. Catalogue name. 



Echinus dubius Schlotheim, see Actinocr. Isevis, Miller. 



Edwardsocrinus d'Orbigny, syn of Platycrinus. 



E. ornatus McCoy, see Platycr. ornatus. 



Eucalyptocrinus rosaceus Hisinger (not Goldf.), see Marsupiocr. rosaceus. 

 Eucrinus Angelin. 



E. minor Angelin, see Anthemocr. minor. 



E. vetiusius Angelin, see Anthemocr. venustus. 



Eugeniacrinites hexagonus Miinster, see Platycr. spinosus Quenstadt. 

 Forbesiocrinus Pratteni McChesney, see Melocr. Pratteni {?). 

 Geocrinus d'Orbigny, syn. of Periechocrinus. 



G. moniliformis Miller, see Periechocr . moniliformis. 



Gilbertsocrinus Phillips, syn. of Ollacrinus Cumberland. 

 G. bursa Phill., see Ollacr. bursa. 

 G. calcaratus Phill., see Ollacr. calcaratus. 

 G. fiscellus Meek and AVorth., see Ollacr. fiscellus 

 G. mammillaris Phill., see Ollacr. mamillaris. 

 G. simplex Portlock, see Ollacr. simplex. 



Glosterocrinus Hall. Not sufficiently defined. 



G. elongatus Hall A very imperfect specimen. 



Glypytocrinus Hall. 



G. armosus McChesney. Described from casts. 



G. Baeri Meek, see Reteocr. Baeri. 



G. basalis McCoy. Insufficiently described. 



G. Carleyi Hall, see Mariacr. Carleyi. 



G. cognatus S. A. Miller, see Reteocr. cognatus. 



G. Dyeri var. subglobosus Meek, see Glyptocr. subglobosus. 



G. ezpansus Phill. (d'Orb.), see Sagenocr. expansus. 



G. gracilis Wetherby, see Reteocr. gracilis 



G. lacunosus Billings, see Archseocr. lacunosus. 




406 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



G. libanus SaflFord. Not defined. 



(j. marginatus Billings, see Archxocr. marginatus. 



G. 0" N'ealWa&W, see Reteocr. O'Nealli. 



G. plumoms Hall. Detached columns and arms. 



G. quinquepartitus Billings. Detached columns. 



O. Richardsoni Westerby, see Reteocr. Richardsoni. 



G. siphonatus McChesney. Described from casts. 



Goniasteroidocrinus Lyon and Cass., syn. of Ollacrinus. 

 G.fiscellus Meek and Worth., see Ollacr.fiscellus. 

 G. obovatus Meek and Worth., see Ollacr. obovatus. 

 G. teimiradiatus Meek and Worth., see Ollacr. tenuiradiatus. 

 G. tuberosus Lyon and Cass., see Ollacr. tuberosus. 



Habrocrinus Angelin, syn. of Carpocrinus Miiller. 

 //. anulatus Angel., see Carpocr. anulatus. 

 H. cariosolus Angel., see Carpocr. cariosolus. 

 H. comtus Angel., see Carpocr. comtus. 

 H. decadactylus Angel., see Carpocr. decadactylus. 

 H. grandis Angel., see Carpocr. grandis. 

 H. granulatus Angel., see Carpocr. granulatus. 

 H. Isevis Angel., see Carpocr. Isevis. 

 H. longimanus Angel., see Carpocr. longimanus. 

 H. ornatissimus Angel., see Carpocr. ornatisdmus. 

 H. oriiatus Angel., see Carpocr. ornatus. 

 H. pmnulatus Angel., Carpocr. pinnulatus. 

 H. robustus Angel., see Carpocr. robtistus. 

 H. ttnuis Angel., see Carpocr. tenuis. 

 H. umbonatus Angel., see Carpocr. umbonatus. 



Hadroorinus Lyon. See doubtful genera. 



//. pentagomts Lyon. Imperfectly known. 



Harmocrinus Angelin, syn. of Stelidiocrinus. 



H. lojigimanus Angel., see Stelidiocr. longimanus. 



Hexaorinus Goldfuss. 



H. decagonus Goldf. (Bigsby), see Storthing ocrinus. 



H. depressus Austin, syn. of Hexacr. inter scapularis. 



H. eboraceus Hall (Bigsby), see Platycr. eboraceus. 



H. Eriensis Hall (Bigsby), see Platycr. Eriensis. 



H. fritillus Miiller (Bigsby), see Storthing ocrinus. 



H. melo Austin, syn. of Hexacr. interscapularis. 



IT. nodiger Eichwald. Described from detached columns. 



Icosidactylocriuites Troost. Not defined. 

 Lyrioorinus Hall. 



L. sculptilis Hall. Described from an indistinct cast. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 407 



Macrostylocrinus Hall. 



M. fasciatus Hall, syn. of Macrostylocr, Meekii. 



Mariaorians Hall (partly syn. of Melocrinus. 



M. macropetalus Hall (compare with Corymbocrinus). 

 M. nobilissimus Hall, see Melocr. nobilissimus. 

 M. pachydactylus Hall, see Melocr. pachydactylus. 

 M. paucidactylus Hall, see Melocr. paucidactylus. 

 M. penniger Salter (MS.). No description published. 

 M. stoloniferus Hall. Described from columns. 



Marsupiocrinus Phillips. 



M. dactylus Hall, see Lyriocr. dactylus. 



M. dubius Angelin. Evidently an Actinocrinoid. 



Medusacrinus Austin. Not defined. 

 Megistocrinus Owen and Shumard (not Angelin). 



M. infelix Winchell and Marcy, see Periechocr. Christyi (Hall). 



M. Marcouanus Winch, and Marcy, see Periechocr. Christyi (Hall). 



M. necis Winch, and Marcy. Described from casts. 



M. parvirostris Meek and Worth., see Megistocr. Evansii. 



M. plenus White, syn. of Megistocr. Evansii. 



31. Whitei Hall, see Periechocr. Whitei. 



Melocrinus Goldfuss. 



M. amphora Goldfuss, syn. of Amphoracr. Gilbertsoni. 



M. sculptus Hall. Described from basal plates. 



M. angustus Angelin, see Mariacr. angustus. 



M. obconicus Hall, see Mariacr. obconicus. 



M. kevis Goldf. (not Roemer), syn. of Melocr. gibbosus. 



M.fornicatus Goldf., syn. of Melocr. pyramidalis. 



Ophiocrinus Angelin. Preoccupied by Salter, 1852, and Semper, 1868. 

 Fentagonites Rafinesque. Described from detached plates. 

 Feriechocrinus Austin. 



P. anulatus Angelin. Described from detached plates. 



P. costatus Austin, syn. of Periechocr. moniliformis, 



P. geometricus Angelin. Detached plates. 



P. globosus Austin. Not defined. 



P. grandiscutatus Angelin. Detached plates. 



P. Ixvis Angelin (not Portlock), see Periechocr. minor W. and Spr. 



P. multicostatus Angelin. Detached plates. 



P. undulatus Angelin. Detached plates. 



Fhillipsocrinus McCoy, see Melocrinus and Actinocrinus. 



P. caryocrinoides McCoy. Probably a malformed Actinocrinus. 




408 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Fhoenioocrinus Austin, syn. of Carpocrinus Miiller. 

 P. simplex Phillips (Austin), see Carpocr. simplex. 



Fionocrinus Angelin, syn. of Carpocrinus Miiller. 

 /'. ajjinis Angelin, see Carpocr. affinis. 

 P. elegantulus Angelin, see Carpocr. elegantulus. 

 P. farctus Angelin, see Carpocr. farctus. 

 P. pulchellus Angelin, see Carpocr. pulchellus. 

 P. simplex Phillips (Angel.), see Carpocr, simplex. 



Platycrinus Miller. 



P. anaglypticus Goldfuss, see Ilexacr. anaglypticus. 



P. alutaceus Goldf. syn. of Symbathocr. alutaceus. 



P. anndixoni Troost. Not defined. 



P. annulatus Goldf., syn. of Ilexacr. anaglypticus. 



P. antheliontes Austin, syn. of Platycr. pileatus. 



P. armatus Miinster. (We have not seen the description.) 



P. asper Goldf. (not Meek and Worth.), Storthingocr. fritillits, 



P. brevis Goldf., see Hexacr. brevis. 



P. Buchii Roemer, see Hexacr. Buchii (?). 



P. clytis Hall, syn. of Platycr. scobina Meek and Worth. 



P. compressus Eichwald. Pieces of column. 



P. decagonus Goldf., see Storthing ocrinus. 



P. decoratus F. A. Roemer (?). 



P. depressus Aust. (not Owen and Shum., nor Sandberger), syn. of Ilexacr. 



inter scapularis. 

 P. depressus Goldf, syn. of Ilexacr. interscapularis Schultze (? W. and S.). 

 P. depressus Owen. Not defined. 

 P. echinatus Sandberger, syn. of Ilexacr. ornatus. 

 P. ellipticus Austin (not Phill.). Not defined. 

 P. elongatus Goldf., see Hexacr inns elongatus. 

 P. elongatus Phillips, see Dichocr. elongatus. 

 P. excavatus Hall, syn. of Platycr. discoideus. 

 P. exsculptus Goldf., see Hexacr. exsculptus. 

 P. exsertus Hall, syn. of Platycr. lurlingtonensis. 

 P. frondosus Goldf., syn. of Hexacr. anaglypticus. 

 P. granifer Roemer, syn. of Hexacr. interscapularis. 

 P. granuliferus A. Roemer, see Hexacr. granuliferus. 

 P. Goldfussi Miinster, syn. of Hexacr. elongatus. 

 P. Huntsvillse Troost. Catalogue name. 

 P. insculptus Troost. Catalogue name. 

 P. insularis Eichwald, perhaps Ilexacr inus (?), 

 P. inornatus McChesney, syn. of Platycr. burlingtonensis. 

 P. interscapularis Phill. (not Miller), Ilexacr. interscapularis. 

 P. Isevigatus Goldfuss, syn. of Ilexacr. anaglypticus. 

 P. Lese Lyon, see Hexacr. Lese. 

 P. melo Austin, syn. of Hexacr. interscapularis. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 409 



P. Milleri McCoy (Pictet), Cyathocrinus {?). 



P. minutus Schnurr, syn. of Storthingocr. fritillus. 



P. multibrachiatus Meek and Worth., syn. of Platycr. discoideus. 



P. muricatus Goldf., syn. of Hexacr. anaglypticus. 



P. nodulosus Qoldf. (not Hall), see Symbathocr. nodulosus. 



P. nodobrachiatus Hall (1861, not 1858), see PL perasper. 



P. nodosus Wirtgen and Zeiler, see Culicocr. nodosus. 



P. olla Hall (not de Kon.), syn. of PL Halli Shum. 



P. ornatus Goldf. (not McCoy), see Hexacr. ornatus. 



P. Oweni Meek and Worth., syn. of Platycr. regalis Hall. 



P. parous Hall, see Cordylocr. parvus. 



P. pentangularis Miller. A Blastoid. 



P. Pkillipsii d'Orbigny, syn. of Hexacr. macrotaius. 



P. planus Owen (not Owen and Shum). Not defined. 



P. plumosus Hall, see Cordylocr. plumosus. 



P. polydactylus Troost. Catalogue name. 



P. punctobrachiaius Hall (probably not Platycrinus). 



P. pusillus Goldf., syn. of Storthingocr. fritillus. 



P. ramulosus Hall, see Cordylocr. ramulosus. 



P. retiarius Phillips. (We found no description). 



P. rosaceus Roemer, see Coccocr. rosaceus. 



P. rosaceus Goldf., syn. of Hexacr. callosus. 



P. rugosus Goldf. (not Miller), Storthingocr. fritillus. 



P. scaber Goldf., Storthingocr. fritillus. 



P. scobiculaia-lmediixxs Goldf., Storthingocrinus. 



P. stellaris Roemer, see Hexacr. stellaris. • 



P. striobrachiatus Hall, syn. of Platycr. corrugatus. 



P. tabulaius Goldf., Symbathocr. tabulatus. 



P. Tennesseemis F. Roemer, Marsupiocr. Tennesseensis. 



P. tentaculatus Hall, see Marsupiocr, tentaculatus. 



P. triacontadactylus, syn. of PL trigintidactylut. 



P. truncatus Hall, syn. of Platycr. americanus. 



P. ventricosus Goldf., see Hexacr. ventricosus. 



P. verrucosus White, syn. of Platycr. pocilliformis, 



Pleurocrinus Austin, see Platycrinus. 



Pomatocrinus Koenig, MS., not published. 



Pradocrinus de Verneuil, syn. of Periechocrinus. 

 P. Baylii de Verneuil, see Periechocr. Baylii. 



Pterotocrinus Lyon and Casseday. 



P. rugosus Lyon and Cass. Not sufficiently defined. 



Pyxidocrinus MUUer (see our remarks on Actinocrinidce). 

 P. pruiniensis Miiller, see Dorycr. prumiensis. 




410 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Khodocrinus Miller. 



R. asperatus Billings. Not suflSciently known. 



R. Barrisi (var.), divergens Hall, syn. of Rh. Barrisi. 



R. bursa Phillips (Austin). See Ollacr. bursa. 



R. calcaratus Phillips (Austin), see Ollacr. calcaratus. 



R. canaliculatus Goldf. Detached columns. 



R. costatus Austin. Not sufficiently defined. 



R. crenatus Goldf., see Rhipidocr. crenatus. • 



R. tchinatus Schlottheim, Detached columns. 



R. gigas Billings. Detached columns. 



R. granulatus Austin. Not sufficiently defined, 



R. gyratus Goldf. Detached columns. 



R. melissa Hall, see Lyriocr. melissa. 



R. mammillaris Phill. (Austin), Ollacr. mammillaris. 



R. microbasilis Billings, see Archseocr. microbasilis. 



R. mutabilis Austin. Not defined. 



R. pyriformis Billings, see Archseocr. pyriformis. 



R. quinquangularis Miller. Detached columns. 



R. quinquelobus Schultze, see Eucrinus quinquelobus. 



R. quinquepartitus Goldf. Detached columns. 



R. rectus Hall, (Probably a Cystidean.) 



R. simplex Portlock (?). 



R. tessellatus Steininger, syn. of Rhipidocr. crenatus. 



R, iortuosus Roemer. Detached columns. 



Saccoorinas Hall, syn. of Periechocrinus. 

 S. Christyi Hall, see Periechocr, Christyi. 

 S. semiradiatus Hall. Described from a cast, 

 S. speciosus Hall, see Periechocr. speciosus. 

 S. tennesseensis Troost, Not defined. 

 S. Whitfieldi Hall, syn, of Periechocr. Christyi. 



Sagenocrinus Austin. 



S. giganteus Austin. Not sufficiently defined, 



Schizocrinus Hall, see " doubtful genera." 



Scyphocrinus Hall (not Zenker). Ibid, 



Sphaerocrinus Meek and Worth, (not Roemer), see Dorycrimis. 

 S. concavus Meek and Worth., see Dorycr. concavus. 



Sphenocrinus Eichwald. Described from pieces of column. 



Strotocrinus Meek and Worthen. 



(S. asperrimus Meek and Worth., see Actinocr. asperrimus. 

 S. segilops Hall (M. and W.), see Teleiocr. segilops. 

 S. althea Hall (M. and W.), see Teleiocr. althea. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 411 



S. bloomfieldensis S. A. Miller, syn. of Strotocr. regalis. 



S. ectypus Meek and Worthen, see Actinocr. ectypus. 



S. erodus Hall, see Teleiocr. erodus. 



S. insculptvs Hall (M. VV.), see Teleiocr. insculptus. 



S. liratus Hall (M. and W.), see Teleiocr, liratus. 



S. rudis Hall (M. & W.), see Teleiocr. rudis, 



S. S2ibumbrosus Hall (M. and W.), syn. of Teleiocr. liratus. 



S. umbrosus Hall (M. and W.), see Teleiocr. umbrosus. 



Syringoorinus Billings. Imperfectly known. 



<S'. paradoxus Billings. Parts of the arms (?), 



Tazocrinus simplex PMll. (Austin), see Carpocr. simplet. 



Technoorinus Hall. 



T. sculptus Hall. Described from basal plates. 

 T. striatus Hall. Described from basal plates. 



Tetramerocrinites Austin. Insufficiently and evidently incorrectly defined. 

 T. formosus Austin. Undeterminable. 



Trematoorinns Hall. 



T. fiscellus Meek and Worth., see Ollacr. fiscellui. 



T. papillatus Hall, see Ollacr. tuberculosus. 



T. reticulatus Hall, see Ollacr. reticulatus. 



T. robustus Hall, see Ollacr. robuatus. 



T. spinigerus Hall, see Ollacr. spinigerus. 



T. tuberculosus Hall, see Ollacr. tuberculosus. 



T. typus Hall, see Ollacr. typus. 



Triplaricrinites Goldf. A catalogue name. 



Trochicrinites Pander, syn. of Periechocrinus. 



T. gotlandicus Pander, see Periechocr. gotlandicut. 



Trybliocrinus Geinitz {?). 



Thysanocrinus Hall, syn. of Dimerocrinus. 



T. aculeaius Hall. Described from fragmentary arms. 



T. canaliculatus Hall. Arm fragments. 



T. microbasilis Billings, see Archseocr. microbasilis. 



T. immaturus Hall, see Dimerocr. immaturus. 



T. Uliiformis Hall, see Dimerocr. liliiformis. 



T. microbasilis Billings, see Archseocr. microbasilis. 



T. pyriformis Billings, see Archseocr. pyriformis, 



Turbinocrinus Troost. Not defined. 




412 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. 



The folloioing letters denote the same parts throughout all the plates. 



u = underbasals. 



b ^= basals. 



r = radials (r' primary radials, r' secondary radials, etc.). 



i ^= interradials. 



d =: interaxillary plates. 

 cd = central dome plate. 

 pd = proximal dome plates. 



rd = radial dome plates [rd- = secondary radial dome plates). 

 id = interradial dome plates. 

 dd = interbracliial dome plates. 



a — arm plates. 

 fa = fixed arm plates. 

 fp ^= fixed pinnules. 



X = anal plates. 

 xd = anal dome plates. 



A ^= arms. 

 AO =: arm openings. 

 FB = free rays. 

 lA = interradial appendages. 

 EP = respiratory pores. 



H = hydrospires. 

 AT = ambulacral tubes beneath the vault. 



G = galleries beneath the vault. 



/= interpalmar spaces. 



X — anus. 



C — column. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 17. 



Fig. 1, Platycrinus regalis Hall. The plates in calyx and vault. 

 Fig. 2. Ollacrinus tuberculosus Hall. The plates in the calyx, and those 

 of the interradial appendages and arms. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 18. 



Fig. 1. Extended rim of Strotocrinus regalis (dorsal side). All plates 

 below the secondary radials broken away, exposing to view the inner 

 floor of the vault. (This figure in connection with figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 

 is designed to illustrate the character of a continuous rim and of free 

 rays as extensions of the body, their relations to the arms, and the 

 derivation of the arms fi'om pinnules.) 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 413 



Fig. 2. Strotocrimis subumbrosus Hall. Half of one ray, showing the 

 mode of branching. The medium lines indicate the course of the 

 radial ridges at the surface of the plates. 



Fig. 3. Steganocrinus sculptus Hall. Showing the free rays and the lateral 



arms. 

 Fig. 4. Side view of a portion of a free ray in Steganocr. sculptus, 



showing the ventral covering, and the position of arm openings and 



respiratory pores. 



Fig. 5. Transverse section of the same, showing the form of the inner 

 passage. 



Fig. 6. Reteocrinus Bichardsoni "Wetherby. A part of one of the rays 

 within the calyx, showing the fixation of pinnules by means of inter- 

 calated plates. 



Fig. 7. Eucladocrinus millebrachiatus W. and Sp. Ventral side of body, 

 with free rays and lateral arms. 



Fig. 8. Showing the position of the apical dome plates in Batocrinus 

 pyriformis, a species with a large, almost central anal tube. 



Fig. 9. Arrangement of plates in the dome of Agaricocrinui. 



Fig. 10. Apical dome plates of Steganocrinus sculptus. 



EXPLANATION OF PLATE 19. 



Fig. 1. Vault of Ollacrinus tuberosus L. and C, showing the five de- 

 pressed, oval-shaped groups of small plates opposite the interradial 

 appendages. 



Fig. 2. Batocrinus discoideus, showing the plates in the calyx. The 

 adjoining plates of the dome added to show the exact position of ann 

 openings and respiratory pores. (The pores are not visible where the 

 arms are attached, but here figured to point out their position.) 



Fig. 3. Ventral covering of Oranatocrinus Sayi, showing the apical and 

 other dome plates, also the extension of this covering over the ambu- 

 lacral furrows. (O = so-called ovarian openings, f = forked plate, 

 d = deltoid pieces. ) 



Fig. 4. Batocrinus discoideus Hall. Horizontal section through the arm 

 openings and respiratory pores, exposing their passages through the 

 test. 



Fig. 5. Natural cast of Physetocrinus ventrieosus, showing the position of 

 certain poi-es or pits upon the inner floor of the vault, represented in 

 the cast as small cones. 



Fig. 6. Cross-section at midway of Oranatocrinus Norwoodi Shumard. 

 Showing the hydrospires. [l = lancet piece ; AQ ^ ambulacral and 

 food passage.) 




414 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Fig. 7. Teleiocrinus with traces of hydrospires, fig. a, portions of two 

 pairs of ambulacral tubes within the radiating tunnels beneath the 

 vault, exposing the upper or ventral side. Fig. b, transverse section 

 of the same, indicating two compartments along the tunnels, separated 

 by partition (pj, the upper containing the ambulacral tubes, the 

 lower the hydrospires. (Compare with fig. 8. ) 



Fig. 8. A pair of ambulacral tubes in Actinocrinus glans Hall, as seen 

 from the inner side. Their exit into the arm passages concealed by a 

 delicate partition (p), partly surrounding the tubes, and separating 

 them from the hydrospires ; the partition being evidently a continua- 

 tion of the delicate network which lines the inner floor of the vault. 

 The hydrospires are not preserved, but they probably rested, as in fig. 

 7, beneath the ambulacral tubes. AO represents the arm openings 

 seen from the inner side of the body. 



Fig. 9. Internal cast of the vault and free rays in Actinocrinus muUira- 

 diatus. The ridges radiating to the rays represent furrows at the 

 inner floor of the test. 



Fig. 10. Oesophageal network of Eretmocrinus Verneuilianus Shum. 



Fig. 11. The same organ in Teleiocrinus rudis Hall. 



Fig, 12. The same in Batocrinus, one convolution partly removed. 



Fig. 13. The same in a different species of Batocrinus. 



Fig. 14. A part of the same organ in OUacrinus tuberosum. 



Fig. 15. A portion of the network magnified. (From a specimen of 

 Actinocrinus glans.) 



Fig. 16. Batocrinus longirostris Hall. The test partly removed, exposing 

 to view the intervisceral plexus. 



Fig. 17. The oesophageal network seen from the base. 




1881.] natural sciences op philadelphia. 415 



August 2. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 



A paper entitled " Remarks on the Mollnscan Genera Hippagus, 

 Verticordia and Pecchiola," by Angelo Heilprin, was presented 

 for publication. 



August 9. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eleven persons present. 



August 16. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine persons present. 



August 23. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Nine jDersons present. 

 The death of Mr. John Welsh, Jr., a member, was announced. 



August 30. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eight persons present. 

 The death of Mr. Robert Kilvington, a member, was announced. 



The following were ordered to be printed : — 



28 




416 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [18«1. 



A REVISION OF THE CIS-MISSISSIPPI TERTIARY PECTENS OF THE 

 UNITED STATES. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



In the accompanying notes the author has attempted to give a 

 complete list of all the Pectens thus far described from the tertiary 

 deposits of the United States east of the Mississippi River, 

 indicating, as far as possible, their range in time and their 

 geographical distribution. The rather hap-hazard method in which 

 the tertiary palaeontology of a great portion of the United States 

 has thus far been treated has rendered the statement of this last 

 a matter of great difficulty, and doubtless the range, both in time 

 and space, of many of the species herein enumerated, will require 

 emendation when more accurate data will have been brought 

 directly from the field itself. 



The titles of the various works quoted are indicated by the 

 following abbreviations : — 



J. A. N. S. Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Phila. 



Proc. A. N. S. Proceedings of the Academy of Natural Sciences. 



A. J. Science. American Joui-nal of Science and Arts. 



A. J. Conchol. American Journal of Conchology. 



Mioc. Foss. Conrad's "Fossils of the Medial Tertiary of the United 



States." 

 Syn. Org. Rem. Morton's " Synopsis of the Organic Remains of the 



Cretaceous Group." 

 Plioc. Foss. " Pleiocene Fossils of South Carolina," by Tuomey and 



Holmes. 



The generic names placed in parentheses indicate the names 



under which the given species apper in the " Smithsonian Check 



Lists " of 1864 and 1866. 



Eocene. 

 P. anisopleura Conr. N. Car. 



Kerr, "Geol. Survey of North Carolina," 1875, Appendix, p. 18. 



P. calvatus Mort. (Camptonectes) S. Car. 



Syn. Org. Remains, p. 58 (Jacksonian) . 



P. Carolinensis Conr. N. Car. 



Kerr, "Geol. Survey of North Carolina," 1875, Appendix, p. 18. 



T P. Claibornensis Conr. (Camptonectes). Ala. 



Smithsonian Check List, 1866. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 417 



I have been unable to discover the description of this species. 

 A specimen with this name in the Academy's collection, and 

 marked in Conrad's handwriting, scarcely admits of positive 

 specific determination. It has been considerably eroded, and 

 appears as though it may have been either closely related to, or 

 identical with P. calvatus (Mort.). 



P. Deshayesii Lea. Ala. 



" Contributions to Geology," p. 87. 

 P. Lyelli Lea. "Contr. to Geol.," p. 88 (young). 



Both of Lea's figured specimens are in the Academj^'s collection, 

 and show beyond doubt that the}' belong to one and the same 

 species, what there is of P. Lyelli corresponding precisely to the 

 earlier formed portion of P. Deshayesii. This last must be care- 

 fully distinguished from the P. Deshayesii of Nj'st (" Coqu. eP 

 Polyp. Foss.,^^ p, 288), which was founded on the erroneous; 

 supposition that Lea's species was only a variety of P. opercic- 

 laris, Lam. ; a new specific name should therefore be given to the 

 Belgian Pecten. 



P. elixatus Conr. ( Janira), Jacksonian ? S. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., ii, p. 174. 



P. Knieskerni Conr. N. J. 



A. J. Conchol., V, p. 40 (described from a cast). 



P. membranosus Mort. Jachsonian. Ala. ; S> Car..; N. Car» 



Syn. Org. Kem., p. 59. 



P. nuperus Conr. Jacksonian. Miss. 



Proc. A. N. S., vii, p. 259. 



P. scintillatiis Conr. (Camptonectes). Miss. 



A. J. Conchol., 1, p. 140, as Eburneopecten , 



Oligocene. 

 p. anatipes Mort. Ala. 



Syn. Org. Rem., p. 58. 



P. perplai us Mort. Ala. ; Miss. 



Syn. Org. Rem., p. 58. 

 P. Spillmani Gabb. J. A.N. S., 2d series,, iv, p. 402. 



The original specimen of P. Spillmani in the Academy's collec- 

 tion agrees thoroughly with P. perplanuSy and is marked as its 

 equivalent in Gabb's handwriting.. 



P. Poulsoni Mort. (Janira). Ala.; Miss. 



Syn. Org. Rem., p. 59. 




418 proceedings of the academy of [1881. 



Miocene. 

 P. biformis Conr. Va. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 306. Mioc. Foss., p. 73. 



This species appears at first sight to be closely related to the 

 P. Danicus of Chemnitz, from which, however, it can be readily 

 distinguished by the profound notch under the ear of the right 

 valve, the greater concavit}^ of the opercular valve, and the more 

 prominent and irregular lines on the inferior moiety of the ribs of 

 the convex valve. 



P, oerinus Conr. Md. 



A. J. Conchol., V, p. 39. 

 P. comparilis Tuomey and Holmes. Va. ; N. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 29. 



P. eboreus Conr. (in part). 



= Specimen marked by Conrad as P. Yorkensis. 



P. mkropleura (young) H, C. Lea. Ti-ansactions Am. Philosoph. 

 Society, ix, p. 245. 



The specimens which constitute the P. comjmrilis of Tuomey 

 and Holmes were included by Conrad in his P. eboreus, but the 

 two can be readily distinguished from each other in the character 

 of the ribs, which in P. comparilis are considerably more elevated, 

 and much more distinctly marked off from the general surface of 

 the valve. I have retained as the type of Conrad's P. ehoreus the 

 forms agreeing with the figure in tlie " Fossils of the Medial 

 Tertiary of the United States." The P. comjmrilis bears in many 

 respects a close resemblance to P. purpuratus Lam., from the 

 coast of Peru, but it may be easily distinguished by the ribs in 

 the interior faces of the valves passing prominently to the umbonal 

 region, wliereas in P. purpuratus they become indistinct a short 

 distance from the margin, and appear, moreover, much broader. 

 P. comparilis is, again, less ventricose on the umbonal region, but 

 more convex toward the basal margin. The intermediate scaly 

 rib between the principal ones present in P. purpuratus is wanting 

 in P. comparilis. The ears are in P. comparilis less prominently 

 marked by the radiating lines. 



P. decemnarius Conr. Va. 



J. A. N. S., vii, p. 151. Mioc. Foss., p. 49. 

 P. dispalatus Conr. Va. 



Mioc. Foss., 74. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 419 



P. eboreus Conr. Va. ; N. Gar. 



A. J. Science, xxiii, p, 341. Mioc. Foss., p. 48. 

 P. EolbrooM Rav. Proc. A. K S., ii, p. 96. 



Two. species were included by Conrad under this name, the 

 second being the one subsequently described by Tuomey and 

 Holmes as P. comparilis. 



P. Edgecombensis Conr. N. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., 1862, p. 291. Not figured. 



The species is described from a specimen in the Smithsonian 

 Institution which I have not had an opportunity to examine. 



P. fraternus Cunr. Va. 



Proc. A. N. S., 1862, p. 291. 

 f P. tricarinatus Cour. A. J. Conchol., ill, p. 189. 



I have not seen a specimen of P. fraternus, but its specific 

 description accords well with the specimen marked in Conrad's 

 handwriting P. tricarinatus, which I have good reason to believe 

 is the very specimen from which the description of P. fraternus 

 has been taken. 



P. Humphrpysii Conr. [OUgocene ?). Md. ; N.J. 



Proceedings of the National Institution, p. 194. 



The convex valve of the average specimens of this species very 

 closely approximates the recent P. laqueatus of Sowerb}'^ 

 (" Thesaurus Conchyliorum," i, p. 46), from the northwest coast 

 of America, both in outline and ornamentation, but differs in the 

 lesser number (only six instead of eight), lesser prominence, and 

 greater irregularity of the ribs, which also spread out broader 

 towards the basal margin. The valve is, moreover, considerably 

 less ventricose than in P. laqueatus. I have been unable to make 

 an}^ comparisons between the opercular valves. 



P. Jeffersonius Say. Md. ; N. Car. ; Va. 



J. A. N. S., iv, p. 133. Conrad, Mioc. Foss., p. 46. 



P. Madisonius Say. Md. ; N. Car. ; Va. 



J. A. N. S., iv, p. 134. Conrad, Mioc. Foss., p. 48. 



P. Magellanicus Gmelin. Md. ; N. Car.; Va. 



Syst. Nat., 3817. 



P. CUntonius Say. J. A. N. S., iv, p. 135. 

 P. princepoides Emmons. N. Car. Geol. Surv., 1858, p. 280. 



I have compared both young and old specimens of the P. CUn- 

 tonius with those of P. Magellanicus, and have no hesitation in 




420 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



stating that they all belong to but one species. Some of the 

 fossil specimens do not differ nearl}^ as much from tlie recent one 

 as the individual specimens of the latter do among themselves. 

 The statement of Say that the sides of the shell (/'*. Glintonius) 

 below the auricles slope much more rapidly downwards than in 

 G. Magellanicus is erroneous ; nor is there any appreciable differ- 

 ence in the character of the radiating striae. 



P. Peedeensis Tuomey and Holmes. N. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 30. (See P. Peedeensis under Pliocene). 



The only authority I have (in addition to the statement of 

 Emmons) for stating that this species is found in the Miocene 

 deposits of North Carolina rests on an examination of one solitary 

 valve of a specimen marked by Conrad P. (Liropecten) Garolin- 

 fnsis (described in Kerr's Geol. Rep. of North Carolina, Appendix, 

 p. 18), which, as far as I have been able to determine, does not 

 differ essentially from the P. Peedeensis of Tuomey and Holmes. 

 The specific name, Garolinensis, is preoccupied by an Eocene 

 species. 



P. Rogers! Conr. Va, 



J. A.N. S., vii, p. 151. Mioc. Foss., p. 45. 



P. septemnarius Say. Md. ; Va. 



J. A. N. S,, iv, p. 136. Conr., Mioc. Foss., p. 47. 



I am inclined to believe that this species will be found to be a 

 mere variety of P. Jeffersonius Say ; want of a sufficient num- 

 ber of specimens with which to make the comparison has pre- 

 vented me from making a positive determination. 



?P. tricarinatus Conr. Va. 



A. J. Conchol., iii, p. 189. 

 = P. fraternus ? Conr. (See P. fratei'nus.) 



P. trioenarius Conr. Va. 



Proc. A. N. S., 1, p. 306. Mioc. Foss., p. 74. 



P. vicenarius Conr. N. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 306. 



Closely related to P. comparilis T. & H. 



P. Virginianus Conr. Va. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 46. 

 P. tenuis H.C. Lea. Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, ix, p. 246. 



Mr. Searles Wood (" British Crag Mollusca,'' Bivalves, p. 25. 

 Palseont. Soc. Reports, 1856), states that this shell somewhat 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 421 



resembles the P. Gerardii of Nyst, found in the Coralline Crag 

 of England, but that it differs among other characters in being 

 broader than high, and in having the auricles more developed. I 

 have compared Conrad's specimens with Wood's figure, and find 

 the statement concerning the ears to be correct ; the relative 

 dimensions of the shell are, however, not constant. 



Pliocene. 



I have adopted Tuomey's determination of the South Carolina post- 

 Eocene deposits, there being as yet not sufficient evidence to prove that 

 they are of Miocene age, as insisted upon by Conrad. 



P. affinis Tuomey and Holmes. S. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 26. 



I have seen no specimens of this species. 



P. comparilis Tuomey and Holmes. S. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 29. 



P. eboreus Conr. S. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 48. 

 Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 28. 



P. hemicyclus (Rav. ?) Tuomey and Holmes. S. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 25 (name quoted from Ravenel). 



The opercular valve of this species is of the exact outline, and 

 very much the appearance of the similar valve of P. excavafus 

 Sowerby (:= P. Sinensis?), but is considerably less concave. It 

 is of the shape and concavity of P. Jacobaeus, but with more 

 numerous ribs. The right valve is less convex than in P. excava- 

 tus, and wanting on its ribs the prominent lines found in P. 

 Jacobaeus. 



P. Marylandicus Wagner. N. Car. 



J. A. N. S., viii, p. 51, PI. 1, fig. 2 (very poorly figured). 



Described from the Pliocene of North Carolina, but more 

 probably Miocene. 



This species very closely resembles in form, texture and orna- 

 mentation P. Islandicus Miill., but is less prominently ribbed, 

 especially on the ears (where the ribs are also more numerous). 



P. Mortoni Ravenel (Amussium). S. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., ii, p. 96. 



This species differs from the P. Japonicus Gmel., in its larger 

 size, thinner texture, and in having the internal ribs arranged in 




422 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



a series of much narrower pairs, i. e., the two ribs of each pair 

 arc set closer to each other, and the intervening spaces between 

 the individual pairs is very much greater. The supposed distinc- 

 tion pointed out by Tuomey and Holmes that the number of ribs 

 in P. llortoni is less than in P. Japonicus — namely, forty, whereas 

 in the latter, it is forty -six — does not hold, since the number in 

 P. Japonicus is very variable even in the valves of the same indi- 

 vidual, one specimen showing thirty-four in one valv3, and forty- 

 four in the other. 



P. Peedeensis Tuomey and Holmes. S. Car. 



Plioc. Foss., p. 30. 



P. (Liropecten) Carolinensis Conr. (Kerr's Geol. Report of 

 North Carolina, Appendix, p. 18), appears to be but a variety of 

 this species, having more ribs (twelve). 



This species is stated by Tuomey and Holmes to be " very 

 closely related to, if not identical with P. nodosus of the Gulf of 

 Mexico." It appears to me that the resemblance exists only in 

 the fact of the ribs in both species being knobbed, broken into 

 nodes, otherwise the ornamentation is very distinct, the very 

 prominent radiating ridges on and between the ribs in P. 7iodosus 

 being wanting in P. Peedeensis, where they are replaced b}^ fine 

 impressed lines. 



P. septemnarius Say. S. Car. 



J. A. N. S,, iv, p. 36. Com-., Mioc. Foss., p. 47. 

 Tuomey and Holmes, p. 31. 

 P. Jeffersonius var. ? 



Pecten dislocatus Say, is described from the post-Pliocene 

 deposits of South Carolina by Holmes (" Post-Pliocene Fossils of 

 South Carolina," p. 12), and specimens of P. hevnicyclus from the 

 same deposits, are in the collections of the Academy. Specimens 

 of P. i7'radia7is Linn., distinctly showing the color marks, also 

 occur in the newer formations, but I have been unable to deter- 

 mine the locality or localities whence they have been obtained. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 423 



REMARKS ON THE MOLLUSCAN GENERA HIPPAGUS, VERTICORDIA 

 AND PECCHIOLIA. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



The genus Hippagus was founded by Dr. Isaac Lea, in 1833 

 (Contributions to Geology, p. 72), for a small cordiform fossil 

 shell from the Eocene deposits of Alabama, whose external 

 appearance bore a somewhat general resemblance to Isocardia. 

 Its affinities with that genus were at the time pointed out by 

 that naturalist, who did not hesitate to class it in its immediate 

 neighborhood, despite the great diflerences that were presented 

 by the structure of the hinge in the two genera. To my 

 knowledge, onh' two species, one other than the American, are 

 as yet known to belong to this genus, the second one being a 

 species from the Arrialoor Cretaceous group of Stripermatiir, 

 India, discovered by the late C. Aemilius Oldham, and to which 

 Stoliczka has applied the specific name of Aemilianus (Palseonto- 

 logia Indica, Memoirs Greol. Surv. India, Cretaceous Fauna, iii, 

 p. 262). In 1846 Mr. Searles Wood published in the seventh 

 volume of Sowerby's Mineral Conchology, p. 6T, his diagnosis 

 of a new genus of fossil shell, for which he some years previously 

 proposed the name Verticordia, and which was intended to 

 embrace the only species known at the time, a fossil of the 

 English crag (the Gryptodon ? Verticordia of the " Catalogue of 

 the Crag Mollusca," Annals and Magazine of Natural History, 

 1840, vi, p. 24*7). Almost simultaneously with the discovery of 

 the Crag fossil, Philippi discovered in Calabria, South Ital}", a 

 very closely allied form, which, on the strength of the transcript 

 of the characters of Lea's genus, as given b}^ Bronn in the Lethsea 

 Geognostica, he referred to Hippagus (sp. acatlcoHtatus) (Enu- 

 meratio Molluscorum Sicilise, 1844, ii, p. 42). Probably guided 

 by the views of Philippi, Sowerby {loc. cit.) considered the new 

 genus of Wood as untenable, and accordingly referred the 

 English fossil in question likewise (although with doubt) to the 

 genus Hippagus^ imposing upon it the new specific name of 

 cardiiformis (Miu. Conch., vii, p. 68). Sowerb^^'s example, 

 singularly enough, is followed by Wood in his " Monograph of 

 the Crag Mollusca" (Palaeontographical Soc. Reports, ii, p. 149, 

 1851-3), who now renounces his genus, referring his species to 




424 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



Hippagus, with the original specific name modified into Verti- 

 cordius. Both tlie English and the Italian species have very 

 little in common with Lea's Hippagus, which is edentulous, and 

 belong properly to the genus Verticordia (Trigomilina of 

 D'Orbigny), as reconstituted by conchologists. 



Another singular fossil, long known to pahieontologists as the 

 Chama ? arietina of Brocchi (Conchiologie Fossile Subapennina, 

 ii,p. 668), and which systematists generally referred to Isocardia, 

 was thought by Sismonda (S3aiopsis Method. Anim. Invert. Fed. 

 Foss., p. 18; fide Homes, Die fossilen Mollusken des Tertiar- 

 Beckens von Wien, ii, p. 169) to be referable to the genus 

 Hippagus of Lea, but the dcntiferous conformation of the hinge 

 did not escape the attention of Meneghini, who, in 1851 (Con- 

 siderazioni sulla Geolog. Stratigr. della Toscana, p. 180), con- 

 stituted it into the genus Pecchiolia, restoring to it the original 

 specific name of argentea, proposed, in 1*797, by Mariti. Deshayes 

 in (about ?) 1860 (Animaux sans Vertebres, Bassin de Paris, i, 

 p. 809), described a minute fossil from the Paris basin under the 

 name of Hippagus Z^eanMS, which, in the prominence and recurved 

 nature of its beaks, to some extent recalls the Hippagua isocardi- 

 oides of Lea, but which differs in the presence, in each valve, of a 

 cardinal tooth. 



Deshaj'es was apparently doubtful as to the true generic 

 position assigned to his species, inasmuch as he states that a 

 more complete study of the American shell may lead to the 

 separation of the two species into distinct genera. Having 

 shown the correctness of Lea's figure and description, by the 

 discovery of the allied Indian form, Stoliczka proposes (Palseon- 

 tologia Indica, Cretaceous Fauna, iii, p. 225) the generic name 

 of AUojjagus, for the species from the Paris basin, which name it 

 ought to retain. It will tlius be seen that fossil shells belonging 

 to no less than four distinct genera have been alternately referred 

 to the American genus Hippagus. 



All these agree, more or less, with each other in the closed and 

 nacreous or semi-nacreous shell, recurved umbones, simple pallial 

 impression, and the internal or subinternal arrangements of the 

 ligaments. The^^ differ in the dentiferous character of the hinge. 

 The opinions of naturalists have been greatl}' at variance as to 

 the position to be assigned to these genera in a natural classifica- 

 tion, and, indeed, there appears to be no small difficuly in 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 425 



arriving at a satisfactory conclusion as to tlieir proper generic 

 affinities. Philippi (loc. cit., p. 41) classed his species under the 

 Cardiacea^ immediately after tlie genus Isocardia, a somewhat 

 similar view being entertained by Oronzio Costa as to the position 

 of his genus Iphigenia (= Verticordia ? Wood,' Seguenza, Jour, 

 de Conchyliologie, 2d ser., iv, 1860, p. 290), which he placed in 

 the proximity of the Carditee. Seguenza states {loc. cit.) that 

 the same views were entertained by Woodward in his " Manual of 

 Mollusca," but that author seems to have overlooked the remark 

 in the supplement to the work just mentioned (p. 471 ; and 

 second edition, 1868, p. 472), whereby the genus is referred 

 " undoubtedly " to the Trigoniadse. The relationship with 

 Trigonia is maintained b}' H. and A. Adams in their " Genera of 

 Recent Mollusca," 1858, ii, p. 531), and by Deshayes in his 

 valuable remarks on the family Trigonea Lamarck, and the 

 genera Verticordia and Hijyjjagus (Animaux sans Yertebres, 

 Bassin de Paris, i, pp. 805-10), although the last named naturalist 

 in his review of the Cardiaceea (loc. cit., p. 529), distinctly states 

 that, for the time being, the genus Pecchiolia (misprinted Fet- 

 chiola), which, on pages 806 and 810, he points out to be indis- 

 putably linked to Verticordia and Hippagus, will probably- have 

 to be referred to that family. According to Pecchioli (Revue et 

 Magasin de Zoologie, 1852, p. 577) Meneghini, on establishing 

 this genus, considered it as allied to Diceras of Lamarck, a view 

 to some extent shared hy Stoliczka, who,on proposing the family 

 Verticordiidae for the genera Pecchiolia, Verticordia and Allo- 

 pagus (loc. cit., p. 224), places the same in his order Chamacea. 

 Lea's Hippagus is found a refuge among the UnguUnidae, near 

 Scacchia, the affinity with which, it must be confessed, appears 

 to us as rather remote. Mr. Arthur Adams states in his 

 observations on Verticordia Japonica (Annals and Magazine of 

 Natural Histor}^, .3d series, ix, 1862, p. 224), that the animal has 

 no relation to Trigonia, but, on the contrary, that " its position, 

 judging both from the nature of the animal and the form of the 



^ I have been unable to gain access to Costa's woi'k, and therefore can- 

 not, from personal observation, pronounce upon the value of the genus 

 Iphigenia; its identity with Verticordia is given upon the authority of 

 Seguenza, but judging from tliis author's descriptions and figures of his two 

 species of Verticordia, it would appear that he had confounded with that 

 genus the genus Pecchiolia. 




42G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



shell, would seem to be in the family Bucardiidae, the animal 

 differing from Bucardia {Isocardia) cor in the posterior [mantle] 

 opening being fringed." The shell of this species, Mr. Adams 

 further adds, is very different from that of V. novemcostnta 

 Adams and Reeve, from the China Sea, and very similar to the 

 V. gramdata of Segnenza, a Tertiary Sicilian fossil. Whether 

 this last is a true Verticordia I am not in a position to judge, 

 not having seen anj^ specimens, but if the figures illustrating 

 Seguenza's descriptions be correctly^ executed, they appear to 

 represent a species of fossil very different from the Vei^iicordia 

 cardiiformis of Wood, the typical species of the genus Verti- 

 cordia. The same may be said of Seguenza's figure of V. acuti- 

 costata^ the species described by Philippi from the newer Ter- 

 tiaries of Calabria, and which was considered by Wood, as 

 identical with the species from the English Crag ; the absence of 

 a lunule (very prominent in Verticordia), the prominently 

 recurved spiral umbones, and the great ventricosity of the shell, 

 would seem to indicate a form much more nearly allied to 

 Pecchiolia. If, however, as Segnenza states {loc. cit., p. 293), 

 " les valves des individus jeunes de cette espece (d'un diametre de 

 4 a 8 millimetres) sont minces, phis circulaires, moins renflees,et 

 s'accordent parfaitement avec la figure de M. Philippi ..." the 

 question is settled as far as the identity of the Sicilian and 

 Calabrian fossils is concerned, and a strong relationship between 

 the genera Verticordia and Pecchiolia would be indicated ; but it 

 is at the same time very singular, and what makes it appear 

 somewhat suspicious, that in the second species stated by 

 Segnenza to belong to the genus Verticordia — V. gramdata — 

 there should be considerable differences in the character of the 

 hinge, and, moreover, a deep lunule (" lunula profunda, cordata, 

 ecostata, granulis carens ") should be present. An indubitable 

 species of Verticordia, the V. JEmmonsii Com:, has been described 

 from the Miocene deposits of North Carolina ; the V. Parisiensis 

 Deshayes, from the Paris basin, is at best but very doubtful. 

 Although Verticordia. and Pecchiolia may be very closely related 

 forms (and their positions, everything considered, if the observa- 

 tions of Mr. Adams on V. Japonica be correct, would be about 

 as near to Isocardia as to any other recent genus), there does not 

 appear to be as yet sufficient evidence for uniting the two genera, 

 as has been done by some conchologists. V. gramdata and V. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 42T 



acuticostata {et conseq., V. cardiiformis for Gwyn Jeffreys) are 

 stated to be also living forms, both inhabiting the Japanese seas, 

 and the former also the Mediterranean (Gwjai Jeffrys, " Mediter- 

 ranean Mollusca," Annals and Mag. of Nat. Hist., 4th ser., vi, 

 18T0, p. 73 ; " Japanese Marine Shells and Fishes," Journal 

 Linnean Society, Zoology, xii, 1874, p. 101 ; Jour. Linn. Soc, 

 xiv, 18T9, p. 420) ; these species are all classed by Mr. Jeffreys 

 as PecchioHa, and placed among the Gorhulidse^ and if the deter- 

 minations have been correctly made, they go far to confirm the 

 observations of Seguenza as to the variability of the genus 

 Verticordia (and of its passage into Pecchiolia). But in addition 

 to these forms of so-called Pecchiolia^ we have the P. [^LyonHiella] 

 abyssicola of M. Sars (Selsk. Forh., 1868, p. 257 ; G. 0. 

 Sars, " On some remarkable Forms of Animal Life," 1872, i, p. 

 25; Zoological Record, 1872, p. 166; G. 0. Sars, Bidrag til 

 Kundskaben om Norges Arktiske Fauna, 1878, p. 108, PI. 20, 

 fig. 5), an Arctic form certainly verj'^ distinct in tlie totality of 

 its characters from at least some, if not all, of the preceding, but 

 which is nevertheless admitted by Mr. Jeffrej's into the genus 

 Pecchiolia, and placed alongside two new species of his own 

 description, P. gibbosa and P. tornata (Annals and Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., 4th ser., xviii, 1876, p. 494). It certainly scarcely appears 

 possible that three such very distinct forms (at least as they appear 

 to me) as are represented b}^ the Ghama arietina of Brocchi 

 {Pecchiolia argentea Meneg.), Verticordia cardiiformis ofWood, 

 and Lyonsiella abyssicola of Sars, can belong to the same genus. 

 The shell of this last is said to be thin, pellucid, inequivalve, and 

 gaping posteriori}^, whereas in G. arietina it is comparatively 

 thiciv, equivalve, and completely closed. Nor does Sars' descrip- 

 tion of the animal of his species at all accord with Adams' 

 observations on Verticordia Japonica. In the former the foot is 

 said to be long, subcj'lindrical, and provided with a bj'ssus, 

 whereas in the latter it was found to be " small, triangular, and 

 compressed." Again, in the former, the siphons are separate, 

 subsessile, with the brancliial not prominent (anal prominent), 

 whereas in V. Japonica the " sessile siphoual orifices " are " close 

 together, the branchial larger than the anal." The supposed 

 pallia! sinus stated to exist in Ghama arietina by Pecchioli, was 

 probably founded on an imperfection in the shell, since the 

 pallial impression is stated to be simple by Homes, whose 




428 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881, 



description and figures are drawn from Italian specimens. The 

 form of the Arctic shell recalls the Verticordia Farisiensis of 

 Deshayes, which, however, differs in the presence of a cardinal 

 hinge tooth ; the pallial sinus represented in the figure (vol. i, 

 PI. X, fig. 12) is stated by the French conchologist to have been 

 erroneously placed there by the artist, and, therefore, cannot be 

 taken as a character separating it from L. abijssicola, in which 

 the pallial impression is also non-sinuate (" hele, ikke bagtil 

 indbugtede Kappe linie "). Finally, in the list of deep-sea 

 mollusca dredged in the Bay of Biscay (Annals and Mag. Nat. 

 Hist., October, 1880, p. 316), Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys revives the 

 generic term Verticor'dia for a newly-discovered species, V. 

 insculpta ; is this species likewise to fall under Pecchiolia ? 



The similarity existing between Lea's genus Hijopagus and 

 Crenella^ as exemplified by C. glandula Totten, a relation first 

 pointed out by Jeffreys (Annals and Mag. Nat. Hist., 4th ser., vi, 

 1870, p. '73), is certainly very great, but yet there appear to be 

 suflBcient differences to warrant a generic separation. The 

 umbones in Hippagus are much more prominently developed 

 and spirally twisted, and, as far as I have been enabled to deter- 

 mine, there are no crenulations on the hinge-line ; these, how- 

 ever, may have been eroded in the specimens (Lea's types in the 

 collection of the Academy of Natural Sciences) examined. The 

 structure of the shell appears to have been also considerably 

 heavier than in Crenella. The H. Aemilianits of Stoliczka 

 scarcely appears to differ from the H. isocardidides. 



Note. — While preparing the preceding remarks on the genus Verticordia 

 the author inadvertently overlooked the notice of that genus by Seailes 

 Wood, as contained in his " Monograph of the Eocene Mollusca " (Falteont. 

 Soc. Reports, 1871). Reference is there made to the existence of an ossicle 

 in the hinge, which led Mr. A. Adams to consider the genus as belonging 

 to the AnatinidcB, and, therefore, as distantly removed from the Bucardiidm, 

 with which it had been previously placed by that author. This view is not 

 concurred in by Mr. Wood, who, while in doubt as to its true relationship, 

 places the genus in a family apart by itself — the VerticordidoB (a family 

 name first proposed by Stoliczka). The genus Pe^cMolia is stated to be 

 synonymous with Verticordia, but no grounds are given for so considering it. 




1881.] natural sciences of philadelphia. 429 



September 6. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seven persons present. 



September 13. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Seventeen members present. 



On Hieracium aurantiacum. — Mr. John H. Red field stated at 

 the meeting of the Botanical Section that he had recently found 

 about two miles north of Tannersville, in the Catskill Mts., N. Y., 

 Hieracium aurantiacum L., growing abundantly over a stony 

 hill-side pasture, at an elevation of about 2500 feet above tide. 

 This plant is a native of elevated regions in central Europe, and 

 is a recent introduction to our Flora. Its prolific runners favor a 

 rapid spread, and the farmers near the Tannersville locality 

 already complain of it as a troublesome weed, so that there is 

 reason to fear it may become an unwelcome permanent resident. 



Mr. Meehan stated that he had received the same plant from 

 correspondents in New England, who had supposed it indigenous, 

 but that he had no doubt it was in all cases introduced. It had 

 also been collected in the Catskills this season by Miss Cope of 

 Germantown. 



Note upon Plantago elongata, Pursh — Mr. John H. Redfield 

 remarked that Dr. Gray, in the new Synoptical Flora of N. Am., 

 ii, 392, says, that this plant " of Bradbury's collection on the 

 Missouri, is unknown, probably a glabrate form of P. Patago- 

 nica.-'' Pursh's specimen ticketed (probably b}" Lambert) P. 

 elongata^ and noted as from Bradbury, has recently been found in 

 the Academy's Herbarium and proves to be unmistakabl}'^ P.pusilla 

 Nutt. 



September 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty persons present. 



A paper entitled " Note on the approximate position of the 

 Eocene deposits of Maryland," by Angelo Heilprin, was pre- 

 sented for publication. 




430 proceedings of the academy op [1881. 



September 27. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Eighteen persons present. 

 Dr. E. C. Hine was elected a membei". 



October 4. 

 Mr. J. H. Redfield, in the chair. 

 I^ineteen persons present. 



How Orh-Weaving Spiders make the Framework or Foxinda- 

 tions of Webs. — Rev. Dr. H. G. McCook said that he had given 

 attention during the past summer to tlie mode of constructing 

 webs prevailing among orb-weaving spiders. He had been led to 

 malie some special studies of the extent to wliicli air currents are 

 utilized in laying the foundation lines upon Avhich the orbs are 

 hung, by a remark of Rev. 0. Pickard-Cambridge in his work on 

 the Spiders of Dorset.^ " Spider lines," he says, " may frequently 

 be observed strained across open spaces of many feet and even 

 yards in extent. This has been explained by some naturalists to 

 have been done by the help of a current of air carrying the thread 

 across. I cannot, of course, say that it has never been thus 

 effected; though I have certainly never myself witnessed it. I 

 have, however, on several occasions seen a spider fix its line, then 

 run down to the ground, across the intervening space, and so up 

 the opposite side, trailing its line as it went ; and then having 

 hauled in the slack, it fixed the line to the desired spot. This, I 

 believe, to be the usual mode of proceeding in such cases." 



Dr. McCoolc was satisfied that on both the above points this 

 distinguished araneologist had failed to possess himself of all the 

 facts ; but he took up the points in question anew during the 

 summer, and made notes of his studies. His previous opinion 

 was fully confirmed. He had in a great number of cases 

 observed orb-weavers passing from point to point by means of 

 lines emitted from their spinnerets and entangled upon adjacent 

 foliage or other objects. These mimic " wire-bridges " were of 

 various lengths owing to the direction of the wind, and the rela- 

 tive positions of the spider and the standing objects ai'ound it. 

 Lines of two, three and four feet were frequent ; lines of from 

 seven to ten occurred pretty often ; he had measured one twenty- 

 six feet long, and in several cases had seen them strung entirely 



' Vol. i, Introduction, p. xxi. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 431 



across country roads of from thirty to forty feet. Many of these 

 lines he Iiacl seen carried by the wind directly from the spiders' 

 spinnerets, had observed the entanglement, had seen the animal 

 draw the threads taut and then cross upon them. That all the 

 lines were similarly formed and used he had no doubt. 



It was more difficult to detei'mine the other question, viz.: 

 Whether the lines used for the foundations of orb-webs were 

 formed in the same way. Undoubtedly, such lines are often made 

 precisely as asserted by M\-. Cambridge. Dr. McCook had many 

 times observed this ; he had seen an orb-weaver after traversing a 

 considerable space by a series of successive bridge-lines settle 

 upon a site between the forked twigs of a bush and carry her 

 foundation lines around in the manner described But, on the 

 other hand, he was prepared to say that the air-laid bridge-lines 

 were also used for the foundations or frames of orbs. 



1. First, he had observed that the hours in the evening at 

 which the greatest activit}' in web-weaving began, were those in 

 which also began the formation of the bridge-lines. The latter 

 action quite invariably preceded the former. 



2. Again, a study of the foundation lines of many webs gave 

 more or less conclusive evidence that they were laid by the aid of 

 air currents. For example, the webs of some species, as Acrosoma 

 miitra.ta^ A. spiyiea and A. rugosa,, Avere frequently found strung 

 between young trees separated by two or three 3'ards. That these 

 builders might have dropped to the ground, crept over wood, grass- 

 and drj' leaves carrying the thread in the free outstretched claw,, 

 is, perhaps, not impossible, but did not seem at all probable to the 

 speaker, although short spaces over smooth surfaces might well 

 be cleared in this way. One web he found spun upon lines 

 stretched from the balustrade of a bridge that spans a deep glen 

 in Fairmount Park, to the foliage of a tree that springs out of 

 the glen at least twenty-five feet below. Unless foundations were 

 formed by line-bridging the interspace of a 3'ard or more^it must 

 be inferred that the spider had dropped from the balustrade to the 

 glen, crossed the interval to the trunk of the tree, ascended it, 

 and having made the detour ol nearly sixt}^ feet to the point 

 direetl}^ opposite that from which she started, drawn her long line 

 taut, and so completed her foundation. Dr. McCook thought that 

 such a supposition could not be entertained, and it was clear that 

 a breeze carried the line across from the spider's spinnerets. 



Even stronger examples of circumstantial evidence were noted. 

 Very many webs of Tetragnatha extensa and T. grallator were 

 seen spread upon bushes overhanging pools and streams of 

 water ; others were seen stretched between separated water-plants, 

 or from such plants to the shore. Either the foundation lines 

 were borne by air currents, or the spiders must have crossed upon 

 the water, carrying their lines. The latter supposition is not 

 wholly untenable, the speaker thought, but would hardly be raised 

 by any one who had studied the spinning habits of the creature. 

 29 




432 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Ono other example ma_y be cited. At Cape May, by the Land- 

 ing, where pleasure boats used for sailing upon the inlet are 

 stored, there is an immense colony of Epiiiroids, chiefly Ej^eira 

 strix, E. vulgaris and E. domiciliorum (Hentz). Great numbers 

 of tiiese spiders had their lines strung between the opposite, 

 exterior walls of the boat-houses, which are built upon piles 

 driven into the water. These lines were about nine feet long, 

 stretched over the water at heights varying from one to ten feet. 

 Most of them passed from w^all to wall ; many were fastened at 

 one end upon piles and sticks driven here and there between the 

 houses. Even if one were to admit that Tetragnatha could carry 

 a free line over the smooth surface of an inland pool, it is past 

 belief that the above named Epeiras performed the same act x;pon 

 the rough w^aters of an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean. The only 

 reasonable conclusion is that bridge-lines were formed by air 

 currents, 



3' It was greatly desired that to the above cases of circum- 

 stantial proof, might be added actual observations of the use 

 for foundations of those lines stretched by air currents. Three 

 summer evenings were devoted to obtaining this result, without 

 complete success. On one evening the observer was interrupted 

 and c;dled off at the very critical loeriod of his observation; on 

 the other two evenings the wind was unfavorable. But some 

 valuable results were obtained, and the webs of three adult indi- 

 viduals of Epeira strix^ one male and two females, were selected, 

 the den or nest of each spider located, and the web entirely 

 destroyed, including the foundation lines. The latter precaution 

 was made necessary by the fact that orb-weavers had been noticed 

 to use the same foundation lines, for manj- days, for the erection 

 of their new webs. Young spiders had been seen on several occa- 

 sions to utilize the radii and foundations of abandoned webs of 

 adults, as the frame-lines of their small orbs. The great value 

 which maj^ attach to these old foundations appeared strikingly in 

 subsequent studies, and also the difficulty if not impossibility of 

 procuring suitable foundations for the webs of large spiders, 

 without the aid of the wind. 



Two of the webs (one of the females) were so situated that the 

 prevailing air currents so carried the lines that they could not 

 possibly find an entanglement. In consequence, neither of these 

 spiders succeeded, during two entire evenings, up to half-past 

 ten o'clock, in making a web. They frequently attempted it in 

 vain. One, which was more closely watched, was in motion 

 during the whole period, passing up and down, from limb to limb, 

 apparently desirous of fixing her orb in the former site, but com- 

 pletely confused and foiled. The site was one, moreover, which 

 would have allowed her to carry ai'ound a thread with compara- 

 tive ease, being a dead sapling that forked near the ground. The 

 spider' domiciled during the day on the ground, but had her orb 

 at the top of the forks, a height of six feet. Thus the space to 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 433 



traverse in passing from the top of one of the forks to a simihir 

 point on the opposite one. presented comparativeh' few difli- 

 culties. But no attempt was made to carry the line around, and 

 as the wind had evidently not chansed during the night, no web 

 appeared upon the ti'ee in the morning. During the next evening 

 the same restless movement along the bare limbs of the sapling 

 was repeated, and was terminated at a late hour by a rare 

 accident. A large moth, attracteil by the lantern, became entau 

 gled upon a single short thread stiung between two small twigs, 

 Avhereupon Strix pounced upon it. swathed and fell to feeding on 

 it. Next morning a tim^ orlj-web had been built around the shell 

 of the moth at the point of capture. 



During both evenings this spider at frequent intervals poised 

 herself at the extremity of twigs, and emitted threads from her 

 spinnerets which entangled upon some of the short twigs, but 

 never upon the opposite fork, as the wind was steadily contrary. 

 No other entanglement was secured, as there was no object in the 

 direction of the wind for a great distance. However, Dr. 

 McCook could, at any time, obtain an entanglement upon his 

 hand b}'^ arresting the thread. By imitating the motion of a 

 swaying leaf or limb, the spider was caused to perceive the 

 attachment, and immediately ventured upon the line. Once the 

 thread fastened upon the observer's face, and the animal was 

 allowed to cross the line (four or five feet) until within a few 

 inches of the face, when she took in the situation, instantly cut 

 the line and swung downward and backward over the long arc, 

 and, after a few oscillations, climbed up the line to the point of 

 departure. Her willingness to use the air-currents for making 

 transit lines was thus quite as manifest as her inability. The 

 third spider exhibited a like behavior. 



4. The third individual, a male, did not attempt to spin an 

 orb in the former site ; the wind was unfavorable, but there would 

 not have been much difficulty in carrying a cord around. He came 

 out of his rolled-leaf den at 7.20 P. M., and for more than an hour 

 labored to secure a web foundation. He was located upon a dead 

 v'^nd of a bough of a tree, with man}' branching twigs. As with 

 the former individual, so with this ; many efforts were made to 

 obtain foundations by sending out threads fi'om the spinnerets, 

 and to this end he tried most of the numerous i)oints of the 

 twigs covei'ing the territory which he seemed to have chosen as 

 his general range. One of these, a little pendant which hung in 

 the centre of the group, was taken as the basis of a most intei-- 

 e'sting operation. The spider dropped from the pendant by a 

 line three or four inches long, grasped the line by one of tlie 

 second pair of feet, and rapidly formed a triangular basket of 

 threads by connecting the point of seizure with lines reaching to 

 the feet of the remaining second and the third and fourth jxairs. 

 Ill this basket he hung head upwards, the bodj^ held at an angle 




434 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



of about 45°, the two fore-feet meanwhile stretched out, and groping 

 in the air, as though feeling for the presence of obstructions, of 

 enemies or of floating threads. At the same time he elevated his 

 spinnerets and emitted a line which was drawn out at great length 

 b}' the air, but secured no entanglement. The body of the spider 

 had a gentle lateral oscillation, which appeared to the observer to 

 result from a voluntary twisting of the central rope by the 

 animal, but ma}' have been caused by the air ; the effect, in either 

 case, was to give the line a wider swing, and much increase the 

 chances of entanglement. 



However, there was no entanglement, and the spider dropped 

 several inches farther down, and repeated exactlj" the process as 

 described above. This was repeated again and again, and when 

 the observer allowed the line to attach to his person the spider at 

 once proceeded to satisfy himself of the fact, and then to venture a 

 crossing. In all these actions there was evidences of a habitual 

 mode of securing transit by bridge-lines. 



During the intervals of these attempts, and indeed preceding 

 them, the spider passed back and forth along all the branching 

 twigs, leaving behind him trailed threads or lines connecting the 

 ends, many of which seemed to be purely tentative. At last a 

 central point was taken, a short thread dropped therefrom and 

 attached to one of these tentative lines. The confused network 

 of circumjacent lines was gathered together in a little flossy ball 

 at the point of union, which was now made the centre of the orb, 

 the first drop line and the two divisions of the cross line consti- 

 tuting the three original radii. From there the spider proceeded 

 to lay in the radii and complete the orb. The speaker described 

 this process in full, as illustrated by the industry of this and other 

 individuals. The time occupied in constructing the orb proper 

 was half an hour, while the work of prospecting for, and obtaining 

 a foundation consumed more than an hour. Even then the orb was 

 very irregular, and showed decided traces of the want of the usual 

 well and orderly laid foundations. An examination of a number 

 of web-sites which had been marked upon the same grounds, 

 showed that in every case where the surroundings had allowed an 

 easy and good entanglement by the wind, the spiders had made 

 webs at an early hour, and with straight and regular foundations. 



Dr. McCook concluded that the above observations, although 

 not wholly conclusive in themselves, were suflicient warrant for 

 the belief that air currents have a large part in placing the origi- 

 nal framework or foundation lines of orb-webs, and that spiders 

 habitually make use of them for that purpose. He doubted, how- 

 ever, whether there was anything like a deliberate purpose to 

 connect the point of occupancy with any special opposite point. 

 It seemed to him that the spider acted in the matter very much at 

 hap-hazard, but with a general instinct of the fact that such 

 behavior would somewdiere secure available attachments. Many 

 of her bridge lines were evidently tentative and were chiefly at 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPniA. 435 



the mercy of the breeze, although some observations seemed to 

 indicate a limited control of the thread by manipulation. 



He added that on previous occasions he had actually observed 

 the laying in, by air currents, of lines which were immediately used 

 for foundations. The above studies had been undertaken simpl}^ 

 to verify such studies, and because he had retained but the briefest 

 notes of former observations. While this use of air currents is 

 certainly placed beyond doubt, it is as certainly not the only 

 mode of laying foundation lines, and is dependent very much upon 

 the site chosen, the condition of the wind, the abundance of ])rey, 

 etc. Webs built in large open spaces are perhaps always laid out 

 by bridge-lines. In more contracted sites, the frame-lines are 

 generally carried around, and often a foundation is the result of 

 both methods.^ 



October 11. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Three hundred and sixty-four persons present. 



On the Nature of the Diplifheritic Gontagium. — Dr. H. C. Wood 

 stated that the researches which formed the basis of his remarks 

 had been made under the auspices, and. indeed, at the suggestion of 

 the National Board of Healtli, by Dr. Henry F. Formad and 

 himself, who were jointly responsible for the facts and inductions 

 and jointly desei'ving of whatever reprobation or approbation 

 might be due. The full text of the work is now in the hands of 

 the National Board, and will be shortly published by them. 



In the spring of 1880 work was begun by inoculating rabbits 

 with diptheritic membrane taken from the throats of patients at 

 Philadelphia. It was found that only in a very few cases was anj^- 

 thing like diphtheria produced m the rabbit by inoculating with 

 the membrane. The inoculations were practiced by putting 

 pieces of the material sometimes under the skin, sometimes deep 

 in the muscles. Man}' rabbits died after some weeks, not of 

 diphtheria, but of tuberculosis. In a series of experiments it was 

 shown that this tuberculosis was an indirect and not a direct 

 result of the inoculation, and that any apparent I'elati on between 

 the two diseases is only apparent, not real. Next, the tracheas of 

 a series of rabbits were opened and false membrane inserted. It 



1 Since these notes were communicated, a copy of Nature (Sept. 23, 1881 ) 

 lias been received, in which it is said that Mr. Cambridge in the second 

 volume of his Spiders of Dorset modifies the opinion above quoted con- 

 cerning the influence of air currents. I have not yet received that volume 

 but make this statement on the authority of the journal referred to. — 

 H. C. McC. 




436 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



was found that under these circumstances a severe trachitis was 

 frequt'ntly i)roduced, and was attended by an abundant formation 

 of pseudo-membrane. Careful studies made of the false mem- 

 brane of diphtheria and of this false membrane showed that the 

 two were identical, both containing in abundance fibrin fibres, 

 corpuscular elements, and various foi-ms of micrococci. To deter- 

 mine wliether other inflammations of the trachea than that caused 

 by diplitheria or its membrane are accompanied by the formation 

 of false membrane, a number of experiments were made, and it 

 w^as demonstrated that the production of false membrane has 

 nothing specific in it, but that any trachitis of sufficient severity 

 is accompanied by this product. Careful studies also showed 

 that this false membrane does not differ in its constitution from 

 that of trne diphtheria, except it be that the micrococci are not so 

 abundant in it. They always found some micrococci, and in 

 some of these traumatic pseudo-membranes they were almost as 

 numerous as in the diphtheritic exudation. 



Last spring the}' resumed tlieir investigations. Having heard 

 that there was a very severe epidemic in Ludington, Michigan, 

 Dr. Form.ad was despatched to examine cases and collect material. 

 He found a small town situated npon the shore of Lake Michigan, 

 in the centre of the lumber region, with inhabitants mostly 

 engaged in the lumber trade and in managing very numerous 

 large saw-mills. The town was all built upon high ground 

 except the Third Ward. This occupied a low swamp which had 

 been filled in largely with sawdust. The soil was so moist that a 

 hole dug in it would fill at once with water, and but few houses 

 had any attempts at cellars. It was in this district that the 

 disease had prevailed. Almost all the children had had it, and 

 one-third of them were said to have died. Dr. FoTmad examined 

 a large number of cases, obtained a supply of diphtlieritic mem- 

 brane and brought home pieces of the internal organ of a child 

 upon whom he had made an autopsy. La ever}^ case the blood 

 was found more or less full of micrococci, some free, others in 

 zoogloa? masses, others in the white blood-corpuscles. The 

 organs brought home also all contained micrococci, which were' 

 especially abundant in the kidneys, where they formed numerous 

 thrombi, choking np and distending the blood vessels. In the 

 summer of 1880 they examined the blood of several cases of 

 endemic Philadelphia diphtheria, and in no case found au}^ new 

 elements in it. I3ut during the present summer the}- had found 

 micrococci in the blood of Philadelphia diphtheritic patients, 

 showing that the differences in the diseases are simph' in degree, 

 not in kind. 



Experiments were now made with the Ludington material upon 

 animals. Inoculations were practiced under the skin, deep in 

 the muscles, and in the trachea. In all cases the result was 

 similar. A grayish exudation ai)peared at the seat of inoculation, 

 along with much local inflammation, the animal sickened, and in 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 437 



the coiu'se of a few days death occurred. The local symptoms 

 increased and widened. In some cases the false membrane 

 spread from where the poison had been put in the trachea up to 

 the mouth. The blood examined during life or after death was 

 found to contain micrococci precisely similar to those found in 

 the Ludinoton cases, and in a few instances micrococci were 

 found in abundance in the internal organs. Studies made upon 

 the blood of these animals, as well as upon the Ludington cases, 

 show that the micrococci first attack the white blood-corpuscles, 

 in Avhich they move with a vibratile motion. Under their influ- 

 ence the corpuscles alter their appearances, losing their granula- 

 tions. The}- finall}'^ become full of the micrococci, which now are 

 quiescent and increase until the corpuscle bursts and the contents 

 escape as an irregular, transparent mass full of micrococci, and 

 form the so-called zoogloae masses. In the diphtheiitic membrane 

 the micrococci exists frequently in balls, and it is plain that these 

 collections are merely leucocytes full of the plant. The bone- 

 marrow of the animal was found full of leucocytes and cells con- 

 taining micrococci. 



The question now arose, is the disease produced by diphtheritic 

 inoculation in the rabbit diphtheria ? They concluded that it is, 

 because the poison producing it is the same, the symptoms mani- 

 fested during life are the same, and the post-mortem lesions are 

 identical. The contagious character of the disease is retained, as 

 they succeeded in passing it from rabbit to rabbit. 



Their next series of experiments were directed to determine 

 whether the micrococci are or are not the cause of the att'ection. 

 The experiments of Curtis and Satterthwaite, of New York, have 

 shown that the infectious character of diphtheria depends upon 

 its solid particles ; for when an infusion of the membrane was 

 filtered, it became less and less toxic in proportion as the filtra- 

 tion was more and more perfect ; and when the infusion was 

 filtered, through clay, the filtrate was harmless. 



The urine of patients suffering from malignant diphtheria is 

 full of micrococci, and may contain no other solid material. Fol- 

 lowing the experiments of Letzerich, the}^ filtered this urine and 

 then dried the filter-paper. Upon experimenting they found this 

 even more deadU'^ in its ett'ects than is the membrane. The 

 symptoms and lesions following in the rabbit inoculation with 

 such paper are precisely those which would have ensued had a 

 piece of diphtheritic kidne}' or membrane been employed. This 

 experiment shows that the solid particles of the membrane, 

 which are the essential poison of malignant diphtheria, are the 

 micrococci, which must be either the poison itself or the carriers 

 or producers of the poison. 



Culture. — Experiments were performed in the manner com- 

 mended b}^ Klein and that recommended by Sternberg. The first 

 method seemed the best for the purpose of studying the develop- 




438 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



niont of the micrococcus itself; the second, the best for the 

 obtaining of it in quantity for experimentation. 



Micrococci were cultivated from the surface of ordinary sore 

 thruats, from furred tongue, from cases of mild diphtheria as 

 commonly seen in Philadelphia, and from Ludingtou cases. 

 There were no diflerences to be detected in the general or special 

 appearance of the various micrococci, and no constant differences 

 in size. They all formed similar shapes in the culture-apparatus ; 

 they had this difference, however, — whilst the Ludington micro- 

 cocci grew most rapidly and eagerly, generation after generation 

 up to the tenth, those from Philadelphia diphtheria ceased their 

 growth in the fourth or fifth generation, whilst those taken from 

 furred tongue, never got beyond the third transplantation. 

 Various culture-fluids were used, but the results were identical. 

 They concluded, therefore, that as no difference is detectable 

 between the micrococci found in ordinary sore throat and those 

 of diphtheria, save only in their reproductive activity, they are 

 the same organisms in different states. As the result of some 

 hundreds of cultures, they believe that the vitality under artificial 

 culture is in direct proportion to the malignancy of the case 

 from which the plant has been taken. 



They next made a series of experiments of inoculating rab- 

 bits with cultivated micrococci, and succeeded in producing 

 diphtheria with the second generation, but never with an}- later 

 product. This success, taken in conjunction with the urine 

 experiments already spoken of, seemed sufficient to establish the 

 fact that the micrococci are theyb??.s et origo mali of diphtlieria. 

 The experiments of Pasteur and others have proven that it is 

 possible for an inert organism to be changed into one possessed 

 of most virulent activity, or vice versa, and it was believed that 

 direct proof could be offered that the micrococci of the mouth 

 are really identical in species with the micrococci of diphtheria, 

 and do not merely seem to be so. The Ludington membrane 

 was exposed for some weeks to the air in a dried condition. 

 There was no putridity or other change detectable in it ; but, 

 whereas formerly it had been most virulent, now it was inert, 

 and its micrococci not only looked like those taken from an 

 ordinary angina, but acted like them. They were not dead, they 

 had still power of multiplication, but they no longer grew in the 

 culture-fluid beyond the third or fourth generation. Certainly 

 they were specifically the same as they had been, and certainly, 

 therefore, the power of rapid growth in culture-fluids and in the 

 body of the rabbit is not a specific character of the diphtheria 

 Micrococcns. 



As is well known, Pasteur attributes the change from an active 

 to an inert organism to the influence of the oxygen of the air 

 upon the organism. Whether this be true of the diphtheria 

 Micrococcus is uncertain, but the effects of exposure of the dried 

 membrane seem to point in such direction. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 439 



With the facts that are known in regard to the clinical history 

 oC diphtheria and those Avhich they had determined in their 

 research, it is easy to make out a theory of the disease which 

 reconciles all existing differences of opinion and seems to be trne. 



A child gets a catarrhal anaina or trachitis. Under the stimu- 

 lation of tlie inflammation products the inert micrococci in the 

 mouth begin to grow ; and, if the conditions be favoiable, the 

 sluggisli plant may be finally transformed into an active organism, 

 and a self-generated diphtheria results. It is plain that if this be 

 correct there must be every grade of case between one which is 

 fatal and one w4iich is checked before it fairly passes the bounds 

 of an ordinary sore throat. Every practitioner knows that such 

 diversity does exist. Again, conditions outside of the body 

 favoring the passage of inert into active micrococci may exist, 

 and the air at last become well loaded with organisms, which, 

 alighting upon the tender throats of children, may begin to grow 

 and themselves produce violent angina, trachitis, and finally fatal 

 diphtheria. 



In the first instance we have endemic diphtheria as we see it in 

 Philadelphia; in the second, the malignant epidemic form of the 

 disease as it existed in Lndington. It is also apparent that in the 

 endemic cases the plant whose activity hf>s been developed within 

 the patient may escape "with the breath, and a second case of 

 diphtheria be produced hy contagion. It is also plain that as the 

 plant gradually in such a case passes from the inert to the active 

 state, there must be degrees of activity in the contagium, one case 

 beino- more apt to give the disease than is another ; also that the 

 malignant diphtheria must be more contagious than the mild 

 endemic cases. 



October 18. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-seven persons present. 



A paper entitled " Revision of the Tertiary Species of Area of 

 the Eastern and Southern United States," by Angelo Heilprin, 

 was presented for publication. 



The death of Dr. Benj. H. Coates, a member, was announced. 



Note.-; on Mistletoes. — Mr. Thomas Meehan called attention to 

 some fine specimens on the table of Phoradendi'on juniperum., 

 var. Lihocedri Engelraann, and Arceuthobium occidentale var. 

 abielinum Engelmann, from Washoe Vallej', Nevada, contributed 

 by Mrs. Ross Lew-ers of J^ranktown and said it might be worth 

 noting a few facts in relation to Mistletoes, which, though perhaps 




440 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



not ■wholly new to specialists, did not seem to be generally 

 known. 



The Mistletoe of the Eastern States had a general resemblance 

 to that of Enrope, Viscum album; but the old genus Vincum liad 

 been divided by modern botanists, altliongh the lines of distinc- 

 tion were somewhat artificial. We had two genera, F/ioradendron 

 and Arceiil/iobium. Among the leading distinctions might be 

 mentioned that the European branch of the family, Vificam, as 

 now restricted, had the anther open by three pores on slits, our 

 Phoradendron by two. while the Arceuthobium had but one. 

 There were other slight difterences in pollen grains, cotyledons, 

 and form of the fruits. The Euroi)ean Mistletoe is usually 

 founded on deciduous trees only, an instance being recorded 

 where it had been found on the Scotch pine in Germany, and its 

 American repvesentat'ive, Phoradendron flavescens Nuttall, seemed 

 also confined to deciduous trees and shrubs.^ This extends across 

 the continent, a form being found on the Pacific coast still con- 

 fined to deciduous plants ; while another genus, Arceuthobium, 

 seems wholly confined to the coniferous trees which are mixed 

 with the deciduous ones. The name Arceuthobium is suggestive of 

 this fact, it being derived from two Greek words signifying " living 

 on the juniper." Phoradendron, on the other hand, meaning simply 

 "living on, or stealing from trees." Arceuthobium, however, did 

 not live wholly on junipers. In the herbarium of the Academy was 

 a specimen of A. occidentale, growing on Janiperus occidentalis — 

 these Nevada specimens were on Pin usponderosa. The specimens 

 of Phorade ndron j uniper inum -were growing on Libocedrusdecur- 

 rens, which, by the way, was, he believed, the first time this pretty 

 cupressineous tree had been reported from the State of Nevada. 

 Among the difiierences noted by Engelmann in the botany of 

 California, between Phoradendron and Arceuthobium, was that 

 while the former flowered in February and March, and matured 

 its fruit " next winter," the fruit of the Californian species 

 opened in the summer, and did not mature till the " second 

 autumn." The European Mistletoe was stated by Bentham to 

 open in spring, and perhaps this was so; it was formerly supposed 

 to be the case with the American Phoradendron flavescens, but 

 Mr. Wm. Canby had shown to the Academy recently, that in 

 Delaware the fiowers opened in the fall, and the fruit matured in 

 the autumn of the following year, or just one year afterward. 

 The flowers and fruit were on tlie trees at the same time together*. 

 If this were general with Phoradendron, it still lessened the dis- 

 tinctions between the genera. Usually Phoradendron bore leaves, 

 while Arceuthobium was leafless — but the Libocedrus parasite 

 was as destitute of leaves as an Arceuthobium, and the common 

 observer would see little in their general aspects to distinguis'h 



' Mr. Jos. .Jeanes believes he saw a specimen some years ago on Jbies 

 Canadensis. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 441 



them. But there Avas one great difference in the genus, at least 

 as represented by these two species. In opening tlie box which 

 contained the specimens, the whole mass was covered with a 

 dense viscid secretion, which rendered it very difficult to separate 

 one branch from another. On leaving the lid open a little while, 

 the watery particles soon evaporated, leaving a dry gummy 

 deposit over the whole surface. While this was going on, the 

 seeds were ejected with great force from their endocarps. being- 

 projected against the face with such force as to leave a stinging- 

 sensation. Dr. Engelmann has noted this power of ejection in 

 the berries of this plant. The Phoradendron exhibited no trace 

 of any such power, though there seemed to be little difference in 

 the structure of the berries. The facts raised a nice teleological 

 question. Birds did not seem to use the berries. As they were 

 so viscid that the famous bird-lime is made from some species, 

 it is |irobable the very visciditv would prevent the free use of the 

 beak in any attempt to use the seeds. But it was believed that 

 by becoming attached to the feet or feathers of birds, the seeds 

 were widely distributed, and that in this w^ay the plant had all the 

 advantage necessary for distribution in the " struggle for life." 

 But Arceuthohiuni^ besides all the advantages to be derived from 

 this mode of distribution, had an additional aid from a projecting 

 force. 



Did Ai'ceuthobium at one time exist when or where tliere were 

 no birds, and hnd it to depend on projection alone for its dis- 

 tributing power, and is the viscidity a later development ? Did 

 Phoradendron once possess the power, and has it abandoned it 

 from having through the ages found out that it travels well 

 enough without its exercise ? Or is it rather, as the speaker him- 

 self inclined to believe, that nature loved to aim expressly at 

 variety, and was continually exhibiting her power to accomplish 

 the same end by a wonderful variety of means ? But whatever 

 might be thought of the various theories of development, and 

 the laws of final causes which may have operated to produce 

 changes, there could be but little doubt but parasitism was an 

 acquired habit, and the endeavor to find out what these plants 

 w^ere, and how they behaved before they were parasites, was fast 

 becoming one of the most interesting of biological studies. 



The seeds ejected from the endoearp in Arceidhobium fastened 

 themselves to the branches of trees b}^ a glutinous mass at one 

 end. This end was opposite to the radicle, which, in germinating, 

 w'ould have to push out from above, and curve downwards towards 

 the branch in order to attach itself. He had not seen them during 

 the process of germination, but as the testaceous covering was 

 held fast by the glutinous secretion, it is probable the cotyledons 

 would be drawn out as the plumule took its upright position, 

 leaving the testa as an empt}^ case fastened to the branch. Pre- 

 suming that this must be the case with other Loranthaceous 

 plants, it was difficult to imderstand the process by which the 




442 PROCEEDINaS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



East Indian species performed the locomotive feat recently noted 

 by Dr. Watt, and which from its remarkable nature has hnd a Avide 

 publicaHon. It was leported as the ob'^ervation of Dr. Watt that 

 a seed fallino- on and beconrino; attached to the coriaceous leaf 

 of a Memecylon, would send out its radicle, which, curving down, 

 formed a flattened disk by which it attached itself to the leaf. 

 But, as if it knew that a leaf could not permanently supi»ort a 

 perennial plant, the cotyledons were lifted and turned to the other 

 side, when the end with tlie disk moved to another place, and in this 

 way, the seed traveled to a more favorable spot. Without reflecting 

 on the observation, Mr. Meelian believed it should be repeated in 

 order to be sure of no mistake. In all plants in our country 

 which fastened to an object through a disk at the end of a rootlet 

 or tendril, as in Ampelopsix and Bignonia capreolata, the attach- 

 ment was made while the disk w-as forming. A disk once formed, 

 did not reattach itself to an object when removed from the original 

 spot. In like manner the cotyledons, once removed from the 

 endocarps, would have no viscidity with wdiich to form a resisting 

 power while the disk was unfastening itself from its undesirable 

 location. There was, however, so much of singular behavior in 

 the Mistletoe family that further observations were very desirable. 



Dr. Geo H. Horn observed that the Mistletoe which was para- 

 sitic on the "Mesquite" in Arizona {Phoradendron Calif orni- 

 cumf)^ had flowers and fruit together in the autumn. 



Mr. Geo. W. Holstein observed that this was also the case with 

 the species {Phoradendron Jiavescens?) which grew on the elms 

 in Texas. 



DimorphUm in a Willoiv. — Mr. Thomas Meehan called atten- 

 tion to branches of a willow on the table, presented by a member, 

 Mr. Edward Potts, which were gathered by his brother from one 

 plant in the Adirondacks. Besides the certaint}' tliat they were 

 from one plant, for which Mr. Potts was willing to vouch, he 

 observed tliat the buds and other points indicated a community 

 of origin. But while the normal leaves were broadly ovate — 

 about two inches long by over one broad — the leaves on the other 

 branch, though quite as long, were not over a line wide. The 

 species so far as one could judge of a willow having mere leaves, 

 appeared to be Salix reticulata. Dimorphism in foliage, is not 

 uncommon in many trees, but it was worth noting that change by 

 gradual modification was not the law in these variations. The 

 change of one form to another quite dissimilar, was usually made 

 b}' a wide leap, without any intemiediale changes, and he believed 

 this to be the rule in specific as well as individual dcA^elopment. 

 It was nothing against the doctrine of evolution that there were 

 " missing links." 



Occurrence of the same species of Protozoa on both sides of the 

 Atlantic. — Mr. Ryder remarked that during his sojourn at Cherry- 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 443 



stone, Virginia, he bad met with another ciliated protozoan, Licno- 

 phora cohnii. in the waters of the Chesapeake, also found in the 

 Mediterranean and North Sea, and now for the first time recorded 

 as occurring in the American fauna. The existence of congeneric 

 and conspecitic protozoan forms on both sides of the Atlantic 

 had been alluded to before by the speaker ; of these he had noticed 

 Gothurnise, VorticeMse^ Zoothamnia, Freia producta, Tintinnus, 

 Bfiipiododendron, and several Gastrotricha which appear con- 

 specific with old world types. 



October 25. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Thirt3Miine persons present. 



Art. 3, Chap. XV, of the By-Laws was amended by adding 

 after the word "election" in the second line, the words "and 

 resignation." 



Mr. W. N. Lockington was elected a member. 

 The following were ordered to be printed : — 




444 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



NOTE ON THE APPROXIMATE POSITION OF THE EOCEIJE DEPOSITS OF 



MARYLAND. 



BY ANGELO IIEILPRIN. 



The positive determination of the relation which the older 

 Tertiary deposits of Maryland — those of Ft. Washington, near 

 the City of Washington, and Piscatawa}^ and Upper Marlborough 

 in Prince George's County — hold. to the typical American Eocene 

 series as exhibited in Alabama, can only be arrived at when a 

 direct stratigraphical continuity can be traced between the 

 deposits of the two states, or between their previously recognized 

 representatives in the intervening states. This is due to the fact 

 that several members of the Eocene series appear to be absent 

 from this portion of the Atlantic border, but exactly which it has 

 as yet been impossible to determine. The presence of strata of 

 Jacksonian age has never been detected, nor have we an}' positive 

 knowledge concerning the existence in the State of any beds which 

 maybe looked upon as the equivalents of the Orbitoide limestone, 

 although Oligocene (Vicksburgian) strata may exist along the 

 Chesapeake. But whether the deposits in question — Ft. Wash- 

 ington, Piscataway, and Upper Marlborough — represent the 

 Cl:iibornian,Buhrstone,or Eo-Lignitic is a matter of considerable 

 uncertainty, perhaps largely due to their comparatively feeble 

 development. Almost the onl^' evidence we have bearing upon 

 this point is derived from the character of the contained fossils, 

 but even here the results obtained are far from satisf^ictor}^, and 

 for two reasons: in the first place, the charpcter of the Eocene 

 fossils is largely uniform throughout the greater portion of the 

 entire series, as is shown by nearly the lowest and highest 

 exposures in the State of Alabama ; and in the second place, the 

 great distance intervening between the two localities — Alabama 

 and Maryland — may readily account for certain differences in the 

 general aspect of the two fossil faunas, which otherwise would 

 probably be attributable to a non-contemporaneity in the periods 

 of their introduction. The evidence afforded by lithological char- 

 acters is almost equall}'^ unsatisfactory, since there is a frequent 

 repetition of the general rock aspect — green sands, clays, and 

 siliceous marls — observable at different stages of the series. 

 Conrad, the only investigator whose observations on this subject 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 445 



are of scientific value, affirms tliat the majorit}' of the fossil mol- 

 Insca are of the Claiborne type, and he conseqnenth^ correlates 

 the beds containing them in a general way with those exposed on 

 the Alabama River, although without specially indicating with 

 what portion of the Claiborne section they were supposed to cor- 

 respond. Indeed, about the onl}^ fossils obtained from tlie Mary- 

 land localities which can in an}' way be said to be either charac- 

 teristic of or peculiar to them are Fanopea elongata, Pholadomya 

 Mai-ylandica^ Pholas ^le/z'osa, Cucullsea {Latiarca) gigantea, 

 Osfrea comprensirostra, and one or two doubtful species of Cras- 

 satella. All the species here named, if we except the doubtful 

 Grafisatellas and Ostrea compressirostra are good species, and if 

 we further deduct Cucullsea gigantea^ the onl}^ Eocene species of 

 the genera to which they belong thus far discovered in the eastern 

 or southern United States. On the whole, therefore, the^^ afford 

 little or no clue to the exact determination of the age of the 

 deposits in which they occur. It is true that an examination of 

 the homotaxial deposits of Europe shows the genera Pholadomya 

 and Panopea to be more especially characteristic of the lower or 

 even lowermost horizons of the Eocene series, as in the English 

 and French basins, but no special inference can be drawn from 

 this circumstance, since the species are not the same, and the 

 genera survived through tlie succeeding periods to the present 

 day. In the case of Osti^ea compressirostra, however, we have a 

 much more tangible point. The species, first described and 

 figured b}^ Sa}^ (Journal of the Academ}' of Natural Sciences, iv, 

 p. 133), is certainl}"^ very intimately related to the Ostrea Bellova- 

 cina of Lamarck, and apparentl}^ undistinguishable from certain 

 varieties of that species.^ Now this species, although not exclu- 

 sivel}' restricted to the lowest Eocene beds, is nevertheless highly 

 characteristic of the Thanet sands, below the London Clay proper 

 and also below what was formerl}^ designated as the " Plastic 

 Clay " series, where it constitutes a true basement accumulation ; 

 and it holds almost precisely the same relation to the beds of the 

 Paris basin, where, according to Deshayes {Animaux s. Vertebres^ 



^ The distinguishing characters of the beaks pointed out by Say do not 

 seem to hold in many instances, as is proved by specimens of the G. Bello- 

 vacina from the " London Clay" of Bognor, England, in the collections of 

 the Academy, which do not dift'er as much from certain American speci- 

 mens as these last do among themselves. 




44G PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



Bassin de Paris, li, p. 117) it occupies tlie boiizon of the Bracheux 

 sands. The species wherever found appears to be considerably 

 restricted in its vertical range, and its occurrence, therefore, in 

 some of the American deposits would seem to afford some more 

 decided indication of the true age of tliose deposits than could be 

 obtained from the character of the limited number of its con- 

 tained fossils taken as a whole. Associated with Ostrea compres- 

 sirostra were found casts of the large Cucullsea gigantea (Conrad, 

 Journ. Ac. Nat. Sciences, vi, p. 215, 1830;, a species which appears 

 not to be represented in any of the equivalent European forma- 

 tions. But in Virginia, in beds which can be shown to be tlie 

 direct equivalents of those of Maryland, there occurs in addition 

 to the G. gigantea of Conrad, a second species of Cuculleta^ the 

 C, onochela of Rogers (Trans. Am. Philos. Soc, new ser., vi, p. 

 373 ; Latiarca idonea Conr., Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences, 1872, p. 

 53 — no locality stated), which, if not identical with tlie C. craa- 

 satina of Lamarck, from the Bracheux sands of the Paris basin, 

 is certainly most intimately related to it, and can be considered in 

 every wa}- as its immediate representative,^ It should also be 

 stated that the only other species of Cucullsea described by Des- 

 hayes {Animaux s. Vertehr.^ Bassin de Fai-is, i, p. i09) from the 

 Paris basin ( G. incerta Desh.) is found in the same horizon with 

 the 6'. crassa^ina, and, likewise, the single species described by 

 Searles Wood from the older Tertiaiies of England is a /oicer 

 Eocene form 



If such comparisons are of any value stratigraphically we may 

 fairly look upon the Mar3dand Eocene deposits — the Piscataway 

 sands below, and the Marlborough rock above — as representing a 

 horizon nearly equal to that of the Thanet sands of p]ngland and 

 the Bracheux sands of the Paris basin, or of the British Bognor 



' I have had no specimens of tha European species with which to insti- 

 tute direct comparisons, but as tlie species is a large one, and with well- 

 defined characters, I have relied upon the figures and characters as fur- 

 nished by Daalvc^ye^ {Coquilles Fossile», Enmrons de Paris, i, p. 198 ; Atlas, 

 PL xxxi, tigs. 8 and 9), which are well known for their accuracy. The C. 

 crassatina is catalogued by Prestwich (Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, 1834, p. 

 109) and Morris ("Cat. Brit. Foss.," p. 197) as being also an English 

 form, and as belonging to the Thanet series, but by Searles Wood ('• Mon- 

 ograph of the Eocene Mollusca " Bivalves, in Pakeont. Soc. Reports, 1861, 

 p. 94), the species occurring at Ilerne Bay, Faversliani, etc., is oousideied 

 to be distinct ( C. decussata Park). 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 447 



rock (= London Clay).^ In either case they would be near the 

 base of the Eocene series. 



In the scale of the American series as exhibited in Alabama, 

 they would occupy a position probably near the base of the 

 " Buhrstone," or possibl}^ even lower, as the equivalents of the 

 beds exposed <m Bashia Creek, and Cave and Knight's Branches 

 (" Eo-lignitic "). 



^ The similarity existing between the Marlborough and Bognor rocks 

 has been pointed out by Conrad (Proc. National Institution, p. 172, 1841). 



3) 




448 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



A REVISION OF THE TERTIARY SPECIES OF ARCA OF THE EASTERN 

 AND SOUTHERN UNITED STATES. 



BY ANGELO HEILPRIN. 



In the following enumeration I have reduced all the species to 

 the single genus Area, the various modifications of form and 

 ornamentation not appearing to me to be either sufficiently well 

 marked, or of suflflcient importance, to constitute points for generic 

 subdivision. The Area gigantea Sind A. onochela are forms which 

 would fall in the subgenus Cucullaea. 



The names in parentheses are those under which the species are 

 indicated in the "Smithsonian Check Lists " of 1864 and 1866; 

 they are repeated here merely to facilitate comparisons with those 

 lists, and in no way represent the views of the author on the sub- 

 ject of generic relationship. 



Eocene. 



A. aspera Conr. (Barbatia; Calliarca) Jacksonian. Miss. 



Proc. A. N, S., vii, p. 258, as Navicula. 



A. cucuUoides Conr. (Cucullaroa). Ala. 



Tert. Foss,, 1st ed,, p. 37. 



A. gigantea Conr. (Latiarca). • Md. 



J. A. N. S., vi, p. 227. 



? A. lima Conr. Jacksonian. Tex. 



J. A, N. S., 2d ser., p. 125, as Byssoarca. 

 A. (Byssoarca) Misaissippiensis Conr, J. A. N. S., 2d ser., p. 125 



(young). 

 Cibota Missiasippiensis Gabb. J. A. N. S., iv, 2d ser., p. 387. 



I am somewhat doubtful as to the correct determination of his 

 species by Gabb. 



A. onochela Rogers (Latiarca), Va. 



Trans, Am, Phil, Soc, 1839, p, 372, as CumlloBa. 

 Latiarca idonea Conr. Proc. A, N. S,, 1872, p, 53 (no locality). 



This species appears to be very closely related to, if not identical 

 with the Cueullsea crassatina of Lamarck, from the lower 

 Soissonnais sands of the Paris basin, and possibly also from the 

 British Bognor rock, 



A protraota Rogers (Ana''ara). Va. 



Trans. Am, Phil. Soc, new ser,, v, p. 332. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 449 



I have seen no specimen of this species, and therefore rely 

 solely upon the description and figure as given by Rogers ; I am 

 inclined to doubt its validity. 



A. rhomboidella Lea. (Anomalocardia). Ala' 



"Contributions to Geology," p. 74. 



A. Bogersi Heilpr. V;i . 



Area (Cucullcea) transversa Rogers. Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, 1839, 

 p. 373. Specific name transversa, preoccupied by Say. 



I have seen no specimen of this species, and judging from the 

 figures illustrative of Rogers' description it appears as though it 

 may prove to be only a variety of A. onochela. 



Oligocene. 

 A. lima Conr. Miss. 



J. A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 125, as Byssoarea. 



A. {Byssoarea) Mississippiensis Conr. (young). J. A. N. S., i, 2d ser., 



p. 125. 



This species is most closely related to the A. rudis Desh., an 

 Eocene, Oligocene and Miocene (?) fossil of western and southern 

 Europe ; it differs from the recent A. Helhingii Brug. (= A. 

 harhata L. ?), of which the A. rudis is stated by Deshayes to be 

 possibly only a variety, in the strong carination of the posterior 

 slope. 



A. Mississippiensis Conr. Miss. 



J. A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 125. 



A. sabprotracta Heilpr. Mis?. 



Conrad, J. A. N. S., i, 2d ser., p. 126, as Byssoarea protracta ; specific 

 name preoccupied by Rogers, Trans. Am. Phil. Soc, new ser., v, 

 p. 332. 



Miocene. 



A. arata Say (Scapharca). Md. 



J. A. N. 8., iv, p. 137. Conr., Mioc. Foss., p. 58. 



This species is enumerated on the authority of Sa}^ and Conrad ; 

 I have seen no specimens of it, and am doubtful whether it is not 

 a form subsequently described under a new name by Conrad. It 

 seems to have been closely related either to A. limula or A. Car- 

 olinensis. 



A. brevidesma Conr. N. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 62, 



(Not enumerated in the " Smithsonian Check List " of 1864.) 




450 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



A. buccula Conr. N. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 60, 



(Not enumerated in the " Smithsonian Check List " of 1864.) 



A. caelata Conr. (IJarbatin). N. Car. 



Mioc. Foss , p. 61. 



A. callipleura Conr. (Scapha'ca). Md. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 54. 



A. Carolinensis Conr. (Noetia). N. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., 1863, p. 290, as A. ponderosa var. Carolinensis. 



This species differs from the recent A. jDonderoaa (Say) of the 

 Atlantic coast in having a comparatively longer hinge margin, a 

 much more elongated posterior slope, and the umbones less promi- 

 nently incurved. 



A. oentenaria Say (Striarca). Va. ; Md. ; N. Car. 



J. A. N. S., iv, p. 138. Conrad, Mioc. Foss., p. 55. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. Car., 1858, p. 284. 



This species \Qvy closely resembles both in outline and general 

 ornamentation the recent A. solida (Brod. and Swby.), but it 

 lacks the posterior carination of that species, and the ribs are 

 much less distinctly beaded. 



A idonea Conr. (Scapharca). Md. ; N. Car. 



Tert. Fossils, 2d ed., p. 16. Mioc. Foss., p. 55. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. Car., p. 285. 

 A, stilicidium? * Conr. Tert. Foss., 2d ed., p. 15. 



* This species is stated by Conrad (Mioc. Foss., p. 55) to be the young 

 of A. idonea ; I have not seen sufficient specimens of the former to deter- 

 mine this point with positiveness, but the variation scarcely appears to be 

 of specific value. Both species are recorded in the "Smithsonian Check 

 List" for 1864. 



The A. idonea greatl}^ resembles the A. incongrua of Say, a 

 recent species from the southern Atlantic coasts of the United 

 States, from which, however, it can be readily distinguished by 

 several well-defined characters. In A. idonea the anterior ribs 

 are narrower than the interspaces, whereas, in A. incongrua 

 (where the ribs are much more prominently transversely barred) 

 the reverse is very decidedly the case. Again, in A. idonea the 

 hinge area is marked with several " diamond-shaped " longi- 

 tudinal impressions, while in A. incongrua it is transversely 

 striated. The shell in the recent species is also much more 

 prominently inequivalve. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 451 



A. incile Say (Anadara). Va. ; N. Car. 



J. A. N. S., iv, p. 139. Conrad, Mioc. Foss., p. 56. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. Car., 1858, p. 284. 



A. lienosa Say (Scnpharca). N. Car. 



American Conchology, PI. 36, fig. 1. 

 Emmons, Geol. N. Car., p, 384. 



This species appears to be undistiuguishable from tlie recent 

 A. Floridana Conr., the specific name of wliich will consequently 

 have to be replaced b}^ that of Say's species, which has priorit}'. 



A. limula Conr. (Noetia). Va. : X. Car. 



Tert. Foss., 2d ed., p. 15 ; Mioc. Foss., p. 60. 



A. Marylandicus Conr. (Barbatia). Md. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 54, as Byssoarca. 



A. plioatura Conr. (Scapharca). N. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 61. 



A. improcera Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 60 (young). 

 A. lirieolata Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 61. 

 A. (equicostat.a * Conr. Mioc. Foss., p. 60. 



* I have seen no authenticated specimens of this last, but feel satis- 

 fied that it is no other than tlie A. lineolata, with the description of which 

 it thoroughly agrees. A specimen of A. lineolata, so marked by Conrad, 

 is the one from which the figure of A. mquicostata in Mioc. Foss. ^Pl. 31, 

 fig. 6) has been taken. 



The A. plicatura (I have retained the name as best illustrative 

 of the specific character of the fossil) differs principally from the 

 recent A. transversa of Say in being a less capacious shell, and 

 in having the posterior slope much less distinctly angulated or 

 carinated. The young shells of both species appear to be undis- 

 tiuguishable from each other, and although there are sufficiently 

 well-marked characters separating the full grown, I have but little 

 hesitation in believing that the coast shell of the present day 

 (which appears also as a post-Pliocene fossil) is only a derivative 

 from the fossil form. The A. plicatura recalls the A. diluvii, 

 from the European Miocene deposits. 



A. propatula Conr. (Barbatia). Va, 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 323 ; Mioc. Foss., p. 61. 

 ? Area hians Tuomey and Holmes. Plioc. Foss., p. 34. 



The figure of this species in the " Pleiocene Fossils," very 

 closel}' resembles the type specimen of Conrad's A. propatula^ 

 and I have but very little doubt (although I have not seen an 




452 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



authenticated specimen of A. hians) tliat the two species are in 

 fact identical, despite the supposed distinctions pointed out by 

 Tuouiey and Holmes. 



A. soalaris Conr. (Scapharca) N. Car. ; Va. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 324 ; Mioc. Foss., p. 59. 



A. subrostata Cinr. (Scapharcn), Md. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 30. Mioc. Foss., p. 58. 

 A. tenuicardo Conr. Am. Journ. of Conchology, v, p. 39. 



A. subsinuata Conr. (Scapbarca). N. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 62. 



A. transversa Say (Scapbarca). Va.; N. Car 



J. A, N. S., ii, p. 269. Conrad, Foss. Shells Tert. Form., p. 15; 

 Emmons, Geol. of North Carolina, 1858, p. 285. 



I have but little doubt that the species here described is one of 

 tlic various forms of A. plicatura. 



A iriquetra Conr. (Scapbarca), Md. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 305. Mioc. Foss., p. 59. 

 = A. staminea? Say, "American Conchology," p. 36, fig. 2. (In Say's 



description the anterior extremity of the shell is described as the 



posterior, and vice versa). 



Somewhat resembles the recent A. rhombea (Born). 



Pliocene. 



A. caelata Conr. (Barbatia). S. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 61. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 36. 



A. centenaria Say (Striarca). S. Car. 



J. A. N. S., iv, p. 138. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 37. 



.A. incile Say (Anadara). S. Car. 



J. A.N. S., iv, p. 139. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 35. 



A. incongrua Say (Scapbarca). S. Car. 



J. A.N. S., ii, p. 268. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 45. 



A. pexata S 'y ( Argina). S. Car. 



J. A. N. S., ii, p. 268. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 46. 



A. soalaris Conr. (Scapharca). S. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 324. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 43. 



A. lienosa Say (Scapbarca). S. Car. 



American Conchology, PI. 36, fig. 1. Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. 

 Foss., p. 40. 



A. plicatura Conr. (Scapharca). S. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 61. 

 A. improcera (young) Conr. ; Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 41. 




► 



1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 453 



1 A. propatula Conr. (Barbatia). S. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., i, p. 323. Mioc. Foss., p. 61. 



Area hians, Tuomey and Holmes, Plioc. Foss., p. 34, See note under 

 A. propatula (Miocene). 



A. rustica Tuomey and Holmes (Scapharca). S. Car. 



Mioc. Foss., p. 39. 



I have seen no specimen of this species, and can therefore not 

 pronounce upon its validity. The fragment illustrated in the 

 " Pleiocene Fossils " scarcely admits of recognition. 



A. trigintinaria Conr. (Anadara). S. Car. 



Proc. A. N. S., 1862, p. 289, as Anomalocardia. 



Area Americana^ A. Garolinensis, A. incongrua, A. lienosa 

 A. pexata, A. ponderosa, and A. transversa occur in the post- 

 Pliocene deposits ; A. ccdata is also reported from the South 

 Carolina deposits of that age by F. S. Holmes, 




454 proceedings of the academy of [1881. 



November 1, 1881. 

 The President, Dr. Rusciienberger, in tlie chair. 

 Thirty-four persons present. 



Color in Autumn Leaves. — Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to an 

 excursion to the Salt Marshes of New Jersey, organized by a 

 member of the Academ}'^, Mr. Isaac C. Martindale, and generously 

 seconded by the Camden and Atlantic Railroad Company, which 

 furnished a special train of twelve cars for the company, with the 

 privilege of stopping along the road at interesting botanical points. 

 This gave unusual opportunity to examine the vegetation of the 

 Salt Marshes, which, at this season of the jghy presented a scene 

 of colored beaut}^ unequaled perhaps in the whole world. 



Mr. Meehan remarked that the vegetation which for the most 

 part made up this flora, was either precisely the same as those 

 which entered into the flora of similar localities in western Europe, 

 or else of species so closely allied that onl}'^ critical examination 

 would show the distinction. The plant which gave the greatest 

 brilliancy, chiefly on account of its numerical proportions, was 

 Salicornia herbacea, the same plant which abounds along European 

 shores. To the rich ros}^ red of this species Salicornia mucronata 

 (of Bigelow, S. Virginica of most authors) added a rosy brown. 

 Although this species is American there are forms of S. herbacea 

 on the English coast, which approach it. The third species is S. 

 amhigua of Michaux, a perennial species, and the analogue of the 

 British S. radicans. This one never changes its bright green 

 color till severe frost destroys it. The lively green very much 

 enlivens the brilliancy of the orange, red and brown in the other 

 marsh plants. The species precisely the same with those of En- 

 gland which gave color to the marshes besides these Salicornias 

 were Salsola Kali^ Suseda maritima, Atrijylex 2)atula, Polygonum 

 maritinum, Spartina stricta^ Spartina juncea, and Ammophila 

 arenaria — the three last grasses which add much by their light 

 browns to the richness of the whole. Statice Limoniuni, by its 

 faded blue-gray tint, gave a peculiar element to the color. Aster 

 fiexuosus.^ closely related to Aster Tripolium of European marshes 

 furnished a tint of purple-green. So far as could be observed of 

 the many other species of plants which might be collected, these 

 were the only ones giving character to the beautifully colored 

 picture the marshes presented at this time. 



The most interesting inquiiy here presents itself — Why should 

 plants common in the main to both continents, color so much 

 more brightly in America than in Europe? We are reminded 

 that what we see here in these marsh plants, does not hold good 

 with close allies in other sj^ecies. Among trees and shrubs there 

 are some peculiar to each country, but closely allied, in which all 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 455 



the American allies color, while the European rarely do. He 

 named on the American side, Betula populifolia^ Fraxinus sambuci- 

 folia, Quercus alba^ Crataegus cordata^ Ulmus Americana, Alnus 

 serridata, Castanea Americana^ as against Betula alba, Fraxinus 

 excelsior, Quercus Robur, Crataegus oxyacantha, Ulmus cam- 

 pestris, Alnus glutinosa and Castanea vesca. The whole Ameri- 

 can line had autumn coloring, of which the parallel European 

 line was wholl}^ destitute. These trees did not lose this character- 

 istic by removal to the other continent. In America there were 

 many of the European species five or ten generations from seed, 

 and yet these last genei'ations showed no more disposition to 

 embrace the color characteristics of their American cousins, 

 than did the first progenitor brought from abroad. We were 

 so accustomed to associate our bright clear autumn skies with 

 the color of our autumn foliage, that facts like these stagger us. 

 Wh}' should several generations of these European trees resist 

 our climatal influences ? But we have to remember that the coloi*- 

 ing of fruits and foliage is not wholl}- the result of chemical power ; 

 what for want of a better name we know as vital power, claims 

 a share. 



Some apples have color on the sunny side, while the I'osy cheek 

 never appears on those of the same variet}' hidden b^^ the foliage, 

 and in these cases ib is self-evident sunlight is a cause of color. 

 Yet if we pluck such a variety from the tree, and place it in the 

 sunlight, it will not color, so that we see here that there must be 

 a connection with the living principle in the tree to enable the 

 solar ra3^s to act. Yet it requires a relaxation of the leaf's hold 

 on life to bring out these colors. At any time during the summer, 

 a maturing leaf on an American tree exhibits bright color — yet it 

 a djnug leaf half-colored, be plucked from the parent stem, there 

 is no further change in the tint. Mau}^ leaves pass through grades, 

 as green, light yellow, orange, brown, to scarlet. If they are 

 gathered at yellow or brown, the3- remain 3^ellow or brown, and 

 so on all through these stages. Coloring therefore, could not 

 whollj'^ be considered chemically, for though deca}^, Avhieh we take 

 to be a chemical action, is going on during the coloring stage, 

 complete separation from the living tree at once stops the process. 



If we consider these two facts together, and then some other 

 known natural laws, we may form some reasonable hypothesis. 

 There is, for instance, the principle of heredity, so ably insisted 

 on b}^ Mr. Darwin, in connection with all living things. A force 

 once applied to an object, exerts an influence after the power has 

 been removed. A Avheel runs round, after the hand which turns 

 it is taken away, and a change in a plant brought about by any 

 circumstance will continue in connection with that plant some 

 generations after the circumstances have ceased to exist. That 

 this is so has been proved by Naudin with hybrid, or perhaps we 

 should say crossed, lettuces, and in other ways. Supposing then 




456 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



these closely allied species to have been originally of one parent- 

 age, how did the power in one case to change to bright color, or 

 in the other to resist the tendency to color, originate ? If by 

 chemical power alone, it would occur at once, as a piece of white 

 wood is at once browned by fire, but with the vital principle 

 opposed to this chemically destructive principle, it would take 

 more time to accomplish this change; and the change, once made, 

 would again require more time to again alter the fixed condition. 

 This is essentiall}^ the foundation of the law of heredit}^, and under 

 its operation we could not reasonably look for a change in the color- 

 ing power of these European trees although light were an active 

 agent, under even more than five or ten inherited generations. 



At any rate we have in these salt-marsh plants the evidence that 

 the plants of one country, in that country colorless, can be made 

 to take the most brilliant colors when growing in ours. That 

 these plants had one primarj^ origin is certain, though the ancestry 

 ma}' have been separated b}^ thousands of years. We know that 

 plants introduced at once do not change at once — hei-edity forbids 

 it. We may assume therefore that it was only after some genera- 

 tions on the American coast, under the influence perhaps of 

 American light, that these European plants showed their Ameri- 

 can colors. We can see in these annual plants, with a new gener- 

 ation every year, the results in numerous generations, as we 

 cannot see in the slower reproducing tree. 



Mr. Meehan thought that though we could not say we had yet 

 reached an unchallengeable solution of the cause of autumn color 

 in American foliage, considerations like these brought us nearer 

 to the end. 



November 8. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-six persons present. 



On Movements and Paralysis in the Leaves of Rohinia. — Mr, 

 Thomas Meehan said that an inquiry of Prof. Sargent for a trunk 

 of Rohinia viscosa for the National Forestry Census, had led him 

 to look closely into the history of Rohinia in general, with some 

 interesting results. 



Though our text-books gave " Virginia and Southwards " as 

 the native location of the tree, no one seems to have collected it 

 of late years. Indeed herbarium specimens generally seemed to 

 be from cultivated plants, and he could find nowhere direct 

 evidence that it had ever been found wild by any botanist since 

 its original discovery by Wm. Bartram, as we learn from his 

 " Travels," and Michaux, as recorded by Ventenat in his " Plants 

 of the Garden of Cels," towards the end of the last century. In 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 451 



northeastern Pennsylvania and contiguous parts of New Jersey 

 he had seen it the past season, in a number of places in gardens, 

 and in most cases it was stated that the plants had originally been 

 obtained from almost inaccessible places on the high hills of that 

 part of the country. The fact that in these remote places trees 

 from the distant nurseries are seldom obtained, together with the 

 fact that the plant is not now nor probably has been for many 

 years cultivated in American nurseries, makes it possible that the 

 reports are true, and the plant may be found in the spurs of the" 

 higher Allegheny range. The highly viscose character of this 

 species is interesting. The excretory glands are low and broad, 

 with a crater-like mouth, from which the sticky matter flows, and 

 soon covers the stem as with a thick coat of varnish. The viscid 

 strength was such that in some instances the mere contact with a 

 lead-pencil was sufficient to draw a branch towards the person 

 pulling it. So man}^ plants with viscid secretions have insects 

 found adhering to the sticky matter, that it has been shrewdly 

 suspected the secretion in such cases is a design for entrapping 

 insects, from which the plant perhaps obtains a better supply of 

 nitrogen than in the ordinary manner through the atmosphere. 

 In the case of this clamm}^ locust no insect was found adhering, 

 though it would seem probable that some few, b}' blind accident, 

 at least, ought to have been found there. For what purpose in 

 the economy of the plant this secretion is formed, cannot be 

 conjectured. From this view of individual benefit alone to the 

 plant, or to the race, the secretion seemed an enormous waste of 

 nutritive power. This waste seemed even more conspicuous in 

 the inflorescence. It was too early to judge of the amount of 

 seed the plants would produce ; but many flowers had fallen, 

 leaving no ovarium behind in a single instance. There were no 

 indications that a solitary seed-vessel would result from all the 

 flowers which had expanded np to that time ; and if any seed 

 perfected, they would have to be from a few of the later flowers. 

 In any event, the amount of waste material in the barren flowers 

 was enormous. 



Here it was remembered that a belief widely prevails which 

 regards flowers and insects as having been interadapted to each 

 other. It is believed not only that flowers are often to be cross- 

 fertilized by insects before they can perfect seed, but that special 

 insects are adapted to certain plants, which in the absence of 

 these special insects remained barren. An ally of this clammy 

 Robinia, Robinia hispida, has been under culture in America and 

 Europe for a great many years ; but the speaker said he had 

 never seen nor knew of any one who had seen a single seed-vessel 

 from any garden plant. He had come to believe it probable that 

 some special insect, adapted to the pollinization of this plant, 

 existed in the native place of growth of this species, but which 

 insect had not followed the plant in its artificial distribution over 

 the earth. This season he had found the plant, for the first time 




458 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



in his botanical explorations, on the top of Lookout Mountain in 

 Tennessee; but there, as under cultivation, he failed to see a 

 single seed-vessel. He had been asked since, by a distinguished 

 Belgian scientific gentleman, whether he noted any plants among 

 the others which indicated a possibility of being recent seedlings. 

 It had not occurred to him to look especially for these ; but they 

 w^ould in all probability have been noticed if they had been 

 present. He said it was not to be inferred that because neither 

 lie nor others had found seed, the plant never produced them. 

 Experience with many other plants showed that they might be 

 barren for years, and then become suddenly fertile. It was more 

 than probable that long in the past these species were seminally 

 fertile, perhaps capable of self-fertilization, and that the infertility 

 of the flowers is a modern imbecility, which, as indicated in his 

 Detroit paper before the American Association for the Ad vancement 

 of Science, is the general concomitant of a species which has almost 

 run its race. That these two species rarely produced seeds in 

 modern times might be inferred from the fact, that though both 

 were very fertile in suckers, they were certainly limited to very 

 few locations. If with the power of producing seed to any 

 considerable extent, they would soon spread over wide areas. If 

 they had been deprived of the power of producing seed in very 

 far away ages, by the power of suckering alone they would 

 have been more widespread than they are. There seems to be no 

 other logical conclusion than that the plants once seeded freely ; 

 but that this power must have been long lost, to account for the 

 comparative limited areas to which the species are now confined. 



Perhaps the most interesting new facts noted are those connected 

 with the motion of the leaves in the two species named, as well 

 as in Rohinia jjseudacacia, though the most strongly marked in 

 Rohinia hispida. There is a diurnal as well as a nocturnal motion, 

 each in a separate direction. At a few hours before sundown, 

 each pair of pinna? are perfectly horizontal. The entire leaf is 

 perfectly flat. With sundown the leaflets begin to droop, till, by 

 dark, tliey are perfectly ])endent, the under surface of each leaflet 

 almost touching the under surface of the leaflet opposite to it. 

 With the advent of morning, the leaflets arise ; and soon after sun- 

 rise, the whole leaf is flat, as just before sundown, but they continue 

 to rise, till, by noon, the opposite leaflets have met above the 

 common petiole, almost touching each other by their upper 

 surfaces at midda}-, as they nearl}^ touch by their lower surfaces 

 \>y night. In other words, instead of traveling ninety degrees, as 

 do other plants the leaves of which "sleep "at night, these leaflets 

 make a daily circuit of one hundred and eighty degrees. 



Besides these novel facts, Mr. Meehan noticed what he could 

 not but regard as a case of paralysis. About the middle of 

 September, he noticed a sucker from one of his plants, which had 

 finished its growth for tlie season after having made about a dozen 

 nodes. While at midday the leaflets were erect, three leaves had 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 459 



all their leaflets drooping as at night. How long they may have 

 been in this condition before being noticed is not known, but they 

 continued in that " sleeping " condition till this date (November 7), 

 the others having gone through their motions dail}^ till now. 

 During the last few days, however, tlie thermometer having once 

 been nearl}^ down to freezing point, only the two or three upper 

 pinnules on the leaves have retained the power to move. The 

 paralyzed leaves were in every respect as health}^ looking as the 

 others, but they were, all three, somewhat smaller. If these had 

 been all together at the lower or upper end of the branch, the 

 peculiarity might have been referred to some cause connected 

 with maturity ; but the first paralyzed leaf was the third from the 

 top, the next the fifth, and the other the sixth ; that is to say, 

 there were leaves with perfect motile functions above and below 

 these, as well as one among the three. Though for the six weeks, 

 at least, they had lost the power of motion, the color and general 

 healthy appearance of the leaves were precisely the same as the 

 others. There was no difference whatever except in the length 

 of the common petiole and size of the leaves. They were about 

 three-fourths the ordinary size. The upward movement of the 

 pinnules in this species is confined to those exposed to the sun- 

 light ; those shaded by even their own foliage have not the power. 

 Mr. Meehan had previoush' called the attention of the Academy 

 to the fact that a large number of plants draw the upper surface 

 of the leaf together in bright light, as illustrations of which he 

 mentioned now : Halesia tetraptera^ Cornus JiojHda, Co7'nus mas 

 and Magnolia acuminata. 



November 15. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-one persons present. 



November 22. 



The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 



Twenty-nine persons present. 



A paper entitled " On a foetal Kangaroo and its Membranes," 

 by Henry C. Chapman, M. D., was presented for publication. 



The death of the Rev. Z. M. Humphrey, a correspondent, was 

 announced. 




460 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



November 29. 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine in the chair. 



Thirty-one persons present. 



The special business of the meeting being the nomination of 

 officers, councillors and members of the Finance Committee, a 

 letter from Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger was read, declining to 

 be a candidate for re-election to the office of President, whereupon 

 a committee, consisting of Messrs. Isaac C. Martindale, S. R. 

 Roberts and J. H. Redfield, was appointed to prepare a suitable 

 expression of the Academy's appreciation of Dr. Ruschenberger's 

 services to the society. 



December 6. 

 Mr. Thos. Meehan, Yiee-President, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



The genus Carterella vs. Spongiophaga Pottsi. — Mr. Edward 

 PoTTS referred to a paper (On Spongiophaga Pottsi n. sp., Ann. 

 and Mag. of Nat. Hist., Nov., 1881) by H. J. Carter, F. R. S., etc., 

 in which that eminent scientist gives an interpretation, differing 

 from his own, of the statosphere tendrils which form the char- 

 acteristic feature of the new genus of fresh-water sponges to 

 which Mr. Carter's name had been attached in recognition of his 

 very distinguished services. He wished to consider the subject 

 entirely apart from its personal relation to themselves; and only 

 as it concerned the stability of a genus, in which, as he claimed, 

 for the first time in the history of fresh-water sponges, these 

 tendrils had been noticed as distinctive features. 



He then, at some length, gave his reasons why we should not 

 accept Mr. Carter's theory of the parasitic nature of these tendrils 

 or filaments ; saying, that of the two points in the paper most 

 likely to impress a student who had not seen specimens of the 

 genus referred to, or one unfamiliar with the general subject, the 

 first was founded upon certain appearances represented in figure 

 2 of Mr. Carter's plate. This figure shows an " axial canal " 

 tlu'ough the centre of the filament, widening into the " tubular 

 prolongation from the process of the chitinous coat " of the stato- 

 sphere and representing the supposable digestive tract of the 

 animal parasite. 



As after repeated and very careful examination of numerous 

 specimens, both in a fresh condition and after being subjected to 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 461 



different methods of preparation, he had failed entirely to meet 

 ■with an instance showing similar appearances, he referred speci- 

 mens of all three species of the genus to Prof. Jos. Leid}^, whose 

 fame as an accurate observer is world-wide ; to Mr. Jno. A. Ryder, 

 and to Prof. Kellicott and Mr. Henry Mills of Buffalo, the 

 discoverers of one of the above species. The efforts of these 

 gentlemen were equally unsuccessful, their opinion being well 

 expressed in Prof. Leidy's words, " In my mind there can be no 

 question as to the tendrils being part of the structure of the 

 statoblast, and their parasitic nature would never have occurred 

 to me." " The tendrils are homogeneous extensions of the inner 

 capsule of the statoblast and I see no trace of the appearance to 

 which you refer in Carter's figure 2." A paragraph from the 

 letter of Prof. Kellicott makes a further point. These processes 

 " are not found on the statoblasts of any other species in the 

 Niagara River ; I have examined hundreds of the statoblasts of 

 Carterella tubisperma, and have not found one without said tube. 

 I brought some of these, having wintered in the river, to my 

 room last May ; after a few days, there was sponge growth ; so 

 this form if a parasite did not destroy the life, etc." 



The second point made by Mr. Carter was that the species 

 marked G. tuhisj^erma from Buffalo, was identical, as shown by its 

 spiculation, with one marked Heteroraeyenia repens from Lehigh 

 Gap, Pa. That one of these identical species should exhibit the 

 tubular prolongation and accompanying tendrils, while the other 

 did not, was considered presumptive evidence that the former was 

 affected in some abnormal way. To this Mr. Potts answered, that 

 while there was unquestionably much similarity in shape of the 

 birotulate spicules of the two sponges, covering the " seed bodies " 

 in the ordinary fashion as a second or outer coat, the Lehigh Gap 

 species alone exhibited the second class of long birotulates, inter- 

 spersed with the others, which had induced him to place it in the 

 genus Heteromeyenia. For this reason he believed the species 

 were not identical, and this argument fails. 



In continuation he reasoned that it should not be considered a 

 matter of surprise that the statospheres of some genei-a pertaining 

 to the family of fresh-water sponges, should present tentative 

 features of this character. In a paper published so long ago as 

 1859, Mr. Carter called attention to the resemblance in appearance 

 and function between the statoblasts of the Polyzoa and the 

 so-called " seed bodies " of Spongilla. The parallelism is rendered 

 more complete when we observe that in those forms of Polyzoa 

 possessing a comparatively rigid octocyst, the statoblasts are 

 circular or lenticular with smooth margins. Some of these are 

 no doubt washed out from the tubular body from time to time 

 during the winter, to extend the species to other places ; while 

 enough are retained b}^ it to renew the growth in the original 

 locality. On the other hand, where the body mass is simply 

 gelatinous, as in Pectinatella, Cristatella, etc., decaying away and 




462 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



releasing the statoblasts on the first approach of winter, these are 

 provided Avith either a single row or a more complicated series of 

 marginal tentacular hooks, by wliich they become matted together, 

 entangled with roots, stems, etc., or held to rough places on planks 

 or stones. 



The same relation to the pei-manency of their skeleton structure 

 we find existing amongst these genera and species of fresh-water 

 sponges. The statosplieres of nearly all species are provided 

 with some arrangement for protection and retention. These vary 

 greatly in kind and degree, inversely according to the protection 

 afforded them by the surrounding skeleton. Perhaps the lowest 

 in the series in this regard is Meyenia Leidyi. This is a thin 

 encrusting sponge ; the skeleton spiculje stout and firmly matted 

 together ; maintaining the position and form of the mass through- 

 out the year. The statosplieres are formed in the autumn in the 

 lowest parts of the sponge, within special capsules formed by 

 interlacing spiculai. It is hardly possible these should wash away, 

 and accordingly we find no means provided peculiar to themselves 

 for detaining them. Their armor consists of a closely laid series 

 of birotulate spiculse with entire margins, excellent as a shield 

 but hopelessl}^ useless as a means of retention. On the other 

 hand no apparent means of diffusion are provided, and as a con- 

 sequence the species seems to be extremely local ; none having 

 been noticed except in the stream where the first specimen was 

 gathered, and within a few yards of the probable spot. 



Spongilla fragiliH of Leidy,when seen during the summer-time, 

 nearly resembles in form the above-mentioned species ; its skeleton 

 structure, however, is much more fragile and is frequently detached 

 and washed awa}', leaving a uniform series of statoblasts standing 

 side by side, with no special coating of spicules for each, as in 

 most other species, but grouped and held together by a common 

 coating of cellular or granular matter, covered by and imbedding 

 a great number of cylindrical spined spicules. A variety of this 

 is often observed (whether it differs specifically in other respects 

 he could not be certain) in which the statospheres are segregated 

 into groups of four or more, spherically enclosed in a similar 

 coating, thus appearing like one large seed. While the statoblasts 

 of the former arrangement retain their positions during the winter 

 and germinate there in the spring, it may be that this is a character 

 assumed for diftusive propagation. 



In Spongilla lacustris and similar branching sponges, the appar- 

 ently conflicting ends of retention and diffusion are attained in a 

 different way. The " seed " are formed in the interstices of both 

 the sessile and the branching portions. In the former they are 

 retained during the winter, partially by the agency of recurved 

 spines upon the acerates projecting from the seed coat; while the 

 fragile branches soon break off and float their contained stato- 

 spheres to distant parts. 



The massive sessile character of many sponges, repeated through 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 463 



various forms of Spongilla and Meyenia^ partially' protects their 

 statospheres from the accidents of the winter season, and when that 

 protection fails them, the raj'S of the hirotnlate spicules of the 

 latter and the curved acerates of the former, come in play to 

 retain a sufficient number until the time of germination in the 

 spring. 



Three species of American sponges have been grouped under 

 the generic name Heterovieyenia^ characterized by the presence 

 of a second form of birotulate spicules interspersed amongst the 

 more familiar series. These are about double the length of the 

 former and are terminated by long recurved hooks. The frame- 

 work of two of these species is altogether filmy and fugitive ; the 

 statospheres are not held within the interspaces of the skeleton 

 or retained in an}- other waj', and are therefore dependent upon 

 the above hooks for their attachment to proper bases for future 

 growth. 



Completing the series of retentive agencies we find the stato- 

 spheres of the three species of the disputed genus Carterella 

 provided, in addition to their birotulate spicules, with long curling 

 or twisting tendrils, extensions, as we have heard, of the tough 

 chitinous coat. These are required to meet the emergency occa- 

 sioned by the looseness of their skeleton texture, from which the 

 sarcode flesh dying early washes awa}', most of the spicules soon 

 following in the winter floods. The eggs are thus left to the pro- 

 tection of the above tendrils which lap them together, bind them 

 to the remaining spicules or the roots of water weeds or shore 

 plants ; or, assuming the role of the hair the plasterer uses, bind 

 the deposited silt about them and both to the stones, where they 

 await the^ppointed time for a new growth. This function is very 

 clearly shown in the collection in Mr. Potts' possession, and 

 the resemblance in material structure of these tendrils to that of 

 the specialized hooks of the forms of Polyzoa referred to, is very 

 striking. He hopes therefore, that as both analogy and observed 

 facts seem to indicate the correctness of his position, Mr. Carter 

 will be willing to accept the compliment intended and which is so 

 well deserved. 



December 1.3. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberqer, in the chair. 

 Twenty -three persons present. 

 The death of Ami Boue, a correspondent, was announced. 



Piloholns crystallinns. — Mr. Thomas Meehan remarked that 

 this small fungus had proved this season to be an expensive 

 annoyance to florists engaged in winter forcing flowers. Rose- 



31 




464 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



growers especiall}' had found it to interfere seriously with their 

 profits. The injury was caused b}^ the projection of the sporangia 

 which covered the flowers and leaves of the roses as if profusely 

 dusted with black pepper. Tlie flowex's were almost unsaleable as 

 the first impression was that the black dots were Aphides. 



Mr, J. B. Ellis, of Newfield, N. J., to whom he was indebted for 

 the identification of the species, had informed him that it was 

 somewhat rare in that vicinity. In the greenhouses referred to 

 they were in immense profusion, the conditions of growth being 

 probably more favorable. Mr. Meehan described the growth of 

 the plant and the behavior of the asci in the generation and expul- 

 sion of the sporangia, which corroborated the facts detailed in 

 the memoir of Eugene Coemans, published in 18.59 in the Bulletin 

 of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Brussels. M. Coemans 

 found the plant on half-dried cow-droppings, in August, and in 

 these greenhouse cases it was also growing in half-i'otten cow- 

 manure used for enriching the soil. Mr. Ellis reports that it is 

 sometimes found on other manures, and so may be less rare than 

 supposed. The projection of the sporangia has been noted by 

 European observers, and originated Fore's name Pilobolus, literally 

 the hat- or cap-thrower. The sporangia appear as small black 

 caps on the top of the cr3^stal-like asci, and are expelled with great 

 force. By careful measurements they were found to be thrown 

 when the direction was perpendicular, to a height of four feet. 

 Coemans does not seem satisfied that the exact process has been 

 made clear by which this remarkable projection is eflfected. It 

 has been supposed that carbonic acid gas is generated, which, 

 distending the cysts, causes them at length to burst at the thinnest 

 part, which is the apex, and the sporangia are then blown out by 

 the gas, as would be a cork from a bottle of champagne. Again 

 Coemans finds a double membrane to the asci, and believes that 

 by the agency of light the inner membrane contracts in a different 

 manner to the outer, and that the projection is the result of this 

 peculiar contraction. Mr. Meehan observed that the sporangia 

 were expelled from the interior of the asci before they were finally 

 discharged, and that they were always projected in a direct line 

 from the centre, which would hardly be the case if a mere explo- 

 sion of gas directed the movement. One large rose-grower had 

 found, that sprinkling the surface of the earth under the rose 

 plants with about the eighth of an inch of dry earth, effectually 

 allayed the projectile annoyance. 



December 20. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Twenty-five persons present. 



The deaths of Edw. Taylor and Dr. Isaac I. Haj^es, members, 

 were announced. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 465 



The Committee, appointed Nov. 29tb, to prepare an expression 

 of the Academy's appreciation of Dr. Ruschenberger's services 

 to the society, presented the following report which, together with 

 the resolutions proposed, was unanimously adopted : — 



To the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia : 



Tour Committee, appointed November 29th, 1881, to prepare 

 and report at a future meeting, an expression of the Academj^'s 

 appreciation of the services of Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger, who 

 declines a re-election to the office of President, respectfully 

 reports : 



Dr. W. S, W. Ruschenberger was elected a member of the 

 Academy of I^atural Sciences of Philadelphia, May, 1832, and 

 became its President, December, 1869, succeeding Dr. Isaac Hays. 

 He has been re-elected at each succeeding annual election, hence 

 he has occupied this position for an unbroken period of twelve 

 years, which, with one exception, is the longest term of service of 

 any President of the Academy. 



When the project for the erection of a new building was first 

 proposed, Dr. Ruschenberger manifested so much interest therein, 

 that when on the 14th of November, 1865, a committee was 

 appointed, " to devise methods for advancing the prosperity and. 

 efficiency of the Academy hy the erection of a building of a size 

 suitable to contain the collections," he was by unanimous consent 

 chosen its Chairman. He was likewise Chairman of the Committee 

 of Fortv, appointed December 26th, 1865, for the purpose of 

 obtaining the funds necessary for the erection of a new building, . 

 and also was, and still is. Chairman of the Board of Trustees of 

 the Building Fund, organized January 11th, 1867. 



From the inception of the enterprise to its consummation in the 

 occupancy of the new building by the Academy in 18*76, Dr. 

 Ruschenberger constantly gave to it his best energies, and to him. 

 more than to any other man the Academy owes the commodious 

 building which it now occupies. 



There were times when many members of the Committee 

 doubted and even despaired of the completion of their service, 

 but in the darkest hours Dr. Ruschenberger never faltered either 

 in faith or works, but with his quiet persistent force, pushed for- 

 ward the enterprise, and sustained the courage of his associates. 

 His untiring interest in the welfare of the Academy, led him 




466 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



personally to supervise the contracts for building, and to inspect 

 the progress of the work almost daily. He was thus able to save 

 thousands of dollars to the Trustees, and to see the present build- 

 ing completed at a cost greatly within the original estimate. 

 Those onl}- who were associated with him in this the great achieve- 

 ment of his life, can rightly value the courage, patience, devotion, 

 indomitable perseverance and ceaseless activity displayed by him 

 throughout the entire period. 



As a presiding officer, both at the meetings of the Academy 

 and in the Council, his extreme punctuality, dignity of manner, 

 unfailing courtesy and accurate acquaintance with parliamentary 

 usage leading to prompt decisions, which seldom or never failed 

 to command support, have increased in no small degree the debt 

 of gratitude due him by the institution which he has served so 

 faithfully and well. 



Of his services to the scientific world this is not the time nor 

 the occasion to speak in detail, but suffice it to say, they are such 

 as have been long and widely recognized. 



In view of the foregoing recital of facts, we deem it everj^ way 

 fitting that the Academy should suitably express and place upon 

 record, its grateful sense of the long and faithful services of its 

 retiring President, and we accordingly propose the following 

 resolutions for its adoption : 



Resolved., That the thanks of this Academy be, and they are 

 hereby tendered to Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger for the eminent 

 services he has rendered both before and since he has held its 

 honored position of President. 



Resolved^ That this report, and these resolutions be entered in 

 full upon the minutes, and published in the Proceedings, and that 

 a copy thereof suitably engrossed, attested by the Vice-Presidents 

 and Secretaries of the Academy be presented to him. 



Isaac C. Martindale, 

 John H. Redfield, 

 S. Raymond Roberts, 

 Philadelphia, Dec. 20th, 1881. Committee. 



Varying Influence of Heat on Flotver-buds and Leaf-buds. — 

 Mr. Thomas Meehan referred to specimens of Cratsegus^ sent by 

 Mr. Case, of Indiana, on which the sender remarked that the buds 

 were larger through the winter on alternate years — and that the 

 plants flowered freely in the seasons corresponding with those 

 following the large buds. Mr. Meehan said, that though it must 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 467 



be within the knowledge of most observers that on the recur- 

 rence of spring, flower-buds were much larger than leaf-buds in 

 the same species, no use had been made of this fact in physiolog- 

 ical teaching so far as he knew. At the fall of the leaf, as any 

 one might see in the peach, cherry, apple, pear, maple, willows, 

 poplars, alders and numerous others, the flower-buds could scarcely, 

 if at all, be discerned from leaf-buds ; but b}- spring the flower- 

 buds had increased to double their autumn size, while the leaf-buds 

 remained exactl}^ the same. Whenever the thermometer was in 

 ever so slight a degree above the freezing point, the flower-bud 

 increased in size during the winter. The leaf-bud required a 

 higher temperature to excite it. This difference in excitability 

 ought to be of value in explaining some biological points. 



December 2t. 

 The President, Dr. Ruschenberger, in the chair. 

 Thirty-six persons present. 



The death of Henry Morris, a member, was announced. 

 The following was ordered to be published : — 




468 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



ON A F(ETAL KANGAROO AND ITS MEMBRANES. 

 BY HENRY C. CHAPMAN, M.D. 



Since the publication, nearly fifty years ago, of Prof. Owen's 

 invaluable paper ^ " On the Generation of the Marsupial Animals," 

 in which the fcetal Kangaroo and membranes were first described, 

 no further contribution has been made to our knowledge of this 

 very important subject. Indeed some naturalists at the present 

 day seem indisposed to accept Prof. Owen's statement that there 

 is no connection in the Kangaroo between the foetal membrane 

 and the uterus, or, in other words, that no placenta is developed ; 

 and that, therefore, the division of the mammalia into non-placental 

 and placental is not a valid one. Even though the present 

 communication should not contain anything particularl}^ new, I 

 trust, however, that it will not be received without interest, if for 

 no other reason than that it comfirms essentially Prof. Owen's 

 descriptions. 



One would have naturally supposed that, during the past half 

 century, among all the Kangaroos killed in Australia and opened 

 in various zoological gardens, at least one fatal Kangaroo 

 would have been found. As a matter of fact, however, this does 

 not appear to have been the case, or, at least, if such was found, 

 no record was made of it. Impressed with this fact, I never 

 failed to examine the generative apparatus in the female Kangaroos 

 wbich died from time to time in the Philadelphia Zoological 

 Garden, with the hope that I might obtain an embryo. In 

 September, 1879, I was successful, finding the specimen which 

 forms the subject of the present communication, and to which I 

 incidentally alluded in a previous communication to the Academy.^ 



The female Kangaroo, in which I found the embr^^o, was a fine 

 example of the Maci^opus giganteus, and had taken the male about 

 fourteen days before its death, which was caused by injuries 

 inflicted upon itself, due to a fright incident to the boxing the animal 

 for shipment. The embryo, PL XX, was, therefore, not more than 

 fourteen days old. On opening the uterus of the left side, which was 

 considerably swollen, the embryo Kangaroo was seen through the 



1 Philos. Transact., 1834. 



'^ Placenta of the Elephant, Journal of Acad., vol. viii, p. 5. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 469 



transparent cliorion. The chorion, which was thickened in places, 

 insinuated itself between folds, into which the lining membrane 

 of the uterus was thrown. The chorion was, however, entirely free 

 from villi or villous processes of any kind, and was perfectly 

 separable in its entire extent from the uterine surface. Indeed 

 it was readily turned out of the uterus intact. On opening the 

 chorion, the embr3'0 Kangaroo was seen inclosed in a very delicate 

 amnion, which was easily lacerated. What at once struck me, on 

 opening the chorion, was the large size of the umbilical vesicle 

 and the undeveloped condition of the allantois, which, though 

 small, was undoubtedly present, consisting of a pear-shaped 

 vesicle or diverticulum from the posterior part of the intestine. 

 The umbilical vesicle adhered to the chorion by that part of its 

 surface most remote from the umbilicus. The line of demarkation 

 between chorion and umbilical vesicle being indicated by a circular 

 blood-vessel. When in the fresh condition, the umbilical vesicle 

 was seen to be highly vascular. The blood-vessels that ramified 

 over its surface consisted of two veins and an artery. The veins 

 began as one vessel from the under surface of the liver, which 

 diverged at the umbilicus and united again on the vimbilical 

 vesicle as a terminal or marginal vein, i. e., the circular vein just 

 referred to, and which indicated the line of contact of the umbilical 

 vesicle with the chorion. The third vessel was an artery, and 

 through the mesenteric could be traced to the aorta. These 

 vessels evidently correspond to the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelHiie 

 veins and arteries of other vertebrate embr^^os as seen, for 

 example, in the embryo chick. The disposition of the umbilical 

 vesicle, with reference to the chorion (its large size and vascularity), 

 reminded me also very much of the rabbit or rodent type of 

 development. While, as we have just seen, the umbilical vesicle 

 was in contact with the chorion, the rudimentary allantois, on the 

 contrar}^ hung freely by its pedicle or urachus in the space 

 between the amnion, the stem of the umbilical vesicle, and the 

 chorion. 



When the allantois was first examined, there could be 

 distinctly seen three very fine vessels, two of which appeared to 

 come from the aorta and corresponded therefore to the umbilical 

 or hypogastric arteries of the placental mammals, while the 

 remaining vessel I considered to represent the umbilical vein of 

 the same. The small size of the allantois and the rudimentary 




470 PROCEEDINGS OF TUE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



condition of its blood-vessels taken in connection with the length 

 of the embryo and the short time that the latter remains in tlie 

 uterus, makes it impossible for me to think that in the Kangaroo 

 a placenta is ever developed. I vise the word placenta in the 

 sense ordinarily accepted, meaning a structure which consists of 

 the interlacing of the allantoic blood vessels with those of the 

 decidua serotina of the uterus, that is, of that part of the hyper- 

 trophied mucous membrane of the uterus in contact with the 

 ovum. Further, that while the umbilical vessel is fused through 

 part of this surface with the chorion, the chorion is only in con- 

 tact with the inner surface of the uterus, not adhering to it in 

 an}' way. The disposition of these membranes in the Kangaroo 

 embryo is therefore difterent from the so-called placenta of 

 certain Sharks, which consists in the interlacing of the omphalo- 

 mesenteric blood-vessels with those of the uterus. This structure 

 in the Sharks, though called a placenta, is not homologous with 

 the mammalian placenta, this consisting, as we have seen, of the 

 allantoic vessels and those of the uterus. The Kangaroo cannot 

 be said, therefore, to have a placenta in either sense in which that 

 word is used. The small size of the embryo Kangaroo at birth, 

 would lead me to suppose that it drew its nourishment from the 

 umbilical vesicle like the reptile or bird, rather than from the 

 uterine walls, as in the mammal. If the uterus does contribute 

 to the nourishment of the foital Kangaroo, such nutriment must 

 osmose through the omphalo-mesenteric vessels. The contact of 

 the chorion with the uterus, however, is of a very adventitous 

 character. The embryo Kangaroo itself measured six-eighths 

 of an inch in length from the mouth to the root of the tail. 

 The latter was one-eighth of an inch long. The mouth was 

 open, and the tongue, though large, was not protruded. The 

 palpebral folds were not developed. There was no sign of an 

 auricle. Four branchial clefts could be distinguished. The 

 anterior extremities were well developed, but the digits had not 

 appeared. The posterior extremities, were represented onlj' 

 by small buds, not very apparent except with a lens. In- 

 dications of the ribs were distinctly visible. The membranous 

 spinal cord could be seen ; the elements of the vertebrae being as 

 yet ununited. A penis was visible just in front of the anus. On 

 the supposition that the theory of evolution is true, one would 

 naturally expect to find forms intermediate in their structure and 




\ 



1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 4tl 



development between the reptiles and birds on the one hand and 

 the placental mammalia on the other. As is well known, in the 

 structure of its skeleton and generative apparatus, the Ornitho- 

 rynchus resembles ver}' closel}^ the reptile and bird, while, as we 

 have just seen, the foetal membranes of the Kangaroo recall the 

 corresponding parts in the reptilian-bird type and foreshadow 

 those of the placental mammal. If the parts in question have 

 been truthfully described and correctly interpreted as partly 

 bridging over the gap between the non-placental and placental 

 vertebrates, the}' supply exactl}'^ what the theory of evolution 

 demands, and fui-nish, therefore, one more proof of the truth of 

 that doctrine. 




472 PROCEEDINCS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



The following reports were read and referred to the Publication 

 Committee : 



REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT 



For the Year ending November 30, 1881. 



It is a pleasure to be able to repeat a statement made last year, 

 that the Academy- " remains free from debt," a very important 

 statement, because the progress of the societ^'^ is largely contin- 

 gent on the condition of its financial affairs and the stability of its 

 pecuniary resources. 



The report of the Treasurer, William C. Henszey, whose prudent 

 zeal in the discharge of the duties of his office entitles him to the 

 full measure of our thanks, shows that the finances of the society 

 are in a sound condition, and that the current receipts for the year 

 somewhat exceed the expenditures. 



The receipts from all sources amount to $6959.20 



And the total disbursements to 6952.16 



Leaving a balance of 7.04 



Even under this unusually favorable condition, observance of 

 close economy in expenditures is still essential, as it ever should 

 be under all circumstances, to keep the treasury always in a state 

 to moet the current demands against it. They may possibly be 

 greater on account of necessary repairs in the coming than in the 

 past year. The exterior wood-work of the building may require 

 painting in the course of the summer. 



The treasurer's statements show that the Publication Fund, the 

 Thomas B. Wilson Fund, the Elizabeth Phyle Stott Fund, the 

 Isaac Barton Fund, the Charlotte M. Eckfeldt Fund, the Joshua 

 T. Jeanes Fund, the Jessup Fund, the Life Membership Fund and 

 the Maintenance Fund are in a satisfactory condition. 



More than a thousand dollars of the income of the I. Y. 

 Williamson Library Fund have been necessarily diverted from 

 library purposes to the payment of expenses to secure part of the 

 property from which the income is derived. Now it is confidently 

 believed that the whole of the receipts of the fund, which have 

 been somewhat increased, may be appropriated to the purchase 

 of books in accordance with the intention of its liberal and 

 benevolent founder. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 413 



The luanufactnre of the Proceedings and Journal of the Aead- 

 emj; has cost $1307.92. The return to the treasury on account 

 of their sale is $1124.09. The works received into the library for 

 them, in exchange, from 29T societies and 42 periodicals, at home 

 and abroad, far exceed in value the difference between the cost of 

 manufacture and the amount of money received on account of 

 the sale of the Academy's publications. 



The hope, entertained at the close of the last year, that the 

 Maintenance Fund might be considerably increased by this time, 

 has been disappointed. Tlie circumstances which led to the effort 

 to raise this fund have not changed. The enterprise has not yet 

 been demonstrated to be hopeless, and until it is, should not be 

 abandoned. 



The aggregate of semi-annual contributions for the year reported 

 by the treasurer, $1936, suggests that it is desirable to augment 

 the number of members. 



Fees for admission to the museum amount to $421.30, which is 

 less than a janitor's salar^^ 



Five students have been aided from the Jessup Fund in the 

 course of the year. At this time two 3'oung men are its benefici- 

 aries. The advantages of this fund are in demand. Many are 

 indebted to it for a start on the course which led them to become 

 naturalists and efficient investigators. An increase in the number 

 of such scholarships is desirable. Every one who ma}^ give a 

 sufficient sum to yield $250 annually, to aid in the support of one 

 student, will contribute substantially to the advancement of 

 knowledge, and at the same time erect for himself a continuously 

 speaking memorial, more enduring, and conspicuous than can be 

 formed of monumental marble. 



To encourage the study of natural histoiy among young persons, 

 the Agassiz Association of Natural History", a juvenile socisty, 

 was granted, Dec. 14, 1880, the use of the library room on alter- 

 nate Wednesday afternoons, for its stated meetings. 



The use of the library room was given to a board of examiners 

 of Harvard Universit}', from June 30 to July 2, inclusive, for the 

 examination of candidates for admission into that institution. 



Permission to visit the museum, given to the teachers and a 

 limited number of pupils of the public schools in 1819, has been 

 extended to them through the year 1882. 



The Legislature of the State did not accept the proposition of 




474 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



the Academy to assume the custody of the collections of the 

 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania and display them 

 freely to the public, without an}^ cost whatever to the treasury 

 of the State. The proposition was approved in the Senate but 

 not in the House. The result is not fortunate. It is believed 

 that those collections cannot be held anywhere in the State 

 more profitably to the public generally than in the Academy; 

 because, located under the same roof with the collections of the 

 First Geological Survey, with other extensive American and 

 European collections, and also with a full and appropriate library 

 of reference, they could be readily consulted and studied apart, 

 or in connection comparatively with those of the First Geological 

 Survey, as well as with other collections. No other place of 

 deposit promises superior or equal facilities for their study. 



The Curators report that the contents of the museum have been 

 carefully inspected and that they are in good condition. Additions 

 to the museum during the year not recorded in other reports are 

 mentioned. 



As long as the increase of the museum depends upon volun- 

 tary gifts alone, there is no reason to expect that it will ever be 

 complete in any department, or as a whole represent the natural 

 history of the day. Explorations of new regions and localities 

 are continuously revealing objects, previously unknown, very few 

 of which find their way into our cabinets. 



To fill gaps which exist in many if not all the departments and 

 make the museum perfect, money to purchase desiderata, when 

 opportunity occurs, is necessary. A museum fund, yielding from 

 twelve to fifteen hundred dollars a year, would enable the curators, 

 in the course of a reasonably short time, to fill gaps in various 

 departments and procure specimens of new objects whenever they 

 may be discovered, and to furnish new materials for study and 

 investigation. An endowment of this kind would do for the 

 museum what the I. V. Williamson Library Fund has done for the 

 library, which is regarded to be now the best and most extensive, 

 though not yet complete, library of natural history of the United 

 States. 



The rate of growth of the library during the past j'^ear has been 

 somewhat lessened, owing to a temporary diminution of the income 

 ai^plicable to it, as already mentioned. According to the report 

 of the Librarian, 2719 additions to it from all sources have been 




1881.J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 475 



made. Reckoning ten pamphlets to the volume, he estimates that 

 the librar\' now contains 29,485 volumes, exclusive of duplicates. 



Many of the works consist almost entirel}^ of dry technical 

 descriptions of objects, and are, in one respect at least, analogous 

 to dictionaries or encyclopaedias, which are referred to, but not 

 read from beginning to end. As a rule, circulating libraries do 

 not lend their dictionaries, nor recent numbers of periodicals and 

 serials. 



After ample experience and mature consideration of the subject 

 in all its relations, the Academj^ determined that its library, like 

 that of the British Museum, should be maintained as a library of 

 reference only, under a conviction that the interests of students 

 and of the members far and near would be, on the whole, promoted 

 by this policy. A large proportion of the books have been con- 

 tributed on condition that they shall not be loaned for use outside 

 of the building on any pretense whatever. Even if the Academy 

 were now disposed to change it to a circulating library, it cannot 

 annul the conditions upon which most of the books were given 

 and accepted, without breach of trust. It is not likely that a 

 majoi'ity of those entitled to A'ote here will ever consent that the 

 Academy shall merit the just odium of such action merely for the 

 sake of loaning its books. 



The Recording Secretary reports that twenty papers from 

 twelve authors have been accepted for publication in the Pro- 

 ceedings ; and that the fourth or concluding part of the eighth 

 quarto volume of the Journal has been printed, and distributed to 

 subscribers and to those on the exchange list. 



The volume of Proceedings of 1881 contains about 500 pages. 

 The third volume of a " Manual of Conchology," b}^ George W. 

 Try on, Jr., illustrated by 628 figures given in 87 plates, with 310 

 octavo pages of text, has been issued from the Academy by the 

 author ; and the Rev. Dr. Henry C. McCook has had published 

 by J. B. Lippincott Sc Co., an octavo volume, fully illustrated, on 

 " The Honey Ants of the Garden of the gods, and the Occident 

 Ants of the American Plains," much of which he had presented 

 at stated meetings of the Academ}- in the course of the yeav. 



Several papers from the Conchological, Botanical, Mineral- 

 ogical and Geological Sections have been accepted for publication 

 in the Proceedings of the Academy. The Entomological Section 




476 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



has printed on the i^remises and issued about 230 octavo pages of 

 its Proceedings and Transactions. 



These publications constitute reliable evidence of the activity 

 of tlie Society, as well as a measure of the extent of work done in 

 connection with it b}^ its members. 



The average number of persons present at the stated meetings 

 of the year is 30.44 ; the least number present at any meeting was 

 7, and the greatest, 363. 



The scientific activit}^ of the society may be estimated more 

 accurately by what it publishes than by the numbers present at 

 its stated meetings alone ; provided its publication fund be equal 

 to the demands made upon it. Original investigations are always 

 pursued in the privacy of the stud^' or laboratory. Discoveries, 

 when made, are announced at a stated meeting, which is the avenue 

 to publication, either in form of verbal communication or written 

 statement carefully prepared for the Journal or the Proceedings. 

 Such papers are read by title only: if read in full, technical or 

 precise systematic descriptions of new species or genera would 

 allure few not specially interested in their subjects, and a majority 

 would find little or no pleasure in listening to them. 



The progress of the society cannot be fairl}^ inferred by com- 

 paring the average number present at stated meetings through a 

 series of years. Careful examination of the minutes from 1850 to 

 1881, including both years, shows that the average number 

 present at tlie stated meetings of eacli year does not increase 

 regularly from year to jear, but varies. The average attendance 

 in 1850 was 12.28 — little more than the average number present 

 at the stated meetings of the Mineralogical and Geological 

 Sections for 1881, namely, 11 ; for 1855,19.26; for 1860,35.55; 

 for 1865, 18.28 ; for 1870, 22.34, Nor is there a uniform correspond- 

 ence between the number of pages of Proceedings issued and the 

 average number present at the stated meetings. A tabular state- 

 ment of the average numbers in attendance at the stated meetings, 

 the greatest and least number present at meetings in the 3'ear, 

 the number of members and correspondents elected, and the 

 number of pages of Proceedings published in the year, is herowith 

 presented : 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



477 



An estimate of the activity of the Academy from the numbers 

 in attendance at its meetings alone, should include tliose in 

 attendance at the meetings of the several sections. To specialize 

 is the order of the da}'. All the great meetings of men interested 

 in the advancement of the different departments of knowledge are 

 splitting into sections and special societies. Many who habitually 

 attend the meetings of the sections are seldom present at the 

 stated meetings of the Academy, but their presence and work in 

 tlie sections make part of the common or general activity of the 

 society. 



The Department of Recent Conchology now contains 139,592 

 specimens, mounted and ai'ranged in 39,501 traj^s. The species 

 are named throughout, and all, with rare exceptions, are accessible 

 to students. The space allotted to this branch of natural histor}' 

 in the museum is insufficient. Lack of room for the Mineral- 

 ogical and Geological Cabinets is also manifest. 



Extension and completion of the building is very desirable. At 

 this time, the building fund amounts to $3689.20. Attention of 

 members and friends of the Academy is respectfully invited to 

 this important matter. The finished part of the building is not 

 now large enough to properly arrange all the materials in it in the 

 most convenient manner for their study, and is certainly not 

 sufficiently extensive to display them to the public in a way to 




478 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



render them attractive and instructive to visitors in general. The 

 present rate of growth of the museum and librar}^ and the 

 already crowded condition of the cases, suggest that ways and 

 means should be devised without delay to augment the building 

 fund. It is obvious that a vast museum and a great library 

 connected with it demand space for their accommodation commen- 

 surate with their extent ; and that a structure to embrace such 

 space cannot be erected in a day, at any time, nor without a large 

 sum. To raise sufficient money to complete the edifice designed 

 for the purposes of the Academy will be found an arduous and 

 slowly progressive enterprise. Therefore no date will be too early 

 for its commencement; its success will not be too soon. And for 

 this the Academy must, as heretofore, rely upon -the generosity 

 of the intelligent and public-spirited who believe with us that the 

 cultivation of the natural sciences is in many ways advantageous 

 to the public ; and that the project of completing the building and 

 expanding the museum of the Academy, till it shall be in every 

 sense a perfect museum of natural history, is worthy of favorable 

 consideration and prompt encouragement. 



Such an establishment would be an addition to the positive 

 attractions of Philadelphia, and thus become indirectly of com- 

 mercial value to the city ; especially if admission to it during a 

 part of every secular day were without fee, and monitors were 

 always at hand ready to explain to visitors the nature of the 

 objects displayed. It would be among the best of charities, for it 

 would help all to knowledge who are disposed to help themselves. 

 A leisurely promenade through a complete and well-arranged 

 museum of natural history, where questions of curious and 

 inquisitive visitors might be answered on the spot, would be almost 

 in itself an education in this connection. 



To hope for such a museum here is extravagant only in view of 

 the gi'eat expense. The chief obstacle in the wav of its realization 

 is the cost, which would possibly far exceed that of a free public 

 library of general literature, or a free public gallery of fine paint- 

 ings. A museum of natural objects might not be as alluring to 

 the masses as fictions told in prose or verse, or in different- 

 colored pigments deftly mingled and displayed, all exciting 

 admiration, and more likely to arouse romantic, even sensuous 

 notions than to convey a ray of truth of any sort to the mind of 

 the uncultured observer. But the influence of the museum in 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 479 



teaching untrained minds to think rightly and appreciate the 

 beauties of truth, everywhere manifest in the works of the Creator, 

 is likely to be as great, if not greater, and cei'tainly not less 

 salutary. 



A complete standard museum, free to the public, is surely 

 desirable in a locality which contains more than a million of 

 inhabitants within a radius of ten or fifteen miles from this centre. 

 The city contains man}' private special collections, and several 

 small, good museums connected with colleges and schools, which 

 are accessible to the few, but there is no great museum of natural 

 history absolutely free to all. Without lessening the importance 

 and value of private or collegiate collections, and without inter- 

 fering with students in their use of it, the museum of the Academy, 

 which has been formed at the cost of many 3'ears' labor and much 

 mone}', can be made in a short time complete and entirel}'^ free to 

 the public, provided that sufficient means for the purpose are 

 supplied. Herein lies the difficulty of the problem to be solved 

 .before starting the enterprise suggested. 



A newspaper has recently said that among our opulent citizens 

 are those who might, without inconvenience, give a million to 

 found a free public library. Assuming the conjecture to be true 

 in part, at least, it might not be entirely in vain perhaps, to invite 

 those ver}^ wealthy and intelligent persons to consider the claims 

 of the Academy on their bounty. 



The annual reports of the several sections or departments of the 

 Academy show that their condition is satisfactory. The}^ are: 



1. The Biological and Microscopical Section, founded in 1858 bj^ 

 the absorption or junction of the Biological Societj', then recently 

 organized, and by adding to it, in July, 1868, the then newly 

 formed Microscopical Societ3^ 



2. The Conchological Section, founded December 26, 1866. 



3. The Entomological Section, founded November 1875, chiefly 

 by annexation of the American Entomological Society. 



4. The Botanical Section, founded in June, 1876. 



5. The Mineralogical and Geological Section, founded April 24, 

 1877, under the title of Mineralogical Section. Its present title 

 was authorized November, 1879. 



The Biological and Microscopical Section reports that Professor 

 J. Gibbons Hunt delivered seven lectures on histological subjects 

 before the Section during the year, and that its annual exhibition 



32 




480 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



was held on the evenings of November 16 and 17. It was largely 

 attended by members of the Academy and their friends, and was 

 satisfactory to all those who took part in it. 



The sections afford greater facilities to specialists in their pur- 

 suits than they could obtain in newly organized and independent 

 societies. They are in no sense detrimental to the interests of the 

 Academ}'. They have the immediate care of those departments 

 of the museum which are appropriate to them ; and in this connec- 

 tion their conservators relieve the Curators of considerable labor. 

 There is no apparent reason why the formation of sections should 

 not be encouraged. They tend to unite those engaged in separate 

 but closely allied studies, advantageously to them as well as to 

 scientific progress, and to centralize their interest in the general 

 welfare of the society. A desire of membership in a section is 

 often the only inducement to seek membership in the Academy. 



The by-law, enacted May, 1876, which provides for the estab- 

 lishment of Professorships, had remained almost inoperative until 

 December, 1880. In its partial observance it promises to be satis- 

 factorily efficient, at least for the present. 



The enactment was founded on an idea that " there are many men 

 eminently qualified in all respects to engage in original research 

 whose scientific work is greatly restricted because almost all their 

 time is necessarily spent in gaining a livelihood, who, like the 

 Davys, Faradays, Huxleys, and Tyndalls of the Roj^al Institution, 

 would gladly accept a moderate support of assured continuance, 

 and in return for it devote all their energies to scientific investi- 

 gations and teaching." 



Objection to the scheme, though commendable in itself, was that 

 "to appoint professors before providing a laboratory in which they 

 may pursue their investigations, or a lecture-room for the accom- 

 modation of those who would listen to their teachings ; or means 

 for their permanent and entire support, would be merely to bestow 

 complimentary titles, without advancing the interests of original 

 research in any manner or degree. Gentlemen elected to profes- 

 sorships without income would not find in the title of professor 

 alone the means of living. Such title would not relieve them from 

 the necessity of giving their time and labor to some exacting voca- 

 tion for daily bread, nor afford them more leisure than they may 

 possess without it. Those devoted to original investigation who 

 are pecuniarily independent of secular employment do not need 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



the assistance which hoped-for endowments are designed to give. 

 As the library and museum are accessible to all for the purpose 

 of study, the}" are in condition to pursue their scientific labors 

 without acquiring the title of professor from the Academj^" 



If the enactment be founded as stated, the objection to the 

 appointment of professors before making provision of facilities 

 suitable to the work imposed upon them, and of sufficient means 

 for their permanent support, has no less force now than when first 

 made five years ago. 



It has been considered expedient to inaugurate the scheme of 

 professorships before providing the wa3'S and means for their 

 permanent support, in the hope that the effort may meet with sub- 

 stantantial encouragement. 



Dr. J. Gribbons Hunt was duly elected Professor of Histol- 

 ogy and Microscopic Technology, April 17, 187Y, without compen- 

 sation or authority to incur expense. 



At a stated meeting of the Council, December 2Y, 1880, Mr. 

 Angelo Heilprin was duly elected Professor of Invertebrate 

 Paleontology ; and January 24, 1881, Mr. Henry Carvill Lewis 

 was appointed Professor of Mineralogy. 



Knowing that the society has no means to defray any expense 

 incidental to the professorships, and that the long wished-for 

 endowments to support them have not yet been made, these gentle- 

 men have generouslj'^ volunteered to contribute their time and 

 valuable services towards promoting the interests of the Academy 

 and scientific advancement without pecuniary compensation. 



The Committee on Instruction and Lectures made arrange- 

 ments necessary to enable the professors to inaugurate the work of 

 instruction. Professor Heilprin delivered a lecture introductory 

 to his course on Invertebrate Palaeontology before the Academy, 

 March 6 ; and at the stated meeting of the 15th, Professor Lewis 

 delivered an introductory lecture to his course on Mineralogy. 



The average attendance at Professor Heilprin's course of twenty- 

 six lectures was twenty-five, and at Professor Lewis' course of 

 fourteen lectures, thirty-five. 



The Rev. Dr. Henry C. McCook, Chairman of the Committee 

 on Instruction and Lectures, said, in his report. May 31, 1881: 

 " The committee feels pleasure in recognizing the valuable services 

 rendered by the professors to the classes of last winter — service 

 that has been none the less valuable and is all the more entitled 




482 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



to hearty acknowledgment because Aolimtarily given. It has 

 not been possible to give them a pecuniary acknowledgment of 

 their services worthy of any notice in a report. The hope is 

 expressed, that the liberality and justice of those interested in thi& 

 department of the Academy's work, will enable the committee to 

 make a more favorable report in this respect upon the operations 

 of next winter.'" 



The committee has announced that early in January, 1882, 

 Professor Lewis will begin a course of 25 lectures on Mineralogy, 

 and Professor Heilprin a course of from 25 to 30 lectures on 

 Invertebrate PalaBontology. 



The institution of these lectures is based on a suiDposition, a 

 conjecture that there are many persons in the community who 

 desire to be systematically taught such branches as are not included 

 in academic or college courses, or if included, not generally 

 accessible to those who are interested only in subjects proposed 

 to be taught here, and that those persons are in number sufficient 

 to warrant and sustain the enterprise. Experience will be required 

 to determine whether or not the conjecture is well-founded, 

 because the nature and character of the instruction given here is 

 not likely to be generally known or appreciated in the community 

 in a trial of less than two or three years. If, at the end of a third 

 course, it should be found that the number attracted to these 

 courses is not large enough to compensate the professors, it is 

 not reasonable to suppose that they will be willing to continue 

 their labors, which are certainly very considei'able, without ade- 

 quate substantial remuneration. When it becomes manifest that 

 the demand for systematic and practical instruction is not suffi- 

 cient to warrant or encourage work of this kind, it will be suspended. 

 Then the professors will be free to devote their time to original 

 investigations exclusively, provided that means of livelihood are 

 supplied by endowment or otherwise. 



On the other hand, if the admission fees are sufficient to main- 

 tain the lectures and lecturers, other S3^stematic courses of instruc- 

 tion will pi'obably be undertaken and continued as long as they 

 are supported, and thus the Academy, which has been heretofore 

 mainly a repertory of means and resources for the use of those 

 who seek to instruct themselves, may also become efficient in 



' The total amount of fees for admission <o the lectures was $151, and 

 of thjB incidental expenses, $52.27 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 483 



teaching all branches of natural history, both b}' lectures, appro- 

 priatel3' illustrated by diagrams and by specimens from the museum 

 as well as by personal, individuallaboratory work under the super- 

 vision of the professors. 



Whatever the result of the experiment in teaching may be, the 

 appliances necessary to study possessed by the Academy, will be 

 always accessible to those who may be gratified to have an 

 opportunity to teach themselves — to be self-taught. 



Although defective and deficient in some respects, there is no 

 conclusive reason to suppose that the Academy is not now 

 realizing the hope of its founders, as well and as surely as in any 

 previous year of its history. That defects will be corrected and 

 deficiencies supplied in the course of time may be confidently 

 conjectured, because the needs of students of natural science, 

 which is daily becoming moi-e fully appreciated than ever before 

 in the world, are better understood. A great library and extensive 

 collections of natural objects, appropriately classified and labeled, 

 are necessary to enable the student to become a master of natural 

 history, and qualify him to be a successful investigator. The cost 

 of such necessary appliances and facilities of study is so great 

 that no one student is able to purchase them for himself alone. 

 He can enjoy their use, therefore, only in common with others, in 

 a society like the Academy, which has acquired them through the 

 generosity of many individuals in the course of years. Every 

 specimen, every book,ever3- dollar given here is a contribution to 

 the repertory of means to facilitate the labors of present and 

 future students of natural science. And every contributor is 

 regarded as a benefactor to them directly, and indirectly as a 

 patron of scientific progress, in greater or less degree. 



Since the Academy was in its embryo state, seventy years ago, 

 public opinion of the character and influence of its pursuits has 

 greatl}^ changed. Then they interested comparatively few, and 

 those few were supposed to be almost, if not entirely, free from the 

 influence of belief in religious principles of any kind. Many pious 

 but prejudiced persons imagined that a naturalist is necessarily 

 an infldel. Those very good, ignorant people then, like multitudes 

 of the same class of the present day, limited their study of animal 

 creation almost exclusively to man and his actions, depicted in 

 endless variety by prose-writers and poets. Assurance that there 

 is equal pleasure and greater mental satisfaction in the study of 




484 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



organisms inferior to man, fell then as now, generally speaking, 

 upon incredulous ears. They do not believe them worthy of 

 serious attention. 



The nameless author of " La Spectacle de la Nature," a work 

 which has the censor's approval, dated Paris, March 20, lt32, 

 speaking of insects, says : " If the Deity did not think it unworthy 

 of Himself to create them, is it beneath us to consider them ? 

 * * * the minutest things in nature were api)ointed to some 

 peculiar end and purpose, and the Deit}' is as conspicuous in the 

 structure of the fly's paw as He is in the bright globe of the sun 

 himself" 



No one pretends now to impugn the truth of this ancient state- 

 ment ! 



But the study of the natural sciences is no longer regarded 

 among Christian theologians and laymen of intelligence to be 

 antagonistic to the existence and growth of religious sentiment. 

 Statesmen recognize in it economic value. Governments re- 

 quire naturalists to accompan}^ all geographical explorations. 

 United States and State Geologist, Botanist, Entomologist, etc., 

 are familiar titles. Periodical publications devoted to the natural 

 sciences are numerous. To this kind of evidence of the increasing 

 popularity of scientific pursuits may be added the mulitiplication 

 of societies for their promotion in different parts of the country. 

 All of them have been formed since the Academy was founded. 

 They are all welcome co-laborers in the vast field of work, and are 

 not regarded in an}^ sense as rivals or competitors. They serve 

 to create a spirit of wholesome emulation. 



It is pleasant to suppose that the Academy has had a salutary 

 influence on the progress of the natural sciences to the degree of 

 popular favor they now possess, and that its general conduct 

 heretofore is approved. Its ways have been and are unpretentious, 

 unobtrusive. Membership in itself is not significant of any degree 

 of scientific acquirement, but only of friendliness to scientific 

 pursuits. Candidates to be inscribed on the list of its members 

 are not required to possess special qualifications. Those members 

 who avail themselves of the opportunity and appliances aflbrded 

 to study, gain knowledge and receive due credit for any good 

 work they may do. The reputation they may thus acquire is 

 reflected upon the Academy. 



On its list of members are very many who manifest their 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OP PHILADELPHIA. 485 



interest in the society's welfare only by contributing to its funds 

 or collections ; man}^ who are active and successful workers ; many 

 who are distinguished by their attainments, and some who have 

 reached great eminence ; and it is reasonably supposable that 

 recruits are coming forward to fill vacancies as they occur in each 

 of these different kinds or classes of members. It has many 

 numerous and valuable collections in eveiy department, some of 

 them unsurpassed, which are continuously increasing ; and an 

 appropriate library, the best of the kind in the country, for the 

 steady growth of which permanent provision has been made. It 

 owns the building it occupies, with land enough on which to 

 expand it to twice its present dimensions. It is free from debt, 

 and its current income has been in the past year equal to its 

 economical expenditure. 



The condition of the society, attained at the end of seventy 

 years' existence, without any pecuniary aid whatever from the 

 government of the State, justifies the policy which has guided the 

 management of its afiairs. There is nothing in its past history to 

 suggest that it should depart now from the general conservative 

 policy which has characterized almost every step of its progress 

 since 1812. Observance of this policy has brought it to its present 

 condition, in which there is nothing to warrant foreboding of 

 decadence, but much on which to found hope of continuous 

 progress. This condition is satisfactory, because at this time the 

 income is enough to meet all unavoidable expenses. Suggested 

 improvements in several directions are very desirable and 

 earnestly hoped for ; but they are of such a character that they 

 can wait until money is supplied for their realization without 

 absolutely arresting the progress of the institution. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



W. S. W. RUSCHENBERGER. 



REPORT OF THE RECORDING SECRETARY. 



The Recording Secretary respectfully' reports that during the 

 3^ear ending Nov. 30, 1881, fifteen members and six correspondents 

 have been elected. 



Resignations of membership have been received from Messrs. 

 J. Ward Atwood, H. Dumont Wagner, E. Egglesfield Griffith, 

 Henry Pemberton, Jr., and Wm. F. Sellers. 




486 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



The records of the death of eleven members and six correspon- 

 dents have been published in the Proceedings under dates of 

 announcement, so that it is unnecessar}' to repeat the names here. 



Twenty papers have been accepted for publication. Eighteen 

 of these have been printed, and the remaining two will be included 

 in the current volume of Proceedings. The communications have 

 been received from the following : Angelo Heilprin, (> ; Rev. Dr. 

 Henry C. McCook, 3 ; S. B. Buckley, 3 ; Henry C. Chapman, 2 ; 

 Harrison Allen, Rafael Arango, John H. Ryder, R. E. C. Stearns. 

 W. X. Lockington, and Messrs. Wachsmuth and Springer, each 

 one. 



Sixty -four pages of the volume of Proceedings for 1880, and 

 four hundred and thirty of the volume for 1881, have been 

 printed during the year. The fourth or concluding number of 

 Vol. VIII of the Journal was issued and distributed to subscribers 

 and correspondents in March. 



The iuterest of the weekly meetings has depended mainh' on 

 the verbal communications made from time to time by Messrs. 

 McCook, Wood, Leidy, Ryder, Meehan, Chapman, Potts, Allen, 

 Horn, Foote, Bassett, Kite, Heilprin, Lewis, Rand, Haines, 

 Koenig, Anders and Pike. The greater number of these have 

 been reported by the authors, and duly published in the Pro- 

 ceedings. 



Mr. Edw. S. Whelen having resigned from the Council and the 

 Finance Committee, the vacancies were filled by the electiori. on 

 the 22d of January, of Chas. P. Perot to the former and Isaac C. 

 Martindale to the latter position. 



A vacancy in the Council, caused by the resignation of Dr. H. 

 C. Chapman, was filled, June 5, by the election of Dr. Geo. A. 

 Koenig. 



Article 3, Chap. XV, of the By-Laws was amended October 25 

 by adding after the word "election" the words "and resignation." 



All of which is respectfully submitted. 



Edw. J. XoLAN, 



Recording Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE CORRESPONDIXG SECRETARY. 



The Corresponding Secretary reports that the business of his 

 office has not diftered materially from that of preceding j-ears, the 

 correspondence having been of the usual routine character. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 481 



During the past year our membership has been increased by the 

 addition of six Correspondents, who have been promptly notified 

 of their election, and from nearly all of whom acceptances have 

 been received. 



To those who have favored the Academy with donations to the 

 Museum, prompt acknowledgments have been sent ; these, to the 

 number of one hundred and sixty-one, represent for the most part 

 not single specimens, but masses of valuable material, a record of 

 which will appear in the Curators' report. 



The letters received are in great part either notices of the 

 transmission of the publications of Corresponding Societies, or 

 acknowledgments of the reception of our own by them. 



The summary is as follows : 



Letters of transmission, 49 



Letters of acknowledgment, 58 



Responses from Correspondents, 6 



• Miscellaneous, 13 



representing eight}' Scientific Societies, Public Libraries, Insti- 

 tutions of original research, and other bodies organized for the 

 increase and diffusion of knowledge. The number of Corres- 

 ponding Societies shows an annual increase. 



During the year notices of the death of several Correspondents 

 have been received, and published in the current Proceedings. 

 Respectfullj' submitted. 



George H. Horn, M. D., 



Corresponding Secretary. 



REPORT OF THE LIBRARIAN. 



The Librarian respectfully reports that during the year ending 

 November 30, 1881, there have been 2119 additions made to the 

 library of the Academy. As heretofore, the greater part of these 

 have been the publications of scientific societies, received in ex- 

 change for those of the Academy. The increase has been composed 

 of 396 volumes, 2273 pamphlets and separate parts of periodicals 

 and 50 maps and plates. 




488 



PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP 



[1881. 



The sources from which these were derived are as follows 



Societies, 1075 



Editors, 697 



I. V. Williamson Fund, . . .278 



Authors, 252 



Jos. Jeanes, 94 



F. V. Hayden, 33 



Wilson Fund, 29 



Department of the Interior, . 22 



Geological Survey of Sweden, . 22 



Geological Survey of Bohemia, 16 



Robert Bridges, 14 



Geol. Survey of Pennsylvania, . 12 



Fish Com'rs of Massachusetts, 12 



Geological Survey of India, . 9 



Department of Agriculture, . 9 



Smithsonian Institution, . . 9 



Isaac Lea, 9 



War Department, 7 



Fish Commissioners of Maine, 7 



Treasury Department, ... 6 



Geological Survey of Belgium, 5 



Minister of Works, Mexico, . 5 

 Minister of Public Works, France, 5 

 Dept. of Mines, New South Wales, 5 



East Indian Government, . . 5 



Fish Commission of Michigan, 4 



Geol. Survey of New Zealand. 4 



Engineer Department, U. S. A., 4 



Major Huguet Latour, ... 4 



University of New York, . . 4 



Fish Commission of Iowa, . . 3 



Norwegian Government, 



Wm. S. Vaux 



Rev. Dr. Syle, 



Trustees of British Museum, 

 Geological Survey of Canada, 



H. C. Lewis, 



C. F. Parker 



Geol. Survey of New Jersey, 

 Mrs. S. S. Haldeman, . . . 



B. L. Hewit, 



H. C. Chapman, .... 



3 

 3 

 3 

 3 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 2 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 G. W. Tryon, Jr., 1 



1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 

 1 



University of Minnesota, 



Yale College, 



U. S. Commissioner of Fislieries, 

 Fish Com'r of Maryland, . . 

 Wesleyan University, . . . 

 Philadelphia Library Co., . . 

 University of California, . . 

 Dept. Mines. Nova Scotia, . . 

 Geological Survey of Italy, 

 Mercantile Library, St. Louis, 

 Mercantile Library. San Francisco 

 N. J. State Agricultural Station, 

 Pennsylvania Museum, . • . 

 Rutger's Scientific School, . . 

 Library Com'rs, Nova Scotia, 



Astor Library, 1 



American Museum of Nat. Hist. , 1 

 Second Presbyterian Church, . 1 



In addition, 8 volumes were procured by exchange of dupli- 

 cates. The additions were distributed to the vai-ious departments 

 of the library as follows : — 



Journals, 2021 



Geology 236 



General Natural History, 



Botany, 



Conchology, 



Anatomy and Physiology, 



Ichthyology, 



Bibliography, . . . . 



Entomology, 



Mineralogy, 



Anthropology, . . . . 

 Physical Science, . . . 



64 



64 



47 



40 



4 



21 



21 



20 



18 



11 



Education, 



Voyages and Travels, . . . 



Agriculture, 



Helminthology, . • . . • 



Ornithology, 



Chemistry, 



Medicine, 



Biography, 



Mammalogy, 



Miscellaneous, (War, Fi- 

 nance, Literature, etc.,) . 



11 

 11 

 10 

 9 

 9 

 9 

 6 

 5 

 2 



45 



Estimating that it requires an average of 10 pamphlets or parts 

 of periodicals to make a volume, the number of volumes now in 

 the library is about 29,485. The failure of some of the ground- 

 rents constituting the I. Y. Williamson Fund and the consequent 

 necessity of obtaining possession of the property involved, has 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 489 



decreased the number of works obtained from that source, those 

 received having been mainly continuations of periodicals and 

 serial works previously subscribed for. It is hoped, however, 

 that the embarrassment is merely temporarj^, as the income from 

 the Fund will be hereafter materially increased by the rents of 

 the properties thus acquired. 



The Academy is indebted to Mr. Jos, Jeanes for a gift of 

 $500.00 for the purchase of botanical, and $239.80 for geological 

 works actually required by the workers in these departments. 

 The books most urgently asked for, have been ordered, and those 

 which have been received are noted in the accompanying list of 

 additions to the library. 



The revision of the catalogue of American journals has been 

 completed. Applications have been made for deficiencies in every 

 case where it was at all probable that the publishers could be 

 reached, and proposals to exchange have been made to a few 

 societies not yet in correspondence with us. The latter are mainly 

 in South America, and judging by the experience of the past, the 

 answers, which we have not yet had time to receive, will be favor- 

 able. 



Edw. J. Nolan, 



Librarian. 



REPORT OF THE CURATORS. 



The Curators present the following report of the Museum pre- 

 pared by Mr. Chas. F. Parker, in special charge of the same. 



I would respectfully report, that during the year all the collec- 

 tions of the Museum have been carefully inspected and cared for, 

 and that they are in good condition. 



The specimens received during the year have been labeled and 

 placed in their proper positions. 



The contributions in the various departments during the year, 

 excepting those reported on by some of the special sections, 

 follows, and will be found included in the " List of additions to the 

 Museum." 



The Haldeman collection, noted in the list, has been partially 

 arranged in forty drawers and nirje horizontal cases. A, large 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



number of specimens had to be packed away for want of room, 

 which, it is hoped, will soon be provided for their display. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Chairman of Curators. 



REPORT OF THE BIOLOGICAL AND MICROSCOPICAL 



SECTION. 



Fifteen stated meetings were held during the j^ear. 



The following new members and associates were elected : 



Members.— Kohevt S. Davis, E. P. Borden, J. E. Mitchell, Dr. 

 Crozier Griffiths, Dr. George A. Rex, Edward P. Starr, D. S. 

 Newhall. 



Associates.— \N . T. Seal, Dr. J. R. McClurg, J. H. Fenton. 



The death of but one member was noticed upon the minutes of 

 the section, that of Thomas W. Starr. 



Besides the usual material presented at the meetings, the 

 following special subjects were of more than ordinary interest: — 



Dec. 6, 1880. — The anatomy of the Sponges, by Mr. Ryder. 



Dec. 20,1880. — An exhibition with a new Projecting Lantern, 

 by Queen & Co. 



Jan. 3, 1881. — Lecture upon Living Units and the Growth of 

 Vegetable and Animal Matter, from the Original Cells or 

 Bioplasts, by Dr. J. G. Hunt. 



Jan. It, 1881. — Lecture upon Mosses, by Dr. Hunt. 



Feb. T, 1881. — Lecture upon the subject, " Some Problems 

 Within and Some that are Beyond Microscopical Observation," by 

 Dr. Hunt. 



Feb. 21, 1881. — Extended remarks upon the Anatomy of the 

 Mosses and the best methods of Mounting, by Mr. Jacob Binder. 



March 1,1881. — The Microscopical Mechanism of some parts 

 of the Digestive Organs, by Dr. Hunt. 



March 21, 1881. — Extended remarks by Mr. George Binder 

 upon the Fungi and the best method of mounting them. 



March 21, 1881. — Observations by Mr. J. 0. Schimmell upon 

 the common Red Spider or Mite. 



March 21, 1881. — A new method of bleaching vegetable tissues, 

 by Mr, Jacob Binder. 



April 4,1881. — Lecture by Dr. Hunt upon the Significance of 

 some Customs in Living Things. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 



491 



May 2, 1881. — Lecture by Dr. Hunt upon Some Comparative 

 Illustrations of Breathing Orgaus. 



May 17, 1881. — Observations upon the best methods of pre- 

 paring Crystals of Hippuric Acid. 



June 6, 1881. — Lecture by Dr. Hunt upon Growth in the Skin 

 and in some Trees alike. 



Nov. 16 and 17. — The Annual Exhibition was held, and was 

 attended by a large and interested assembly. 



Dec. 5, 1881. — At the annual election the following gentlemen 

 were elected officers for the ensuing year : 



Director, 



Vice-Director^ 



Corresponding Secretary, 



Conservator^ 



Treasurer, . 



Recorder, 



Committee of Auditors, 



Committee of Curators, 

 Committee on Business, 



Dr. R. S. Kenderdine. 

 Dr. Charles Schaetfer. 

 Dr. L, Ashley Faught. 

 Mr, Charles P. Perot. 

 Dr. Isaac Norris. 

 Dr. Robert J. Hess. 

 Mr. J. C. Wilson, 

 Mr. S. L. Fox, 

 Dr. A. G. Reed. 

 Mr. C. P. Perot, 

 Mr. E. Pennock. 

 Dr. C. Schaeffer, 

 Dr. R. J. Hess, 

 Mr. C. P. Perot, 

 Dr. A. G. Reed, 

 Mr. S. L. Fox. 



Respectfully submitted, 



Robert J. Hess, M. D. 



Becorder. 



REPORT OF THE CONCHOLOGICAL ^CTION. 



The Recorder of the Conchological Section respectfully reports 

 that during 1881, Mr. Rafael Arango, Prof. Angelo Heilprin, Dr. 

 R. E. C. Stearns and Mr. Henry Hemphill have prepared papers, 

 which have been accepted and published in the Proceedings of the 

 Academy. Besides these, verbal communications have been made 




492 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



at various times upon conchologieal subjects, at meetings of the 

 Academy, by Dr. Leidy and Messrs. Heilprin, Ryder and Ford. 



Our Conservator, Mr. Tryon, reports that 



" During the year ending December 1, 1881, forty-four distinct 

 donations of recent shells and mollusks have been received, 

 aggregating 877 species, represented by 3205 specimens. With 

 the assistance of Mr. Charles F. Parker these have all been labeled, 

 mounted and displayed in the Museum. In addition to this work, 

 the rearrangement of the entire collection, in accordance with the 

 latest and best views of classification, which was commenced two 

 years ago, is constantly progressing — the Turbinellida?, Nassidae 

 and MitridsB having been completely re-studied and partly 

 re-labeled. 



' The collection of Unionidae having outgrown the limits orig- 

 inally assigned to it, a new arrangement thereof became necessary, 

 and for this purpose ninety-six drawers were appropriated, at the 

 west end of the Conchologieal gallery. The specimens are now 

 uniforml}- mounted, with new labels, and classified in accordance 

 with the latest edition of Dr. Lea's Synopsis of Naiades. Two 

 reference-catalogues of the family have been prepared, one of 

 which is for the use of strangers desirous of consulting the col- 

 lection. The cabinet of Unionidae contains over six hundred 

 species, represented by several thousand selected specimens, and 

 occupies two hundred and forty feet of surface space. To the 

 above work Mr. Parker has, as usual, devoted much of his time, 

 and with great advantage to the appearance of the specimens. 



" Early in the year an opportunity occurred to secure a fine 

 suite of fossil shells from the older formations of the West — 

 hitherto very imperfectly represented in the Academy's Museum ; 

 the Section obtained these by purchase. 



" Prof. Angelo Heilprin having assumed official charge of the 

 cabinet of invertebrate palaeontology, his annual report will con- 

 tain the summary of donations of fossil shells, heretofore included 

 in this report. 



" Recently, a large and valuable selection of recent shells, all new 

 to the Academy's collection, has been offered to us at a reason- 

 able price, and by the kindness of several friends, a portion of it has 

 already been secured. In this connection we would call attention 

 to the manifest impossibility of maintaining unimpaired the use- 

 fulness to students of our Conchologieal collection by continuing 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 493 



to rel}^ upon occasional donations and exchanges for the supply 

 of newly-discovered species. A museum which does not ever 

 reflect the current state of knowledge misses its highest aim, and 

 may become as valueless for progress as a library composed of 

 books written several generations ago. 



"Authentic or carefully identified specimens of known species 

 are much more necessary to the student than books. Figures and 

 descriptions, however carefully drawn, can only convey to him a 

 portion of the significance of the specimens. Books are, of course, 

 necessary implements of study, but to derive our knowledge of 

 zoological characters from them exclusively is to receive at second 

 hand the impression which natural objects have made upon other 

 minds, a condition which almost precludes safe progress in 

 zoological discovery. Through several wise benefactions, the 

 library of the Academy has become the most important librar3^ of 

 natural science in America, and means have been provided for its 

 continuous growth; but the Museum has always depended upon 

 fitful generosity exclusively ; no intelligent direction has been 

 given to its increase, simply for want of money. In no other 

 department of the Museum do we suffer more for the want of 

 purchasing power than in that of Conchology. Ten j^ears ago our 

 collection had become, by a succession of favorable circumstances, 

 so complete that it was consulted by students as a standard 

 authority. Its reputation still exists, but with each succeeding 

 year it is less deserved, for few of the rich collections constantly 

 being made in regions new to zoological research find their way 

 into our cases. A fund yielding a few hundred dollars per annum 

 would suffice to maintain, perhaps to increase, the value of our 

 Conchological Museum, A gift for this purpose would, it is 

 believed, be a good investment, productive in the best sense. 



The Museum of Recent Conchology now contains 139,592 

 specimens, mounted in 39,501 trays. The species are named 

 throughout, with rare exceptions, and are all accessible to 

 students." 



There have been no changes made in the By-Laws of the Section, 

 and the officers of last year have been re-elected. 

 Respectfully submitted by 



S. Raymond Roberts, 



Iieco7'der. 




494 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [18»1. 



REPORT OF THE BOTANICAL SECTION. 



The Yiee-Director has much pleasure in reporting the continued 

 progress of the Section during the past year. 

 The offlcers-elect for 1882 are : 



Director^ . . . Dr. W. S. W. Ruschenberger. 

 Vice-Director^ . . Thomas Meehan. 

 Recorder^ . . , F. Lainson Scribner. 

 Corresponding Secretary 



and Treasurer, . Isaac C. Martindale. 

 Conservator^ . . John H. Redfield. 

 Meetings have been held every second Monday in the month, 

 except in July and August, with a slightly increased attendance 

 over the previous 3'ear. Manj' valuable verbal and written com- 

 munications have been made to the meetings ; some of the more 

 important have been afterwards published in the Proceedings of 

 the Academy. 



All the valuable work done by the Section this year has been 

 without drawing, except to a trifling extent, on the funds of the 

 Academy. 



The membership has increased slightly, and the Treasurer 

 reports a balance on hand of $34.92. 



It is but right that the Academy should bear in mind that its 

 Botanical collection is one of the finest in the United States. 

 Numbers of excellent botanists stand ready to suppl}"^ deficiencies, 

 if they can only be furnished with lists of what are needed. A 

 very little financial aid, to supply what the voluntary labor of the 

 zealous members of the Section would be overtasked to do, would 

 place it in a condition to do great honor to the Academy. Though 

 in the continued absence of this financial aid, the progress is much 

 slower than is desirable, the marked advance, as evidenced by the 

 Conservator's report, is so very gratifying that the Section has 

 adopted it as part of its report to the Academy. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



Thomas Meehan, 



Vice-Director. 



The Conservator reports a constant and encouraging growth of 

 the botanical collections of the Academy during the past year. 

 The usual detailed list of the accessions is appended. Among the 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 495 



most important of these, we may refer to the large and nearlj'^ 

 complete series of sections of North American woods, collected 

 imder the direction of Prof. Chas. S. Sargent, Commissioner of 

 the Forestry Department of the U. S. Census of 1880, and by him 

 presented to the AcademJ^ Mr. Canby has contributed during 

 the 3'ear 52Y species of plants, mostl}^ European, but with many 

 rare species from South Africa and Australia. To Mr. Martindale 

 we are indebted for the 5th, 6th and Tth Centuries of Ellis' N. 

 American Fungi, containing a series of carefully determined 

 specimens illustrating that most difficult department of Crypto- 

 gams. From the Cambridge Herbarium we have received a small 

 but interesting collection of plants from Afghanistan, collected 

 by Dr. J. E. T. Aitcheson during the advance of the British army 

 into that country in 1879. 



The Conservator has continued to direct his main attention to 

 the work of bringing into more orderl}^ arrangement the somewhat 

 chaotic mass of material in the Herbarium, believing that in this 

 way he can best facilitate the labors of those who may come after 

 him. During the year provisional alphabetical lists of species 

 have been prepared for a considerable portion of the general 

 Herbarium, to which the arrangement of the species in the genus 

 covers has been made to conform. Those who have occasion to 

 consult the Herbarium will appreciate the great saving of time 

 which this arrangement will eftect. It would be gratifying if this 

 labor could be accompanied by a thorough study and working 

 over of the material represented, but with the limited time at the 

 Conservator's disposal, this is absolutely impossible, and will be 

 better performed hereafter when the Academy shall be able to 

 secure the constant services of an experienced botanist. Yet this 

 end has not been altogether neglected, and in the mounting of the 

 N. American Herbarium, which work is still continued, careful 

 revision of names has been kept in view, and if error has not 

 been altogether avoided, it has at least been greatly lessened. 

 The mounting of that portion of the collection covered b}' the 

 issued part of Gray's Synoptical Flora, is now complete, and 

 some little progress has been made in other portions. 



During the year Dr. Eckfeldt has carefully examined and 

 catalogued the lichens of the collection, contributing also 100 



33 




490 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



species which were wantinc;, and Mr. Scribner has continued his 

 labors upon our grasses, which he is critically studying and 

 mounting. 



Mr. Chas. F. Parker, the Academy's Curator-in-charge, has 

 been of the most essential service to the Conservator in carrying 

 out the work of poisoning all new additions, a large proportion of 

 which he has also mounted ; and his contributions to the N. 

 American Herbarium have tilled many gaps, and added choicer 

 specimens of species already represented. 



Respectfully submitted. 



John H. Redpield, 



Cons.ervatoi\ 



REPORT OF THE ENTOMOLOGICAL SECTION. 



The Entomological Section during the j^ear has been enabled 

 to perform an amount of work that is quite gratifying to its 

 members. In this work it has been generously aided by the Amer- 

 ican Entomological Society, which has allowed it a fair share of 

 its own limited income. The cabinets have been remodeled, and 

 several new cases added thereto. Tliese have been paid for by 

 the Society. 



By the increase in cabinet room thus obtained the Section has 

 found space to add to the collection, 175 species, comprising 300 

 specimens or more, of which 60 species entirely new to the collec- 

 tion have already been arranged. A complete rearrangement of all 

 the species is now being made by Mr. Howard Parker. The 

 aforementioned new specimens ai'e such as have been added so far 

 as this rearrangement has progressed, viz., from the Cicindellidje 

 to Anisodactylus of the Carabidse, inclusive. 



During the year the Section held its regular monthly meetings, 

 excepting in August and September, tiie usual vacation period. 

 At these meetings communications, both written and verbal were 

 made. These have been published in the Proceedings of the 

 Section, of which 28 pages have thus far appeared. In addition 

 to these pages of entomological matter the American Entomolog- 

 ical' Society has published 212 pages of its Transactions; these 

 make a total of 240 pages of printed matter during the year. 




1881.] 



NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA, 



49^ 



At the meeting of the Section held December 12, the following 

 officers were elected for the year 1882 : 



Director^ . . . . J. L. Le Conte, M. D. 

 Vice-Director, . ... George H. Horn, M. D. 

 Treasurer, . . . . E. T. Cresson, M. D. 

 Recorder, . . . . J. H. Ridings. 

 Conservator, .... Charles "Wilt. 

 Respectfull}' submitted. 



J. H. Ridings, 

 Recorder. 



REPORT OF THE MIXERALOGICAL SECTION. 



The Director of the Mineralogical and Geological Section would 

 respectfull}^ report that regular meetings have been held monthly 

 during the year, except in July and August. At these meetings 

 the attendance of members and visitors has been larger than in 

 any former 3 ear, averaging eleven. Xew discoveries have been 

 from time to time announced, and many items of interest discussed. 

 For the details of this work he would refer to the appended reports 

 of the Professors of Invertebrate Palaeontology and of Mineralogv, 

 and to the papers herewith transmitted, and which will be pub- 

 lished in the Proceedings for 1882. Specimens received through 

 the section during the 3'ear, though not as large in number as in 

 some prior 3'ears, have made a valuable addition to the cabinet. 

 A special meeting was held in March, in conjunction with the 

 meeting of the Academy', at which the Professor of Mineralogy 

 delivered his inaugural address. Two hundred members and 

 visitors were present, 



The success of this insured the unanimous approval b}' the 

 Section of the proposition to combine the meetings of the Sections 

 with those of the Academ}'. 



The following officers have been elected for the ensuing year: 

 Director, .... Theo. D. Rand. 

 Vice-Director, . . . W. W. Jefferis. 

 Secretary, .... Chas. Schaeffer, M. D. 

 Treasurer, .... John Ford. 

 Conservator, . . . . H. Carvill Lewis. 

 Respectfully submitted. 



Theo. D. Rand, 



Director. 




498 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ACADEMY OP [1881. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OF INVERTEBRATE 

 PALEONTOLOGY. 



The Professor of Invertebrate Palaeontology respectfully reports, 

 that during the year 1881, a course of 26 lectures on Invertebx'ate 

 Palaeontology was delivered in the class room of the Academy 

 (commencing on March 8, and terminating June 4), which course 

 was attended by an average of about 25 listeners, largely made up 

 of teachers from some of the more prominent institutions of 

 learning in the city. 



The work of classifying and arranging the old collections in the 

 Palajontological Department of the Academy has made some pro- 

 gress during the year. The determination of specimens embraces : 



123 trays of (so-called) Cretaceous fossUs from the Tejon 

 group of California, originally described by W. M. 

 Gabb for the Whitney Survey, and largely composed 

 of type specimens; these last have been specially 

 indicated. 



312 trays of Tertiar}^ (Miocene and Pliocene) fossils, 

 largely composed of T. A. Conrad's t^^pes. 



435 



The specimens contained in 263 of these trays have been care- 

 fully mounted and labeled by Mr. Chas. F. Parker, Curator-in- 

 charge; to the remaining 172 trays, only provisional labels have 

 been attached. 



The Pala^ontological collections of the Academy have thus far 

 suffered greatly from want of room for their proper exposition ; 

 something toward remedying the evil, by the construction of 

 additional drawers, has been done in the course of the year, but 

 much more still remains to be accomplished. It is especially 

 desirable that a suitable cabinet, or other fixture, be obtained for 

 the exhibition of specimens typically representing the various 

 geological formations, which would not only greatly facilitate the 

 work of the Professor in teaching, but would very materially aid 

 the students, special as well as general, in their studies. 



All the additions to the Pateontological collection, made in the 

 course of the year, have been labeled and mounted by Mr. Chas. 

 F. Parker, Curator. 




1881. J NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 499 



The Department of the Library pertaining to Geology and 

 Palaeontology has received many valuable accessions during the 

 3'ear, for a considerable portion of which the Academy is indebted 

 to the liberality of Mr. Joseph Jeanes. 



Angelo Heilprin, 

 Professo7' of Invertebrate Palaeontology. 



REPORT OF THE PROFESSOR OP MINERALOGY FOR 



1881. 



In submitting to j'ou this, m}' first annual report upon the 

 condition and needs of the department under my charge, allow me 

 to express my appreciation of the assistance which has been 

 rendered through the active co-operation of your committee 

 on instruction, in the discharge of mj^ duties as Professor of 

 Mineralog3". 



Under their auspices a course of practical instruction in Miner- 

 alogy- was given during the months of March and April. It 

 consisted of thirteen lectures, and was attended by a class of about 

 35, being as large in number as could convenientl}"^ be accommo- 

 dated in the room set apart for the purpose. The course opened 

 with a review of the history of Mineralogy and of mineralogical 

 classification. Succeeding lectures consisted of a detailed descrip- 

 tion of the characters of minerals and an exposition of the methods 

 used in mineralogical determination, with experiments. Speci- 

 mens from the valuable collection of the Academy were used in 

 illustration. Practical work was successfully carried on by nearly 

 all the class. It consisted of the determination of the characters 

 of minerals, the application of chemical tests to detect their 

 constituents, and the performance of the various operations of 

 blowpipe analysis. This was supplemented by a day of practical 

 work in the field. 



The summer months were emplo3^ed in discovering and tracing 

 the line across Pennsylvania of the great terminal moraine of the 

 North American glacier; the work having been accomplished 

 with the assistance of the Second Geological Survey of Pennsyl- 

 vania, and of which a report will shortly be published. 



The mineral collection of the Academy has been increased 

 during the past year by valuable additions. The donations made 




500 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



by Mr. Jkment and Mr. Vaux are especially worthy of note. A 

 number of undetermined specimens and specimens wrongly labeled 

 have been examined and properl}' placed in the collection. The 

 labels have been written and the specimens arranged as heretofore 

 by Mr. Chas. F. Parker, in his usual careful manner. It is hoped 

 in time to form special collections, illustrating the various external 

 characters of the minerals. 



A very valuable acquisition has been the manuscript catalogue 

 of the rock collection made by the First Geological Survey of 

 Penns3'lvania. This catalogue, consisting of 300 pages, is an exact 

 copy of the original catalogue made by Prof. H. D. Rogers, 

 which is now in the possession of the State Agricultural College 

 at Bellefonte. It was copied under the direction of Prof. J. P. 

 Lesley, who, at mj' request, has now deposited it with the 

 Academy. This catalogue transforms a worthless collection of 

 rocks into a most valuable one. The collection, which was given 

 by Prof. Rogers to the Franklin Institute, and which is now 

 boxed in the cellar of the Academj-, awaiting arrangement, con- 

 sists of 5725 specimens, illustrating the lithology of the greater 

 portion of the State. The specimens are all numbered, and can 

 be so arranged as to correspond with the pages in Prof. Rogers 

 Final Geological Report, and thus to prove of great service to 

 students. It is to be regretted that the limited space now at the 

 command of the Academy precludes any satisfactory display of 

 this collection. 



In accordance with the by-law requesting the Professor to state 

 the needs of tlie depaitment under his charge, the following 

 suggestions are here offered : 



It is very desirable that a single row of drawers should be 

 placed beneath the mineral cases. Specimens of less value than 

 those in the cases, those valuable only for locality, and minerals 

 for the use of students would properly be placed in such drawers. 

 The systematic arrangement and good appearance of the collec- 

 tion would thus be permanently established. It is also recom- 

 mended that some provision be made for the storage of duplicates. 

 A series of wooden trays sliding in a rough frame would be the 

 most compact and suitable arrangement, and could conveniently 

 accommodate not only the duplicate specimens now scattered, but 

 also others that may hereafter be received. 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 501' 



In the department of instruction much is needed. Before any- 

 systematic instruction in crystallography can be given, the 

 Academ}^ should have a set of the Siegen glase crystal models for 

 instruction, and a collection of wooden models for practice. For 

 advanced mineralogical instruction it is also necessary to have 

 certain instruments, among which a reflecting goniometer, a 

 polariscope, and a lithological microscope are the most important. 

 A good balance is also desirable tor accurate specific gravity deter- 

 minations. These instruments would be used both for instruction 

 to advanced students, and, under proper restrictions, for original 

 investigations. 



Henry Carvill Lewis, 



Pj'ofessor of Mineralogy. 




502 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



SUMMARY OF THE REPORT OF WM. C. HENSZEY, 



Treasurer, for the year ending Nov. 30, 1881. 



Dr. 



To Balance from last account f 911 21 



" Initiation fees 120 00 



" Contributions (semi-annual contributions) 1936 45 



" Life Memberships 100 00 



" Voluntary Contributions from Life Members 



" Admissions to Museum 



" Sale of Guide to Museum 



" *' Duplicate Books 



" Donation from Entomological Society 



" W. L. Mactier, for lectures, 1881 and 1882 



" Freight returned 



" Tublication Committee 1124 09 



" " " Balance of Publication amount 



in their hands 



" Fees, Lectures on Palaeontology 



" " " " Mineralogy 



" Interest from Mortgage Investment, Joshua T. Jeanes' 



Legacy 1000 00 



" Wilson Fund. Toward Salary Librarian^.. 300 00 



" Publication Fund. Interest on Investments 320 00 



" Barton Fund. " " " 240 00 



" Life Member. Fund. " " " 60 00 



" Maintenance Fund. " " " 30 00 



" Interest on Deposits 220 28 



$7870 87 



Cr. 



Salaries, Janitors, etc ^3394 97 



Freight 65 94 



Repairs 338 93 



Insurance 30 00 



Coal 615 45 



Gas 91 72 



Mounting Parrot 1 50 



Stationery and Postage Stamps 121 14 



Alcohol 42 75 



Newspaper Reports 60 00 



Water-rents. « 26 15 



Trays 50 50 



Binding 50 00 



Printing and Paper 1291 68 



Plates and Engravings 



Lecture Expenses 



Miscellaneous 



A. Heilprin. One-half Receipts, Committee of Instruction. 



H. C. Lewis. " " " " " 



Life Membership, transferred to Life Membership Fund. 



— 6952 16 



Balance, General Account $918 71 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 503 



LIFE MEMBERSHIP FUND. (For Maintenance.) 



Balance per last Statement $1000 00 



Life Membership transferred to this account 100 00 



Interest on Investments 60 00 



Phila. and Erie Railroad Bonds paid ott 2000 00 



^3160 GO 



Transferred to General Account $60 00 



Investment in Bond and Mortsrage, at five per cent, int 2000 00 



2060 00 



To Balance for Investment $1100 00 



BARTON FUND. (For Printing and Illustrating Publications.) 



Balance per last Statement $240 00 



Interest 240 00 



$480 ( 

 Transferred to General Account 240 00 



Balance $240 00 



JESSUP FUND. (For Support of Students.) 



Balance, last Statement $521 67 



Interest on Investments 560 00 



$1081 67 

 Disbursed 500 00 



Balance $581 67 



MAINTENANCE FUND. 



Balance per last Statement $526 35 



Interest on Investments 30 00 



Phila. and Erie Railroad Bond paid off 1000 00 



Stuart Wood. Subscription 100 00 



$1656 35 



Transferred to General Account $30 00 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage, at five per cent. int.... 1000 00 



1030 00 



To Balance for Investment $626 35 



PUBLICATION FUND. 



Balance, last Statement • $40C 25 



Income from Investments 320 00 



Phila. and Erie Railroad Bond paid off 1000 00 



$1728 25 

 Transferred to General Account 320 00 



Balance $1408 25 



Of this Balance, $1300.00 is for Investment. 




504 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ACADEMY OF [1881. 



MRS. STOTT FUND. (For Publications.) 



Spring Garden Railroad Bonds paid oif. $2000 00 



This amount, is for Investment. 



I. V. WILLIAMSON LIBRARY FUND. 



Balance, last Statement $209 55 



Rents Collected 444 75 



Ground-rents Collected 1179 86 



$1834 16 



For Books $753 00 



Expenses, Sale of Four Properties for Arrearages of 



Ground-rents 331 00 



Taxes on Four Properties sold 341 31 



Repairs to Properties 191 10 



Taxes 22 40 



McFadden's Interest iti 1451 Mt. Holly St 50 00 



Collecting 103 89 



1792 70 



Balance $41 46 



THOMAS B. WILSON LIBRARY FUND. 



For Books $456 90 



Transferred to General Account toward Salary of Librarian 300 00 



Barker Bros. & Co. Collecting U. S. Bonds 4 50 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage, at five per cent, interest 4500 00 



$5261 40 



Balance per last Statement $108 02 



Income from Investments 540 00 



U. S. Bonds paid off. 4500 00 



5148 02 



Balance Overdrawn $113 38 



ECKFELDT FUND. 



Amount for Investment as per last Statement $2466 86 



Investment in Bond and Mortgage, at five per cent, interest 1500 00 



Balance for Investment $966 86 



BOOK ACCOUNT. (Donations from Jos. Jeanes, Esq.) 



Jos. Jeanes. Donations $739 80 



Less Cash paid for Books 214 00 



Balance |525 80 



INSTRUCTION FUND. 



Chas. Schaffer. Donation $25 00 



Thos. Meehan. " 10 00 



$35 00 




1881.] NATURAL SCIENCES OF PHILADELPHIA. 505 



The election of Officers for 1882 was held, with the following 

 result : — 



President, . . . Joseph Leidy, M. D. 



Vice-Presidents, . . Wm. S. Vaux, 



Thomas Meehan. 



Recording Secretary, . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Correspoy\ding Secretary , George H. Horn, M. D. 



Treasurer, . . . Wm. C. Hensze_y. 



Librarian, . . . Edward J. Nolan, M. D. 



Curators, . . . Joseph Leidy, M. D., 



Wm. S. Yaux, 

 Chas. F. Parker, 

 R. S. Kenderdine, M. D. 



Councillors, to serve three Charles P. Perot, 

 years, J. H. Redfield, 



S. Fisher Corlies, 



W. S. W, Ruschenberger, M.D. 



Finance Committee, . Isaac C. Martindale, 



Clarence S. Bement, 

 Aubrey H. Smith, 

 S. Fisher Corlies, 

 George Y. Shoemaker. 



ELECTIONS DURING 1881. 



MEMBERS. 



January 35. — Joseph J. Knox, Geo. A. Rex, M. D. 

 February ^:2.— Robt. P. Field. 

 April 26. — Henry Skinner, Jesse S. Walton. 

 May 5i.— John G. Lee, M. D., Alexander Biddle, M. D., W. 

 Norton Whitney, M. D. 

 Ju7ie 28. — Jerome Gray. 



July ^5.— John C. Graham, E. C. Hine, M.D. 

 October 25. — W. N. Lockington. 

 November 29.— D. S. Newhall, Edwin P. Starr, W. H. Hamed. 



CORRESPONDENTS. 



February 22. — John Brazier, of Sydney, N. S. W. ; Rafael 

 Arango, of Havana, Cuba ; Chas. Mohr, of Mobile, Ala. 



3Iay 5i.— Thomas T. Bouve, of Boston. 



June 28. — Chas. S. Sargent, of Brookline, Mass. ; M. S. Bebb, 

 of Rockford, 111, 




606 ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM, [1881. 



ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 



December 1^ 1880 to December -?, 1881. 



i/awiffirt^. — Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Hystrix crislala, two Myopo- 

 tamus cot/pus, portion of skin, eyes, tongue and viscera of young Hippopo- 

 tamus; Didelphys derbiana. 



Dr. H. C. Chapman. Stomach of Hippopotamus, stomach and generative organs 

 of Dicotyles. 



Dr. Jos. Leidy. Skeleton o^ Hippopotamus amphihius (young). 



Birds. — Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Rhamphastos toco, Jirotogerys vires- 

 cens, Astiir Novse- Hollandiie, Melopsittacus undulatus, Aix galericulata. Scops 

 asio, Chrysotis coccineifrons, Haliaster Indus, Numida vuUurina. 



J. KiefiF. DendrKca maculosa and D. cserulescens, Montgomery County, Pa. 



Theo. D. Rand. One egg each of swan and ostrich. 



Colin F. Stam. Nest of Trochilus colubris, Chestertown, Md. 



Chas. H. Townsend. Mounted specimen of Numida vulturina. 



Crocodilia, Ophidians and Fishes. — J. C. Martindale. Alligator mississippiensis 

 (young). 



Zoological Society of Philadelphia. Epicrates angulifer. 



U. S. JNational Museum. One hundred and sixteen species of fishes from the 

 Pacific Coast of N. A. 



R. M. Holbrook. Coryphxna punrtulata. 



Articulates. — Mr. Booth. Streptocephalus (sp.) Nevada. 



T. R. Peale. Bopyrus Manhattensis, Red Bank, Monmouth Co., N. J. 



Carlos J. Marsillan. Two species fire-flies, Fyrophorus noclilucus and P.rusticus. 



J. A. Warder. Cnmponotus Pennsylvanicus, Ohio. 



Dr. Edward Palmer. Thirty-two species of diurnal Lepidoptera, Mexico. 



Dr. Jos. Wilson. Cocoons of ^Etias luna, Telea polyphemus, Platysamia cecropia, 

 etc. 



H. F. Bassett. Sixty-two species of Galls. 



G. Howard Parker. Four species of Galls, Phila; 



MoUusks. — Rafael Arango. One species of marine, and sixteen of terrestrial 

 shells of Cuba; four of the latter being types of new species described in 

 the Academy's Proceedings. Ctenopoma nodiferum, Arango (type), Cuba 



Thomas Bland Sixteen species of terrestrial shells from the West Indies; 

 forty-one species of land shells, of which ten are author's types. 



John Brazier. Forty-three specimens of shells, mostly marine, from Australia, 

 New Caledonia, etc. ; twenty-one species of Aus-tralian marine and ter- 

 restrial shells; twenty-two species of Cyprsea and twelve speces of Trivia, 

 mostly Australian; sixty-eight species of Australian marine shells. 



J. J. Brown. Cylindrella mabuja and C. Gruneri, from Gonave, I. Haiti ; Cor- 

 bula Caribxa, d'Orb., from Port-au-Prince, Haiti; Columbella mutabile, from 

 Salt Lake, Matlin's Isl., Bahamas. Unio Canadensis Lea, Lake Ellen, She- 

 boygan Co., Wis. 



Mrs. A. E. Bush. Helix Diabloensis, Cooper, and H. aspersa, MUll., from San 

 Jos6, Cal. 



W. W. Calkins. Conulus JJpsonii, Calkins, Winnebago Co., 111. 



Dr. J. C. Cox. Thirty-eight species of Marine shells, from Port Stephens, 

 New South Wales. 



Dr. W. H. De Camp. Bythinella attenuata. Grand Rapids, Mich. 



John Ford. Twenty-one sections of shells, prepared by him. Very fine suite 

 of Asaphis coccinea. from Elbow Key, Fla ; four species of MoUusca, and a 

 fine section of Turbinella scolymus, remarkable series of Cyprsea annulus. 



The late W. M. Gabb. Seventeen species of land and marine shells collected 

 by him in San Domingo. 




188L] ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. 501 



Dr. W. D. Hartman. Sixteen species of Partula, new to our collection. 



P. R. Hoy. Amnicola lustrica and A. Cincinnatiensis, from deep water, Lake 



Michigan. 

 Mrs. M. A. Haldeman. A collection of fresli-water shells, part of the cabinet 



of the late Prof. Haldeman. 

 A. A. Hinkley. Ten species of marine shells. Cedar Keys, Fla. 

 Joseph .Jeanes. Sixty-four species and varieties of marine shells, collected 



by Henry Hemphill on the coast of California ; eighty-six species and 



varieties of marine, land and fresh-water shells from the West Coast of 



America. 

 F. R. Latchford. Sixty-two species terrestial and fluviatile moUusks, from 



Ontario, Canada; seven species of fresh-water shells from Canada. 

 Isaac Lea. Twenty-five species of marine and terrestrial shells, new to the 



collection. 

 Dr. E. Palmer. Uhio fuscatus, Lea. U. Jayanus, Lea, U. nigrinus. Lea, U. 



Blandingianiis, U. amygdalum and W. Buckleyi, from near Cassina River, Fla. 

 C. F. Parker. Twenty-eight species of marine shells, new to the collection. 

 John A. Ryder. Area pexata. Say, Wood's Holl, Mass. and Cherry Stone 



Inlet, E. Shore of Virginia; Xylotrya fimbriata, Jeffreys, from St. Jerome's 



Creek, St. Mary Co , Md. 

 John H. Redfield. Thirty-one species of marine bivalve and land shells, new 



to the collection. 

 S. R. Roberts. Four specimens of Cypraea, and three other marine species. 

 R. E. C. Stearns. Helix circumcarinata Sterns, Stanislaus Co., Cal. 

 John Jay Smith. Abalone, the animal of Haliotis, eaten by the Californian 



Chinese. 

 Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Eighty-two species of shells, new to the collection. 

 Dr. J. W. Velie. Veronicella Floridana, Bulimits muUiradiatus, from Florida. 

 W. S. Vaux. Fifty species of shells, new to the collection; three species of 



land shells from Tunis, and one from Peru. 

 Joseph Willcox. Unio luteolus, Lam., Rideau Lake, Ontario. 

 F. M. Witter. Amnicola Cincinnatiensis, Anth. ; Unio 3Iississippiensis, U. 



Anodontoides, U. lachrymosus, from Muscatine, Iowa. 

 Fossil Invertebrata. — J. W. Vogdes, U. S. A. Sixteen specimens of Miocene 



fossils from Virginia (Yorktown). 

 Angelo Heilprin. Thirty species from the Eocene of Claris e Co., Ala., eleven 



of which are types; nine species from the Eocene of Alabama and Florida, 



two of which are types. 

 Conchological Section of the Academy of Natural Sciences. Eighty-six species 



from the Carboniferous of Illinois, etc.; two hundred and twelve species, 



mainly from the Palaeozoic of Illinf^is and Indiana. 

 F. W. Payne. Annelid tracks in Hudson River Slate. 



A. W. Bailey. Specimen of Fulgur adversarius washed ashore from a sub- 

 marine (?) Miocene bed, Atlantic City, N. J. 

 J. W. Pike. Thirty-five species of Carboniferous fossils from Mazon Creek, 



Grundy Co., 111. 

 Dr. J. W. Hess. Fossil (?) from the Carboniferous of Vermilion, 111. 

 F. R. Latchford. Leda glacialis, Champlain clays, Ottawa River, Eardley, 



Quebec. 

 F. L. Hess. Eurypterus, from the Carboniferous of Streator, 111. 

 Dr. Jos. Wilson. Eighteen species of Crinoids, and two species of MoUusca 



from the Lower Carboniferous of Burlington, Iowa. 

 Ethnological and 3Iiscella7ieous. — Mrs. M. A. Haldeman. The Haldeman collec- 

 tion, consisting of many thousand specimens, ancient and modern, of spears 



and arrow-heads, axes, hammers, pounders, chisels, gauges, scrapers, knives, 



awls, borers, morters and pestles, mullers, net-sinkers, plummets, discoidal 



stones, sharpeners, pierced tablets, ceremonial weapons, pendants, sculpture, 



pipes, pottery, beads and other ornaments, shell-money, basket-work, bows 



and arrows, etc. 




508 ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. [1881. 



Dr. J. H. Brinton. Pestle, Cooper's Creek. Camden, N. J. 



Harriet M. Harned. Indian relic, Oxford, Adams Co., I'a. 



Otto W. Lowe. Stone axe (serpentine), Uock Is-land, 111. 



riants. — Win. M Canby. Five hundred and tiftytwo species of plants from 

 Europe, S Africa, Australia, Madeira and N. America. 



Isaac C. Martiudale. Turnera aphrodisiaca Ward. Mexico. Mentzdia crocea 

 Kell., Calif. Trunk of Quercus heterophyUa Mx., from Mt. Holly, N. J. Ellis' 

 N. American Fungi, centuries V, VI and VIII. 



Hugh D. Vail, Los Angeles, Calif., through Benj. N. Marsh. Echinocaclus 



Wislizeni Enzelm., Arizona. Twigs and acorns of Quercus Widizeni var. 



frutescens Engelm., Cal. Twigs and acorns of Q. dumosa Nutt, Cal. Twigs 



and acorns of Q. ohlongifolia Torr., Cal. Twigs and acorns of Q. agrifolia 



Nees, Cal. Flowering specimens of Eucalyplus obliqua (.?), cult, in Cal. 



Dr. J H. Eckfeldt. One hundred species of Lichens from Northern U. States, 

 mostly new to the collection, with catalogue ; pod of Ilymenira Courharil, 

 from West Indies. 



Thos. Meehan. Corallorhiza Mertensiana Bong., AVashington Terr. ; Pachystima 

 Canbyi Gr., cult, from plants found at Wytheville, Va. ; Salisburia adiantifolia, 

 in fruit, from Wisiar's garden, Germantown ; Arceuthobium ocadentale var. 

 abietinum Engelm., Washoe Valley, Nevada.; Phoradendron Junip erinum \a,r. 

 Libocedri Engelm., Washoe Valley, Nevada. 



Isaac Burk. Fruit of Ckrysobalaniis oblonyifolius, raised from seed by Mrs. 

 Caroline Pennock, Delaware Co., Pa. ; stem and root of Aristolochia tomentosa 

 Sims, cultivated. 



R. P. Smith and .J. Jay Smith, of Germantown. Phila. ; specimens of Euca- 

 lyptus globulus Lab., cult, in Cal. ; E. amygda/iiia, cult, in Cal. ; E. rostrata, 

 cult, in Cal. 



Chas. F. Parker. One hundred and seventy-five species of N. American plants 

 from his herbarium, maoy of them new to the collection. 



Two ladies, unknown. Collection of Marine Algag, mostly from N. York 

 Harbor, beautifully mounted and superbly bound ; prepared for Charles M. 

 Wheatley. by Saml. Lounsbury, of N. Y. 



M S. Bebb, Rockt'ord, III. Herbarium Sah'cum, Fascicuhis primus, being the 

 first instalment of what is intended to be a full suite of the North Am' rican 

 Willows, with such European forms as m:iy aid in the understanding of their 

 afiinities With full printed tickets and manuscript notes, accompanied 

 often with magnified drawings of tlie floral organs. 



Dr. S. B. Buckley, Austin, Tex;is. Clemafis coccinea, Englm. ; Berbiris Swayzei 

 Buckl. ; Ampelopsis quinquefolia Mx., var. heptaphylla Buckl. ; Siyrax platini- 

 folia Engelm. ; Quercus Dwrandi Buckl., series of specimens showing varia- 

 tions of foliage ; Quercus rubra L , var. Texensis Buckl. ; all from Texas. 



Prof. C. S. Sargent, Commis-ioner of Forestry Department of Tenth Census of 

 U. S. Series of specimens of N. American woods, showing transverse and 

 longitudinal sections and bark, all named at the Arnold Arboretum, Cam- 

 bridge, and numbered to correspond with Prof. Sargent's Catalogue of Trees 

 and Shrubs of N. America. 

 M. Carey Lea. A large collection of plants, consisting, first, of species col- 

 locted by him in vicinity of Philadelphia ; second, of species collected by Dr. 

 Engelmann, Prof. Tuomey, and others, in Western and Southern States ; 

 third, of species of European plants, collected by Prof, Balfour, of Edin- 

 burgh. 

 Harriet M. Harned. Fungus (?). 



J. P. H. FTuit of the great flowering Mimosa, Bombay. 



Dr. Geo. Vasey, Agricultural Department, Washington, D. C. Twenty species 



of grasses, collected by the Wilke.s Exploring Expedition, years 1838 to 1842. 



C. Mohr, Mobile, Ala. Specimen of the rare Darbya umbellata Gray, staminate 



plant, near CuUmann, Ala. 

 Geo. E. Davenport, Boston, Mass. Tsenitis lanceolata R. Br., a fern new to the 

 U. S., from Old Rhodes Key, Florida. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. -509 



Wm. P. Fodell. Double pear, preserved in alcohol, from garden in Kensing- 

 ton, Phila. 



T. R. Peale, Broussonetia papyrifera Vant., in fruit, cultivated at Ked Bank, N. 

 J. ; leaves of Quercm heterophi/Ua Mx., different forms, Swedesboro, N. J. 



F. W. Price. Linaria vulgaris Moench., peloric form and form without spur. 

 West Chester, Pa. 



F. L. Scribner. Calamagrostis Ilowellii Vasey, new species from Oregon ; 

 Panicum capiUare L., variety from Phila. ; Eulalia Japonica Trin., cultivated, 

 native of Jamaica. 



Prof. Asa Gray, Cambridge, Mass. A collection of one hundred and two 

 species of plants, collected by Dr. J. E. T. Aitcheson, in the Kurum Valley, 

 Afghanistan, in 1879. 



J. M. Hutchings, Yosemite, Cal. Cone of Pinus Lamberiiana, framed in wood 

 of the Sequoia gigantea. 



John H. Redfield. Forty-six species of plants from N. Mexico, Colorado and 

 California, many of them new to the collection. Eleven species of ferns 

 from Cilifornia, Arizona and N. Mexico, new to tlie collection. Seventeen 

 species of ferns and lycopods, collected in New Zealand by A. Craig. 



Minerals. — C. S. Bement Corundum, Mineral Hill, Del. Co., Pa.; Hydro- 

 hematite, Chestnut Hill, Lane. Co., Pa ; Rutile and quartz, Graubiinden ; 

 Pyrolusite, Ilmen, Thuringia; Pyrolusite (polianite), Bohemia: Ouvarovite, 

 Wakefield, Can., Oxford, Can. ; Pyrosmalite, Nordmarken, Sweden; Stilbite 

 and apophyllite, Cape d'or, N. S. ; Samarskite, Mitchell Co.. N. C, ; Apatite, 

 Renfrew, Can.; Autunite, Cornwall, Eng. ; Ankerite, Erzberg, Styria; 

 Aragonite, colored by cobalt, Schwartz, Tyrol ; Meteoric iron, Aug. Co., 

 Va. ; Blende, Ulster Co., N. Y. ; Greenockite, Friedenville, Pa.; Arseno- 

 pyrite, Cornwall, Eng ; Magnetite, Binnenthal ; Rutile in pericline, Pfilsch, 

 Tyrol : Limonite on quartz, Schneeberg, Sax. : Wollastonite, Lewis Co., N. Y. ; 

 Garnets, Phila., Jefferson Co.. N. Y., and Kremnitz. Hungary ; Axinite, near 

 Bethlehem, Pa.; Felspar, Silesia, Austria; Datholite, Isle Royal, L. S. ; 

 Serpentine, Grand Cal. Is., Can.; Serpentine pseud., after Monticellite, 

 Monzoni, Tyrol ; Titanite, Renfrew, Can. ; Wolframite pseud., after Scheelite, 

 Trumbull, Conn.; Barite (cawk), Derbyshire, Eng.; Blue Calcite, Rossie, 

 N. Y. ; Azurite, Moldaira; Orpiment, Felsiib^nya, Hungary; Petzite, Col.; 

 Spinel and Idocrase, Vesuvius ; Manganite, Sweden ; Limonite, Chestnut 

 Hill, Lane. Co., Pa., and Superior ^Mine, Mich. ; Cookeite, Mt. Mica, Me. ; 

 Wollastonite, Vesuvius ; Pyroxene, Renfrew, Can. ; Tourmaline (nine crys- 

 tals), Pierpont, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Titanite, Medels, Surry and Ontario, 

 Can.; Finite, Schwartzenbach, Bavaria; Pyromorphite, Cumberlaud, Eng.; 

 Brochantite, Sonnenberg ; Calcite, St. Louis, Mo.; Concretions of Siliceous 

 carb. of lime, Easton, Pa.; Concretions (very beautiful), head of Conn. 

 River, N. Y. ; Thenardite, Tarapaca, S. A.; Zircon (twin crystal), Renfrew, 

 Can. ; Apatite, Renfrew, Can. ; Scapolite, St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; Sphene 

 and wollastonite, Lewis Co , N. Y. ; Millerite, Antwerp, N. Y. ; Pyroxene, 

 Can. ; Zircon, Grenoble, Can. ; Muscovite, Portland, Conn. ; Zircon with 

 apatite, Renfrew, Can ; Colurabite, Middletown, Conn., and Portlajid, Conn.; 

 Campylite, Cumberland, Eng. ; Specific gravity apparatus of Jolly. 

 Wm. S. Vaux. Fine specimens of Danburiie, Russell. St. Lawrence Co., N. Y. ; 

 Fine specimen of apatite in calcite, Canada; Twin Zircon, Renfrew, Canada; 

 Native gold in quartz. Gaston (]o., N. C. ; Native copper. Australia; Native 

 sulphur, Napa Co., Cal. ; Byssolite, Chester Co ; ChrysocoUa, Berks Co. 

 Pa.; Prehinite, Charleston, Mass. ; Haiiynite, Laacher See, Prussia ; Anda- 

 lusite, Tyrol ; Stilbite, Reading, Pa. ; Dolomite (gurhofite). Sussex Co., N. J. ; 

 Siderite, Scranton, Pa. ; Aragonite with Chalcopyrite and magnetite, Berks 

 Co., Pa,; Cerussite, Chester Co., Pa.; Malachite, Berks Co., I'a. ; Azurite 

 and ChrysocoUa, Lebanon Co., Pa.; Galenite, coated with Pyromorphite, 

 • Stolzite with Wulfenite, Pyromorphite and galenite, all from Wheatley Mine, 

 Chester Co., Pa, ; Pebble of anthracite, Tamaqua, Pa. 




510 ADDITIONS TO THE MUSEUM. [1881. 



Mrs. Hugh Davids Octahedrite (Wiserine), Binnenthal, Switzerland; Wol- 

 framite, Germany. 



J. B. Gicker. Actinolite, washed from decomposed rock, Chestnut Hill, Del- 

 aware. 



Jos. P. Hazard. Anthracite, Wales ; Metallic tin, Cornwall ; Limestone, Hima- 

 laya Mts. 



A. Meyer. Twenty-nine specimens of fossil iron ores and associated rocks, 

 Lycoming Co., Pa 



Mr. Fiss. Beryl (very large crystal), Amelia Co., Va. 



S. Tyson. Basmiisite and Tysonite, Colorado. 



Jos. Willcox. Corundum; ditto, coated with damourite; ditto, coated with 

 margarite, Iredell Co., N. C. 



Geo. VVoener. Impure limoniie ; bituminous shale, Pa. 



E. S. Reinhold. Alunogen, Mahanoy City, Pa. 



A. H. Smith. Flattened garnet in muscovite, Del, Co., Pa. ; Boulders dredged 

 from bed of Del. River, below Chester, Pa. ; Gneiss, Schooner Ledge, Del. 

 River. 



Peter Walker. Dendritic manganese in sandstone, conglomerate, etc., Wayne 

 Co., Pa. 



J. W. Pike. Liraonite nodule, Newfield, N. J. 



S. Ball. Hematite in gieen quartz ; siderite ; rhodonite ; all from near Wind- 

 sor, Me. 



G. Howard Parker. Aquacreptite ; autunite; menaccanite ; apatite; all from 

 vicinity of Phila. ; Native tellurium, Boulder Co., Col. 



Theo. D. Rand. Nine specimens of rocks, vicinity of Phila. ; Gypsum (arti- 

 ficial), from a salt-pan; Quartz in mica, Amelia Co., Va. ; Stalactite, moun- 

 tain cork, and nine specimens of rocks, Del. Co., Pa. 



W. P. Adams. Dolomite, Harford Co., Md. 



E. M. Bye. Magnetite, enstatite, talc with altered actinolite, serpentine, 

 picrolite ; all from Harford Co., Md. 



H. C. Lewis. Halotrichite, East Park, Phila. ; Halotrichite, melanterite and 

 sulphatite (efflorescence on marl). West Jersey marl pits; Fahlunite, Ger- 

 mantown, Phila. ; Recent rain prints, marl pits, Pemberton, N. J, 



W. AV. JeflFeris. Aragonite, pyrite, Chester Co., Pa.; Garnet, Del. Co., Pa. ; 

 Epidote, Baltimore, Md. ; Calcite, Wisconsin ; Quartz. Mill Creek Hundred, 

 Del. 



C. M. Wheatley. Chalcocite, pseudomorph after wood. Little Whitia River, 

 Archer Co., Tex. 



W. H. H. Bates. Pyrrhotite, China, Me. 



J. M. Hartmann. " Salamander," or slag, from blast furnace, Oxford, N. J. 



Mrs. M. A. Haldeman. Spinel ruby, Ceylon. 



Dr. Kreizer. Black marble, Myerstown, Lebanon Co., Pa. 



In exchange. Vesuvianite, Templeton, Can. ; White Garnet, Hull, Can. ; 

 Apatite (twin crystal), Renfrew, Can. ; Smilhsonite, Sultanella, Spain ; 

 Aragonite, Fort (Collins, Col. 



Carpenter, Henzey & Co. Chemicals for use of Professor of Mineralogy. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. , 511 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 



1881. 



Agardh, J. G. Species genera et ordines Algarum. Ill, 2. I. V, Williamson 



Fund. 

 Alumni Association of the Philladelphia College of Pharmacy, 17th annual 



report. The Association. 

 American Museum of Natural History, 12th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Angelin, N. P. ,, Fragmenta Silurica e dono Caroli Henrici Wegelin. 



Geologisk Ofversigts-Karta ofver Skane, etc. Swedish Academy of 



Sciences. 

 Palieontologica Scandinavica. P. I, Fasc. 1 and 2. The Author. 

 Arango, R. Moluscos univalves marinos. Pp. 145 et seq. The Author. 

 Archiac, A. d", P. Fischer and E. de Verneuil. Asie Mineure description 



phys.; Paleontologie. Text and atlas. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Archiv der Naturw. Landesdurchforschuug von Bohmen. IV, 3 and 5. I. 



V. Williamson Fund. 



Astor Library, 32d annual report. The Trustees. 



Baillon, M. H. Dictionnaire de Botanique. 13me Fasc. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Baird, S. F. Report of, as secretary of Smithsonian Institution. 1880. The 



Author. 

 Baker, J. G. Flora of Mauritius and the Seychelles. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Barber, E. A. Pueblo pottery. 



Antiquity of the tobacco-pipe in Europe. The Author. 

 Barcena, M Ciudad de Guadalajara. 



Fenomena periodicos de la Vegetacion. The Author. 

 Batsch, J. Ueber Cysticerken im menschlichen Koerper. University of Wiirz- 



burg. 

 Baumiiller, B. Ueber die letzten Veranderungen des Meckel' schen Knorpels. 



University of Wiirzburg. 

 Beadle, Rev. E. R., memorials of. 2d Presbyterian Church. 

 Bentham, G. and F. Mueller. Flora Austraiiensis. Vols. 1-7. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Berg, Carlos. Apuntes lepidopterologicos. The Author. 

 Bland, Thos. New species of Triodopsis. The Author. 

 Bodley, R. L. The college story. The Author. 

 Bohnensieg, G. C. VV. Repertorium annuum literaturiB botanicse periodicae. 



VI. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Bornet. E. and G. Thuret. Notes Algologiques. 2me Fasc. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Borre, A. Preudhomme de. Especes de la tribu des Feronides qui se rencon- 

 trent en Belgique. 2me partie 

 Vingt-Ciuq premieres ann^es de la Soci^te entomologique de Belgique. 

 Note sur la femelle du Rhagiosoma Madagascariense. 

 Espece nouvelle du genre Trichillum. Note sur le genre Macroderes 



Wstw. 

 Organisation et I'histoire naturelle des animaux articul(5s The Author. 

 Boucard, A. Coleoptera of the genus Plusiotis. The Author. 

 Bouve, T. T. Historical Sketch of the Boston Society of Natural History. The 



Author. 

 Bowditch, H. I., M. D. Public hygiene in America. The Author. 

 Brady, G. S. Monograph of the free and semi-parasitic Copepoda of the 

 British Islands. Vols. 2 and 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



34 




512 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Brefeld, 0. Botanisclie Untersuchungen liber Schimmelpilze. 4 H. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 British Association for the Advancement of Science, report of the 50th meeting, 



1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 British Museum. Catalogue of birds. Vol. V. 



Lepidoptera heterocera. Pt. V. The Trustees. 

 Britton, N. L. Preliminary catalogue of the flora of New Jersey. Geological 



Survey of N. J. 

 Bronn, H. G. Klassen und Ordnungen des Thier-Reichs. 6er Bd. II Abtb. 



1-3 Lief. ; 6er Bd. Ill Abth, 13-21 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Brvihl, B. Zootomie aller Thierklassen ; Atlas, Lief. lC-20 I. V.Williamson 



Fund. 

 Brunner, D. B. The Indians of Berks County, Pa. The Author. 

 Buckton. Geo. B. Monograph of the British Aphides. III. Wilson Fund. 

 Calkins, W. W. New species of Zonites from Illinois. The Author. 

 Capellini, G. Balenoterra fossile delle Colonbaie presso Volterra. 



Gli strati a congerie e le marme compatie mioceniche dei dintorni di 



Ancona. 

 Breccia ossifera della caverna di Santa Teresa. The Author. 

 Carr, Lucian. Notes on the crania of New England Indians. 



Observations on the crania from the Santa Barbara Islands, Cal. The 

 Author. 

 Catalogue of the birds of the British Museum. Vol. V. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Catalogus des Bibliothek van het K. Z. Genootschap Natura Artis Magistra te 



Amsterdam. The Society. 

 Certes, M. A. Coloration des infusoires et des elements anatomiques, pendant 



la vie. The author. 

 Challenger, report on scientific results. Zoology, Vols. 1 and 2. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 

 Chambers, V. T. New species of Tineina. The Author. 

 Chief of the Bureau of Statistics, annual statement, June 30, 1880. 



Quarterly reports, Sept. 30, 1880-June 30, 1881. Treasury Department. 

 Chief of Engineers, U. S. A,, annual report, 1880. Pts. 1, 2 and 8. War 



Department. 

 Chief of Ordnance, annual report, June 30, 1880. War Department. 

 Chile. Estadistica comercial, 1879. 



La question de limites entre Chile i la Republica Argentina. T. II, 1880. 



Anuario de la Oficina Central Meteorologica, 1873-74, 



Relaciones esteriores, 1880. 



Memoria de justicia, culto e instruccion publica, 1880. 



Memoria del Ministerio del Interior, 1880. 



Anuario hidrografico. Ano VI. 



Memoria del Ministerio de Hacienda, 1880. 



Memoria de guerra i marina, 1 880. 



El arbitraje internacional en el pasado en el presente i en el porvenir, 



1877. 

 Cuenta jeneral de las entrados i Gastos fiscales, 1879. 

 Anuario estadistico, 1877-78. T. XX. 

 Immigracion Asiatica, 1880. 



Sesiones ordinarias de la Camara de Diputados. Nos. 1 and 2. 

 Sesiones ordinarias de la Camara de Senadores, en 1879. Nos. 1 and 2. 

 University of Chile. 

 Cohn, F. Beitr'age zur Biologic der Pflanzen. Ill, 2. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Colonial Museum and Geological Survey of New Zealand, 15th annual report. 



Meteorological report, 1880 The Author. 

 Comes, 0. Funghi del Napoletano e descrizione di due nuove specie. The 

 Author. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 513 



Commission de la Carte Geologique de la Belgique. Texte explieatif du Lev6 

 g^ologique des Plancliettes d'Aerschot, Lubeck, Boisschot, Kermpt (Bol- 

 derberg). The Survey. 

 Commissioner of Education, reports, 1878-1879. 

 Circulars of information, 3-8. 



Statistics of elementary education. Department of Interior. 

 Commissioners of Fisheries of the State of Maine, reports, 1872,. 1874-1880. 



The Commissioners. 

 Commissioner of Fisheries of Maryland, report of the, 1876-77, 1879, 1880. 



The Author. 

 Commissioners of Fisheries, Massachusetts, reports of, 1869, 1870. 5th, 7th- 



15th. The Commissioners. 

 Commissioner of Fisheries. New York, reports 7th-llth. The author. 

 Cope, E. D. On the Canida; of the Loup Fork Epoch. 



Review of the Rodentia of the miocene period of North America. 



PalEeontological bulletin. No. 33. 



On the effect of impacts and strains on the feet of mammalia. 



The Rodentia of the American miocene. A new Clidastes from New 



Jersey. 

 The temporary dentition of a new Creodont. 

 On the extinct cats of America. 

 Mammalia of the lower eocene beds. 



Second contribution to the history of the vertebrata of the Permian forma- 

 tion of Texas. 

 On some new batrachia and reptilia from the Permian beds of Texas, etc. 

 Systematic arrangement of the order Perissodactyla. 



New batrachia and reptilia from the Permian beds of Texas, etc. The 

 Author. 

 Cross, J. K Imports, exports and the French treaty. Cobden Club. 

 Daily bulletin of weather reports, June and July, 1877. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Daniels, C, E. Het leven en de Verdiensten van Petrus Camper. Provincial 



Utrechtsch Genootschap. 

 Danielssen, D. C. and J. Koren. Norwegian North-Atlantic expedition, 1876- 



1878. Ill, Zoology, Gephyrea. Norwegian Government. 

 Danzig in naturwissenschaftlicher und medizinischer Beziehung. Association 



of German Naturalists. 

 Darwin, Chas. The power of movement in plants. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Dawkins, W. Boyd Classification of the tertiary period by means of the mam- 

 malia. The Author. 

 De Camp. W. H. List of shell-bearing mollusca of Michigan. The Author. 

 De Candolle, A & C. Monographiaj phanerogamarum prodromi. III. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Department of Agrriculture. Special report, Nos. 84, 37-39. Contagious 

 diseases of domesticated animals. 

 Preliminary report, 1880. 

 Report, 1879. 



Report on the condition of the crops, Nov. 1, 1880. Department of Agri- 

 culture. 

 Department of Mines. New South Wales, annual report, 1878-1879, with atlas. 



The Department. 

 Departmeut of Mines, Nova Scotia, report, 1880. The Commissioners. 

 Dictionary of the English and Danish languages. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Doherty. Dr. Hugh. Philosophie Organique. The Author. 

 Dokoupil, Wm. I'ie Lehrmittel und Scbiilerarbeiten auf der 1878er bestritzer 



Landwirtschaftlichen und geweblichen Au-istellung. The Author. 

 DoUinger, J. V. Das Haus Wittelsbach. Royal Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Druifel, A. V. Ignatius von Loyola und der Romaischen Curie. Royal 

 Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 




514 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Duncan, P. M. Scientific results of the 2d Yarkand Mission. Syringosphae- 



ridiB. The Author. 

 Dunnington, F. P., W. M. Thornton and J. R. Page. Lectures delivered before 



the Albemarle Agricultural Society. The Authors. 

 Button, C. E. Report on the geology of the high plateaus of Utah, with altas. 



C. F. Parker. 

 Dwight, S. ' Statistical account of the City of New Haven. Connecticut Acad- 

 emy of Sciences. 

 Eichwald, E. d'. Letha3a Rossica. o vols, text and S vols, atlas. Joseph 



.Jeanes. 

 Elderhorst's qualitative blow-pipe analysis. 6th Ed. In exchange. 

 Elliot, D. G. Monograph of the Felidie, VII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Encyclopedia Britannica 9th Ed. XII. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Encyklopsedie der Naturwissenschaften, I, 14-24. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Engelskt och Svenskt Handlexikon. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Ernst, A. Memoria botanica sobre el Embarbascar. Las familias mas im- 



portantes del Reina vegetal. The Author. 

 Farey, J., Sen. Agriculture and mineral lands of Derbyshire. Vols. 1, 2 and 



3. In exchange. 

 Farlow, W. J. Marine algag of New England. 



The Gymnosporangia or cedar-apples of the United States. The Author. • 

 Faught, L. A. Index to physiology. The Author. 

 Field, D. D. Statistical account of the County of Middlesex in Connecticut. 



Connecticut Academy of Sciences. 

 Fleming, S. The adoption of a prime meridian to be common to all nations. 



The Author. 

 Florence, A. Ueber die Bacterien des blauen Eiters. University of Wurz- 



burg. 

 Financial reform almanack, 1881. Financial Reform Association. 

 Fischer, P. Manuel de conchyliologie. Pt. 1. The Author. 

 Fischer, M. and H. Crosse. Mis. scient. au Mex. Recherches zool. 7me partie, 



Mollusques, T. II, pp. 1-80, pi's 32-36. The Authors. 

 Freytag, Bergrath. Bad Oeynhaitsen (Rehme) in Westfalen. The Author. 

 Fritsch, Ant. Fauna der Gaskohle und der Kalksteine der Permformation 



Bohmens. I, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Fuchs, C. W. C. and T. AV. Danby. Practical guide to the determination of 



minerals by the blowpipe. In exchange. 

 Gabb, W. M. Caribbean miocene fossils. 

 Gassies, M. J. B. Supplement au catalogue des mollusques terrestres et d' eau 



douce du Departument de Lot-et-Garonne. 

 Note sur des Metis de Rumina decollata. 



Note sur la faune conchyliologique ter. et fluv. de la Nouvelle CaMdonie. 

 Des causes de disparition de certaines especes de mollusques terrestres 



dans la Guyenne et de I'acclimatation de certaines autres. 

 Faune conchyliologique de la Nouvelle Caledonie, 3me. Partie. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Genth, F. A. and W. C. Kerr. The minerals an 1 mineral localities of North 



Carolina. The Authors. 

 Geographical Surveys of the 100th Mer. 1874. Appendix F^ ; 1877, Ap.N^; 



1879, Ap. 6^, and topographical and land classification, atlas sheet. 



Engineer Dep. U. S. A. 

 Geological Exploration of the 40th Par. Report, Vol. VJI. Engineer Depart- 

 ment, U. S. A. 

 Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. Bulletin, VI. 1. Depart- 

 ment of Interior. 

 Geological and Natural History Survey of Minnesota. 8th annual report. N. 



H. Mitchell. 

 Geological Survey of Canada. Report of progress for 1878-79, with maps. 

 List of publications, 1879. Geological Survey of Canada. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 515 



Geological Survey of India. Records, XII. 4: XIII. 1, 2, 3,4; XVI. 1. 

 Memoirs, 8vo. XV. 2 ; XVI. 2, 3 ; XVII. 1 and 3. Memoirs, 4to. Pal. 

 Ind. Ser. II. 1-4. Vol. 1 ; Ser. II ; Ser. X, Vol. 1 ; XI, XII, Vol. Ill ; 

 Ser. XI. Pts. 1, 2, Vol. II ; Ser. XII. Vol. 3 ; Ser. XIII, Vols. 1 and 2. 

 The Survey. 

 Geological Survey of New .Jersey. Annual report of the State Geologist for the 



year 1880 The Author. 

 Geyler, H. Th. Botanische Mittheilungen. The Author. 

 Grote, A. R. Genesis, I and II. 2d Ed. The Author. 

 Gill, Theo. Glinther's literature and morphology of fishes. The Author. 

 Gosselet, M. J. Les roches cristallines des Ardennes. 

 Les sables tertiaires du Plateau de 1' Ardenne. 

 Documents nouveaux pour 1' etude du Famennien. 

 L'Argile a silex de Vervins. 

 La roche a Fepin. 



Terrain diluvien de la Vallee de la Somme. 

 De r usage du Droit de priorite d'Halloy. 

 Notice n^crologique sur Jean-Baptiste-Julien D'Omalius. 

 Esquisse geologique du Nord de la France, ler. Fasc. The Author. 

 Grassi, E. II primo anno della clinica ostetrica diretta dal Prof. Cav. Vincenzo. 



R. 1st. di. Perfez. in Firenze. 

 Gratiolet, L. P. Recherches sur I'anatomie de I'Hippopotame, 1867. Dr. H. 



C. Chapman. 

 Green, S. Trout culture. The Author. 

 Green, S. S. Library aids. Department of the Interior. 

 Grote, A. R. Preliminary list of North American species of Agrostis. The 



Author. 

 Haeckel, E. Das system der Medusen, 2e Hlilfte des ersten Theils, text and 



atlas. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hall, J. Natural History of New York. Palfeontology. V. 2, text and 



plates. The Author. 

 Hart, C. H. Memoir of Samuel Stehman Haldeman. Mrs. Haldeman. 

 Hartman, Dr. W. D. Catalogue of the genus Partula Fer. The Author. 

 Harvard University. Library bulletin. No. 17. The University. 

 Hawes, G. W. Liquid carbon dioxide in smoky quartz. 



The Albany granite. New Hampshire, and its contact phenomena. The 

 Author. 

 Hebert, Edm. Craie supcrieure du versant septentrional des Pyrenees. The 



Author. 

 Hector, J. Report of geological explorations (New Zealand), during 1879-80. 



The Author. 

 Heer, 0. Flora fossilis arctica. 6er Bd. 1 Abth. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hemphill, H. Description of a new California moUusk. The Author. 

 Henry, James. Aeneidea. Vol. 2, pp. 629 et seq. The Author. 

 Henry, Jos., a memorial of. 1880. The Smithsonian Institution. 

 Hermann, L. Handbuch der Physiologie. V, 2erTh. 1 Lief ; VI, 1 and 2 Th. 



I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hewitson. W. C. Specimen of a catalogue of Lycaenidfe in the British Museum. 



1862. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hinde, G. J. Fossil sponge spicules from the Upper Chalk. The Author. 

 Hoffman, AV. J., M. D. Annotated list of birds of Nevada. The Author. 

 Hooker, Sir J. D. Flora of British India. Part VIII. East Indian Govern- 

 ment. 

 Hoppe-Seyler, F. Physiologische Chemie. IV Th I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Hough, F. B. Report upon forestry. Vol. II. Department of Agriculture. 

 Hull, Edw. Coal-fields of Great Britain. 4th Ed. The Author, 

 Hunfalvy, P. Literarische Berichte aus Ungarn. IV Bd. 1-4. Hungarian 

 Academy of Sciences. 




^IQ ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Hyatt, A. Genesis of the tertiary species of Planorbis at Steinheim. Geo. W. 



Tryon, Jr. 

 Ilarione, S. Giovanni. Uno squardo sulla fauna eocenica. The Author. 

 Index-catalogue of the library of the Surgeon-General's office, U. S. A. Vol. 



II. War Department. 

 Instructions governing the establishment and management of the Polar expe- 

 dition to Lady Franklin Bay and Point Barrow. War Department. 

 Issel, A. Crociera del Violante. Mulluschi terrestri e d'acqua dolce viventi 



e fossili della Tunisia. The Author. 

 Jack, R. L. Geological features of part of the coast range between the Dal- 



rymple and Charter Towers Road. 

 Queensland, 1879. Report on the geology and mineralogical resources of 



the district between Charter Towers gold-fields and the coast. 

 Report on the Bowen River coal-fields. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Jackson, B. D. Guide to the literature of botany. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Jaenicke, A. Photometrische Untersuchungen des Blutes. University of 



Wurzburg. 

 Jameson, Robt. Outline of the mineralogy of the Scottish Isles. 2 vols. 



1800. In exchange. 

 Jordan, D. S. and P. L. Jouy. Check-list of duplicates of fishes from the 



Pacific coast of North America. The Authors. 

 Julien, A. A. Carbon dioxide in the fluid cavities of topaz. The Author. 

 Just, Leopold. Botanischer Jahresbericht. 6er Jahrg. 1878, 2er Abth. 1 H. 



I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 

 Keep. Josiah. Common sea-shells of California. The author. 

 Kendall, Mr. Catalogue of mineral and fossil remains of Scarborough. In 



exchange. 

 King, Wm. Preliminary notice of a memoir on rock-jointing. 



List of published scientific writings of. The Author. 

 K. K. Quecksilberwerk zu Idria in Krain. The Royal Direction of Mines in 



Idria. 

 Kobelt, W. Illustrirfes Conchylienbuch. lOe and lie Lief. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Koenig, G. A. On Jarosile from a new locality. 



On Alaskaite. The Author. 

 Klein, E. and E. Noble Smith. Atlas of histology. XIII. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Kiichenmeister, F. and F. A. Ziirn. Die Parasiten des Menschen. 2e Aufi. 



3 Lief. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lawes, J. B. Memoranda of experiments. 



Fertility. The Author. 

 Leidy, Jos. Parasites of the Termites. 



Bathygnathiis borealis. The Author. 

 Langdon, F. W. The Madisonville pre-historic cemetery. The Author. 

 Les oiseaux dans la Nature. Livr. 11-20. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Leuckart, R. Die Parasiten des Menschen I, 2. 2e Aufi. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Levittoux, H. Philosophic de la nature. 3me Ed. The Author. 

 Lewis, Henry C. Note on the zodiacal light. The Author. 

 Library Commissioners, Halifax, annual report, 1880. The Authors. 

 Library Compmy of Philada. Bulletin No. 6, July, 1881. The Company. 

 Light-house Board, annual report, June 30, 1880. Treasury Department. 

 McCook, Rev. II. C. The Honey Ants of the garden of the gods, and the Occi- 

 dent Ant of the American plains. 

 Ants associated with the cotton-worm. 

 New northern cutting ant, Atta Septentrionalis, etc. 

 The snare of the Ray spider (Epeira radiosa). The Author. 

 Marrht, F. P. Shells belonging to the genus Nassa. The Author. 

 Marsh, 0. C. Odontornithes, 1880. The Author. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. nlT 



Martens, E. von. Conchologische Mittheilungen. I, 5 and 6. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Martini and Chemnitz. Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet. 297-307 Lief. 



Wilson Fund. 

 Mason, John J. Thirty photographs of microscopic preparations of the nervous 



system, and one photograph of the tongue of the fly. The Author. 

 Mason, Otis^ Notes on anthropology. The Editor. 



Mayer, K. Die Tertiar-Fauna der Azoren und Madeiren. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Medley, Geo. W. The reciprocity craze. The Author. 

 Meehan, Thos. Objects of sex and odor in flowers. 



Forests and forestry. The Author. 

 Mercantile Library Association of the City of New York, 60th annual report. 



The Trustees. 

 Mercantile Library Association of San Francisco, 28th annual report, 1881. 



The Trustees. 

 Meteorological Service of the Dominion of Canada, report, Dec. 31, 1879. The 



Superintendent. 

 Meyer, A. B. Index zu L Reichenbach's ornithologischen Werken. The 



Author. 

 Michigan State Fisheries, Ist-lth reports. The Superintendent. 

 Milne-Edwards, H, Le9ons sur la physiologie et I'anatomie compar(5e. XIV, 



2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mission scientifique au Mexique. Recherches zoologiques. Ill partie pp. 



441-488, pi. 22e-22j. 2d section, pp. 1-56, pi's 1-10. V partie, pp. 



265-368, pi's 31a-61. VII partie, T. II, pp. 1-80, pi's 31-36. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Moleschott, J. Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der Thiere. 



XII, 5, 6. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Mongredien, Aug. History of the free-trade movement in England. The 



«' Cobden Club. 

 Morris, J. Statistical account of several towns in the county of Litchfield. 



Connecticut Academy of Sciences. 

 Mueller, F. Fragmenta phytographise Australioe. Vols. 2 and 10. 

 Descriptive notes on Papuan plants. I. 

 Index perfectus ad Caroli Linnasi Speciei Plantarum. 

 Select extra-tropical plants. New South Wales edition. 

 Plants of northwestern Australia. The Author. 

 Mueller, N. J. C. Handbuch der Botanik. II, 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Museum Godeft'roy, catalogue. VIII. 

 Naturw. Landesdurch. von Bohmen, Archiv. IV, 2. Texte und Atlas. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Newberry, J. S. The genesis of the ores of iron. The Author. 

 New Jersey State Agricultural Experiment Station, 1st annual report. The 



Directors. 

 New South Wales, geological sketch map. Department of Min<<s, N. S. W. 

 New York State Museum of Natural History, 28th-31st annual reports. The 



Trustees. 

 Newton, A. and E. List of birds of Jamaica. The Authors. 

 Newton, H. and W. P. Jenney. Geology and resources of the Black Hills of 



Dakota. Department of Interior. 



Nomenclature des Etres organises. Zoolojrical Society of France. 

 Norwegian North-Atlantic Expedition. Chemistry and zoology. Norwegian 



Government. 

 Pacini, F. Del processo morboso del Colera Asiatica. R. 1st. di Perfez. in 



Firenze. 

 Palaeontological Society, Vol. 35. Wilson Fund. 

 Pal^ontologie Francaise. 2e Ser. Vegetaux. Terrain Jurassique. Livr. 30; 



Ire Ser., An. Invert., Ter. Juras. Livr. 44-46. Wilson Fund. 




518 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Palaeontographica. 2Ger Bd. 2-6 L. 2er Bd. 1 und 2 L. Wilson Fund. __ 

 Parlatore, F. Tavole per una Anatomia delle piante aquatiche. R. 1st. di 



Perfez. in Firenze. 

 Pebal, L. v. Das chemische Institut der K. K. Universitiit Graz. 1880. The 



Author. 

 Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial Art. 5th annual report of 



Board of Trustees. The Authors. 

 Pfeiifer, L. Nomenclator Heliceorum viventium. 7-10 L, I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Plateau, F. Recherches physiologiques sur le coeur des crustaccs d^capodes. 

 Observations sur I'anatomie de I'elephant d'Afrique (Loxodon Afri- 



canus) adulte. The Author. 

 Plattner's Analysis with the blowpipe. 4th Ed. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Powell, J. W. Introduction to the study of Indian languages. 2d Ed. Smith- 

 sonian Institution. 

 Putnam, F. W. Contribution to the archaeology of Missouri. Part I, Pottery. 

 The Indians of California. 

 Archpeological Notes. 

 Pueblo Pottery The Author. 

 Quenstedt, F. A. Handbuch der Petrefiktenkunde. 2 Vols, text and atlas. 



Joseph Jeanes. 

 Raulin, V. Description phys. et nat. de Pile de Crete. 2 vols, and atlas. 



The Author. 

 R. Comitato Geologica d'ltalia. Bollettina, X, 1-12. The Survey. 

 Redfifcld, .J. H. Catalogue of the known species recent and fossil of the family 



Marginellidae. The Author. 

 Reyer, E, Allgemeine Geschichte des Zuines. The Author. 

 Reynaud, J. Histoire elementaire des Mineraux usuels. H. C. Lewis. 

 Rhees, Wm. J. James Smithson and his bequest, 1880. The Smithsonian 



Institution. 

 Riley, Chas. V. The Rocky Mountain locust. The Author. 

 Rockinger, L. Die Ptlege der Geschichte durch die Wittelsbacher. Royal 



Bavarian Academy of Sciences. 

 Roesler, Aug. Die patentirte Zeichentisch. The Author. 

 Rolland, M. G. Les gisements de Mercure de Californie. 



Mission Trans-Saharienne de Laghouat el Goleah-Ouargla-Biskra. 

 La metallurgie du Mercure en Californie. 

 Sur le gisements de silex tallies d'El Hassi. 

 Sur le terrain cretace du Sahara septentrionale. The Author. 

 Rossmassler's Iconographie der europiiischen Land und Susswasser-MoUusken. 



VII Bd. 4-6 Lief. Wilson Fund. 

 Russ, K. Die fremdlilndischen Stubenvogel. Ill; 10 ; IV. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 Rutger's Scientific School. 16th annual report. The Directors. 

 Ryder, J. A. Structure and ovarian incubation of the top-minnow 



(Zygonectes). The Author. 

 Saint-Lager, Dr. Nouvelles remarques sur la nomenclature botanique. The 



Author 

 Saint Louis Mercantile Library Association, 35th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Saussure, H. de. Voyage au Turkestan. Hymenoptferes, Famille des Scolides. 



The Author. 

 Schefifer, U. Die Naturgesetze und ihr zusammenhang mit den Prinzipien der 



abstrakten Wissenschaften. 4er Th., 9e und letzte Lief. The Author. 

 Schlegel, M. Museum d"histoire naturelle des Pays-Bas. T. IX. Wilson 



Fund. 

 Schlesischen botanische Tausch-Verein, General-Doubletten-Verzeichniss. The 



Society. 

 Schmidt, A, Atlas der Diatomaceen-Kunde. 17 and 18 Heft. I. V. William- 

 sou Fund. 




i 



1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 519 



Schoneburgh, R. Report on the progress and condition of the Botanic Garden 

 and Government Plantation, Adelaide, during the year 1880. The 

 Author. 

 Schufeldt, R. W. Osteology of Speotyto cunicularia, var. hypogsea and of 



Eremophila alpestris. The Author. 

 Scudder, S. H. Structure and affinities of Euphorbia Meek and Worthen. 

 Problems in entomology. 



The tertiary lake basin of Florissant, Colorado. ' 



List of orthoptera collected by Dr. A. S. Packard, Jr., in the western 

 United States in the summer of 1877. The Author. 

 Second Geological Survey of Pennsylvania, reports. A', G,* G^, H^, H^, I^, M^, 



P, Q*, R and T. Appendiz A to report R. The Survey. 

 Second Yarkand Mission, scientific results of. Rhynchota, by W. L. Distant; 

 SyringosphseridiE, by Prof. P. Martin Duncan ; Lepidoptera, by Fred- 

 eric Moore ; Mammalia, by W. T. Blanford. East India Government. 

 Sequin, Aine, M. Causes et effets de la chaleur de la lumiere et de I'^lectricite. 

 Les lois qui president a I'accomplissement des phenomfenes naturels 



rapport6s a I'attraction Newtonienne. 

 L'origine et la propagation de la force. Considerations sur les causes de la 



cohesion. 

 Reflexions sur I'hypothese de Laplace. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Semper C. Reisen im Archipel der Philippinen. 2er Th. 2er Bd. Supple- 

 ment-Heft I. Wilson Fund. 

 Sheafer, P. W. Geology of Schuylkill County. The Author. 

 Shepard, C. U. Treatise on Mineralogy. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Silliman, B. Mineralogical Notes. 1. Vanadinite, etc., from Arizona. The 



Author. 

 Slagg, J. French trade and tarifs. Cobden Club. 

 Smith, E. A. Geological Survey of Alabama, reports 1875, 1877 and 1878, 



1879 and 1880. -The Author. 

 Smith, Greene. Catalogue of birds, eggs and nests, 1880. The Author. 

 Smith, J. A. Biennial report of the State Geologist of the State of Colorado, 



for the term ending Dec. 3, 1880. The Author. 

 Smithsonian Institution. Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. 23. 

 Miscellaneous collections. Vols. 18, 19, 20, 21. 

 Annual report, 1879. The Institution. 

 Smucker, I. Mound-builders' works near Newark, Ohio. The Author. 

 Sowerby, G. B. Thesaurus Conchyliorum. Pts. 35 and 36. Wilson Fund. 

 Speyer, 0. Die Conchylien der Casseler Tertiiirbildungen. 1-6 Lief. Joseph 



Jeanes. 

 State Commissioners of Fisheries, Pennsylvania, reports 1879 and 1880. B. 



L. Hewit. 

 State Fish Commission of Iowa. lst-3d biennial reports. The Commissioners. 

 State Geologist of Colorado. Biennial report, Dec. 31, 1880. The Author. 

 Stearns, R. E. C, Observations on Planorbis. 

 On Helix aspersa in California. 

 Mya arenaria in San Francisco Bay. 



New species of marine mollusks from the coast of Florida. The Author. 

 Steenstrup, J. Prof. A. E. Verrila to nye Cephalopodslaegter, Sthenoteuthis 

 og Lestoteuthis. 

 Sepiadarium og Idiosepius to nye Slsegter af Sepiernes Familie. The 

 Author. 

 Stoppani, A. e G. Negri. Carattere marine dei grande amfiteatri Morenici 



deir alta Italia. A. Stoppani. 

 Struckmann, C, Geognostische Studien am Deister. II. 1880. The Author. 

 Sveriges Geologiska Undersokning. 8vo, Ser. Aa Nos. 73-79 ; Ser. Ab, No. 

 6. Ser. C, Nos. 36-41 (42, 4to), 43 and 44. 4to. Ser. C, 42. Six maps. 

 The Survey. 




520 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Taramelli, M E. T. Sulla poslzione stratigrafica della zona fiUitica de Rotzo 



e dei calcari tnariui che la comprendono. 

 Della Salsa di Querzola. 



Di alcune scoscendimenti posglaciale sulle Alpi meridionale. The Author. 

 Tenison-Woods, Rev. J. E. Palfeontology of New Zealand. Part IV. Corals 



and Bryozoa of the Neozoic period of New Zealand. The Geological 



Survey. 

 Thomas, W. T. H. Lithograph of foot-prints of Brontozoum Thomasi. The 



Author. 

 Trafford, F. W. C. Souvenir de ramphiorama. The Author. 

 Trinius, D. C. B. Species Graminum. Fasc. 1-30. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Tryon, Geo. W. Jr. Manual of conchology. IV-XII. The Author. 

 University of Califorcia. College of Agriculture, report, 1880. The Author. 

 University of Minnesota. Calendar for 1880-'81. The University. 

 University of Wurzburg. Eleven chemical theses. The University. 

 United States Commissioner of Fish and Fisheries. Part VI. 



Report of the Commissioners for 1878. The Commission. 

 United States Entomological Commission. 2d report. Bulletin No. 6. De- 

 partment of Interior. 

 United States Geographical Survey west of the 100th mer. Report, Vol. VII. 



Archfeology. Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the Territories. V. 4, 



VI. 2. Department of the Interior. 

 Victoria. Mineral statistics for 1879, 1880. 



Report of Chief Inspector of Mines, 1879, 1880. 



Reports of Mining Surveyors and Registrars, 31st Dec, 1879; March 31, 



1881 ; June 30, 1880. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Villa, A. and G. B. Cenni geologici sul territori dell' Antico distretto di 



Oggiono. 

 Elenco cronologica di lavori scientifici. The Authors. 

 Vogdes, A. W. Anthropological contributions, 1 and 2. Paleontological con- 

 tributions, 1 and 2. The Author. 

 Vogt, C. Lehrbuch der Geologic und Petrefactenkunde. 4e Aufl. 2 Vols. 



Joseph Jeanes. 

 Walsingham, Lord. Lepidoptera heterocera in the British Museum. Part IV. 



Trustees of the Museum. 

 Watson, Rev. R. B. Molluscaof H. M. S. "Challenger" Expedition. Parts 



VI and VII. The Author. 

 Wesleyan Universiiy, Middletown, Conn., 9th annual report of curators. 



The Authors. 

 Westhof, Fr. Die Kiifer AVestfalens. I. Abth. Supplement. The Author. 

 Wheeler, C. F. and E. F. Smith. Phoenogamous and vascular cryptogamous 



plants of Michigan. The Authors. 

 Wex, Gustave. A lecture on the progress of the work of completion of the 



new and improved bed of the Danube at Vienna. Engineer Depart- 

 ment, U. S. A. 

 Wheeler, Geo. M. Annual report upon the geographical and topographical 



surveys of the tertitory of the U. S. west of the 100th mer. Appendix 



P^.'' Engineer Department, U. S. A. 

 Wolf, H. Regleitworte zur geologischen Gruben-Revier-Karte des Kohlen- 



beckens von Teplitz-aux-Brux., with 15 maps. Geological Survey of 



Bohemia. 

 Wortmann, J. Ueber die Beziehungen der intramolecularen zur normalen 



Athmung der Pflanzen. University of Wurzburg. 

 Wright, A. W. Gaseous substances contained in the smoky quartz of Branch- 



ville. G. W. Hawes. 

 Yale College. Catalogue, 1880-'81. The College. 

 Yarrel, Wm. A history of British birds. 4th Ed. Pt. 13. I.V.Williamson 



Fund. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 521 



Yarrow, H. C. Introduction to the study of mortuary customs among the 



North American Indians. The Author. 

 Zigno, Achille de. Cataloga ragionata dei Pesci fossile. 



Sireni fossili trovati nel Veneto. 



Uno Squalodonte scoperti nell arenaria miocena del Bellunese. 



Aggiunte alia Ittiologia dell' Epoca eocena. 



Pesci fossili nuovi del calcare eoceno dei Monti Bolca e postale. 



Sopra un nuovo Sirenio fossile scoperto nelle Colline di Bra in Piemonte. 



Flora fossilis formationis oolithicaj. Vols. 1 and 2. The Author. 

 Zittel, K. A. Geologischen Bau der libyschen Waste. Royal Bavarian Academy 



of Sciences. 

 Zoological Record for 1879. Wilson Fund. 



Journals and Periodicals. 



Adelaide. Royal Society. Transactions, 1879, 1880. The Society. 

 Altenburg. Mittheilungen aus dem Osterlande, n. f. ler Bd. The Editor. 

 American Association for the Advancement of Science. Programme of the 30th 



meeting. Proceedings, XXVIII, XXIX, 1 and 2. The Society. 

 American Medical Association. Transactions, I-XIII. Dr. Robert Bridges. 

 American Institute of Mining Engineers. Transac'ions, VII, VIII. The 



Society. 

 Amsterdam. K. Akademie van Wetenschappen. Verslagen en Mededeelingen, 

 Afd. Letterk. 2e R. VI D. 9. Afd. Natuurk. 2e R. XI D. 15. Jaarboek, 

 1879. Processen-Verbaal, 1880. Verhandlingen, Afd. Nat. XX; Afd. 

 Let. XIII. The Society. 

 Angers. Soci^te Academique de Maine et Loire. INI^moires, XXIII-XXVIII, 

 XXXV, 1-4. The Society. 

 Soci^te Nationale d'Agriculture, Sciences et Arts. Memoires, XXI. The 

 Society. 

 Auxerre. Soci^te des Sciences historiques et naturelles de I'Yonne. Bulletin 



XXXIV. The Society. 

 Baltimore. American Journal of IMathematics. II, l-III, 4. The Editor. 

 Johns Hopkins University. Studies from the Biological Laboratory, II, 

 1. Report, 4th. University circulars, 9 and 10. Register, 1880-81. 

 The Trustees. 

 Peabody Institute, 14th annual report. The Trustees. 

 Batavia. Genootschap van Kunsten en Wetenschappen. Aanteekeningen, 

 June, 1879. Verslag, June, 1880. Naamlijst, 1880. Registers, 1845- 

 1878. The Society. 

 Natuurkundig Vereen in Nederlandsch Indie. Tijdschrift, Svende Serie, 

 IX. The Society. 

 Belfast. Natural History and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, 1878-1880. 



The Society. 

 Berlin. Archiv fiir Naturgescbichte, 47er Jahrg. 1, 2, 4 and 5. The Editor. 

 Entomologische Verein. Zeitscbrift, 24 Jahrg., 2es a,nd 25er Jahrg., les 



H. The Society. 

 Deutsche geologische Gesellschaft. Zeitscbrift, XXXII, 2-XXXIII, 1. The 



Society. 

 Gesellschaft Naturforscbender Freunde. Sitzungs-Berichte, 1880. The 



Society. 

 K. Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften. Monatsbericht, Aug., 



1880-Juni, 1881. Physikalische Abhandlungen, 1879. The Society. 

 Linnaea. ler Bd. 1826.— XLIII, 1-4, 1881. Joseph Jeanes. 

 Der Naturforscher. XIII, 14-XlV. 26. The Editor. 

 Naturae Novitates, 1880, 9-1881, 20. The Editor. 

 Verein zur Beforderung des Gartenbaues. Monatsscbrift, 23er Jahrg. 



Jan.-Dec. The Society. 

 Zeitscbrift fiir die gesammtea Naturwissenscbaften, n. f. Ill, 5. The 

 Editor. 




522 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Bern. Natuvforschende Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, 979. The Society. 

 Beziers. Soci6t6 d'(;tude des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, 4e Annde. The 



Society. 

 Bistritz. Gewerbeschule. Jahresbericht 4 and 6. The Director. 

 Bloomington. Illinois Museum of Natural History. Bulletin No. 1. See 



Normal. The Director. 

 Bologna. Accademia delle Scjenze. Memorie, Ser. 3, T. IX, 8,4; X, 1-4. 



Kendiconti. 1878-79. The Society. 

 Bonn. Archiv fiir mikroskopische Anaiomie. XIX, 1-XX, 2. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 

 Naturhistorische Verein. Verhandlungen, 37er .Jahrg. l-38er Jahrg. 1. 

 The Society. 

 Bordeaux. Academic nationale des Sciences, etc. Actes, XXVIII, 2 ; XX, 3 ; 

 XXIII, 1 ; XXIV, 2; XXXI, 2; XLI. The Society. 

 Soci^t6 des Sciences physiques et naturelles. M^moires, 2e S^r. IV, 2. 

 The Society. 

 Boston. American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Proceedings, XVI, 1 and 

 • 2. The Society. 

 Progress of Science. I, 1. The Editor. 

 Science Observer, II, 7. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Proceedings, XX, p. 385-XXI, p. 128. 

 Anniversary Memoirs. Occasional Papers, III. The Society. 

 Braunschweig. Archiv fiir Anthropology, XIII, 1-3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Bremen. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Abhandlungen, VII, 1 and 2. The 



Society. 

 Bristol. Naturalists' Society. Proceedings, n. s. Ill, 1 and 2. Catalogue of 



Library, May, 1881. The Society. 

 Briinn. K. K. Mahrisch-Schlesische Gesellschaft zur Beforderung des 

 Ackerbaues der Natur- und Landeskunde. Mittheilungen, 59er and 

 60er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Naturforschende Verein. Verhandlungen, XVIII. The Society. 

 Bruxelles. Acad^mie Royale des Sciences, etc. Annuaire, 1879 and 1880. 

 Bulletin, 2me S6r. T. 45-49. Memoires, T. 42. Memoires couronnds, 

 8vo T. 28, 29 and 30; 4to T. 42 and 43. Tables, 1816-1878. The 

 Society. 

 Soci6t(5 Beige de Microscopic. Bulletin, 30 Oct. 1880-30 Juil. 1881. 



Annales, V. The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Malacologique. Annales, XII. Proces-Verbaux, 8 Jan. -2 Oct. 



1881. The Society. 

 Soci^t^ Entomologique. Comptes-Rendu, 1880. Annales, T. 23 and 24. 

 The Society. 

 Buda-Pest. M. Tudom. Acad^mia. Ertekez(^sek a Math. Tudomiinyok Korebol, 

 VII Kot^t, 3, 6-18 Szam ; IX, 20 Szam-X, 18 Szam. Math, es Termeszet. 

 Kcizlemenyek, XVI. Ungarische Revue, 1 and 2 H., 1881. The Society. 

 Ungarische National-Museum. Term6szetrajzi Fiizetek, IV, 3, 4; V, 1. 

 The Society. 

 Buffalo. Society of Natural Sciences. Bulletin, IV, 1. The Society. 

 Caen. Academic nationale des Sciences, etc. Memoires, Vol. suppl., 1879, 



1880. The Society. 

 Calcutta. Asiatic Society of Bengal. Journal, XLIX, Pt. 1, No. 3-L, Pt. 2, 

 No. 3. Proceedings, 1880, 1-1881, 8. The Society. 

 Same. Isaac Lea. 



Stray Feathers, IX, 1-4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Cambridge. Museum of Comparative Zoology. Memoirs, VIII, 1. Report, 

 1880-81. Bulletin V, 8, 9, 11, 12 and 14; VI, 12; VIII, 1-3 and pp. 

 95-284. The Director. 

 Nuttall Ornithological Club. Bulletin VI, 1-4. The Society. 

 Peabody Museum of American Archaeology and Ethnology, 14th annual 



report. The Director. 

 Psyche, Nos. 77-86. The Editor. 




1881.] ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY, 523 



Cap Rouge. Le Naturaliste Canadien. Nov. 1880-Oct. 1881. The Editor. 

 Cassel. Mal;ikozoologisclie Bllitter, IV. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht XXVIII. The Society. 

 Catania. Accademia Gioenia di Scienze Naturali. Atti, 3a Ser., T. 11 and 



12. The Society. 

 Cherbourg. Societe Nationale des Sciences Naturelles. Memoires, XXII. 



The Society. 

 Chicago. American Antiquarian, I, 3 ; II, 2 : III, 2-4. The Editor. 



National Scientific Journal, I. 3. The Editor. 

 Christiania. Archiv for Mathematik og Naturvidenskab, V, 4-VI, 2. I. V. 



Williamson Fund. 

 Chur. Naturforschende Gesellschaft Graubiindens, n. f. XXII and XXIV. The 



Society. 

 Cincinnati. Paleontologist, No. 5. The Editor. 



Society of Natural History. Journal, I, 3; 111,4; IV, 1-3. The Society. 

 Copenhagen. Videnskabelige Meddelelser, 1879-80, III. The Editor. 



Naturhistorisk Tidsskrift. Schiodte. Be Raekke, XII, 3. I. V. Williamson 



Fund. 

 K. D. Videnskabernes Selskab. Oversigt, 1880, 2-1881, 1. Skrifter, XII, 

 6; 6me Ser., I, 1 and 2. The Society. 

 Cordoba. Academia nacional de Ciencias esactas. Boletin II, 4; III, 1-3. 



The Society. 

 Crawfordsville. Botanical Gazette, IV, 11— VI, 1. The Editor. 

 Danzig. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Schriften, n. f. V, 1 and 2. The 



Society. 



Dijon. Academie des Sciences, etc. Memoirps, 3me Ser., 1880. The Society. 



Dorpat. Naturforscher Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, V, 3. Archiv fiir die 



Naturkunde Liv-Ehst- und Kurlands, le Ser. IX, 1 and 2. The Society. 



Dresden. K. Mineralogisch-Geologische und Praehistorische Museum. Mit- 



theilungen, 3es H. The Director. 



K. Sammlung fiir Kunst und Wissenschaft. Bericht, 1878-79. The 



Director. 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft Isis, Jan. -Dec. 1880. The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Jahresbericht XVII und Nacbtrag. The Society. 

 Dublin. Royal Geological Society of Ireland. Journal, XV, 3. The Society. 

 Royal Irish Academy. Proceedings, Science, III, Ser. 2, Nos. 4-6 ; Polite 

 Literature and Antiquities, II, Ser. 2, Nos. 1 and 2. Transactions, 

 Science, XXVI, 22, XXVIII, 1-5 ; Irish Mss. Series, I. 1 ; Cunningham 

 Memoirs, No. 1 ; Polite Literature and Antiquities, XXVII, 4. The 

 Society. 

 Edinburgh. Botanical Society. Transactions and Proceedings, XVI, 1. The 

 Society. 

 Geological Society. Transactions, IV, 1. The Society. 

 Royal Physical Society. Proceedings, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Royal Society. Proceedings, X, 105. Transactions, XXIX, 2. The 



Society. 

 Scottish Naturalist, Nos. 41-44. The Editor. 

 Erfurt. K. Akademie gemeinutziger Wissenschaften. Jahrbuch, n. f. , H. 10. 



The Society. 

 Erlangen. Biologische Centralblatt, I, 1. The Editor. 

 Florence. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano, XII, 4-XIII, 4. The Editor. 

 Frankfurt a. M. Aerztliche Verein. Jahresbericht XXIII. The Society. 



Deutsche Malakozoologische Gesellschaft. Jahrbucher, II, VII, VIII, 1- 



3. Nachrichtsblatt, 1881, No. 9, V, VI, XI-XIII. The Society. 

 Senckenbergische Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen, XII, 1 



and 2. Bericht, 1879-80. The Society. 

 Der Zoologische Garten, XXI, 1-12 Zoological Society of Frankfurt. 

 Gand. Archives de Biologic, I, 4. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




524 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Geneva. Scbvveizerisclie Palaeontologische Gesellschaf't. Abliandlungen, VII. 

 I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Society de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle. Momoires, XXVII. The 

 Society. 

 Genoa. Museo civico de Storia Naturale. Annili XV. The Society. 



Societa di Leiture e Conversazioni Scientifiche. Giornale, IV, 5-12. The 

 Society. 

 Germany. Gesellschaft Deutscher Naturforscher und Arzte. Tageblatt, 53 



Versamm. The Society. 

 Giessen. Jahresbericht iiber die Fortschritte der Chemie. 1879, 2es 11-1880, 

 les H. The Editor. 

 Oberhessische Gesellschaft fiir Natur- und Heilkunde, 19er Bericht. The 

 Society. 

 Glasgow. Natural History Society. Proceedings, IV, 2. The Society. 



Philosophical Society. Proceedings, XII, 1. The Society. 

 Gorlitz. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen XVI. The Society. 

 Gottingen, K. Gesellschaft der VVissenschaften. Nachrichten, 1880. The So- 

 ciety. 

 Qrand Rapids. Kent Scientific Institute. Miscellaneous publications, No. 2, 



3, and 5. The Society. 

 Graz. Naturwissenschaftliche Verein fiir Steiermark. 

 Mittheilungen. .. Jahrg, 1879 and 1880. The Society. 

 Verein der Arzte in Steiermark. Mittheilungen 1880. The Society. 

 Guadalajara. Sociedad de Ingenieros de Jalisco. Boletin I. 2-10. The 



Society. 

 Halifax. Nova Scotian Institute of Natural Science. Proceedings and Trans- 

 actions, V. 2. The Society. 

 Halle. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Abhandlungen XV. 1. Bericht, 1879. 

 The Society. 

 Verein fiir Erdkunde. Mittheilungen 1877-1880. The Society, 

 Naturwissenschaftliche Verein. Verhandlungen, n. f. V. The Society. 

 Hannover. Gesellschaft fiir die Mikroskopie. Jahresbericht, ler. The- 

 Society. 

 Naturhistorische Gesellschaft. 20er and oOer Jahresb. The Society. 

 Haarlem. Mus^e Teyler. Archives, 2e. Ser., Ire. Partie. The Director. 



Soci6t^ Hollandaise des Sciences. Archives XV. 3-XVI. 2. The Society. 

 Hobart Town. Royal Society of Tasmania. Proceedings, 1879. The Society. 

 Innsbruck. Ferdinandlum. Zeitschrift. 3e Folge, 24es and 25es H. The 



Director. 

 Jena. Medicinisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Zeitschrift, XIV. 3- 



XV. 2. The Society. 

 Kansas City Review of Science and Industry, Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. The 



Editor. 

 Klagenfurt. Landesmuseum von Kilrnten. Jahrbuch XIV. The Director. 

 Konigsberg. Physikalisch-okonomische Gesellschaft. Schriften XVIII. 2; 



XIX. 1 aid 2; XX. 1, 2; XXI. 1. The Society. 

 Lausanne. Societe Ilelvetique des Sciences Naturelles, Actes, 63e Ses. The 

 Society. 

 Societe Vaudoise des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin Nos. 83 and 84. The 

 Society. 

 Leeds, Philosophical and Literary Society. Reports 1879-'80, 1880-'81. The 



Society. < 



Leipzig. Archiv fiir Anatomie und Physiologie. Anatomische Abth. 1880, 

 1 H-1881, 5 H. Physiologische Abth. 1880, 6 H.-1881, 5 H.; Suppl. 

 Bd. 1880. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Botanische Centralblatt. Register 1880. The Editor. 

 Botanische Institut zii Tubingen, Untersuchungen I, 1. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



J 




1881.] 



ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. 525 



Botanische Jahrbiicher, I. 4-II. 3. I. V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Flirstlich Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft. Jahresbericht, 1881. The 

 Society. 



Jahrbucher fiir Wissenschaftlische Botaaik. XII. 3 and 4. I. V. William- 

 son Fund. 



Journal fiir Ornithologie. XXVIII. 2; XXIX. 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



K. Siichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften. Abhandlungen. XII. 2a, 5 

 and 6. Berichte. 1880. 1 and 2. The Society. 



Mnrphologisches .Jahrbuch. VI. 4-VlI. 2. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Sitzungsberichte, 1879 ; 1880, 1 and 2. 

 The Society. 



Zeitschrift fiir Krystallograpie und Mineralogie. V. 2-VI. 2. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Zeitschrift fur Wissenschaftliche Zoologie. XXXV. 1-XXXVI. 2. I. V. 

 Williamson Fund. 



Zoologischer Anzeiger, 69-96. The Editor. 

 Lisbon. Associacao dos Engenheiros civis Portuguezis. Revista Nos. 122- 



124, 129-142. The Society. 

 Liverpool. Free Public Library, Museum and Walker Art Gallery, 28th an- 

 nual report. The Trustees. 



Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos. 33 and^4. The 

 Society. 

 London. Annals and Magazine of Natural History. Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. 

 V. AVilliamson Fund. 



Astronomical Register, Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Chemists' Journal. III. 6-5. The Editor. 



Curtis's Botanical Magazine. Nos. 1126-1137. I.V.Williamson Fund. 



Electrician. VII. 14, 20-26. The Editor. 



Entomological Society. Transactions, 1880. The Society. 



Gardener's Chronicle. Nos. 360-411. The Editor. 



Geological .\'agazine. Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Geological Society. Quarterly Journal, No. 144—147 ; List, 1881 and Cata- 

 logue of Library. The Society. 



Hardwicke's Science Gossip, Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ibis. Oct. 1880-July 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, XV. 2-XVI. 1. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Journal of Botany. Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Journal of Conchology. II. 1-12; III. 2, 8. The Editor. 



Journal of Physiology. III. 1, 2 and Supplement. I. V. Williamson 

 Fund. 



Journal of Science. Dec. 1880-Nov. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 *Linnean Society. Journal, Botany, Nos. 103-107; Zoology, Nos. 80-83. 

 Transactions, Botany I. 7-9 ; Zoology II. 1. List, 1879. The Society. 



London, Edinburgh and Dublin Philosophical Magazine. Dec. 1880-Nov. 

 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Mineralogical Mag- 

 azine I. 19, 20. The Society. 



Nature. Nos. 577-628. The Editor. 



Notes and Queries. Nov. 1880-Oct. 1881. The Editor. 



Popular Science Review. Jan-Oct. 1881. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Quarterly* Journal of Microscopical Science. Jan. -Oct. 1881. I. V. Wil- 

 liamson Fund. 



Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Journal, XII. 4-XIII. 

 3. The Society. 



Royal Geographical Society. Proceedings, n. s. II. 9-III. 8. Journal, 

 Vols. 49 and 50 ; Index Catalogue of Library. The Society. 



Royal Institution of Great Britain. Proceedings, IX. 3 and List. The 

 Society. 




526 ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY. [1881. 



Royal Microscopical Society. Journal, III. 6 -Ser. 2, I. 1-5. The Society, 

 lloyal Society. Proceedings Nos. l'J7-205. Philosophical Transactions. 



Vols 171 and 17:^. The Society. 

 Society of Arts. Journal, Vol. 28. The Society. 

 Triibner's American and Oriental Literary Record. Nos. 155-160. The 



Publi>hers. 

 Zoological Society. Proceedings, 1880, No. 8-1881, No. 2. Transactions, 



XL 3-5. The Society. 

 Zoologist. Dec. 1881-Nov. 1882. L V. Williamson Fund. 

 London, Ca. Canadian Entomologist, XII. 11-XllI. 11. The Editor. 

 Louvain. University Catiiolique. Annuaire, 45me Annue. Sixteen Theses. 



Bibliographie Academique, 1880. The University. 

 Liibeck. Naturhistorische Museum. Jahresbericht, 1880. The Society. 

 Luxembourg. Institut Royal. Publications, T. 18. The Society. 

 Lyon. Academic des Sciences etc. Memoires. Classe des Sciences, XXIV. 

 Classe des LettVes, XIX. The Society. 

 Lyon Scientifique et Industrie!, 2e An. Nos. 5-8. Dr. F. V. Hayden. 

 Soci<it6 d' Agriculture etc. Annales, 5me Ser., II. The Society. 

 Societe Linneetine. Annales, n. s. T. 28. The Society. 

 Madrid. .Memorial de Ingenieros. An. 35. No. 22- An. 36, No. 21. The 



Editor. 

 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Vols. 16-19. 



Memoirs, VI. The Society. 

 Metz. Sociote d'Histoire Naturelle. Bulletin, 2e Ser., 13er and 14er Cah. 



The Society. 

 Mexico. Ministerio de Fomento. Anales, III, IV. Boletin, 1881. Depart- 

 ment of Works, Mexico. 

 Museo Nacional. Anales, II. 3, 4. The Director. 

 Revista cientilica Mexicana, I. 12-16. The Editor. 

 Sociedad de Geogratia y Esfadistica de la Republica Mexicana. Boletin, 



3a Ep. V. 1-11. The Society. 

 Sociedad Mexicana de Historia Natural. La Naturaleza, IV. 21-V. 8. 

 The Society. 

 Middletown, Scientific Association. Occasional Papers, I. The Society. 



Wesleyan University Museum. 10th annual report. The Curator. 

 Milan. R. Istituto Lombardo di Scienze e Lettere. Rendiconti, Ser. 2a, XI 

 and XII. Meraoire XIV. 2. The Society. 

 Regio Istituto tecbnico superiore. Relazione del Viaggio d'Istruzione. 

 Programma 1880-81. The Society. 

 Milwaukee. Naturhistorische Verein. Jahresbericht, 1870-1874, 1880-81. 

 Mons. Societe des Sciences, etc., du Hainaut. Memoirs, 4e Ser., T. 4me. 



The Society. 

 Montpellier. Academic des Sciences et Lettres. Memoires, Section des Sciences, 



IX. 3; X. 1. Section de Medicine, V. 2. The Society. 

 Montreal. Annuaire de Ville- Marie, I. 2. M. Huguet-Latour. 

 Canadian Naturalist, IX. 7 and 8 ; X. 1. The Editor. 

 Numismatic and Antiquarian Society. Canadian Antiquarian, IX. 3 and 

 4; X. 2. The Society. 

 Moscow. Society Imp^riale des Naturalistes. Bulletin, 1879, No. 2 ; 1880, 



No. 4. The Society. 

 Munich. Gesellschaft fiir Anthropologic, Ethnologie und Urgeschichte. Bei- 

 triige, IV. 1-3. The Society. 

 K. Sternwarte. Beobachtungen, 1880. The Director. 

 K. B. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte der math. phys. 

 Classe 1880, No. 3-1881, No. 1. Abhandlung, historische Classe, XV. 2, 

 3 ; philos-philol. Classee XV. 1-3 ; mathem-physikal. Classe, XIII. 

 3. Tne Society. 

 MUnster. Westfalischen Provinzial-Verein fiir Wissenschaft und Kunst. 

 Jahresbericht, Ser and 9er. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 527 



Nancy. Society des Sciences. Bulletin, Ser. 2. T. III. 10-12. The Soeiety. 

 Naples. R. Istituto dlncoraggiamento alle Scienze naturali, economiche e 



technologische. Atti, XV. XVII. The Society. 

 Neubrandenburg. Verein der Freunde der Naturgeschichte in Mecklenburg. 



Archiv, 33er and 34er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Neuchatel. Societe des Sciences Naturelles. Bulletin, XII. 1. The Society. 

 Newcastle-upon-Tyne. North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical 



Engineers. Transactions, General Index, Vols. 1-25. The Society. 

 New Haven. American Journal of Science, Dec, 1880-Nov. 1881. The 

 Editor. 

 Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences. Memoirs, I. 3 and 4. The 



Society. 

 Yale College. SchefReld Scientific School. Annual Reports, 2-11. Cat- 

 alogue, 1881-82. The Trustees. 

 New Vork. Academy of Sciences. Annals, II. 1-6. Transactions, 1881-82. 

 The Society. 

 American Chemical Society. Journal, II. 8, The Society. 

 American Geographical Society. Bulletin, 1880, No. 2-1881, No. 1. The 



Society. 

 American Journal of Microscopy. V. 11-VI. 8. The Editor. 

 American Monthly Microscopical Journal, II, 1-10. The Editor. 

 American Museum of Natural History. 2d, 9th and 12th annual reports. 



The Trustees. 

 Forest and Stream. XV. 18-XVII. 17. The Editor. 

 Index Medicus. II. 12 and Index. Wm. S. Vaux. 

 Journal of Comparative Medicine and Surgery. II. 1, 3 and 4. The 



Editor. 

 Library Journal. V. 11-VI. 10. I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Lyceum of Natural History. Annals, X. 12, 13, XI. 7 and 8. Proceed- 

 ings, I. pp. 237, June 1, 1874. The Society. 

 Monthly Index to current periodical literature. II. l-III. 5. 

 New York Medical Eclectic, Nov. 1880,-Sept. 1881. The Editor. 

 New York Medical Journal, XXXII. 12-XXXIV. 5. The Editor. 

 Papilio, I. 9.. The Editor. 



Popular Science Monthly. Jan -Dec. 1881. The Editor. 

 Science. Nos. 23-74. The Editor. 

 The Sea World. IIL 9. The Editor. 



Torrey Botanical Club. Bulletin, VII. 11-VIII. 11. The Society. 

 Normal. Illinois State Laboratory of Natural History. Bulletin, Nos. 2 and 



3. The Director. 

 Offenbach am Main. Verein fiir Naturkunde. Bericht, 19er-21er. The 



Society. 

 Orleans. Societe d' Agriculture, Sciences, etc. Memoires, XXI. 4. The 



Society. 

 Palermo. II Naturalista Siciliano, Anno I. 1. The Editor. 

 Paris. Academic des Sciences. Comptes Rendus, Vol. 90. The Society. 



Annales des Mines. 7me Ser. XVII. 5-XIX. 3. Minister of Public Works, 



France. 

 Annales de philosophie chretienne, 51e annee. The Editor. 

 Annales des Sciences Geologique, XI. 3-6, title etc. The Editor- 

 Annales des Sciences Naturelles. Zoologie et Paleontologie, X. 1-XI, 4. 



Botanique. X. 2-XI. 6- I. V. Williamson Fund. 

 Archives de Zoologie, experimentale et generale. 1880, No. 4-1881, 2. 

 , I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Ecole polytechnique. Journal, T. 29me. The Director. 

 Journal de Conchyliologie, XX. 4-XXI. 2. The Editor. 

 Journal de Micrographie, 5me Annee. Nos^ 1-5. The Editor. 



35 




528 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Museum d'Historie Naturelle. Nouvelles Archives, 2meSer. III. 1 and 2. 



Rapports, 1880. The Directors. 

 Revue Internationale des Sciences. 3e Ann6e ll-4e Ann^e 10. The 



Editor. , 



Revue Scientifique de la France et de I'Etranger. lOme, An. 21-T. 28, 



No. 20. . The Editor. 

 Soci6t6 d'Acclimatation. Bulletin, Sept. 1880-Aout. 1881. The Society. 

 Soci^te Botanique de France. Bulletin, T. 27. Comptes Rendus, 4-6, 

 Ses. Ext. a Aurillac, eta Bayonne. Rev. Bibl., A-E. Index etc. T. 28. 

 Comptes Rendus, 1-3. The Society. 

 Soci6t6 Entomologique de France. Annales, X. 1-4. The Society. 

 Soci6t6 Geologique de France. Bulletin, VIII. Feuille, 18-IX. 5. The 



Society. 

 Soci^t(3 Mineralogique de France. Bulletin, I, -IV. 5. The Society. 

 Soci^tg Nationale d' Agriculture de France. Bulletin, 1880, No. 7-1881, 



No. 7. The Society. 

 Soci^t6 Zoologique. Bulletin, 1880, 1-1881, 2. The Society. 

 Penzance. Royal Geological Society of Cornwall. Transactions, IX ; Index, 



X, 1, 2 and 3. The Society. 

 Philadelphia. The American, I, 18; III, 66-68. The Editor. 



Am. Entomological Society. Transactions, VIII, 3-IX, 1. Proceedings, 



Jan., 1881. Entomological Section of the Academy. 

 Am. Journal of Medical Science, Jan.-Oct., 1881. The Editor. 

 Am. Journal of Pharmacy, Dec, 1880-Nov., 1881. The Editor. 

 Am. Naturalist, Jan. -Nov , 1881. The Editor. 

 Am. Pharmaceutical Association. Proceedings, 28th annual meeting. 



The Society. 

 Am. Philosophical Society. Proceedings, Nos, 107 and 108. Transactions, 



XV, 3. The Society. 

 The Dental Cosmos, Dec, 1880-Nov., 1881. The Editor. 

 Franklin Institute. Journal, Dec, 1880-Nov., 1881. The Society, 

 Gardener's Monthly, Dec, 1880-Nov., 1881. The Editor. 

 Historical Society of Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania Magazine, IV, 4-V, 3. 



The Society. 

 Medical News and Abstract, Nos. 4-57-467. The Editor. 

 Naturalists' Leisure Hour, Dec, 1880-Sept., 1881. The Editor. 

 Stoddart's Review, Nos. 20-30. The Editor. 

 Zoological Society. Annual report, 9th. The Society, 

 Pisa. Nuovo Giornale Botanico Italiano, XII, 4-XIII, 1. 

 Societa Malacologia Italiano. BuUetino, IV, 21-VI, 18. 

 Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali. Adunanza, 14 Nov., 1880-8 May, 

 1881. Memorie, IV, 2. The Society. 

 Portland. Society of Natural History. Proceedings, 13th meeting. The 



Society. 

 Poughkeepsie. Society of Natural Sciences. Proceedings, Oct. 1, 1879-July 



1, 1880. The Society, 

 Prag. K. B. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, Sitzungsberichte, 1879, 1880. 



Jahresbericht, 1879, 1880. Abhandlungen, lOer Bd. The Society. 

 Princeton. E. M. Museum of Geology and Archaeology of the College of New 



Jersey. Contributions, I, 1. The Director. 

 Quebec. Literary and Historical Society. Sessions of 1880-81. The Society. 

 Regensburg. K. B. Botanische Gesellschaft. Flora, 38er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Zoologisch-mineralogische Verein, Correspondenz-Blatt, 34er Jahrg. The 

 Society. 

 Rochester, Academy of Sciences, Catalogue of exhibits, June 20, 1881. The 

 Society. 

 Ward's Natural Science Bulletin, I, 1, The Editor, 

 Rome. R. Accademia dei Lincei. Atti, V, 1-14. The Society. 




ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 529 



Rotterdam. Soci6t^ Batave de Philosophie exp(5rimentale. Programme, 1880. 



The Society. 

 St. Gallen. Naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Bericht, 1878, 1879. The 



Society. 

 St. Louis. The Valley Naturalist, II, 1-4. The Editor. 



St. Petersburg. K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Repertorium fiir M<;teor- 

 ologie, Bd. VII, 1, and supplement. Band II, with folio atlas. M^m- 

 oires, XXVII, 5-XXVIII, 2. Bulletin, XXVI, 2-XXVII, 2. The 

 Society. 

 Hortus Petropolitanus. Acta VII, 1. The Society. 

 Physikalische Observatorium. Annalen, 1879, 1 and 2. The Director. 

 Salem. Essex Institute. Bulletin, XII, 7-XIII, 9. The Society. 



Peabody Academy of Sciences^ Memoirs, I, 5 and 6. The Society. 

 San Francisco. California Academy of Sciences. Proceedings, Dec. 6, 1880 



and June 6, 1881. Memoirs, I, 2. The Society. 

 Santiago de Chile. Universidad de Chile. Anales, le Sec. Julio, 1879-Junio, 



1880; 2e Sec. Feb., 1879-Junio, 1880. The University. 

 Staunton. The Virginias, I, 11-11, 10. The Editor. 

 Stettin. Entomologische Verein. Zeitung, Jahrg , 41. The Society. 

 Stockholm. Entomologisk Tidskrift, I, 8 and 4. The Editor. 

 Stuttgart. Kosmos, V, 1-7. I. V. Williamson Fund. 



Neues Jahrbuch fiir Mineralogie, Geologie und Palaeontologie, 1880, II, 



2-1881,11,2. The Editor. 

 Verein fiir vaterlandische Naturkunde in WUrttemberg. Jahreshefte, 

 37er Jahrg. The Society. 

 Sydney. Linnean Society of New South Wales. Proceedings, V, VI, 1 and 2. 

 The Society. 

 Royal Society of New South Wales. Journal and Proceedings, Vol. XIII. 

 The Society. 

 Topeka. Kansas Academy of Sciences. Transactions, VII. The Society. 

 Turin. Accademia Reale delle Scienze, Atti XIII, 1-8 ; XIV, 1-7 ; XV, 1-8 ; 

 XVI, 1-4. Memoria, Ser. 2a, T. 29-33. The Society. 

 Regio Osservatorio della Regia Universita. Bulletino, Anni 12-14. The 

 Director. 

 Toronto. Entomological Society. Annual report, 1880. The Society. 

 Toulouse. Acad^mie des Sciences, etc. Memoires, II, 2^ The Society. 

 Trieste. Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali. Bollettina, VI, 1. The 



Society. 

 Tromso. Museum. Aarshefter III. The Director. 

 Throndhjem. K. N. Videnskabers Selskab. Skrifter 1S78, 1879, The 



Society. 

 Utrecht. K. Nederlandsch Meteorologisch Instituut. Jaarboek, 1880. The 



Director. 

 Venice. R. Instituto Veneto di Scienze. Lettere ed Arti. Atti, III, 8; IV ; V, 



1, 2, 4-10 ; VI, 1-9. The Society. 

 Vienna. Anthropologische Gesellschaft. Mittheilungen, X, 8-12. The 

 Society. 

 K. Akademie der Wissenschaften. Sitzungsberichte, Mathem.-naturw. 

 Classe. Bd. 79, I, 1-Bd. 88, III, 2. Register, 1876-80. Denkschriften, 

 Bd. 31, 40 and 42. The Society. 

 K. K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Jahrbuch, 1880, 4-1881, 1. Verhand- 



lungen, 1880, 12-1881, 7. The Director. 

 K. K. Zoologisch-botanische Gesellschaft. Verhandlungen, XXX. The 



Society. 

 Osterreichische Gesellschaft fiir Meteorologie. Zeitschrift, XV. Dr. F. 



V. Hayden. 

 Verein zur Verbreitung naturw. Kenntnisse. Schriften, XXI. The 



Society. 

 Wiener lUustrirte Garten-Zeitung, 1880, No. 8-1881, No. 9. The Editor. 

 Zoologische Institut. Arbeiten, III, 2, 3. I. V. Williamson Fund. 




530 ADDITIONS TO LIBRARY. 



Washington. Anthropological Society. Abstract of Transactions, 1st year. 



The Society. 

 Philosophical Society. Bulletin, I-TII. The Society. 

 United States National Museum. Proceedings, 1881, pp. 1-208. Depart- 

 ment of the Interior. 

 Wellington, New Zealand Institute. Transactions, XIII. The Society. 

 Wiesbaden, Nassauische Verein fiir Naturkunde. .Jahrbucher XXXI and 



XXXII. The Society. 

 Worcester. American Antiquarian Society. Proceedings, n. s. I, 1 and 2. 



The Society. 

 Wiirzburg. Physikalisch-medicinische Qesellschaft. Verhandlungen, n. f. 



XV, 1-4. The Society. 

 Yokohoma. Asiatic Society of Japan. Transactions, VI, 3; VII, '2, 3; 30th 



Oct., 187.--9th Oct., 1873. The Society. 

 Seismological Society of .Japan. I. Rev. Dr. Syle. 

 Zurich. Naturforschende Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrsschrift XXIV, XXV. The 



Society. 




INDEX TO GENERA. 



531 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



1881. 



Abacocrinus 307 



Abracrinus 397 



Acanthocrinus 397 



Acniffia 87 



Acrosoma 431 



Actinometra 198 



Actinocrinus 179,188, 199, 201, 312, 879 



Adelocri,nus 231 



Agaricocrinus 190, 193, 201, 283, 402 



Albulii 114 



AUageci-inus 177 



Allopagus 424 



Alloprosallocrinus 193,287, 402 



Alnus 455 



Amblacrinus 402 



Ammophila 454 



Ampelopsis 442 



Amphoracrinus 187, 190, 198, 325, 402 



Antedon 212 



Antennarius 113, 116 



Anthemocrinus 382 



Apbyllon 161 



Apodicbtbys 114, 119 



Area 448 



Arcella 9, 10 



Arceutbobium 439 



Arcbaeocrinus 187, 363 



Argyreiosus 114 



Asparagus 112 



Aspidocrinus 402 



Aster 454 



Asterocrinus 402 



Astrocrinites — 402 



Astropodia 403 



Atberinopsis 114 



Atocrinus 231 



Atriplex 454 



Atta 67 



Balanocrinus 403 



Batocrinus 185,190,192, 201, 336, 403 



Belemnocrinus 178 



Betula 455 



Bigtionia 442 



Bracbiocrinus 403 



Branchiostoma 114 



Briarocrinus 270 



Bucardia _ 426 



Bulla 208 



Cacabocrinus 403 



Caelocrinus 403 



Calatbocri nus 403 



Campodea 82, 85 



Camponotus 60 



Carinifex 108 



Carpocrinus 279 



Carterella 150, 176, 460, 463 



Castanea 455 



Castanocrinus 403 



Centrocrinus 278 408 



Centropomas 114 



Cestracion 114 



Cbama 427 



Choanopoma 15 



Cboeropsis 128 



Clinus 114 



Clonocrinus 408 



Coccocrinus 191, 204, 232 



Codonites. 192 



Coeliocrinus 197 



CoUembola 83' 



Comatula 191 



Condylocrinus 394, 403 



Conocrinites 403 



Copbinus 403 



Cordylocrinus 234 



Cornus 459 



Coron ocrinus 403 



Cotinus 125 



Cotyledonocrinus 251 



Crassatella 445 




532 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Cratajgus 455, 466 



Cremnobates 113, 116 



Cristatella 461 



Crotalocrinus 231 



CrumeojEcrinites 404 



Cryptodon 423 



Ctenocrinus 404 



Ctenopoma 16 



CucuUtea 445, 448 



Culicocrinus 190, 235 



Cupellnecrinus 404 



Cupulorcrinus 395 



Cyathocriaus 191, 203, 404 



Cylindrella 15 



Cynips 28 



Cynoscion 114 



Cystocrinus 404 



Oytocrinus 404 



Dffimonocrinites 404 



Decadactylocrinites 404 



Delphinus 137 



Desmidoerinus 282 



Dichocrinus 182, 187, 255, 404 



Diceras 425 



Difflugia 9, 10 



Dimerocrinus 371, 405 



Dimorphocrinus 240, 405 



Diodon 113 



Dolatocrinus 298 



Doliolocrinus 405 



Donacicrinites 405 



Dorycrinus 187, 190, 201, 350 



Draba 89, 161 



Echinus 405 



Edwardsocrinus 199, 405 



Epeira 163, 432 



Epiphegus 161 



Eretmocrinus 185, 201, 344 



Erisocrinus 196 197 



Eucladocrinus 194, 250 



Eucalyptocrinus 405 



Eucrinus 187, 370, 405 



Eugeniacrinites 405 



Eumetopias 113 



Eupachycrinus 196, 197 



Felsinotherium 147 



Forbesiocrinus 179, 405 



Formica 50, 67 



Fraxinus 455 



Freia 443 



Fritillaria Ill 



Gennfeocrinus 334 



Geocrinus 405 



Geophilus 82, 84 



Gil bertsocrinus 406 



Gillichthys 114 



Girella 114 



Gissocrinus 178 



Glosterocrinus 405 



Glyptaster 187, 367 



G!yptocrinus....l81, 187, 198, 359, 405 



Gobiesox 114 



Goniasteroidocrinus 406 



Granafocrinus 203 



Graphiocrinus 179 



Habrocrinus 406 



Hadrocrinus 396 



Halesia 459 



Halitherium 147 



Haplocrinus 231 



Harmocrinus 406 



Helix 95 



Hemiramphus 120 



Heterodontus 114 



Heteromeyenia 150, 461, 463 



Hexacrinus 182, 187, 252, 406 



Hieracium 429 



Hippagus 428 



Hippopotamus 126, 128 



Hydreionoorinus 196, 197 



Hyocrinus 191, 205 



Hypentelium 9 



Hypleurochilus 113 



Hyptiotes 168 



Ichthyocrinus 179 



Ichtodes 175 



IcosidactylocriHites 406 



Iphigenia 425 



laidora 98 



Isocardia 423 



Japyx 85 



Juniperus 440 



Lamium 90 



Lampterocrinus 373 



Latiarca 445 



Lecanocrinus 179 



Lecythocrinus 178 



Lepisma 82 



Lepismina 85 



Libocedrus 440 



Licnophora 448 



Limnsea 93 



Lithobius 82, 84 




INDEX TO GEXERA. 



533 



Lophiodon 148 



Lyniphia 175 



Lyonsiella 427 



Lyriocrinus 377, 406 



MachUis 81 



Macropus 468 



Macrostylocrinus 276, 407 



Magnolia 4-59 



Margaritophora 116 



Mariacrinus 181, 288, 407 



Marisa 1 93 



Marsupiocrinus 231, 236, 407 



Medusacrinus 407 



Megistocrma3..190, 198, 210, 309, 407 



Melocrinus 182, 292, 407 



Menticirrus 114 



Mespilocrinus 179 



Meyenia 149, 462, 463 



Micrococcus 438 



Microdesmus 114, 120 



Morunga 113 



Mustelus 114 



Myrmecocystus 17, 64, 69 



Myrmica 62 



Mytilus 88 



Mvxostoma 9 



Myxus 114 



Nacella 88 



Kicoletia 85 



Ollacrinus 210, 387 



Ophiocrinus 407 



Orca 113 



Ornithorynchus 471 



Ostrea 155, 158, 445 



Paludina 95 



Panopea 445 



Paralabrax 114 



Patelliocrinus 274 



Pecchiolia 424 



Pecten 158, 416 



Pectinat ella 461 



Pentacrinus ..~ 204 



Pentagonites 407 



Pentremiies 240 



Periechocrinus 182, 198, 301, 407 



Phillipsocrinus 407 



Phillyra 175 



Phcenicocrinus 408 



Pholadomva 445 



Pholas ....' 445 



PhoUdichthys 113, 118 



Phoradendron 439 



Phyllospora 88 



Physa 93 



Phvsella 95 



Phypetocrinus 187, 193, 201, 829 



Pilobolus 464 



Pimelometopon 114 



Pinus 440 



Pionocrinus 408 



Planorbis 92 



Plantago _... 424 



Platycrinus...- 182, 188, 239, 408 



Pleurocrinus 409 



Pogonomyrmex 20 



Polydesmus 86 



Palyergus 67 



Polygonum 4-54 



Pomatocrinus 409 



Pompholyx 92 



Poteriocrinus 197 



Pradocrinus 409 



Pristipoma 114 



Prorastomus 148 



Pterotocrinus 229, 261, 409 



Pyxidocrinus 188, 409 



Qyiercus 20, 24, 121, 123, 455 



Reteocrinus „ 187, 210, 365 



Rhipiododendron 443 



Rhodocrinus 179, 188, 383, 410 



Rhus 125 



Ripidocrinus 379 



Robinia 456 



Saccocrinu3 410 



Sagenocrinu3 375, 410 



Salicornia 454 



SaUx 90, 442 



Salsola 454 



Sarcodes 161 



Schizocrinus 394, 410 



Scolopendrella 79, 84 



Scutella 158 



Scyphocrinus 297, 410 



Stereocrinus 300 



Selene 114 



Semicossyphus 114 



Serranus 114 



Spams 114 



Spartina 454 



Sphserocrinms 410 



Sphyrjena 114 



Sphyrna 114 



Spondylu3 155, 158 



Spongiophaga 460 




534 



INDEX TO GENERA. 



Spongilla 149, 461, 463 



Statice 4o4 



Steganoci'inus 187-323 



Stelidiocrinus 272 



Strix 433 



Strotocrinus 187-332 



Suaeda 4')4 



Symbathocrinus 191, 2U 



Syniplocarpus 175 



Syringocrinus 411 



Talarocrinus 259 



Talinum 161 



Taxocrinus 179. 411 



Tecliiidcrinus 290, 41 1 



T egena ri a 175 



Teleiocrinus 201, 206, 320 



Tetrodon 113, 114 



Tetragnatha 175, 431 



Tetrainerocrinites 41 1 



Thylacocrinus 381 



Thys-anocriwus 411 



Tintinnus 443 



Trachurus 114 



Tracliyiiotus 114 



Trematocrinu? 41 1 



Triads 114 



Triacrinus 191 



Ti-igoiiia 425 



Triplaricrinites 41 1 



Trocb icrin i t es 411 



Try bliocri tins 411 



Turbinocrinus 411 



Ulmus 455 



Verticordia '. 423 



Viscum 440 



Vorticifex 109 



Zaiophus 137 



Zeuglodon 152 



Zonites 95 



Zoothamnia 443 




INDEX. 



535 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Additions to Library, 511. 



Additions to Museum, 506 



Arango, R. Description of new Spe- 

 cies of Terrestrial MoUusca of Cuba, 

 10, 15. 



Brock, J. P. Announcement of death 

 of. 162. 



Bryan, Col. T. M. Announcement of 

 death of, 87 



Buckley, S. B. Quercus rubra L., var. 

 Texana, 111, 123; Quercus Durandii, 

 111, 121 ; Rhus cotinoides. 111, 125. 



By-laws. Amendment to Art. 3, Chap. 

 XV., 443. 



Chapman, Dr. H C. Resignation as 

 member of Council, 91 ; Observa- 

 tions on the Hippotamus, 112, 126 ; 

 On a foetal Kangaroo and its Mem- 

 branes, 459, 468. 



Chaudoir, M. de. Announcement of 

 death of, 145. 



Clay, Jos. A. Announcement of death 

 of, 87. 



Coates, B. H. Announcement of death 

 of, 439. 



Elections during 1881, 505. 



Gould, .John. Announcement of death 

 of, 87. 



Hart, Dr. H. C. Announcement of 

 death of, 14. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Delivery of introduc- 

 tory lecture, 78; Notes on the Ter- 

 tiary Geology of the Southern United 

 States, 149, 151 ; Revision of the 

 Cis-Mississippi tertiary Pectens of 

 the United States, 176, 416 ; Remarks 

 on the MoUuscan genera, Hippagus, 

 Verticordiaand Pecchiola, 415. 428 ; 

 Note on the approximate Position 

 of the Eocene Deposits of Maryland, 

 429, 444 ; Revision of the Tertiary 

 Species of Area of the Eastern and 

 Southern United States, 439, 448. 

 Report of Professor of Invertebrate 

 Palaeontology, 498. 



Hemphill, H. On the variations of 

 AcmfBa pelta E'^ch, 87. 



Henszey, W. C. Report of Treasurer, 

 502. 



He^-s, R. J. Report of Biological and 

 Microscopical Section, 490. 



Horn, Geo. H. Report of Correspond- 

 ing Secretary, 486.. 



Humphrey, Rev. Z. M. Announce- 

 ment of death of, 459. 



Index to Genera, 535. 



Jessup, A. E. Announcement of death 

 of. 162. 



Kilvington, R. Announcement of 

 death of, 415. 



Koenig, G. A. Election as Member of 

 Council, 111. 



Leidy, Jos. Rhizopods as food for 

 young fishes, 9 ; Report of Curators, 

 489. 



Lewis, H. C. Delivery of introductory 

 lecture, 78; Report of Professor of 

 Mineralogy, 499. 



Lewis, Dr. .Jas. Announcement of 

 death of. 111. 



Library, additions to, 511. 



Lockington, W. N. List of fishes col- 

 lected by Mr. W. J. Fisher, upon the 

 Coast of Lower California, 1876-77, 

 with descriptions of new Species, 89; 

 113 



Lovering, Jos. S. Announcement of 

 death of. 111. 



McCook, Rev. H. C. The Honey-Ants 

 of the Garden of the Gods, 14, 17 ; 

 The Snare of the Ray Spider, Epeira 

 Radiosa, anew form of Orb-web, 163; 

 How orb-weaving spiders make the 

 frame-work or foundations of webs, 

 430. 



Martindale, Isaac C. Election as 

 member of Finance Committee, 14. 



Meehan, Thos. Note on treeless 

 praries, 11 ; Motility in plants, 89; 

 Sexual characters in Fritillaria 




536 



INDEX. 



atropurpurea, 111 ; Sarcodes san- 

 guinea, 160; Talinum teretifolium, 

 161; Notes on Misletoes, 430; 

 Dimorphism in the Willow 442, 

 Color in Autumn Leaves, 454; On 

 Movements and Paralysis in the 

 Leaves of Robinia, 456 ; Pilobolus 

 crystallinus, 463 ; Varying influ- 

 ence of heat on flower -buds and 

 leaf-buds, 466 : Report of Botanical 

 Section, 494. 



Morris, Henry. Announcement of 

 death of, 467. 



Museum, additions to, 506. 



Nolan, Edw. J. Report of Recording 

 Secretary, 485; Report of Librarian, 

 487. 



Officers for 1882, 505. 



Parker, Chas. F. Report of Curator 

 in Charge, 489. 



Perot, Chas. P. Election as Member 

 of Council, 14. 



Potts, E. Some new genera of fresh 

 water sponges, 149; A new form of 

 fresh-water sponge, 176 ; The genus 

 Carterella vs. Spongiophaga Potts, 

 460. 



Rand, Theo. D. Report of Mineralog- 

 ical Section, 497. 



Redfield, J. H. On Hieracium auran- 

 tiacum, 429; Note upon Plantago 

 elongata, 429; Report of Conserva- 

 tor of Botanical Section, 494. 



Report of the President, 472. 



Report of the Recording Secretary, 

 485. 



Report of the Corresponding Secre- 

 tary, 486. 



Report of the Librarian, 487. 



Report of the Curators, 489. 



Report of the Biological and Micro- 

 scopical Section, 490. 



Report of the Botanical Section, 494. 



Report of the Conchological Section, 

 491. 



Report of the Entomological Section, 

 496. 



Report of the Mineralogical Section, 

 497. 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate 

 Palaeontology, 498. 



Report of the Professor of Mineralogy, 

 499. 



Report of the Treasurer, 502. 



Ridings, J. H. Report of Entomologi- 

 cal Section, 496. 



Roberts, S. R. Report of Conchologi- 

 cal Section, 491. 



Rupchenberger, W. S. W. Report of 

 Committee on Resignation of, 465 ; 

 Report of President, 472. 



Ryder, J. A. On the structure, affin- 

 ities and species of Scolopendrella, 

 78, 79. 



Scott, Thos. A. Announcement of 

 death of. 111. 



Starr, Thos. W. Announcement of 

 death of, 87. 



Stearns, R. E. C. Observations on 

 Planorbis, 87, 92. 



Tryon, Geo. W, Jr. Report of Con- 

 servator of Conchological Section, 

 491. 



Wachsmuth, Chas. and F. Springer. 

 Revision of the Palfeocrinoidea, 

 Fart II, Family Sphseroidocrinidae, 

 including the subfamilies Platycrin- 

 idoe, RhodocrinidcE and Actinocrini- 

 d£e. 111, 177. 



Welsh, John, Jr. Announcement of 

 death of, 415. 



Whelen, Edw. S. Resignation of, as 

 Member of Council and Finance 

 Committee, 14. 



Wood, Dr. H. C. On the nature of the 

 diphtheritic contagium, 435. 




PROC. A. N, S, PHILA,, 1881 



PLXVII, 





PROG. A. N. S. PHILA., 1881. 



PL XVIII 





PROC. ACAD. NAT SCI PHILALA1881, 



PL.XX. 



f- 





1 



1L_USTRATED BY THE ZOOLOGICAL SOC I ETY, PH I LAD f 



CHAPMAN ON FOETAL KANGAROO 









mr 



PROCEEDINGS 



.^tdtlemg of ^Htittctl ^t\mt% 



i 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PART 1.—JANVABY—MAY, 1881. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



JosEPft Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vaxjx, Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Xolan. M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th and Race Streets. 



1881. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Ei^ht volumes of the New Series of the Jouknal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The {)rice per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subscribers; and to others, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $-1.75 per part. Vol. VII contain.s "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The FiKST Series of the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1856, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members ; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.76 per volume. 



The Third Series op the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which ten volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal op Conchologv, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illiistrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of theiu colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volume?, $10 each. 



3B003C.S X^Olt. S.A.XjSI. 



The AcAPEMY has the following works for sale at the prices aflSxed r 

 Description of Shells of North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.60. 

 Monograph of thk Unionid.e of North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uncolored 



].latcs, octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph op the Terrestrial Mollusca op the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 



Monograph of the Fresh Water TTnivalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species op Strepomatid^ (Melanians) op the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. AV. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil C©nchology of C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, .$5. 

 Synopsis of Gknus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edwaud J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, E. C. 

 May, 1881. 





coisrTE:NrTS. 



Leipy, Jos., M. D. Rliizopods as Food for Young Fishes. 9 



Meehan, Thos. Xote on Treeless Prairies. . . .11 



Arango, Rafael. Descriptions of new species of Terres- 

 trial Mollusca of Cuba. . . . . . .15 



McCooK, Rev. H. C. The Honey Ants of the Garden of 



the Gods. (Plates I-X.) IT 



Ryder, John A. The Structure, Affinities and Species of 



Scolopendrella. , , . . . . . .TO 



Hemphill, Henry. On the Variations of AcniJBa pelta, 



Esch 81 



Meehan, Thos. Motilit}' in Plants 89 



Stearns, R. E. C. Observations on Planorbis. ... 92 



Meehan, Thos. Sexual Characters in Fritellaria atropur- 



purea, Nutt . .111 



;il.OAm't ruiNTINO HC -SE 7S4 1 718 «»NSOM »T., PHILACELPHL 




i 





m 



-m 



PROCEEDTNGS 



^^cariemg of 5i«itttal $riettt^$ 



PHTLADKT.PHIA. 



PART I L— JUNE AXD JULY, 1HHU 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo. H. Horn, M, D., 



Wm. S. Vaux, Thomas Meehan, 



J. II. Redpibld. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Nolan. M. I). 



m 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Oor. of 19th ami Race Streets. 

 1881. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eio^ht voluiufs of the New Series of the Joubnal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The price per vohime of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subscribers; and to others, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $5.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Josei'h Leidv, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Seriks op the Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the jjublic, $48. 



The First Series op the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1866, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series op the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), ma.V be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which ten volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1880), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 18(55-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices afEx-edr 

 Description of Shells of North America, with t)8 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-3.4. $10.50. 

 Monograph op the.Unionid^ op North America. By T. A. Conrad. 60 uneolored 



])lates, octavo, 1840. $8. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. ■ Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, .$13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 



Monograph op the Fresh Water T^nivalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, .1840-44. With Continuatfon to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid.e (Melanians) of the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY op C. S. Rafinesque. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2,50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13. With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $6. 

 Synopsis op Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions to Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 30 per cent, on the prices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward . I. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, E. C. 



Nov., 1881. 





CONTE^NTTS. 



LociviNGTON, W. N. List of the Fishes collected b}' Mr."\\ 

 J. Fisher, upon the coasts of Lower California, 1876-71 

 with descriptions of New Species, ... 



Buckley, S. T>. Quercus Durandii. . , . . 



Buckley, S. B. Quercus rul)ra L., var Texana. 



Buckley, S. B. Rhus cotinoides Nutt. 



Chapman, Henry C, M. I). Observations upon the Hippo 

 potamus. (Plates XI-XVL) .... 



Potts, E. Some new Genera of Fresh-Water Sponges. 



Heilprin, Angelo. Notes on the Tertiary Geology of the 

 Southern United States. ..... 



Meehan, Thomas. Sarcodes sanguinea. 



Meeman, Thomas. Talinum teretifoliuin. . 



McCoOK, Rev. Henry C. The Snare of the Ray Spider 

 (Epeira radiosa), a new form of Orb-web. 



Potts, Edw. A new form of Fresh-water Sponge. 



Wachsmuth, Chas., and Frank Springer. Revision of the 

 Palseocrinoidea. Part IL . 



113 

 121 

 123 

 123 



12r, 



14:9 



151 

 KiO 

 IBl 



1(53 

 17G 



1(7 



724 U 781 SANSOM ST., I 




PROCEEDINGS 



^^tadmg 0f ^attttal ^timm 



PHILADELPHIA. 



PABT III.— AUGUST to DECE^IBEJR, 1881. 



PUBLICATION COMMITTEE. 



Joseph Leidy, M. D., Geo, H. Horn, M. D., 



Wm. S. Vatjx, Thomas Meehan, 



J. H. Redfield. 



EDITOR: Edward J. Xolan. M. D. 



PHILADELPHIA: 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES, 



S. W. Cor. of 19th and Race Streets. 

 1882. 




PUBLICATIONS OF THE 

 ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES 



OF PHILADELPHIA. 



Eight volumes of the New Series of the Jocrnal (Quarto) have been issued — 1847 to 

 1881. The price per volume of four parts is $10, or $3 per part, to subscribers; and toothers, 

 $12.50 per volume, or $3.75 per part. Vol. VII contains "The Extinct Mammalian Fauna 

 of Dakota and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of the Mammalian Remains of North America." 

 Illustrated with thirty plates. By Joseph Leidy, M.D., LL.D. 



The First Series of ihe Journal, 1817 to 1842, in eight volumes, octavo, may be 

 obtained at $40 to members, and to the public, $48. 



The First Series of the Proceedings of the Society, published in octavo, 1841 to 

 1866, of which eight volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1856, may be obtained at $24 to 

 members; and to the public, $30. 



The Second Series of the Proceedings, commencing January 1, 1857 (of which 

 fourteen volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1870), may be obtained at $42 to members, or $3 

 per volume separately ; and to the public, $3.75 per volume. 



The Third Series of the Proceedings, Illustrated, commencing January 1, 1871, 

 (of which eleven volumes were completed Dec. 31, 1881), is published at $5 per annum, payable 

 in advance, to subscribers ; single volumes, $6.25. 



American Journal of Conchology, 1865-71. Seven vols., 8vo. Containing 2500 

 pages, illustrated by one hundred and fifty plates, many of them colored, besides about a 

 thousand wood engravings. Published at $70. Price reduced to $42 for the set. Separate 

 volumes, $10 each. 



The Academy has the following works for sale at the prices aflBxed: 



Description op Shells op North America, with 68 colored plates. By Thomas Say. 



1830-34. $10.50. 

 Monograph of the Terrestrial Mollusca of the United States. With illustrations 



of all the species. By GrEO. W. Tryon, Jr. Fine edition, plate paper, with duplicate 



plates, colored and tinted, $20 ; colored edition, $13.50 ; plain edition, $8.50. Only 



one hundred copies printed, which have been mostly sold. 

 Monograph of the Fresh Water TTnivalve Mollusca of the United States. By S. S. 



Haldeman, 1840-44. With Continuation to 1871. By George W. Tryon, Jr. 2 



vols., with many colored plates. Fine edition, duplicate plates, $40 ; with colored 



plates, $25; with plain plates, $18. 



Either the original work or the continuation furnished separately, if desired. 

 Synonymy of the Species of Strepomatid^ (Melanians) op the United States. By 



Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 List of American Writers on Recent Conchology, with the Titles of their Memoirs 



and Dates of Publication. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. Cloth, $2; paper, $1.75. 

 Monograph of the Order Pholadacea and other Papers. By Geo. W. Tryon, Jr. 



Cloth, $2 ; paper, $1.75. 

 Complete Writings on Recent and Fossil CeNCHOLOGY op C. S. Rafinesqub. Edited 



by Wm. G. Binney and G. W. Tryon, Jr. $2.50. 

 Observations on the Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. 4to, Vols. 1 to 13, With 



Index, Nos. 1, 2 and 3, complete. Illustrated with several hundred fine lithographic 



plates. $60. 



Same, Vols. 2 to 13 inclusive, except Vols. 4 and 12. Each volume separately, $5. 

 Synopsis op Genus Unio. By Isaac Lea, LL. D. Fourth edition. $3. 

 Contributions TO Geology. By Isaac Lea. $5. 

 Fossil Foot-Marks. By Isaac Lea. Large folio, text and plate. $2. 



Same, plate alone. 50 cents. 



Notice to Booksellers. — All the publications of the Society will be sup- 

 plied to Booksellers at a discount of 20 per cent, on the jirices charged to the public. 



Application to be made to Edward J. Nolan, M.D., at the Hall of the 

 Academy, corner of Nineteenth and Race Streets. 



London, TRUBNER & CO., 



No. 57 and 59 Ludgate Hill, E. C. 



March, 1882. 





CONTETSJ^TS. 



Wachsmuth, Chas., and Frank Springer. Revision of the 



Palieocrinoidea. Part II. Conclusion. (Plates 17. 18 



and 19). ' . 



Heilprin, Angelo. a revision of the Cis-Mississippi Ter- 

 tiary Pectens of the United States, .... 

 Heilprin, Angelo. Remarks on the Mollusean Genera 



Hippagus, Verticordia and Pecchiolia, .... 

 Redfield, J. H. On Hieraeium aurantiacum. 

 Redfield, J. H. Note upon Plantago elongata, Pursh., 

 McCooK, Rev. H. C. How Orb-Weaving Spiders make the 



Framework or Foundations of Webs, .... 

 Wood, Dr. H. C. On the Nature of the Diphtheritic Con- 



tagium, . . . . . . . . . 



Meehan, Thos. Notes on Mistletoes, 



Meeiian, Thos. Dimorphism in a Willow, .... 

 Ryder, John A. Occurrence of the same species of Protozoa 



on both sides of the Atlantic, ..... 

 Heilprin, Angelo. Note on the approximate position of 



the Eocene deposits of Maryland, . . . . 



Heilprin, Angelo. A revision of the tertiary species of 



Area of the Eastern and Southern United States, 

 Meehan, Thos. Color in Autumn Leaves, 

 Meehan, Thos. On Movements and Paralysis in the Leaves 



of Robinia, ......... 



Potts, Edw. The Genus Carterella vs. Spongiophaga Pottsi, 

 Meehan, Thos. Pilobolus crystallinus, . . . . 



Report of Committee appointed to prepare an expression 



of the Academy's appreciation of Dr. Ruschenberger's 



services to the Society, . 

 Meehan, Thos. Varying Influence of Heat on Flower-buds 



and Leaf-buds, .... 

 Chapman, Dr. H. C. On a fojtal Kangaroo and its mem 



branes. (Plate 20), 



Report of the President, ...... 



Report of the Recording Secretary, .... 



Report of the Corresponding Secretary, ... 

 Report of the Librarian, ...... 



Report of the Curators, ...... 



Report of the Biological and Microscopical Section, . 

 Report of the Conchological Section, .... 



Report of the Botanical Section, .... 



Report of tlie Entomological Section, .... 



Report of the Mineralogical Section, .... 



Report of the Professor of Invertebrate Paleontology, 

 Report of the Professor of Mineralogy, 

 Report of the Treasurer. 



Officers for 1882, 



Elections during 1881. .... 

 Additions to the Museum, 

 Additions to the Librarj', 



305 



416 



423 

 429 

 429 



430 



435 

 439 

 442 



442 



444 



448 

 454 



456 

 460 

 463 



465 



466 



468 

 41-2 

 485 

 486 

 48t 

 489 

 490 

 491 

 494 

 496 

 49T 

 498 

 499 

 502 

 505 

 505 

 506 

 511 



I k Tit SANSOM ST., PHIL^DELPnlJ 






MBL/WHOI LIBRARY 



UH IfiRF E 





